https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/243360.Let_Us_Now_Praise_Famous_Men
(I have included a link below to her review and I encourage anyone who is interested in the book to read it.)The book became an overnight classic twenty-five years after Agee was given an assignment to write an article for Fortune magazine in 1936, which the magazine subsequently rejected and never published; twenty years after it was finally published as a book; and five years after its author succumbed to a heart attack in a New York taxi on his way to a doctor's appointment.Agee was just twenty-six, a poet in the guise of a journalist, when he was given the assignment to travel into the Deep South to do a story on cotton sharecroppers.
Very few books can knock me like Let Us Now Praise Famous Men. Originally commissioned as a report back to the Northern seaboard’s intellectua-lites on the state of Southern affairs, ‘reporter’ Agee did something no one saw coming (including himself): he fell in love.
Agee bares his fucking soul—wondrous and repulsive, as are all—in some of the best pure writing I’ve ever the pleasure.
Let us now praise James Agee, dead at 45.
One can only assume that his heart swelled past bursting and exploded over his beloved Alabamian nightscapes as a starburst so marvelous as to be oft mistaken for Venus to this day.
There is much about this book that borders on genius, but far more that obscures.
Agee tries so hard to get to The Truth that he ends up with a lot of contextual melodrama.
As a result, the book is not so much the story of three tenant farming families so much as it is Agee's opinion of how the families came to be and the circumstances surrounding them as reflected in every threadbare quilt, dirty chicken, and abandoned tin cup in their vicinity.
These descriptions are never given with cold detachment, but rather with an obsessive regard that borders frequently on almost erotic indulgence.
She taught me the meaning of dignity and the power inherent in having a good and pure soul; she taught me how to properly watch a thunderstorm, which is to say, quietly and with respect.When I read this book for the first time, in my first year of college in Philadelphia, I was desperately homesick for Nannie, and this book reminded me of her.
But I think having read this book a couple of times has given me the heart to see it, and the ache to do something about it.
He has an obsessive streak for description, he grabs your hand and wants you to feel everything, to get the smell ingrained in you, to look in their tired eyes and see their quiet dignity.Evans has an equally astonishing photoset in the very beginning, but Agee's descriptions make them LIVE, and the descriptions and life and humanity within them unfold.Agee scorns the label of their work as Art. Very well then, let us call it Life.
"Let us now praise famous men, and our fathers that begat us.
Reading this book is like hanging on to the back of someone on roller skates racing top-speed down a steep hill, with no brakes.
There are few books that explore with such rigor the impossibility -- and necessary ideal -- of perfect perspective, or have the audacity to admit melancholy as an action (albeit an insufficent one), not just a solipsistic response to the aesthetic sufferings of others.
The maddening ambivalence of this book, and its self-consuming doubt and belief in what it is doing, underscores the headlong, megalomanical under-confidence of the (whether you like it or not) inimitable prose.
Well I managed to finish this just to say I'd read this so called classic,but the whole thing just annoyed the hell out of me.
Unless wonder is nothing in itself,but only a moon which glows only in the mercy of a sense of wonder, and unless the sense of wonder is peculiar to consciousness and is moreover an emotion which, as it matures, consciousness will learn the juvenility of,and discard, or only gratefully refresh itself under the power of as under the power of sleep and the healing vitality of dreams,and all this seems a little more likely than not, the materials which people any intersection of time and place are at all times marvellous, regardless of consciousness........"WHAT????????Good Grief.
He shares intricate details of his eye's view of their homes, their land, their features, their mannerisms.
There were times I was sick and tired of listening to Agee's endless diatribes, opinions and strange allegories.
But Agee's gift in the details is that he enhances these images with his words to the point of almost being able to crawl into them comfortably.In the end, the reader is rewarded for their diligence and stubborn attitude with beautiful moments of writing.
You don't leave this book feeling pity.
You leave feeling thankful for the moments he shared.
I wanted to gouge my eyes out many, many times. I can't believe I even gave it 2 stars. Yes, it is a super famous book and has gotten all kinds of acclaim over the past 70 years or so. But James Agee drives me nuts. His writing style gave me a migraine. I did, however, keep the book and may attempt it again one day in the very distant future, once I have forgotten how much it bothered me the first go-round.
It took me forever to get around to reading this, but boy, am I glad I did. It's a moving and incredibly heartfelt look at the suffering of the poor during the Depression (and a rather effective defense of FDR's reaction to it), and one of the most deft blends of fiction and journalism I've ever read.
What?What is this?What is this?Why is it so beautiful?And then dull?And then arrogant? And then the most humble thing a Harvard kid has ever written? Why do I want to make every ethnographer I know read it? Even though it aggravates me?
The large middle of the book is filled with Agee's OCD documenting of the ephemera of the families - the the point of reproducing fragments of text from scraps of newspaper that he finds in a drawer.
(If you choose to read the book, go to the Library of Congress website to get a larger set of Evans' photos, labeled with the names of the subjects.) Even when he presents information, he doesn't provide context.
The book also lacks organization, skipping around in focus, which is frustrating.
Difficile commentare un testo che non è *solo* un testo letterario, che non vorrebbe descrivere e narrare per il gusto del farlo, ma per riportare la Bellezza della Vita sulla pagina.
Difficile non ritornare sempre alle immagini di Evans dell'inizio, per ritrovare in quegli sguardi i nomi, in quelle case le stanze, in quegli occhi l'Alabama del caldo e della miseria.
Il libro di Agee ed Evans attende, tra i remainders, occhi e umanità per ritornare a vivere della stessa illuminazione che ha colto due spie, che agendo *nello* scorrere del tempo hanno creato un'opera che rimane al di sopra di esso.
(And at times funny in ways I'm pretty sure Agee didn't mean it to be.) James Agee was 27 when he wrote it.
It also takes a while to get used to the list-like descriptions, which also take up whole chapters.When you are reading it, it's like swimming a deep, hard-running river.
You aren't sure where you are, if you will make it through and if you have the strength.
When you finish, you can't believe what a beautiful and amazing river you have just swum across.
Walker Evans begins the book with a few dozen photos, most of which are mediocre at best, a handful of which are among the best photos ever taken.
Agee's text, too, is a mixed bag, although the avalanche of dross so completely mires the gems that I found myself flipping through ten pages at a time, looking for a paragraph worth reading.
Agee goes through convulsions of angst, trying to find some way to tell us about the lives of 3 poor tenant farmers' families without being condescending or romantic.
Inside this monstrous book is a brilliant magazine story crying for release: 10 great photos, 20 graceful pages of reporting.
I know this book is critically acclaimed.
The book is about a trip James Agee (Harvard-educated journalist for Forbes at the time) and Walker Evans (photographer) take to backwoods Alabama to see what the lives of sharecroppers are like.
Agee does an amazing job at describing the families he meets with.
What frustrates me is Agee's frequent self-serving rants about his own awkward feelings toward the sharecroppers.
And there's just too many of them for me to say this book was great.
Yes, it's an important book with some good writing.
But that doesn't make me overlook Agee's frequent navel-gazing.
This info describes the OC Library copy which I'm reading:Cover: mud gray green with the title left margin reconciled like so:LetUsNowPraiseFamous Menwith black lettering except the word Praise which is white -- authors name lower right above Photograpsher Walker Evans nameHardcover; 471 ppCopyrights 1939, 1940 James Agee; 1941 James Agee and Walker Evans; 1969 Walker Evans. Third Printing Riverside Press Cambridge Massachusetts USA
Their possessions, clothes, their speech, education, daily activities, etc., all exhaustively detailed.What makes this book timeless, though, is the prose.
Agee clearly felt deeply and passionately about his subjects and had the literary firepower to etch them into history.Maybe a little too much firepower.
I sometimes felt that the prose was overly flowery and earnest given the subject matter.
The cloth, by use and washing, is of a heavy and delicious look: as if pure cream were pressed into a fabric an eighth of an inch thick, and were cut and sewn into a garment." Overkill, no?I also had to dock the book one star for the intermittent leching on the girls and women.
Agee infuses this respect and admiration into his writing of the book, and seeks to do these people justice by writing about their situation as honestly and accurately as possible.The book straddles many different genres, and the end product can be described as a poetic take on ethnography.
But a successful prose-poem does not make a successful ethnography, and ultimately, as such, the book is a failure.Seeking to truly understand and render for his audience the experience and character of these three families, Agee is faced with the ethnographer's dilemma of trying to see and present the subject free of the preconceptions and biases of the observer.
Walker Evans, in the 1960 preface, spoke of night as Agee's time, and so he advises to read Famous Men at night.
I second his suggestion.My expectations for this work weren't especially high, but it turns out that Agee and Evans' book is one of the most powerful reading experiences of my life.
We must learn how to challenge ourselves to look into the lives of every human being and interact with all in such a way that honors their dignity and inherent beauty.This book has already changed my life.
This book is the musings of James Agee about a short period of time he spend wandering Alabama and living with three tenant families there.
I must say that I had a difficult time getting through this book.
Nevertheless this book was written with a militant love for the tenant farmers described.
Agee sees the good of the world in them, but does not wish to saint them in any way...
You'll need some time and some good strong coffee...
it's best not to read when tired, but it is a strong book and good in different ways then novels are good.
I absolutely loathe his book.A 92 page (or some ridiculous number like that) description of a wooden shack.This is a perfect example of experimental style over substance, and it's basically unreadable. The only redeeming quality is Walker Evans's astounding photography. Never attempt to read this book.
If this book review were to become so long that I would need chapter- and sub-headings, and if my chapter- and sub-headings turned out to be things like “(On the Porch: 1,” “Colon,” and “Intermission: Conversation in the Lobby,” and if I were to set some of them—but not others—off with left parentheses, and punctuate some—again, not others—with colons tending towards nothing but a thereafter empty page, you would think (aside from “Wow, this review is horribly and strangely long”) that I’d completely lost touch with any audience I ever had, right?That is what it is like to read James Agee’s Let Us Now Praise Famous Men. Agee and Walker Evans (yes, that Walker Evans of Depression-era photographic fame) were sent, in 1936, by Fortune magazine to investigate the lives of white tenant farmers in the Deep South.
It's all fives or threes, the occasional two.
4-stars is a reduction, an average.
Agee is either describing the world and its people with the poetic exactitude and finesse of Whitman, or he is pontificating in philosophical digressions that feel both dated and overwrought.
In light of how much I detest the later, the 4-star rating is a testament to the former.
In short, it's worth it (maybe just use this as as rule: if you are getting bored, just skip a few pages and you will find yourself again in a scene of sparse beauty and fiercely loyal narrative).
I'm so conflicted about this book...
on the one hand, I am here for a very post-modern take on a journalistic story.
The writing style is poetic, to be sure, and I can see why people love this book.
That being said, I just have misgivings over the author making this so much about him.
but I'm just not that into that project.
I also found the style to be somewhat alienating for non-fiction.
I'd be interested to see what this voice is like in fiction, so I still am curious to try A Death in the Family
Beginning on page 123, there’s a forty-seven-page description of a wooden shack. After finishing this section, I was shocked to discover that Agee was about to describe two more wooden shacks.
Not really what I was expecting - a portrait of three sharecropper families during the depression. It was more a practice in descriptive writing (there were entire chapters on what bedrooms looked like). It's a great display of Agee's writing, but I'd prefer his fiction.
My rating: 4.25 starsLong after I have forgotten how I spent my days scrolling through Facebook and Instagram, I will remember this book.
Meanness and anger and sadness in its wake.
A treatise on art, on poverty, on life – this book will shake you to your core.
And maybe the ultimate sadness, the pity I cannot see beyond, is that the words being used to savage human beings, robbing people of their dignity simply because they are poor, words being used more than 80 years ago, are the very same ones being used today.
But other passages struck a chord—describing the bed—“It is unmade and is flung over with a wrecked quilt nearly dead-gray with dirt, the dark, crudded cotton leaking from its wounds.”“Near the corner opposite the table is a large, very old, nearly unmanageable, and almost inconceivably foul stove, stacked with unwashed pans; and next this is a broken table whose unpainted wood surface is coal black and on which the biscuit dough is made.”“They live in a steady shame and insult of discomforts, insecurities, and inferiorities, piecing these together into whatever semblance of comfortable living they can, and the whole of it is a stark nakedness of makeshifts and the lack of means: yet they are also, of course, profoundly anesthetized.”He spends literally pages describing their scant, primitive clothing—corn-shuck hats, fertilizer sack dresses—with exhaustive detail—one ‘dress’ was “held together with a snarl of shoelace.”Agee says, “The Beethoven piano concerto #4 IS importantly, among other things, a ‘blind’ work of ‘nature,’ of the world and of the human race; and the partition wall of the Gudgers’ front bedroom IS importantly, among other things, a great tragic poem.” I have pondered this passage more than any other.
James Agee and Walker Evans' book of lyrical prose and hard-edged images was one of three books I brought with me when I moved to NYC in 1974, and one of a short list that had a major influence on me as a young writer back then.
This was the first book I'd encountered that looked and felt deeply about a group of people largely ignored by the rest of the country, and it directly influenced my own several-year project photographing and interviewing the people I encountered living or working the streets of Manhattan and Brooklyn.
I have yet to encounter anything that quite matches its powerful synergy of prose and photographs.
