https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/10592.Carrie
How much guts would that take, to be like, "I'm this guy and I'm going to write this completely balls-out preposterous scene of what I imagine it could be like inside a high school girls' locker room, even though I obviously have NO IDEA.
So yeah, but I'm gonna write this scene anyway, gushing blood and mean naked high school girls and it's going to be COMPETELY @#*%ing CRAZY." And he did.
This novel was insane and fearless and obviously written by someone who had this story in him that needed to gush out like Carrie's menstrual blood and crazy telekinetic angst.
I have decided to go back and reread all the Stephen King books as audiobooks this time. Ones I have read recently or that I have already reread I may not do. I am starting at the very beginning with Carrie which I originally read on Kindle in 2014.You might be saying, ”But, Matthew, that was his first book! You didn’t read it for the first time until 2014!?” There are a couple of reasons for that:1. Carrie is referenced a lot in pop culture. Growing up in the 80s and 90s you really didn’t need
Growing up in the 80s and 90s you really didn’t need to read Carrie to know the story.2.
It’s amazing to think the same guy that started with short stories and short novels ended up writing books like The Stand and It!One thing that I think people who do not read King but who only know him as the master of horror through movies and hearsay are missing a lot.
Carrie is not usually a book I recommend to people wanting to try King for the first time.
No. This novel is a beautiful piece of art, that's all.Vote: 8,5«Notizia di cronaca riportata dal settimanale Enterprise di Westover (Maine) il 19 agosto 1966:PIOGGIA DI PIETRE.Ci viene riferito che una pioggia di pietre è caduta da un cielo perfettamente sereno su Carlin Street, nella città di Chamberlain, il 17 agosto.
E questo non perché dotata di poteri telecinetici, ma perché si ritrova per madre una persona che a volerla definire fanatica per il suo modo di interpretare la religione cattolica significa farle un complimento.
Il bellissimo paradosso di questo romanzo è che per gli altri ragazzi la stranezza di Carrie non sta nella telecinesi.
Everybody is invited to the Prom Dance!  THAT ENDING THAT YOU'RE EXPECTING... It's very interesting to read Carrie finally. I have watched the Brian de Palma's adaptation, so I wasn't unfamiliar with what would happen.However, the way as Stephen King wrote this book was in such great way that the novel is still engaging not matter if you already know the main highlights.There are some books that if you knew what will happen...kaput! All the fun was spoiled and you won't get interested on readin
I have watched the Brian de Palma's adaptation, so I wasn't unfamiliar with what would happen.However, the way as Stephen King wrote this book was in such great way that the novel is still engaging not matter if you already know the main highlights.There are some books that if you knew what will happen...kaput!
He wasn't able to know then that the book will became a success and a staple book in the horror genre, however thinking that that will happen, it is clever not waiting long in the narrative to give the main highlights.Since if before, you still have to get spoiled of key events in stories,......nowadays with internet, social networks, online news, chatting forums, etc...
“People don't get better, they just get smarter. When you get smarter you don't stop pulling the wings off flies, you just think of better reasons for doing it.” This is pizza, the freaky flavor.I loved how intertwined with religion it was. Not churches and stuff like that. I mean hardcore stuff about the point where religion stops being religion and transforms into fanaticism and how a person can drive themselves crazy with it, especially if you already have the tendency towards the crazy. And
Every time, Carrie commits a sin, she’s forced by Margaret to get locked inside a closet until she’s repented for her sins by asking for forgiveness.If you’ve seen the movie – or better yet, the movies – then you’re all too familiar with the plot and what happens.
What’s worth the mention though, it’s the fact that while, I, too, was familiar with the plot I felt like reading something new, something I’d never heard or seen before and that’s the magic of Mr. King’s writing.
Δεύτερο βιβλίο του King που διαβάζω, και καταλαβαίνω πια, ότι το επίθετό του καθρεπτίζει απόλυτα το συγγραφικό του ταλέντο.
Η σκιαγράφηση των χαρακτήρων, ο τρόπος σκέψης τους, τα μοτίβα τους, ο εύθραυστος και συνάμα δυνατός κόσμος της Κάρυ ήταν μερικά από τα δυνατά σημεία του βιβλίου.
Όλα αυτά τα αποσπάσματα από τις καταθέσεις μαρτύρων, τα βιβλία και τα άρθρα για την περίπτωση των γεγονότων που περιγράφονται, έδωσαν μια τελείως σουρεαλιστική αίσθηση.
Μέσα από την ιστορία του πέρασε ότι όσο διαφορετικός και να φαίνεται ο άνθρωπος, στη πραγματικότητα δεν διαφέρει πολύ.
Ο κάθε διαφορετικός άνθρωπος δεν παύει να έχει τις ίδιες επιθυμίες, τα ίδια συναισθήματα, μια εύθραυστη ψυχολογία και ψυχή.
“Jesus watches from the wall,But his face is cold as stone,And if he loves meAs she tells meWhy do I feel so all alone?”  I remember watching the movie when I was very little, I was pretty much petrified by it. The image of a poor girl covered in pig blood, going on a killing spree haunted me, and here I am today reading it for the first time awfully distraught and yet incredibly mesmerized by King's writing. No wonder he is where he is today. A true genius!
When a popular girl's boyfriend invites her to prom as atonement, she accepts, completely unaware of the horrors lurking on the horizon...Carrie is Stephen King's first novel and has been part of our cultural landscape since it was made into a movie in the late 1970s.
I knew (or thought I knew) most of the wrinkles of the plot going in, due to sai King's On Writing: A Memoir of the Craft and numerous cultural references over the years.Carrie is told using an interesting structure, alternating passages from Carrie's timeline as it unfolds and excepts from accounts of what happened at the prom in the far future.
من الصعب أن تحب 'كــاري' حقا بل ربما تعاطفك معها ربما لا يأتي إلا متاخراربما كان ستيفين كينج محقا عندما شعر ذلك بكتابته المشهد الأول الذي بنيت الأحداث عليهربما شعرت بمزيج من الحزن علي مثل تلك الشخصية...الشفقة الممزوجة بشئ من التقززلكن صفحة تلو الاخري بمنتصف الأحداث لابد وأن يلين قلبكعندما تتعرف عليها اكثرتتعرف علي 'كــاري'..الفتاةعندما تدرك انها مثل اي فتاة..فقط قتلت امها طفولتها وانوثتها بتزمتها الدينيعندما تدرك أنها فتاة قلبها مازال نقيا رغم الكراهية والمقت الذي يبثه لها كل هؤلاءهي فتاة فحسب تريد ان يتم تقبلها بشكل طبيعييتم تقبلها بشكل عادي بحق اللههي فقط فتاة تشعر بأنها وحيدةهي فقط فتاة فحسب(أوه ماما، انا خائفة ماما )بل، وبعد كل شىء بذروة الأحداث إن لم تتأثر ولو بشكل طفيف وأنت تقرأ مشاعرها بالنهاية...صرختها وهي تنادي أمها بعد كل هذا...فأعتقد انك لم تمنح الرواية قراءة جيدةلقد أثر المشهد هذا بي بشدة لدرجة الدمع...إنها مجرد فتاة...تنادي أمها(أووه ماما انا اسفة ماما أين)أما امها فهي شخصية أثيرة بروايات ستيفين كينجمارجريت وايتالمتعصبة دينيا بهوس شديد...التي تري ان المرأة عارا والدماء هي عقاب الرب للأنثيمن تتخذ من الدين وسيلة ترهيب وقتل الحياة بدلا من تنميتهاتماما كشيوخ الظلام وكهنتهأما الفتيات...فبين مشاعر المراهقة المتمردة المتنمرة المغرورة ككرستين...وبين الفتاة العادية التي رغم عيوبها مازال لها ضميرا يقظا كسوزي سنيل...
Carrie may be one of King’s less thick books but right from the scandalous opening scene to the very last page, it’s a relentlessly harrowing read.King pieces together Carrie's story through a series of reports and articles concerning a telekinetic catastrophe in Maine.
I knew how terrible the end would be before it even happened, so reading the book was an excruciating experience - the dread just kept building page after page, I could see what everything was leading to, I knew how easily avoidable it was, but there was nothing I could do except watch the dominoes fall one after the other.And once the horror of it wore off, the tragedy of it sunk in.
Much of the book uses newspaper clippings, magazine articles, letters, and excerpts from books to tell how Carrie destroyed the fictional town of Chamberlain, Maine while exacting revenge on her sadistic classmates and her own mother Margaret.تاریخ نخستین خوانش: روز بیست و هشتم ماه ژانویه سال 2014 میلادیعنوان: کری؛ نویسنده: استیون کینگ؛ مترجم: بهاره ملازم؛ تهران، افراز، 1390؛ ئدر 280 ص؛ شابک: 9789642435821؛ موضوع: داستانهای ترسناک از نویسندگان امریکایی - سده 20 مداستان بلوغ و قدرت‌های فرابشری «کری وایت» است، کری وایت، دختر خجالتی و کمروی مدرسه، به شدت از سوی دوستانش مورد تمسخر قرار میگیرد.

My brain is a torment of RAGE with which I wish to rain vengeance down upon the later half of this book!
The story moved at a good pace and the writing - though not moving - was adequate.
Then the climatic scene happened soon after the halfway mark.
The climax happened in the middle…the middle!"An odd place for a climatic scene," I remember thinking.
What happened?
Why did the story drag on after it was essentially over?
In the end, this is a 2 star book that gets 3 for the interesting story and the strong start.
Was Carrie White a literary active shooter?Let’s break it down: from an abusive, negligent home life with dark theological and religious hobgoblins; she is picked on and teased at school, relentlessly, by other girls and the bullying is allowed (somewhat) by the school administration.
Before Columbine, before all the sad, sad CNN breaking news reports since, King showed us what could happen when the bullied, terrorized, terrifying, disenfranchised, chased up a tree and backed into a corner fat kid, picked last for the game and been on the receiving end of a laughing, pointing finger can do if she thinks about it too hard.
For some reason, and after numerous recommendations, I started The Dark Tower series and I wasn't even that impressed with the first book, The Gunslinger.
Instant fan here...erm...after three books.Thereafter my collection of King books has slowly been increasing starting with The Dark Tower series (of course) and moving on to others (I think I'm at around 25 or so).
Every single one has been great and that also explains my current read (rereading the one I hated and enjoying it more than most other books).So we're talking about Carrie here right?
This is his first full-length publication.Ultimately, Carrie is both the namesake, protagonist and antagonist of this story.
And despite the many sides to her disturbed character she is also one the reader can not help but side with.My edition begun with an author's note that told of another bullied girl, much like Carrie.
This girl he once knew took her own life and this tale serves the partial purpose of rewriting her story, and that of so many others.
He gives them a way to realise their potential, through Carrie's character.
This also serves as a reminder for how common Carrie's story is.
(Si, como en Stranger Things :D)La lucha de Carrie por ser aceptada es lo mas considerable de esta novela, con un tema que es ahora más vigente que nunca, nos muestra que no es nada nuevo, todos hemos experimentado este tipo de acoso escolar de algún modo, luego SK en Rabia (1977) sigue jugando con este tema, pero ya es para otra reseña.La relación que tiene con su madre es sumamente disfuncional, su madre pretende controlar cada aspecto de su vida desde un punto de vista religioso, inclusive la menstruación de Carrie lo ve como algo pecaminoso, lo cual es bastante extremista.
I highly recommend reading his books this way for any true King fan, because in so many ways they build upon each other, and there are several recurrent characters and themes.
To give the story the feel of credibility (and to fill in any missing pieces), King chose to fill the book with newspaper clippings about the events, A college paper (By Sue Snell...one of the most decent human beings within the pages), and interviews with people who had witnessed Carrie's telekinetic powers, etc.
No big deal, except reading an adult man describing teenagers bodies was perhaps one of the most disturbing things (for me) in the whole book....
Carrie es un libro corto pero grandioso. Te atrapa desde la primera página. Es ya considerado un clásico de la literatura del terror, y con buenos fundamentos. Tiene escenas que dejan una cicatriz en nuestra memoria.  Jesús mira desde las paredes.Pero su rostro es frío como una piedra.Y si el me ama como ella dice. ¿Por qué me siento tan sola?  Amo a Carrie. Es un personaje con el cual me encariñé muchísimo. Es uno de mis favoritos. Muchos la odian, yo la adoro. En la práctica, nadie se entera n
Carrie es un libro corto pero grandioso.
Tiene escenas que dejan una cicatriz en nuestra memoria.
Jesús mira desde las paredes.Pero su rostro es frío como una piedra.Y si el me ama como ella dice.
En la práctica, nadie se entera nunca de que sus actos hieren realmente a otras personas.
Y cuando uno es más listo, no deja de arrancar las alas a las moscas, lo que ocurre es que, en ese momento, busca mejores razones para hacerlo.La novela no decae nunca, en mi opinión.
Tiene un ritmo rápido y la forma estilo documental de contar la historia me gustó mucho, también.
Tiene un buen final.
A pesar de conocer la historia por las películas, debo decir que el libro me enganchó desde el principio y me ha impactado más de lo que pensaba.
Obviamente, las películas se alejan bastante del libro en muchos sentidos, por lo que os sorprenderá en muchos aspectos.
Sufrir bullying en el colegio (algo que el autor trata de maravilla), estaba haciendo que Carrie sufriera más y lo que eso acabó conllevando, la gran desgracia final del libro.
En este libro hay un gran dilema, ¿quién es malo y bueno en esta historia?
This was really good and scary - just what I was hoping for.
The pacing of the book was just right because of the various accounts and perspectives we get on the “black prom” and what exactly happened, and the scary scenes WERE scary.
Carrie is fragile after years of meanness and bullying, and what happens at prom night pushes her over the edge.
The focus on the prom night was a bit too long in my opinion, but other than that this was so creepy and electrifying (pun intended!), and now I’m very much inclined to rewatch the movie and compare it to the book.
This book was interesting in that it presented facts on scientific phenomena called Psychokinesis, Something I have had personal experience with and I’ll tell you about it at the end of this review as long as you all promise not to call me a freak…..but think that I’m a freak all you want.Carrie didn’t have it easy in high school.
I didn’t like it and would pester her to stop regularly (boy, did she love that).
She was pacing back and forth in her upstairs bedroom tearing the room apart, all the time yelling at me to tell her what I did with them.
(It is prom season after all!)I still love this style of story-telling which includes snippets from newspaper articles, different (fictional) books and journals, and several eye-witness accounts.
That may be a crazy thought, but having just re-read RAGE last month, (not to mention seeing the daily news here in America), I think it's natural for such a thing to cross my mind.
Lastly, reading this book while also reading King's latest, THE OUTSIDER, presented the chance for comparison.
King was lean and mean in writing Carrie, in fact, I wished for more.
It was a bit different than I remembered.I think I took a lot more away from it this time than I did the first.
Primer libro que leo de este señor! Ueeee! Ya era hora!Pues bien, me ha gustado aunque tampoco emocionado. Había visto la mítica peli de los 70 hace mil años así que la trama no me sorprendió mucho pero me encantó el formato que entremezcla retazos de entrevistas, novelas y puntos de vistas de diferentes personajes. Lo mejor, que habla muy claramente sobre el acoso escolar pero aún me gustó más esa reflexión sobre la necesidad obsesiva que tenemos los humanos de pertenecer a un círculo social especialmente en la adolescencia....
Γράφεις ένα τέτοιο βιβλίο στα είκοσι επτά σου μόλις χρόνια και μια ευτυχής συγκυρία το φέρνει στην πόρτα του (σπουδαίου) Brian De Palma, ο οποίος δεν το σκέπτεται και πολύ και (στα τριάντα δύο του αυτός) σκηνοθετεί μια ταινία που έμελλε να γίνει τεράστια εμπορική επιτυχία, να προταθεί για δύο υποψηφιότητες όσκαρ (α και β γυναικείου ρόλου) και να συστήσει στο ευρύ κοινό τον καινοτόμο αυτόν σκηνοθέτη (μαζί και την τεχνική του split screen). Απολαμβάνεις τη δημοσιότητα, η οποία, όπως συνήθως συμβαί
Γράφεις ένα τέτοιο βιβλίο στα είκοσι επτά σου μόλις χρόνια και μια ευτυχής συγκυρία το φέρνει στην πόρτα του (σπουδαίου) Brian De Palma, ο οποίος δεν το σκέπτεται και πολύ και (στα τριάντα δύο του αυτός) σκηνοθετεί μια ταινία που έμελλε να γίνει τεράστια εμπορική επιτυχία, να προταθεί για δύο υποψηφιότητες όσκαρ (α΄ και β΄ γυναικείου ρόλου) και να συστήσει στο ευρύ κοινό τον καινοτόμο αυτόν σκηνοθέτη (μαζί και την τεχνική του split screen).
Λιτότητα στις περιγραφές, η συνήθης φλυαρία του Stephen King δεν έχει κάνει ακόμη αισθητή την παρουσία της (μιλάμε για το πρώτο βιβλίο του, εξάλλου, ίσως γι’ αυτό!), εντυπωσιακό χτίσιμο μιας ατμόσφαιρας ζόφου που κορυφώνεται τη νύχτα του χορού των αποφοίτων του Γυμνασίου Τόμας Γιούεν, και Αίμα.
Jumpy read! riveting,good narrative and hauntingly good storyline with also incredible writing (paperback!)
I’ve read other novels by King, but wanted to start at the beginning and make my way from there, that way I have a list to follow.
You can’t help but feel so bad for Carrie the entire book.
And that’s what makes King an amazing writer, he makes the reader think beyond what’s between the pages.The writing style and I didn’t click very well, by that I mean the random plug ins of studies and books about what happened, instead of letting the story flow.
What fast and captivating read. I was a little skeptical about what horrors might come up in a King novel because I had never read anything by him, but it was fine. Defintely intense but absolutely manageable. A really good book and I'm glad it was my first King
Her luck seems to be turning around, however, when a boy asks her to the prom, but as this is a popular story, I’m sure most people already know that there unfortunately is no happy ending.
Even though these things supplemented the story well, it became a lot less effective when they kept being thrown in there every couple pages by people who I either didn’t care to hear from or heard way too much from already.This was my first Stephen King book, and it won’t be my last.
I think part of what makes this book so amazing is that even though it is a horror book - it stems from something very basic and very real to so many people.
The need to be loved.
Sadly - as is so often the case in real life as well - these things are held out of reach for Carrie.
So really the cruelest thing you could do is to offer her a chance at this world and then snatch it away from her.
And all the more so because we KNOW how cruel kids in school are.
