https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6220.The_Wreath
نعم يا سادة، بعض الناس تحب بهذه الطريقة المريضة، يعذبونك و يحاسبونك لأنهم أحبوك، حتى لتود أن يكرهوك قليلا فلربما ذلك يجعلهم يعاملوك بطريقة أفضل...0إرلند رغم شجاعته و نبالته و فروسيته إلا أنه رجل طائش طفولي لا مبال، قد تسبب بسخط الملك عليه و تجريده من رتبته و مصادرة كل ثروته...
و لكن الأسلوب أيضا كان ناضجا و متقنا في تحليل الشخصيات و تناقضاتها...0الرواية تستحق القراءة، على أي حال كنت و أي ذائقة امتلكت، فأنا التي لا أميل كثيرا للروايات الواقعية الاجتماعية و لا التي يكثر فيها الوصف بإسهاب، و لو أني كرهت كلا من كريستين و زوجها إرلند و تمنيت ضربهما على رأسهما حتى يتوقفا عن طفوليتهما، إلا أني استمتعت بها كثيرا...
Kransen = The Wreath (Kristin Lavransdatter #1), Sigrid UndsetKristin Lavransdatter is a trilogy of historical novels written by Nobel laureate Sigrid Undset.
The individual novels are Kransen (The Wreath), first published in 1920, Husfrue (The Wife), published in 1921, and Korset (The Cross), published in 1922.
Kristin Lavransdatter is the daughter of Lavrans, a charismatic, respected nobleman in a rural area of Norway, and his wife Ragnfrid, who suffers from depression after the loss of three infant sons and the crippling of her younger daughter Ulvhild in an accident.
Raised in a loving and devoutly religious family, Kristin develops a sensitive but wilful character, defying her family in small and large ways.
Its characters should be more than contemporary people in period dress-up, and very few historical works I've ever read puts you into the mindset and immerses you into the surroundings of another age better than the The Wreath.
It's amazing to me because from a modern view I suppose I should feel more sympathetic to how she acts in the name of love, but Undset makes you fully feel how foolish and hurtful is Kristin's behavior so much of the time; this is a willful young woman very much ruled by her passions.
The central character is Kristin Lavransdatter who we first meet as a young girl spending a good deal of time with her father on visits to various parts of their large estate farm in eastern Norway.
Through the father-daughter interactions we, the readers, get an introduction to rural life, farming, social customs and religious beliefs of early 14th century Norway.
We also fall in love with the sweet innocent girl that Kristin is at that point in the story.Later, when Kristin has been engaged to a local notable man, quite a few years her senior, she is unsure about the marriage.
It’s apparently been said that Kristin was the first real woman in literature, and while I wouldn’t discount all 19th-century heroines so quickly, she’s certainly a realistic and nuanced character, nothing like the insipid protagonists that define so much of today’s historical fiction.Meanwhile, the book has an engaging plot, with more drama than I expected, and its medieval world is detailed and three-dimensional, incorporating a great deal of information about the lifestyle, religion and history of the times.
Sigrid Undset's The Wreath is the first volume in a trilogy entitled Kristin Lavransdatter set in 14th century Norway.
Also, whereas Simon Darre's estate would enrich Kristin's family, Erlend is by no means such a good manager of a farm estate.Undset wrote about her ability to put herself in the mindset of the Middle Ages:If you peel away the layer of ideas and conceptions that are particular to your own time period, then you can step right into the Middle Ages and see life from the medieval point of view -- and it will coincide with your own view.
I intend this year to read the other two novels in the trilogy, The Wife and The Cross, which continue the story of Kristin Lavransdatter to the end.
Yet, through Undset's clean and sparing style, the world of Kristin Lavransdatter, her village, her friendships and loves, all come to life with such vividness, that you will find yourself reaching for the book constantly, wanting to know what will happen next.
Remarkably, even though I am a twenty first century woman, and strongly believe in people's autonomy and free will, Undset seamlessly set me in the mores of the times, so that I found myself outraged at Kristin's behaviour sometimes, and sat in judgement of the man of her choice.
To be honest I'd never really heard of the famous Kristin Lavransdatter trilogy until a few years ago, a reflection on the shocking lack of attention I pay to most great European classics that aren't British.
This is first of the three and deals with the strong headed and stubborn as you like Kristin deciding to choose the 'bad boy' rather than the sensible but unexciting 'good boy' favoured by her father.
Clever thinking Kirstin!
I mean she is young and all but still, for such a clever girl she really acts like a complete moron...As this is a trilogy the story doesn't end with a 'and they lived happily ever after' but more with a 'to be continued' feel.
Ah, Middle Ages, times of patriarchy and mother church blooming, when woman's obedience and objectification of females was a norm.
Times, when Christian Grey would get a permanent boner.Sarcasm aside, I really liked this book.
Undset's style is calm but passionate at same time, she portrays life and emotions of people so well.
She was not afraid to give Kristin some feminist thinking (not that much, but for Undset's times I'm sure it was progressive).Too many "god this, god that" for my tastes, but I guess it was inevitable in the novel about Middle Ages.
And I'm going to read next books too.
The daily life of a farmer and his family in the 14th century and the descriptions of the Norse environment are all very real and life like.
The story however of Kristen just frustrated me.
Perhaps the theme then is: you can't help whom you fall in love with.
But then, Kristen knows and feels the guilt that this will have on her family.
I just wanted to stab the man in the eyes too.
Furthermore, just reading the ending and learning more about her parents relationship with each other, I just wanted to bang my head into a wall.
Honestly, the real theme in this book should be: communication people.
A Norwegian JourneyThis first novel of Sigrid Undset’s famous trilogy begins at Jørundgaard and introduces us to Kristin Lavransdatter, her family, its history and the surroundings deep in the mountain valleys of northern Norway during the Middle Ages.
As I read the novel I wondered if I was just charmed by the Norwegian language?
(hide spoiler)]A Norwegian wedding crownIt is very peculiar how Undset based the novel on the dynamics of a specific relationship.
I enjoyed it (probably because of the thrill of reading my first book in Norwegian), but had a little alarm bell going off in the back of my mind.
There is something so refreshing about the stark simplicity of Undset's language.
And yet the simplicity of language gave us quite beautiful descriptions, particularly of the natural world.
I’m not sure I ever realized that simplicity could be so lyrical.
Her ability to lead us by the hand into the mindset of the middle-ages was fascinating.
She leaves us asking, in the end, which is more worthy, love or traditional obedience and morality?
And we are so immersed in the morality of the middle-ages by that point that the answer is not at all clear to us.
Reading this was a beautiful experience!
Uff DaNo, Really, this book took it out of me.I loved it, but it is dense and sorrow-filled.
As this book is the first of three I cannot really review it until I've finished all of them.
I can say that rarely does a book get this much of a reaction from me.
I started talking about Kristin Lavransdatter like she was real.
I ordered the other books via Powells this week, and it will take abit for them to get here, which is good because I need a break.
Loved the setting of Norway in the 14th Century, the customs, beliefs and the descriptions of the environment.
A way of life that is hard to imagine.However I found it difficult to connect with the characters, with Kristen herself.
This novel deals with her life from childhood up until her marriage at a young age to an older man, Erland.
I found it difficult to empathise with some of the life choices that Kristen made and the means she was willing to go to have what she wanted in life.
It was characters surrounding Kristen that I identified with.
A beautifully written novel.
Last night I finished reading Kristin Lavrandatter Book I, The Wreath.
It is the fourth time I read this book.
I now I know what becomes of the rest of Kristin's life.
This is one of the great benefits of rereading: it is like a contemplated life.
When we don't reread, it is a bit like living without contemplation; it is the contemplation that makes our life richer.
I can't wait to read the book again, and eventually, I'm sure, to read this again, too.I finished reading this for the third time March 25, 2014.
This was translated by Charles Archer and J.S. Scott and is very difficult to read. If anyone wants to read this "Kristin Lavransdatter," do yourself a favor and get the edition translated by Tiina Nunnally.I don't usually don't pay attention to translators and just read what is available at the public library or at project Gutenberg, but I'm taking that Archer/Scott translated edition of volumes 1-3 back the library bec I purchased Nunnally translation (used copy of the complete work under one cover for $8 and change plus S&H).
Kristin – why the hell are you so high maintenance?! In a time when parents could barely keep their children alive you need, need, need the love and attention of everyone! Oh – and then you toss it away as it suits you. And we love you for it.This is one of the favorites that I’ve read in my lifetime. There are three (but probably more) reasons for this:1) Kristin. You drive me crazy but I’ve been you (many of us have). I’ve been a carefree child with a father who would have given me the world i
In a time when parents could barely keep their children alive you need, need, need the love and attention of everyone!
I’ve fallen in love with the perfect boy for me (yes, Arne) but moved on because there had to be more to life.
And I’ve fallen for the boy that I knew would not be good for me.
Just getting water for coffee would have taken forever – why even care about coffee by the time it’s brewed.
And honestly, wasn’t the BO a big turn off?3)	Norway – at any time.
I remember reading this as a teen-ager, but except for the vague memory of a passionate romance, I don't remember it at all.Reading it now, as a grandmother, I must say that I didn't see Kristin as heroic.
I responded most sympathetically to her parents, their personal disappointments and their sorrow over Kristin's choices.Undset's imagination is without peer.
She is steeped in the time and the place, which contribute greatly to the authenticity of her tale, which could also be read as a 20th century woman's vendetta against the traditional woman's role.I think I enjoyed the descriptions of Norway the most.
I don't think any of the three volumes were meant to stand alone without the other two. I think if you decide to read this you should plan on reading the next two volumes. Taken together they tell the story of Kristin's life beginning in about 1300 Norway.
Part 1 of 3. Nunnally's translation is much better than the older one I gave up on, and avoids the clunky use of 'thees' and 'thous'.I can't comment on the story yet - a character's petulance now may be calmed later.
She would rejoice if she had a good spiritual head but it seems that Kristin is going to learn that we must find our way to God and truth ourselves if we truly seek to be enlightened.Undset:I think she has shown that women would prefer a strong male head but that in the main both men and women are flawed and that ultimately we must strive together side by side.I believe what she is showing in the novel is that the journey to enlightenment is a personal journey that can at times be very lonely.
A good page turner set entirely in its 14th century.
As much as I liked the prose, I found that the characters didn't connect to me at a 4 star level of enjoyment.
But I found the women difficult and some of the men distasteful.
I would have liked it far more if the women had been less moody.
And I don't think her raw rebellion is an empowerment to being a female in her time at all.
In fact, the big surprise to me was the rather blatant level of immorality to the standard of the time.
I think this trilogy will be a new favorite of mine.
Full of haunting religious imagery, The Wreath begins the story of Kristin Lavransdatter a young woman growing up in 14th century Norway and is her spiritual journey.
In this volume we see Kristin's life and soul destroyed by her all-consuming desire for sin.
This is very much so not a politically correct book and I don't know what those who are offended by Christianity would think of it but I loved this first volume!
I have nothing against love affairs and romance in books, but then I, the reader, have to feel and experience at least an inkling of that love felt by the characters. I must point out that the copy I read, the only Kindle version available to me in Europe, has ISBN number 978 0 307 789716. Unfortunately it was NOT translated by the talented Tiina Nunnally. Don't expect wonderful prose. Probably Tiina Nunnally has succeeded ; choose her translation instead.You do perhaps get a feel for the era.I read through Part 2, chapter 6, i.e. half of the book.
Amazing book... Will come back and write a review after I finish the trilogy. ><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><My friend Carol has been after me to read the Kristin Lavransdatter trilogy (of which this is the first book) for forever. Am finally taking the plunge. It was la Fort's glowing endorsement on top of my friend's consistent urging which has worn me down. This book looks like a monster. That plus medieval Nordic fiction seems a bit daunting...
Can't remember when I read this, but I LIVED in the Kristin Lavransdatter books! Such a spirited heroine in medieval Norway. ALWAYS get the Tiina Nunnally translation -- the older one is much clunkier.
why my dad is named erlend! and he's the sexy bad boy character - Veloy (his mom)had a side I didn't know about. Though I guess Blaine (his dad) could be a little rowdy from what I've heard!
Why, oh why, isn't this book boring?
Understated masterpiece - they don't hand out Nobel prizes for nothing you know!
Wonderfully evocative of both time and place (comprising social conventions, descriptions of landscape), superbly realised characters (particularly the old priest Brother Edvin and Kristin's father Lavrans).
Some soap-opera-like plot misunderstandings/tribulations blended with more serious/thoughtful /emotional passages.
Success on every level makes this a remarkable achievement, and I still have the other two books to look forward to!(P.S. I read the early Archer & Scott translation, which I found excellent, but if it's true that the more recent Nunnally translation is better then I would probably need more than 5 stars!)
This book is strangely hypnotic, and I am eager to start The Wife.Kristin is an interesting heroine. I applaud her independent spirit, and her determination to pursue what she believes will make her happy, despite the consequences, in a time when women were prevented from experiencing any freedom, and were not trusted to make choices about their own lives.At the same time as I applaud her insistence on pursuing her own course, I am internally screaming at her choices -- Don't do it! Don't do it!This is, in part, what makes it such a readable, and memorable book.
