https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/417015.The_Question_of_German_Guilt
Karl Jaspers examines the question of German guilt associated with the rise of Nazism. He distinguishes 4 types of 'guilt' - criminal, moral, metaphysical and political. This is one of the most honest attempts I have ever read dealing with this important issue.
Que lucidez extrema, que capacidade de ponderar enquanto a história está acontecendo.
Jaspers explores the various internal responses that Germans had available to them in the aftermath of WW2.What's timely and valuable to read now, as an American, is to see how powerful it is to reflect upon the actions of your country.
The USA has worked itself into a position where it is utterly incapable of learning from its past.
or rather the only mistakes it has ever made were in being not warlike enough or not "American" enough (e.g.
It's absurd to think we're "destined for greatness"--we must work toward it.
Jaspers tries to pin down what sorts of guilt can attach to people and peoples, and what the appropriate responses are — using the experience of the German people during the Nazi regime as his example.There is an element of “I am the professor, I’m in the front of the room, I have a theoretical edifice, you listen and write it all down good” about all of this.
In this book, a German professor speaks to German university students about guilt just after the Second World War had ended. The book is condensed from his lectures. There is some mention of the Holocaust, but it is not as central as I would have expected. To some extent, the question of this book is more "how are we still doing this -- going to class, listening to professors, being a nation?" and the answer seems to be through an exploration of guilt, which Jaspers breaks into four types: criminal, political, moral, and metaphysical.
guilty for allowing a Nazi political takeover?
guilty for standing by and watching the systematic extermination of the Jewish people?He does so through the creation of a four-part philosophical framework of guilt that explores what it means to be held accountable for both action and inaction.
His analyses ring chillingly relevant in today's political landscape."True, among our people many were outraged and many deeply moved by a horror containing a presentiment of coming calamity.
That is moral guilt.But the ones who in utter impotence, outraged and despairing, were unable to prevent the crimes took another step in their metamorphosis by a growing consciousness of metaphysical guilt."-- "Guilt" (67)
Although many years have passed Since Karl Jaspers wrote his book on ‘The question of German guilt’. The question on the responsibility of the civilians for their government acts (Whether the Government was elected in a democratic manner or not) is still applies today.In an era where countries still deny their responsibilities for genocide (such as Turkey). In an era where Governments violently suppress their civilians (such as Libya, Syria), the question of personal responsibility Remains relevant and exceed the Holocaust original context.
Fascinante. Ao analisar a culpa do povo alemão sob o nazismo, Jaspers vai além, e dá um testemunho lúcido de fé na humanidade.
Did you ever feel guilty because you belong to a group of people? Then this is a book for you...
The idea behind is that discourse helps heal the trauma; it was precisely lack of communication that was the most enduring legacy of the war.In order to do justice to the victims on the one hand and to reserve the possibility of recovery for the German people on the other, Jaspers distinguishes among four levels of guilt: the criminal, the political, the moral, and the metaphysical.The criminal guilt was derived directly from the trials after the war.
I had to pick up a book for my philosophy class at university and chose this one, because it was a thin book (I got to be honest here) and also because it covered a theme I was quite interested in.I've been reading about the WW2 a lot, but mostly the memoirs of survivors from different countries, different nationalities, Jews, Gipsies, communists, local farmes.
But I never thought of the things ordinary Germans had to go through after the war was lost.
It's a book that'll leave you pondering on the guilt itslef and your view of the Germans after the war.
I don't have the right adjective to describe this book: it wasn't "amazing" or "awe-inspiring" or "fascinating", but it was a damn interesting book which gave a great deal of insight into the human soul, particularly regarding the guilt of the holocaust.
However, I felt that many of his words about guilt, particularly moral and metaphysical guilt, could be applied to everyday life and current world catastrophes very easily.
I'm really not a philosopher, and there was a lot in the book which was clearly written by a philosopher--this did not appeal to me.
This was an incredible book.
This is one of the book that influenced a lot in my way of perception guilt in generally seance. Loved it.
"La colpa metafisica consiste nel venir meno a quell’assoluta solidarietà con l’uomo in quanto uomo.
È una pretesa incancellabile, anche quando le esigenze ragionevoli della morale sono già cessate.
Questa solidarietà viene lesa quando io mi trovo a essere presente là dove si commettono ingiustizie e delitti.
Non basta che io metta a rischio con ogni cautela la mia vita per impedirli.
Una volta che quel male ha avuto luogo e io mi sono trovato presente e sopravvivo, dove un altro viene ucciso, in me parla una voce che mi dice che la mia colpa è il fatto di essere ancora vivo." (p.
Pequeno livro mas contundente análise sobre a culpa após o nazismo, ao definir e classificar o conceito. Mas acima de tudo traça um panorama de como era a sociedade nazista antes de seus crimes serem revelados, como gradativamente o regime eleito se tornou totalitário e como a sociedade era cooptada pelo nazismo. A lição serve os tempos atuais em especial sobre o risco crescente do fascismo.
Impressionante que tenha sido escrito em 1945. Ajuda a entender o que o nazismo (ou o nacional-socialismo) significou para os alemães.
Excelent!
However, Jaspers delineates four different types of guilt, criminal guilt, political guilt, moral guilt and metaphysical guilt.The first type is related to breaking of laws and in this particular case, Jasper points out, the law is decided by the Allies and not by the Germans.
Jaspers kind of leaves it at that, but I think Hannah Arendt has a more insightful analysis about the issue of criminal guilt in a totalitarian society in that the very law is immoral according to her.
They sound very clear cut in tho book, but with Arendt's question it is obvious that for example criminal and moral quilt are not necessarily easily divided.Secondly, political guilt is a more wide spanning and communal.
Another one by way of the Churchill archives. This short and very readable book is by a German philosopher written immediately after WWII. It specifies the types of German guilt and suggests punishments. Ward Churchill, in  On the Justice of Roosting Chickens: Consequences of American Conquest and Carnage adopts and amends this schema to arrive at his own conclusions about the guilt of USians.
2,9*
