https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/3975186-true-colors
Hannah does a super job of making you feel the emotions the characters are experiencing, at familiarizing you to the settings and the motivations of the story and just simply making you FEEL.
Whether it be sadness, anger, love or disgust you get to crawl into some of the characters lives and see the story through their perspective.
You started to feel the emotion and understand the angst and jealousy.
It is a slow start but makes up for it by being a sincere love story with characters that are human and imperfect, yet heroically trying to be great.
Anyway, this book is about three sisters trying to stay together as a family.
The three sisters are trying to make their way in life and get torn apart but certain events that happen along the way.
The youngest sister runs the family horse farm and there are parts about the horses they just break your heart but makes you understand that animals can give us a sense of stability and happiness.
Animals can help us get through the most difficult times in our lives when there is no one else to turn to.
I had saved this book thinking I would have a lovely time reading.
I have read a lot of her books, and always enjoyed them.
The relationships between the three sisters are interesting, and not real relationships.
There were instances where the book is so stilted with the development of some characters, I wouldn't want to read further.
I got depressed the further I read, and I kept hoping that the story would get better.
There are many ends just left, such as a resolution for the middle sister, Aurora which never happens.
The other two sisters just irritated me.
Needless to say, I didn't like this book.
The skinny, blonde, athletic sister was popular, loved by dad, able to attract the best catch in town, a bit wild, etc., etc., etc.
The fat, smart, unpopular sister was not popular, unloved by dad, and unable to capture the best catch, etc., etc., etc.
The third sister was a flat character who appeared when the author needed someone to tie the story together.I don't think I'll even bother passing this book on to my daughter, best friend or casual acquaintance.
Winona is the oldest, Aurora the middle one and Vivi Anne is the young beautiful one favored by gruff old dad.
It’s no wonder this woman can’t get a date.Later on a major plot development happens that only cements my previous dislike for Winona and helps me feel compassion towards Vivi Anne even though she is too weak of a character to fully embrace.
It’s here that the book did fully grab my attention but not because of the tangled relationship between the sisters but because of a troubled young teen boy and his journal entries.
Three and a half stars.This is a story of three sisters - Winona, Aurora and Vivi Ann Grey.
Decisions made by Winona, Vivi Ann , Luke and Dallas have far reaching consequences that affect not only their lives but those around them and the lives of those yet to come.
I liked some of the dialogue especially where Aurora after hearing Winona’s idea for helping her father and trying to gain his approval, tells Winona, ‘Yeah, well, you’ve got the learning curve of a lemming.’ Enjoyable and raises some interesting issues about family dynamics, love, jealousy, bitterness, betrayal, guilt, prejudices and racism.
For me, I believe that family is not one of blood but of faith and trust in one another, of standing by their side no matter what happens, and loving them no matter what others may say.Unconditional love is what we all should give and receive in our lives but this is not always what happens.
And if we have family along the way then we are truly blessed.I don't want to spoil the story for you by saying too much so you're going to have to trust me on this one...it is a MUST read.Now to get my hands on the next Kristin Hannah novel...Winter Garden, here I come..(-:
I couldn't believe that I forgot about reading True Colors but I am happy that I finally did.
I didn't get one until 2017 (I wont name which month I finally got one because it's just super sad that it took me so freaking long to get a card...)Now this is my first book ever written by Kristin Hannah and let me just say that I wasn't disappointed at all.
I felt a crack appear in my heart (which I know I'm being very dramatic but I just love books so much!)Anyways, I loved all of the characters with True Colors.
But after a while, it just started to wear on me.True Colors is the story of 3 sisters in a small town in Washington as they try to keep their family ranch afloat, find love, and live their lives.
I just wanted to shake both of them and scream, "Oh, grow up already!"A bizarre plot twist about halfway through the book really turned me off and I didn't much feel like reading the rest.
It seemed like it was more of the same bickering and selfishness, which makes me think I didn't miss much by not reading it thoroughly.
No one else in the story seemed to think so, though, not even Winona, or Aurora, the supposedly perceptive sister.
The sisters' relationships were a lot more nuanced, and, even though there was still conflict, everyone's perspectives were easier to understand.Still, it didn't erase that the first half of the book had me rolling my eyes and considering moving on to another audio book.
It was, in the end, an enjoyable read filled with some heartwarming messages about love and family and what's important, but I really felt like Hannah is capable of better characterization than what was in the first half of this book.
Some have described this story as "chick-lit" but, in my opinion, it couldn't be further from that genre.
It's not an easy story with simple, likable characters.
The beginning is sketchy about all of the characters but they become more vivid as the story unfolds.
There's tragedy, resilience, romance and heartbreak but through it all, I felt like the characters were responding realistically to their personalities.
I didn't always like the direction of the story but it felt authentic.
This isn't a feel-good romance but it is an intriguing story.
I highly recommend this book if you're looking for a well-written story with interesting, likable and flawed people.
I felt like I was reading a Harlequin Romance book, complete with the stereotypical Perfect Sister, the Chubby Smart Sister, the Beautiful Wild Sister and the Indian Who Scares The White People.
This is my first Kristin Hannah book, and I've had friends recommend her.
Maybe it's a bit like Jodi Piccoult, you either love her or ...
It just felt like a goofy book with characters that anyone could have designed.
I guess if you want your brain to just turn off and pretend like it's never heard of these people, then this is the book for you.
Prva zamjerka ide II dijelu romana koji je prilično razvučen i manje uzbudljiv od I.
Druga zamjerka ide sestrama koje su sušta suprotnost jedna drugoj, Vivi Ann je za moj ukus previše tvrdoglava, Winnona se previše žali na debljinu i svako malo ispoljava svoju ljubomoru, a Aurora nije do kraja izgrađen lik koji se pojavljuje u momentima kada neko treba smiriti situaciju; propast njenog braka nije ni opisana, već samo spomenuta u par rečenica.
Naravno, tu je i otac zbog kojeg sam poželjela ući u knjigu samo da mu odvalim šamarčinu.
Samo mi je Posljedni ples leptira za peticu :)
I really enjoyed this one! I love Kristin Hannah's books.I know when I chose to read a book written by her I am going to read a wonderful story filled with likable characters. That is exactly what I got with this book. This is a story about 3 sisters who are all very close until an event tears them apart. I could feel all the emotions and heartbreak that they were going through. This was sad at times but a great story. Highly recommend.Thank you to St. Martin's Press for a free copy in exchange for an honest review.
Following on from her storyline, she includes a character (Dallas Raintree), who marries one of the Grey sisters and later becomes false accused and sentenced for the crime of murder.Before that contemporary twist to the story, however, the novel centers on the relationships of the three Grey sisters, Winona (a lawyer), Aurora (a stay at home mom, who later opens her own store), and Vivi Ann, the most beautiful sister and the baby of the family.
Get out your tissues, you are going to need them.Wednesday I had a flight to Seattle and back and since it was such a short day I decided I could do without a book and just do work things.
Well as often occurs at the airport flights are delayed and other things occur, so I ended up with 5 hours on my hands.The first three hours I did alright but then I was bored out of my mind so I headed to the closest book stand.
The book is the ensuing 12 years of sorrow for the Grey family, 3 sisters and a father.
I've read most of Kristin Hannah's books for a reason. I get thoroughly involved in her stories! I find her characters to be human and the dialogue believable. I felt connected and involved with the people in True Colors. I cared what happened to them and I cried along with them. I know for a fact that horses can help a person through the darkest of times. The author captured that type of healing bond beautifully. The sisters had their rough spots and true love and devotion was tested, but it all came together so beautifully in the end.
<3 Prelijepa.
This was one of those love to hate reads for me.
I loved every minute, but I was angry so many times.
I love how Kristin Hannah can pull out so many emotions from you, and this was no exception.
The sisters relationships are complicated, and you there will be times you love them and hate them.
I ended up listening to it that night as well, as I needed to finish and to find out what happened.
I did want more from the ending as it was a little rushed where other parts dragged out.
The story focuses on 3 sisters on a ranch in the West, with an emotionally unavailable rancher father (who's pretty much a douche all the way through) and a mother dead from cancer when the girls are young.
The fat oldest sister can't please her father, the middle sister is the peacemaker (and has no real story to speak of) and the youngest sister is the beloved gorgeous blonde, who does everything well and steals the hearts and minds of the town.
I normally really enjoy Kristin Hannah's work, but this one just didn't grab me.
I think it was the lack of sympathetic main characters.
It seemed like the sisters were whiney, self-serving, and were constantly reminding themselves that "sisters trump men." It didn't help, obviously.
I could see the plot line coming from a mile away, and there were several inconsistencies in the story.
For instance, Vivi Ann works with a group of pre-teen 4H'ers.
One of the girls' mother is one of Vivi Ann's childhood classmates.
Vivi Ann is 24.
So this girl must've been a mom when she was what, 13?
I loved this book! I have read some great stories recently and I have had some difficulty in finding stories that grip me, keep me interested and that I can love. I probably should have known to turn to the author who wrote the book that will forever remain one of my favourites...The Nightingale by Kristin Hannah! I read this book within 24 hours! I would recommend this book.
Gosto da escrita da autora e este foi dos melhores que li dela.Uma história simples, um amor verdadeiro, personagens fortes... tudo para dar un livro que me agarrou do princípio ao fim.Aconselho :)
"Onu hala seviyor musun?""Dallas ile senin arandakiyle kıyaslanırsa..." Söyleyecek söz bulamayınca omuz silkti.Ablasının koluna dokunarak, "Bu bir yarış değil," dedi Vivi Ann.
Kitabı beğenmediğimi söyleyemem ve hatta kitabı bitirene kadar çok beğenmiştim ama sonrasında üzerinde biraz fazla düşününce bazı şeylerin kitabın güzelliğini sömürdüğü kanısına vardım.
Vivi Ann ile Dallas'ın aşkı kitabın kesilikle en güzel yanıydı ve yazarın en büyük hatası da bu güzel ikiliyi parçalama nedeniydi.
Beni en çok öfkelendiren daha sonrasında olayın temize kavuşmasının da bu kadar kolay olması.
Ve yazarın senelerin geçmesi konusunda bu kadar zalim olması bu kitapta beni oldukça rahatsız etti.
***SPOILER*** Like after Vivi Ann gets married, suddenly it's two years later.
I waned to know what happened between these stupid jumps but you just barely find out as they mention it in passing.Example: Aurora shrugging off the fact that her husband, Richard, had an affair with his nurse at some point during a time lapse and they are now divorced but THIS FACT WILL NEVER BE MENTIONED AGAIN BECAUSE IT'S AURORA AND SHE'S THE MIDDLE CHILD AND WHO CARES ABOUT HER LET'S HEAR MORE ABOUT WINNONA AND HER ICE CREAM ADDICTION.I could go on and on about what I didn't like about this book.
Vivi Ann, is engaged to a real nice guy, but isn’t in love with him and follows her heart and passion when Dallas, the new ranch hand shows an interest in her.
The plot thickens when Vivi Ann goes against her family and marries Dallas who gets arrested for murder!
This is a great story that shows the bond between sisters as well as a contemporary romance and the struggle of a single mom whose husband is rotting away in prison.I loved this book because the characters were so believable and the story line drew me in and wouldn’t let go!
Each of them have their own struggles, but the fact that they remain true to each other is amazing.
My heart went out to Vivi Ann. When she fell in love with Dallas, she fell hard!
But her strength and determination to stand by her man during the hard times was so uplifting.
It didn't become evident that she hid her own problems and feelings until late in the story since she was always so busy worrying about Vivi and Win. I laughed and cried through this book and have added Kristin Hannah to my favorite author list.
Her ability to make me "feel" the story is amazing!
I thought the author did a good job with Winona and Viva Ann, but I didn’t feel as connected with Aurora as I did the other two.The book begins in 1979 shortly after their mother's passing.
Jealousy will cause Winona to do the unthinkable, while Vivi Ann is torn between following her heart and obeying her father’s demands.Without giving too much away, the reader quickly comes to understand that within the Grey family, buried secrets will always find a way to resurface.
Be true to yourself and know that sometimes in life you may just have to stand alone.
True Colors by Kristin Hannah ~ Wow...so at first I was reading this and thinking to myself, well Kristin has gone all "Romance Novel" on us and all I could picture were those cheesy Fabio book covers....
I know a book is good when I am sitting at work reading it and I have to gather myself to answer the phone because I am boo hooing!
This is such a great love story based on the lives of 3 sisters and the men that come and go....
If you have sisters, you should read this....
It was really a very touching novel.
This novel is about relationships between the Grey sisters, Winona, Aurora, and Vivi Ann. Wynona is an overweight lawyer who never married, and never felt acceptance from her father.
Luke, Winona's secret love, returns to town only to fall in love with Vivi Ann and become engaged.
This was a very quick read for me.This book covers many life issues--like prejudice, sibling rivalry, family acceptance of spouses, small town gossip, and raising teens.Quote:"It was something she would pass on, not just to her son, but to her husband, who didn't yet understand that he belonged here, on this land, in this place.
