https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/133488.Tales_of_the_South_Pacific
1948 Pulitzer Prize winner.This was the book that caused the Pulitzer committee to change the name of the category from novel to fiction.
But it's historical fiction at a high level; you don't come away from a Michener book saying I didn't learn anything.
And where most historical fiction writers lean heavily on the fiction and less on the history, Michener leans on the history.This book spawned a successful Broadway musical, South Pacific, and a feature film.
It was also the basis for Michener's television series, Adventures in Paradise.
While he does have poetic phrases at his command, what he can say without saying it – a subtly omitted word or a hint - is breathtaking.Michener impresses with his vast understanding of the scope of a military operation, as in the chapter “Alligator” (the codename for a fictitious invasion) – the planning, the estimated casualties, the men needed to build, the men needed simply to replace pencils and paper for plans, and on and on – and then he finishes with a few brief, poignant lines of a man who wrote to a plain woman – “who would never be married in a hundred years anyway” – a proposal: “You was very sweet to me and I want to tell you if I…” “But he didn’t.
I think this book is a must-read for any American in the post-WWII era.
Framed as a collection of loosely-connected short stories, narrated from a single perspectivce, Mitchner weaves together themes of love, loss, and struggle with a lucid and sometimes technical commentary on the American war effort in the Pacific theater.
This is the oldest story in our collective history: anecdotes and tales of adventure, set against an exotic background, grounded in our own perspective.
The "Tales" are above all inspiring--and stand apart from any American literature written since the inception of our nation.
I'm probably already prejudiced when reading any PP winner, but I really tried to remain neutral while reading this book.
I respect those who fought and died for their country, but then I'm torn when I read accounts of those men willing to lay down their lives for those they left behind, but are having multiple affairs with woman while abroad.
I wasn't used to reading a book where most of the racism was thrown against other races (like the "yellows" or the "Japs") and I wasn't as affected by the racial terms.
Not at all like South Pacific, no body talking happy talk, no women warbling about washing men out of their hair. What there is, is a collection of stories, some funny, some tragic and all set in the south pacific. Michener writes well and you begin to care about the men he talks about, many seem disillusioned, far away from home and family and seeming to spend most of the time waiting.
He was a favorite of my grandfather's.
I get the sense that his narrative voice may have been similar to the voice in my grandfather's head- the same matter-of-fact, US white male dominated world-view that pre-dated the 70's.
It was interesting to read this just after Guard of Honor- same war, same time period- 2 very different waiting games but with similar relationship tensions among genders, classes, ranks and ethnic groups.
I applaud Michener for the sensory experiences he can manufacture and for playing around with narrative structures- chronology and narrators were unpredictable.
Outstanding.
My favorite Michener.
It won a Pulitzer Prize, what more can I say about it.
Mini vignettes about World War II in the Pacific that are funny, ironic, and tragic.
How it became a musical I'll never understand.
It should have been an epic series like "Winds of War" or "Band of Brothers".
Maybe some day.
(I was reading these while on active duty in the Air Force so I could visualize quite easily some of his settings.) As you can see I developed a love for Michener after "Tales .
Read and enjoy the ride.
I took awhile to get through it (but that could be just me - I don't particularly feel the need to rush through books like this...
"Before me lay the dead, the heroic dead who took the island.
Upon a strange plateau, on a strange island, in a strange sea, far from their farms and villages, they slept forever beside the lagoon which bore them to their day of battle.
If you sit at home and read that two hundred and eighty-one men die in taking an island, the number is only a symbol for the mind to classify.
In this way, by creating a truly ridiculous, non-commendable character who’s defining trait at the end of the narrative is her deplorable racism (towards children), the author himself challenges the same as-yet-unquestioned values of American life that the “end of innocence” confronts, and suggests that racial discrimination not be left unopposed, but, rooted in ignorance, should be corrected by education and the entry into a new post-war era of equality.
It is incredibly slow, is shows a very distorted fairy-taleesque picture of the Pacific theater, and many of the problems in the story, in my opinion, are incredibly mundane.
However, despite disliking the book I respect the role of Tales of the South Pacific in American literary history.
The American public had been through so much during WWII that they would not be interested in a Saving Private Ryan novel equivalent, like Helmet for My Pillow.
As a result, we get Tales of the South Pacific.
A mundane book about mundane events, except for the second to last story.
Our fathers and grandfathers war. Now we need to fight the one on our hands. Can't do a good review with current GR settings. Just housekeeping here.
Although widely fictional - as always with Michener - the excellent short stories and tales take the reader along some of the U.S. Navy operations between 1942 and '44, focusing on the Solomon and Russell islands, as well as a major fictional operation against the Japanese empire on Kuralei island.
The author served in the Pacific himself, making this 360-page novel extremely vivid, accountable and worth reading to this day.
Michener had the talent to describe a cacao plant in every detail for half a dozen pages, and as a reader you were still captured by his beautiful use of English.

While a great part of Michener's novel is light-hearted, one should take into account that it was published in 1947, just 2 years after the end of the War. Like our military is reluctant to discuss the horrors of the Middle East wars, I'm sure Michener, being a veteran who had served as a Lt. Commander in the Pacific Theater, wanted to write something that was not just a rehash of the horrors he had just witnessed.That being said, "Tales" is a loosely written chain of stories connected by common characters, time and place.
Rogers and Hammerstein simply picked four out of many."Tales" is a rich feast of well-developed characters, stunning descriptions of beautiful coral lagoons and heart-felt stories of life, love, humor, death, heroism and the injustices of mortality.
Not compelling. Felt too much like reading out of obligation. I kept thinking, "It won the 1948 Pulitzer, it will be good. Just keep going". Yet, time is short and there are too many other glorious options waiting to spend in drudgery. It's not you, it's me.
When attempting to describe the South Pacific, the opening narrator claims he is unable to do so because to because “the people intervene”—or rather, digressions about the people he met such as “an old Tonkinese woman who used to sell human heads;” the “Remittance Man,” who lived among the “Japs” and broadcasted “radio news of their movement” until the day he died; the “mad commander” who, at two o’clock in the morning, summoned a carpenter to sand out a spot in his floor; and an “ugly old” admiral who, while flying above the islands, raised a tentative finger and pointed, saying, “That’s where we’ll build our base.” There were also the men of “lesser ranks,” like Tony Fry, who painted twelve beer bottles on his plane, one for each mission in which he ferried alcohol, or Luther Billis, who, despite being enlisted, went as shirtless as a native, with bracelets and tattoos to boot.
Michener has written a deeply moving series of stories set in the South Pacific during the height of world war 2. Michener himself served in this theatre of the war and pours his heart and soul into it. what is so striking about the work is he places the simple mundane existence of the characters besides the very real specter of combat and death. He paints these stories so vividly that you feel you are there. It is no wonder that He won the Pulitzer Prize for fiction for this his first work!
Nellie Forbush, Emile de Becque, Bloody Mary, Lt Cable, Luther Billis that you know from the musical South Pacific are all in Michener's collection of short stories, and while you will recognize these characters from the musical, and some of the story lines, their tales here are slightly different with somewhat different endings.
Front line assault soldiers knew the probabilities of dying, and they very often did, but when a small group of brave soldiers charge attacking Japanese and they paradoxically become common victims with their enemies of Allied artillery fire, the reader is struck by the arbitrary nature of death in war.
James Michener was in the U.S. Navy, and traveled widely through the area, giving him a unique view of various places, people, and events, and these must have been quite fresh in his mind when he wrote the book.The musical South Pacific was based upon the book.
But the musical only used a sliver of the tales, that were quite varied.One story was set in the black days of 1942 – New Zealanders preparing for a likely invasion by the Japanese, who would certainly treat them like they treated the Chinese.
PASSION AND PENANCE IN PARADISE  Mitchener’s World War 2 collection of short stories remains as vibrant and compelling in terms of human interest today as when it was written.
Alternating between the logistics of war with personal suffering and joy, these stories present the reader with a composite of life and death in tropical paradise.
Characters popularized in the Broadway musical, South Pacific, appear in several stories in this fascinating patchwork of passion and pathos.
As the ubiquitous narrator pays a respectful visit to the new cemetery, this collection draws to a gentle close, yet Mitchener’s unforgettable characters live on in our imagination.
Like many people, I've seen and enjoyed the musical South Pacific.
However, I had no idea that the musical was for the most part based on two of the short stories ("Our Heroine" and "Fo' Dollah") in this collection, which won a Pulitzer Prize.
It's been a while since I've seen the musical, so I was surprised at how forward the theme of anti-racism was, but even if you've seen the musical more recently than I have you'll still be impressed at how progressive Michener was in 1946.
Aside from the "big themes", this is a great collection of war stories, with lots of good military humor and some great writing.
Compared to similar novels of the era, this one probably seemed a little more jaded, not to mention controversial.
A little too much romance in it for me, but maybe that's what his editor thought would be needed to sell the book.
All in all, probably the most honest piece of fiction I've read from the 1940's.EDIT (2014): I wrote the above review before reading "From Here to Eternity".
THAT novel, might be the "most honest piece of fiction I've read from the 1940's".
However, both "South Pacific" and "Eternity" are great novels for a less mythologized look at the era.
Nice collection of stories.Not your average wartime book.
The war stories that are not combat.
Some were better some not, but they all gave a special perspective of the war that is usually not what you read in war stories.Following this book I shall give another try at "Islands in the Stream" by Hemingway that has some special symbolic meaning for me
My maternal grandfather was a Navy man in WWII.
His ship was involved in the battle for Guadalcanal and was part of a convoy supporting the reinvasion of the Philippines when it was hit by a kamikaze pilot, killing more than thirty sailors and crippling the vessel.
It was towed into the bay of an islet and most of the sailors camped on shore for a month while the ship was laboriously repaired despite recurring Japanese attacks.
But Grandpa loved James Michener.
He always seemed to be reading, or re-reading, a James Michener or a Louis Lamour novel.
I’ve always loved the musical South Pacific.
It was/ is a good book and I think holds up well over time.
The play did a good job of moving book characters to the stage.
The book explores racial issues in more depth and I found the last chapter very moving.
All in all it’s a good look back at our time in the South Pacific and what our men found to do while waiting for the next big battle to begin; a battle where many of them weren’t coming home from.
Not what I expected at all.
I knew it was the inspiration for the wonderful Broadway play, "South Pacific," which I loved when I saw the revival not long ago.
As a teen I'd thoroughly enjoyed the 1958 film, so I was eager to read more about Nellie and Bloody Mary.
They make up only a small portion of the book that has 19 short stories set on islands in the South Pacific during the war.
They're frequently humorous, but also sad, and some are shocking.
If you're looking for politically correct language, this isn't the book for you.
Good story but interracial relationships don't shock like they used to.
He hadn’t written before, but the intense exposure to the pressures of war and Michener’s curiosity about human character under such pressure inspired him to stay up nights on end telling stories.
Michener tells the stories of Americans of all military ranks from varied backgrounds and their interactions with each other, island natives, and island colonials.
Written in 1946, the book starts out with the building of a runway on a fictional island and ends with the aftermath of storming of a beach on another fictional island.
The stories are told with humor and humanity.It’s easy to see why this book won critical acclaim and the hearts of readers in the post WWII era.
Written in 1947, the introduction says at the end "...these men of the South Pacific....like their victories, will be remembered as long as our generation lives.
After that, like the men of the Confederacy, they will become strangers.
If you know the musical "South Pacific" familiar characters pop up all over..(and Oscar Hammerstein filched some of Michener's prose for his lyrics, I noticed) (Oh and if you are not familiar with the play, be forewarned that there is an extra little tearjerker jolt for you in the last story..I was expecting it and still almost tossed the book across the room)
I have always wanted to read this, being a HUGE fan of the Rogers and Hammerstein musical adaptation.
The only thing I had heard about it was that the adaptation was very loose and that the book was pretty racist, reflecting the times.
I found both to be true.
It took awhile to get into it, but then you meet such compelling characters as Bus Adams, Luther Billis, and Tony Fry, as well as the narrator, whose voice I thoroughly enjoyed, and you are hooked.
It is a book about people, and these people are well-written and intriguing.
