https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/733977.The_Little_Locksmith
Strangely, I had just read Margaret Atwood's book about being a writer NEGOTIATING WITH THE DEAD and I found Butler agonizing over the same troubles that Atwood described.
This time I found Butler, who begins the tale of THE LITLE LOCKSMITH in 1895, a little dramatic, but her story also resonated with another book I had just read called THE AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF A FACE by Lucy Grealy.
The books are worth reading one after another.
Butler is a lavish writer.
To me, this means that she lavishs her attention upon the things that she loves and details their meaningfulness to her.
The beginning of the sequence, then, is, first you see, then you admire.
Next admiration leads to gratitude, next, gratitude leads to humility, for the person who receives much feels grateful and then humble, because he wonders how he can have deserved such an extravagant kindness.
Humility is naturally followed by a feeling of wonder and adoration toward the source of these miracles, the god who made them and put them there.
In recognition of what they have seen, admired, and received, they finish the sequence, they put themselves and their lives into God's hands to do as He will with them.
3.5/5 This same feeling of my own intrinsic separateness was always with me, too, when certain grown-up callers insisted on coming burbling upstairs "to see poor little Katharine." I could always hear them coming and I knew just what to expect. I didn't need to be very subtle to realize from their puffing exclamations of pity and their heavily tactful asides that these visitors imagined that I was unfortunate. under their breath I heard the gruesome word "afflicted." Such people bored me beyond
It is extraordinarily valuable to have a record of a child rejecting the pitying glances of self serving adults and obnoxious children, for the bullying in the schoolyard is always handed down via the sins of the parents, and the only way to humanize disabled/mentally ill children is to rid the world of disability porn and other related ilk which those parents consume.
Unless you yourself go out of your way to listen to disabled/mentally ill folk, you're participating in their annihilation, as no individual exists in a vacuum, and a world that continues to herald "Me Before You" is a field of war for any person who refuses to fit the mold of human sacrifice for the sake of able others.
This book was not first published in 1980.
It was first published by Coward-McCann Inc. out of New York, in 1942, shortly after the death of the author, Katherine Butler Hathaway.
It was also published in Toronto, Canada, by Longmans, Green and Company.
This was a tremendously talented lady, with a very unusual take on life for any time period, but for the 1940's she was downright AMAZING!
I am only about a third of the way through her book right now (05-05-2010) and I am struck by the realization that every page is a little vignette of its own.
I will have to post another time when I have finished it.
I wish we could give half stars as this would get 3.5 stars from me. I wanted to like it and I did really like the premise. There was some really beautiful language and imagery. However I found a lot of repetition and a few tangents that were distracting. Worth a read but not quite what I was expecting.
Beautifully written, but it seemed to be leading up to something interesting throughout the novel and then totally fell flat. Hathaway has a unique poetic writing voice, however the pacing and the conclusion left something to be desired.
Beautifully poignant and unflinchingly honest. The kind of book I could read several times over. There are revelations about the limitations we place on ourselves versus the limitations placed on us by others as well as the well-intentioned protection/exclusion of people with chronic health issues that I'm still absorbing. Because the awakenings of the author are told with the sincerity of someone who still has their eyes wide open to them they invite introspection in the reader. The writing is comforting while the subject is stimulating and thought-provoking.
Had some great words in there (probably a bit old fashioned) that I had to look up. That's always fun.
But there is no doubt the story of her life is fantastic (if a bit one-sided in her analyses) and the writing is magnificent.
The failings of the book are generally just the failings of people; she goes on and on in beautiful prose about her complicated relationships with her family and friends, and at times she shows great insight but other times are woefully hypocritical.
Overall, great book, compelling narrative, and brilliant writing.
I wish she had lived long enough to write the sequel, so I could find out all about her life in her "island" house.
After being stricken with spinal tuberculosis and given the "treatment" of being strapped to a board for 10 years, she rose from her bed, no taller than a 10-year-old child, and with the hunched back that her parents hoped the treatment would save her from.
This is the story of her transformation from the disabled "pathetic" spinster to a woman who called her own shots and made a life for her self.Looking forward to diving into this one.
More review when I've read it!Finished the book.
That being said, it was an insightful book, interesting look into the author's mind, and the mindset of the early 1900's.
It would have been interesting to read more of her life.
Her highly disciplined commitment to writing provided the purpose; she later did find love and ultimately marriage.
Her determination to recover from depression and make sense of her life despite her disability was inspiring.
She brought a remarkable and consistent intensity to her creative work, as well as to the most mundane aspects of life.
Published in 1942 and now obscure, this was included by well-known author Elizabeth Gilbert on a list of her favorite books about creative inspiration.
Gilbert writes, "I wish every woman in the world would read it." So I did.
Katherine Butler Hathaway shares the story of her illness and recovery with strength and honesty.
It is to her credit that she loves life even after her experiences.The book felt monotonous at times.
Hathaway is upset because her illness prevented her from experiencing some aspects of life, "I," she says "who have so many appetities." Perhaps it is because I just read a biography of Mother Teresa, and another of Joni Erickson Tada, but I was underwhelmed by this one.I don't think life is about the satiation of appetites, it is about loving God and others.
I liked this book.
I do highly recommend this book and if it wasn't for the epilogue I would have given this book 4 stars.The epilogue is quite preachy and sanctimonious ( a tone that is not present in the memoir proper) and talks about the "new dark ages" and the "suicidally clever people" who do not believe in god, which as an atheist were a complete turn-off for me.
Perhaps being one of the people she seems to be speaking about made me more defensive towards this memoir than is justified, but if you are a fellow atheist I would recommend skipping the epilogue .
A fairly arduous read, the memoir of Katherine Butler Hathaway and the house which transformed her is as unbelievable, yet just as magical as a fairy tale.
A theme of 'transformation' runs rampant through the entire memoir - and not a transformation into something new, but a transformation into what you really and truly are.
Her memoir very seldomly goes to a dark place and she seems overly chipper at certain moments - as if she's trying very hard to convince the reader she's been happy all along.
A memoir of a disabled girl, who grows up to be a woman.
Along the way through the kindness of her family, and through her ability to write she finds a way to liberate herself from her afflictions.
It is through the power of her mind and spirit that she is able to free herself.
Go ahead and risk everything.
The experience of being born, of living, and of dying is all a poem, and every part of it should be received with wonder and gratitude.
Fall on your knees and worship the mystery.
I really wanted to like this book, the premise sounded so interesting. I tend to love the inspiring "against all odds" kind of stories -- if they are well written. Not the case here. This has to be the worst book I've read in the past decade. The writing is painfully dry and not the least bit compelling. Don't think there was one single person in my book club that enjoyed this book - and that's rare for our group. We have pretty diverse tastes.
I liked the premise of the book - the autobiography of a special needs writer who spent the bulk of her childhood strapped to her bed to - and I stuck with it for a week or so but while it's easy enough to read it's just not very compelling. I found it very hard to pick it up once I'd put it down. There are a couple of nice pages where she writes about protecting her writing time but not enough to make me finish it.
A lovely memoir about the author's early years when ill with tuberculosis that affected her spine with the cure being to strap her to a board. Despite the unusual nature of her upbringing and the effects of the disease, the author stays positive. Her ability to see the "magic" of life around her, her struggle through college to reach a point of indepth writing, and her eventual challenge toward her weaknesses leading to love, home and beyond are very well told.
This is a book I want to buy multiple copies of to give to my dearest friends. It is a book about devotion as an artist and also as a human being who finds meaning and a way of making sense of life.It is the memoir of Katharine who had tuberculosis of the spine that kept her from age 5 to 15 strapped to a board with her neck in a harness. What emerged was a woman with amazing imagination and a capacity to appreciate all of life.
This is an amazing book. Vivid descriptions and brilliant observations are related in perfect prose by this sharp young woman. She was a hunchback, an essential outsider, but blessed with intelligence, money, and a loving family. Lucky her, because without these things the life of artistry, beauty, and passion she carves out for herself might well have been re-cast to a hovel somewhere. Nope, not much doubt about that.
This is an interesting memoir that I recently discovered. It was a 1943 best seller and a main selection of theBook-of-the Month Club. Ms. Hathaway was born in 1890. Due to a tubercular spine she spent herchildhood strapped tight to a stretcher, on a hard bed. Her head was placed in a leather halterfrom which a five pound weight hung. It was considered the best treatment in 1895. She writes "Although my back was imprisoned, my hands and arms and mind were free."
Val,This is a very different book than those we have been reading.The author lived in Castine for awhile and bought a house there.I would like to see it if it still exists- hope to research it after the Christmas.I will save it for you -It is very old- Mrs. Gladys Henderson from church gave us some books which belonged to her husband, so I'd likeit back to read again sometime.
This was a fascinating little memoir about a girl with TB if the Spine. Her disability gave her an interesting perspective on life. She struggled and overcame her disability at a time when being a woman could be disability enough in establishing one's independence. She died before completing her story so the book ended abruptly, but otherwise a fine read.
I truly loved this book. While reading through the chapters I kept telling myself that Katherine seems to be in awe of God's works. After finishing The Little Locksmith and reading the Epilogue I find this to be true. I will have to go back (in the summer) and read the book over with a clear vision of Katherine's journey.
I read this as a recommendation of Elizabeth Gilbert - yes that Elizabeth Gilbert. It is a great story; however it takes a bit to get through English as it was written in 1934 and today. The change of structure made it even more enjoyable - like listening to someone who was in your grandparents' era. Excellent scene building and the introspective view she displays is excellent.
Story of a child spinal tyberculosis survivor. She lived to adulthood with a hunchback and only grew to the size of a 10 year old child. Her imagination, vision and drive transforms her life from a life of tragedy. I am hoping the fact that it is published by The Feminist Press doesn't mean I will be offended by it. So far so good.
This is a treasure of a book. I wish I could remember where I read about it...it's the story of a woman's early inner life as a crippled person (she was born in 1890 so that's really what she was) and how she overcame the impossibilities and barriers to become a poet and live a full, if short, life. Lovely writing and beautiful nature descriptions.
Read this in an illness narratives course and couldn't put it down. Katherine's voice is unique, concise, and can be easily related to. The limitations of her body are not outmatched by her determination to lead a full life. Loved her observations and unique perspective.
I enjoyed this book - although there were parts that I had a hard time getting through as they seemed to go on forever. It was not what I would call a light read. The reviews vary greatly! The parts I enjoyed most were little glimpses into another time!
This was a memoir with many beautiful insights. Kitty had a disability that colors her whole life, but does not imprison her mind. Her descriptions and epiphanies are beautiful.
