https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/19358975-saga-vol-3
This comic is so good it's starting to piss me off. Dear Mr. Vaughan, You should not be able to make me cry five times in the same fucking comic. Seriously. Twice in two pages? This will not do. It is neither seemly nor fair. Please knock that shit off. Fondly yours, patP.S. Please don't knock it off.
only little about sharks, but still worth floating for SHAAARRKK WEEEK! another great volume in what is shaping up to be an outstanding series. there were even some sharks in it this time! briefly  don't worry - i will be very careful here.what i liked most about this installment was how meta it was - there was so much time devoted to talking about books, the process of bringing books into the world, the joy of being confronted with stacks and stacks of new books, and there were some funny littl
there were even some sharks in it this time!
don't worry - i will be very careful here.what i liked most about this installment was how meta it was - there was so much time devoted to talking about books, the process of bringing books into the world, the joy of being confronted with stacks and stacks of new books, and there were some funny little jabs at authors:
who could be afraid of this sweet smiling face?although maybe she's different when she's working….in any event, there's a lot of wisdom in this volume, about the subtext of children's stories
I don't want this series to ever end. Please, don't ever end.
I.Can.Not.Put.Them.Down.*obliviates brain for next three weeks until the rest of the books arrive*(view spoiler)[Reason for half a missing star (they seriously need to introduce that on here by now): as much of a hopeless romantic I may be, I feel like there's unnecessary love starting to bloom around every corner now- I mean, Gwendolyn here's supposedly already in love with The Will? Come on man, give me a break. (Unlessss she didn't actually mean it cause ulterior motives ya know?) (hide spoiler)]
MY BLOG: Melissa Martin's Reading ListIn this volume Alana and Marko decide they are going to go looking for the author of the romance book they read.
That never happens does it....Meanwhile, The Will, Gwen, the little girl and lying cat are trapped on a planet that if you eat the fruit you will have hallucinations that make you want to stay there.
The Will almost dies during these hallucinations so Gwen hurries them off to find Marko to see if he can heal The Will as she has feelings for him.
You have a show down with Marko, Gwen and Alana.
JUST SO GOOD
These books are like Prozac..I just want to eat them up by the dozen.I think this one is even better than Volume 2. (Yes, I still haven't gotten vol. 1 yet)Our heroes Marco and Alana have gone to find their literary hero so that they can ask him questions about the book that caused them to become a couple. Then--stuff happens I wants all these books!!
I have high hopes that it will remain persistently good unlike so many other comics that fluctuate in quality.The best thing about this volume is a cyclops author who knows how to make a fucking great entrance and a lasting impression: And from here the first few issues fall into discussions about the importance of literature (even in a war torn world full of aliens, monsters and sexual deviants like this one.)Books can change the world and one particular book by this crazy cyclops man has brought the two central characters together, which led them to his door to seek answers about what do next.
I want to reach the last volume, but I also don’t want this to be over (I’ll probably read it anyway).I’m just really attached to the wonderful characters in this comic book.The fast paced plot, the funny dialogue, and the incredible relationships all make it impossible to put down.
It's a completely unputdownable story.And so much happened in that last chapter, I’m still trying to wrap my mind around it.
I can’t believe Gwendolyn killed D.
I truly can’t get over how great this comic book is.
I’m definitely not ready for it to end.Also, I loved watching Hazel slowly grow.
So cute.Support creators you love.
Of the 3 volumes of SAGA I've read so far, I think this one might be my favorite. Okay, that's largely because it featured a writer and I'm a bit partial to them...but I felt that action-wise, it was just especially well done. All of the cliff hangers and plot points that were introduced in volume 2 are now coming into fruition and it's so much fun! Can't wait to get to volume 4! I've written reviews on volumes 1 + 2 as well if you're interested in more in-depth thoughts. WEBSITE | TWITTER | FACEBOOK | INSTAGRAM
Just your typical story about a couple from opposing species of an interstellar war falling in love and having a baby, then fleeing the governments and hired mercenaries of both sides in a wooden rocketship with their ghost babysitter...Three volumes in and so far each one has been 5 stars. I'm pretty sure that has never happened to me before.
While it had its moments, it felt like not a whole lot happened until the end.
(hide spoiler)]I think my very favorite scene was when Sophie (Slave Girl) was with Lying Cat talking and says something about her being dirty because of all the things she had done to her and had to do and Lying Cat interrupts her --- "Lying." And Sophie smiles and cuddles Lying Cat. Awwwww.The art on the back with Marko and Alana posing like a bodice ripper cover was great!I hope we get more evolution and growth of the main characters.
The ship is on their way to visit Marko and Alana's favorite author, D.
The Will, Gwendolyn, Sophie, and Lying Cat are still searching for Marko and Alana, but the Will is starting to have his doubts, because he is seeing the Stalk.
Then, the Prince Robot IV confrontation we see with Mr. Heist in Vol. 2 comes into play.
The Brand meets with the reporters, while Prince Robot IV deals with his sexuality.Mr. Heist dies by the hands of Gwen, and completely broke my heart for Kiara.
First read in April 2014Reread in September 2015Third read in January 2018I found myself wanting to skim read the bits with the journalists.. for some reason I found them so boring, but other than that and the lacking of action that the first two volumes had, I loved it!
This series just keeps getting better it's like I can't NOT rate it a 5(Something I didn't say before tho ESP if you are younger this series has some explicit content so know that going in!)
The wild ride continues with Saga #3 as Alana and Marko, on the run, look both for a safe place for their family and their literary hero, D. Oswald Heist. There’s plenty of character development and quirkiness (which one expects from this series). I’m continuing to enjoy!
I shall write a review to express the awesomeness spreading from this series pretty soon. Let's say, in the 47,589,478 following days. I think. Also, this : This is amazing. We should take it for a slogan or something.
This just keeps getting better and better. So addicted.
I finished it all in a couple of hours on a Sunday afternoon, and now I have to wait until the end of the year for the next story arc to be completed (I refuse to read monthly installments for the same reason: too little material - just whetting my appetite for more and then leaving me hanging).
At this rate the series will take longer than A Song of Ice and Fire to reach the finish line.I think it is fair to say I would not be so disappointed if I didn't actually like what I read.
Re-Read 5/13/18:I cried a little.
I just got all choked up.
Again.I cannot understand just how attached to these guys I've gotten.
Every single last character.
It's like I'm under a spell.
A deep, dark spell.And then, to top it all off, EVERY SINGLE PERSON REFERENCED becomes ALIVE and BEAUTIFUL later!
I swear, this is only getting better every time I read it.
:) The whole thing.
Is. Blowing Me Away.
Don't kill your darlings.
Kill off everyone else until all who are left are your most precious ones.Still, I'm going to miss the one whom the narrative left behind.
I love this series so much, the characters are great and so is the world. Marko is the softest dad in the world, I love him so much. And Alana is such a fucking badass I'm shooked. The art is really beautiful too!This wasn't my favourite volume, but I did like Sophie in this one and the inclusion of a gay couple AND Gwendolyn being bisexual. (but I wasn't jazzed on some homophobic slurs being used eh)Also this cover is literally stunning I stared at it for 10 minutes before whispering, softly,  "exquisite"
The Saga series just gets even better with each volume. This one gives us some new characters, some exciting intrigue and more amazing and tantalising creatures. A must read for fans of graphic novels.
Up against it, this series makes cyborgs as interesting as watching paint dry.
You want to lose that thing or what?All Archer joking aside (and yes, that was totally for you Mara), Saga is a tremendous graphic novel series that continues to blow my hair back, my skirt up and my socks off.
But our heroes Marko and Alana, born to fight each other, raised to hate and want to kill the other, have fallen in love.
There's so much to love packed into this story -- the action, the heart, the energy and passion and tongue-in-cheek humor.
It could be just me but I really wish this books doesn't have any actions at all, the story gets better, characters are explored more but every time there's an action going on the art really made me feel detached.
Other than that everything is gorgeous, the world, the characters were well drawn and I love the ending to volume 3.
The series is good don't get me wrong, I just wish it's better than this seeing the raving reviews on it.
I hope the next book will change my opinion.
1/2/18 update: I keep thinking about this, and how much I can't wait to read the next one, which made me up my rating to 5 stars aha 26/1/18: I really enjoyed this and read it all in one sitting aha This is the only graphic novel series that I've managed to get interested in, and I have #4 on hold at the library ready to get picked up :D
5/5 stars ⭐⭐⭐⭐⭐I keep forgetting how quickly these go by! I sat down with the intention of reading half now, half later, but I ended up reading the entire thing in one sitting again! ♡
Events are building and characters are developing and it's pulling me right in.
People die and characters collide.
The story is epic.
I will say Lying cat gets a big smack down.
Each event simply leads to another question to be solved.I'm interested to know more about the computer head people.
We seem to be getting a little more about them, but only enough to keep the mystery alive.
When are they going to make this into a Netflix show?The art is still kicking ass and there seem to be no shortage of ideas for this story.
I can't even with this shit.
GOD I LOVE THIS SERIESalso why don't I have volume 4 yet I'm going to go through Saga withdrawal
6 stars!  Introduction:  YES! I finally got around to reading the third volume in Brian K. Vaughan’s FANTASTIC, AMAZING and UPLIFTING “Saga” series and man was this volume just as exciting and emotional as the previous two volumes (and that is saying something)! What is this story about?  After the events of the second volume, Marko, his mother and Alana ended up on the planet Quietus in order to meet the romance author D. Oswald Heist, who was responsible for writing the romance novel that bot
Unfortunately, the couple is still being pursued by the bounty hunter The Will who now has a new ally in Marko’s ex-fiancé Gwendolyn and the slave girl Sophie that The Will rescued in the previous volumes.
Vaughan seriously has the magic touch when it comes to writing this series as the characters just continue to be more interesting as the story goes on and the stakes are raised even higher for both Alana and Marko as they try to escape from the wars of their planets, but their pursuers become even more deadlier than before.
