https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/127226.Between_Past_and_Future
Arendt never ceases to impress me with the depth and clarity of her thought. Recommended to all.
Classic Arendt essay (written while she was writing The Human Condition, so the resemblance exists) in which she guides through ancient and modern histories only to have the final two pages rise up and slay.
The rest is history.[8: The Conquest of Space and the Stature of Man:] I found consistent themes in this essay that appeared in the final section ("The Vita Activa and the Modern Age") in The Human Condition, mainly her reference to Kafka's quote--"Man found the Archimedean point but he used it against himself; it seems that he was permitted to find it only under this condition").
Her interpretation of how he introduced the dualism of the will into philosophy is very insightful and brings out, to my mind, a very obvious omission in the ethical theories of Socrates, Plato and Aristotle, namely that they assumed that if a person knows what is right that person will also act on it.
This I found very refreshing, although I have found myself arguing that atheism is a religion.This and many more points are almost unnervingly contemporary and what this book shows is that Hannah Arendt must have been one of the essential minds in the last century.

Arendt's critique of Marx's "concept of history" is well worth checking out in this collection of essays.
Arent is brilliant and a badass woman with amazing style. She's iconic.
god she's good
For me, the word "authority" usually carries a negative connotation, i.e. the person or body who has power over you.
For Arendt, it seems that authority is not necessarily some person and not necessarily something negative.
The foundation was central to Roman thought, according to Arendt, and once something was founded, that meant that it would remain for all future generations, who would look back to it as an authority.
Notes from thesis: Arendt (1958) points out that, without citizenship, an opinion of an individual does not amount to much in the broader spectrum for those who are stateless, since their “plight is not that they are not equal before the law, but that no law exists for them” (p.
Without the recognition of a human being, the individual does not become a ‘person’ whose voice matters – but simply an irrelevant political being (Arendt, 1963).
These conflicts are the structure of our conscious lives, they are the tension between the past (our own and society at large) and the present and the source of everything produced creatively by humans.
This small non-time space at the very heart of time, unlike the world and the culture into which we are born, can only be indicated, but cannot be inherited and handed down from the past; each new generation, indeed every new human being as he inserts himself between an infinite past and an infinite future, must discover and ploddingly pave it anew.
For Arendt, performative action and the capacity to exercise judgment within the limits of the finite mark truly human activity that define what it means to have a history; in contrast, the modern age in its many guises seeks to obliterate judgment and action, and therefore history and culture through utopian political schemes, technological rationality and the reduction of the political to the social.These essays are strong enough to stand up to readings by people familiar with the history of philosophy and Arendt's contributions to twentieth century thought, but they would also be accessible to a general reader who knows something of Western culture, but is not steeped in phenomenology and hermeneutics.
For the most part (minus the essay on education), each essay stands up well for a twenty first century reader, as her diagnoses of the problems that beset the modern age have not gone away.
الفصل الذي يتناول مفهوم التاريخ شديد النقد للماركسية و فيه كثير الإحالات على الوضعية الأمريكية (وهذا من كلاسيكيات حنة آرندت).
خلاصة الجزء الرابع في أخطاء الأنسنيين عند محاولة البقاء داخل المنظومة الغربية دون دين و لا سلطة مدعاة للتفكيرالفصل المسائل لأزمة الثقافة يجيب على سبب عدم وجود مفهوم الأنسنة أو الثقافة لدى الحضارة الإغريقية و ظهورها في التقليد الروماني، وهو أهم فصل في الكتاب من حيث القدرة النأويلية و لهذا سمي به الكتاب.
j'aime surtout les chapitres sur l'histoire et l'autorité. ils m'ont bouleversé mes pensées là-dessus. néanmoins, à cause de mon niveau de la langue française, au niveau philosophique, je trouvais quelque lignes de pensées d'Arendt assez difficile à saisir... alors, selon moi il en necessite un bon connaissance de la philo avant d'entreprendre à lire/comprendre les textes!
I enjoy this obviously. A collection of essay which offers the reader more insight in how Arendt's theories can help us see problems with Being in Mass Society. Questions on freedom, science, culture, art, tradition and authority. I especially like her essay on Freedom, I think she really asks some provocative questions that challenge mainstream views and offer a more critical approach.
La crise de l'education sur le systeme scolaire americain est une revelation. ou comment depuis plus de 65 ans rien a change. le systeme les castes. un avant propos pour regarder autrement les teen movies
45 years after this edition was published, it seems we ignore both Arendt's main question--how do we negotiate the space between past and future?--but also the reasons why we can't always answer it (she would say "ever answer it") the way we traditionally have. Slowgoing but worth it.
My first time reading Arendt. I was quite taken with her essay on tradition and the impossibility of recovering the past, though as is often the case with mid-century continental writers, she seems to possess a superficial understanding of pragmatism.
Arendt é muito complexa e talvez uma das mais influentes e sábias pensadoras do séc. XX. A forma como discute teorias de Kant, Platão, Marx, etc é soberba.Um livro muito importante para se compreender a política e o mundo ao longo de séculos de história. Continua e irá continuar muito actual.
Stunning. Equal parts strong prose and intellectual rigour. Arendt's clarity of thought should be read, admired, and emulated. The chapter on truth and politics is easily worth the price of admission.
Fairly easy to follow, compared to most philosophers. She's got some great ideas about her, though I didn't agree with everything per se. My favorite chapter was definitely "The Crisis in Education."
This is a great book to begin with when approaching Arendt. The short essays are manageable, but insightful and controversial. Arendt herself even said it was her best work.
Don't miss her take on "The Crisis in Culture" and "Truth and Politics", both essays are a must when reading tomorrow's papers.
Between Past and Future: Six Exercises in Political Thought by Hannah Arendt (1961)
"The Concept of History," "What is Freedom?" and "End of Tradition"
Thoughtful, classically informed, essays that boast both strong rhetoric and strong scholarship.
Essais sur des sujets divers, dont ressortent surtout celui sur l'autorité, l'éducation et la liberté.
Get ready to read this more than once (or twice) for clarification of thoughts and ideas...
Only read the "Six Exercises" version.
Still need to read Truth and Politics.
If one looks at it from the standpoint of the individual child, his chances to rebel or to do anything on his own hook are practically nil; he no longer finds himself in a very unequal contest with a person who has, to be sure, absolute superiority over him but in contest with whom he can nevertheless count on the solidarity of other children, that is, of his own kind; rather he is in the position, hopeless by definition, of a minority of one confronted by the absolute majority of all the others.
