https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/64864.N_is_for_Noose
Book Review  3.5 out of 5 stars to N is for Noose, the 14th book in the "Kinsey Millhone" cozy mystery series, written in 1998 by Sue Grafton. When one of your own dies, it's hard enough. But when his widow begs for you to help solve the case, as she doesn't think her husband died of natural causes, you're in a tough spot. Especially when you have a feeling something dangerous is going on, your first instincts are always right. But Kinsey takes the case and soon finds herself embroiled in a ve
3.5 out of 5 stars to N is for Noose, the 14th book in the "Kinsey Millhone" cozy mystery series, written in 1998 by Sue Grafton.
But when his widow begs for you to help solve the case, as she doesn't think her husband died of natural causes, you're in a tough spot.
The series is still going strong.
Kinsey learns a lot along this path, as well as how to hide from the rest of the town when you are trying to help them out...
Another good one to read in the series.
here's the scoop: I read A LOT.
2.5★sOn the referral of her good friend Dietz, PI Kinsey Millhone left Carson City where she’d been caring for him post-surgery, and headed to Nota Lake in California.
Kinsey was going to interview a client about a prospective case, one which started off vague and confusing, and didn’t improve.
Her initial instinct had been to head straight home - looking back, she would have been much better off if she’d trusted her instinct, ignored Dietz’s referral and kept on driving…Kinsey’s investigation into the six weeks prior to Detective Tom Newquist’s death was instigated by his widow.
I think of her as Nancy Drew for big girls.HOWEVER....I have this bad habit, I guess, of noticing errors in books and it drives me nuts.
On page 124 - in the paperback - Kinsey goes to the Rainbow to talk to Nancy at Alice's suggestion: "I ate a BLT on wheat toast and thenchatted idly with Nancy while she rang up my bill.
I already knew what she had to say, but I quizzed her nonetheless, making sure Alice had reported accurately".Then on page 150, Kinsey goes into the restaurant with Rafer and when Nancy waits on them he says, "You met Kinsey?" And she says, "Not formally, but I know who she is.
And because I'm still irritated with her, I'll offer you several reasons why.-We're reminded in every single book that Kinsey is one of those women who doesn't understand makeup and hair fixin', to the point of "cutting her own hair with nail scissors." She owns one "All Purpose Dress" and if something in her life requires more than this, she's out of her element and has to ask for help.
Pick a side or STFU already.-And the biggest thing that has irritated me throughout this entire series is Kinsey's assertion that she isn't a people person and loves her life of solitude.
Though it had a compelling enough mystery, the ending was terrible.
I know, going into a Grafton that the protagonist will be in grave danger at the end of the story...
it's just a trope Grafton follows.
However, the danger she is in usually makes some kind of logical sense within the confines of the story.
It was kind of explained, but there was never a clear wrap-up, so it was unclear if that was what had actually happened or if it was just what Kinsey thought happened.
Basically the nonsensical ending ruined an otherwise decent mystery.
Different structure, certainly an amusing ending. I like this Kinsey adventure but I was also glad when it was over. Had me reaching for the next one (almost every one does) but I was happy this particular cast of characters I wouldn't have to read about any more.
Go back to the beginning of the alphabet.My longer take is that I enjoy this series but I don't understand what I did wrong to deserve to read this title exactly when I did.I'm typing this review with a splint on my "s" finger.
It just happened to be the next letter in the alphabet from the last time I picked up a Kinsey Millhone novel.I like these books because, like me, Kinsey jogs and then comes home and eats junk food.
So glad this book is over!
One of the worst books I have ever read.
The characters were flat and nearly unemotional.
There was absolutely no plot.
The story just drug on indefinitely.
This was no page turner.
Ugg now I have to read the next few because someone gave them to me.
There is no way I would ever spend my money of any of these books.
This book is something that you just endure and get it over with, not enjoy.
I I could quit a book in the middle this one would be it.
DISCLAIMER...
Kinsey Millhone is my favorite character ever and I couldn't find fault with a Sue Grafton book even if the alternative was a root canal.
Having said that, it should come as no surprise that I loved 'N'.
I read 'M' in a pre-published form so it's been nearly two years since I've had a chance to visit with Kinsey - way too long.
She picks up a client who's husband is quite dead by natural causes (heart attack).
But, the wife wants to know what was bothering him before he died.
I'll love every one of these right through 'Z'.
Kinsey works a case for the widow of a dedicated cop.
The widow doesn't question her husband's death, but she's curious what he was working on during his final weeks.
The case becomes more complicated when Kinsey discovers the cop may have been onto something, and someone doesn't want Kinsey to know what.
The 14th Kinsey Millhone mystery in Grafton's alphabet series.
This is another out of town job for Kinsey.
Once again, the locals aren't keen on an outsider questioning the locals.
This one seemed a bit slow, but I still enjoy this series.
Kinsey is smart and independent, with a sarcastic humor.
Really enjoyed this one. Definitely one of her better ones.
I love the Sue Grafton Kinsey Milhone books and the alphabet series.
N for Noose is a fun easy read.
3) They may contain bad words and have mistakes.
Sue Grafton's Alphabet series fills the bill perfectly.
I look forward to reading them.
I could never get enough of the alphabet series fast enough for my amount of reading (or listening).
I know I enjoyed it and look forward to reading another book in the series.
The series is a fun easy read, mixed with some mystery, and Kinsey Milhone is likeable.
I wish she had written more books.

4.5 StarsThis was really good, and old Kinsey wasn't so bitchy. Probably because she was scared. Kinsey is getting to close to the truth and the killer is none too happy about it. Nice pacing after the initial set-up; and before you can spur Kinsey on, things get a little scary. I didn't see this one initially; but had an inkling mid-way through, had it taken away and then confirmed.
N is for Nothing happens.I gave this book two stars only for the writing style. Otherwise, there were no characters whom I could find interesting and the plot was not much eventful. I will start reading T is for trespass cause it has been in my to-read pile of books for months and I hope will like it.
A complex plot for Kinsey Millhone in this book, working for the wife of recently deceased and troubled detective, she starts to uncover what was troubling him. A sense of menace is present from halfway through the book, leading to a dangerous ending to the book. Great series.
It’s a comfortable fit.This time around, Kinsey Milhone, former cop turned private detective, takes a side journey to the small California mountain town of Nota Lake where a well-loved and highly respected member of the sheriff’s department, Tom Newquist, has recently passed away from a heart attack.
But it doesn’t take Kinsey too long to find out that Tom had been investigating a murder with ties to her home town of Santa Teresa.
The widow of a small town policeman asks Kinsey Millhone to find the reason for her husbands fretfulness and ill-ease just before he dies of a heart attack.
Kinsey's search puts her in harms way and only through skilful questioning and deduction does she arrive at the answers she seeks and escapes a final deadly encounter with the guilty party.The story moves fairly quickly but there is a lack of tension and excitement until the final chapter where Kinsey once again survives to rule the day.On the whole this book is not up to the standards I have come to expect from Sue Grafton but I still look forward to her next mystery "O is for Outlaw".
I honestly didn't find this book too memorable.
The parts that stick out to me are the relationship with Dietz and the small town she investigates her mystery in.
I found the relationship with Dietz sort of soured for me in this book.
And as for the town Nota Lake - how they treat her is something that speaks to that deep fear in a person.
I think anyone who has been in a small town and felt the word STRANGER on their forehead can relate to that part of the book.
Sad.Edited 2.2.17I enjoy these books; although, they never rate super high on my list I still find myself wanting to read the next one. I love the way Mary Peiffer reads these books and wouldn't be able to listen to her read anything else, because she IS the main character lol.
(By now, she’s up to Y is for Yesterday.) I found myself wondering if by this far into the series, Grafton may assume all her readers already get what Kinsey is all about and bring her baggage with them from previous volumes.
As a newbie to the series, I felt a bit like Kinsey presumably felt on arrival in the little California backwoods town of Nota Lake (population 2,356): a bit clueless.
And given our view of Kinsey, she doesn’t do a lot to make us care a lot when Nota Lake goes after her.I was generally a bit puzzled or confused about other characters, too.
You won't be able too, Sure it makes sense but the clues mislead you and aren't plentiful enough to grasp.The long anwser is "Takes deap breath"(view spoiler)[ "Exhales because he need more air then one breath"Ok, so it's been revealed that Tom knew that someone very close to him had murdered two people that he was hunting because someone saw his notes, he knows who it was but he wouldn't tell any one for some reason.
I was really enjoying this one, I liked the way that Sue Grafton made Kinsey feel very out of kilter.
The character's sense of disconcertion and bewilderment was very, very real.
This was a real mystery.
One Kinsey just could not solve.And it was all working well until the end...Then, it broke down like a Landrover on a bush track.
but I digress...The denouement on this is just too quick and too much is left to the epilogue to tie up loose ends.
Indeed, it was almost as if Grafton had a certain number of pages to write in her contract, realised she'd written a little more than intended and had to tie things up very quickly.
OMG this book has even less redeemable characters than M is for Malice.
Even though I wasn’t thrilled with any of the characters it did have two things going for it that I enjoyed better than M is for Malice.
I love watching her deal with strangers and strange locations because it allows the author to really showcase Kinsey’s skills as an investigator.
Not only is Kinsey in a strange location but in a very hostile work environment where no one likes her or her client.
Overall a better book to me than the last one.
This is one of my favorite in the series. Judy Kaye, as always, does an amazing job performing this book. She is Kinsey to me. The only downside is that it is abridged. I wish Random House would have Judy Kaye record all of these unabridged.
This one seemed a bit slower than the others. But it did eventually find its pace. Almost had me at the end, but then Kinsey wouldn't let that happen!
Kinsey, I feel you man. Work is stressful.
Not a fan. Not just of this book, but the series as a whole. Don't recommend.
✭✭✭½
Poor Kinsey gets the stuffing knocked out of her in this one, but its a fun ride!
