https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/302625.Nemesis
Nemesis, Isaac Asimov Nemesis is a science fiction novel by American writer Isaac Asimov.
One of his later science fiction novels, it was published in 1989, three years before his death.
او مجازات کننده ی عاشقان بی‌وفا، قانون‌ شکنان و مغروران نیز بوده، آسیموف نمسیس را برای نخستین بار به سال 1989 به اتمام رساند، کتاب با عنوانهای: «الهه‌ ی انتقام» و «ملکه ی انتقام» منتشر شده‌ است.
My first read of Isaac Asimov's work. It was a mind opening experience, for someone who hadn't read a science fiction work of a grand master level. It is a stand alone novel, and it has no special distinctive idea (unlike Foundation series or Robot series), but the writing style is definitely Asimov's (Of course I can only say this after I've read his other works). Nowadays I reluctant to rate Asimov's fictions full 5 star because his execution in storytelling is not so good, tend to be boring in long novels. I prefer his shorter stories for maximum pleasure.
Who would learn to read the trends and foresee the future in a whole Galaxy teeming with humanity?Nemesis had indeed come.”When they ask me why I love Asimov, I tend to answer something like, “Because he wrote the most alive robots I've ever seen.” And that's true, that's surely part of the reason.
And Asimov had an uncanny knack for capsulizing this simple but astronomically deep truth in the form of stories, which is just about the most magical thing in the world.Even though it happens sometimes that I don't like some specific detail in one of Asimov's books, be it a part of the plot, or a character or some other trifle (and in Nemesis there were some, but to me they don't even matter) this thing about this writer always stays true, and I always can see the greater scheme behind his stories.
- this book has a nice mixture of male and female characters from various racial backgrounds - and you can read how they woodenly interact with each other unconvincingly3) Good Balance between Ideas and Action...
- the author knew he would have to carefully balance the mind-blowing ideas that the book would need to contain with gripping action and thrilling drama - and the author neglected to tend to this, but luckily the audiobook producers took the time to create an abridged text for narration4) Good Overcomes Evil...
A brand new standalone story from the grand master of science fiction must have set fandom ablaze back in 1989 but comparatively prodigious length aside this offered nothing new in the Asimov canon aside from perhaps the authors approach towards things as he faced his impending death.It's the story of Earth's early space travel, as settlers look beyond an Earth teeming with billions of unhappy people to new stars via space habitats built for a limited number (in this case 60k) of inhabitants.
This book is the ultimate distillation of every (6 or so) of the fictional Asimov books I've read:-- great minds get together and have lengthy discussions based on what they should do based on limited knowledge, and somehow everyone unanimously agrees on the logical course of action-- some weird mystical thing occurs that flies in the face of science or contradicts something he's already stated as a premise in the book
I am sad to think that there are people who have never read Asimov who pick up this book, and then swear off all of his works because this book was SO.
If you enjoy the subject matter, great, but I really hate plots that are driven by pages and pages of conversation between two people who come to a huge revelation, some glaring fact, or solution JUST by sitting there babbling at each other.*The scientists of earth and rotor and the men who love them.
Could Asimov just work ANY harder to create more repetitive boring characters?Repetition - Yes, marlena is ugly but really smart and can read body language and is weird.
Nemesis, a red-star threat...to earthlings.The usage of arevolutionary concept:a superluminal spacecraft...to solve the problem. Another concept in the book: hyperspace.Future Vision, back in 1989.Just when, two days ago, a team of CERN,has announced that neutrinos (sub-atomic particles) can travel above the speed of light...well,somewhere Einstein must be reviewing some chapters of his Relativity Theory.[Review of Dec 20, 2011].
Definitely not Asimov's best.
Sin embargo, algo del libro me ha hecho recordar el planeta Gaia en "Fundación y Tierra" y siendo este libro el comienzo de la colonización espacial no encuentro motivos para descartar la idea (aunque sea sólo para mí) de que estén conectadas con las otras series de Asimov.En el siglo XXIII la Tierra se encuentra superpoblada, existen colonias espaciales llamadas "Establecimientos" en las órbitas de la Tierra, la Luna, Marte y el cinturón asteroidal suficientemente grandes para albergar varios miles de personas.
Una de las colonias, Rotor, emprende un viaje hacia una estrella enana roja llamada Némesis a dos añoz luz de distancia.
Solid science fiction novel from Isaac Asimov, though I would expect nothing less. It could easily be inserted into his Foundation universe and act as the origin story since the plot is about humanity leaving Earth for the very first time. While I wouldn't recommend this book as an introduction to the author's work, it is a standalone and could be picked up whenever. Some of the characters were a little flat and the technical dialogue could drag on at times, but overall I really enjoyed the concept and the story that went along with it.
Özellikle Vakıf dizisini okuyanlar için vakıfvari bir nostalji olacaktır. Vakıfta gördüğünüz tüm teknolojilerin öncüllerine bu kitapta rastlayabilirsiniz.
Asimov is a damn good storyteller!
আমি বাজি ধরে বলতে পারি মুজাই এ বইটি পড়েছেন এবং "নয় নয় শূনয তিন"-এর এককোষী পরাণী মিলে মসতিষকের মত বিশাল বুদধিমান সততবার আইডিয়া এখান থেকেই ধার করেছেন। এবং খুবই অলপ পরিসরে "টরাইটন একটি গরহের নাম"-এর পুরো গরহই একক জীবিত বুদধিমান সততবার আইডিয়া পেলেও পেতে পারেন। শুধু আইডিয়াটুকুই। তিনটি বইয়ের টোটাল পলট ভিনন ভিনন।
আমি বাজি ধরে বলতে পারি মুজাই এ বইটি পড়েছেন এবং "নয় নয় শূন্য তিন"-এর এককোষী প্রাণী মিলে মস্তিষ্কের মত বিশাল বুদ্ধিমান সত্ত্বার আইডিয়া এখান থেকেই ধার করেছেন। এবং খুবই অল্প পরিসরে "ট্রাইটন একটি গ্রহের নাম"-এর পুরো গ্রহই একক জীবিত বুদ্ধিমান সত্ত্বার আইডিয়া পেলেও পেতে পারেন। শুধু আইডিয়াটুকুই। তিনটি বইয়ের টোটাল প্লট ভিন্ন ভিন্ন।
However, it was subsequently mentioned in his Forward the Foundation, published the year after his death.In the 23rd century, humanity is divided between the Earth and station habitats throughout the Solar System.
It moves to the red dwarf star Nemesis about two light-years from Earth, but unknown there because it exists behind a dust cloud.
15-year-old Marlene Fisher was only a baby on Rotor when she and her astronomer mother left the Solar System and her father behind.
Κλείνει με ατάκα κλεμμένη από ταινία και αυτό και μόνο αρκεί για να πέσει η βαθμολογία στα τάρταρα αλλά όπως προείπα δεν είναι μόνο αυτό... Πρώτη φορά που διάβασα Asimov και απογοητεύτηκα πολύ.
A teenage girl on the colony begins to develop a rapport with a local lifeform, while on Earth, her father seeks ways to find the colony and make a family again.This is one of the last of Isaac Asimov's solo novels, and I'm sorry to say it's not his best.
This time, however, clarity isn't enough to carry the story.As always with Asimov, the science is credible, though he stretches the point with Nemesis' local lifeform.
Başlangıçta Vakıf Evreni'ne dahil olan bir eser olmadığı için kitaptan hoşlanmamıştım ama kitabı bitirdiğimde kitabı tam olarak Vakıf Evreni'ne dahil edemesemde Vakıf Evreni'nde cevaplanmayan bazı soruları yanıtladığını farkettiğim için kitabı çok iyi buldum.
İlk dəfə 1989- cu ildə nəşr olunmuş I. Asimov romanı olan Nemesis, Günəş sisteminə min illər sonra təhlükə yaratmaq potensialında olan Nemesis adlı, qırmızı cırtdan tipində ulduzun kəşfi ilə bəşəriyyətin sistemi tərk etmə düşüncəsi və bunu həyata keçirmədəki əngəl olan kosmik sürət limitinin aşılmasından bəhs edir. Dünyadan kənar kiçik koloniyalar sistemi tərk etməyi problem olaraq görmürlər, əksinə Dünya sakinləri uzun müddət bu fikrə qarşı çıxırlar. Şahəsəri sayılan "Vakıf" ilə eyni kainatda olmadığını israr edən yazara rəğmən, mən əlaqələndirərək oxudum. Və belə düşünməyim daha xoş təsir etdi. Bir də "Vakıf" dakı Gaia planeti və sakinlərinin ibtidai nümunəsini də sezmək çətin deyil.
Anche se questo romanzo viene menzionato in "Fondazione anno zero": Hari Seldon infatti cita una leggenda che riguarda una giovane donna «capace di comunicare con un intero pianeta che ruotava attorno ad un sole chiamato Nemesis.» E anche nel finale del libro, Asimov accenna brevemente al suo famoso ciclo della Fondazione: Janus Pitt si chiede infatti «Chi avrebbe imparato a interpretare le tendenze e a prevedere il futuro in una galassia brulicante d'umanità?», un chiaro riferimento alla psicostoria.Il nome Nemesis è un riferimento ad un'ipotetica stella compagna del Sole, che si troverebbe in un'orbita larghissima: ogni qualche decina di milioni di anni Nemesis passerebbe attraverso la nube di Oort perturbando l'orbita di migliaia di comete, alcune delle quali finirebbero per cadere sulla Terra provocando una catastrofica estinzione di massa.
Not so in the case of Nemesis, a beautifully crafted and blissfully short jaunt into a future that not only seems possible, but invokes all the modern-day science documentaries we all love to watch but will rarely admit to enjoying.
Nemesis is set at a time when humans have, to a large extent, begun to colonize space.
Not other planets, but rather the space between those planets in the solar system in large constructed settlements.
The upside is, however, that you really don't have to be a seasoned reader of his other more notable works in order to enjoy this singular story.
But by the end of it, you realize two things: a) "Oh THAT'S why I stopped dating her!" and/or b) "We've gone two different ways; we just wouldn't get along now."Maybe I'll finally try to finish the parts of the Foundation Series that I never got to, but if I don't, I think I'll be fine with just having read Nemesis one last time.
I remember liking this book a lot when I was 12-13, I was a great Asimov and J.K. Rowling fan at that time :P.
The best points of the book, rather, the best point is character construction, though if I am to refer to Garabet Ibraileanu's Adela, which I've been forced to read and yes, I do hold a grudge, ''females are always more interested in such aspects.
As expected, normal people intensely dislike the prospect of being stripped bare of their masks and mostly stay away, too.
(Here for American weird concepts, there are people who actually take pleasure in being alone.)
I like the concept of this book and some of the scientific ideas in it.
One settlement called Rotor has two discoveries which quickly send it ahead of the rest.I'll stop so I avoid spoilers, but Asimov seems to have had some difficulty bringing this particular plot to a climax.
This may have been because Asimov shows what is happening with both sides of the story-- both Earth-centric and Rotor-centric-- which means that there are fewer surprises for the reader.As I said, I found this interesting, but I think there might be more that he could have done with the concepts.
Asimov mentions in Nemesis's foreword that Nemesis is not in the same timeline as the Foundation, Empire and Robot series, altough he admits that he might eventually write a book that ties this one to those series.
Daneel mentions that "a long time ago, there was a girl on a distant system called Nemesis that had similar mental abilities".
I had Nemesis on the bookshelf for a long while, but once I read that comment by R.
A subtle, yet strong hint about the similar problems in real Earth at the time of the writing.
This is a mostly escapist novel of intergalactic exploration and alien contact. Asimov generally weaves a good story, and this one is full of characters who are self-consciously making history. Once he mentioned that he never edits his work, and this could definitely have used some editing. Occasionally, mostly in the beginning, he gets pedantic and repetitious. But you keep turning the pages, just so you can find out what happens.
Asimov is able to weave complex and engrossing stories without relying on violence. He dares to imagine a future shaped not by weapons but by the ingenuity of the human mind.
Asimov rimane uno dei miei scrittori preferiti di science-fiction ma questo romanzo non mi ha convinto del tutto e non lo ritengo al livello di quelli più famosi appartenenti al ciclo della fondazione ed al ciclo dei robot.Il tema del romanzo è interessante: una stella sconosciuta, che sarà battezzata Nemesis, si sta avvicinando al Sistema Solare e nel giro di 5000 anni potrebbe distruggerlo.
Nel timore, però, che si scateni una fuga incontrollata di tutti gli abitanti del Sistema Solare, decidono di partire senza avvertire gli altri del pericolo e cercando di non lasciare tracce nel timore di essere seguiti e di dover combattere per la sopravvivenza.
পৃথিবীর জনসংখযা যে ভাবে বাড়ছে কখনো কি মাথায় চিনতা এসেছে যে আজ থেকে ১০০ বছর পরে কি হবে? নেমেসিস বইটাতে মূলত জনসংখযা রিলেটেড পরবলেম দিয়েই শুরু হয়েছে। ২২০০ সালের দিকের কথা। যখন কিনা মানুষ মহাশূনযে সেটেলমেনট তৈরী করা শুরু করেছে। কারন? কারন পৃথিবীতে এত মানুষের জায়গা দিতে অপারগ। পৃথিবী বসবাসের জনয অনেকটাই দুষিত। এমনই একটা সেটেলমেনটের নাম হল রোটার। তবে অনয সব সেটেলমেনটের তুলনায় এটা আলাদা হওয়ার কারন এটার বিজঞানীরা আলফা সেনটরি ( বলা হয়ে থাকে এটা পৃথিবীর নিকট তম নকষতর) এর চেয়ে কাছে আরেকটা নকষতর খুজে পেয়েছ
পৃথিবীর জনসংখ্যা যে ভাবে বাড়ছে কখনো কি মাথায় চিন্তা এসেছে যে আজ থেকে ১০০ বছর পরে কি হবে?
নেমেসিস বইটাতে মূলত জনসংখ্যা রিলেটেড প্রবলেম দিয়েই শুরু হয়েছে। ২২০০ সালের দিকের কথা। যখন কিনা মানুষ মহাশূন্যে সেটেলমেন্ট তৈরী করা শুরু করেছে। কারন?
There was a lot of technical things in the book that got a little boring.
The whole organism thing was cool and being able to talk to Marlene, and even though the ending was good the plot was kind of anti-climactic.
What I really like in books is when there is an explanation or description that really creates an image and there was very little of this in Nemesis, there was so much technical stuff.
