https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/275470.The_Haunted_Looking_Glass

A wonderful collection of ghost stories.If you have Dickens "The Signalman" and M. R. James "The Casting of the Runes" included, then you know you are on to a winner.Highly recommended... HAPPY CHILLS!
My favorite stories were M.R. James' "Casting the Runes" and E. Nesbit's "Man-Size in Marble," although the latter was a bit sad -- I liked her newlyweds so much that I really wanted them to have a happy ending. I could've read a ghost-free novel about them writing and painting and studying folklore and being sweet in their odd little cottage. Kind of a funny coincidence: I felt the same way about Patricia McKillip's short story The Kelpie, which also featured turn-of-the-century artistic types.
Designed to induce dread and provoke horripilation rather than send you screaming into the night, this is a reissue of Edward Gorey’s 1959 selection of favourite ghost stories – each prefaced by its own pen-and-ink Gorey illustration.
The book contains a host of familiar classics from Dickens’s poignant The Signalman, (look out for the vintage BBC version) to M.R. James’s masterful Casting the Runes (inspiration for one of my all-time favourite Halloween movies Night of the Demon) to Jacobs’s eerie The Monkey’s Paw alongside offerings from writers such as R.H. Malden, L.P. Hartley and E.
Ghosts, ghouls and Gorey what more could anyone want as the nights draw in and firesides beckon?
I just received a replacement copy for the missing-who-knows-how-long hardcover from my collection. Guess what I'm looking forward to for All Hallow's Read? Perfect!personal copy
It begins with explorers in a haunted house, and over 250 pages manages to cover much of the breadth of late Victorian English ghost stories.Each tale is definitely unique.
Not all so captured me, but as I said, variety is the key here, and something is bound to appeal to everyone.My personal favorites were probably Harvey's "August Heat" and James' "Casting the Runes", on opposite ends of the book, nicely pulling me in and leading me out.
An excellent collection of ghostly tales, gathered together by the immensely popular artist and master of the macabre, Edward Gorey. Gorey sketched an illustration for each story, thus making this superb collection a must for every lover of a good scary story, and certainly any collector of Gorey's art.
I just read and was mesmerized by Edward Gorey's book, The Willowdale Handcar, and had to find another. This book has is a collection of stories he chose and illustrated. I had only read one before (The Monkey's Paw) and there were several works by other famous authors -Charles Dickens, E. Nesbit, Bram Stoker, Robert Louis Stevenson. I would describe the stories as classic gothic- lots of haunted houses and ghosts. The Illustrations were typical creeper Gorey. Would make a terrific Halloween reading".. every word of this story is true as despair.."
This was a good read. The stories weren't terribly long and I passed the autumn day away reading. The stories are older or they have an old quality about them. They're thrilling in a different sense, I suppose, than horror books that are produced nowadays. My favorites are "The Empty House" and "The Dream Woman". I also enjoyed reading "The Signalman" which I had previously heard as an audio-recording. The recording was called "Classic Ghost Stories" and all of the works had been written either by Charles Dickens or M.R. James, my favorite of which is "The Mezzotint".
A selection of ghost stories by the likes of Algernon Blackwood, Charles Dickens, Bram Stoker, Robert Louis Stevenson, Wilkie Collins, etc., all selected by Edward Gorey. What's NOT to love?Excellent collection of gothic Victorian ghost stories - it's the perfect read for late fall / early winter nights.
I really enjoyed this collection of Ghost Stories, which includes works by Charles Dickens, Bram Stoker, Robert Louis Stevenson, M. R. James, and others.There were several that I have read many, many times over the years, which were well worth a repeat read, and, best of all, I did discover a few new to me gems that I loved, such as "August Heat".Highly recommended to anyone in search of a quick & creepy Halloween read.
Exquisite ghost stories from the masters. Fun pinning out which modern horror writers read (and borrowed from) which master or mistress. And there is no beating Gorey's illustrations.
These stories work so hard to bring the horror.
The collection includes three of my favourite tales - 'Casting the Runes' by M.R. James, 'The Signalman' by Charles Dickens, and 'The Monkey's Paw' by W.W. Jacobs.
Other favourites and new discoveries (for me) were 'The Empty House' by Algernon Blackwood, 'August Heat' by W.F. Harvey, 'The Shadow of a Shade' by Tom Hood, and 'The Body Snatcher' by R.L. Stevenson.
All the stories were good though.
What makes this collection extra special is that the tales are chosen by Edward Gorey, a fantastic illustrator who captures humour alongside a creeping sense of horror in his work.
Each story has a title page which includes an illustration connected with the tales which capture their creepiness perfectly.
Wonderfully chilling book. These are all horror classics, stories that I've seen referenced or parodied by modern writers, but never read in the original. Except for the Dickens story (I've never enjoyed Dickens), each one was thoroughly absorbing. The number of Gorey illustrations is the only disappointing part - there's only one per story and some of them really don't do justice to the spine-tingling qualities of the story they depict. Fabulous collection!
I can't think of a book that has brought me more pleasure. These stories are very English and very direct. The ghosts featured in this story aren't shy about making their presence known. But what I loved about these stories was the sharp contrast between the warm cozy indoors of the parlor, library or club compared to the wet and gloomy atmosphere outdoors. I will definitely be seeking out more stories by some of these lesser-known (to me anyway) authors, particularly Algernon Blackwell.
Boo! Scary good collection of ghost stories, with unsettling illustrations by Edward Gorey. Very few I hadn't read before, but features two of my all-time favorites ("The Signalman" and "The Monkey's Paw"), two of the best by Bram Stoker and M. R. James ("The Judge's House" and "Casting the Runes"), plus good ones by E. Nesbit and Robert Louis Stevenson, and two creepy ones I'd never heard of ("August Heat" by W.F. Harvey, and "The Thirteenth Tree" by R.H. Malden). Eek!
Writing masters and a master artist from an earlier age, when horror came from innermost fears not visual splatter. Wonderful combination.
Good old-fashioned ghost stories with fabulous illustrations by Gorey. Read them during the day.
Very interesting and well-rounded collection of stories. Slight disappointment in that each story only got one illustration by Gorey. His name was the only reason I picked up the book.
A set of fun gothic horror stories with a picture by Edward Gorey for each one. I might have to track down one or two of the authors to see what else they've done.
***.Gorey selected his favorite ghost stories for this collection, and provided an illustration for each one.
I am not a fan of ghost or horror stories, so many of them went over my head.
Gorey’s illustrations in many case seemed to have nothing to do with the story they accompanied, but I learned that this was typical of his work.
Stories are included by well-known (to me) writers, like Dickens, R.
It’s a good way to pick up on less known writers, though, and should be of interest to those looking for new sources in this genre.
What an odd little volume!
I picked this up in a second hand store a while ago, and found it intriguing.
Edward Gorey chose the stories, and charmingly illustrated the title page of each.
However, as an anthology it totally fails: there's no forward, no introductions, no afterward, no context whatsoever for why the stories were chosen and presented as such.
Most of the stories were from the 19th century, but not all, and there's no reason given for that choice.
Almost all of the stories are by white, British men.
The story by Charles Dickens was surprisingly dull.
An expert collection of ghost stories chosen gay one of the absolute greats. The classics--Blackwood, Dickens, Stevenson, James, &c.--are well-represented and are all complete successes. Some lesser known favorites include W.F. Harvey's succinct but deeply unsettling "August Heat", L.P. Hartley's nightmarish "A Visitor from Down Under", and E. Nesbit's petrifying "Man-Size in Marble". Gorey's illustrations are as gorgeous and moody as they always have been, perfectly complementing the shadowy tone of the narrative. Classic ghost stories and classic illustrations make for a truly classic anthology.
A collection of spooky stories with some superbly creepy Gorey illustrations: what’s not to love?
My favorite story was the one about the ghost who had to take a bus back from his haunting. I was initially disappointed in Gorey's illustrations although actually a handful of them are very good.
I did not enjoy this one as much as Roahl Dahl's collection but it was appropriately spooky and good Rainy October read.
I really enjoyed this collection of stories. Favourites were August Heat, The Judge's House, The Shadow of a Shade and Casting the Runes. Really good collection of spookiness.
My favourites ( which I list for future rereads) were:August HeatThe Shadow of a Shade Man-Size In MarbleThe SignalmanThe Thirteenth TreeThe BodysnatcherThe Monkey's Paw
The Empty House by Algernon Blackwood - This story is excellent.
A man and his mother brave a haunted house for a night.
It is mysterious and open ended, which I like.August Heat by W.F. Harvey - A strange tale thst kept making me think of that dancing frog from Looney tunes.The Signalman by Charles Dickens - Kind of makes you wonder about fate.
It's ironic.A Visitor from Down Under by L.P. Hartley - Has an interesting opening scene, but then becomes pretty standard ghost from the grave.The Monkey's Paw by W.W. Jacobs - Be careful what you wish for.
A classic style tale that doesn't really have any ghosts, but has magical spirits and some suspense.
