https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/12207.Robert_Frost_s_Poems
I had read some of his poems, like "Mending the wall" and "the snowstorm", but not all of them, until now.
Now I understand better.I just love and admire his farmland poetry, it reminds me of so many things of my own young life in the countryside (in Austria though).
His variety of style keeps you reading wthout relent.
I think that many of his poems could be developed into novels, if written out, there is so much material and potential.This is one of the poetry books I will keep on my bedside table, like Emily Dickinson, Li Po, Kippling,
Me tapino: nella mia ossessione vetero-adolescenziale per l’innovazione quando non sperimentazione a tutti i costi, ho sempre seguito quella tonante vulgata per cui Robert Frost… chi me lo fa fare di leggere un poeta nato vecchio e che scriveva in maniera classica mentre suoi conterranei emigrati come Pound ed Eliot rivoluzionavano l’arte della poesia?A parte il dilemma su cosa vuol dire “scrivere in maniera classica", argomento insidioso che diventa pernicioso nel caso di Frost, che solo in superficie sembra classico; dicevo, a parte questo dilemma, arrivo solo ora da buon miserabile ultimo a leggere Frost, anche grazie a un saggio letto pochi mesi fa di Iosif Brodskij che mi ha aiutato a scoperchiare questo vaso di Pandora che è la poesia dell’americano, letteralmente piena di ogni male sebbene presentata alla subdola maniera di un uomo pacifico e flemmatico.Dunque mi ero perso Frost, e mi ero perso tantissimo.Schematizzando in maniera forse troppo estrema, credo che si possa dividere la sua opera non tanto in base alle raccolte (che mostrano sempre grande continuità e coerenza, stilistica e tematica, dalla prima all’ultima), ma più semplicemente in base alla lunghezza delle singole poesie.
I was impressed by the wide range of topics Frost wrote poems about. Some of the poems read like short stories; one of them had a Poe feel to it.In all honesty, I bought this poetry collection solely for The Road Not Taken, but there were quite a lot of good poems in this one.
His over-familiarity has given a false image of him; people think he wrote Hallmark cards.
Reading his poetry closely is a fascinating education.
He is one of the darkest, most illusive American writers in some moods; in others, he is cynical and enigmatic.
If you appreciate poetry, read Frost.
If all you know is "The Road Not Taken" and you think Frost is an artless hack writing verse to be framed on the walls of middlebrow homes, read his collected works (and read that particular poem closely).
He is the American author who, despite his ubiquity, deserves the most reassessment.
Pocket Books: 1971 (29th printing):My first introduction to Robert Frost came in high school, specifically “The Road Not Taken” and “Stopping by Woods on a Snowy Evening.” These are his two most famous poems and probably most people have some familiarity with them.
I came to understand later that I didn’t like poetry with facile rhymes or that simply pointed out an observation, thought or feeling that I already knew well from my own experience.
Because Frost’s poetry spoke of what I would describe as mundane reality, I just never pursued his work further.
To those of you who are interested in writing poetry and want to study Frost for that reason, I’d suggest a collection with no commentary.
Pocket Books: 1971 (29th printing):My first introduction to Robert Frost came in high school, specifically “The Road Not Taken” and “Stopping by Woods on a Snowy Evening.” These are his two most famous poems and probably most people have some familiarity with them.
I came to understand later that I didn’t like poetry with facile rhymes or that simply pointed out an observation, thought or feeling that I already knew well from my own experience.
Because Frost’s poetry spoke of what I would describe as mundane reality, I just never pursued his work further.
To those of you who are interested in writing poetry and want to study Frost for that reason, I’d suggest a collection with no commentary.
Two roads diverged in a yellow wood,And sorry I could not travel bothAnd be one traveler, long I sto
Is Robert Frost my favorite poet ever? Possibly, yes, he very well could be. This collection of Frost poems has me pulling it off the shelf every time I need a friend. It doesn't matter what he writes about, it is always welcoming and approachable. He's got that intrigue in his words that never lets go. He always has some wisdom to share, and he makes me feel like he cares about those who are reading his poems.
Happiness makes up in height for what it lacks in length.
This little piece of Wild Grapes made the entire read worthwhile for me: "...
I had not taken the first step in knowledge; I had not learned to let go with the hands, as still I have not learned to with the heart, and have no wish to with the heart - nor need, that I can see.
The mind - is not the heart.
I may yet live, as I know others live, to wish in vain to let go with the mind - of cares, at night, to sleep; but nothing tells me that I need learn to let go with the heart."
I was expecting something else. There is not much substance to most of it and failed to see the appeal. Barely a handful of poems which held my attention. Maybe because I was expecting it to be existential, deeper and not simply naturalistic or imagery which was without far reaching metaphors. Even the rhymes seemed forced at places and without much rhythm. Honestly don't know where to place it among my likings on the likes of Thoreau's naturalistic works and Rumi/Gibran/Khayyam's profound existential poetry. This is something else and doesn't seem like my type.
Though many may think of Frost as something of a nature poet, being known most for his poems like 'Stopping by Woods on a Snowy Evening,' or 'The Road Not Taken,' his talents and expertise range far beyond being well-versed in country things.
His final note at the collection's end tells readers of the epitaph that Frost wrote for his own grave stone: "I had a lover's quarrel with the world." Though he admits his own turbulence with life, for surely the poet's life was plagued with tragedies both known and untold, reading his poetry fills me with a certainty that I haven't found elsewhere in literature.
I have to give Robert Frost his due as one of America's iconic poets, but overall his poetry is difficult for me to get into. I do admire the breadth of his writing, though, and there were many delightful verses scattered throughout this collection that I could not help but underline. And of course The Road Not Taken remains a classic, I don't care who you are.
Love Frost, so touching in his simplicity and description of everyday life
There's a reason this man is considered the greatest American poet to ever live. I can't even give anyone a proper explanation of why this is such a great book. Read it and find out.

But I have promised to keep, and miles to go before I sleep l, and miles to go before I sleep.”I bought this book as something to read Margot while she was in the womb, and when she used to sit still.
I had to read and reread many times.
And Frost (or the editor) has an odd way of shaping his poems so that it is hard sometimes to realize where the sentences stop and start.
That said, when I took the time to really slow down and read these poems and stories, I realize why Frost is considered a national treasure.
Robert Frost offered the United States a taste of something new, yet something old. By combining traditional forms in poetry and modern techniques, Robert Frost became a leading figure of the modernist movement. His told stories behind beautiful words, appealing to people seeking poetry they could grasp, yet still feel comforted by what they knew poetry to be: traditional. Robert Frost was a part of a modern world, but the importance of traditional form lingered throughout his work. First off, F
By combining traditional forms in poetry and modern techniques, Robert Frost became a leading figure of the modernist movement.
Robert Frost was a part of a modern world, but the importance of traditional form lingered throughout his work.
He wrote poetry the way we speak our language, changing the way Americans viewed culture and nature.
With the use of tradition (nature, closed-form, and use of metaphors), and modern form (modern language, the working man, and the strains of life), Robert Frost’s poetry is defiantly significant.
Robert Frost, a modernist with a traditional heavy shell, will always be remembered as the poet who conquered writing of what was, and what is.
This book, I have found, is such a wonderful mentor text for teaching visualization, how to craft a setting and asking questions.
Possibly my favorite poem in this book, of the several that I read, deals with the aspects of how to create a setting, and having the reader visualize what you are trying to write is the poem Road Not Taken.The Road Not Taken uses such descriptive language that it makes it almost impossible for the reader to not visualize being "in" the poem.
2.5 starsEveryone knows the most famous Shakespeare plays and sonnets, but reading beyond those famous pieces lends a greater appreciation for him.
Everyone knows the most famous van Gogh paintings, but viewing his lesser known works gives a fuller understanding of the artist.
This, I hoped, would be the case with me and Robert Frost: that I would come to enjoy him more as I read more than his most well-known poems.
*You can also read this review and some other here at my website too.*One word- Awesome.
I am not much of a poetry person and very rarely I like them.
Poems like "The Road Not Taken", "Out, Out-", "Stopping by Woods on a Snowy Evening" are simply epic.
For anyone who likes to read, specially poems, I would suggest that this book is definitely worth reading.
If you do not love poems, I would request you to read at least the aforementioned poems (with great patience and analysis) and I assure you won't regret the time you give.
The reason for this is that his work, his poetry to be exact, is so specific to each topic that it is about.
Be it love, isolation, decisions, or whatever else, Frost finds a way to make each of his poems very specific to the case at hand.
There are no other distractions except the narrator and the narrator's focus.
For example, in Frost's "Love and a Question", the poem focuses on the weary stranger, and a young bridge and groom.
To have such a focus in one's work is a great talent indeed.
I've been familiar with Frost's poetry--I've read or sung a good bit of it from High School to Randall Thompson's setting of Frost's poetry to music, Frostiana.In a seminar class we read "Home Burial".
The professor shared that of all the poetry Frost wrote and read aloud to audiences, "Home Burial" was one that was too personal to share publicly.
As a pastor, this poem captures the struggle every married couple I've ever counseled.
By that I do not mean in the specific circumstances and pain that are depicted in this poem, but in the general and tragic way in which couples miss one another.Find it, and read it.
First off: Robert frosts poetry stands for itself - but the thing with this specific edition is, that foreword and annotations as well feel like written by a very shallow person who completely takes hold on what the reader should think.Also, the formatting makes me throw up. Splitting 'stopping by woods..' onto two pages, even having to flip to the next page. Awful..
Although I am partial to the more melancholy poems, I did appreciate the humor as well. I must say that I thought there was too much commentary in the edition I read, so I skipped most of it and just read the poems. I don't want to be told the "meaning" of each poem, I prefer to form my own response.
I so so so loved this one.When I decided to buy this, I only new a few poems of R. Frost and I was pleasently surprised to discover that I enjoyed most of them very much.The use of so many different topics was amazing, Frost took a regular and simple thing and made it into a magnificent poem.Thumbs up for this book! I will sure be reading some more of this author.
The commentary in this was sometimes bizarre. I felt like the commentator was almost sticking up for Frost, as though people were attacking him. I didn't really think Frost needed defending as a great poet. All in all, however, I loved reading a lot of lesser known poems and learning a bit about Frost's life and poetry at the same time.
There is much more to Frost than "The Road Not Taken". His poems aren't quaint little New England country roads. They are intricate superhighways branching out into questions and dilemmas. Like Hemingway, he doesn't have to use erudite words or abstruse ideas to hit you where it hurts.
This anthology covers most of Frost's major works of literature, especially "The Road Not Taken" and "Stopping By Woods on a Snowy Evening".
I love poetry, but I don't really like Frost's poems :( However, there are exceptions: I LOVE "Fire and Ice", and I quite enjoyed "A Lone Striker" and "Revelation" as well :D
My favorite poet! Every poem is a story and it's simply beautiful.
