https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/8357992-worth-dying-for
The fact that there is a fifteenth Reacher book is a pretty good sign that he must have survived the fourteenth, although that was not entirely clear at the time.)Jack now finds himself out in the Middle-of-Nowhere, Nebraska, still recuperating from his injuries and attempting to find a ride to Virginia.
The doctor refuses to go treat the woman and so Reacher, ever the White Knight, compels him to do so.
Once the doctor has treated the woman, Reacher goes looking for the husband and punches his lights out to teach the guy a lesson.
I have mixed feelings upon finishing this latest Lee Child novel.
Jack Reacher comes into a small town in Nebraska (but it could be Montana or Texas or anywhere else with wide open spaces and sparse populations) and discovers that something is not right.
The events this one action set in motion are complex, layered, and ultimately bloody.That said, I felt a bit uneasy in how the whole plot plays out and the phrase, revenge porn, again comes to mind.
In this novel, Jack Reacher is like a robot or an avenging angel, playing at humanity.
I get the feeling like I’m the last person to know; I bought this book still thinking that it would be a shocking resolution to the cliff hanger ending of the previous 61 Hours.You see I was hooked into the possibilities: could Reacher actually be dead?
If that isn’t slapstick enough for you, the Duncans answer to a the Italians, who answer to some other bad guys, who answer to some Iranians, who answer to the Saudis – all of whom send a couple of guys to keep an eye on the others, resulting in a small town full of organized criminals who comically murder each other (or get their hearts punched out by Reacher)While the story is fairly run-of-the-mill for Childs, the prose is solid, and the action is well planned.
It starts to look as though he will be outnumbered when professional enforcers get added into the mix of local thugs, but (view spoiler)[ part of the problem is solved by them turning on each other.
(view spoiler)[ Childs went to great pains to demonstrate how local and federal officials had done their utmost to track down a missing girl, yet Reacher comes to the conclusion of a fifth involved man.
No child since then has snuck into the barn?
I think the extreme evilness Child describes and Reacher's cold-blooded targeted assassination left me with an unsettled feeling at the end instead of the "Hoo-rah" that one hopes for.
(hide spoiler)]
Before long a slew of people are out to maim/kill Reacher including a bunch of cornhuskers and three sets of hitmen - sent by the Arabs, Italians, and Iranians who are awaiting the shipment.Reacher is very tough, however, and his encounters with these creeps generally ends badly for the would-be assassins.
While all this is going on Reacher hears about the disappearance of a local young girl twenty-five years ago and decides to find out what happened to her - not so easy while so many people are out to kill him.
Another great Reacher. If you like Reacher, that's all you need to know.
4  stars. Lots of bad guys for Reacher to beat up. It was well done and lots of fun.STORY BRIEF:Reacher arrives in a remote farming area in Nebraska. The Duncan clan has terrified the entire county into submission. They require all farms to use their trucking company and pay high rates. They have former football players on staff as thugs to bully the locals. They are waiting for a shipment of something illegal to arrive which they sell to a guy in Las Vegas. Twenty-five years ago the daughter of
Lots of bad guys for Reacher to beat up.
It was well done and lots of fun.STORY BRIEF:Reacher arrives in a remote farming area in Nebraska.
Ending: feel good and satisfying.THE SERIES:							Following is a list of the Jack Reacher books in order with my ratings.
One Shot (#9) 2005 (movie with Tom Cruise available 12/2012)3 stars.
Second Son 2011 (short story at the end of the “The Affair” and available separately on Kindle)2 ½ stars.
A Wanted Man (#17) 2012(not read) Deep Down 2012 (short story available on Kindle) (set during Reacher’s army days)2 ½ stars.
Please movie people, show some Reacher integrity.
Them Cornhuskers oughta stuck to huskin' corn, cuz they shore ain't no match for Jack Reacher!
He can outthink and outfight and just plain outCOOL everyone who tangles with him.
This one was very satisfying.
It was reminiscent of the older Reacher novels---totally unbelievable and all the more fun because of it.
Jack gets to spout off a lot of great quips in this one, too.
Wouldn't we all love to be able to think of those perfect comebacks in every stressful encounter?
This story will make you want to avoid Nebraska for at least the next few lifetimes, unless you like your landscapes FLAT and featureless.
4 Stars I think this happens to be the most satisfying Reacher book I've read.
Not only did I finally find out how Reacher escaped from his predicament in 61 Hours but I believe the antagonists of this book definitely deserved what they had coming to them.
Reacher was seriously injured from the proceedings of 61 Hours but he still managed to kick some serious ass in their book.
This book is definitely action packed to the last page!
Now that Reacher is I ally on his way to Virginia to see Susan I really hope they'll meet in one of the next books!
I am merely worried that some of you out there reading my reviews may want to someday read this novel, "Worth Dying For", the fifteenth book in the Jack Reacher series, and I wouldn't want to ruin the experience by letting slip important little twists such as the Navy SEAL who also happens to be the Russian spy---SHIT!
Reading a Jack Reacher novel---as I'm sure you fellow fans know and understand---gets me kind of wound up.
My feelings on the subject have been talked about at length in other reviews of other books.
I've noted before that (for me) the Reacher books tend to run hot and cold.
I won't go through the book's/character's idiosyncrasies again.
Reacher tends to look like a giant homeless guy...hitch-hiking.
However then at other times his character (Reacher) will simply execute some slob because the law won't (be able) to do "the job".Oh well.Any way here the story draws Reacher into what turns out to be an old set of wrongs that grew to a head some years before...
Reacher finds that what he's stumbled into here is an evil that needs...attention.Okay, I liked this one and can recommend it.
This was a case that went unsolved by 3 different police organisations and was of great interest to the community but it was obvious from the second her disappearance was noted (which incidentally doesn't occur until about 150-200 pages into the book).
I'm fine with violence in my novels when there is a need, but 500 pages just to describe a series of ways to kill a guy without any real plot progression or character development is boring.
Lee Child must have made more money with this series than he could ever spend.
It offers the trademark Reacher thrill of vicariously beating up on lethally armed and well-muscled people who really deserve it from the safety of your armchair.But all the books in the series do that.
I wouldn't personally wish to spend time with Reacher.
That was called Nebraska and created the same mood this story does in its descriptions of a place so vast and featureless it provokes desolation in the human heart.Even in Jack Reacher's heart.
Worth Dying For is the fifteenth instalment of Lee Child’s series about tough guy, drifter, Jack Reacher, a former military cop, with a habit of wandering into other people’s problems.
In typical Reacher style he manages to find trouble in the sleepiest of places (this time Nebraska) in a town ruled by fear of the Duncan Family.
As always, Reacher gets to kick some serious ass, outsmarts a plethora of bad guys and comes to the aid of some innocent people caught in the crossfire.
Worth Dying For centres around another small town that Reacher unluckily stumbles upon and uncovers a decades old conspiracy.
That said, that is why I read these books for the brilliant character of Jack Reacher.In terms of the plot I felt it was dragged out a little too long.
For a 500+ page book, not an awful lot happens other than Reacher fending off bad guy after bad guy, and eventually uncovering the secrets of the town before heading off on his next adventure.
So whilst it wasn’t the strongest plot Lee Child has written, it was still enjoyable and as always I loved my time spent with Reacher.
violent?
☺But it's a Jack Reacher book - what do you expect.
I loved it.How this one guy saves the whole county.
Super exciting.
Of course you almost immediately know what they're smuggling, but still, it was all so very exciting!!!I only read one of those Reacher paperbacks every six months or even only once a year - but I really love them.
What I don't love is that Tom Cruise is trying to be Jack on the big screen - Ridiculous!!!
Six-five and blond and good looking - yup Tom, that's so you!
I enjoy the Jack Reacher books.
I've dipped into the stream here and there, and I'm pretty sure I read the book right before this one, as the events he has just come from sound very familiar.
They aren't deep, but they are twisty, and Reacher is an entertaining hero.
He gets less character time here than in some of the others, though.Note: The rest of this review has been withheld due to the changes in Goodreads policy and enforcement.
You can read why I came to this decision here.In the meantime, you can read the entire review at Smorgasbook
Worth Dying For (Jack Reacher, #15), Lee Child
Classic Child. Very entertaining, fast moving. Always an easy, fun read. Love Jack Reacher character
In this story Reacher has made his way to Nebraska when he stops at the Apollo Inn. There he overhears a doctor refuse to treat a woman with a nose bleed.
The Duncan's have a monopoly on the local trucking business.
The Duncan's do not appreciate Reacher's involvement.
Jack Reacher appears out of nowhere and rallies the citizens and takes on the bad guys and then rides off.
Reacher rides off into the sunset at the end of the novel.
This novel was in many ways a dark story.
The bad guys are involved in crimes that don't often get a lot of attention.
When Reacher takes things into his own hands, hoping to teach the bully a lesson, he becomes persona non grata in this small Nebraska town.
Interested in handling Reacher themselves, the Duncan clan sets their sights on this intruder with hopes of offering some Nebraska welcome.
While dodging the clan, Reacher learns of a decades-old mystery that has kept the town whispering and pointing in the direction of the Duncans.
While Reacher chooses to crack the mystery and keep the Duncans on their toes, what he discovers leaves him wishing he'd let that house call go unanswered.
I'm quickly re-reading the last couple of chapters of 61 Hours before I rush headlong into the next novel in the series.
Finished reading this the other day.
Worth Dying For is by no means a sequel to 61 Hours.
As others already mentioned there is hardly any explanation at all as to how Reacher escaped from his perilous situation at the end of the previous book.
Worth Dying For is a good read, albeit fairly predicatble.
Perhaps I've read too many of these novels and I'm beginning to see a pattern?
Recommended for real Reacher fans, perhaps others should look elsewhere.
Overall, this is a Reacher novel and those are good, if not always great.The story meandered along for quite some time and it was never really apparent until the end what all the fuss was about.
look out cause it's gonna hit you.For a while, especially towards the beginning I was wondering why Reacher got involved in the first place and how he was going to manage in the barren Nebraska winter.
He was hurt and the situation seemed impossible, but he did what he does best.I really do wish we'd had more closure on the happenings in the previous book as well as anything to do with Susan, other than a brief mention at the end.
Have read them all and can't separate any of them in my mind any more because I liked the Reacher series so much I read straight through all of them.
ebook while listening to audioThis my second time around and this book is one of my favorites. Child's constant explanation of things is enjoyable and educational especially to someone like me who has been asking "why" for almost 70 years. The story really flows and I had to slow down my reading to keep in sync with the narration. Like JR, I'm a baseball fan. Growing up I saw a lot of greats strike out, but it was an esoteric feeling when Mays, Aaron, Robinson, Mantle, Bonds,etc., hit a "no doubter" home run. Child hit one with "Worth Dying For".
"Worth Dying For" by Lee Child was worth reading.Reacher is hitchhiking to Virginia when his ride lets him out at a crossroads in the middle of nowhere in rural Nebraska.
A call comes in that a local resident has a nose bleed that won't stop bleeding and needs a doctor.
The woman has a broken nose, and from Reacher's long experience as a military policeman, he realizes it's the result of spousal abuse and he sets out to rectify the situation.
Before long, Reacher is up to his neck in trouble and soon realizes there are secrets and alliances at play that make the situation much more dangerous than he'd anticipated.Lee Child is a master.
First off, let's all just admit that Jack Reacher is a wholly unrealistic character.
Child has created a character that is like some modern day super hero, traveling the nation and setting the wrongs he encounters right again.
I intend to go back and read all the ones I've missed, mainly as a way of passing the time until the next one comes out.
I sincerely hope Mr. Child keeps them coming, as I have loved each of the ones I've read so far more than the one before it.
Who ends up in corn country Nebraska?
You guessed it Reacher in his shite magnet mode, as he tweaks the local "Duncan" clan into wanting to kill him.
Missing children, illegal shipments, world wide enterprises galore are just the tip of the iceberg here and our boy once biting into the juicy apple of sin cannot let go.
He's has to find out the family secrets, even if it means almost losing his own life in the process...
Gotta give him credit...but the Duncan's think he's more like a chujuawa than a pit bull, boy have they got him pegged wrong...
yap yap, yap.....CHOMP!
CHOMP!
As always, great action sequences and awesome Jack Reacher-ness. This particular story gets a little muddled with the huge cast of characters, it's perhaps a little too easy to guess what's going on, and there's not as much underlying tension/emotion as usual...but Lee Child writes such electrifying thrillers and the stories are such page-turners that I find it impossible to rate these books anything less than at least a 4.
I've read this one before, but I'm getting back into the series after taking some time off from it. The great thing about Reacher books is that he's such a consistent character that you really do feel as if you start to know him personally. He is that human "superhero" character that you absolutely love to see win the day.
