https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/18775297-sweet-filthy-boy
A sexy, sweet treasure of a story. I loved every word.
4.5 Stars!!! Sweet Filthy Boy was one of those books that sucked me in from the very beginning. Sweet, sexy and hilarious, it was a real winner in my book! I love books that make me laugh, have heroines I actually like, and boys that make me swoon. This book had all three of those elements. Mia Holland is a recent college graduate. She has one weekend. One weekend to let loose, be free before the responsibilities her father has placed on her go in to effect. She’s expected to go to business scho
I love books that make me laugh, have heroines I actually like, and boys that make me swoon.
She’s not sure thats what she wants, but she doesn’t know what else she would do.
As a little time passes, Mia and Ansel find a way to move past that awkward stage and slowly fall into the summer of ‘like’.I loved Mia and Ansel together.
If you are looking for a book that will make you laugh, make you grin, make you feel good and has that sweet and sexy romance vibe with some fabulously lovable characters, check this one out!
hey did you know that every time a review includes a coughsmolderingcough image of the novel's hero & heroine, images of vacuously pretty models or ostentatiously pretty celebrities from Us magazine or various other perfectly pretty sticks of margarine... that every time a reviewer does that...a kitten or puppy dies?? truth!this is because I literally have a basement full of kittens and puppies. every time I see a review like that, I go down to my basement and pick a particularly cute kitte
hey did you know that every time a review includes a coughsmolderingcough image of the novel's hero & heroine, images of vacuously pretty models or ostentatiously pretty celebrities from Us magazine or various other perfectly pretty sticks of margarine...
that every time a reviewer does that...a kitten or puppy dies??
truth!this is because I literally have a basement full of kittens and puppies.
every time I see a review like that, I go down to my basement and pick a particularly cute kitten or puppy.
and then I smash it with the lead hammer I have surgically attached to the stump of my lost right hand.people, please stop killing puppies & kittens!
3.5 stars![2 star beginning4.5 star story3 star ending]I do not read “light, sweet, & funny” books.
I pretty much laughed my ass off with Mia and Ansel’s role playing (TONS of that going on hehe) and despite the rather unbelievable start to their relationship, I liked that they took some time to get to know each other – those scenes were so awkward but funny to read!3 star endingEverything – the story, the steamy sex scenes, etc…- was going so well and then BAM, plot twist and I pretty much disliked Ansel after that.
If you end up struggling with the beginning like I did, keep reading!
HOT DAMN!! The writing duo of Christina Lauren created another panty-melter. I read book 2, Dirty Rowdy Thing, first and then this one. I know, sometimes I’m backwards! :) Viva Las Vegas! I love books that at some point the characters end up in Vegas because you’re guaranteed for some crazy antics. And this book didn’t disappoint in that area. Mia and Ansel have just met and done something crazy that leads to Mia spending the summer with Ansel in his city, Paris. Who does that? Meets a guy and t
I read book 2, Dirty Rowdy Thing, first and then this one.
I love books that at some point the characters end up in Vegas because you’re guaranteed for some crazy antics.
Meets a guy and then spends a summer living with him 5,000 miles away?!
That would be me who meets a guy who lives 3,000 miles away while in college and then flies across the country to spend the summer with him.
Especially since Ansley was forced to work the majority of the time Mia was visiting.
Sweet Filthy Boy was a book that worked for me.
Recent college graduate, Mia, heads off to Vegas with her two best friends to celebrate.
And after spending one night together, she wakes up with a gold ring on a pretty significant finger.Ansel makes her an offer she can't refuse, asking her to spend the summer in Paris with him.
Mia decides to be spontaneous and takes him up on his offer, things are a bit awkward at first, but as time passes their relationship grows into a more intense connection.
"What do you feel, Cherise?
I feel it too.
Fuck, Mia. I feel everything for you.
Sweet Filthy boy was funny, sexy and cute!
In Vegas Mia meets Ansel a Frenchman who instantly catches her eyes.
I'm going to buy the audiobook too, I want to listen him speaking French Mia was shy and she has to deal with a lot of things...
The were a lot of sex scenes and they were so hot!!If you are a fan of the Beautiful Bastard series I'm sure you will love it and If you are looking for a SWEET FILTHY BOY this is what you need!*ARC kindly provided by Galley Books via NetGalley in exchange for an honest review*
4.5--Ansel Loving--Stars!!Yep, even when he was stupid I LOVED Ansel! And what can I say...I love a good weekend in Vegas story! Look....it's Ansel, Finn and Oliver.What happens when you have 3 hot chicks + 3 hot guys + sluts on a trampoline???Dumb shit like (view spoiler)[get married (hide spoiler)]!!! But can I just tell you how happy that made me!! “I want to love all of my life as much as I love this night.” So some crazy things happened in Vegas....this happened to be Mia and Ansel's story.
And what can I say...I love a good weekend in Vegas story!
“I want to love all of my life as much as I love this night.”
So some crazy things happened in Vegas....this happened to be Mia and Ansel's story.
And meeting Ansel might just change things for her.After their weekend in Vegas, Mia agrees to spend the summer with Ansel in Paris.
Mia and Ansel kind of started backwards.
This summer was their chance to get to know each other, to fall in love, to discover each other.I seriously fell in love with Ansel.
I loved how hard they fell.
4.5 ~ 5 StarsSo a sad thing happened today, I deleted this review by accident. I truly enjoyed this story but sadly don't have my full review saved anywhere.All that I could find was my collage...Seriously, I wrote whole review and it was up for months. I'm a damn menace with technology.
I just can't believe what I just read. I really want to think that the last 17 days I spent struggling. Trying to finish this book. All. Everything. Was a nightmare. But it wasn't. The book exist and I did finish reading it. My brain can't understand what happened. This ain't my first Christina Lauren's book, but I'm thinking it might be my last. What to say? Where to begin?The storyline. I don't believe there was one here and before you say anything, yes I need to bring the BB series to this co
I really want to think that the last 17 days I spent struggling.
The book exist and I did finish reading it.
This ain't my first Christina Lauren's book, but I'm thinking it might be my last.
From the BB series I only LOVE "Beautiful Bastard" and "Beautiful Player." The other books weren't that good.
The last book from the BB series ( "Beautiful Beginning" ) was such a disappointment to me, I really NEEDED this book to be AWESOME!
I did skip a few paragraphs here and there and I feel I didn't miss anything important.I wanted to LOVE this series.
4 filthy French stars   “Life is built of these little horrible moments and the giant expanses of awesome in between.”    Sweet Filthy Boy  starts off with a bang, in which Mia our heroine, takes a graduation trip to Vegas where she meets a sexy frenchman Ansel, and the two get married. Mia ends up following Ansel to France, where he returns to work and is hardly around. Mia finds herself mostly alone, in a foreign land, when she decides to make the most of her summer in Paris and with Ansel. M
Mia ends up following Ansel to France, where he returns to work and is hardly around.
Also, I don't really consider it instalove because the characters struggled throughout the entire book to connect with each other and tried to take the time to get to know each other.
And by bored I mean the entire middle of the book was about Mia and Ansel having sex, and to be honest, I started to lose interest.
4.5 Filthy Boy StarsYou know those stories were people go to Vegas, get drunk, get married, and then get it annulled?
Ansel, Finn and Oliver are the trifecta of hotness and when they all get drunk, one thing leads to another, and they end up paired up and married.
So when drunken Mia proposes to him and begs to stay married to her even after they sober up and realize it was a mistake…he does.The next morning their trip is over and it’s time to say goodbye, but Ansel isn’t ready to say goodbye and asks Mia to accompany him to Paris for the summer.
I was really curious about Ansel since all my friends loved him and he’s mentioned a few times in the future books.
Mia wants to end the marriage, but Ansel said he wouldn’t until after the summer.Who is Ansel?
He’s a sexy French man with a heart of gold.
It was really cute reading the interactions between Ansel and Mia because they are husband and wife, but they are also strangers.
Throughout the marriage Mia tries hard to engage more with Ansel and be adventurous in bed.
Overall, Sweet Filthy Boy was a fun, sexy read and it’s my favorite out of the series.
3.5 Filthy stars Life is built of these little horrible moments and the giant expanses of awesome in between. The story starts with the wild weekend in Vegas where Mia and her friends decide to celebrate their graduation. Mia carries lot of baggage of her past and unsure future but that weekend she decides to let go of her life and for once wanted to be somebody else not tied up by burden of being a responsible daughter. Her wild side sees the light of day when she lays her eyes on Ansel. He is
The story starts with the wild weekend in Vegas where Mia and her friends decide to celebrate their graduation.
What started as sex marathon one crazy night ends up with Mia and Ansel getting married.
Here’s when the story gets interesting, while Lola and Harlow (Mia’s friends) annul their marriage with Oliver and Finn (Ansel’s friends) Ansel convinces Mia to give their marriage a try and to spend the summer with him in Paris.
Marrying a complete stranger and to top that follow him to Paris, but with Ansel she actually feels alive, he makes her brave, wild and seductive.
RE-READ  “Which was your favorite? Living room, or bed, or floor, or bed, or wall, or mirror, or bar, of floor?”“Shhh,” I whisper. “You're weird.”“I think I need a cast for my penis.”  Genre: New Adult Romance.Cover: 8/10Writing: 9/10Heroine: 6/10Hero: 9/10Hotness: 8/10Romance: 9/10Extra book Details: Heroine POV. stand alone. 304 kindle pages.Mia has just finished college, she's leaving for Business School in Boston in three weeks, much to her father's pleasure and her despair.Her best friends
304 kindle pages.Mia has just finished college, she's leaving for Business School in Boston in three weeks, much to her father's pleasure and her despair.Her best friends Harlow and Lola encourage her to lose herself at a weekend in Las Vegas.Only problem she ends up losing herself in Ansel, the French Adonis who makes her melt from the other side of the room.
A real 'seize the day' kind of man who 'falls a little bit in love with everything that he sees.' I really truly loved him.I loved seeing Mia's best friends and Ansel's best friends together, they were really fun and seemed to have a lot of personality.

The bad boy vibe that the whole aesthetic sets up is completely wrong--the love interest of this book is actually so cute and sweet and gentle and I would have never picked this book up had Emily not told me it was her fav by Christina Lauren.Overall, solid book.
Usually with books I smash the 5-star button on, something about the characters and plot really clicks with me, like how I could relate to the main character.
It's hard to get into specifics because it's spoilery, but a couple of the plot decisions were bothersome because from a personal preference standpoint, I just don't find them interesting or compelling ways to create conflict.
attempt #4: 2 stars.I liked the French aspect, other than that, mehh.
3.75/5I enjoyed reading this book and I loved the way Ansel and Mia tried to get to know each other better.
Day by day, their relationship as husband and wife grew stronger and it was so cute seeing them together.
I know this is erotic romance story, but too many unnecessary sex scenes irritated me a lot.
I admit I skimmed through some of them.Aside from the fact that almost half the story revolved around sex, for some reason, this book was just right for me.On the whole, this was a lovely and sexy read.
Fans of erotic romance and new adult romance shouldn't miss this one.
Mia and her two besties, Harlow & Lola just graduated college and are off to Vegas to let loose & celebrate.
But Mia's not the type of girl to just let it all go.
Too much has happened in her past and the weight of the future she doesn't want to allow her to free, until she meets him.
Ansel is spending the last few days in Vegas before he has to head back to Paris and to his job as an attorney, one that does allow him much time for much else.
Seeing Mia from across the crowded club, the
She knows the responsible thing to do would be to go home, prepare for the life she knows she doesn't want - but the idea of summer in Paris with Ansel, what girl could say no to that?
The kind of love story where the characters have to work their way backwards from where they start to where they end.
There was humor, there was sizzling play time scenes and even some heartfelt moments - but there was a bigger picture of realizing what you really want in life and not being afraid to take it.
You tend to do something really Stupid.
And this Book is the big example of what worst could happen when you visit Vegas for the weekend...Sweet Filthy Boy. it's about three ladies.
who recently graduated from college, and looking for a quickie Vacation in Las Vegas before going back to REALITY!...
Mia Holland tries to cope with her sudden change reality.
While on Vacation, Mia goes outside of her comfort zone.
Mia actually takes Ansel's offer and follow him to Paris.
You'll Witness all the above...I really liked Ansel's goofiness.
That was really stupid, yes?.
4,5 Filthy Stars!In a crazy weekend in Vegas, Mia meets Ansel.
Ansel is always working and adaptation isn’t easy.
But eventually they got past that and things get easy, and sweet (and sexy) again.
Sweet, romantic and with pretty sexy moments.
Character Development:  Mia was pretty good.
She annoyed at some points, but I got past that pretty quickly.
Ansel was great.
And despite of one attitude of him I really didn’t like, he was a great hero.The supportive characters were pretty good and I can’t wait to read their stories.
Steam:  Hot!!HEA: 	(view spoiler)[Yes. But I needed a happier end.
(hide spoiler)]["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>
I always enjoy Ms. Lauren's characters and storylines (and her sex scenes aren't bad either *wink, wink*), but her endings just leave me wanting.
I actually enjoyed their story, so I'm happy that I gave it a shot :)Brief Summary of the Storyline:  This is Mia and Ansel's story.
(hide spoiler)]OW/OM drama: Yes (view spoiler)[The H has an ex that causes some drama for the couple.
(hide spoiler)]Sex scene with OW or OM: NoCheating: No (view spoiler)[The H does say that he cheated on his ex in his past.
(hide spoiler)]Separation: Yes (view spoiler)[ They are separated for what I think is around 2 weeks.
4.5 Sweet, Filthy stars This was my first book by these authors, and I have to say I really enjoyed it! I liked Mia, but I'm completely in love with Ansel. Swoon. I loved everything about him. I think I have a weakness for hot, charismatic French guys:) I didn't blame Mia at all, one night with Ansel dirty whispering French phrases in my ear, and I would have followed him anywhere too. In fact, I'm not sure I've ever been this jealous of a fictional character. Explore Paris by day, have wild Sex
This was my first book by these authors, and I have to say I really enjoyed it!
I liked Mia, but I'm completely in love with Ansel.
I think I have a weakness for hot, charismatic French guys:) I didn't blame Mia at all, one night with Ansel dirty whispering French phrases in my ear, and I would have followed him anywhere too.
Sign me up!I also have to point out that this is a book that deserves to have the word filthy in the title.
These authors know how to write sex scenes and mix it up enough that it doesn't get boring, this book was off the charts hot.
4 stars Mia is in Vegas with her friends and meets Ansel. He asks her to join him in Paris for the summer. Will Mia follow her sweet filthy boy?Im gonna pretend I didnt read the first 25%.(view spoiler)[ The insta lust, drunken marriage, blackout sex and going to Paris with a stranger didnt sit right to me. It was reckless and dangerous. (hide spoiler)]Despite how they met, their connection grew on me and I really enjoyed the rest of the book. I was worried the sex scenes were meh to begin with,
Will Mia follow her sweet filthy boy?Im gonna pretend I didnt read the first 25%.(view spoiler)[ The insta lust, drunken marriage, blackout sex and going to Paris with a stranger didnt sit right to me.
I was worried the sex scenes were meh to begin with, but then the sexy time got hotter and hotter.
I liked sweet Ansel but he messed up big time and I havent fully forgiven him yet.If you are a fan of the Beautiful Bastard series this book may be for you.
It was full of sexy steam, a bit sweet n a bit funny.
4 Cerise stars  "I want to love all of my life as much as I love this night." I always find myself enjoying the work of these ladies. Witty banter, lovable main and side characters, and interesting situations will always be present. A rare miss for me, I found this to be a pretty solid read. Immediately after college graduation, Mia and her two best friends head to Las Vegas for some fun, boozing it up, and possibly a one-night stand. Ansel is also taking a break from stresses of reality. He is
Immediately after college graduation, Mia and her two best friends head to Las Vegas for some fun, boozing it up, and possibly a one-night stand.
Ansel wants to make this marriage work and offers Mia the chance to come to France for the summer before heading back to school and a life she's dreading.
Although I'm glad everything wasn't roses and daisies, I do think the tone of the book did a 180, and threw me off a little.
This also had a great heat-factor, and I loved how Mia got them back on track in the sex department.
I read tha wayyyy before.... but only now I remember to say something: I expected more.After the Beautiful series I was expecting explosisive chemistry, great plot and I got a medium book.Let's see if book can do better.
I think this even made my fire bigger and more intense!The entire story was beyond hilarious, for me.
I can't actually put it down and people were giving me looks during my ride to school most times for giggling so hard.
I actually don't know if I should laugh and giggle hard at the same time.
overflowing with butterflies.The hero, Ansel, the sweet and gorgeous filthy boy, is damn hot.
Dirty talking in French has never been this..
Who knew French-talking could be so hot.
Plus the dirty french talk..I wasn't expecting a drama, actually.
It's official, Christina Lauren does no wrong! Each book seems to get better and better and the men are always super swoony! Ansel was the perfect blend of sweet and filthy. The book started out really strong but it kind of fizzled around halfway and then picked up again when the turn of events came about. But the conflict was resolved a little too quick and easily for my liking which is the reason for my four stars.
5 Filthy, Sexy and Sweet Stars!!! I am going to follow that rating up by saying that I’ve been and continue to be   THE HUGEST CHRISTINA LAUREN FAN!  On the surface it’s a simple story about Ansel meeting Mia in Vegas. Mia and her two best friends are in Vegas celebrating their college graduation. Mia was a dancer but an accident now makes that impossible so she’s set for a course her father has chosen for her to attend Business school after the summer. In Vegas, she meets Ansel. Again on the s
On the surface it’s a simple story about Ansel meeting Mia in Vegas.
Mia was a dancer but an accident now makes that impossible so she’s set for a course her father has chosen for her to attend Business school after the summer.
Just enough to tell the wonderful filthy and sweet story of Mia and Ansel.
There are jems of sweetness, of caring and thoughtfulness and of course it's not a Christina Lauren book without making you laugh out loud.
Christina Lauren gave me everything I want in a book (again)!Awesome Quotes:
