https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/8723531-christmas-in-ritual-and-tradition-christian-and-pagan
Miles traces the history of indigenous religious practices that were simply renamed and tweaked a little to be given the patina of Christianity in later centuries, including examples that are straight-up witchcraft, sympathetic magic, and/or animism.
Aside from the fascinating practices and traditions included here, many of which were entirely new to me, the most interesting thing that struck me was Miles's repeated comments — in passing, as if this were known to all and taken for granted — that "modern" folks weren't much for this religious stuff, Christianity included.
A mighty tome, but well worth a read for anyone interested in the history of winter holidays and traditions.
Fantastic. A remarkable resource for anthropologists, historians, and folklorists alike. A scholarly work that, despite its age, remains a valuable addition to any academic collection. I find myself turning--again and again--to its well-thumbed pages while researching a varied range of subjects.
As expressed in the preface, the book is intended for the average reader that aspires to appeal to the budding scholar, and expects most are more interested in the latter section.
Following is a chapter for Liturgy and Popular Devotion, then, Drama, in detail, with several examples in the original languages for a proper sense of what it was like to experience.Part Two covers the various folk customs associated to the season from Hallow's Eve, to Candlemas, with the chapters divided between the major saint's days..
I didn't really make it through this book.
Rome, Paris, Germany, and Britain make up the bulk of the countries whose traditions are talked about in this book.
As another reviewer mentioned, the language used is rather quaint since the book was originally written in the 19th century.
I would think the only people that this book would hold an interest for are people doing some sort of research related to this topic, or folk lorists.
This book is not for the average person curious about Christmas and why we do what we do.
This is a survey of the history and folklore surrounding Christmas and related holidays, originally published in England in 1912. Part I covers the history of Christmas as a Christian feast day and how that developed. Part II discusses pre-Christian festivals and observances and how a lot of them survived by being given a Christian veneer (feasting, the Yule log, mistletoe etc.) although the overt paganism disappeared. The folklore of several European countries is covered. One value of this book is that it covers a lot of customs that have probably disappeared since 1912.
A great overview of the history of Christmas. See my complete review at my blog http://allenpatrick.blogspot.com/2009...
The title says it all.
hsh
