https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/547608.Beelzebub_s_Tales_to_His_Grandson
I read this book when I was going through my cosmic-esoteric phase. Boy, I'm glad that's over.
Eventually, just getting through the book becomes a battle of wills against Gurdjieff.
Will you prevail, or will the book?
If you make it to the end, he probably would have welcomed you as a student of the Fourth Way. If you don't, well, there are certainly other ways to achieve inner harmony that aren't so mentally draining.
I mean, I love a good challenge, and I tip my hat to Gurdjieff for creating such a dense thicket of a book, but this is truly only for a select few, with lots and lots of patience.
Gurdjeiff writes Beelzebub as an extraterrestrial astronaut who describes his experience with the strange and illogical inhabitants on the planet Earth.
The most hilarious portion of this example is Beelzebub's conversation with an American in Paris who is teaching American tourists how to dance the foxtrot.
In fact, Gurdjeiff's closest pilgrims do not initiate discussion about Beelzebub's Tales because the experience that each individual has with the book is considered beyond language, and it truly is.
The first book in Gurdjeiff's All and Everything series, his goal in the writing of this book was to remove all the many years of false experiences and hardened opinions of potential readers.
At the beginning of Beelzebub's Tales to His Grandson, Gurdjieff discloses his purpose in its writing: "To destroy, mercilessly, without any compromises whatsoever, in the mentation and feelings of the reader, the beliefs and views, by centuries rooted in him, about everything existing in the world."To that end, Gurdjieff wrote one of the most baffling, infuriating, virtually unfathomable tomes on this or any other planet.
One tends to either reject it after a superficial overview, or delve into its life-changing depths.Gurdjieff's ideas about the transformation of Man, the effects of that transformation upon the fate of this planet are just as vital as when he proposed them over half a century ago.
This was the last work of fiction I read in that nebulous time after going nuts, dropping out of undergraduate, and finally spending a few months wandering homeless through suburban and metropolitan Atlanta, but before being plucked up off the street (thanks to a very lucky recommendation from a professor I'll forever owe) to lead the development team at what would become Reflex Security.
-- these questions power Gurdjieff's abstruse, operose work, one which I wish I'd read at a less demoralized and vitiated time in my life.
This is a review of printings that remain faithful to the 1950 Edition.Gurdjieff reveals candidly in the opening pages of Beelzebub's Tales that this First Series of his writings is for the real consciousness buried within us and is intended to "destroy without mercy" the conceptions and views that have become so firmly rooted because of centuries of people living abnormally.
Interpretations and explanations are for the ordinary mind, what Gurdjieff calls, in his introduction to Beelzebub's Tales, the "fictitious consciousness." In my view, explanations that purport to render the hidden meaning of Beelzebub's Tales are not at all what Gurdjieff intended for his writings.
Most of this is infuriating (want to smack Gurdjieff everytime Beelz mentions ‘your favorites’) and disappointing (was kind of hoping for the mystic epic version of "Sympathy for the Devil"), but I respect his chuztpah, especially in the go-fuck-yourself early sections (‘wish this book could be sold with the first 30 pages uncut, so you could get your money back when you can’t handle it”).
Fittingly soul-crushing for something intended to entirely break down your perception of reality, but not entirely clear if the author is a wacko charlatan or on some plane of understanding I can’t begin to comprehend (not likely).
There are no 4th way groups in my area (I am teaching in China) and I don't know if I will ever be able to understand this part of the book.
If anyone has any suggestions please let me knowUPDATE 9/10/2014I just finished the last quarter of the book after taking a six month break and this time it made sense to me and I was able it read it.
At first I had to consult the dictionary I made of all his special terms but eventually I was able to read it without consulting it.
To judge this work I need to first read all three parts, I also plan to read first part for a second time, may be even a third, as the author suggested.Gurdjieff tries to depict human civilization in a way that everything has gone terribly wrong, human race having failed almost completely in most aspects of life- as- it- should- be, (humanity) having destroyed all efforts to correct this.
But, again, I first need to read the whole work to properly judge.
As has been said, you must be gifted this book. It was given to me by a Gurdjieffien. It has taken several years to read. It's so many things, including a way of being. Also, Gurdjieff was a rug dealer.
However, when we are presented with the information that Gurdjieff provides us with in the series All and everything, concerning our role on Earth and in Universe, one may very well ask oneself whether what he tells us comprises a message of hope, or the very opposite.All and EverythingMost accurate and complete is always the work that comes from the original author himself.
En realidad la historia que cuenta es un telón de fondo para hablar sobre lo importante: “el todo y todas las cosas”.Desde las perspectivas que se podría analizar esta obra, y que seguramente hay muchas, la que a mí más me interesó es la del “extraño psiquismo del hombre en la tierra”, y el porqué de su naturaleza auto-destructiva, su comportamiento mecánico, su falta de conciencia, el estado hipnótico o dormido en el que vive y que ha vivido por miles de años a lo largo de su historia.
Probably the most difficult book I've ever read, and had many false starts. However, having finished it and feeling good at the achievement, it has continued to affect my view of reality. It is an odd book, indeed. In turns fascinating and infuriating, very much a reflection of Gurdjieff himself, it made great demands on both my perception of reality and my perception of my self. It dismantled much that I held to be true. No other book has had such an effect. I will read it again, as I believe it to be truly representative of his teaching.
An alien, guilty of an unnamed crime, is banished from the center of the universe to live on mars for millenia. After dilligently serving his sentence, he is permitted to return to his home planet. The alien tells his grandson about his life on mars, where he often observed the humans of earth - a race of delusional insane beings who are completely out of harmony with all existence.This book was written in a strange way that requires the reader to "actively mentate" while reading. Very challenging for me to read, but was funny and sometimes very enlightening.
Why do you ask sixty?"Thereupon the salesman, making as is said the "oleaginous" face proper to all salesmen, replied that the book indeed cost only forty-five kopecks, but had to be sold at sixty because fifteen kopecks were added for postage.After this reply to our Russian merchant who was perplexed by these two quite contradictory but obviously clearly reconcilable facts, it was visible that something began to proceed in him, and gazing up at the ceiling, he again pondered, this time like an English professor who has invented a capsule for castor oil, and then suddenly turned to his friend and delivered himself for the first time on Earth of the verbal formulation which, expressing in its essence an indubitable objective truth, has since assumed the character of a saying.And he then put it to his friend as follows:"Never mind, old fellow, we'll take the book.
I read Gurdjieff’s magnum opus, Beelzebub’s Tales to His Grandson or An Objectively Impartial Criticism of the Life of Man when in my early twenties under the tutelage of Robert Schectman, a student of Christopher Fremantle who was a student of Gurdjieff himself.
The main theme that surfaces throughout the book is the core insanity of humanity underlying its penchant for creating wars.
Gurdjieff turns history on its head and makes it clear that as a species we have a serious defect, suggestibility, that leads to all manner of personal and collective insanity, including war and environmental catastrophe.
I believe Gurdjieff accomplished with this work exactly what he had originally set out to do.
That is, of course, to destroy any set notion, concept, or solid construction of how a book of this sort should be written, read, and/or comprehended.
With its own original set of words and vocabulary, excessive and unnecessary repetitions, as well as a rather confusing dialogue, this book certainly does become a test of concentration, will, and wit to complete and truly unravel its innermost meanings.
It is a massive work that can leave you feeling accomplished coming through it, or wondering why the hell you spent so much time reading something so ridiculous.
I can't say I've ever read the book with the attention that is required.
I went through it once, in college, and am willing to give it another go.
The very interesting thing about its book is that it "speaks" to the reader who utilizes the exercise -- to read the book with all of ones attention -- on a body-sybolic level.
You understand the book in a way beyond the sometimes awkward science-fiction fantasy adventure.
And there is an incredible melancholy that permeates this book.
The melancholy of Beelzebub/Lucifer.
Is it because he tampered in the rational funstioning of the universe.
Very difficult book to read, but very very interesting point of view on the problems of modern society.
After finishing it in 2 weeks of extra cautious reading and decyphering metaphore after metaphore i can really say that this knowledge is a key for a 18 year old boy to be ready to start a new life in this real world which is full of cruelty. The metaphors and the real characters are so wonderfully disguised that it was shock for me when i found out who certain characters were. Awesome book would recommend but it is too long.
I rate this book a "5" for what it is - not because it's a real page turner.
Cormac McCarthy has nothing on Gurdjieff when it comes to exhaustingly long sentences.
CMC could blur the line betwixt sentence and paragraph.
One would not pick up, for example, the Garland (Flower Ornament) Sutra, turn to page 1, and begin.
And - like the aforementioned Buddhist Sutra - I can not say with any confidence, "Look elsewhere Seeker.
Enlightenment is not to be found within these pages." (Hell, as a three-brained being afflicted by the Organ Kundabuffer, I can't say anything with confidence...)
If you Re unaware of your prejudices or if you are religiously decided don't torture your self to read tis book.Actually the preface tells you if the book is for you or not I am half through and this is only for open minded Imagination is more powerful than knowledge.Peace!!!
If you have the propensity to explore this then by all means read this. If you are one who would gain from this then you will finish it and gain something in the process. I did.
What a long strange trip it is. Goodbye Fourth Way, it just ain't the same without Mr. G.
amazing
This was my first foray into Gurdjieff and it was a difficult book to power through. Behind the many layers of smokescreens of meaning there is a message I could feel the semblance of resonance, yet didn't feel experienced enough to gleam the whole thing. I look forward to coming back to this and more Gudjieff after having studied his philosophy and style more comprehensively
It is a book not only for those of us who want a different way of thinking (those who feel are wired in a particular way) but also for those who are in this wiring not for a short time.
The book itself makes several meta-teachings.
Gotta admit that this book will, indeed, require you to read the second and third parts.
Feel free to disagree with the author.
Feel free to put the book down at moments and say to yourself "why?".
Nothing wrong with it.
Most of us already know there is a lot wrong out there.
I new from the first page that serious concentration was needed to read the book.
You can only enjoy this book if you have great interest in the absurd, crazy, mind bending mind of a man who claims people are some what ridiculous to write and read books and yet he himself writes a book that is close to the length of the Great Book the Bible and asks us to read the book not once, not twice, but three times.
For the contradiction he makes that is too profound for me is the one about people writing and reading books.
But the effort is certainly worth it, as it's one of the most incredible, unique and thought-provoking books I've ever read.Contained within the 1200-odd pages and cryptic language is a remarkable slew of histories / alternate histories / metaphors that constantly challenge the reader's perspective and demand interpretation.
Gurdjieff even creates a mini-lexicon to describe concepts both old and new to prevent the reader from processing the text thoughtlessly.
Many readers will get put off by the dense language and at times zany adventures described, but Gurdjieff clearly says in his 50-page preface quite proudly that he wants them to be put off.

