https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/219418.The_Tomb
Striding down the dark passage like the avatar of a vengeful god, came Jack.I can imagine that followers of the Agent Pendergast series (Relic), the Charlie Parker series (Every Dead Thing) or the Harry Dresden series (Storm Front) would enjoy this, especially considering that The Tomb predates all of these by more than a decade.
blood!…there were rustling and scraping and grunting sounds coming from the darkness beyond that door.It’s an enjoyable enough romp with some interesting twists.
I will certainly be reading the other books in this series.She glanced up over the hood and froze in horror at the sight of a dark, dripping, glistening form rising out of the bay.Indeed.
YES! A great series like the "Dresden Files", Simon Green's Nightside etc. A nice break from all the romance-y stuff I've been reading lately. Really great lead, interesting protagonist and storyline. I really love this series and will read many more!
Harry Dresden without magic and more violent and more Horror than Urban Fantasy. Repairman Jack takes on jobs that require vigilante justice - "fixing" problems in a way that the usual law enforcement and judiciary can't.Excellent pacing. Believable(ish) story. Scary monsters. Some genuine suspenseful moments. A step up from book one The Keep.4 StarsPS: I don't know why this book is called The Tomb - There is no Tomb!
This novel has a lot of modern (80's) thriller sensibilities with a can-do 'fixer' focused mainly on character study and definition, mostly in the same way that horror novels do it.
It just happens to be MORE focused on character study and interpersonal dynamics.
It's a decent horror, I suppose, but it happens to be perfectly average, as one, unless you give bonus points for using the idea of Rakashas as the primary story.I've read a lot of things like this, however.
Paul Wilson describes the urban fantasy equivalent of his off the grid anti-hero.
Wilson also demonstrates his libertarian values in a protagonist that would make Poul Anderson or Heinlein proud.While this can be seen as a far-out version of a Travis McGee adventure, urban and contemporary fantasy fans will be drawn to its supernatural qualities.
Jack is on the trail of an ancient Indian evil that is threatening paying clients, the girl he loves, and his own hide in this very enjoyable 1984 publication that could also be considered in the genres of horror, thriller or science fiction.Whatever label a reader chooses, I think we can all agree that this is a fast moving and fun speculative fiction page turner.
(Not exactly below the radar in my book.)Jack watches old movies late into the night in an apartment filled with odd pieces of furniture, old toys and antique kitsch.
Except for the cold blooded killer part he sounds like Tom Hanks' character in "Big."This book is chock full of all the conventional characters--you know, the quirky weapons dealer that can get the hero his flame thrower in the middle of the night, the friendly bar owner that allows Jack to use a private booth for business, the love interest that is repulsed by what Jack does for a living--but just can't keep herself from falling for him...So the only remotely unconventional thing about this book is that it is an odd pairing of mediocre examples of two different genres, the detective/thriller and horror.
I think Mr. Wilson did a good job of creating this character.
When this story starts, it's clear that supernatural situations aren't really his forte, but after this book, I think Jack will have his feet wet in supernatural matters.I liked the Indian folklore, using the rakoshi, which is an Indian demonic entity that can be called up via a curse.
I liked that Jack had an Indian love interest, who was easily as complicated as he was.
I love action, and I like a good horror story that relies more on suspense and genuine fear-inspiring storytelling and less on gore.
One from his ex-girlfriend Gia, whose sister-in-law has gone missing and one from an Indian cultural attache' working for the UN, who has lost an important necklace.Of course these two plots intersect and monsters are involved.The GoodAs a character I liked Repairman Jack.
I like this moral ambiguity in my reads because no one is ALL good or ALL bad.The BadThe characters in the book, besides the protagonist Jack and the main antagonist, are pretty one dimensional.
Some years ago I read The Keep.
It was the last thing by Mr Wilson I read...till now.
A couple of years ago someone suggested to my wife and I that we try the Repairman Jack books, but I never got around to it.Till now.I've got to say I liked this book.
This book started out as what might be called a fairly standard thriller and morphed into something like Harry Dresden meets Mitch Rapp.
I plan to read the next book.The only odd note?
There's no Tomb in the book.It turns out that F.
They figured no one would notice there was no tomb in the book.
Not your electronics, but real problems involving people and sometimes more.Jack had a girlfriend Gia, who couldn't cope with who he was and what he did for a living and she left.
A relative of her ex-husband has disappeared and they need his help.This makes Gia and Jack rub each other the wrong way even though they both still have feelings for each other.The story goes on with Jack investigating the kidnapping, but things take on a supernatural aspect when he meets an Indian woman and her strange brother.
I thoroughly enjoyed it and plan on reading more in the series by Mr. Wilson.Recommended Read~
Repairman Jack - a fix-it guy who moves in unsavory circles. Got a problem that doesn't involve the law community? Jack is the guy.After losing his once-in-a-lifetime gal, Gia, to his past, he becomes involved in finding an iron necklace for an Indian diplomat.We find a centuries-old curse waiting for our hero. This story moved extremely fast, with likable characters, and even the bad guys had honorable intentions.
I was excited to start this series about this mysterious character Repairman Jack.
Jack is a kind man with a little something extra, however, he feels the need to show himself to his family and friends as an underachiever and a bit of a thug.
To protect his ex-girlfriend and her family he must find out more about this odd man, his beautiful sister, why they are in America and what they want.An old curse, things that go bump in the night and a little romance made this an exciting read.
There is a book before this one that I will be reading before going on in the series.
4.0 to 4.5 stars. First of the Repairman Jack Novels. This is a very well written story with a fantastic main character, namely Repairman Jack. Not your normal everyday repairman, Jack "fixes" problems for people and he is very good at what he does. Won't give away too much of the plot other than to say it has intrigue, Indian Mythology, demons and a rather nasty revenge/curse thrown in for good measure. Recommended.
Beginning a new series is always a dicey prospect for me.
Once bitten, twice shy, thank you Robert Jordan.Still, after a friend had touted the glories of the Repairman Jack books to me again and again, I found my curiosity piqued and the walls of my reticence began to crumble.
This book was pure fun from beginning to end.
When you toss in some delightful Indian monsters that are hunting down several of his friends, well you've got the makings of a fast-paced thriller the likes of which I haven't read in a long time.So thank you, Scott, for raising my awareness of these books.
A few weeks ago, I was wishing for another pulpy guilty-pleasure series to read; I'm jonesing a bit, since it will be at least 4 more months until the next Dresden fix, heh.
Jack is an interesting character, his moral compass points in a slightly different direction than most people, but his version of True North is consistent for him.
If he doesn't use his SS# he doesn't magically get different rules than the rest of Americans, it complicates his life.
Damn book cliffhangers though.
I hate cliffhangers.
Also, I hate pulp series that aren't totally available for my ereader.
What Jack lacks in supernatural gifts (found abundantly in Harry Dresden, Cal Leandros and Atticus Sullivan), he’s supposed to make it up with his human power mojo of weapons, fighting skills and wit.
What I would really like to see is a more convincing display of Jack’s human prowess in getting things done, solving mysteries and fighting his way out of trouble.“The Tomb” is not compulsively readable, but the storyline is engaging enough and I like how the book ended.
I would certainly give this series a shot, but I do hope to see its characters grow and become more layered, and of course, witness Jack’s full potential by and by.
4 Stars I really enjoyed this Urban Fantasy that is the start to the Repairman Jack series.
Wilson has created a main character in Jack that I can really get behind.
The world that he has created is very much like our own but with just a little bit more.The highlights of this read is the page turning writing style.
Easy page turning, action packed, tension filled fun....Oh yeah did I mention that this book is just plain fun to read.I cannot wait to go on to the next book as I join Repairman Jack on his adventures.
But they aren't really strong in that they don't really do more than talk, their legs turn to rubber or wood when a man is there to do the heavy lifting, and they freeze when things get terrifying (except for one heady moment when one woman actually goes first into a scary passageway, although she does have a magic item that renders her invisible to the bad things she at least went first after panicking and refusing to go for at least a full paragraph!).
Repairman Jack books have been popping up on my radar for a few years now, and I've been wanting to read the first in the series to see if I want to dive in.
But when I got to pages 383-4, I read this (Gia is Jack's estranged girlfriend and Vicky is her daughter.
He got Vicky!""It's all my fault, Jack.
That look on Jack's face--she turned away.
I finished the book and the end was mildly satisfying, but after that I had a very hard time taking it seriously.Repairman Jack books are now being published in hardback.
He "fixes" things for people who can't, or won't go to the regular authorities for help with problems.
Jack is the last resort for people who are desperate for help and have nowhere else to go.Jack doesn't exist as far as the "normal" world is concerned.
Gia is desperate enough to ask Jack for help finding her.And Jack is happy to help, especially since if he finds Aunt Grace, he hopes Gia will give them another chance.
[No spoilers - you'll have to read the book to find out].Things really heat up when Vicky is taken by the same evil that got Aunt Grace.
The Tomb By F.Paul Wilson (Repairman Jack book #1, Adversary cycle #3)*****448 pages Tor booksSo here is folks, were starting a journey here.
It all starts in “The Keep,” but I had read that twice in the past and I had never read The Tomb, so when I saw it and the following two books in the series I decided I would read the first three Repairman Jack novels, and well I got hooked.I decided that 2012 would be the year of F.Paul for me and set out of the goal of reading entire secret history of the world this year.
In a way, he is a sort of one-man “A-Team,” an off-the-grid mercenary who helps to fix situations that the legal system cannot or will not.In this book, he takes on two repairs simultaneously (a situation he is not fond of): the aunt of a woman that he loves and who had recently broken off a relationship with him goes missing from her house in Sutton Square in New York; and, the mother of a member of the Indian delegation to the U.N. is mugged and beaten severely.
Here you have to look past character development, believable plotline, depth and range of evoked emotion....etc etc...and just have some fun with it and let yourself go.The story line is something along these lines:"Repairman" Jack is a man with no legal identity...no SSN, no car, no license, no nothing.
Anyway, Jack is called upon to locate a missing elderly woman, one of a set of sisters who live in New York, who happen to live with Jack's old girlfriend and her little girl.
At the same time, he is called on to locate a missing piece of jewelry which belongs to an elderly woman who is dying in the hospital.
Repairman Jack is my kinda guy.
He also solves people's problems for them--which, of course, is what makes him the Repairman.In THE TOMB, Jack's ex-lover asks him to track down a missing family member.
Rather, THE TOMB is escapist fun on a grand scale.
F. Paul Wilson proves himself a masterful writer, but much of the plot feels clumsy and forced--not to mention downright predictable.
As the coincidences in the story pile up, one quickly senses Wilson's omnipresent authorial hand pushing his characters toward their predetermined fate.
This was my introduction to the Repairman Jack seres. Amazing detail, the story really pulls you in and the characters are well written. I definitely had a huge sense of anticipation and excitement as every page turned. I have since read a second in the series, Hosts. Looking forward to reading more!
First of the Repairman Jack series. Jack lives "off the grid" and works to fix problems that others cannot, usually the police. He is drawn into two cases, which quickly become intertwined: the theft of a necklace of a UN diplomat's mother and the disappearance of his ex-girlfriend's spinster aunt. Involving the desecration of a Bengalese temple and rakoshi, retribution is the theme here. A bit far fetched, but Jack rules.
Oh, wow, this book was fantastic! Unfortunately I was meant to be reading it with a very good friend here on GR and oops, I got carried away and started/finished before I should have (sorry, Jeremy). But once I picked this book up I was loathe to put it down. Thank you ScottK for loving this book so much and talking about it, you've now started me on a weird and wonderful ride with Repairman Jack. This series is quite a long one so I had better get to purchasing those books.
** did not finish, left off at about 60%**This book was just not for me which surprised me because I really liked Midnight Mass.I thought it was a little slow and for whatever reason the character just didn't grab me. Think I'll stick to his horror books.
This one will be hard to review. It is a bit Urban Fantasy, a bit horror and a crime thriller. At times it was average while at other times it was downright interesting. It is like a Harry Dresden without the wizard powers (although Repairman Jack was first so its not a fair comparison) Review to Follow
I believe this was the second book by Wilson. Also good, although I think I liked the Keep somewhat better. I remember more about The Keep.
