https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/900068.The_Berenstain_Bears_and_the_Spooky_Old_Tree
Happy Halloween. I never read this as a child - too bad. This was fun. Very simple. Very Halloween. It is creepy and it still feels safe. This was a huge hit with the kids. They loved it. I'm glad they got introduced to it. Good for age 2 and up. The bears are going through a haunted tree. Shivers ensue. Enjoy!!
I must have read "The Spooky Old Tree" to my kids a million times. My daughter and son are 12 years apart in age and I still remembered at least half the words to this book when my son was a toddler. I think I have it completely memorized. It's short enough to read out loud without losing your voice and it's fun to do it in a creepy, scary voice. This was my all-time favorite bedtime book.
My son loved this book and so we read it over and over again. We owned a copy which I may still have but not sure.
Fear. Illusion. Nightmares. A heady mix of rebellion and self-discovery, a bildungsroman of Lynchian proportions, a journey through the darkness surrounding middle America, wading into the murk of the mind, of life, to the farthest reaches of night. Is there joy in this world? Perhaps. Safety? A more assured thing, if accepted as a temporary measure. Yet evil remains, waiting, reaching. Sleep tight, sleepybears.Also, this was the first book I fell in love with, mainly because it also came with a cassette that played spooky sound effects when it was time to turn the page. Woo-oo-oo-oo-oo-oo!
Authors: Stan and Jan BerenstainIllustrators: Stan and Jan BerenstainPublished: 1978Genre: Animal Stories; Scary; ComedyAnnotation:  In this story, three little bears set out to explore a spooky old tree. In the beginning, each bear has one tool: a light, a stick, and a rope. Throughout their adventure, the book repeatedly asks the reader, “do they dare” take the next step in their adventure? Every time, the answer is, “Yes. They dare.” As they explore the tree, one by one the bears drop their t
This book naturally encourages kids to make predictions about what will happen next by asking, “Do they dare...?” Kids can use the bears’ past actions as evidence to help them predict that the answer will likely continue to be “yes.” In fact, the last time the book poses the “do they dare” question, it reviews for the reader all the times the bears did dare to do things.
The illustrations in this book add a lot to the simple text, depicting the spookiness of the tree, the danger in each step, the consequences of the bears’ choices, and their frightened reactions.Discussion questions:-(Page 14) Do they dare?
More often than not, children's books present topics which are relatively gentle.
Stan and Jan Berenstain, however, have never shied away from presenting problems in a way that the youngest readers can understand.
In this book, the three bear siblings set off to explore a spooky old tree armed with a stick, a light, and a rope.
Inside, they find twisting stairs, hidden passages, and the fearsome Great Sleeping Bear.
Safe at last." The words have a comfortable predictability about them as the Berenstain's employ a slightly evolutionary rhyme and repetition.
★★★★★The Berenstain Bears and the Spooky Old Tree by Stan and Jan BerenstainLove it! My daughter and I love spooky old Halloween looking trees. So what are the cubs gonna do when they find it, go exploring what else. Armed with all the goods, a rope, a light and a stick, they set off. What do they find, the Great Sleeping Bear. This has got to be our favorite Bears book.
It wasn’t pleasant to read because of the simple writing, and it didn’t have the humor and charm that a lot of their books have.
They dare.’ Like will they go in the spooky tree, up the stairs, through the wall, down the hall, over the bear?
Down the hall, sister bear’s stick in split in half by one of the knight’s spears lining the hallway.Brother has his flashlight going over the bear, and in the next scene, it’s suddenly gone, so we’re led to believe it got lost in the shuffle.The escape is far fetched at the end.
It repeats the same phrases and sentence structure throughout the book that I find repetitive styles very annoying and tiresome.3 little bears, light, stick and rope, and "Do they dare...?" I get it, I don't need everything reiterated over and over again.
Usually these come with a lesson but this was all about repetitiveness and no point.
There was an opening through the tree that looked like it led out to sea.
They wake him up crawling over him, have to climb this ladder, where there's a hole in the floor leading to a slide, which takes them out of the tree.
Three little bears, one with a light, one with a stick, and one with a rope, set out to explore the spooky old tree near their home in this early reader from the Berenstains.
Encountering many dangers along the way, they make their way through the interior of the tree, eventually finding their way home again...Like many American children, I grew up reading about the Berenstain Bears, and I have happy memories of entering their ursine world, so like the human one.
I particularly enjoyed looking at the interiors of the tree houses in that world, and The Berenstain Bears and the Spooky Old Tree provides an especially interesting arboreal house for the little bears to explore.
it is awesome!!!
One of the first books my sons learned to read by themselves.
Kids tend to enjoy suspense as much as adults.
This ranks among the best early childhood titles for developing imaginations.
Contrasting with so many other Berenstain stories, there isn't an explicit lesson to convey (unless you count teaching children never to explore wilderness in the dark lest they encounter implausible dangers).
In fact, here's an article about how good horror can be for audiences of all ages: http://www.tor.com/blogs/2014/05/why-...The benefits of this more open-ended tale are in the potential discussion between parent and child.
Why was the Great Sleeping Bear so different from the other bears?Read, discuss, and mostly enjoy this fun little adventure.
This is one of the earlier Berenstain Bear books, and it shows.
The bears are less stylized and cutesy than the bears in the newer books, and the story is halfway between an early reader and the newer, longer read-alouds they do now.It's a cute little story about three cubs going out with a light, a stick, and a rope to explore.
Of course, they lose all three items and run screaming home to mom - and with good reason, that spooky old tree is *really* spooky.There are only a few words per page, with a basic vocabulary, so it's great for early readers.
I always picked this book for my mom to read to me when I was 3 years old. I knew it so well that I would say the whole thing for her instead:o) I still enjoy reading it to my nieces and love the Berenstain Bears.
This is probobly the best Berenstain book out there! My kids loved this book. It has been to the "book doctor" so many times that is barely recognizable. It is on my list for my granddaughter, now.
One of my children's favorites this book is boxed away for their children someday. How many of us as children looked at an old tree in the dark shadows and imagined it was full of scary things. The Bernsteins address being scared of things we don't need to be scared of. Great story.
My favorite book to read to my kids and now my grandson...
This book is awesome, yes it is.
I will always love the Berenstain Bears. Always. Does anyone else think it was Papa Bear hiding in the tree to scare them? Otherwise why is Mama Bear so cool with them exploring some creepy old tree?
This book has once again found its way into our regular rotation. One of my favorites when I was a kid. I just wish I knew what happened to the cassette tape that came with it...
one of the shorter bear books, but I thought it was good.
Kassidi - liked the book but it was very short and too easy....needs more challenging books. Beginning of 2nd grade
Just enough words on the page, and just enough "spooky," for the young child. Brilliant in its simplicity.
My Granddaughter loved the book #very spooky for her!She enjoys reading this story since she was 3 years old. Now she is 10 and still loves the book. It is the first book that she could read by herself.She is a very smart girl and loves to read and go to the library with me when she visits.We read a lot of books together.
This book reminds me of traveling through a haunted house. I love how the bears are drawn when they have the shivers. Silly spooky scary fun. Another great book for learning to read. :)
Excellent book for teaching children how to read the feelings of others and understand why they feel the way they do. The pictures are interesting and give you a chance to talk to your children about what happened.
This isn't even-- there's a plot but no point.
Yes, they dare." And they keep going through weird things in this creepy house that's kind of like a haunted house and they get more and more scared.
At the end there's a giant bear and they crawl over him and he gets mad and chases him, and then they run back home, and that's the end.
There's not even any reason for them to be in this Spooky Old Tree to begin with.The best part: when they climb over a giant, sleeping, naked bear.
It's just a weird thing to do.
This book is about three little bears and their adventure up and through the spooky old tree.
The illustrations in this book really make up the story.
This story could probably be told without the text, because the illustrations provide so much detail that the text does not provide.
For example when they little bears go up the stairs the text simply just says that they dares to go up the stairs, but the provided illustrations show them going up the stair, but right as they reach the top, an alligator jumps up and snaps part of the stairs in its mouth.
The Spooky Old Tree.
However, they discover there is a lot more inside the tree than they expected and one-by-one each little bear becomes more and more frightened.
Theme: Sometimes our expectations for something can be completely wrong, and we end up experiencing something different than we thought.
One being, reading the book around Halloween time and having a class discussion about fear, what scares us, and how that is different for everyone.
The second, could be having students writing a journal entry about a time when they experienced something that was completely different than what they thought it would be like and why that was.
