https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/91099.Bring_the_Jubilee
In the age of Trump the nasty debates going on around flying confederate flags, the resurgence of certain racist groups and the ongoing culture wars can make a reader suspicious that a book like Bring The Jubilee is an attempt to hit them with a musket volley of partisan historical revisionism.However, Moore's book is nothing of this sort.
Moore doesn't weigh his book down with too many what-ifs, or descriptions of battles, focusing instead on what life is like seventy years after the Civil War. Things get a little bit unlikely with Hodge’s (very much foreshadowed) time-travel towards the end of the story, but I enjoyed his journey nonetheless.
THE BEST ALTERNATIVE HISTORY/TIME TRAVEL STORY I HAVE EVER READ!!!!
In brief, the plot concerns an alternate history in which the South won the Battle of Gettysburg and, eventually, the Civil War. Thus the story takes place in a world where the Confederate States of America is a separate, prosperous country and the United States of Ameirca is a poor, declining one.I was very impressed by Ward Moore's style of writing and I thought his characterization was superb.
Reading the book was a pleasure and I was actually sorry when I came to the end as I wanted the story to continue.
If you are a fan of alternative history (or just of fan of great stories) pick this book up.
In response, the Confederacy has allied with Great Britain, creating two opposing empires that straddle the Atlantic.Strangely enough, slavery was abolished but minorities continue to face persecution, and poverty is rampant in the United States, the former Union states of the North.
It presents so many brilliant little details of his alternate world, but the main story revolves around the life and thoughts of the main character, so that I often felt prevented from seeing the bigger picture of his alternate world, and despite the depth of characterization, this book could have been longer and more complex, taking more time to explore his concept, and most likely have made a greater impact in the SF field.
Ok, my expectations should have been high starting another book in the SF Masterworks series but I hadn't heard much talk of this author and wasn't overly bowled over by the premise.
Also of interest are the different technological paths that are explored leaving the world (in 1952) without aeroplanes, cars and electricity but far more developed in other ways such as in hot air balloons and gas utilisation.More interesting though is the story of the central character Hodge.
Can he merely observe and chronicle or is inaction itself just another form of action, a choice that may shape events one way or another?
An interesting novel based on the idea and in the world where the South won the American Civil War and how America would look and how this affects the rest of the world.
Great piece of alternate history literature.First class read.
Moore takes his time, setting the scene, filling in the history of the defeated North and giving us tantalising glimpses of affairs in the wider world.
There's sex and spice, history and conflict before the fateful trip into the past, to stand at a turning point in history.I love time travel stories.
No Edison, no Bell to harness electricity.I'm reminded of Stephen King's recent expedition into time travel, where we find out what ramifications JFK had on the world.
Ordinary people in ordinary places, and yet the world forks.This is one of the classics of science fiction and time travel.
One of the first 'If south had won the war' novels, and still one of the best. The book has aged quite well, and it's still an engaging read. In this short novel you will find no decisive battle descriptions, no grand army movements, in fact, it's situated in time two generations after the 'War of southron independence', and is narrated by a historian. This is definitely one of the most enjoyable books about alternate history I've ever read, and I wonder what took me so long.
(view spoiler)[However, the book starts to lose its appeal when the author tries to reconcile this alternate timeline with our own through the use of science fiction and the invention of a time machine.
The section on the building of the time machine and its design was quite awful; just a bunch of jargon tied together and "equations to be worked out." I have a prejudice against time traveling in fiction - either you're too simplistic and introduce too many logical inconsistencies or you attempt to deal with the paradoxes and the book becomes a joyless pain to read.
Just tell the alternate history - there's no need to introduce time travel and muck up the book.
Bring the Jubilee (1953) was the first significant Alternate-History tale (it is also a Time-Travel story) in which the South wins the American Civil War. After describing his depressed world, an eminent historian from the disinherited Northern States is given the chance to travel back in time to the vital moment of the Civil War, the Battle of Gettysburg, victory in which had won the entire conflict for the South.
Bring the Jubilee has influenced dozens of successor tales in which the Civil War is manipulated for reasons of controversy or nostalgia.
Review to follow.
Little does Hodge know, but the experiments going on at this facility may unintentionally reshape his world…The first half of Bring the Jubilee is something like a meandering travelogue; it reminds me of those future histories from the ’30s, in that it’s more interested in displaying its fantastic setting rather than developing a deep or complex character or plot.
Moore’s brilliance here was a simple one: he took history and flipped it, switching the roles of the Southern and Northern halves of the United States after the culmination of the American Civil War. We don’t see every detail of this imagined world, but the snippets we do see are striking, and I’m still impressed by a post-Reconstruction North tearing itself apart during a 1942 election where Thomas E.
I received a kindle format version at no cost, prior to release, in return for publishing an honest review.American Civil War alternate histories are a staple of the genre, probably the best known being MacKinlay Kantor’s If The South Had Won the Civil War (1961), and more recently Harry Turtledove’s Southern Victory series (1997-2007).
But rather than reading like a faux history book (If The South Had Won the Civil War), and rather than giving a blow-by-blow of the conflict itself (Southern Victory), Moore immerses his story immediately in the resulting rump 3rd world United States two generations after the conclusion of the “War of Southron Independence.” In the person of young Hodge Backmaker, we first see his native backwater Wappinger Falls, and a much-diminished New York City where he works in a bookstore/printer shop.
I was expecting a pedestrian alternate history tale, given the era of the novel and the relative obscurity of the author. What I got was a rather complex affecting novel. With some great and believable world building, complicated characters acting in adult ways, and a historical denouement that makes our historical reality seem unreal. In short, I liked it. Required reading for alternate history fans. Seriously. Don’t walk. Run.
Granted, I don’t really believe the Northern states would have been the ones suffering had the South separated – the North had far more industrialization and most trade ports; the South only had a few major exports and a lower population.
The time travel part of it was kind of dumb though, because it didn’t really make sense.
And while the characters were rather flat, at least the female characters weren’t fragile things there simply to sleep with the main character (well, they kind of did, actually, haha).
I admit to being underwhelmed, although--perhaps--that author's idea was seminal at the time he wrote this story.The main character, Hodge, lives in an America where the South won the Civil War, and the North is an underdeveloped, economically depressed, powerless nation of poverty, crime, ignorance, and hopelessness.
Hodge becomes a historian and travels back through time where he inadvertently changes the outcome of the Battle of Gettysburg, changing the course of history into what is our current timeline, and damning himself to remain in the past forever since the person who invented the time machine he utilized is never born.
The sad defeated United States--disemboweled and at the mercy of the other great powers--is quite affecting, yet out of these ashes, our protagonist crafts a life of loveliness that reminded me in many ways of Twain's Connecticut Yankee.
And the third act plays in many ways much the same, but with a strange and vital inexorableness, underscoring the ying and yang of the protagonists' two patrons.How this never got made into a film I couldn't tell you.
An adaptation with merit and intelligence comparable to the source would be considerable more than that.
A haunting contrafactual. The time travel device is, of course, mere nonsense. But the story is marvelous: the South won the War Between the States, and from the wreckage of a banana republic North comes a young scholar who gets a chance to experience the pivotal moment of that war, and who makes a single but critical error in judgment.
Not quite 4 stars. Lots of philosophical discussion....predetermination versus free will....passive versus active participant. The South has won the Civil War. What is left of the North becomes what we would call today a third world country. Not only is this an alternate history novel, but it is also a time travel novel.
An excellent alternative history novel that inspired "The Man in the High Castle." The North lost the Civil War and the "26 States" are weak, impoverished and behind. Electricity and the car have not been invented in the 1950's. The main character is a historian who is able to time travel back to the pivotal moment of the Civil War and change history. I found this to be real page turner.
This is one of the short stories that I read in "The Best Alternate History Stories of the 20th Century". It was well-written and well-imagined. The best of all of the alternate history stories in the book. There is a lot of philosophy and it rambles on for quite a while before getting into the meat of the story, but it was still really good.
This is the best alternate history of the civil war books I've ever read and one of the best, and earliest, alternative history books in general.
This would have been much better as a short story. The first four fifths of the book were completely unnecessary, did not suitably build up the alternative history in question, and were dreadfully dull.
Excellent Alternate History / Time travel short story.
This section is not as interesting to read, and it has been said that much of this past parallels the authors life.In the second section, Hodge rescues a young woman in distress and joins a self-sufficient collective of scholars and intellectuals.
Who better than history Hodge to travel back and observe the Battle of Gettysburg, where the South won the war?This books is expanded from a novella released a year earlier, and I suspect the second section is the majority of that story.
I plan to track down the novella (collected in The Best Alternate History Stories of the 20th Century) for reading soon.
Written back in the 50's this book seemingly is way ahead of its time.
An alternate history, time travel, with steam punk elements story, that should do well with readers today.
Though I don't think many people know of it.We follow our main character Hodge, a history buff, in a world without need of such a thing.
He struggles with needing more from life and sets off from his home in Wappingers Falls, NY to New York City.
Hodge struggles with himself, the world, and relationships until he discovers Haggershaven.
Moore has a few other works that like this seem ahead of their time.
The Confederacy steadily expands its empire through Mexico and South America.
Its chief rival is the German Union, which splits control of Europe with the Spanish Empire.
In response, the Confederacy has allied with Great Britain, creating two opposing empires that straddle the Atlantic.Strangely enough, slavery was abolished but minorities continue to face persecution, and poverty is rampant in the United States, the former Union states of the North.
Other than a rich landowner minority, most people are indentured to their owners, effectively a form of slavery.
The first alt history book?
Proto-steampunk?
Fo' sho'.
Ward Moore relates a tale of an alternative reality 1950s USA, where, 90 years ago, the Union lost the Civil War and now a divided North America struggles to get by.
The industrialized North has decayed into a decrepit, poverty-stricken smogfest (hence the steampunk), while the South/CSA is put-putting along with slavery and agricultural stuff.
Protagonist is a bookish history student who wins a scholarship to study at a fancy Dead Poets Society-esque college in rural Pennsylvania.
There, he hits it off with a lady physicist, who...
has invented a time travel machine!
Oh...chissà perché ero un po' prevenuta verso questo libro, avevo il sospetto che fosse noioso. Forse dopo aver letto qualche recensione, chissà...E invece è stata una lettura molto, molto gradevole, interessante, colta, e pure avvincente in una maniera particolare, sobria ed elegante direi. Ward Moore scriveva davvero bene, sono contenta di aver scoperto questo scrittore.Consigliatissimo, soprattutto agli amanti del genere ucronico.
Couldn't get into it despite the awesome premise. Where's the plot? Hodgin lives in a vanquished North, land of sharecroppers, squalid poverty and a seething resentment of bitter defeat and what-could-have-beens.Was taking much too longfor Shit To Happen, but perhaps the atmosphere is the be-all, end-all for this particular story - and I just don't have the patience.
