https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/890728.The_Peter_Principle
Many learned experts will prescribe many different remedies.(c)Q:The Percussive SublimationThe Lateral ArabesquePeter’s InversionHierarchal ExfoliationPeter’s BridgePeter’s Pretty PassPeter’s CircumambulationThere’s no Patron like a new Patron!Final PlacementThe Alger Complexthe Pseudo-Achievement SyndromePeter’s NuanceHypercaninophobia (top-dog fear)Summit CompetenceCompulsive IncompetenceAbnormal TabulologyPhonophiliaPapyrophobiaPapyromaniaFileophiliaTabulatory GigantismTabulophobia PrivataAuld Lang Syne ComplexRigor Cartis (an abnormal interest in the construction of organization and flow charts, and a stubborn insistence upon routing every scrap of business in strict accordance with the lines and arrows of the chart, no matter what delays or losses may result)Compulsive AlternationTeeter-Totter SyndromeThe Downward, Upward and Outward BuckpassesThe John Q.
At universities we see proclamations authored by administrators whose own office communications are hopelessly muddled; and droning lectures from inaudible or incomprehensible instructors.(c)Q:Seeing incompetence at all levels of every hierarchy—political, legal, educational and industrial—I hypothesized that the cause was some inherent feature of the rules governing the placement of employees.
In which case Peter's book will be a blow, because its message is that in a hierarchy incompetence is inevitable and unavoidable - maybe this is one reason why some years ago business gurus gabbled about flat organisations resulting in huge chaotic spans of control.I imagine most people can tell a Peter principle story or two, mine is about a former head of department, according to legend he was a prompt and proactive junior in the department, was prompted to a supervisory role in which he was distinctly average, but being less disliked than the other supervisor was promoted to head the department when there was a reorganisation.
[image error]The other day, out of nowhere, one of my sons asked me, “What’s the Peter Principle?” I scrambled together something about people tending to get promoted until they reach their level of incompetence.
Early on, Peter & Hull provide the principle: “In a Hierarchy Every Employee Tends to Rise to His Level of Incompetence." It was only afterward that I wondered why my son had asked the question.
While the book lapses into occasional cutseyness (a new word, and don’t you dare refudiate it!) and the self-evident, I’m thinking employers should re-read it now and then and take a look around.
Thankfully, I got fired from my company before I reached my level of incompetence.
Basically, Peter says, if workers do well (and especially if they have "pull"), they will keep being promoted until they reach a point where they can no longer do their job well.
I thought his point about varying definitions of competence was particularly well-taken, i.e., to a boss, competence is less about being good at what you do and more about being a worker who maintains the organization's hierarchy.
Basically, we're all kind of doomed to mediocrity and incompetence, both in our own careers and as individuals who have to deal with workers in other businesses.

On the principle that employees are promoted to positions of increasing complexity and responsibility until they can no longer perform their jobs, at which point they remain indefinitely in the position at which they are incompetent, Peter concludes: "Work is accomplished by those employees who have not yet reached their level of incompetence." He also observes that employees at both extreme ends of the competence bell curve are not allowed to live.
Freud seems to have come closer than any earlier writer to discovering the Peter Principle.
Hierarchiology now shows us, of course, that frustration occurs as a result of promotion.
The idea of the Peter Principle is that "In a Hierarchy Every Employee Tends to Rise to His Level of Incompetence." When people tend to do their job well, they are eligible for promotion and that cycle continues until they are promoted into a role for which they are incompetent to perform the duties.
Perhaps ignorance is bliss.I honestly couldn't put this book down.
For example: "'Woman's work is never done' is a sad commentary on the high proportion of women who reach their level of incompetence as housewives."The Peter Principle is light and entertaining, but is also very relevant.
Long before Dilbert, there was The Peter Principle.I hear it referenced every so often, though most quoting it have never actually read it. I decided to at least remedy that for myself.Published in 1969, it still remains shockingly accurate. Despite it's exaggerated and humorous approach, it's also sobering and serious when you can immediately think of *exact* work scenarios that match his examples.Definitely a classic. Like the best of Dilbert, prepare to cringe with it's accuracy - and perhaps learn how to avoid the pitfalls described.
"In a Hierarchy Every Employee Tends to Rise to His Level of Incompetence".
Employees are promoted to positions in which they are no longer competent, and there they remain."Work is accomplished by those employees who have not yet reached their level of incompetence".“The most ineffective workers are systematically moved to where they can do the least damage: management.”“Hierarchical organizations tend to be become oligarchic in their decision making – meaning that power is concentrated ina few hands.”“Work expands so as to fill the time available for its completion.” [Parkinson, 1955]"1.
An official wants to multiply subordinates, not rivals.2.
Despite being written nearly 50 years ago, the accuracy of Peter's skewering managerial observations is still on point.
One of the reasons why so many employees are incompetent is that the skills required to get a job often have nothing to do with what is required to do the job itself.Strategic incompetence isn't about having a strategy that fails, but a failure that succeeds.
A popular fallacy among these experts and their clients is that "Incompetence co-ordinated equals competence".Many men feel that there is a certain aura of competence associated with heavy indulgence in bodily pleasures.
Realmente un muy agradable libro que abre los ojos al mundo en el que seguimos estando. A pesar de su antigüedad sigue estando vigente lo que sugiere. Fórmulas sencillas que pueden ser de gran utilidad tanto en la vida profesional y personal.
AN extremely enlightening, extremely depressing book. Once you read it, it's all too easy to see it at work in every facet of western society, including the financial crisis of 2008-9.Every person in getting a management or administration degree ought to be required to read this.
The main point of this book can be explained in a single sentence, and doesn't need much elaboration. Nonetheless, the book as a whole doesn't just rehash that one point; it's tongue-in-cheek funny and worth reading to the end.
Scarily accurate.
Humorous explanation of a real principle: in any organization, each individual rises to his level of incompetence. And, advice on avoiding doing so.
Tragically, sarcastically, entertainingly accurate
I’m not talking about a prophet or spiritualist, I’m talking about one of the most brilliant analysts of modern society.With this simple phrase on p.15 of my edition of The Peter Principle he explained nearly every problem the human species has faced as we have entered increasingly complex organizations in the development of our civilization,In a hierarchy every employee tends to rise to his level of incompetence given enough time and enough levels in the hierarchyAnd the more I’ve thought about it, internalized it, experienced corporate hierarchy… the more I’ve realized that it explains everything.A housing bubble caused by artificially low inflation rates?
Super kompeten adalah suatu kondisi dimana sesorang (walaupun jarang tapi ada) sudah mencapai puncak hirarki tapi tetap saja kompeten, oleh karena orang seperti ini akan mencari bidang-bidang lain unruk digeluti sampai pada suatu saat dia menggeluti suatu bidang yang dia tidak kompeten untuk menjalankannya - karena itu tidak seorangpun yang bisa lepas dari Peter Principle.6.
Oleh karena itu banyak orang pada posisi hirarki yang tinggi tidak bahagia hidupnya dan mulai timbul berbagai penyakit akibat keterpaksaan untuk mencapai hirarki setinggi mungkin yang sebetulnya dia tidak kompeten menjalankannya.7.
I first encountered this book in the early 70s when my father thought it was hilarious, but I never bothered to read it until it was mentioned by someone on Fark.com as a funny book.
It was funny, but mostly in a repetitive and finally in a melancholy way.
The writer points out that instead of striving for promotions that cannot ultimately bring us any happiness but only frustration (and explains how his principle can be applied to the human race as a whole—a bunch of hopeless self-promoters), we should instead concentrate on doing good work.

My first reaction after I finished the book was WTF I just read”. I love the way the author takes you through the fictional science of Hierarchiology. Reading this book will give all readers a lesson on how important is to be aware of the Peter principle in order to avoid Incompetence in many life situations.
Se eu pudesse indicar um e somente um livro pra quem se interessa por administração (pela vida e pelos seres humanos também) seria esse, sim, com certeza!
It's a teeny-tiny book written by 3 men. You'd think they'd have more to say than just tired aphorisms.
Enuncia que «Numa Hierarquia Todo o Empregado Tende a Ser Promovido até ao seu Nível de Incompetência».
A medida que uma empresa cresce desde o seu estado de «startup» até ao de organização estabelecida, os empregados são obrigados a desenvolver as suas capacidades de gestão e organização.
Peter) observa que numa organização hierárquica todo mundo sobe até atingir o seu nível de incompetência.
Se pararmos e pensarmos, parece que todos que possuem uma função relevante cometem as mais inomináveis barbeiragens no exercício de suas respectivas funções.Moziel T.Monk, 2009http://www.blodega.com/index.php/2009...
I first read this book a dozen or so years ago -- in college, actually, so more like 20 years ago -- and thought it was pretty funny then.
Re-reading it now, well, it was a different experience.
I'm close to creative incompetence, though, and for those of you who haven't read the book, that's a good thing, sanity-wise and also for the company I work for.Anyway, if you haven't read this one, read it.
It's probably the best business psychology book out there, because it is by far the most honest.
Inherited this book from my dad, that he first purchased and read in the early-to-mid 1970's, I think during that period's tough economy. After holding onto it for years, started reading it myself around 2003 or so, after getting laid-off from a high-paying robotics industry dream-job. :) However, I feel Fitzgerald was wrong about there not being "Second Chances in American Life". Or at least that's what I tell myself in 2010. Now that I'm a dad myself, I am indeed the Eternal Optimist. :)
I would recommend this book to everyone in management, some management cannot see the wood for the tree's
"In a hierarchy, every employee tends to rise to his level of incompetence." Entertaining and insightful thoughts on incompetence and how to avoid it.
Common, creative, comical, classic! If you can't see the similarities between this extended essay and your own work experience, regardless of your occupation, you may need to read it again.
