https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/361066.A_Glossary_of_Literary_Terms
Εξαιρετικό. Έχει τους λογοτεχνικούς όρους σε αλφαβητική σειρά, και δεν εξηγεί απλώς τον κάθε έναν από αυτούς, αλλά παρουσιάζει την γέννηση του κάθε όρου στην ιστορική του εποχή, την εξέλιξη ή μεταβολή του στο πέρασμα του χρόνου (όταν αυτή υπάρχει) και αναλύει την σημασία του με παραδείγματα. Έμαθα χωρίς να δυσκολευτώ, και χωρίς να χάσω στιγμή το ενδιαφέρον μου, αντιθέτως αυτό μεγάλωνε με την κάθε σελίδα.
I had to buy this book for some class many many moons ago, and I thought it would be old hat by now,
One of the best books available for a swift but meaningful study of every new term you can find in the academic study of English literature. Brief, to-the-point, clear and intelligible - it is a rich book for everyone seeking to systematically understand English literature.
Indispensable. While I usually refer to Harmon & Holman first (A Handbook to Literature), I come back to this volume for more depth. Collectively, they make a great pair.
Due to lack of time I had decided to do a selective study, but Abrams lured me into reading the whole of it.
A useful & handy guide for every lit student ^_^ http://www.ohio.edu/people/hartleyg/r...
The "read" status I've given this book is purely for convenience: it is one that anyone who enjoys t
This book has gathered literary terms of English language in one place successfully. Those students who wants to give English literature exam should get prepared with the help of this book. I can't say this is great since this was the only reference I had in my hand recommended by my fellow friend who had got his Master degree the mentioned field.
I can't believe I'm actually done with this monster of a book. Didn't exactly love it, but learned from it so much, so incredibly much. I don't currently feel like discussing it or whatever; when you finish reading something like this, all you feel like doing is DANCING. So that's what I'm gonna do.
Over-elaborate where it should be more concise, too concise where more explanation would be appreciated.
I can't live without this reference.
I would recommend this book to all hose who want to pursue a career in literature or those who simply want to understand a literature in brief. M. H. Abrams explains every point and term in brief and to the point, making it easy for beginners to memories those heavily typical words.
A must read for any student of literature. I wish I'd listened to my professor who told me in my first semester as an English grad to buy a copy of this book. It's an essential read.
Really helpful for understanding literary devices
But after referring to several Glossaries of Literary Terms, I realized that such kinds of books still have a long way to go.
Based on what I have learned, simplicity is the key to writing books and teaching.
Unfortunately, as detailed as it was, this book lacked simplicity.
I personally prefer Yale's Handbook of Literary Terms and The Anthem Dictionary of Literary Terms and Theory even though they may not be as complete.I should also point out that referring to only one of these books during the process of study does not suffice.
This book would be the very best choice if anyone intends to get the cocktail knowledge in literature.
Term after term, you would get dazzled in this pool——or the sea——of signifiers.
And then being furnished with those techniqucal terms, your talk would shine with a gloss of wisdom (or wit?).
Well, it is exactly the very charm of this glossary.
Tracing the terms one from another, a chain, a circle, or even a net of signifers would come out with malicious sense of guile.
You sit down, and read the term, let's say,"Victorian Novel".
Very, very useful as a glossary of literary terms, as the book is named.
The next time I read this, it shall be for the purpose of looking up a term or reference, as a dictionary ought to be used.
Each term is very neatly discussed, explained and elaborated.
But perhaps I ought to admit: I have skimmed through many pages, especially towards the end of the book - mainly, I'm not that interested in the subject matter, and at present all this information really isn't of much use to me since I don't academically study Literature anymore.
This glossary is the most referred book I guess in history for English students around the world amo
RIP M.H. Abrams. we are immeasurably indebted to you. Nothing can beat this book when you need help with concepts and facts. it's an amazing mixture of encyclopedic literary history, analysis, theory and of course literary terms. it's elegant and precise. highly recommended for a thorough grounding and even getting started with English literature. But what Abrams has given us will serve generations to come.
If you ever find yourself confused by terms used in criticism or English and literature classes, this is the work to read!M.H. Abrams has a clear writing style and he definitely has a love of literature and this comes across well in this seemingly dry work that any word-nerd will enjoy. Pedants may find satisfaction in this work as well, using it to bludgeon their lesser informed peers with literary terms. (Pendants beware: random blogs and internet forums do not count as peers and friends!)
Read the title. If it interests you, read the book. If it does not interest you, neither will the book.Also, Abrams and Harpham always note some iconic works of criticism at the end of each definition; those are good starting places for research, or for getting up to date with with literary criticism.
Infinitely useful.
a very helpful book for the students of literature to get acquainted with numerous terms
This was a pre-Internet essential.
This a must for anyone's library. It explains and examines with examples all english used literary terms. I've used it to the point of worn covers and pages. Highly recommended.
a compact knowledge bank of literary terms...very useful for students of english literature.
I've used this as a resource for years, but I read it from cover to cover for the first time ever. Studying for the Praxis is such fun.
Yay No MORE COMPS.
I read this almost straight-through my freshman year, even though it's just a glossary. Very thorough and, somehow, fun.
