https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/239105.The_Silent_Blade
And he continues into the next books, so that is one bonus.I just dread getting back to the later books (I've read this series before, then dropped it because of time constraints and too many other books, and because of one character), because I loathe Pikel, the dwarven "doo-dad," which, even though I'm not a Druid, and I know that the Forgotten Realms Druidism holds very little in common with real Druidism, infuriates me.
But, I want to keep reading about Drizzt, so I suppose I will suffer through Ivan and Pikel's inane dialogue.
Please, Mr. Salvatore, no more Pikel.
Jarlaxle decides it will be in his best interests to pursue and wrest this powerful artifact from them, although they don't know what Crenshinibon is or what it does.Drizzt and his companions, meanwhile, on their quest, are harassed and beset by goblins and giants drawn to Crenshinibon's power.I found 'The Silent Blade' to be one of the most entertaining of Salvatore's books so far and look forward to reading the rest of the series.
Drizzt and his traveling companions made up one part, Entreri and his dealings in Calimport and with Jarlaxle made up the second part, and Wulfgar and his whoring around Luskan made up the third.I understand that Salvatore points the three separate story lines out to make their own branches in the Forgotten Realm, but I still took issue with the separation.
Not only did I have to suffer through yet another book where Artemis Entreri repeatedly questions his manhood because of his past encounters with Drizzt, I was also accosted by Wulfgar's poor decisions and horrible actions.
Wow, I'm pretty sure this is the lowest rating I have ever given a Drizzt book!
As always, I love Salvatore's writing style, I love his detailed action scenes and setting descriptions, and I love Drizzt, Catti-brie, Bruenor, Gwen, and even Regis.
But I've never liked Wulfgar, and that feeling just exploded in this book.
I'm sorry that you were tortured for years by an evil demon...but I'm pretty sure that punching Catti-brie in the face REALLY didn't help matters much.
You are a woman beating pig and no one likes you.
I enjoy Salvatore's writing, it does not require much thought or effort to read his books, which make them easy to just sit back and relish them.
They are a simple and easy read.
I am sure Salvatore is going to keep resurrecting this character again and again, and eventually try to get us to see a good side to him just as they do in that silly "Heroes" tv show.
I will keep reading the series, but out of enjoyment of action, and will try not to get bored with the same old sequences and characters again and again.
It's a good book but, I don't know, the spark's missing, I guess.Also, what really irked me was how Drizzt and Catti-brie, mostly it was those two, were all about how they wanted to give Wulfgar time and space to get better - and at the same time they kept nagging and nagging, wanting him to be the same Wulfgar he had been before the yochlol took him, as if they knew better what he needed/wanted.
When Catti-brie consented to sleep with Wulfgar to ~help~ him - right, to sleep with someone out of pity is so good and pristine!Yes, I'm tired of Drizzt and Catti-brie being the Marty-Sue and Mary-Sue of these books.
He was cool for about the first seven or eight books in which he appeared but as the series goes on he has become a rather repetitive and boring character.
Years ago I found myself enthralled by the many fight scenes in which he goes around slaughtering orcs, goblins or whatever else with his mighty scimitars but it has gotten to the point now to where such scenes are so common place and repetitive that they seem like filler to make for a longer book.
Split thoughts on this one.Salvatore is such a great writer - the things he can do with the written word are amazing and I always love to read him.
I'll keep reading him.
I feel sooo bad. But I am just not in the mood for this book. I have about 80 pages left but am going to give up and move onto another book. Edit* I have decided to not go back and finish this book. When I jump on the Drizzt bandwagon again I will just skip this one. With 80 pages left I simply look up what ends up happening. This book is all filler and I can't take it!http://angelasanxiouslife.blogspot.co...
My previous review of this book put it in a more favorable light, but now that I've had some time to really think it over, I'm changing some things.
I liked the stories about Drizzt and Entreri so that wasn't a big problem, but again Wulfgar's just bummed me out.If you've read the series up to this book, go ahead and read it.
It was still a good book, but I'd have to think carefully before letting someone borrow this one.Despite the mentioned problems, this was a satisfying continuation of the plot.
Here's a conundrum: how to write a review for a book that you finished only a few months ago, but have forgotten so entirely that you can't actually remember even a little of what it was about?I have a fine memory for detail and actually enjoy this particular author, often quite a bit.
The Smartest Person in the World, who reads a crapton more books than I do, is always a little impressed by my ability to dredge up even minor plot points from my reading of years and years back.
I mean, I know it's a Drizzt book because (a) he's on the cover and (b) c'mon, it's R.A. Salvatore.
The promised fight between Drizzt and Artemis Entreri was everything it should have been, especially the fact that it took place within Crenshinibon, now held by Jarlaxle, who is a much more interesting character in this series that he has been previously, and his cronies this time around aren’t too stock, but actually have something to bring to the story (like shapeshifting and psionic energy).
Drizzt just kicks so much butt, all the time.
The Silent Blade is in every regard an improvement over the LEGEND OF DRIZZT’s preceding installment, Passage to Dawn.
However, this is also the installment of THE LEGEND OF DRIZZT that finally convinced me that the series has not only jumped the shark, but is doing Evel Knievel motorcycle flips over whole tanks of great whites.Previously, on Drizzt and Friends, the demon Errtu finally (!) managed to return to the mortal plane and gain possession of the crystal shard.
At last granted his heart’s desire, Errtu was primed and ready to doom the earth to a living hell.
The Silent Blade 1998 yılında R.A. Salvatore tarafından yazılmış Forgotten Realms dünyasında geçen bir fantastik kurgu kitabıdır.Uzun bir seri olduğu için serilerdeki yerini açıklamak gerekirse, Path of Darkness serisinin ilk kitabı ve büyük The Legend of Drizzt (Drizzt Efsanesi) serisinin ise 11.
kitabıdır.
Seriye başlamamış insanlar nasıl olurda bu kadar çok kitap çıkmış demesin, 2014 yılında serinin 26.
kitabı da çıkmış bulunmakta.Bu kitapta yine ana karakterimiz Drizzt bir türlü kurtulamadıkları Crystal Shard’ı yok etmek için çalışmaktadırlar ancak yine eski karakterlerimizden bir tanesi Jarlaxla geri döner ve bütün planı altüst eder.Fantastik kurgu sevenler için yine hızlı okunan, temel fantastik kurgu öğelerini içinde barındıran bir kitap.Reviewed on January 03, 2015Plot 7/10Characterization 5/10Style 7/10Setting 7/10Entertainment 8/10Overall 3.4/5.0
This is a bad book in my opinion.
This is a filler in my opinion.
A repetitive book with everything that happened in other books.
More of Drizzt self introspection.
This book is only valuable because of Entreri.This book made me get away from the Realms.
I want to return and probably will with the War of Spider Queen.
I really hope it's better (written by other writers).I have bought each and Drizzt stories until Companions because I believe Salvatore can salvage himself.
I really hope he returns to his former self.
Salvatore doesn't disappoint - he still seemlessly develops the characters (making sure to portray them in all their glory (or tragedy), injects some decent amounts of introspection from Drizzt's perspective (which still acts as a profound observation into the human condition), and of course, definitely brings the action.
Best companions of the hall book since the crystal shard. Artemis and Wulfgar have both evolved beautifully, and Salvatore has cemented his place as my favorite author with this and the precedding books
This book was fantastic and brought back many of the characters I really enjoyed reading about in the previous books. On top of the return of previously loved characters, Salvatore sends some of them in such varying paths that I'm excited to once again see where everything ends up.
Amazing book, well writen, always surprising you in new ways in the wonderful world they put the characters in. A band of friends set out on a journey to destroy Crenchinibon, a corrupting crystal with dark magics trapped inside.
Salvatore returns us to the adventures of Drizzt and his companions. This series starts off with some dark tones hinting at what the future holds. This could be a grim tale for the companions, as seen by Wulfgar's torment.
Great start to another 4 book Drizzt series. Still a feel good adventure story for in between. Wulfgar with PTSD is hilarious.
This book literally stole my breath away at the end. I won't post spoilers, but this book was great. I could not put it down without thinking and wondering what was going to happen next.
How much pointless, boring combat can one book contain?
"Loss of empathy might well be the most enduring and deep-cutting scar of all, the silent blade of an unseen enemy, tearing at our hearts and stealing more than our strength" (11-12). My Rating 5 stars Book Series Book 11 of the Legend of Drizzt series (30+ books). My Thoughts I'm so glad to be able to rate this book 5 stars. I've had problems with the last two, however this book was perfect!First, we get Entreri (my favorite) and his return to Calimport. Calimport is my second favorite setting
Book 11 of the Legend of Drizzt series (30+ books).
I've had problems with the last two, however this book was perfect!First, we get Entreri (my favorite) and his return to Calimport.
Though I haven't yet read Spine of the World, so far I liked Wulfgar's story, and I liked how Drizzt and the friends handled it.
I mean he was tortured for six years by a demon balor, and though the demon balor isn't realistic, the pain and trauma that Wulfgar endured (in this fictional setting) was real.
It wasn't what you thought you signed up for when starting this series, but I think that's what made it feel more real.
I was hoping that Paths of Darkness would offer a new, exciting start (especially given how the last book ended) and I think at the end it did deliver a fun adventure, but the predilection with Wulfgar, who sort of randomly became a villain as soon as he became engaged to Catti-Brie (I distinctly remember starting whichever book that was and thinking, wait, why is Wulfgar a jerk now?) really took away from my enjoyment, which is a shame.
I'm just hoping future books will spend more time with the Companions' viewpoints and a little less on the Drow (at least for a while) and Entreri.
Silent Blade, the 11th Drizzt book, begins a fresh new adventure for the Companions of the Hall.
Wulfgar struggles with inner demons until he finds a place as a bouncer for a rough tavern in Luskan, where he has a great time bashing heads and drinking booze.
Character development is the primary thing that stands out in this book.
Wulfgar, Entreri, and Jarlaxle especially grow as characters.
The book ends with most of the characters being at peace with their place in life, but also with a feel of danger on the horizon that makes you look forward to the rest of the series.
As it pains me to say, the Drizzt series at this point is in a painful state of decline.
Of all the friendship alliance characters include, Wulfgar has been my least favorite and unfortunately, the focus here is on him, and his plot line is tiresome.
Tragedy strikes a key character, the downward spiral ensues based on self destruction and alcohol.
I tend to hope at some point the redemption occurs and we move on from this.
For those expecting the 11th entry of the Drizzt series to be focused on Drizzt, don't get your hopes up, much of the story is based on Wulfgar and the antagonist.
How do I rate one Drizzt book over another?
They are all so great, and there isn’t much room to distinguish on a 5-point scale.As always, Salvatore let’s you into the emotions that each of the characters is feeling marvelously.
The action continues to rate second to none other than I have read.
I continue to love Wulfgar above all other characters in the series.
His amazing feats of strength are fun to read about.The Silent Blade was still a lot of fun to read, and I would recommend it, along with the series, to anyone.
I loved this book. I took a break for two years or so and decided to pick the series back up recently and I really love where he went in this one. People seem to have issues with Wulfgars drinking but I thought it was really well done, that he would come back and be unable to cope with life and have to turn to that. Salvatore really does an amazing job with character development and relationships, the only part that I am a little tired of is Drizzt's dairy. Might be my favorite book of the series so far.
The legend of Drizzt continues with empathy as the main thought of this book. Wulfgar has lost his empathy and has to find his way. The crystal shard has found a way make trouble for Drizzt and companions, as they venture toward Cadderly to rid themselves of the artifact. Meanwhile, Artemis Enterri goes home to find a completely changed city, realizing he too, has changed. The book has a fantastic ending for fans of the master sword fighters.
