https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/300674.To_Hell_and_Back
I have a good friend in the Washington, D.C. area who visits Audie Murphy’s grave every time she goes to Arlington, so this book has been on my to-read list for a while.I enjoy memoirs that can bring out several extreme emotions, and this one, written by America’s most decorated WWII combat vet, makes the list.
Her daddy never came home.) (hide spoiler)]It’s amazing Murphy survived the war, but surviving was hard on him when so many of his friends were killed or wounded.
(hide spoiler)]If you’re looking for a big-picture book on the campaigns in Sicily, Italy, and Southern France, this isn’t it.
Update: I read this memoir several years ago and am now about 50% through Beyond Band of Brothers The War Memoirs of Major Dick Winters.
Not daring to stick a head up, let alone climb out of the foxhole, Murphy's buddy gets the idea of shooting down the branches with his machine gun, and soon they are delighted to have cherry branches falling on them, making the day just a little brighter.Not once does Murphy mention his numerous awards, Clearly, Murphy believed that luck played as much a part in his survival as anything he did.
Jedan od najboljih vojničkih memoara koje sam ikad pročitao.
Audie Murphy je najodlikovaniji američki vojnik drugog svjetskog rata.
uz 27 američkih odlikovanja (uključujući i kongresnu medalju časti) dobio je i 5 odlikovanja europskih zemalja (uključujući i legiju časti).
iz njegovih se ratnih uspomena to uopće ne bi dalo zaključiti.
nit jedno odlikovanje nije spomenuo.
unapređenje u časnika opisuje kao maltene slučajan događaj.priču priča na malo.
radi seisključivo o odnosima među vojnicima, osjećaju gubitka zbog palih suboraca, vojničkom dobacivanju, cinizmu, umoru ratom.
jedan od memoara 'na malo', gdje se ne spominju velike bitke i kampanje, nego doživljaj rata sa samog dna.
Murphy's memoir is NOT about Nazism or racism or genocide, it's about the war that came about in Hitler's rein.
Despite the fact that I believe this: I understand enough to know that there was little option at the time because the truth is, you can't reason with hatred.
They call Murphy's the lost generation and the more I read this memoir the more I understood that, it's easy to say that the soldiers that came back were changed but it's hard to comprehend the level of damage that war did even to those who "survived" it.
About 5 pages in "To Hell and Back" I thought the banter between GIs was witty, though a little too planned for a 5th grade drop out like Audie Murphy, not that I'd begrudge him a little editing assistance.
And I remember as a kid watching the movie 'To Hell and Back' in which the reluctant Murphy was talked into playing himself.
Despite what almost became his full name 'America's most decorated soldier', there is no mention of the medals in his book, no boasting, just a tell it like it was tale, and I wished I'd read it sooner.
The thing that most set this war story apart from others that I've read is that Murphy neither glorifies nor vindicates the war throughout his memoirs. The pages trudge on like a road march and seep through with exhaustion and pain (peppered with camaraderie) that's grimly accepted until it's over.In the Army, we're force-fed the name "Audie Murphy" until we're about sick of it. I was glad to find out that he wasn't a bombastic, self-aggrandizing bastard, to be honest. He was just a normal joe in extraordinary circumstances.
Being the author and actor of the same title is great. It concentrates on the Platoon's growing mature, descriptions of battles and soldiers surviving injuries. Audie Murphy rises from private to lieutenant dealing with "brother" loses (Brandon, Errigan, Novak, Swope and more).
Inspirational! This book is what made me start reading WW2 history and military books.
Murphy then became enraged, ran up a hill, directly at the machine gun position - the Germans presumably too surprised to react.
Outnumbered, they retreated, but Murphy stayed behind, took up position in a burning tank (tank destroyer actually), alternating between calling in artillery strikes using the vehicle's radio, and using its machine gun to fire on the Germans.The Germans couldn't work out where the firing was coming from, because they never imagined someone could be inside a burning tank that could blow sky high at any moment!This action ended up with him calling in artillery fire right on top his own position!
I've read and re-read this book many times. For several years I worked with a fellow who had been a scout in Murphy's platoon (Irv Tischler) and who was present when Murphy intiated the action that led to his Medal of Honor. Anyone with any sense, Tischler said, got up and ran in the opposite direction. Murphy was convinced that nothing would ever happen to him, and he was almost right. A number of times he was the sole survivor (or sole officer survivor) of incidents that killed everyone else.
Actually, it's right there with Forgotten Soldier by Guy Sajer, almost a twin book.
This one has its own specialty though: Insane amounts of humor interspersed with tragedies of war.
There's so much wisecracking lines documented from soldiers, one comes to think war is one hell of a catalyst for stand up comedians.
Thinking about how good of a movie script the whole book would be, I just found there's indeed a movie of the same title, with Murphy in the role of himself, from 1955.!
And it has good rating on IMDB, and I'm going to watch it in a few minutes.
Growing up I remember watching Audie Murphy Westerns with my Dad and had no idea of his life before becoming a movie star.
That changed when as a teenager I watched "To Hell and Back" and found out that this was his own story!
He was the most decorated soldier of WW2.
When all of his friends, one by one, are killed you can see why soldiers retreat and isolate themselves from making new friends.In those days there was no diagnosis of PTS Syndrome, they called it shell shock.
Sadly he was killed in a plane crash while only in his 40's.
I loved this book. Sometimes I would stop enjoying it as a well written story and remember that this was an auto-biography. When one of the guys killed his good friend by accident it was heart wrenching. The way that these men are so close, honest, and crude when death is always at hand, is a side of life we rarely live. Audie is witty and the characters are incredibly colorful and real. "I have seen war as it actually is, and I do not like it."
Really different from any other war book I've read. It's all first person, reads more like a series of extended journal entries. There's no backstory, no history, no maps. You're just there, experiencing the war day to day with Audie Murphy. Makes you really appreciate the soldiers that went through this and other wars, and very thankful that I haven't had to.
I learned of this guy while looking for summer activities for AJ and came across the Cotton Museum/Audie Murphy Museum. I looked him up and was intruigued. He was the most decorated soldier of WWII. This is his biography and reads like a war movie. I couldn't put it down. I can't believe people can experience those kinds of things and move on.
This is an excellent depiction of what a Soldier and a leader experience in combat, and it comes from the best. If you're going to read any autobiographies or first-hand accounts of war, then read this one.
You get a real sense of what it is like to be in the midst of war. Sometimes I felt that it read more like a movie script than a memoir but then it gave the book life.
But some are simply exceptional, and this is one of those books.Both hilarious and deeply tragic, fascinating and awful, Audie Murphy's account is very well written and engaging.
Its one of those books I read slowly, to savor as opposed to ripped through because they are so fun I can't wait for the next page.Murphy is incredibly humble and even goes so far as to credit one of his fellow soldiers for a poem he apparently wrote.
Men who did what they had to do, no matter how tired, awful, terrified, or empty they felt.
Men who were there and did what was right at all costs.The interplay between the different characters is simply amazing, often gut busting.
So he didn't get in on the war until Italy, but he made up for lost time once he was there.
He was wounded several times, but kept running off from the hospital to rejoin his unit.
The copy I read has a rather lurid cover, but I'm glad I didn't let that put me off.
I couldn't help but feel like I was right in the middle of the fighting.
This is going to be another top read of the year.
Reading Audie Murphy's account of his World War II experiences in "To Hell and Back" is a surreal experience.
Many of the characters in the book seem like stereotypes.
The reason these characters appear in so much fiction about war is because they appeared in the reality of Audie Murphy's war.
I don't think any book has ever been written that better captures what war feels like from the perspective of the men fighting it.
I will only say that this is a book that should be read by anyone with an interest in World War II or the men who fought it.
Audie painted himself as a self-righteous punk early on in the book, likely with the point of contrasting how the war changed his outlook, his demeanor, and his attitude.
The writing was decent, the story fantastic, and a much more 'real' look behind our lines in the war.
Not focusing quite as much on the terrible aspects of the war as other books, yet pushing across a very vivid picture of just how bad it was for our soldiers, as well as for the German soldiers and civilians.A good read, one any military history fan should have already consumed.

Considering Murphy was the most decorated soldier from WWII, this book has immediate appeal. The story is filled with action throughout with occasional reflections on the nature war and the men who serve. I would have liked to learn more background information about Murphy and his comrades to help connect more with those fighting.
Started out okay, but after getting used to the style of righting (mostly in the first person), I really enjoyed it. The author wrote of his and his units exploits in a very unassuming way, never blowing his horn, but always mentioning the exploits of others in the unit when with him. A leader that lived his leadership, always looking out and giving credit to his men.
Very good WW II journal written in 1949. You will appreciate all of those who served in keeping the United States free. If you are not grateful when finished reading you don't appreciate your own freedom.
Told by the services that he was just to small he became the most decorated American Soldier of World War II.The story of a man who wanted to do what he could for his country. This story is written so simple by a true hero that really did not feel that he was one.
[Audio:] A sobering account of this WWII veteran's tour of duty in the European Theater. Humbling, agonizing, at times humorous, Murphy does a great job of providing the reader with a sense of the bone-weariness of infantry life along with the gruesome nature of war.
This was a really great quick read. It's like a WWII version of all Quiet on the Western Front. It pulls no punches about what combat was like and the men that make up the characters in the story are hilarious. Horrifying and funny at the same time.
I'm currently reading this one and it's great! Sure there is blood and guts but mostly emphasizes the relationships between the men. Excellent living history book! Can't wait to finish it!
Murphy probably doesn't need any introduction, but for those who might need one, he was one of the most decorated U.S combat soldiers of World War II.
Murphy wrote the book with ghostwriter David "Spec" McClure, who served in the U.S. Army's Signal Corps during World War II.I read this book at least three or four times when I was in late grade school, junior high and high school.
First off this is a memoir of a soldiers time in combat.
This is also centered largely on Murphy's time in combat.
