https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/9799.The_Fortress_of_Solitude
It might be deemed a coming of age novel except its two central characters, Dylan (white) and Mingus (black), whom we meet when they are both twelve, never grow up even though by the end of the novel they are both in their thirties.
Ironically the impoverished Brooklyn neighbourhood where they live does grow up, does become a responsible adult: by the time Dylan is in his thirties, it has become gentrified.
It’s also a brilliant depiction of urban New York in the 1970 and 80s, especially with regards to the roles played by graffiti and music.
I mean, how else to explain these people's baffling love for this unmitigated piece of garbage, which much like Augusten Burroughs presents a ridiculously overwritten, pop-culture-laced memoir of 1970s Gen-X childhood, featuring excruciatingly precious slang-filled magic-realism dialogue and with insanely too much gravitas assigned to such plotless meanderings as kids watching bad television and eavesdropping on their intellectual parents' insultingly banal conversations?And then I realized -- oh, right, of course, this is an early-2000s novel by a white academe about how much white people suck (specifically, the story of the "re-whitening" of Brooklyn starting in the late '70s, after the New York borough turning into an ethnic slum following World War Two, a process called "gentrification" that has by 2009 turned nearly the entire city into a Caucasian hipster fantasyland); and man, if there's one thing that's become an undeniable truism by now, it's that back in the '90s and early '00s, academes tended to automatically fall in love with preciously overwritten screeds by self-loathing white males about the horrors of their fellow Caucasians, with the same kind of burning passion that, say, dogs love licking their own f-cking balls.F-CK YOU, SELF-LOATHING GRAD STUDENTS!
As the main character grows up (an exaggeration for the emotionally underdeveloped thirtysomething he is by the end), he becomes a wanky, self-absorbed snob-rock geek, which may have been awesome during the peak of High Fidelity's popularity (totally Lethem's generation) but is definitely not interesting to me at this point.
If Lethem (or his main character, Dylan Ebdus, who's hard do distinguish from Lethem himself) stopped for one moment to look at his unique story critically instead of putting it on a pedestal or using it to defend himself from reality, the book would be ten times better.
Raramente mi sono sentita così ignorante leggendo un libro, al punto da chiedermi frequentemente "ma io dov'ero?" Ad esempio, non sapevo che la Fortezza della Solitudine fosse il rifugio segreto di Superman, tanto per cominciare dal titolo...
Il mio orecchio distratto, e tanto meno l'occhio, non è stato mai colpito dal fatto che la Marvel fosse la casa editrice storica dell'Uomo Ragno, di X-Men, dei Fantastici Quattro, di Hulk tanto per citarne qualcuno, ad esempio...
Anche la succitata spaldeen non faceva parte del mio immaginario collettivo, ad esempio...
mai consultato YouTube così frequentemente leggendo un libro...
Video-review: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5F9Gf...An epic tale of gentrification and crushed hopes, The Fortress of Solitude is one of the densest books I've ever read, each page packed with lives and dreams and misery. It's depressing as fuck and crazy on so many levels, but for the sheer glow of its ambitiousness, it's a pleasure to read for anyone who's passionate about American literature and culture.
To describe a book like Fortress of Solitude to someone not already familiar with Mr. Lethem's work requires a lot of qualification.
Come up with something absolutely bonkers, like magic rings (Fortress of Solitude, this book) or a former child star colluding with a mutant crustacean to take over the world (a different Lethem story, "Interview with the Crab") or exo-suits that give normal people the physical attributes of great NBA players of yesteryear ("Vanilla Dunk").
I imagine a man who's up to such a challenge derives a great deal of satisfaction from it.
You'd think Jonathan Lethem's work would be right up the mainstream's alley.
The story centers around Dylan Edbus, a young white boy sent to public school in a nearly all-black neighborhood in 1970’s Brooklyn, New York.
Despite their differences in family (Dylan from white hippies, Mingus from a cocaine-addicted, formerly popular black singer), they soon share disappointments in that area.
Even though the story finishes fantastical and strong (with one of the rare successful surrealistic uses of what could be superhero powers), the drop from the peak set by the first part of the book leaves the reader in too low of a valley to ignore.
What a shit storm. This is one of the more plodding books I have engaged in my time as a reader. It ranks up there with one of the only other books I have abandoned, Updike's Rabbit, Run. Updike and Lethem also hold the distinction of being some of the worst writers of prose I have encountered. My god, I hate the way they write.Not recommended.
I FINALLY FINISHED THIS BOOK WHAT YEAR IS IT
Ako postoji neko pravilo poluautobiografske književnosti, onda ono piscu nalaže da ostane vjeran atmosferi i osjećanjima koje pamti iz vremena o kome piše, a događaje i likove može po želji da dodaje, izostavlja i na razne načine mijenja.
Očito, za Džonatana Letema formativne godine su one do osamnaeste.Drugi dio knjige zapravo je nepotrebno produžen epilog.
Umjesto da fokus stavi na rješavanje teško razumljivog simbola čarobnog prstena i snažan zaključak, Letem kompromituje svoju inače vrhunsku prozu razvlačeći priču u nekoliko pravaca, na sporedne likove i marginalne događaje, i dajući nepotrebna objašnjenja pomalo potcjenjuje čitaoca.
ma povero Franzen.........tutto solo nella stanzetta senza telefono né internet per scrivere il grande romanzo americano, poi arriva un altro e scrive questo libro qua
il ragazzino che cresce nella brooklyn degli anni settanta subendo un razzismo al negativo, ma stringendo anche quello che resterà a dispetto di tutto il legame più vero della sua vita.
mentre mi chiedevo quale versione di kryptonite narrativa avrei trovato nella stanza più interna della fortezza (il titolo del romanzo è citazione da superman, sì), che mi avrebbe steso o ferito gravemente, tutto ha iniziato a incastrarsi da sé.
come c'è una fortezza della solitudine in cui si prova a regolare dei conti, con se stessi prima che con la vita.
Well, this is the one. If you only read one book this year, read this one. It's devastating, brilliant, all those things the blurbs say it is.
“Fortezza della Solitudine” è il nome del rifugio segreto di Superman.
Nel romanzo di Lethem, in effetti, i supereroi bazzicano parecchio, e non solo come personaggi dei fumetti: tra i protagonisti - è bene dirlo subito, anche come preavviso - gira un anello che li può rendere invisibili, o capaci di volare.
E ancora una volta ho considerato quanto gioverebbe a certi autori, soprattutto d’oltreoceano, lo sfrondamento, l’elisione del troppo.
Midway through:Fortress has been sitting on my shelf for over a year.
A recent trip (just returned) to NYC, Manhattan, and a dip of the toe into Brooklyn (DUMBO and W'Burg mostly) helped elevate this book to the top of the list.
Indeed, Fortress has thus far lived up to it's reputation, both among GoodReaders and the Lit World in general.
I've been waiting for awhile now for a fiction book to bring back from non-fiction, and this was it.
It has all the elements a great book should have: well-written, a great story line, characters with depth that truly pull you in to the story.
Now this is a novel - I'm very impressed with my first Lethem, and I look forward to the rest of his stuff.Rich writing, fully immersion into the atmosphere of 1970s Brooklyn - every single aspect of it. Comics, music, school life, everything. I often hear of a disparity between the two parts of the novel, but I didn't particularly notice any decline.A fine book. I look forward to more.
The settings and descriptions often felt very research-derived, as if Lethem boldly ignored the whole "write what you know" thing and used second-hand accounts as source material.
Also the device of using Rhino-style boxed set liner notes as a way to outline the history of a group, complete with a male member who became a hairdresser and died of "pneumonia," is pretty brilliant, especially if you're the type who actually reads liner notes.Perhaps Fortress would make a better movie than novel.
In fiction, I feel like you can't use music to set ambience and create atmosphere in the way Lethem intended.
This intentional oversight caused a minor dust-up between the two back in the early Noughties.Lethem writes a great sentence, that much seems clear to me.
Lethem writes it like this:Old Ramirez stood in front of his store and sipped a Manhattan Special and squinted at them from under his fisherman's hat.
He was beyond appeal, watching them like television.Such perfect use of simile here: not only can Dylan expect no help from neighbors whom he can clearly see, his impending humiliation will also function as entertainment, a channel endlessly diverting.
I finished this book and I think I enjoyed it.
I didn't love it, but it was an interesting read.
Still, something felt missing, and I have orbited around this review for several days, unsure of what I wanted to say or how.
Then, unfortunately for Jonathan Lethem, I started reading Americanah by Chimamanda Ngozi Adichie, and with one sentence, she sort of demolished this whole genre.
This isn't to say that I suddenly didn't enjoy the book, but the distance I was feeling from it crystallized.Note: The rest of this review has been withheld due to the changes in Goodreads policy and enforcement.
Two motherless boys grow up next door to one another: Mingus Rude, son of an R&B singer, and Dylan Ebdus, son of a University Professor, grow up together on their block following first their passion for comic books (the title is drawn from the name of Superman's secret base in the Arctic) and later their love of graffiti and hip-hop.
First and foremost a tale of friendship's makings and falling apart, Lethem also adds a healthy dose of race, class, gentrification, loyalty, and memory to create on of the most satisfying coming of age stories that I have ever read.
Along with The Bronx is Burning which alternates the stories of The New York Yankees and the hunt for The Son of Sam it captured New York in the late 70's perfectly.
La Fortaleza70s, 80s, 90s. Ciencia ficción. Cómics: superhéroes. Brooklyn, NY. Adolescencia, amistad, paternidad, divorcio. Nombres como Dylan y Mingus, ah, y un magic ring. Diseño gráfico. Graffiti. Interracial. Música. Drogas. Literatura. Multirreferencialidad. Todo dentro de una de esas mal llamadas novelas autobiográficas, o semi-autobiográficas.  ¿Qué demonios se creen que es una novela? ¿Es necesario seguir marcando los libros con un género literario? Géneros que desde tiempos de Platón se
Muy por encima del tiempo y de la ubicación geográfica, lingüística y cultural que me separan de alguien como Jonathan este es un librote, en el mejor sentido de la palabra.
No. Pero es un gran libro que vale la pena leer para todo aquel que se pueda sentir interesado por una interpretación de cualquiera de las etiquetas temáticas mencionadas en el primer párrafo.
Pero, para develarse es necesario descifrar un momento, una época, un antes y un después de ese pequeño Big Bang, de esa eclosión que significa «venir al mundo», de ahí el grueso, literal y figuradamente, de este libro.
Lethem’s special irritating self-aware post-ironic, hipper-and-more-well-read-than-thou attitude can be read allllll over this book (it was, at times, almost a “fictional” extension of his Disappointment Artist essays, and I wished I had started with the novel first, so as not to roll my eyes so disdainfully and so often) – basically I hated all the childhood and race commentary rendered by adult Dylan Ebdus and grooved way more on, like: a boy, his hippie parents, his best friend, their reckless boyhoods and painful adolescences and Brooklyn.
Brooklyn.I think there’s also something to be said for the fact that it took me WEEKS to slog through the first 250 pages of this novel and I finally had to make a concerted effort to knock the remaining pages out, and now that it’s finished I kind of want a shower?
Maybe now that I myself am older and lamer like the character gets in the book, I'd be able to relate better, and it wouldn't bother me so much....
Anyway, I liked this book a lot.
The majority of it's amazing, enough so to make up for the crummy bits, which probably aren't actually that crummy, but only seemed so by comparison.You have to get up pretty early in the morning to write a story-of-young-Jewish-Brooklyn-boy-who-loves-comic-books-coming-of-age that I will love, and Jonathan Lethem obviousky gets up pretty frikkin' early, like way earlier than, say, Michael Chabon, or a lot of the other guys out there.
Here's the story's major flaw: The ability to fly and become invisible is bestowed to anyone who possesses the magic ring, left to Dylan by a bum that his father saved from the streets.
Generally, the parts about early youth are the best part of this book.The last part describing Mingus's life in various prisons is also very strong, some of the best writing in the novel.The story jumps to some lackluster scenes in his mid 30s in San Francisco, then back to his college days at Bennington[Camden], which are more interesting.
Dylan, il bianco, subisce le angherie dei ragazzi neri del ghetto, Mingus, il nero, cercherà di proteggere l'amico dai soprusi ma sarà trascinato dal padre, perennemente insoddisfatto, verso i meandri della droga, vero cancro della società di quell'epoca.In mezzo a questa storia di razzismo al contrario, violenze e droga, si intrufolano anche altri aspetti dell'America anni '70: la musica, soul, R&B, punk, rap, i tags, una sorta di timbro lasciato ognidove per segnare il territorio e i fumetti della Marvel, con i loro personaggi che consentono di evadere dalla realtà.
Non nego che la musica-disco citata nel libro mi era stranota anche se mi ha sempre fatto ribrezzo).
The entire time I was reading I couldn't stop thinking about how much I hate Jonathan Lethem.
Maybe this was on purpose, but I'm not sure why Lethem thought it was important to present us with yet another white male's construction of blackness.
You can tell Lethem's got this weird fetishistic relationship with the word and he tries to project it onto black characters.
I found myself questioning wether or not certain parts (Liner Note and Prisonnaires) were written poorly on purpose.Despite (or maybe because of) all of these problems, I still liked the book.
I feel like the ending really saved this book for me.
I found the beginning interesting, but had a hard time working through the middle.
The race relations in this story seemed very nebulous and conflicted; I may be reading too much into it, but it seemed like the author spoke through Dylan, who was continuously coping with or processing his childhood in a predominantly black neighborhood of Brooklyn.
Also, memo to Lethem--there is more to my neighborhood than the Brooklyn Detention Center, ok?
I know it's tall, but you don't have to bring it up 50 times and ignore every other building surrounding it.
Jonathan Lethem has a unique talent for fantastic narrative structure-- just really great structural chops-- paired with dreadful, dreadful phrasing. Just horrible, embarrassing, aching-to-be-hip kind of descriptions (on the shit list there with Richard Russo and Michael Cunningham).But the thing is, the sum works. It's a good story, a fully realized novel. Flawed, yes, cloying, sometimes, but a very worthy summer read, and often damn fun.
In brief: No. This book doesn't do it. At all. At any time. I grudgingly give Lethem credit for trying to write the "Great American Novel," but it comes off short and ends up being overtly pretentious. And I can't believe they still wheel this guy out at every literary event happening within 50 miles of Brooklyn. Stop! Please, stop!
