https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/10929432-the-archived
It might seem like my whole life revolves around victoria schwab but yes it does
Two years in my brain and more than a year putting it on the page properly. I can't wait to be able to share it.
All this drama happening in the hushed hallways of a library setting somehow felt pretty creepy.* The narrative voice felt comfortable and real.* This isn't written in a fast-paced sci-fi thriller kind of way, and I liked the slower pace and somewhat contemplative tone.* The part of the story involving mysterious murders in an old hotel-turned-apartment-building was intriguing, and the way the clues gradually reveal themselves is enjoyable.* I really liked some of the characters, especially the stern Roland, an older Librarian who mentors Mackenzie.Things that were just fine:* The romantic interests.
This book was AMAZING. Everybody needs this book in their life. Do yourself a favor and pick this up ASAP.
It's so unique and the writing just hit me and the characters were all tortured and adorable and somewhat sassy -- AND QUITE FOND OF BAKED GOODS -- so basically I am Schwab trash and not even sad about it.Also I hear the 3rd book is like...never ever coming out???
(I ordered the sequel though, so let me read that, and then slay me.)What really REALLY hit me (omg violent little book) was how unique the story was!
Thinking back, I don’t remember ever reading something quite like this story before.
Someone killed a History, in Mac’s own room, and she needs to find who did it.Even if the pacing starts off pretty slow, the story does pick up and upgrades its speed to a most engaging one as chapters go by.
See, most of the secondary characters, except for Mac’s dead brothers, Wesley, Roland and the Histories she is strongly helping, feel one-dimensional.
He was the most entertaining of them all.What I really didn’t like about the main character though was how easily and often she lied.
*2.5*HEAR ME OUT.I really loved the intricate world that Victoria Schwab created, and her writing was great as usual.
The plot fell so flat for me, and I couldn't bring myself to care about anything that was happening.
One redeeming factor aside from the world building was WESLEY.
who knows.), but I will definitely be checking out more of Victoria's books in the future (because she is a goddess).NoteI have already read Vicious (and loved it), so I might just enjoy her adult books more, but I'll have to read more to be able to say for sure.
Victoria Schwab crafts another beautiful and unique story. Plus, guyliner.
"Curiosity is a gateway drug to sympathy."•Do you know when you start a book with preconceptions and you somehow end up liking/not liking the book exactly in the degree you knew you would? Well, I started this book with preconceptions. I liked just as much as I thought I would. That is, a lot.•Since I am fairly sure you grew tired of my eulogies of Schwab's writing a long time ago, I redirect you to my reviews of A Darker Shade of Magic,  A Gathering of Shadows  and This Savage Song. Generally s
That is, a lot.•Since I am fairly sure you grew tired of my eulogies of Schwab's writing a long time ago, I redirect you to my reviews of A Darker Shade of Magic, 
Knowing how picky and hard to please I normally am, my constant and unshakable satisfaction with what comes out of this author's mind is probably the closest thing to a miracle I've ever seen or heard of in my life.•Of course, each one of Schwab's books has something that makes it absolutely unique.
Edit: I had so much fun rereading this beautiful book.
Victoria Schwab is definitely my favourite author.
Can't wait to read book two in this series.Victoria just gets me.
She writes the kinds of books I desperately need in my life.
Books with such unique plots and world-building.
Books with characters that I attach myself to with my entire heart.
Books that keep me up way past my bedtime because I just can't stop reading.
I wish people discussed these earlier books of hers more, because this was brilliant.
I can't wait to read book two.
Definitely one of my favourite authors.
Amazing story, beautifully written, and all around fantastic characters! AN EXCELLENT READ!
“Because the only way to truly record a person is not in words, not in still frames, but in bone and skin and memory.”This was stunning.I loved the beginning, the language, the setting and the whole concept.
Victoria Schwab can do some real magic with words, which is why I loved this book even more.
The Archived  is such a beautiful collection of words.
(Which doesn't keep it from being a great book)I have to admit that I really fell for some of the characters.
Everybody and everything just seemed so real.Please.
Write faster and give me more magic, Victoria.Find more of my books on Instagram
Two things:1. Wesley Ayers is a ray of sunshine in this drab, gray world.2. This reads like a more grown up version of City of Ghosts, and I’m here for it.Blog | Bloglovin’ | Instagram | Tumblr | Twitter
You know how when you first read a book's blurb and it totally catches your attention as something different and unique?
Like I said, truly fascinating and I think Schawb really pulled it off well.Mac was a fantastic main character.
Talk about being the bearer of bad news...) Because of that little complication, Mac has to sometimes fight the Histories, forcing them back to the Returns.
Sometimes Mac is narrating to the audience and other times she's chronicling her past Keeper lessons with her grandfather, but it's like she's narrating to him (ex.
“Ignorance may be bliss, but only if it outweighs curiosity. Curiosity is a gateway drug to sympathy.” The Archived: 4.25 stars  Reasons why reading it was worth it:•Victoria Schwab’s writing (so amazing <3)•Wesley Ayers•Wesley Ayers•Wesley Ayers yes somehow guyliner managed to squeeze and find a place in my heartThe Archived is a book that you learn to love more and more as time goes on. The beautiful descriptions and the spot on characters with flaws who get real time consequences for the
The Archived: 4.25 stars  Reasons why reading it was worth it:•Victoria Schwab’s writing (so amazing <3)•Wesley Ayers•Wesley Ayers•Wesley Ayers
yes somehow guyliner managed to squeeze and find a place in my heartThe Archived is a book that you learn to love more and more as time goes on.
I think with Victoria Schwab books I don’t feel pressured to read as fast as I can and instead I savour the way she writes and her descriptions of the places.
I am seriously becoming a huge fan of Victoria Schwab and the way she writes!
Curiosity is a gateway drug to sympathy.” Amazing unique fantasy/paranormal story, The characters were great except *you know who, the two pure evil assholes* i Loved Mackenzie but i hated to her attitude toward her mother, i really did.
The author did an amazing job because i honestly felt the mother and Mackenzie's pain through these pages.
My love for Victoria Schwab's books – and Wesley Ayers – knows no boundaries.
The romantic subplot is kept subtle at all times, never overpowering the main plot, which is a specialty of Schwab's books.
Don't mind me, I'll just keep gushing while you move on to the conclusion of this review.As with Schwab's other works, her recipe for The Archived was to create relatable characters, unique world-building, and a subtle romance, underpinned by her most beautiful and skilled writing.
Buddy read #1 with my favourite yam ever, Yammy aka Pragya   This masterpiece has got to be my all-time favourite Victoria Schwab book.
When Mackenzie’s family moves away to escape their gloomy past, Mackenzie begins to question all that her grandfather has taught her which leads her to notice a mysterious change overtaking the Achieve.Schwab has strung an incredible tale, nothing like her other work, and I’m ashamed to say I haven’t read it earlier.
!!!!!I suppose it doesn't matter how they get out. All that matters is they do. And when they do, they must be found. They must go back. The Writing and the Worldbuilding So I'm low-key freaking out a little because my current WIP has some parallels to this (afterlife, dead younger brother the female Mc wants to bring back to life somehow, and mystical access to memories through touch) and I know I can never top the Schwab, so wish me luck 🤞The first few chapters of this really didn't do it for
So I'm low-key freaking out a little because my current WIP has some parallels to this (afterlife, dead younger brother the female Mc wants to bring back to life somehow, and mystical access to memories through touch) and I know I can never top the Schwab, so wish me luck 🤞The first few chapters of this really didn't do it for me, I must admit.
The Librarians were definitely the least developed for all the time we see them in the story, but I expect to go deeper in the next book.I want the things most people don’t notice.
It’s confusing, it’s heartstopping. And it’s so unbelieveably Schwab, if you know what I mean.  We are nothing but recorded moments. There’s a reason I’m head over heels in love with her. The closest any author has come to this feeling Maggie Stiefvater, and while I’m more than happy to sell my firstborn for her, she just doesn’t have the magic Victoria Schwab does.  What if echoes through my head as I hunt.What if haunts me through the Narrows.What if follows me home. You read any review for th
There’s a reason I’m head over heels in love with her.
The closest any author has come to this feeling Maggie Stiefvater, and while I’m more than happy to sell my firstborn for her, she just doesn’t have the magic Victoria Schwab does.
You read any review for this book, it’s impossible to go further than two sentences without a mention of guyliner.
I certainly don’t have anything against Wesley Ayers (look, I'm as much in love with him as the next person) but, he’s no reason to read this book.
But hey, it’s a well known fact I’m Schwab trash.
3.5*I just didn't love it. I had been so super excited for this book when I first heard about it and I built up this idea in my head of what it was going to be and it just wasn't anything like that. I think had I have had lower expectations and no previous knowledge of the synopsis, I really would've liked this, but that just wasn't the case.
*4 KEEPER STARS* “Because the only way to truly record a person is not in words, not in still frames, but in bone and skin and memory.” All hail Victoria Schwab and her active imagination!This was another exciting and unique adventure and I can't wait to read more!
Striking fact# 1 : The writing was impressiveThe story is told from two different times : in present day, we follow Mackenzie, the youngest Keeper in the Archive organization (whose purpose is to keep the dead quiet on shelves), when her family moves in the Coronado Hotel whereas other parts let us have a glimpse of the memories of her training which took place years before - before her grandpa died.
3.75/5 “Everything is valuable, in its own way. Everything is full of history.” This was a very interesting read.The plot and story is kinda easy to follow (except for some parts toward the end) and at the same time it intrigued me a lot.I immediately liked that our girl, Mac had to restart her life after moving to a new place, the Coronado, following the death of her brother, Ben. I have a thing with that concept and I always find very interesting reading and seeing how people live when everyth
This was a very interesting read.The plot and story is kinda easy to follow (except for some parts toward the end) and at the same time it intrigued me a lot.I immediately liked that our girl, Mac had to restart her life after moving to a new place, the Coronado, following the death of her brother, Ben. I have a thing with that concept and I always find very interesting reading and seeing how people live when everything is different.
I think that this was mainly a mystery but a mystery with a twist.All the Histories' concept is very unique and I liked too how this plot developed.
Actual rating: 2.5 stars  Imagine a place where the dead rest on shelves like books.Each body has a story to tell, a life seen in pictures that only Librarians can read. The dead are called Histories, and the vast realm in which they rest is the Archive. Initial reaction when reading the blurb:  Yeah, I sooo want to read this! Reaction after finishing:  meh...Blurbs are one of the utmost misleading information to be given to a reader. Reading a blurb and thinking it sounds decent is like watchin
Imagine a place where the dead rest on shelves like books.Each body has a story to tell, a life seen in pictures that only Librarians can read.
So, in basic term you’ve got copies of these dead people stacked in a place called the Archive which is organized by the librarians, who are the only ones able to access it.
All Mackenzie did was catch dead people and put them into the Archive.
The setting in the book for the archived is in Coronado which is located in San Diego, but I’m pretty sure the author never stated that, however that’s not the problem.
"Knowledge is power, but ignorance can be a blessing."I'll be honest this started off a bit slow for me and I got a bit of trouble getting into it....but once I reached about half way through it picked up and I began to love this. Amazing concept and storyline with wonderful characters. I can't wait to move unto book two. Another great creation by  Victoria Schwab.
3.75!
my library!! has these!!
I added this book years ago and I want to read it so bad, but I’m not touching the series till we have more info about the third book *cries*
3.5 starsThis is my Book Of the Month- January 2017, with GR group- Nothing But Reading Challenges- Category: Young Adult BOM.The concept of this book is splendid-- The dead are called Histories, and the vast realm in which they rest is the Archive. Imagine, every live ever lived, all the memories in a library, secured! "The Outer, which you don't waste much breath on because it's everything around us, the normal world, the only one most people ever know about. The Narrows, a nightmarish place,
3.5 starsThis is my Book Of the Month- January 2017, with GR group- Nothing But Reading Challenges- Category: Young Adult BOM.The concept of this book is splendid-- The dead are called Histories, and the vast realm in which they rest is the Archive.
**Mild Spoilers Ahead**Mackenzie Bishop is a Keeper and her job is to ensure that the Histories remain in the Archive and do not escape to the Outer World.
I dream about this girl who looks like me and talks like me, but isn't me."
My problem with this concept was that Mac started as a keeper at the age of 12!!
