https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/325930.The_Happy_Hooker
Was the Happy Hooker Really Happy?Two years prior to reading this book in 1971, I had been kicked out of my religion.
I realized that there were things that I had wanted to learn about life since I had been so sheltered, so this book.
But then there were things I hadn’t wanted to learn, but I didn’t realize it then, and now they are imprinted in my mind and have remained there for all of these years.
I wish I had, but I would have had to learn them anyway, as they are in today’s news.I believe I liked my childhood better, when I was told that I was too young to know what the adults were talking about.
A young American guy we had met in a bar earlier in the week offered us rooms in a bed in breakfast.
We noticed erotic books on the shelves.A portly woman with short brown hair handed us keys and shoved us into hastily made up rooms in the upstairs of her house.
I had never heard of Xaviera Hollander, I was born in the eighties.
We stayed in bed all piled in, five of us reading outloud from this book.
What a way to be introduced to this crazy book.
We still get emails from Xaviera Hollander updating us on her life!
If one thing becomes clear in her biography - which describes how Xaviera grew up, took a flight to New York one day to be with a sucky boyfriend, then got a job as an escort to earn a few extra bucks and ultimately managed to become the notorious madam of a highly successful, illegal New York City brothel - it is that Xaviera has a refreshing 'the devil may care' take on life.
Thus she ordered her girls to put their toilet visits on hold for several hours and promised the one who managed to pee the longest a bonus.
I read this when I was 16. I hid it under my mattress and my mom found it, but she didn't take it away from me. It got passed around to so many people that it was falling apart by the time I got it back. I found out about things from that book that I didn't know you could do at the time!
And coming to realize that made me feel like the person who gets to page 599 of a 600-page abridgment of The Count of Monte Cristo before realizing that the novel was supposed to be 1100 pages long and I'd just spent several weeks reading the wrong edition.The reason I know this is because more than one person here on my friends' list on Goodreads mentioned a notorious passage in the book about Hollander's lascivious encounter with a German shepherd.
I mean, seriously serious trash with no redeeming social values but some eye-opening information about other people's sex lives that will make you say, "Get the fuckety fuck out of here.
With an umbrella??" I guarantee that unless you are Xaviera Hollander or someone likewise employed, something in this book will shock you at least a little (for me, it was the man who wanted to be fed poo, but only off of Delft china.
Xaviera objected because Delft china was a product of her native Holland and it's not like there's anything else wrong with that notion....) Is any of this true?
Back in my student days it was a genuine eye-opener. Now it'd sound like Cosmo.
I was young when I read this one.I learned that some people get paid for sex.It took me more years to understand that she got paid again for writing about it.Cool!

I recently met Xaviera Hollander at the drug store, and not knowing who she was, I complimented her on her scarf.
I'm Xaviera Hollander, the happy hooker!
And I bought a book, which she signed and I read.
Her story is interesting; I didn't know for instance that she and her family had been in a concentration camp in Indonesia when she was a child.
Mainly I realized how remarkable she was in espousing sexual freedom in the 70s - and now, in her 60s she persists in being happy about sex in all its forms.
A chance meeting led me to read this book, but I was glad I did.
Reviewed 2013:What a dirtalicious read for a 11 yr old in '78 in West Africa! Back then, I found it in my Mom's top draw and was besides myself... I know I got my ass wupped when I was found out! What to do but trudge on and read her "The Joys of Sex" and Harold Robbins books. Glad I'm reunited with this raunchy gem and gave 3.5 stars.
I mean, yeah, sure, this seems like a terrific idea. Note: according to several miffed Goodreads reviewers, the anniversary edition of this book has been sanitized, excising among other things a bit where she plays with a German shepherd which I'm sure is as wholesome as it sounds.
Really enjoyed this book. Things have stayed very much the same inside the 'underworld' of prostitution, this book could have been written yesterday. Love her style, flows well, applaud her honesty, quite inspirational. In fact must re-read this book.
Amazing stories of this Sensual woman who desired Sex, Sex, and more Sex! Hot stuff...... There is NO WAY I could keep up with all those things that she did!!!!!! Gotta read will have you saying WOW!
All I remember is the scene in which she gives the German shepherd a tugjob. Arf arf!
I picked it up just for laughs but found myself devouring the entire book in a day.The Happy Hooker is a landmark in sex-positive writing.
In a culture where prostitutes are still seen as immoral, shameless, lacking in dignity and deserving of abuse, Hollander's frank and blasé attitude to sex with both men and women still carries a frisson.I enjoyed Hollander's rise from an emotionally naive, bisexual secretary who enjoys 'fun times' to a powerful New York madam in control of every aspect of her business.
Let me first say that if you see my list of reviewed books, you see that I love biographies of many different types of people.
That being said, I was at an estate sale and picked up a bunch of old biographies (this was one of them).
I thought this book would be more about a woman who makes bad decisions, learns from them, changes, and makes the world a better place.
In fact, I'm not surprised that this book is not banned off of some shelves.
In het begin vond ik het boek wel interessant, omdat de schrijfster veel vertelde over haar leven.
Dan gaat het vooral over hoe het er aan toe gaat in een bordeel.
Zelf is ze eigenaresse geweest van een aantal bordelen.
Zo af en toe vertelt ze nog wel wat over zichzelf, maar het blijft toch wat aan de oppervlakte.
Toen dit boek uitkwam, was ik nog niet eens geboren, dus ik heb er dan ook niet veel over meegekregen.
Als je geïnteresseerd bent in dit onderwerp is het wel een aanrader.
Het boek leest vlot en heb je dan ook vrij snel uit.
I read this in 1972 when it first came out and remember liking it a lot. Today I saw it on someone's page and had to laugh, the title has always made me laugh. It would be fun to read again and see how mild it is by today's standard; in 1972 it was considered pretty raunchy. Kind of like when I re-read "Valley of the Dolls" about five years ago--boy have things changed.
I read this book when I was about 14 or 15. Unbelievable! First time I'd heard of the mile high club and her jacking a dog off at the pool, very freaky. I won't say this about any other book, but I was too young for this book. I hadn't even had sex yet and I'm learning of all this strange stuff.
I found this book in my attic when I was around the age of 12. I remember secretly reading it whenever I had some alone time lol. I threw it out mainly out of guilt! I have thought about that book occasionally over the years, and I just ordered it on line tonight.
Eens iets anders. Graag gelezen en eraan denken doet me nog steeds glimlachen
I seem to remember an event with a dog!
You start with curiosity, continue with an education of the sociology of the sex trade and end with a brief memory of an outdated story.
I picked this up at a library used book sale in small-town Franklin PA. This book is crazy. And crazy interesting too. I kind of felt dirty when reading it though but I don't regret it.
You really have to have an open mind if reading this book. Some chapters are disturbing and perverse, but in all an good read.
Yeah you kinda can't go ten pages early on reading this without having to walk away and cool yourself down.
She covers a lot of ground here, and it's interesting trying to translate 7o's prices into todays money.Gosh I wish I'd read this sooner.
I would have dodged some shitty relationships because of it!I don't know how much R.
Dunleavy had a hand in cultivating Xaviera's voice for the page, but I loved it.
Altho' you know X's downfall is due to her workaholic nature (she can't turn a client down) this volume is warm and provocative and intense!
I love this book! A very interesting read, and Ms. Hollander doesn't hold anything back. I remember reading this as a teenager, and just reread it recently, even better than I remembered.
I'm all for the right to 'do' whatever you want, but the author's insistence that it be turned into a legal business is going too far.
If you so desire have threesomes, orgies, and 'wild' parties.
All good relationships are built on trust and honesty, so if you want an open marriage then marry someone else who does.
Unfortunately there will always be people who are lead astray, but turning it into a legal business is going a tad too far.
I'm a sucker for trashy erotica if it's written well, which is why I gave this book three instead of one star.
I had never heard of Xaviera Hollander, or the book itself, so it was definitely a surprise read.While I liked how the book started, which told of her upbringing, her first sexual experiences, and her subsequent love of sex which led her to her career as a prostitute-turned-madam, the second half followed a different style.
While informative, I didn't like the writing style as much as the first half.
It's also made me question whether or not prostitution should be legalized, and I'm considering pursuing the topic for a paper in my graduate Professional Ethics course.If you're looking for a racy read and a glimpse into sexuality in the 70's compared to today, this is definitely a book to consider reading.
