https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/10637766-silence
I HAVE ONLY THREE THINGS TO SAY:ONE: THIS BOOK WAS SO-SO-SO FREAKIN' EPIC AND UNPUTDOWNABLE!!!!TWO: PATCH JEV CIPRIANO WAS THE BEST THING THAT EVER HAPPENED TO ME.THREE: I CANNOT WAIT ANOTHER FREAKIN' YEAR FOR THE NEXT BOOK!!!And if you haven't read Silence yet... READ IT NOW!
Kinda on hold right now. I just got tired of Nora trying to remember things that I already know.
Hush, Hush made me fall hard. Crescendo has taken my breath away and I cannot wait till Tempest. Becca Fitzpatrick is a true story teller, and I don’t want her to ever end Nora and Patches adventures.
This book sucked and I need to write better reviews.
“I love you.” His voice was straightforward, affectionate. “You make me remember who I used to be. You make me want to be that man again. Right now, holding you, I feel like we have a shot at beating all odds and making it together. I’m yours, if you’ll have me.” “If I lose you, I lose everything.” Oh my god!! I loved it!! Nora wasn't so annoying (amnesia did something good :P)And I will tell again and again and again I LOVE PATCH!!!!!!(view spoiler)[ 1) Hank is a jerk!! He caused her amnesia an
“I love you.” His voice was straightforward, affectionate.
I loved it!!
Nora wasn't so annoying (amnesia did something good :P)And I will tell again and again and again I LOVE PATCH!!!!!!(view spoiler)[ 1) Hank is a jerk!!
Wow what a good father!!!2) I love Scott but not with Nora :P3) I didn't like Vee in this book.
She didn't tell her about Patch..she is your best friend..don't lie to her!!!4)In this book, Nora's mother was stupid.
Love is blindness!!!
And she thinks that Patch kidnapped Nora while Hank kidnapped Nora!!
He was cute and he always wants to protect Nora..
Silence can be summed up in one meme:Bad Decision #1Upon waking up in a graveyard with no memory of how she got there or what had transpired, Nora kicks the shin of the first person who tries to help her and blunders away, possibly increasing the chances of running into her captors.Now normally, this a very sound reaction and fits in with Stranger Danger, but this is Nora we're talking about.
How dare she not base her dating options around my life?Grow the fuck up, Nora.Technically Not a Bad Decision, But Nora Acting Like a Bitch #8763012Remember Vee?
Fitzpatrick wrote Nora's lust to actually kill her captor like it was the sanest possible decision she could have made.Anyway, in the end Nora does kill the guy after her and Patch plan to keep him around for eternity to torture.
It was incredibly nauseating and even after three books, two covers with Patch on them, and a graphic novel coming out, I still have absolutely no idea what Patch is supposed to look like--and I don't give a damn.The Writing Never Got BetterI tried to understand the sloppy plot devices in Hush, Hush because it was Fitzpatrick's first novel.
The summary for this book is ridiculous. How can she get more drawn to Patch? This is like a bad teen soap opera.
And to think i was excited for the second book. A third book? Yay?I <3 Patch. Cannot wait, Fall 2011 is just too far away.
“I would lay down everything I possess, even my soul, for you. If that isn't love, it's the best I have.”  The book in which Nora is tortured, forgets the most significant months of her life and more importantly she forgets Patch. And then she bounces back and she fights.Because how can she forget Patch for long?They will meet in dreams.He will save her.She will chase him.She will remember his eyes.He cannot hide.He will tell her the truth. Black night, black fog. Black grass, black gravestones
If that isn't love, it's the best I have.” 
The book in which Nora is tortured, forgets the most significant months of her life and more importantly she forgets Patch.
And then she bounces back and she fights.Because how can she forget Patch for long?They will meet in dreams.He will save her.She will chase him.She will remember his eyes.He cannot hide.He will tell her the truth.
Black night, black fog.
Black grass, black gravestones.
A pair of black eyes watching me.
When the book finishes, Nora will not be the same girl any more.
This is definitely the best young adult series about angels and fallen angels.
What the WTF?! I have to wait til October?!!!I.HAVE.TO.READ.IT.NOW!!!
the lazy writer-things, such as the dream)___________________________Chapter 7 - Chapter 22 Recap: She has dinner with her mom and Hank, where she also meets Marcie, who tells her that Patch's been her summer fling and a common friend (but not that he's also Nora's boyfriend/exboyfriend).
Of course, in one of his other DEAR READER-speeches he explained that Hank promised to be out of Nora's life and he didn't, so Patch didn't feel the need to stay out of hers either and anyways, he's in love with her and all.
In other words I'm going to hide under my bed with the door locked and the curtains closed hoping with everything I have that the abductor will not come after me.
Scott has been hiding but they make plans for him to take Nora to the homecoming dance where she's been nominated by Marcie, her long-time nemesis, for being an attendent.
Enough about Scott.So, anyway, we find out that when Nora was kidnapped, her brain was wiped clean and that dear Patch, love of her life and all around hottie, asked her kidnapper that he wipe just a little bit more of her memories so it would be like he never met her.
i can't wait for this book i loooooved hush hush, i sooo fell in love with patch, read crescendo but i have to say i was a little disappointed with nora, she gets pushed around way to much and she just takes it, i read crecendo and finished it within 2 days and i love the way B.
im looking farward to this book but also looking farward to nora growing some balls and sticking up for herself, i mean yeh she acts all hard and mighty strong with patch but when it comes to marcy miller she is a doormat.
OH MY GOD! This was amazing!After reading Crescendo and being left with the world's worst cliffhanger, I dreaded having to wait a year for the final book of the series. But as Friday came along and I FINALLY snagged my copy, a few interesting things happened.1) I learned that there was going to be a FOURTH BOOK! IT CONTINUES! MORE PATCH! XDDD2) I finally read the synopsis. For a whole year I did not even click on the page of Silence. No idea why.3) My eternal love for Patch grew tenfold. Nuff s
This was amazing!After reading Crescendo and being left with the world's worst cliffhanger, I dreaded having to wait a year for the final book of the series.
But as Friday came along and I FINALLY snagged my copy, a few interesting things happened.1) I learned that there was going to be a FOURTH BOOK!
The first book will always be my favorite because of how they first met but Silence definitely surpassed my expectations.
He just loves Nora so much and this book really proves it.
“Fine! I'll throw on some clothes. Turn around. I'm in my pj's" "I'm a guy. That's like asking a kid not to glance at the candy counter.”(Nora and Patch quote.)Oh, yeah, because, hell, why expect guys not to peep at you while you're changing? That's just ridiculous. They're like children, you see. And you're like candy for him. They can't help themselves, don't be stupid. THEY R MENZZ. DUHHHH. I'm officially offended on behalf of males everywhere. No way am I reading this shit. Not even for the lulz.
I. NEED. TO. WAIT. UNTIL. FREAKING. OCTOBER?!?!?!!?!Not fair at all!That's like a whole freaking year!I NEED THIS BOOK NOOOOOOOOOOWW!
Ahhhh, don't you just love it when your half-angel/sexual predator/douchebag as well as your part time boyfriend takes you in your arms and is about to throw you into a tempestuous ocean during a storm while he wears fake wings like gender-bended Tinkerbell while your hair fans out as if you are in a Pantene advert? Oh the memories still make me weak at the knees(!) :')
If they don't find a way to make gorgeous Nephilim babies in the last book, I'll cry.
This was definitely a page turner. did not want to put it down
(where was that analogy even going, I literally have no clue??)I can’t help but adore Patch, he’s morally ambiguous (and definitely on the murkier side of the scale, too), but he’s so clearly trying, and honestly I’m just drawn to characters like that.
His and Nora’s dynamic towards the end is truly getting there- it definitely still needs work but I’m really hoping it keeps developing and progressing into the final book because it’s so damn close at this point.
Nothing can change that.”― Becca Fitzpatrick, Silence NOTE: I understand how hard it is to read criticisms of your work; something you've put your heart and soul into to write, and then publish.
And I understand why you, Becca Fitzpatrick, did that whole "be nice" thing.
Because I don't want to hurt your feelings in any way.......I'm supposed to be studying for my finals, but couldn't stifle the urge to come on here and make a few points about Silence, the third book in the Hush, Hush series.Okay.
I BET EVEN TWILIGHT WASN'T THIS POPULAR!!What is it about this series, about Patch and Nora, which draws thousands of readers in?
OCTOBER!!! NOOO!!!! MY LITTLE HEART JUST BROKE 3DAMMIT! THIS IS TORTURE! I NEED TO READ IT NOW!!
Read this entire book on my recent trip to Tampa. Still liking Patch a lot. Love the idea of the angel feather. Wasn't prepared for some of the things going on. Surprises around every corner. The cover is brilliant. Sometimes I like to just stare at it.
This has been my favorite so far of the series.
So much happens and theres a big change with Nora and she seems so much more like-able.
I loved the twists in this one and how every book has that great "Veronica Mars" feel to it.
I will definitely be finishing this series!
Her mom and best friend Vee are there for her trying to fill in the blanks but she can't help but feel something is missing.
When the truth pours out little by little she realizes she isn't the person she thought she was.
Will she like the person she has become?
Ugh. This book was honestly terrible. I feel like Becca is trying too hard to meet the obligations of her contract and the result is a poor storyline and a ridiculous heroine. I can't stand a stupid leading lady...
No se como la misma autora puede crear 2 personajes que para mi representan algo totalmente diferente.
Es solo el amor a Patch y a la historia en sí por la que uno continua leyendo.
Aunque me chocó un poco que otra vez viniera el mismo cuento del perro arrepentido, que si Patch protegiendo a Nora manteniendose oculto, gracias a las hadas de la sabiduría Becca reflexionó a tiempo y pues cambió el guión, GRACIAS.Mucho pudo haber sido condensado, pero sabemos que extendieron la historia para hacerla cuatro libros así que...
Este libro me hizo entender los desastres que el Hype puede llegar a hacer.
Ta autorka si při psaní knihy asi vařila nějaké houbičky, jinak opravdu nevím, neskutečné blbosti tam proplétala. Spoustu věcí by bylo třeba vystříhat... dočetla jsem a dostala parádní záchvat smíchu :D
"Abandoné algo que quería por algo que necesitaba. Y te necesito, Ángel. Más de lo que creo que nunca sabrás."Este es el mejor libro de la saga hasta ahora. El primero y segundo no me convencieron, pero en este se nota el crecimiento de los personajes y las situaciones que se dan te dejan sin poder apartarte del libro un minuto. Entiendo en este el porque muchas adoran a Patch. Espero el último libro sea igual o mejor.
