https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/13132816-emmy-oliver
“Well, that’s growing up, isn’t it?” my dad said. “You don’t always have to know. And things aren’t always fair. You just have to keep moving forward. A step in one direction.” Yet another book that has me wondering just what is going on in the book marketing/design world. With a title like Emmy & Oliver and the heart-shaped finger prints on the cover, pretty much everyone will pick this book up thinking they know exactly what they're going to get - a cute romance. In reality, this book is
With a title like Emmy & Oliver and the heart-shaped finger prints on the cover, pretty much everyone will pick this book up thinking they know exactly what they're going to get - a cute romance.
Rather, Emmy & Oliver is a coming-of-age story about friendships, family, growing up, life in a small town and learning to be something on your own, separate from your friends and family.
To call this a romance would grossly oversimplify a quiet, moving and funny story about all these important things.Emmy and Oliver were childhood best friends until Oliver's father kidnapped him as a kid.
Oliver is a main protagonist and at times it felt like everything revolved around him, so I’m really perplexed.
I say cute because she’s not original, or unique, or that interesting.
She’s just nice and lovely and cute.
It’s enjoyable to have her as a narrator because she’s easy to like, but I can’t say she awed me.
For such a ‘‘heavily’’ themed book, it’s pretty easy to read and fast-paced.
I don’t remember reading a story in which a kidnapping such as this one occurs so that’s a plus to Emmy & Oliver.
It’s worth it.
Awwwww. I love absolutely everybody in this book. <3
You might expect their reunion to have been one of the cheesy ones with big hugs and/or tears of joy, but it was so awkward and realistic and I just loved it.Robin Benway did a brilliant job depicting an honest teenager and her relationships with friends, family and lover.
Luckily, they all have their friends and family (which was another strong point of the book) to support them and to be there for them.I highly recommend Emmy & Oliver to any young adult contemporary fan, or just anyone who's looking for a quick read with swoons, joy and tears.Deadly Darlings | The Social Potato | The Book Geek | Twitter | Instagram
‘he looked like a stranger, and then he met my glance, and it was like i had never stopped seeing him.’ oh, be still my heart! i swear this book was written specifically for me. it was as if robin benway had asked herself, ‘what would be jessicas ideal story? because im going to write it.’ and then she did! lucky me!i really dont know what to say, but i honestly could have read 300 more pages of this. there was just so much that i wanted more of. i thought the story itself was concluded nicely,
i thought the story itself was concluded nicely, everything wrapped up with no loose ends.
but i really wanted more of oliver.
something so tragically interesting happened to him and yet, we really only get to see the surface of what hes going through.
i mean, the title of the book is ‘emmy AND oliver,’ if it would have been nice if we could have gotten a least half of the book from his perspective.
i just felt like the main event of the book surrounded him, so it would have been more effective had we seen the story from his POV.
4 stars!    “Sometimes love isn't something you say, it's something you do.”   Emmy & Oliver is a book I picked up because I loved the simplicity and beauty of the cover. I bought the audio before I even read the blurb, but I’m glad I did. I really enjoyed this one. YA book #15 for me this year! Only 10 more to go before I hit my personal challenge!Emmy & Oliver’s lives were both drastically changed when Oliver was kidnapped by his father as a child. Oliver was taken away from his mother
Emmy & Oliver is a book I picked up because I loved the simplicity and beauty of the cover.
I bought the audio before I even read the blurb, but I’m glad I did.
Only 10 more to go before I hit my personal challenge!Emmy & Oliver’s lives were both drastically changed when Oliver was kidnapped by his father as a child.
Oliver was taken away from his mother, his friends his life.
Emmy lost her best friend and her parents became extremely overprotective and driven by fear.
I love how accepting Emmy is of Oliver.
I listened to the audio and the narration was great.
It’s seriously impressive!And yet for me, it was still an emotion filled story which I was completely clueless about because check out that title, it’s just Emily & Oliver.
Guess I’m wrong (as usual) because although the book does have romance, it isn’t really a romantic teen-flick as one might innocently deduce from the title, not at all.
It’s about so many truthful, relatable things like realistic depictions of growing up, of losing someone you love, the feeling of alienation versus belongingness, the necessity of friendship in all stages of a person’s life and the process by which the smallest but most complex unit operates-I’m referring to family.
See more reviews at YA Midnight Reads4.5 starsI'd firstly like to point out that Emmy & Oliver is a really misleading title.
Emmy and Oliver used to be the bestest of friends when they were younger - they share a birthday and are next-door neighbours, and while Emmy wants to go back to how they used to be, she isn't sure that's possible since they're both not the same people they were 10 years ago.I fell in love with Emmy almost instantly.
Caro was cool, and Drew, despite being a bit stereotypical, didn’t drive me crazy or anything.That’s one of my only complaints about this book, actually.
Both Emmy and Oliver’s parents are that cliché of being too strict so that they can have a big fight at the climax when their offspring scream at them, I’m not your little girl/boy/walking-talking-stereotype anymore!
It’s somewhat excusable because Emmy and Oliver were childhood friends, but they spend very little time catching up after a (very crucial) decade apart before they start mackin’ on each other.
It’s not the worst I’ve ever read, just a bit grating.Bottom line: It's not perfect, but this contemporary is refreshing, cute and fun.
4.5LOVED this book!!!
All in all, here's an heartfelt story about family, friendship and what it means to belong somewhere, to grow up, without never hiding the hard truths and sore trials real life holds.What is it that creates a family? A friendship? Are labels enough? Does calling someone a friend makes one?  "I looked up at my dad. "Tonight, when Oliver and I were talking, I said I'd still love you, even if you kidnapped me. I really would. I get how he feels."My dad smiled. "That's the nicest and most sociopathi
All in all, here's an heartfelt story about family, friendship and what it means to belong somewhere, to grow up, without never hiding the hard truths and sore trials real life holds.What is it that creates a family?
Emmy & Oliver isn't my first book by Robin Benway, therefore it doesn't come as a surprise that her writing flows smoothly and hides several funny and thoughtful gems, making it really quotable, to put it simply.
With a special mention for Emmy's dad (thanks for the hooking up line, buddy) and her best-friend Drew (your driving skills didn't go unnoticed, and I'm totally stealing your 'The signs says STOP!
If I could describe this book in one word, it would be  quiet. Yes, Emmy & Oliver is something that I would call a "quiet contemporary". I'm not even sure where that came from, or if it's a thing, or something I made up on a whim, but I know deep inside that this is the best word for it. I try to think of another description, but there is nothing that fits as this. Emmy & Oliver is meaningful, thoughtful, and like I said, quiet.How is it so, you ask? I've read a number of contemporaries
I even think the dialogue is the best part of this story, because the way they talk to each other and the things they say and the things they do are so, so, so real.
This is why I say it is quiet, because most of the time, our lives are quiet, too (unless you're a big hot shot in loud field like Hollywood, I guess!), and it really captured that ambiance and atmosphere in the setting, in the writing, in the characters, and in the dialogue.TL;DR: it's one of the most natural contemporaries I've ever read.
We stayed and looked and waited for him to come back, as if our love was a beacon that he could use to light his way home, to crawl up the sides of the earth and back through his front door, his tag still sticking up in the back.  Emmy & Oliver exceeded all expectations. Although it may seem like this is a romance, the truth is it’s actually about friendship, family, growing up and rekindling that long-lost relationship that was horribly ripped away by one selfish man.When Oliver was seven
With a tight curfew and supervision, Emmy feels trapped in a place she calls home, unable to do the things she loves.
After a while, though, after years passed and pictures changed and false tips fell through, it started to feel like the beacon wasn’t for him anymore.
It was for those of us left behind, something to cling to when you realized that scary things could happen, that villains didn’t only exist in books, that Oliver might never come home.Until one day, he did.
This review is also posted on my blog, Anatea's Bookshelf.
I really had no idea what book I was going to read next, and then Shannon from It Starts at Midnight suggested I read Emmy & Oliver next because she liked it a lot.
I mean I had an arc copy and everything, so why not just read it now?
It is also coming out, like tomorrow.
So I did, read it.
Emmy and Oliver have been friends from the day they were born - yes, they even share a birthday.
Until one day Oliver was picked up fr
Now that he's back, nothing is normal again, the question is will Emmy and Oliver be able to pick up from where they left?I expected this book to be a little heavier considering the subject it's dealing with, so I was really surprised to find out I liked this approach much better.
Since the book is told from Emmy's point of view, we only get to find out things about Oliver through her and their interactions.
If you decide to pick Emmy & Oliver up, I can assure you that you will most likely enjoy this book and you'll be wanting more.Blog | Twitter | Facebook | Instagram | Pinterest
Rating: 3.5 Review:  "The more you start to love someone, the more you ache when they're gone, and maybe it's the middle ground that hurts the most, when you can see them and still not feel like you're near enough." I appreciated that this had more depth and did not focus solely on the romance between Emmy and Oliver. They both had to deal with the aftermath of Oliver returning home after being kidnapped by his father for so many years. Of course the adjustment was so much more difficult for Oli
"The more you start to love someone, the more you ache when they're gone, and maybe it's the middle ground that hurts the most, when you can see them and still not feel like you're near enough."
They both had to deal with the aftermath of Oliver returning home after being kidnapped by his father for so many years.
The friendship, then love, that develops between Emmy and Oliver is sweet and builds slowly, but I feel like the story, as a whole, is a bit forgettable, even with the drama surrounding Oliver's kidnapping.
So despite the cheesy-yet-adorable looking cover, this is not  just  another cheesy o’l love story, let me tell you, no, no, it’s a touching coming-of-age story that is fused with beautiful friendships, acceptance, and chasing your dreams.Literally wiping away my tears because I just love this book so much.The characters are brilliant, they’re hilarious with just the right amount of sass but they care for each other so much, honestly just so much goals.
What if I have pinkeye?”“It’d be an honor to share pinkeye with you, Caro.”  But it’s not ALL laughs, honestly some chapters were really heartbreaking it read, my sweet babies.
Find all of my reviews at: http://52bookminimum.blogspot.com/If you only pay attention to this part of the synopsis before beginning Emmy & Oliver . . . .  “Oliver disappeared after school on a Friday afternoon, way back when we were in second grade.” There’s a very good chance you might end up with this sort of reaction to this story . . . .  Please note that this is VERY MUCH a “kissing book” and an extremely sweet one at that. If you (or your teen) is looking for a new twist when it comes
There’s a very good chance you might end up with this sort of reaction to this story .
If you (or your teen) is looking for a new twist when it comes to the story of the boy next door, this might be a winner.
“The only way I could describe what kissing him felt like was, like the last day of school, knowing that months of freedom and sunshine lay before you, the feeling that you could do anything you wanted and time stretched out in endless possibilities.
That’s how I felt in his arms, like the future was limitless just because he was there.
I guess the more you start to love someone, the more you ache when they're gone, and maybe it's that middle ground that hurts the most, when you can see them and still not feel like you're near enough. So close and yet so far.  Absolutely too cute for words. Deep, heartfelt, unforgettable. Sometimes I could slap myself for being so shortsighted. And, just to warn you, I'll probably even say that on tomorrow's review....I just have this mental block that prevents me from taking a risk, taking c
I guess the more you start to love someone, the more you ache when they're gone, and maybe it's that middle ground that hurts the most, when you can see them and still not feel like you're near enough.
But as Emmy begins to integrate him into her life, and her two best friends' lives (they used to be a foursome), he starts to smile, laugh, joke, live...and he's beginning to ache for the ten years they all lost.
He doesn't know where he fits and feels like he's disrupting her-and everyone else's-life.
(Source: I received a digital copy of this book for free on a read-to-review basis. Thanks to HarperCollins and Edelweiss.) “Coming home is like being kidnapped all over again,” This was a YA contemporary romance, featuring a boy who came back after being kidnapped 10 years earlier.Emmy was a cute character, and she really went out of her way to be nice to Oliver, and to make him feel welcome when other people at their school treated him like an outcast. “He’s sitting by himself!” I hissed. “Loo
This was a YA contemporary romance, featuring a boy who came back after being kidnapped 10 years earlier.Emmy was a cute character, and she really went out of her way to be nice to Oliver, and to make him feel welcome when other people at their school treated him like an outcast.
“The problem is that now I miss my dad just like I used to miss my mom.”
I did find the pacing in this a little slow though, which was a bit frustrating, but I do like books with a faster pace, so this might not bother some people.
*collects 24039 pages of notes* Let's get this party started.So the book is by Emmy, who lost her childhood BFF, Oliver, when his dad kidnapped him.
Like, Emmy's parents are super uber protective of her.
So it's not like some predator might pluck Emmy from her parents.
And it's really super sweet to see how much she loves them and how they have a good relationship.
(Lots of surfing in this book!!) And they had hilarious banter and she was there when he was having meltdowns with re-assimilation issues.
JUST THAT I LOVED THIS BOOK.
4 stars!I’ve actually been wanting to read this book for a while, but for whatever reason I always thought, not yet!
When I started reading “Emmy & Oliver” I thought the beginning was slow because I had put in my head that the focus was gonna be Emmy/Oliver but it was so much more than the two of them.
Oliver/Emmy were so sweet I loved seeing how they slowly found the connection they had since children.
A really beautiful book about not just first love not just friendship, but the unbreakable bound between a parent and a child.
Their fear following Oliver's kidnapping has haunted Emmy her entire life and now, at seventeen, all Emmy wants is to surf and attend UCSD--dreams that will never be fulfilled as her parents have already planned that she will commute to college from home and instead of enroll her in dangerous sports like surfing, the most they have allowed her to do is have a car.
Whether it be the relationship Emmy sustains with her parents where she is forced to hide parts of her personality to please them or the one between Oliver and his mother where he feels unable to confide in her, Benway captures both the difficulties and joys of family.
I adored this. Robin Benway's contemporaries are seriously under-appreciated. If you're looking for something along the lines of Jenny Han or Huntley Fitzpatrick, look no further. So lovely.
i'm surprised that i actually liked this??? but tbh how could i hate on a YA book that actually called out "you're not like other girls"RTC! sometime in 2018!---------------------------I was forced into reading this and I hope I hate it.(also?? why does every book have the Six of Crows font??? stop trying to be as good as SoC????)
Super sweet read!!! I liked the how wholesome and innocent the teenagers were. Their banter and camaraderie was very endearing. I got choked up several times during this book, lol, but that's nothing new. Hahaha!!
I really REALLY enjoyed this contemporary. I think it was the perfect mix of sad backstory and current happenings and gah it was just great.I enjoyed the characters a lot even though Emmy said dude too much for my taste, and it was really fun seeing them interact even though I could've done with a bit more development.My main qualm is that everything tied up a little too quietly, nicely, and quickly at the end. Everything happened way too fast for me.But overall pretty freaking great. Definitely would recommend.
At least during an earthquake, you understand why you're shaking.An engaging and intriguing novel, not only exposing the everyday dilemmas of adolescence growing up by the sea, but also tackling more serious, mature problems, and skillfully intertwining a most compelling mixture of psychology, friendship, diversity and light heartedness, that definitely help classify Emmy and Oliver as a very good contemporary.Ooh, I liked this.
• The friendships are great, and the book really payed a lot of attention to the entire group of friends, not just the main character and Oliver.But that brings me to my next point - I didn't find the romance that great.
“The more you start to love someone, the more you ache when they’re gone, and maybe it’s that middle ground that hurts the most, when you can see them and still not feel like you’re near enough.”  Wow. This was such an emotional and moving story, and nothing like I had thought it would be. This was definitely not a cute love story, at least not entirely focused on romance, which was the first impression I got when I read the blurb. But this book was so much better! Emmy and Oliver just became
The characters in this story deals with some very heave and emotional situations, but despite that, the author managed to keep the scenes light with cute and funny moments between the main characters.
Seeing a child getting kidnapped is not a thing you forget easily, especially not when it's someone close to you, and Oliver's disappearance changed many people's lives.It was a really emotional story, with the characters dealing with their past, accepting the new change in their lives (in this case, it was Oliver), and also living with a guilt that he was the reason why all that happened when actually it wasn't really his fault.
I really liked the realistic idea of parents and how they actually were in Emmy and Oliver's lives instead off in some other dimension (often done in YA) at first I was going to give this book a 4/5 but the more I thought about it the more I realised I had nothing bad to say.
I would highly recommend this book seeing as I haven't heard anyone else talk about it and I can't wait to read more from Robin Benway.
Also I realised after I had bought the book that it had a recommendation from Stephanie Perkins (who I love), no wonder I enjoyed this book so much :)
4,5 starsI picked this up because Valentine's day was around the corner, but this was not the ordinary love story I thought it would be. I really liked it! Would re-read.
