https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/310737.The_Sleeping_Dragon
It's portal fantasy in the classic sense, with a small group of role playing gamers in our world suddenly finding themselves in a strange land that mirrors that of their game.When it comes to fantasy novels, rereading one's early favourites tends to bring about mixed feelings: the nostalgia of revisiting beloved characters offset by a sense of the writing feeling dated.
However I thought just ignoring them wouldn't be right either.I'll leave it this way: The Sleeping Dragon is one of my favourite books from the 1980's, one that had far more thematic resonance for me than most fantasy novels, and one whose author was willing to address gender issues within the genre even if the book itself still contained many of those problems.
(Holds promise and attraction to gamers in seeing how these fish out of water types react in their new setting.)MARKETING APPEAL: described below.SCORING: Superb (A), Excellent (A-), Very good (B+), Good (B) Fairly Good (B-) Above Average (C+), Mediocre (C ), Barely Passable (C-) Pretty Bad (D+), Dismal (D), Waste of Time (D-), Into the Trash (F)DIALOGUE: B+/B/C+/C (varies) (B-) STRUCTURE: B+ HISTORY SETTING: C- CHARACTERS: A-/B+/C+ (B) EVIL SETUP/ANTAGONISTS: B+ EMOTIONAL IMPACT: B+ SURPRISES: A- MONSTERS: C+ PACING: A- LITTLE THINGS: B OVERALL STYLE: B FLOW OF WORDS: B+ CHOICE OF FOCUS: B TRANSITIONS/FLASHBACKS/POV: A- COMPLEXITY OF WORDS/SYMBOLISM/THEMES: COVERALL GRADE: B (gamers/ B- (nongamers)DIALOGUE: This ranged from spotty to good.
The plot was fine, but events often times were hurried or skipped altogether for the sake of keeping the book short.
If the plot was stretched out more, this would have been a lot better.The biggest problem I had with this book was the characters.
The other characters though were definitely unlikable though.
The plot got juicier and the characters were more likable.
Even though the books are fairly short, I don't know if I can commit to reading all 10 right now.
I'll definitely give the second book a try, but not any time soon.
This book is very deceptive.
It reads at first like any other Dungeons & Dragons inspired rip-off --- at first.
In fact, the story begins with a bunch of college students starting to play a normal everyday D&D roleplaying session.
But something happens when one of them "opens" a supply chest their character find waiting for them on a hill.
And they are their characters.
To get home they have to make their way across the world they find themselves in and get past the oldest and largest dragon in the world.
This is a great beginning to a wonderful series!
While the good news is that women in this 1983 novel can and do choose to sleep with multiple sexual partners if they want to, the men sulk like whiny babies and get all macho and protective and annoying.
Doesn’t match the cover at all.After an extremely unexciting tournament (how can sword fighting be boring!) the group heads towards “Bremon” and the book enjoyment soured.
I guess I am too old and curmudgeony to suspend any real disbelief at the plot and only find meself disbelieving that this series is beloved by so many folk.I did have the first mate tell me the continuation of the plot in the later novels.
I noted elsewhere that back a few years ago I read several books that really only had one thing to recommend them...they were set in RPG game settings...I have been a gamer since 1978.
I suppose it warps the taste slightly when the book you're reading has a game reference (well except for Mazes and Monsters, we'd all have been better off without that one).A group of gamers gets "flung" into the world of their game...and the uhhh, well, fun(?) begins.
I first read this when it came out in the early 80's, I think. It's a fun book. While playing D&D, a group of college buddies are transported to the D&D world. Stuck there, they play out their lives in an interesting mix of fantasy world with their 20th century personalities & knowledge. It was a fun read. There are quite a few more books following it. I read the first five, but then lost interest.
This was a great book. The concept of being drawn into the game is just the start. There is great character development that makes you want to see whats going to change with them from page to page. All around a great story with some interesting life lessons for people. I definitely recommend for younger readers who enjoy role-playing as the basic concept is every true gamers dream come true.
This book has been in my collection for years and years. I have shared its brilliance with every reader I know. The characters are lovable, the world is believable, and the writing pulls you in from chapter one. Of the books I've read in my life, none would I recommend more than The Sleeping Dragon. (along with the rest or the series)
Definitely in my Top Five fantasy books of ALL TIME, I say that with ZERO exaggeration...This is NOT a Tolkien-clone like Shannara. Yes it has elements Tolkien used, but the story is so damn original and refreshing it's shocking.There is nothing to say but READ THIS NOW. Amazing storytelling and flow, superb characters, just everything that makes Fantasy perfect.
My favorite book! Nobody seems to ever know about this author when I bring him up though, despite how much he's published. I believe this book is particularly appealing to anyone who's played tabletop RPGs before, but it can please any fantasy-genre audience.
Surprisingly good. Rosenberg's writing style is a little unpolished, but he makes up for that with a deep look at his characters and a brutal realism.
3.5 stars, falling just shy of 4 simply because this felt like a book written too quickly: a few out-of-place words, great characterization diminished by smatterings of incongruous dialogue that didn't seem to belong. Rounded up to 4 because the book was so much fun. I agree with Sebastian de Castell, Rosenberg would deliver some great grimdark novels if he were writing today.
Had I read Rosenberg's work when I was thirteen, it would probably rank up there for me and frankly I'm astonished I never did read it, given how it cleaves to so many of my interests.The Book is basically a 'what if' in which a group of table-top Role-players engaging in a psuedo-Dungeons and Dragon game are transported into the world of that game, 'merging' with their characters.
Supposedly the book came about after Rosenberg thought how cool it would be to be in such a world and than realized how horrific it would be to actually live day to day in such a place.
Continuing the story actually seems unnecessary to me, but I will probably read at least one more since my brother has already loaned me the next one.
But then the players are sent into a fantasy world exactly like the one they've been playing and things get "interesting." They find themselves physically transformed into their characters, and they all feel a second personality -- that of the character they created -- battling for control of their minds.
An incident on their arrival deprives them of the magic items and spell books they would have needed to make a journey to get themselves back to the real world.
Seven college students from modern-day America playing a game reminiscent of Dungeons and Dragons are transported to the fantasy world of the game as their role-playing alter egos.
Well, because it's the anti-high fantasy.I do often love sword and sorcery because it's the last bastion of adventure and heroism.
It's practically the definition of high fantasy that they're set in quasi-medieval worlds.
So hell yeah, I did adore the idea of kids from contemporary America messing with that world, not just taking it for granted.
And I liked the characters--Karl, Walter, Lou, James (Ahira), Andrea--and oh, yeah, that Sleeping Dragon they don't let lie--Ellegon.
I know that part of the point of the books is the way that Walter, Karl et al grow & change in response to the reality of slavery, violence & so forth, but somehow I just couldn't manage to enjoy it this time, and there are so many other things I could be reading instead!Still, I do retain fondness for the series; I remember the shock of the fantasy world being so gritty and violent, the casual slavery and disregard for human life, and I get what Rosenberg was trying to do & think it was worthwhile.
I first read this book more than twenty years ago, and I remember liking it, so when I found the ebook for a reasonable price, I figured I would read it again.
This is exactly the kind of book that made me a fan of fantasy in the first place.
As I said before, this is the kind of book that got me hooked on fantasy so that now I can read the more ambiguous books.There are some mature themes in the book, though it isn't explicit.
Why don't all of the male characters ever get gang-raped?Anyways, beyond that, (view spoiler)[ one of the female characters goes completely catatonic after the rape, and the other one falls in love with our protagonist and they share a tender moment, and then in the next book, she's wifed to him and having his babies and largely absent from the entire story.
(hide spoiler)] Rape is just a plot-point.
I generally avoid novels written by men in which women get raped, and I wouldn't have even bothered.It would have gotten a five-star rating from me were it not for that.
2.5 starsShortly, the group of gamers is playing D&D-like game and in one moment they're transported into fantasy world and the game becomes very very real.
I have to say it's more alluring to play the game than read how others are playing.
The negative part - the book begins with too much names - the players, their new and old characters, so I was quite confused who is who and it took some time to get them straight.
One of things I liked was blending of personalities - the real and the made-up character.
Overall, the book is easy reading, good for relax.
In my opinion, this is one of the best and most underrated fantasy books ever written.
The concept is a little cliche, but if you look past that, you are going to find a story of friendship and a battle against slavery and hate.
This book is short, fun, and it will leave you itching for the next one.
I should know, because I ordered the rest of the series a few short weeks after purchasing it (and that was only after scouring all the used book stores in town and not being able to find them).
Sadly, Joel died a few years ago, and he never got to finish these books.
I enjoyed this pretty thoroughly as a kid. It came up, of all things, while shooting the shit an in interview for NVIDIA's compiler team last month (?!?), so I guess the lesson here is that even garbage comes in handy sometimes (for that matter, a brief biographical sketch of Robert Wilson I read a decade ago happened to come in handy talking to a Fermilab alum just last night, and my understanding of the female mind was largely shaped by Baby-Sitters Club, Cat Power lyrics and the Molly Bloom soliloquy from Ulysses so keep readin', kiddos!).
It's hard for me to give this a rating as I originally read this in high school and LOVED it.
Classic D&D player fiction.
Crossing over into the world of your game.
It gets 5 stars for all the memories it brought back.
Is it a good book?
It's fine ..
a good fantasy novel.
The female characters are OK, not great.
But there are a few glimpses of interesting world-building.
And some interesting (albeit brief) observations of quirks of character traits and personality - of what would happen if you became your D&D character - what part of self would you retain.
If there is a catagory of fantasy named people sent to other dimension into fantasy realm to fight then this book would be up at the top of the list along with the Doomfarers of Coramonde by Brian Daley, and Witch World by Andre Norton. The characters are interesting and the story is well told. I havent read this book in years but I pick it up and I still remember Karl and the rest from the dungeons and dragon game.
I absolutely loved this book. I first read a part of it (like the first three chapters) when I borrowed it from a stranger to pass time at a class and then it took me three more years to finally track a copy down and read it cover to cover all in one go. A great book for players of Dungeons & Dragons who ever wondered what it would be like to be transformed into their characters into a fantasy world- dark, dangerous and with no traditional health care.
Truthfully, I've never been big into Dungeons & Dragons (the game). So this story started out a bit slow from me, as someone who never played, it was information that was "over my head." However, I found the story line and thought behind this book interesting and I'm glad that I read it. Now I will have to sniff out more from Joel Rosenberg.
A fun read!Can be read as light entertainment, but there is more to be had than swords and sorcery if you look for it.
I read this in high school (let's just say that is was a while ago). I actually remember that I liked this book enough to search out further books in the series. It must have been dang good.
This first book primarily deals with the shock that these early 80s kids feel at finding themselves in the "fantasy" world, embodying their "characters," and trying desperately to escape back to the familiar world of the US in the 1980s.
Jason, Doria and Karl all appear as their characters, though they are able to struggle to assert their own personalities over their characters'.
This duality is interesting, and it raises its head several times throughout the book, as the protagonists have to balance their reliance on the skills of the fantasy characters with the modern sensibilities of absolute Right and Wrong (as well as identity).
Karl, Doria and Jason in particular all struggle with their fantasy counterparts.
A dark story about people who make mistakes and find redemption.I read this series as a young adult and enjoyed it, so I decided to take a stroll down memory lane and read it again as an adult as an audiobook.It's a rare genre that I have a soft spot for: a group of college-aged kids who roleplay together end up in the game for real, no longer playing characters but actually living their lives, with the knowledge and skills from their own lives.
