https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/125370.Life_Application_Study_Bible
I am a born again Christian and I very much needed help understanding what I read.
I also love the reading plan.
I wake up every morning and use the daily reading plan to help me spend time with God. It keeps me organized and focused.Before I got this Bible I was using a simple thinlined NIV Bible that a Christian gave me my first day at church.
I tried reading it cover to cover, and failed miserably.This Bible is my own, I connect with it, I love it, and it's easy to read.
Get this Bible and read it!!!
This Bible is a great version for study and easy reading. The study guides are wonderful. On many pages, the study guide is half the page and the Bible reading is the other half. The Bible is brought into clarity with this version. I highly recommend it to anyone!
This book is amazing!! It helps me everyday!!! I will always be reading this book!!!! I will never be done reading this book!! There is always something new to didcover in every chapter even if u have read it a gazzilion times I promise you!! If you start reading and studing this book you will be amazed at the stuff you learn about JESUS the one who dies for our sins and the one who loves you sooo much no mater what!!!!!
I've read through many different study bibles in my work as a youth minister. I haven't found any to be easier to understand or have more useful information than the Life Application Study Bibles. The NLT version works well as it is generally seen as truer the the biblical text. In general the commentary does a great job giving very useful information right on the page regarding the historical activities going on during the time of the verse being referenced.
I have tried to read the King James version and I gave up!! I was trying to find a bible that I could understand and I found this gem!! This was a Christmas present to myself:) This is easy to read, notes at the bottom explain in more detail what it is U are reading.Believe me when I tell U this is the best bible!!
This Bible transformed my faith by applying the text to my daily life. The instruction it provides is the best tool for understanding the gospel and learning to live the Christian life.
*Thanks to New Living Translation Facebook Fan Page and Tyndale House Publishers for having a giveaway where I won a copy!!*
As you read through this Bible you are also given timelines which offer clear parallels to events in world history.A key feature of this Bible is the life application notes which run across the bottom of the page and assist the reader with understanding the text and what it means for the reader.
I can't say enough good things about this study bible. I own several study bibles but none are like this. Most study bibles tell you the authors' interpretations of a passage and/or mostly useless facts. This bible gives you real actions you can take in your life to apply Jesus' teaching and strengthen your relationship with God. Full of questions to ask yourself, actions to take and life lessons it's a totally different kind of study bible. Download a free sample on iBooks and see for yourself!
1/6/2014Romans 8:39No power in the sky above or in the earth below -- nothing, nothing in all creation will ever be able to separate us from the love of God that is revealed in Christ Jesus our Lord.I received as a gift this NLT (New Living Translation) bible and find that it is so informative.
I have yet to use the DVD.
Many of the sentences are very similar to the NIV (mostly what I have memorized).
But I find the history in addition to the scriptures very helpful even though I still use my "What the Bible is All About" by Henrietta C.
A nice readable translation, giving some extra descriptives where the metaphor might be lost in English. Also translates into estimates for English units instead of Ancient ones (Feet and inches, instead of Cubits, Pounds and Tons instead of shekels and talents). Also translates dates into approximate Gregorian calendar dates, which is nice. The commentary is all about (as the title might imply) applying the text to your life. Not a lot of history, but a lot of application. Good Stuff.
easy-to-read wording; my wife has the New International Version NIV but there have been some times this Bible's wording was a bit more understandable.I would recommend a new method of Bible reading - Professor Horners Bible Reading System (http://thelawmanchronicles.blogspot.c...) - odd long name but give it a try....
There is a reason for this book being the most translated book in the world...It's incredibly interesting and so close to life today. I just fell in love with that book, it's so great, it helps me what to do in different situations and I cannot get enough from the bible.it's difficult to say which is my favorite part cause the whole book is just WoW :-)
While I've only recently received this bible I'm already enjoying having the study notes there. Really helps add depth and understanding to the passages, particularly for a scripture neophyte such as myself.Amusing that there is a "date I finished this book". If I ever find myself "finished" reading the bible, then my next of kin will need to notate the date. :)
Finally, an easy to read, simple translation of the Bible! I just discovered this particular Bible and am really enjoying it. The notes and life applications are just wonderful. This Bible is increasing my understand of the Bible and its applications to my life.
This study bible is a winner. Lots of color photos, maps, illustrations, timelines, as well as the Life Application Bible study notes. It's presented chronologically to help the reader get a grasp on the whole order of things in the bible. Highly recommended.
I really enjoy the thought process used in creating this very accurately translated edition to the "Life Application Study Bible" series.Thoughts flow smoothly, making thus easy to understand and share with others.
3.14.08-9.5.09 - On 3.11 I started reading with the NIV.. On 3.13 I continued with dad’s NLT and loved it.. On 3.14 I went to a family christian store and got a new NLT Life Application Study Bible—engraved Justin D. Shaum..12.21.09-12.31.10 - the 365-day plan in the back
This version is easier to understand but not as poetic as the King James version.
This told me a lot more things than I expected. It's a nice way to start you day. It always makes my days a ton better.
A gift from my mother. An extremely in-depth study of God's word in plain English.
This is my favorite bible version because for me NLT is the best to understand and I just really enjoy how the pages and study material are organized.
Currently reading. I'll never STOP reading the Bible...
Written in a way that you can clearly understand the stories. Very good.
Just over five years to the day I started this - I may have started even earlier but not logged the book on GoodReads until later - I've finally finished reading through the New Living Translation.
It wasn't until the minor prophets that the translation itself began to capture me in ways I'd hoped it would when I first started (I'd never read the NLT until trying this volume).
The Gospels were wonderful, and the rest of the NT a breeze compared with most of the OT.Despite the happy sense of accomplishment at finishing and profiting from this work, I'm fairly sure I'll be reading the ESV and other translations from now on and won't return often to the NLV.
If we want to read OUR history and story in chronological order and follow the development of the story of humankind, Then this is definitely THE bible to have. I have been glued to it while reading as it bring the Bible to life and put everything in place and order. I have finished it, will definitely read over again ! With all the insights and additional study contents, you have here a very great study help.
Great study BibleThis Bible is what I look for in a study book or reference material. Very well prepared and organized. Plus, I'm still finding useful sections I didn't realize I had. I like the NLT translation and the work put forth in compiling this book. I have the Kindle download plus the hard cover edition and would recommend both.
It's the Bible and I love the Bible so I loved it. I usually study the ESV and the last couple of times I've read the Bible in one fell swoop I read the ESV. This was refreshing to me. I enjoyed the chronological order and this translation connected with my heart. I'm looking forward to digging back into my ESV but this was a great 5 months in God's word for me.
I love the Life Application Study Bible! The study notes are incredibly well written!I purchased this edition years ago in honor of my Christian Irish ancestors. 😊
Love this NLVThe only problem is getting the tablet to behave.The helps would be better if it included the chronology too☺ word
