https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1319.The_War_of_Art
Indeed, you may allegedly get sick as a way to avoid bettering your life.* The author makes an unsubstantiated claim that diseases such as ADHD, seasonal affective disorder, and social anxiety disorder are not real and were invented by marketing departments and drug companies to make a quick buck.* 70-80% of people that go to the doctor aren't sick, but are just being dramatic.* Professionals should without question ignore any and all criticism because all criticism from others is an act of envy, rather than a tool to improve.
Some good bits about discipline and such.I have about 13 years of collegiate and graduate art school under my belt, and I've worked in the fine and commercial arts.
Plus, there's the idea he puts forward that you haven't really turned "pro" until you've dismissed all non-art related activity from your life.
He's awfully judgmental against those who strive for a balanced, comprehensive life as opposed to a two-dimensional one.A better book, more honest and less pretentious, is Art and Fear.
I like to have a writing book around to dip into when I get stuck or frustrated or just to keep me going. This one started out with some interesting ideas, but it ended up not being very supportive. A little bullying, in fact. Toward the end, it's a lot of religious pronouncements and philosophy that I didn't agree with or find very helpful. It felt a bit rigid.
What's more, it's every excuse you can possibly think of to delay doing what the Muse put you on this earth to do: procrastination, rationalizations, physical sicknesses, psychological conditions with funny letters, family, drama, Twitter, Facebook, busywork, alcohol, drugs, television, your cellphone, fatigue, hopelessness, etc.Hemingway?
It was the Lost Generation's version of "I'm not a writer, but I play one in cafés." Pressfield, a writer as well, often alludes to the trade in The War of Art. Too often, writing is something phonies talk of doing and dream of doing but just don't do, or do sporadically, or make excuses as to why they can't do it, or do and fail once or twice, then quit.
Guys: you picked up a self-help book.
You picked up a book called "The War of Art".
If you hoped for originality, or a touchy-feely art-is-easy book, you made a strange decision.
I'm just saying.Personally, I found this book pretty useful.
It treats inspiration as a mystery (because, um, it is).
It does not treat art as a mystery.
It says, you can't manufacture inspiration, so get your butt in the chair, every day, and do the work so inspiration has the opportunity to come.I'm intrigued by his idea that the difference between a professional artist and an amateur is that the professional artist loves the art enough to arrange her/his life to allow him/her to do it full-time.
This book is lightweight, derivative crap, written in the style of a self-hating self-help guru with blame the victim issues eighteen ways from Sunday.
I tore out the two good pages, one of which was a quotation from W.H. Murray and the other of which quoted King Leonidas, and burned the book in the fireplace.
But the ways he personifies it contradict each other, or simply don't make any sense, or come across as pure page-filling psychobabble.
You feel resistance because it's easier!
If you don't feel it, you're going the wrong way!
Everything good is resistance!
Maybe your mother didn't love you enough.
No one's mother loved them enough, all of us suffer from self-doubt (If you don't, you're a sociopath and I don't want to know you), and even Shakespeare wrote about "Desiring this man's art, and that man's scope." If Shakespeare sometimes thought he wasn't good enough, I think that lets the rest of us off the hook.
You need only three things: to know where to find the information you need, to develop good work habits, and to acquire the thickest skin possible and be able to listen to and ignore the most painful criticism imaginable.
An early chapter just grabbed me with this opening line, "Most of us have two lives.
Between the two stands Resistance." Those sentences grabbed me and have stayed with me.
Why do I resist?
Why do I resist?
Why do I resist?
There's also a fabulous quote from WH Murray later, "The moment one definitely commits oneself, then providence moves too." It reminded me of why I like to operate from passion.
The things that I do from passion always spin out with dizzying force.
When you act from passion, providence indeed moves.
What a pretentious piece of ridiculous crap. It has:• Harmful, uninformed medical opinions (Why?? It's a book on creativity. Just NO.)• Bizarre and illogical assessments of historical figures• COMPLETELY FAKE STATISTICS (How did those even survive editing? You can't make figures up to back your outrageous opinions. You need real sources. They should be cited. This is the fastest way to enrage a librarian.)• Constant judgment (as if I can't get enough of that in small town Missouri)• So much repe
It's a book on creativity.
This book earned my disdain, and I'd like to save the rest of you from a terrible reading experience.
Typically, I avoid posting one star ratings and reviews, but since this is parading about calling itself nonfiction, I have to interject to say it's nothing more than a bizarre and often offensive opinion piece, full of some very obvious statements about creativity.
If you want an interesting, thoughtful book on writing and creativity, try Stephen King's ON WRITING.UPDATE 5/16/2018: I just recently read Wired for Story by Lisa Cron, which is also good.
Nothing else matters except sitting down every day and trying.” ― Steven Pressfield, The War of ArtThree stars in both content and delivery, but I should probably also disclose that I REALLY struggle with the whole self-help genre and this was basically just a self-help book for writers and artists.
The War of Art's good idea can be summarized by Nike's slogan:Just Do It.Or perhaps, my dad's slogan:Get off your ass and do your damn job.This book is basically Pressfield giving the reader ideas about how to overcome creative roadblocks.
Basically, Pressfield says you gotta do the hard stuff.
It's more than worth the price of admission for anyone in a creative field.
Clear, inspiring, and short.
(Also, inexpensive, which seems remarkably fair in this era.)Yes, roughly half of the book is a little...
ethereal, perhaps.
More Pressfield's life philosophy and spirituality than anything, and not helpful to me.
I've read too many business books that are 15 pages of gold surrounded by 200 pages of fluff to get angry when an author legitimately gives a work his all--and gives 50 pages of gold and 50 pages of Not For Me, Thanks.Where it's good, it's great.
It left me hungry to go do more work.
How creative of a person are you?
"They" say the more creative you are, the more sensitive you are.
Which can mean that you don't want to get out of you bed some days, or that you have the ability to procrastinate greatly, or that you want to destroy every piece of work that you have ever created because it's crap and you'll never be as crazy as Vincent van Gogh or as cool as Michaelangelo.Well, this book gives you tools to help you overcome all your short comings and own up to your potential as a creative member of society.Also, nobody wants to get out of bed in the morning, it's so comfortable and cozy in there.Let me know when we put a hybrid engine in a bed, I'll drive that to work.
Steven Pressfield’s The War of Art is essentially an extended pep talk/motivational speech meant to pump the reader up into doing what they’re putting off doing, be it going for a new job, starting a new diet or whatever, though ostensibly it’s aimed at wannabe writers.
I’ve read a few books like this – off the top of my dome, Stephen King’s On Writing, Benjamin Percy’s Thrill Me and Mark Manson’s The Subtle Art of Not Giving a Fuck – all of which did it better than Pressfield.
And that’s what I’d recommend for inspiration/motivation instead of this book: Joe’s podcast, particularly the episodes with Jocko Willink and Jordan Peterson.
Hello, my name is Makeba and it has been 22 days since I've thought about writing and decided to do something else instead.
I write everyday, and this book helped me do it."The War of Art" made me feel bad about my relationship with the creative process.
She would invite me out and I'd decide to wash my hair instead.
Illuminating what Pressfield defines as resistance and turning pro turned the tables on myself and forced me to take a hard look at my habits and decide if I was hungry enough to change them.
I'm on day three of beans and rice; I'm hungry.
I don't remember when I added it anymore, but I know it was a while ago.There was a period of time this summer where I simply could not write *at all.* I tried everything--I tried to read book about writers block like The Midnight Disease.
We feed it by our very fear of it." All those things I'd done to try and make myself write and I'd never once stopped to think about WHY I wasn't writing.
But Pressfield got me to do that, and he got me to realize that it was my fears that were stopping me, and that writing can't be about overcoming everything that's got you trapped in a corner or scared.
What a piece of garbage!
Some of the things I "learned" while reading this meritless piece of tripe: 1.
Attention Deficit Disorder and Social Anxiety Disorder aren't "real"--they are merely excuses that we give ourselves because we don't truly want to succeed; 2.
The reason Hitler killed millions of Jews is because he didn't have a creative outlet, and he should have painted more;3.
Since creativity requires a healthy body as well as a healthy mind, overweight people cannot truly be creative.
Sounds like THIS fat man's creativity is working just fine.
I do not read self-help books but this book I know I’m going to read every year from now on. It is like a pocket map to find your inner Muse. It starts from a very basic level. Kind of like the layman level and drives you swiftly but efficiently to the level of an artist. It’s like a smooth ride in an elevator. Effortlessly leading you to your destination.
In a word: obnoxious. I've suffered through 57 pages of being told I should resist resistance. Skipping ahead to page 68, I see a chapter on the value of being miserable. No. Just no. I'm done here.
Probably due to some crazy circumstance that was way more interesting than anything written on the pages of the book itself.
According to the author we all have a purpose to fulfill and if we ignore it he will yell at us, like he does on the last page.
I wonder if this person is aware that some people actually do not have purposes, they were born and there is not one thing in the world that interests them, and it is not due to procrastination or resistance.
I wonder what he thinks of such people who achieve nothing, nor care to and remain healthy their entire lives.
Pressfield is a former Marine, the author of a novel on the Greco-Persian Wars and a fan of the Bhagavad Gita, so probably someone who's become an expert in getting one's shit together in the face of adversity.
"The War of Art" is precisely about how to muster strength and determination in any creative enterprise against our inner adversary, which he calls Resistance (name it procrastination or self-sabotage or writer's block if you prefer).The books is divided into three sections: 1) a definition of what Resistance really is and how it manifests itself, 2) guidelines on how to fight Resistance and stop bullshitting oneself, 3) a somewhat romantic (jungian / nietzschean) development on inspiration, enthusiasm (in the etymological sense), connecting to the Self and becoming what we are.I have picked up this book from the shelf in order to get a boost for a writing project I'm working on (and because it was prefaced by Robert McKee!).
This book is fierce.
I picked it up late one night while fighting the flu and the next morning, I was like an efficient machine.
I felt extremely motivated to continue my efforts on a few projects that had been languishing on the back burner.
The author shines a very bright light on that cunning, rational voice we all have that convinces us to wait, procrastinate or never start a new venture.
The author's voice is refreshing and the ideas clear and relevant.
That defeatist little voice better watch out!
I don't underestimate the work ethic and writing talent of Mr. Pressfield; however, if you are looking for practical approaches to consistently battling your bouts of procrastination and creative blocks without sacrificing the relationships that matter most in life (aka real friends and family), look elsewhere.
What makes this book borderline off-putting is that the three contemporary male figures noted for their "acts of commitment," and are referenced more than once throughout, are all men that have failed their families and the public: Lance Armstrong, Arnold Schwarzenegger, and Tiger Woods.
Two positive stars. It was okay. Maybe I've read too many books about writing. This is one of those paragraph-a-page books with quips about writing and overcoming what stands between you and getting it done. But I didn't find those pages all that inspiring or motivating and I kept wishing for funny photographs above each paragraph to help me turn the pages. It's one of those books that would benefit from polar bears and grasshoppers sitting at typewriters or somehow illustrating the text in a humorous way. Not a bad book, but maybe just not for me.
He focuses a lot on writing, but it clearly applies to anything you are called to do in your life, but seem unable to get yourself to do it.I have been working on-and-off on my 1st book for 5 years.
Within pages, Pressfield clearly spell out the trouble, and just by recognizing it I was able to sit down and write EVERY DAY WITH ENTHUSIASM.
Sometimes recognizing the problem is all you need to do to move beyond it.
It's a fun read, and approachable by people of all beliefs and walks of life.
The first 2/3 of this book were exactly the inspiration, direction, correction, and kick in the butt every person doing creative work needs. The last 1/3 was much of the same but phrased as abject nonsense. It’s short and moves fast and is well worth reading.
Grohl stuck it out and has been part of two highly successful bands and contributes to several others, regardless of commercial response.
In this book Pressfield is hard on the artist.
He points out art in and of itself doesn’t just happen “when the mood strikes”.
Art requires dedication.
It requires detachment not only from the art itself, but also from how the world sees the product.
It requires knowing art cannot be measured by anything tangible.In theory, this book is about the creative process.
It’s a book about dreaming big.It’s about knowing the saying “when God closes a door he opens a window” is kinda lame.
Its not an accessible book since the entire narration sounds like hes pissed off and in turn taking it out on the reader.
Due to that, hes written a manifesto on the tribulations of not getting over it in a timely manner.
Yet I also felt that those feelings took away from his writing original well structured ideas and notions on the overall subject of writing.In the first portion of the book he says you should write in a rote way and not consider what your doing as art.
Then in the second half he says that not only is writing art but thats its something godly and divine.
Haruki Murakami talked in much similar terms about writing in his book about running.
Much of the book talks about the forces of "Resistance." Think about resistance as the accumulated forces trying to get you not to write, not to finish, to say you're a writer but to really live life as a fraud.
Thus, perhaps the best way to read this book is in five to ten minute sessions before you're about to write.
I’m also an International Relations scholar and it’s been a long time since I’ve read anything on Fundamentalism that rang so clear and beautiful as that.
this book is basically a self-help book about confronting procrastination.
pressfield begins by distinguising the behavior of an amateur from a professional artist.
he believes that to be human is to be an artist and that we procrastinate because we're afraid of achieving our full potential because to do so is very hard and requires much failure.
also, he references tiger woods and arnold schwarzenegger a lot.much of what he says feels truthful; however i immediately become suspicious of a book when i find myself nodding internally.
also, i felt less nervous after reading this book.
This book was annoying, but I liked it OK.I thought it was funny that most of the people the author held up as paragons of success are borderline psychopaths who have cheated and lied their way to the top (Lance Armstrong) or have cheated and lied their way through their personal lives (Arnold Swarzenegger and Tiger Woods).The author contradicts himself, too: In the chapter "For the Love of the Game" he says, "Playing for money, or adopting the attitude of one who plays for money, lowers the fever," which is a good thing, according to him.
And unintentionally funny, the way a know-it-all blowhard is.P.S. And he actually says people have been cured from cancer because, after they got their diagnosis, they started doing what they loved.
