https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/108119.Final_Harvest
Anyway, I would pass her place and distinctly feel her white-nightgowned ghost looking out a high window at me.
I cannot live with You – It would be Life – And Life is over there – Behind the ShelfNone of this was accurate, of course, except probably for the ghost part; Dickinson was nothing like an idiot savant.
It's funny, as many times as I've read her, her poems still shock.
Looking up and coughing that smoke into the night, I realized we were on Emily Dickinson's front lawn.
Here's one of my favorites:202This World is not Conclusion.A Species stands beyond-Invisible as Music-But positive, as Sound-It beckons, and it baffles-Philosophy- don't know-And through a Riddle, at the last-Sagacity, must go-To guess it, puzzles scholars-To gain it, Men have borneContempt of GenerationsAnd Crucifixion, shown-Faith slips- and laughs, and rallies-Blushes, if any see-Plucks at a twig of Evidence-And asks a Vane, the way-Much Gesture, from the Pulpit-Strong Hallelujahs roll-Narcotics cannot still the ToothThat nibbles at the soul-  I've seriously considered getting the first line tattooed somewhere on myself for a long time.
He cried more than a few times when he read her poetry in class and claimed to be hopelessly in love with her.
This is a selection of about one-third of Dickinson’s nearly 1800 poems.
Reading an extensive sample of her poems in a circumscribed period of time is refreshing and even invigorating; this is one tough lady!How these particular poems were selected for inclusion in this volume is not discussed, and I would like to know the criteria used for selection.
And some of her poems are very funny:“A Bird came down the Walk –He did not know I saw –He bit an Angleworm in halvesAnd ate the fellow, raw”
In the poems, "Myself was formed a Carpenter;" "A loss something ever felt I;" and "Bind me I can still sing," I see Dickinson creating a matriarchal voice that fellow women can hear, understand and appreciate.
Consider the lines "I still can sing," "my mandolin strikes true within," and "my soul shall rise."In the poem "Myself was formed a Carpenter, I see Dickinson as the Carpenter who is building that place for women.
It took me two months to make it through this 320pg book: a collection of 575 of Dickinson's best poems.
Only after I read a biography of her (Richard Sewall's) and only after I was a third of the way through this book did my brain finally "get" how to read her and receive her.When I read a book I feel like I spend time with the author.
For me, spending time with Emily is awe-inspiring, scary, gut-wrenching, humbling, breathtaking, and fascinating.
There's something very other-worldly about her and her writing, as if the words themselves have some sort of sacred presence.
122 (numbers differ with editors and editions) is one of my favorites. Eta: While I was rereading Final Harvest, the book, dating from my college days, fell apart at the spine. S. noted my distress, and today, I received an incredibly wonderful gift of a first edition The Complete Poems of Emily Dickinson (my attempts to add a bit of html coding here are not meeting with success). In this edition, Poem 122 is Poem 341. The inscription from S., with reference to a certain poem, I shall not reveal.
I'm not a huge fan of poetry but I decide to give this book an opportunity.
I read every single poem.
Dickinson talks about Nature, God, and Death and yes, she is morbid but she also has poems about life and love.
They are worth exploring.
Some were boring, some I paid little attention to but some I read and re-read searching for meaning, repeating it as if it were a song.
Some poems ended up inspiring me and I learned tons of new words.
Overall it was an experience worth experiencing and a risk work taking.
I'm still not fond of poetry but I can say I enjoy art at its best.
Qué poemas más hermosos, la elegancia, la rima, la profundidad. Este libro es para el alma. La mejor forma de terminar un año y empezar otro. Totalmente recomendado. Dickinson era una genio tierna."I have no Life but this - To lead it here - Nor any Death - but lest Dispelled from there - Nor tie to Earths to come - Nor action new - Except through this extent - The Realm of you -"
Always a great author to choose for poems that touch your soul.
So good it hurts.
review to come
I feel like that 3 is pretty generous and it's only given because there are some really great poems in here. But for the most part, no one's lying when they say that Emily Dickinson has been highly overrated as a poet. She's okay. She's written a few amazing poems, some great ones, but mostly average-good ones.
Still don't love E.D. but I can appreciate why others do. Value from me is her views of the CT River Valley and generally, the natural landscape of New England in the 1800s. I just wish she got out more :)
A huge collection of chronologically organized poems by Emily Dickinson. What is great about that is you see her artistic progession over the years. Not all poems are great, but the few that are are extraordinary. Dickinson is perhaps the best woman poet in American history.
No one like her, no voice like hers, no wonder we're still trying to parse her out, catch up to her, catch the hem of her garment. Eternity's disclosureTo favorites - a few -Of the Colossal substanceOf Immorality Thank you, Emily.
This book is not the complete poems written by Emily Dickinson but feature some of her more well-known poems. It's a good starting place if you're just getting into Dickinson's work.
This was not my favorite book to read. I thought that the poems where confusing and the language was hard to understand. Though I did enjoy how the author had the word flow together.

More than a lot of poets that I've read, what you're left with is a world view, one that can actually work on the reader's own to the point where things seem subtly different as you walk around (and I started reading this one while camping, which I highly recommend).
Some of the work selected here seems more valuable to me as just ballast, more examples of that command of diction and that world view than strikingly compelling on its own, but on a regular basis she crafts an image or a moment where sparks fly.
I admit upfront that I don't consider myself much of a poetry person, but I also feel like I gave this far more consideration than anyone else would have.If anything turned me off the most it was the extensive use of near-rhymes.
I have no problems with non-rhyming poetry, but if you can't just approximate rhymes and expect it to work.
Maybe I'm wrong, or somehow different from most readers.
When she has a special focus, like a Jay, she reveals herself to be witty, whimsical, and deep.
But that's just my opinion and, while I read this slowly and carefully, I still just don't like poetry.
I am ashamed to admit that I had dismissed Emily Dickinson as some kind of cutesy, greeting card, nature poet prior college when I -- a non-honors student -- managed to sneak into an honors discussion course about her poetry where I quickly gained a new respect for her.
This selection of Emily Dickinson's poems is wonderful except for one omission: the poem "In Winter in my Room," which I handwrote in the back of my copy.
This book represents 575 poems out of 1776 that Emily Dickinson wrote over her life time.
Dickinson lived her life as a recluse and this situation is sometimes reflected in her poetry.
Johnson edited the three volume presentation of The Poems of Emily Dickinson and created Final Harvest.
Poems were selected that are not only her best known work, but those that were pertinent to her life.
Dickinson’s poems would also be good for interpreting the imagery and meaning of the poetry.
I am embarrassed to tell people I like Dickinson's poetry.
But there is a darkness to her poetry so seductive and so mysterious.
If ever there was a true to life Tennessee Williams character, she would be it.There is a Complete Volume, but I like finding these smaller collections.
I like trying to figure why editors lumped certain poems together.Dark, dark, dark baby..."Behind Me—dips Eternity—Before Me—Immortality—Myself—the Term between—Death but the Drift of Eastern Gray,Dissolving into Dawn away,Before the West begin—’Tis Kingdoms—afterward—they say—In perfect—pauseless Monarchy—Whose Prince—is Son of None—Himself—His Dateless Dynasty—Himself—Himself diversify—In Duplicate divine—’Tis Miracle before Me—then—’Tis Miracle behind—between—A Crescent in the Sea—With Midnight to the North of Her—And Midnight to the South of Her—And Maelstrom—in the Sky—"
I read her in many types of voice styles: from stuffy and prude to reading her with a hip hop tone, try it, it's fun!List of fav.
poems:I.
479She dealt her pretty words like Blades --How glittering they shone --And every One unbared a NerveOr wantoned with a Bone --She never deemed -- she hurt --That -- is not Steel's Affair --A vulgar grimace in the Flesh --How ill the Creatures bear --To Ache is human -- not polite --The Film upon the eyeMortality's old Custom --Just locking up -- to Die.II.
435Much Madness is divinest Sense --To a discerning Eye --Much Sense -- the starkest Madness --'Tis the MajorityIn this, as All, prevail --Assent -- and you are sane --Demur -- you're straightway dangerous --And handled with a Chain --more soon...
I haven't opened this book in years (I don't think I even own a copy at present), but this is the edition in which I first encountered Dickinson seriously, so I feel a great deal of fondness for it.
The "final" in the title is laughable now, but back in the 1960s people must have thought, I guess, that there would not be any more editing work to do with this poet.
After all, there was a three-volume scholarly edition, a single-volume reader's edition, and this selection.
Ah, the innocence of youth (for even fields of scholarly study have innocence and youth)!
I'm not a big fan of poetry, but I absolutely LOVE Emily Dickinson! Her poems actually drew me into reading works by other poets. Her poems are so full of meaning while phenomenally concise. I've written a 10 page paper--or was it 18?--on one 2 line poem. Granted, I referred to 6-8 of her other poems to draw parallels and examine the meaning. My favorite poet, by far. I still explore her poetry, occasionally.
Ahhh, the ultimate existentialist commentary. I have always loved Emily Dickinson's poetry and this book professes to be a compilation of selected poems chosen from ALL of her poems . . . an alleged first. Poems were well organized and accessible, numbered first by the editors running number then in parens the alleged Dickinson running number. The book also, thankfully, comes without any editorial hoohah. You are free to enjoy and interpret.
A perfect collection to acquaint yourself with her poems, which are a secret language of their own. The brevity and dissonant rhymes bring about a unique music. Her musings upon nature, love, and death seem simplistic when stated plainly but upon closer inspection (like natural wonder itself) the depth of her thoughts can astonish and enlighten. Pure genius. Her poetry should be re-read again and again.
I could spend a lifetime pondering and studying Emily Dickinson's poems. Some are accessible while in others I feel I only catch a glimpse of her meaning. Reading this was a five-month project for me, reading a handful of poems each night in bed. About 50 of them are now among my favorite poems. Perhaps I will conquer her complete oeuvre next.
I love Emily Dickinson. What I love about her is that her poems are so full and thought out. Ever word contributes to the overall meaning. And she writes about so much more than what the average person thinks she does. I have read out of this book three different times in my education: sophomore year of high school, senior year of high school, and my Dickinson and Frost class in college.
