https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/35982.My_Horizontal_Life
I couldn't finish this book. I found it distasteful, facile and pandering. It made my skin crawl. Loathsome. I'm certainly a fan of sex in all its consensual forms, so that part didn't squick me a bit, other than it just wasn't written in a fashion that made me like any of the participants. The author blithely trotted out and proudly displayed nearly every flavor of prejudice in the first 80 pages. I'm bewildered by the apparent popularity of this collection.
I about died reading this book.
Seriously, I had to put the book down several times because I was crying so hard from laughing.
I am not normally the type of reader who laughs out loud at what she is reading.
However, I am thankful that I was home alone for most of this book.
Having witnesses would have made me appear to be some kind of whack job.I highly recommend this book unless the following things bother you, offend you, or any other type of negative feelings ensue: sex, body parts, swearing, offensive descriptions, etc.If the above things bother you, do not read this book.
I watch Chelsea Handler's late night show on tv and the disconnect between her professional-young-woman look and foul-mouthed retelling of her sexual expoits is quite funny and I looked forward to more of the same in the book.
However, the humour lies in her drunken exploits picking up a myriad of men and then her personal insults against them, whether it be their 'size', personal habits, looks, intelligence or housekeeping ability.
There are several side characters, all of whom might have been interesting, but the information on them is restricted to how much money they have and their sexual habits or lack of them.
I was embarrassed reading this book in public. I was getting a pedicure while reading parts of it and swore the pedicurist had xray vision, could see what I was reading, and subsequently thought I was a huge perv. This is supported by the crappy pedicure I recieved. Regardless, this book is hilarious. A perfect trashy beach read. I cannot fathom that parts of it were not embelished for hilarity's sake, but hilarious it was. Let this be your guilty, guilty pleasure.
This woman kept me laughing, page by page.
I didn't want to stop reading, but I had to get to work.
Thank goodness for my rides to and from work in a bus, I get to read rather than pay attention to what's going on on the road.
People must've thought I was retarded when they would see me suddenly burst out laughing out loud.
I can't wait to read her other book.
I love how straight faced she is with any joke she makes.
She's not joking in a way to be funny.
I have never considered myself prudish before - but reading these recollections and seeing how little respect Handler had for the men she encountered really depressed me. I had hoped that the book would be Fun and Liberating - The story of a confident, single woman who took charge of her sexual experiences! What a Let-Down! There were a handful of funny one-liners - but after reading this book, I found that I really didn't like the author and that her exploits left a bad taste in my mouth !!!!
As if I needed more help feeling like a nun.Wow!
Chelsea takes a no-holds barred look back at her sex-capades.
There is something in this book to make everyone squirm.
I want no record of what I laughed at.This was fun to read (and quick) but I don't think it's for everyone.
The virtuous girls might be shocked and the bad girls might be inspired to even more bad behavior.
I'm looking forward to reading her next book, and that's safe because I'm neither bad nor virtuous.
Just a reluctant nun.
I expected the non-PC jokes. I expected the brash humour. I expected the mean comments. I did NOT expect the boredom. I was expecting a funny book with descriptions of one-night stands. What I got was running commentary on being drunk and stupid. None of which I had a problem with. This book was just fucking boring.
Hilarious, as always. Magnificently endowed midgets, an Adonis of a stripper known only as THUNDER, a cruise ship performer- her conquests stack up rather quickly and fortunately for the reader nearly always end in tears and/or vodka. Chelsea is always willing to skewer herself for the cause of a good joke and this book is full of them. Definitely not for the easily offended or delicately sensible.
Actually that should be more like--have sex with and tell, but that's beside the point.Chelesa Handler's memoir of memorable one-night stands is both as racy as you'd expect and not nearly as racy as you'd like to think.
The book could definitely be an advertisement for Alcoholic's Anonymous since many of these stories revolve around decisions made while under the influence.
That said, there are times when Handler works too hard to set up punchlines.
I'd say this is a limitation of the work being a printed one, but since I listened to the audio version that doesn't necessarily apply.
Sorry yuck I probably would have liked this in my early 20's now it's just embarrassing. Some parts are entertaining but my gut feelings is that it's mostly fabricated or at least exaggerated or stretched for extra content. I'm still curious to read her other books but this one didn't do it for me. A big nope from me. On the plus side it was a perfect audiobook for easy entertainment something that didn't require a lot of concentration or brain cells.
Funny book... Found myself laughing out loud a few times!
I really liked this book.
The book starts with a tale about the time Chelsea's oldest sister Sloane dared her to walk in on their parents and take a picture of them having sex for five bucks and ends with Chelsea finally coming to the realization that she is a -grown ass woman- and that it's time she acted like one, cheers to that!
I highly recommend this book if you want a laugh-out-loud funny book to read, but be warned that Chelsea is a bit crass -that's why I love her- and some of the tales are a bit disturbing and offensive.
Funny Funny Funny, and hopelessly wonderful. I couldn't put it down. It just kept driving me to read more of these hilariously awful experiences. How I don't know. And Honestly I'm not too sure I care. Proclaiming that she "[feels] it is important to have sex soon after meeting someone", Chelsea unabashedly hands you her life in a way that could only make the reader feel better about their own, with the wierd twist of truly wishing you had a friend like her in your life. And I love her for it.
Chelsea Handler is so freakin' funny, I can hardly stand it. I wish she would move her drunk, slutty, foul-mouthed self to to Wisconsin so that we could become best friends.
Chelsea Handler is a comedienne best known for her show, Chelsea Lately, as well as her previous books (Are You There Vodka?
She brings her edgy, often profane and hilariously offensive sense of humor to this book, which is a collection of one night stands that she has had in her life.
Though each chapter is similar (at the end of the day, this book is about sex.
It happened really fast, like there was a page maximum limit and the book needed to instantly stopped.
If you like her comedy or previous books, this is up your alley.
Loved, loved, loved this book. Chelsea really does take things to the extreme and while I read the book I couldn't believe that it was a memoir. You could have read the book thinking it was fiction the things that she did were so outrageous. If you like Chelsea's humor than this is a book for you. Finished it in about a day because I loved it so much.
This book would make anyone laugh out loud. Or maybe not. Just do me a favor and if you don't like it, don't tell me or I will lose all respect for you.
I thought, well if you pick this one at least you won’t be bored!
She also came off to me like she thought all this stuff she did was just so cute and rascally and unique but she just comes off like an asshole.And there was definitely room in the market for a sex positive funny book about a lady seizing her sexuality and not being ashamed of it.
Listened to this audiobook on a whim today while cleaning my apartment and... meh. It was funny enough and exactly what I was in the mood for, but it was also just a little too crude for my taste. Which tbh is saying something because I rarely (if ever) get offended by comedy.
I figured what the hell, it's 50 cents and I think Chelsea Handler is rather funny on her E!
I laughed out loud frequently and read excerpts of the book to my roommate who exclaimed, "I'd totally be friends with her".
Chelsea is a rather loose woman who certainly has some of the most ridiculously funny sexual exploits I've ever read or heard about.
Although her morals are questionable it makes for quite an entertaining read.
I have to say though, I do not for one hot second believe Chelsea is 33 years old.
channel water making them look old.
I am not a night owl, so I rarely catch "Chelsea Lately" on E!.... however, I am going to have to stop going to bed earlier than a senior citizen and start watching! This book is hilarious and crude (often disturbing!) but was very entertaining.Thanks to Ingrid, who passed it on to me...who received it from her friend Rachel....
I laughed on buses and trains and in restaurants reading this hilarious confessional. It should have been embarrassing but I couldn't stop either the reading or the laughing. This won't be a one night stand for me. I love Chelsea!!
Какво си причиних с тази книга,започвайки я късно вечерта преди пътуване , за което трябваше да стана в 5 часа сутринта.Смях до сълзи , направо на места истеричен ( с който събудих и детето си ).Е, как да спя при това веселие.Как съм я пропуснала,нямам идея. Стилът прилича малко на този на една моя любимка - Кати Лети.Но мисля, че Челси Хендлър е още по-хард. Направо на места е брутална. Но ме изкефи на макс.
There are quite a few less positive reviews on the book and while a lot of them come from people who claim to be very open and not easily offended I don't think that's quite the case.
I don't think Chelsea Handler is racist or anything else like it.
Everyone else will probably get just as big a kick out of it as I have.I celebrate Handler for being so open, while a lot of what she wrote may very well have been embellished, there is NO WAY, it all came from nowhere.
I can't believe how much I disliked this.
I can't believe how much disgust I felt towards Chelsea and literally every other person in the book.
I'm all for sexual liberty and feminism, don't get me wrong.
And one-night stands are certainly nothing bad.
But what Handler was talking about wasn't a healthy relationship towards any of these things.
She was often deceptive and a straight up compulsive liar with the people she ended up being intimate with for no apparent reason what so ever.
Reading this was nasty, to say the least, and I can't believe I actually finished it, because it was DNF worthy.
In this collection of random one-night stands, Chealsea Handler is sarcastic, hilarious, intelligent and witty. Oh, yeah, she's also a slut. This book is as easy as Chelsea - to read, with each one-night stand comprising a chapter, so it's great for put-it-down/pick-it-up readers who can take either a day or a year to finish this collection of stories. Important to note - this is not erotica...the comedian writes on the humorous circumstances and events around the hookup, not the actual sex.
I read this book on the plane to Orlando and read her latest book "Are you there Vodka? It's me, Chelsea" on plane ride back. It was an easy, hilarious read. Chelsea Handler is ruthless and crass but I love her. This book is a tell all about her numerous hookups and relationships. Some of the stories make you cringe but her shamlessness is also refreshing.
I don't like that according to Goodreads that 5 stars means the book was "amazing" because I wouldn't go as far as to say this book was amazing but it was definitely hilarious and laugh-out-loud funny. That's 5 stars in my book.
This woman is a horrible human being. This book is her boasting about what a complete horror of a human being she is.
