https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/12403819-dagon
Is it true that, if in dream, a muse touches a poet, he carries the dream-mark for the rest of his life?I, however, choose to look at the facts another way, a way not entirely comforting: Suppose a middling writer toiled painstakingly, toiled throughout his brief life, to create a few dark gods, and suppose that, a few years before Death took him, he succeeded.
The fish god was a metaphor for conservative America – I mean, maybe you can’t understand it Donald but it’s clear to me and anyone with some sense.John: Um, I think it was about a guy picked up by a German warship, lost at sea, witnessed a Cthulhu like phenomena, lost his mind and got hooked on morphine.
I think kids these days would like it.Donald: Well … no wonder why you’re trailing ME.Announcer: That’s all our time, thank you and goodnight.
Horror at sea.  PHILLISTINE DEITY A sailor after an accident at sea,......he ended up in some kind of island where there is a monolith......used to worship a “sea-god” just like Dagon, the Phillistine sea-god......mentioned in the book of Judges in The Bible.It's a compelling reading but lacking of some punch.
H.P. Lovecraft is often regarded as one of the most influential American horror writers, second only to Edgar Allan Poe, and though Dagon isn't one of his most lauded works, it is filled with his signature themes and stylization, and was such a captivating and phenomenal short read.Lovecraft's style is ornate, vivid, and loaded with archaisms that adds to mystify, lulling the reader into becoming trapped within the story's wall.
I would highly recommend Dagon to readers who appreciate a good classical story featuring a tortured, nameless narrator and his long lived trepidation after encountering a hideously terrifying creature, be it in his worst nightmares or perhaps maybe in reality as well.
Again, there may be other stories that some may argue as being the foundation, but either way I think Lovecraft fans and fanatics can agree Dagon was possible one of Lovecraft's earliest examples of writing psychological and cosmic horror.The plot is simple and the story is short.
I believe Dagon is the tale that shows the style he would become good at and use for his later stories.I wanted to do a more simple, short review of this story as well, as it's only about a few pages long.
"De repente, me llamó la atención un objeto singular que había en la ladera opuesta, el cual se erguía enhiesto como a un centenar de yardas de donde estaba yo; objeto que brilló con un resplandor blanquecino al recibir de pronto los primeros rayos de la luna ascendente. " Este cuento tiene todo lo que esperas de Lovecraft, misterio, atmosfera y un narrador que te hace dudar de todo. La ambientación hace sentir aprisionado y aunque hoy día no parezca terrorífico lo que ha trascendido es la sens
"De repente, me llamó la atención un objeto singular que había en la ladera opuesta, el cual se erguía enhiesto como a un centenar de yardas de donde estaba yo; objeto que brilló con un resplandor blanquecino al recibir de pronto los primeros rayos de la luna ascendente. "
Este cuento tiene todo lo que esperas de Lovecraft, misterio, atmosfera y un narrador que te hace dudar de todo. La ambientación hace sentir aprisionado y aunque hoy día no parezca terrorífico lo que ha trascendido es la sensacion de abandono y desesperanza.El finalen el estilo de Lovecraft, obviamente.
Stunning prose!
This short story really captures what a person felt when he's about to go insane ...
it's vivid and eerie, I love it!
"I cannot think of the deep sea shuddering at the nameless things that may at this very moment be crawling and floundering on its slimy bed, worshipping their ancient stone idols and carving their own detestable likenesses on submarine obelisks of water-soaked granite.
I dream of a day when they may rise above the billows to drag down in their reeking talons the remnants of puny, war-exhausted mankind — of a day when the land shall sink, and the dark ocean floor shall ascend amidst universal pandemonium."
Despite being one of Lovecraft's early stories, it's on par with his later masterpieces such as The Shadow Over Innsmouth and Call of Cthulhu. A very short yet classic tale that touches on one of my greatest fears. The unknown horrors of the sea and the infinite secrets that it holds within itself. The writing is phenomenal, rivaling the effectiveness of his greatest works that he would go on to write at the end of his career.
This is my first encounter with Lovecraft, yet I easily found certain elements contained within these 13 pages to possibly foretell more of what was to come in later tales.
I state this purely based on the fact that I am aware this was one of his earliest works and noted several hints geared toward tales that even those such as myself have some vague familiarity with.I admit that my appreciation for the dark and depressing tale was not instant.
It was not until several hours after having completed the final pages did the full impact of it truly occur to me.
This was a very atmospheric and dark read that left me pondering the possibilities of what had truly happened.
I haven't read any Lovecraft before (just haven't gotten around to it), and I came across this story via a YouTube voice acting competition.LinkI'm not sure what I'd think of the story if I straight-out read it, but I like the atmospheric nature of it and the language is plush and evocative with a mysterious ending.Should really get to Lovecraft one of these days. *looks at TBR & sighs*
A man turns to morphine to deal with something he saw. He decides to kill himself, but first explains the experience responsible for making him insane. The world beneath arose, and worshipped stones call to sea-creatures roaming land. One looks like a fish god worshipping stone.I found it entertaining. Lovecraft never disappoints me.
Lovecraft's first major horror story featuring the unnamed horrors of the deep in a remote island where imagination, fantasy and reality have an orgy all to our poor protagonist's horror!My Rating - 3/5
I know not why my dreams were so wild that night; but ere the waning and fantastically gibbous moon had risen far above the eastern plain, I was awake in a cold perspiration, determined to sleep no more.As soon as I read that line early on in the story, my heart gave a little pitter-patter of delight.
I was stoked.And, of course, a classic close by Lovecraft, which I feel must be shared in its entirety.Often I ask myself if it could not all have been a pure phantasm—a mere freak of fever as I lay sun-stricken and raving in the open boat after my escape from the German man-of-war.
Quick but very imaginative. I love the premise, good stuff.
P. Lovecraft — was an American author of horror, fantasy and science fiction, especially the subgenre known as weird fiction.[1]Lovecraft's guiding aesthetic and philosophical principle was what he termed "cosmicism" or "cosmic horror", the idea that life is incomprehensible to human minds and that the universe is fundamentally inimical to the interests of humankind.
Lovecraft is best known for his Cthulhu Mythos story cycle and the Necronomicon, a fictional grimoire of magical rites and forbidden lore.This got me interested enough to read this story.
I mean an author who can combine HORROR, FANTASY AND SCIENCE FICTION has to be read, maybe just for the heck of it.
A formative story establishing several of the themes that Lovecraft explores later. Inexplicable events such as the rising from the ocean of a vast plain of slime and rotting fish, which sinks again without a trace. Existential horror at the mere existence of nightmare beings which worship at alien monoliths. Drug induced dreams and ineffective attempts to stave off madness. I found it interesting how little this story has to do with the movie of the same name, which is one of my favorites, but even though the threads are tenuous, they are still there.
Every time I read this one it gets better.But be warned it's wordy, very very wordy indeed.
Sé que es uno de los relatos más importantes de Lovecraft, pero no me llega a convencer al 100%. O sea... el prota siente un gran temor por una escultura?? yo sentiría curiosidad. La pregunta es si su aislamiento social fue causa del delirio? Para qué una criatura marina se alejaría del mar para atacarlo?? Creo que es una historia que debe leerse en conjunto con otras del autor.
"I cannot think of the deep sea without shuddering at the nameless things that may at this very moment be crawling and floundering on its slimy bed, worshipping their ancient stone idols and carving their own detestable likenesses on submarine obelisks of water-soaked granite. I dream of a day when they may rise above the billows to drag down in their reeking talons the remnants of puny, war-exhausted mankind -- of a day when the land shall sink, and the dark ocean floor shall ascend amidst universal pandemonium."
"No puedo pensar en las profundidades del mar sin estremecerme ante las espantosas entidades que quizás en este instante se arrastran y se agitan en su fecho fangoso." Por fin alguien entiende mi miedo :( jaja
Rating: 3.75That was really creepy and disturbing but great nonetheless. Good first experience with Lovecraft
I was surprised to like a story as short as this one almost just as much as "The Call of Cthulhu". Really appreciated that for one of H.P. Lovecraft's earliest works, it felt strangely forward looking. Loved the general and wide open atmosphere of the ocean, and then simply stumbling upon an awesome (in the traditional sense of the word) creature and succumbing to the sheer terror of it all.Really felt the thick and practically palpable atmosphere of lingering, peripheral horror that Dagon perpetuates and found lingering once it was over.Essential reading for Lovecraft fans, I feel.
Este relato no esta incluido en Los Mitos de Cthulhu, pero sin duda Dagón es uno de los profundos y primigenios. Es mencionado en "La sombra sobre Innsmouth", donde sus hijos son la fuente de todo mal.
He "leído" este libro bajo formato audiolibro y la expericencia ha sido cuando menos, inolvidable.
Es muy distinto al que leí "La llamada de Cthulhu", es un formato más cercano a los parámetros del relato, más sencillo y con una narración de primera mano de un protagonista, sin mezclar citas, anotaciones, relatos o recuerdos como ocurriera en el otro libro; aún con eso la sensación es similar, de angustia y profundo desconocimiento.
El vocabulario es mucho menos denso, y aun con eso la sensación que desprende este libro es más...
Abisal, si cabe.
Menos tangible y por ello, más curiosa.
Entertaining story. A poor bloke that has been tortured by something he's seen in the past... he's going to cease to be, but first he decided to tell the readers what happened in the Pacific and what was that strange thing he glanced into that dark deep abyss, and why he's been in a constant madness since that...
Eu pude sentir o frio enquanto lia e a umidade quando fechava os olhos pra pensar um pouco no que li.Ainda tenho muito o que conhecer de Lovecraft e há anos eu já me enrolava para ler esse que é um dos mais famosos contos da literatura de terror e digo que vale muito à pena.
O problema é que somos seres cada vez mais visuais e menos impressionáveis, então apesar de ser um conto de terror, não senti medo, mas me envolvi completamente no cenário.
After reading "The Tomb" I turned immediately in my collection of his complete works (which is why I'm counting these individually - don't worry, I'll adjust my reading challenge to make up for it) to "Dagon."It's been a long time since I've read horror that wasn't predictable, even if it was enjoyable just the same. Lovecraft is in an entirely different league from all the rest, and I'm truly enjoying these bizarre short stories where, quite literally, anything can happen.
A short story about a morphine addicted man about to commit suicide over events he saw while lost at sea. Lovecraft has a knack for describing a hellish scene of subconscious nightmares and that's essentially what this book revolves around. The entire description of what this nameless man goes through is gold.
Parece chiste marcar que leíste un cuento de 3 páginas JAJAJAJAJAJA. Hoy mientras esperaba en un consultorio, leí en PDF en el celu esta historia súper corta. Muy entretenida y es lo primero que leo de Lovecraft, espectacular.
Here we go. To me this is the beginning of my love of Lovecraft and the template for all that later Yog Sothothery. It's like a dry run for for Cthulhu - the nautical backdrop, the disgusting creatures below the sea, the madness of comprehension. Love it.
