https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/31554413-the-boy-on-the-bridge
Standing water gets stagnant.i’m sure this is something i knew and just forgot in the period between when i first heard about this book and when i got my hands on an arc, but this book is a prequel to The Girl with All the Gifts.
so don’t be like me, spending the first 2/3 of the book in a state of panic, fretting that you’ve forgotten characters’ relationships to each other during the three/four years' worth of books you've read since then, struggling to even remember what happened in The Girl with All the Gifts beyond the very memorable stuff, because for the most part, none of that matters.
Set in the same world as  The Girl With All The Gifts , this one follows a group of soldiers and scientists traveling out from London to find anything they can that will help create a cure to the plague.
The story is taking place before  The Girl With All The Gifts  and so a lot of the information that we have on the plague hasn't been found out yet.
The story specifically revolves around Dr. Khan and Stephen more so than the rest of the team because Dr. Khan is pregnant and Stephen is the first to observe that children are different than adults infected by the virus.
It involves the crew (military and scientists) of the Rosalind Franklin, AKA Rosie.
Unbeknownst to the crew, there are some political actions taking place.
I even wanted to punch Steven Greaves, the genius teenaged boy a few times and I guess he couldn't really help himself.So many secrets - and this is NOT an environment for people to have separate agendas, when everyone's life is on the line.
Everything was bound to go FUBAR.I kind of wish I had re-read the first book because I didn't really remember anyone or anything outside of Caldwell and Melanie.
The way Mr. Carey justifies their behaviour (at least in their own eyes) is simply amazing, showing the author's depth of human understanding.As with its predecessor, the Girl with All the Gifts, in this book, too, we are faced with a post-apocalyptic Britain, suffering from the Breakdown and, of course, a bunch of flesh-hungry hungeries.
Once again we face with a story devoid of (or at the very least with the minimum of) classic protagonists, in that regard that each character, with his/her wish for survival, is the protagonist of his/her microcosm.Last but not least, The Boy on the Bridge may not have that much of intense excitement unlike many other books in the bookstores (like, for example, Red Rising.
The beginning and end - simply stunning. The middle - a giant cesspool of infected matterThank goodness that the plot holes from the first book (The Girl with All the Gifts) were patched and filled in. And I was delighted that the hopeless-ending from the first book was wrapped up beautifully in this book's epilogue. For that alone, the book gets 3-stars but that middle? Completely ruined the novel. Why? It was the same as the first novel. Between the similar narration and the overlapping plot,
Between the similar narration and the overlapping plot,  I would actually forget which novel I was in.
Just like the first novel, we end up with a team of scientists with soldier guards running around in Rosie (the tank-like portable medical unit) being pursued by the hungry-children.
The soldiers and scientists spend so much time backstabbing and squabbling that I wanted them all to die.
The author did an amazing job of bringing the audience to Steven's level.Then there's the one-dimensional hatred of the rest of team for Steven.
It was the same tone and inflections as the same novel.
Sadly, he doesn't.In this book, a team of twelve is headed off in the Rosalind to retrieve samples from the Charles Darwin expedition, as well as conduct their own research, in the hopes of finding a cure for the fungus destroying humanity.There's a lot of parallels with the first book here: an isolated group of people, an ostracized/under-socialized teen, an older female mentor, the threat of the 'hungries' and junkers, the spirit of scientific inquiry.
I was never emotionally invested enough to care when it did happen (see Jurassic Park).I'm just realizing this, but I've read a number of stories lately with an isolated group of people in a supposedly tension-filled situation (thinking of Six Wakes.
It was also a novel that didn't leave you guessing at the end – an explosive reveal made it absolutely clear how what the fate of any survivors was to play out.So, this prequel novel was always going to face a number of, possibly insurmountable, problems: most significantly, the fact that the big story had already been told.
In consequence, the tale starts to have a very similar feel to the first book – but unfortunately without the surprises.
No seriously!ANYWAY The Boy on the Bridge is tagged as The Girl with all the Gifts book 2 but it is not that, it is a brilliant companion novel set in the same world, you can read this perfectly easily as a standalone book, although there are some lovely little gifts (yes I did that) for you if you have read Girl first.
The ones that will give that over and over no matter how many times you read them.The Girl with all the Gifts and The Boy on the Bridge are such books for me – whether they would be for you or not I cannot tell but what I can do is recommend that you at least give it a try.
My actual rating is 3.5.
There were a lot of things I liked.
The exploration of the hungries, certain sequences were really good, there was some good action, the ways it tied into TGWATG, and I really liked the ending, but I found the characters severely lacking.
Most of them were indistinguishable from each other and the ones that were more heavily featured or had slightly more personality still felt fairly lifeless (pun unintended),flat, and one dimensional.
My lack of interest in any of the characters meant that I didn't care about what happened to any of them which isn't good in a story like this.Full review to come.
To where the monsters lived.عنوان: پسری روی پل؛ نویسنده: مایک کری؛ مترجم: بهنام حاجی زاده؛ ویراستار: نازنین نخعی؛ بازبین و تصحیح نهایی: رضا قلندری؛ مشخصات نشر: تهران؛ باژ؛ چاپ نخست زمستان 1396؛ در 512 ص؛ تصویرگر: پویا ظریف؛ مدیر هنری: خسر خسروی؛ دبیر مجموعه: نیما کهندانی؛ شابک: 9786008941255؛ موضوع: داستانهای نویسندگان انگلیسی - قرن 21 مخلاصه: روزی روزگاری، در سرزمینی که ترس آفت آن شده بود، پسرک خیلی باهوشی زندگی می‌کرد.
مردم فکر کردند پسرک می‌تواند نجات‌شان بدهد، برای همین هم دروازه‌ ها را گشودند و او را بیرون فرستادند.
فرستادند جایی که هیولاها زندگی می‌کردند..؛ ا.
This aspect sets The Boy on the Bridge apart, enhancing the story with side-plots dealing with complicated friendships and enmities and details of secret alliances and betrayals.Keeping in mind that all the events in The Girl with All the Gifts are still in the future, there’s also a lot the world doesn’t know yet, so the fears of the Rosie crew are understandable.
The real shockers are all left for the end, because even though we already know that the Rosie will bring home no cure to save the world, it’s the whys and the hows of it that will ultimately be the most revealing.
Trust me when I say that it takes one heck of an incredible writer to wrap a dystopian story around me so that it feels like a welcome comfort.
Despite the intense suspense and strangeness here, there is humanity and nobleness in this story and its characters.If you've read the previous book by this author called The Girl With All the Gifts, you'll know that - yup - zombies are on the prowl.
The goal is a cure for the "hungry" virus or a preventative or a method to exterminate the mindless cannibals that have taken over the world.In the previous book, a single girl was the focus of the story, and here we meet a teenaged boy who is an orphaned savant.
This book tells the story of how the abandoned tank/lab they found in TGWAtG, the Rosalind Franklin, got to be where she was and what happened to her crew.
That's all I'll say about the plot.In a way, this book is like TGWAtG, except instead of a special girl, we have a special boy.
There is also the fact that we know the ending from the get-go, and I think that took away from the suspense a little bit.
Lastly, I'm not sure all the science-y bits actually made sense, but even if they did I wasn't much interested in that aspect of the story.
“The Boy on the Bridge is very much its own thing, not a continuation of Melanie’s story but a new journey with a new cast of characters. But it answers a lot of questions that The Girl With All the Gifts implicitly asked.” -M.R. Carey   The Boy on the Bridge might be marketed as the sequel to The Girl with All the Gifts or the second installment in a series by the same name, but please know that if it has to be classified as anything, it should really be a prequel. The Boy on the Bridge is se
The Boy on the Bridge might be marketed as the sequel to The Girl with All the Gifts or the second installment in a series by the same name, but please know that if it has to be classified as anything, it should really be a prequel.
The Boy on the Bridge is set ten years prior to the events and characters in The Girl with All the Gifts and can absolutely be read on its own.
Admittedly, I was thoroughly confused when I started reading this book because of all the new characters (and my lack of knowledge about the sequel versus prequel thing).
DNF @ 26%I bought this as soon as it was released, I was really excited to read it since I absolutely LOVE The Girl with All the Gifts but this is just a huge disappointment.It's completely dull and just, boring.I might pick it up later to finish it so I can give it a more proper rating. (I really don't like DNFing books no matter how bad they are)
A prequel to The Girl With All the Gifts this does a great job of reintroducing us to a complex dystopian world where the monsters may not be as ‘monstrous’ as first thought.
From a world that is well established in ‘The Girl With All The Gifts’ I think it was a smart move to do a prequel rather than rehash a story that was so well concluded as it allowed for a greater degree of freedom for the author to introduce new concepts and characters without interfering with the original story.
This is an Advance Reading Copy
Original Post:  The Boy on the Bridge  at FLYLēF (www.flylef.com)ONE OF MY proudest book recommendation moments was on the day of my supervisor’s retirement, when I wished him well and handed him a wrapped, blue gem named  Fellside . It was my last ditched attempt to prove that I could make a good book recommendation especially having failed in my previous attempt. Yes, I was on a mission. That mission ended (sigh of relief) weeks later when I received an e-mail from him expressing nothing but l
Truth be told, I think I could have wrapped up any book by M.R. Carey and would have been equally successful, especially his latest masterpiece and the star of this review The Boy on the Bridge (The Girl With All The Gifts 2).Though The Boy on the Bridge is the second installment in the series, it could be read as a standalone, consisting of a completely new cast of characters.
However, I highly recommend starting from the beginning because the characters from both books do intersect.
The Boy on the Bridge takes place a year after The Girl With All The Gifts.
I was very disappointed that Carey didn't really try to do something new with this world that he created that enthralled so many readers in the first book."The Boy on the Bridge" follows multiple points of view (just like "The Girl With All the Gifts" did) but unlike with that book, I didn't read with breathless anticipation.
Lieutenant McQueen was another character I just didn't believe for a second his motivations (he blames Carlisle for the state of things since he didn't take over things in Beacon and let others do damage) and he proceeds to do a series of dumb things that you would think someone at his level would have better sense about.Colonel Carlisle was another figure who seemed to sleepwalk through this whole book til almost the end.
The book takes place when an autistic savant teen, a member of the science team in the tank laboratory, discovers that second generation Hungries retain part of their humanity.
This is not your typical zombie book.
It's the literary gold of zombie stories.
I think the plot is slow because Carey is such a master at inner dialog and description.
This book isn't as good as the sequel, The Girl With All the Gifts, but it's worth reading, especially if you run quickly through the first half of the novel.
It is from there that our little gang of characters set out to study what remains between Southern England and Scotland, and maybe, just maybe, find a cure for the Cordyceps fungus.Onboard the heavily armed and armoured travel trailer called the Rosalind Franklin or Rosie, is a crew of 12, 6 scientists and 6 military.
Dr Alan Fournier, a worthless excuse of a human being, leads the science team which consists of Samrina Kahn, Lucien Akimwe, John Sealey, Elaine Penny and the hero of the book, a 15 year old autistic boy, Stephen Greaves.
As readers, privileged to be given insight into Stephen's perspective, we realize that a scientific breakthrough by the boy is probably humanity's only hope.
But will his teammates recognize his value before it's too late?While I really liked the book, I also thought that Stephen - the main character - was unfortunately the story's main weakness.
That said, the book is wonderfully written, with plenty of tension, thought-provoking content, a good mix of cynicism and hope - and some great surprises along the way.Fans of 'The Girl Will All the Gifts' may enjoy the parallels between the two stories.
LINK UPDATEDThe Girl With All The Gifts has been on my best of the year list for two years running, for the physical book and the audiobook respectively, so words are incapable of describing how much I was anticipating this new book.It does not disappoint.The Boy on the Bridge is actually a prequel, and it follows the events that led to the Rosalind Franklin, the mobile, armoured lab, being left where the crew of The Girl With All The Gifts would discover it a couple of decades later, but you should read The Girl With All The Gifts first, if you haven’t already!Until now readers, along with the cast of The Girl With All The Gifts, could only speculate as to what happened, and none of it was good.
He finds this interesting and compelling as he observes and ultimately interacts with them.A team of scientists and military personnel are on-board, Rosie, which is basically an armored RV/motor home/lab, looking for a cure for the fungus that turns people into zombies/hungries.
There are several characters in this book, but the main ones are Stephen and Dr. Samrina Khan.
I liked that this book was not only about the hungries and finding the cure but also about humans trying to survive and the things they did for and against each other.
I rooted for and wanted more of the characters in this first book, and although; I liked Stephen and Khan, they did not wow me.
This is one of those books that, when you finish, you sit still, your mind whirring over, and reflect on what a fantastic reading experience that was. It's different from The Girl with all the Gifts but in one way it's the same - in its excellence.
This was pretty bad!!I enjoyed The Girl With All the Gifts immensely - I thought it was creepy, clever and original.
For a group of soldiers and scientists on a supposedly life-and-death mission 10 years into the zombie apocalypse, everyone behaved more or less like petty Big Brother housemates, instead of actually working together to achieve whatever it was they were there to achieve.The story is basically a rehash from Girl as well, except, this being the second time we are in that universe, the element of surprise is completely gone from the story (oh, how strange, there seem to be children among the zombies!
That said, there is something about the world I had no idea of before reading The Girl With All the Gifts that gave an additional level of mystery and suspense that I think I could miss if I had known ahead of time.
And like I said earlier, I think if I had read this first, it might have slightly lessened the intrigue in The Girl with All the Gifts, so I am happy I read them in this order.The Boy on the Bridge is centered mainly around a crew in a mobile lab.
The only reason it's lacking that 1/2 star is because in comparison to The Girl With All the Gifts, I didn't have quite the emotional connection to the characters in this book that I did its predecessor.
I also couldn't have asked for a better ending to the way this story played out.So while The Girl With All the Gifts tops this one for me, The Boy on the Bridge was definitely worth another foray into the world M.R. Carey has created with the aftermath of Cordyceps and his hungries.
مایک کری رو همیشه دوست داشتم و دارم.عاشق نثرشم. شخصیت پردازیش عالیه و کرکترایی که خلق میکنه کاملا واقعیان. توی کتاب دختری با تمام موهبتها ، نویسنده یه نمه از استعدادشو نشونمون داد، ولی دیگه پسری روی پل تهش بود. چرا؟  شخصیتپردازیِ فوقالعاده. واقعا عالی. تک تک شخصیتا رو با دقت زیادی پردازش کرده. جای جای داستان بلند میشدم و کف میزنم که بحبح ، چه شخصیتهای انسانی و واقعیای. چه واکنشهای خوبی دربرابر محرکهای طبیعی. چه احساسات بهجا و درستی . چه رفتارای عجیب ولی قابل درکی. داستان برمیگرده به دهسال پیش از
توی کتاب دختری با تمام موهبت‌ها ، نویسنده یه نمه از استعدادشو نشون‌مون داد، ولی دیگه پسری روی پل ته‌ش بود.
و همین اونو به شخصیتی جذاب و جالب‌توجه‌ای تبدیل می‌کنه.بعد از استفن هم دو شخصیت هست که میشه گفت تاثیر مهمی داشتن در کلیت داستان، یکی دکتر خان هست، دکتر سمرینا خان که استفن به عنوان مادرش میبینتش و تنها کسیه که اجازه میده بهش دست بزنه و باهاش راحته.این دکتر ما ، همونطور که تو فصل اول گفته میشه، در همان اول‌های سفر، باردار میشه.
البته، تاثیر زیادی داره این بچه‌هه ، و توی آخر داستان هم نقشش پررنگ‌تر میشه.اون یکی شخصیت تاثیر گذار، فرمانده آیزاک کارلایله ، فرمانده نظامی که به عنوان آتش‌نشان می‌شناسنش.
And my hopes to experience again the spiritual world of GWATG were disappointed.
Superficially this book is set in the same world, with ‘Hungries’ & ‘Junkers’ & an Odyssey through Britain in a combination APC/Lab/RV with a crew of soldiers, scientists, & a child who isn’t quite human, tho’ in Stephen’s case his alien pecularities are mental rather than physical like Melanie’s.
That would be perfectly truthful.Besides the boring Stephen being so inferior a character to the lovable Melanie, entirely too much of this book simply goes over (sometimes literally) ground we’ve traversed in GWATG.
