https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/3002300-chains
(yeah, genius just looked at the back of the book to find it says "ages 10 and up", so let's pretend i just had an original idea and move along.) it is very much like one day in the life of ivan denisovich in this way - you know there are terrible things happening to other people in this situation, but overall, considering the circumstances, ivan had a pretty good day - little extra food, little light labor - not as bad as it could have been.
As she says of the book, “A decade ago, while researching  Fever 1793, I came across facts that shocked me; that Benjamin Franklin owned slaves, that twenty percent of New York City in 1776 was held in bondage, and that the Revolution was not fought for the freedom of all Americans.” The result of this shock is Chains, a complex but kid-friendly look at the Revolutionary War through the eyes of a Loyalist’s slave.
As Anderson says in her Author’s Note at the end, “you really can’t look at this through good guy/bad guy glasses.” So it is that you end up with a book that is nuanced, historically accurate within an inch of its life, and infinitely readable.
So far, a powerful book, and one that's hard to put down.After finishing: A disconcerting look at New York City during the Revolutionary War from the point of view of Isabel, a black girl living there, hearing talk of freedom, and being reminded over and over again by both sides that the talk isn't about freedom for her.
I loved this book the vivid prose that made me feel like I really was in New York in 1776.
[3.5 Stars]
And if a girl was to seek her freedom, how could she do such a foolheaded thing?"Isabel and her little sister Ruth are promised their freedom upon the death of their owner, Mrs. Finch.
Isabel wants the freedom she was promised and she will not stop until she gets it.Its been a while since I read a Laurie Halse Anderson book.
Instead of freedom, they were sold to a heartless couple with strong loyalists ties.
Promised freedom by the British, thousands of slaves fled to the loyalist side but most did menial jobs.
Besides the narrative, I enjoyed all the rich details presented of the markets and the people, the atmospheric portrait of a divided city, the meeting place at the well where slaves and servants stood in line for water and fellowship, the parades, the Continental and British Armies, the boarding houses, the Hessians, the foods and smells, as well as the hardships, the Tories, the secrets, the prison…..all masterfully crafted to create an immersive story and plot with very well researched details.
Tories, spies, secret plots....this book needs to be passed on and read by all kids.
It's taken me forever to getting around to writing a review of this book -- I read it about six weeks ago. I suppose this is because it's getting near-universal acclaim, while I found it rather ho-hum. Perhaps reading all the positive reviews of this book got my expectations up too high.My main complaint is that the protagonist, Isabel, doesn't come off as a believable 18th-century character to me. It's the same problem I had with  Catherine Called Birdy  -- a girl in that time and place may hav
But Anderson gives us little information regarding Isabel's life before the Locktons, so I can only guess that her previous owner spent an unusual amount of time educating her, which seems unlikely, especially since we are told that her former owner spent her last years in dottering senility.This is just one example of how strange a character Isabel seemed to me -- more like a 21st century girl in costume than a believable person from her time and place.To me, being able to correctly portray not just the events and details of a historical period, but its attitudes and ways of thinking is the most important aspect of historical fiction (and probably the most difficult to portray).
Laurie Halse Anderson always writes well. My heart was in my mouth all the way. Sal is wonderful and feisty, trying to find a way out of a situation that appears to have no way out. My only objection is that there's a sequel and I don't have it!
An amazing book! I was so cheering Isabel on!
This book has sat on my shelf for literally a decade. I've never had the urge to pick it up but always had this nagging feeling that I should read it someday. Now I'm reading it and I'm just... not engaged. Am I a terrible person?Personally I just don't think I'm a fan of Laurie Halse Anderson's writing. I couldn't get through Speak either and Wintergirls was a two-star read for me.Oh well. I'm glad it's finally off my to-read shelf.
When their former owner dies, two girls should be free. The heir, however, decides to sell them to a cruel Loyalist couple in New York. There, Isobel (the older and responsible sister) struggles to protect her younger epileptic sister. This book does a good job of explaining the confusion surrounding slavery during the American Revolution, and ties historical events to a character that we grow to care about.
Young adults are the target audience, but the only way you can tell is that there is perhaps a narrower focus than you might find in an adult book.
Thirteen-year-old Isabel tells her story from her limited situation, but brings in important events taking place in the larger arena at the start of our Revolutionary War. This is a very well-told, well-researched story that just flows so nicely.
There's a lot of skillful descriptive writing that made me put down the book and get a picture of the scene in my mind.
Isabel is a strong, intelligent, resourceful girl who doesn't let the despair keep her down.
Caveat: I don't like historical fiction, generally.
Have I said that before?
I felt like the story was structured around the research, rather than rising organically from something.
I felt like there were cool historical facts she wanted to impart, and she structured the story around the facts.
The chapter headings, which are primary source quotes from history, only exaggerated this fact.
And even with short chapters, which I usually love, it took me ages to read this.
It just felt too much like something a teacher would assign as a curricular tie, rather than a story in and of itself.
During the Revolutionary War, while Patriots fought for freedom from British tyranny, the enslavement of African captives continued on both sides.
Laurie Halse Anderson provides another perspective on the war, told through the experiences of Isabel, a black slave in a Tory household, who is used as a pawn to spy for the rebels, who promise to help her gain her freedom.I thought this book provided a new lens for looking at the Revolutionary War (and slavery) and I look forward to passing this book to my sixth grade students.
This book is similar in to Anderson's other great historical fiction book, Fever 1793.
Set in New York in 1776, Chains is narrated by Isabel, a 13-year-old girl who tells the story of her enslavement and subsequent turn as an American spy.
Horribly abused by the her new owners, the Locktons (especially cruel is Madam Lockton), Isabel actively begins sharing secrets from the Lockton loyalists to the Patriot soldiers.Commendably, Anderson doesn't attempt to whitewash Isabel's treatment at the hands of the Locktons.
And that's where Anderson's book is so savvy: she doesn't play sides, except to tell Isabel's story – which means, I suppose, that her only side is the truth.
In New York a 13 year old girl, Isabel, is looking forward to her own freedom from slavery.
Buy when her owner dies, a distant nephew and the lady's only heir states the promised release from slavery does not exist, and claims the girls as his property.
He tries to convince her to spy upon her new Loyalist owners.
Isabel becomes spy for the Patriots after they promised her freedom.
When she learns the Royalists offer freedom to slaves who escape and join the army she switches sides to help them.
Anderson's novel is brimming with historical facts, but rarely do they feel out of place.Anderson's story is heartbreaking, on multiple levels.
These add an additional layer to the story, as we get information that would never be available to Isabel, and are witnesses to some of the terrible hypocrisy of the time that leads and entire country to war for the ideals of life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness, and yet systematically denies those rights to hundreds of thousands of people in the country.Overall, this is definitely another page turner from Laurie Halse Anderson.
Chains was a wonderful book by Laurie Halse Anderson - sad and filled with sorrow, but hopeful at the same time.
She works for an inhumane Tory family, of whom the headmistress is especially evil.
Isabel is inspirited though, and will do whatever it takes to free herself and her sister from the clutches of their master.I did not know there was going to be a sequel (I don't think it says so on the cover) but I guess that's a good thing.
Laurie Halse Anderson really delivered in Chains.
I love me some historical fiction and this one was one of my favorites.
I appreciate the way Anderson approached slavery in colonial-turned-independent America for several reasons.
1) The story is based mostly in New York City, not the south.
It's easy to forget that slavery was pervasive once and no region without guilt.
2) The treatment of Isabel (the main character) was accurate, yet age appropriate for the reader.
Characters in the book grapple with this idea of freedom for some, but not others.
I thought this was a young adult novel but it was aimed at a younger audience.
It would be an appropriate middle grade read for grades 5-8, but was so well written it could easily appeal to teens and adults as well.Chains is set at the start of the Revolutionary War. I'm no history expert but this felt like it was an accurate account of what life was like at that time period.
My daughter has to read several historical fiction novels this year and I'm going to recommend she choose this as one of them.Rating: 4.5 StarsContent: CleanSource: Library
I really loved this. It is so well written and really shows how unjust slavery was. The characters were very interesting, too. This is a really great story (it is also set in the same time period as Hamilton). I love all of the characters and seeing what they do next. I'm glad that I read this for book group again just because I got to read it in a new way. I definitely recommend it, especially if you like historical fiction.
The Locktons are Loyalists with Patriots for neighbors, and soon clever Isabel finds herself embroiled in a spy network, even as she struggles to protect Ruth from Madam Lockton’s cruelty and rage.What side should she take in a war where neither side wants to set her free?SettingAnderson brings the colonies to life in all their wide-ranging grossness—the captured soldiers in the dungeons, living and dead unsorted, are chained in their filth and prone to the worst diseases, while upper-class ladies glue mouse fur to their eyebrows and drunken Hessians blow their noses on tablecloths.
Review can be found on my blog. Link below:https://betweenthepagesbooks.wixsite....
This book is about 13 yr old Isabel, who is a slave during the time of the American Revolution.
She was hesitant to do this until the Locktons sell Ruth, and Isabel realizes she would be willing to do anything for her freedom so she can be reunited with her sister.
I love YA historical fiction that isn't about scandalous socialites and steamy romances.
This isn't the first book I've read that was narrated by a slave during the revolution (The Pox Party) but it certainly was the most relatable.
This book was so many things; riveting, thought-provoking, horrifying, hopeful, joyous.
I want to thank Laurie Halse Anderson for writing about a time period that I "thought" I knew about.
Her book clearly shows me that I have much to learn.
The story is based around Isabel, a young slave girl, who is sold to a very cruel Tory family.
Everything takes place in New York.
If you teach the Revolutionary War time period, then you may want to read this to give your students a different glimpse into a slave's life during this war.
Best part, she's writing a sequel!!
I was not expecting to like this book as much as I did. It was so unique, and interesting take on the revolutionary war. I found myself so cought up in Isabels life that it was hard to put down. While not told from a Christian perspective, this book was fairly respectful of faith. The characters were so masterfully crafted that I knew each one the moment they came on page. I look forward to reading the next book.
I want to give it 3.5 stars but I can't.It was a good look into the life of a younger slave I laughed when the mistresses fake eyebrow fell into the trice pudding. I laughed way too hard. For a middle grade book, it was what you would expect. But it's not something I would go gushing about everywhere and yell in people's faces for them to read it.
I would recommend this book to anybody who loves to read historical fiction. I loved Isabel's character, I loved her personality. I didn't think I would like this book very much but it's definitely a must-read for everybody.
An opportunity opens for Isabel to be a spy for the Patriots, and she works hard, because,through the Patriots, will she be able to finally be free from the Locktons?I want to recommend this book, but again, I don't really know to whom, because I didn't like it myself.
I think that this won't stop me from reading more of the author's work, because I feel as if there is something that I can find for myself.As you may know, I am a HUGE Hamilton fan, and because of this, and the time period, this book won an extra .5 stars.
“She cannot chain my soul.”Award-winning young reader account of the plight of slaves in colonial North America.
Isabel was probably more articulate in her feelings, but those emotions ring true.
Honest look at the errors and hypocrisy of both sides.“It mattered not.
My bones were hollow and my brainpan empty.”Anderson skillfully wove historic facts--battles, destruction of the king’s statue, the fire, Hessians--into plausible descriptions of the life and observations of a young enslaved girl.
The whole has a readable, authentic feel.“Both sides say one thing and do the other.”Minor chronological errors, but closer to fact than many popular Revolutionary War dramas.“I was chained between nations.”
