https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/15197.Maus_II
This second volume continues the powerful story of Vladek Spiegelman, a Jewish survivor of the Holocaust.I haven't been able to stop thinking about the author and his dad's story.
It is horrific but at the same time it carries a message of hope and survival.
In this volume we find Vladek in Auschwitz and his experiences there are described in detail, however, amidst the atrocities the author is able to interject some humour here and there.
The author also explores deeper his relationship with his aging father.This novel is absolutely extraordinary, insightful and heartbreaking, I will never forget it and highly recommend it to all.
Since I'd read Maus I about a year ago and Nadja Spiegelman's enticing memoir in the summertime, I was beyond ecstatic to find this second volume on the shelves of my local library.And since it's been quite a while, I was grateful that this volume had a quick recap at the start of what occurred before:Art Spiegelman, a cartoonist born after WW II, is working on a book about what happened to his parents as Jews in wartime Poland. He has made a series of visits to his childhood home in Rego Park,
Art becomes furious when he learns that his gather, Vladek, has burned Anja's wartime memoirs.
They were caught and, in March, 1944, they were brought to the gates of Auschwitz.Once again this graphic novel left me at a loss for words, so I think it's for the best if I'll just share those scenes that evoked certain strong emotions in me:
It's sad, but the above three images gave me a glimmer of hope in this world full of cruel and inhuman suffering (that is to say: before I'd read the last panel, but still).This graphic novel also educated me a lot, which I wasn't expecting.
Fantastic conclusion. I think I enjoyed this one even more than the first. The two stories of Vladek in the past and Vladek in the present really explore interesting topics of generational gaps as well as national differences. Art's American sensibility versus his father's stinginess--a result of his wartime survival--is extremely understandable and well explored in this volume. It's a harrowing story but so uniquely told and such a wonderful insight into one man's Holocaust survival, I would highly recommend it. 4.5 stars
In this volume, we are treated to an insider's view of daily life at a Nazi concentration camp.As with Maus I, the fact that it is written in comic-book format does nothing to soften the impact - if anything, it heightens it.
Did he survive because these traits were inbuilt, or did the camp life make him what he is?
Tantalising question.For me, the most impressive part of the book was the second one, where Art tries to come to terms with his father's death as well as the ethics of making a book out of his life.
Such a powerful book!
When I was a boy living in Germany, my parents and I visited Dachau concentration camp.It was horrible.
The visit drove home to me the magnitude of the horror that had been perpetrated there, and the madness of the people who had orchestrated it.Maus II is mostly concerned with Vladek's time in Auschwitz.
This graphic novel really drove home to me what the inmates of the camps had to do to survive.
That stripping of humanity gets lost sometimes beside the greater horror of the scale of death and destruction they left in their wake.Maus II also deals more intimately with Art's relationship with his father.
When I was a kid I read comic books (mostly Superman). The Maus books are the only graphic novels I've read and I consider them masterpieces (Mausterpieces?). Like Spiegelman's alter ego, I was a middle class child growing up in Queens (NYC), the son of Holocaust survivors and couldn't communicate with my father when I was growing up. He got it down perfectly. It was spot on and ranks among the best of Holocaust related literature.
I needed to know the rest of Vladek's story from the time he and his wife entered Auschwitz.
And so, as I turned the first page of this book, I braced myself for what was to come, knowing it would be bad, though I was still unprepared for what amounted to diving into an open wound.
And it left me aching for Art and his father who only seemed to connect on the surface during the time Vladek recited his story at his son's prodding.
As with the first book in this two volume series, book two has scenes with Art and Vladek in the present intercut with those in the past during the Holocaust.
It’s always nice when you completely understand why something has achieved its status.
A book of humor, horror, and above all, complexity.
Spiegelman tells his father’s story as faithfully as he can, while remaining aware that he can’t tell that story faithfully at all – it’ll always be clouded by the way he views his father.
I’ve read plenty of books about the Holocaust – academic volumes, memoir, fiction – but this is the best at capturing just how random survival was, and how “survivor” both is and isn’t the defining trait of the flawed, irritating, endearing humans who survived the Nazi extermination.
I think the rating I gave this novel was too low.
I wish I could give this book as many stars as possible.
This book, and the book that came before it are so important.
They let us know about the struggles that the author's own father faced during the Holocaust.
We even got to how the father acted when Spiegelman asked his father questions to get information.
This story is such a different way of compiling the hardships of the author's father that it made it so much more compelling.
I would recommend this graphic novel to everyone and everyone.
"I can't even make sense out of my relationship with my father--how am I supposed to make sense out of the Holocaust?" - Art Spiegelman‘Maus, II: And Here My Troubles Began’ continues with the painful story of ‘Vladek Spiegelman’ from where ‘Maus I’ left off but in a more intense manner.
Instead of going much into the greater portrayals of the slaughters and atrocities of the death camp this approach of highlighting the individual perseverance of ‘Vladek Spiegelman’ as a survivalist makes ‘Maus II’ a great attempt by the author in his quest for understanding his father and his past.
Discovering these hidden clues and reading between the lines made me feel like I was getting to know and understand Spiegelman more, and feel more of an affinity with his story.
His father’s story had already touched my heart but this second volume provided more of an insight into the author and the artist, and a deeper look into how the past has altered and affected the present.Art, in the novel, is not concerned with his father’s present sufferings as they seem small compared to those of his father’s youth - his incarceration in Auschwitz.
Vol 2.... Pulitzer prize winning book.Art Spieglman takes us deep inside in concentration camps....and really shows us how life was day to day.This book is so hard to put down once you begin...It's so frickin sad --- ( we take the in horrors on probably the deepest of deepest levels, from a book about the Holocaust) The graphic depictions are the most brilliant creation of all ... everything about these illustrations works ---( their artistic design and purpose are flawless).
I didn't like this quite as much as the first volume, but it is still amazing and sad.
Brilliant. This story in comic book format should be widely distributed for free in the US and other places where lots of people seem to think that Nazis are OK. Nazis are not OK.
The brilliance continues while the story becomes even more difficult to read.
This heartbreakingly challenging father-son relationship becomes more the focal point of this book and it is masterfully drawn and examined in every frame.
Laid out on these pages is the guilt felt by a son who does not understand his father, but who knows his father has endured and survived the unimaginable.
A continuation of the author's loving tribute to his difficult father, this one killed me on the first (dedication) and last pages.
I applaud Art Spiegelman for using art to explore his life.
It was an honor to share in this haunting exploration.
The conclusion to the powerful story of Maus. A son is collecting his father's horror stories from the Holocaust. Told as mice vs cats. I still can't imagine what these people went through. The art tells the story, it's grim art for a grim story. This also shows how difficult it is to come out of a survival mode mentality. Vladik is still a surviver.I hope the world never sees anything like this again.This is a classic book and yes, it deserves to be on the top of the Best of Graphic Novel lists. Powerful.
This second Maus book finishes up the story of Vladek and Anja Spiegelman's experiences in Auschwitz and Birkenau at the end of WWII.
'Maus' is the German word for 'mouse' and Art Spiegelman – the son and author – chose to portray the Jewish people in his cartoon as mice because of a disparaging German newspaper article in the mid-1930s which belittled Mickey Mouse as the most miserable ideal ever revealed and upheld the Swastika Cross as the highest.
When I read stories like that, I know what a difference small (and not-so-small) kindnesses can make.
it was the story of son ("artie") telling the story based on a retelling from his father's memory, which does not always seem to serve correctly.
the father is hopelessly scarred with sadness and mistrust, while the son is scarred with the guilt of not having been in auschwitz.
artie's mother, also an auchwitz survivor, has killed herself at this point from either guilt or sadness, or both.the pictures use the nazis' own metaphor, turning the jews into mice (and the nazis into cats).
*Reread March 2015 for schoolI cannot get over how powerful these book are. I'll be doing a video review soon so stay tuned for that.
Yep. There's a reason this won a Pulitzer Prize.
(Note: This review is pretty much the same as what I wrote for Volume 1)Using the comic book format to tell the story of the author's parents surviving the Holocaust seemed like a strange way of going about it.
The author's father says that his mother had written many accounts of her memories of the Holocaust in her journals in the hopes that some day her son would take an interest in them.
Needless to say, the author has to deal with issues of anger--and this anger is acknowledged in both volumes.
Find this and other Reviews at In Tori LexIn this volume the author balances detailing the relationship that he has with his father, with describing the atrocities that his father lived through. He notes that he's not sure Vladek did survive Auschwitz, not in a way that's important. The fourth wall is also broken, and we learn how much the author struggled to tell this story, and how uncertain he was that he would be able to do it justice.   It's clear from the notoriety that this volume gained,
Find this and other Reviews at In Tori LexIn this volume the author balances detailing the relationship that he has with his father, with describing the atrocities that his father lived through.
He notes that he's not sure Vladek did survive Auschwitz, not in a way that's important.
It's clear from the notoriety that this volume gained, he told this story in a way that people could relate to and welcome it.
The result was a unforgettable account of Vladek's  determination to survive, and help others at all costs.
This volume included the stories of people who were not as lucky as Vladek.
Well once you start this book you cannot stop or at least those are my sentiments.
The book really carries on where the first left off -at the gates of Auschwitz - (no wonder now they are collected in a single volume) and as harrowing as the first volume was this is even more so - really the two books should be reviewed together to preserve the passion and horror of the story.
By making the protagonists slightly fantastical you are made to concentrate more on the story than on bonding with the storytellers for example.
Either way the book truly does deserve the praise and recognition it has and where possible new readers should be encouraged to travel in the footsteps of Art Spiegelman and his father.
Neste 2º volume, sempre lido de dentro para fora, com uma intimidade absorvente, é continuado o relato trágico da perseguição Nazi aos judeus, indo, agora, mais além na sua barbárie e complexidade literária.
Ficam presentes as cicatrizes de quem (sobre)viveu a Auschwitz, como se vê no pai Spiegelman, como esta forma de terrorismo entranhou-se nas vidas das pessoas e nunca mais as libertou.Nada mais há a dizer de livros assim: têm que ser recomendados e lidos.
I don't even know what to say. I just hope nothing like Holocaust ever happens again.
Not sure how I missed shelving this one before.*FacePalm.*
Maus II is not just about the Holocaust, it is also about the tortured relationship between the author and his father.Artie confesses to his wife, Francoise, "When I was a kid I used to think about which of my parents I'd let the Nazis take to the ovens if I could only save one of them.
Do you think that's normal?" His wife dryly replies, "Nobody's normal," Throughout Maus, Vladek's story is paralleled by Art's attempts to come to terms with the adamant, Scrooge-like, and self-involved father whose personality was formed in a world and through an experience so completely different from his own.
Sve u svemu, Maus nije los strip, ima dovoljno u svojoj prici da barem nakratko zaintirigira citaoca, ali gledajuci ocigledne primere dela koja su se bavila ovom tematikom i vec ispricali i izneli ovaj teskobni period u ljudskoj istoriji, sa mnogo vise srca i osecaja, uvek pod ogromnim pritiskom nagrada i priznanja koja je dobio, smatram da strip ne donosi nista toliko revolucionarno i novo u svet devete umetnosti, niti prozivodi katarzicni efekat kod nas da bi bio na tom mestu gde je danas a to je, neshvatljivo, sam vrh stripske umetnosti.
Smartly conceived and wonderful in it's ( I hesitate to use the word) execution.Art Spiegelman recounts the story of his father and mother's imprisonment and near death experiences in 1940's Poland and Germany.
Vladek (father) is frugal in the extreme and as we move through his concentration camp stories, we begin to understand why.
Mother Anja committed suicide (survivor's guilt?) and Vladek has remarried Mala.
Their relationship is a rocky one due to Vladek's idiosyncrasies but Vladek's desire to live with his son would be a clearly unworkable solution.Art Spiegelman won a Pulitzer for Maus in 1992, an award richly deserved.
