https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/469933.Hondo
The 1953 film starring John Wayne and Geraldine Page was actually based upon a short story by L’Amour entitled “The Gift of Cochise”.The narrative follows loner western icon Hondo Lane in his dealings with General Crook’s command, the local Apache tribes and a romantic contact with Mrs. Angie Lowe.
L’Amour also does a better than average job at portraying the Apaches as more than marauding savages and this objective empathy adds depth to his story.I tend to be a literary omnivore, enjoying writing in various and sundry genres and Hondo was described by none other than John Wayne as being the finest western he’d ever read.
L'Amour could set a western scene with the best of them, but sometimes that didn't translate to good reading.
Descriptions of the desert or prairie could go on too long.Despite its failings, Hondo is a classic tough-guy western that will probably be enjoyed by anyone still reading this review.
Side Note: My first guitar was made by Hondo, a guitar company named after the John Wayne movie based on this book.
The first novel written by Louis L'Amour.
What a story.
John Wayne called this the best Western ever written.
Maybe the statement is a bit over the top.
The descriptions of the Arizona desert verge on the poetic.
At its heart the book is the story of Hondo Lane, cavalary scout and dispatch rider and a woman and her son living in Apache territory.
There is no stereotyping of the Apache here.
Same is true of the white men.There is a reason L'Amour was and is still years after his death one of the best selling authors of all time.
Hondo Lane, Angie Lowe and her son Johnny, and the Apache chief Vittoro.Hondo Lane is an army scout and dispatch rider who loses his horse in an encounter with a couple of Apaches.
He makes his way to an isolated ranch where he encounters Angie Lowe and her son Johnny who were left alone when Angie's husband, Ed, disappeared.
Some of the most engaging parts of this story are the interactions between Hondo and Angie, Hondo and Johnny.
Some of the Apaches are good and some are bad.
This was the book club choice.
We were sick of war stories.
So the next person on the list chose this one.
It was an easy to read story, with some action and their was a bit of insta love.
I liked Hondo as a character he know a lot about the land and he was a hard worker and dedicated to job in the army and his friends.
The wild west was a tough place to live.The fun thing about being part of a book club you get to read all sorts of books you may never have picked up.
But this man had known loneliness and hardship."Hondo, carrying dispatches about a likely Apache uprising tries to convince Angie to leave her farm.
If they rise there won't be a live white in the territory."The Apache wars are the backdrop for Hondo and Angie's story and the book is filled with accurate details about the military campaigns....And fierce fighting that left few survivors.There are good and bad men on both sides, men of weakness and men of high courage.
Like Hondo, Vittoro is a man of honor, a man of his word who respects courage and sacrifice.I won't give away more of the story because it's a splendid one.
Library book...moves to the head of the line, top of the list...read it first (or, err, listen to it) and take it back!I had forgotten just how good (er, proficient) a writer Louis L'Amour was.
The description of what he sees and his emotions and his thoughts are done exceptionally and it struck me how beautifully it was actually written.This will be a familiar story to many as if you've seen the John Wayne movie this is one of those rare cases where the movie follows the book almost scene by scene and actually does a good job.
His first; not his best, but a good start.
Automatically gets a point for being set in my home state of Arizona.
It seems like L’Amour was truly writing from a place of hunger and passion at certain times in this novel--while his later stuff is never bad, it can be formulaic and kind of factory-built feeling.
This one’s about a cavalry scout named Hondo Lane who gets wrapped up with a woman and her son who’ve been abandoned by their husband/father in the middle of the long war between the Apaches and the US Government.
'...there were the desert and mountains and the love of strong things, man things.'This book was the mannest. Obvs, i could totally relate.Sometimes you just need a good, simple, romanticised western, and LL writes them beautifully.

It was an interesting situation because the writing was really quite beautiful but I spent a fair amount of time snickering at clichés.
We had fearsome Apache warriors, the love of a man for a woman, the need a woman has for a man, their eyes meet...
Basically there was a lot about the importance of family and a love of the land.
The funny thing is, I wouldn't be surprised if those things are clichés in westerns simply because they might be a staple of L'Amour's writing.The writing itself was beautiful and the story was pretty good.
My book is called Hondo by Louis L'Amour.
Hondo used this horse to do his traveling but unfortunately it had a brand on it of E.L, which stands for Ed Lowe which happens to be Angie's husband who abandoned them.
Hondo ends up making enemies with Ed and unfortunately ends up killing him.
After killing Ed Hondo gets captured by the Apache Indians.
He was rejoined with Angie but the Indian he spared returned for his head which forced Hondo to kill him.
Probably the best choice I could have made for my first foray into L'Amour.
Hondo Lane had the right balance of roughness and goodness, and Angie Lowe was believable from beginning to end.
The Apache leader Vittoro (who I assume is  Victorio) was a stately presence, and all the evil nasty-tude went to the warrior Silva who of course got his just desserts in the end.
With a little fatherless kid in the mix, who ended up under the wing of both Hondo and Vittoro, it did feel a little bit like the Shane storyline but better.
I wish he had recorded more L'Amours.
One of Mr.L'amour's earlier novels, it quite easy to see why his works are considered the epitome of western fiction. I truly enjoyed reading Hondo, which was rich in its descriptions of the southwest and particularly the Apache people groups. If you've never read any westerns, this would be a great one to start with.
This is a very good western novel. You have a woman at a frontier ranch, and Apaches closing in. Army troops are getting wiped out, the suspense builds. If you're thinking of reading a western novel and don't know where to start, this is a good one.
Beautiful western tale that had a little bit of everything and a nice romance plot around the center of it. It painted the picture perfectly and this was everything I wanted out of a western read.
Audiobook 3.5 Stars I don't know if the writing is kind of choppy, or the narrator chops it up. I thought the story was a little simplistic and predictable.But, overall, a good read.
I generally don't read Westerns, though not for any specific reason.
I listened to this on audio book to complete a Read Harder challenge category, and picked it because it was short and had high ratings.
I suspect it's a prime example of the genre, there's adventure and death, a little romance, lots of western scenery and interactions with "wild natives." The writing is sparse yet descriptive, and while certainly not politically correct by today's standards, I was able to suspend my disbelief and be completely drawn into another time where it all made sense.
All right, four stars it is. Classic L'Amour, everything you could want from a Western and then some. For the 1950s, a surprisingly multi-faceted take on the Apache/white conflict. The history of the work (first a short story, then a film, then a novel based on the film that actually released before the film) is fun to know. I'm not sure any of the book's additional scenes are strictly necessary; when I want to revisit the story, I'll probably just watch John Wayne. But I'm glad to have read it as well.
Otra joya más en la imprescindible colección "Frontera" de Valdemar. Excelente novela que conjuga perfectamente el héroe solitario, los apaches en su modo de vida y lucha, la tensión de la cabellería, el peligro constante en un paisaje en el que resulta básico no ser visto... Además, la brillante edición contiene el relato "El regalo de Cochise", que posteriormente se desarrolló (y cambió) para dar forma a "Hondo".
I like the descriptions of the desert for those who had to learn to live in it without air conditioning and modern conveniences.
Not a dead land, but a land where all life is born with a fire, a thorn, a sting.
Yet a strong land, a rich land for the man who knows it.
One cannot fight the desert and live.
One lives with it, or one dies.
One learns its way and its life, and moves with care, and never ceases to be wary, for the desert has traps and tricks for the careless.”This book has it all.
Excellent western, but we all know this. But still, this is my first L'Amour and I can see why he was one of the great western authors.
What makes the book so interesting to me is how L'Amour describes the work it takes to survive western life.
It's also the parts of the story that movies skip over.
If this is common in L'Amour's writing I imagine I will be reading quite a few more of his books going forward.
Note: A Goodreads friend has been tearing through the Louis L'Amour stockpile and I had never read one until now.
Having lately been on a John Wayne binge reading both fiction and nonfiction Hondo seemed to be the best place to start.
The John Wayne movie Hondo was based on a Louis L'Amour short story, The Gift of Cochise.
A screenwriter was hired to turn the ten page short story into a movie.
It shows the Apache Indians as being a good and moral people.
It shows that both the indians and the white man can be both good and bad.
Vittorio may have been at war with the pony soldiers (who broke a treaty) but he was good to Mrs Lowe and her son Johnny because he saw something in them that he liked which he honored.
Hondo was a good man in a hard situation.
It is a fictionalized account of the Victorio War that was a small part of the Apache Wars that took place between 1849 and 1924.The main character Hondo Lane (portrayed by John Wayne in the 1953 movie and Ralph Taeger in the short-lived 1967 television series for ABC) is a scout transporting dispatches to an Army fort in the Arizona territory.
He helps her with chores and saddle breaks a replacement horse before continuing on his mission to get the Army dispatches back to the fort.
Will Hondo return to Angie before she is forced to accept one of Vittoro's braves as her new husband?
I started off kind of liking this, but reading on I just got to hating it more and more.
I liked the tone, which is sparse and seemed to sort of match the terrain and setting of the story, but it gets sort of repetitive.
Beyond that, it was juvenile and sexist, featuring the fledgling love between a big, broad-shouldered man who knew the west, was dangerous but really kind and perfect in all the right ways and a woman, beautiful and alone on her ranch in the west who just needed a strong man in her life.
I quote (p.62):“What kind of man could leave a woman like that in Apache country? His eyes were suddenly wide open and he was angry, thinking about it. She was all woman, that one. And a person…a real person.”And this (p.130):“A man without a woman, without a home, and without a child was no man at all.”I'd heard that Louis L'Amour couldn't write a woman to save his life. After reading this, I wonder whether he knew any.
I read this book in memory of my Dad who absolutely loved Louis L'Amour. I enjoyed it but it took me a bit longer since it is not my preferred genre. However, I did appreciate the glimpse into frontier life, especially now that I am living out west. A good read and I will read other of his titles and look forward to visiting Durango, CO where L'Amour did a lot of his writing.
I can see why Louis L'Amour is one of this country's most widely read authors; he writes nice fat rolling lines that reach toward the poetic. His characterizations are well-drawn. His storytelling skills excellent. Good stuff.
