https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/415419.Dodsworth
”Oh...I suppose America terrifies me. I feel insecure there. I feel everybody watching me, and criticizing me unless I’m buzzing about Doing Something Important--uplifting the cinema or studying Einstein or winning bridge championships or breeding Schnauzers or something. And there’s no privacy, and I’m an extravagant woman when it comes to the luxury of privacy.” Edith Cortright Walter Huston plays Sam Dodsworth in the 1936 movie.Sam Dodsworth made a small fortune building up an automobile comp
Go to one of your beloved American bars, if you want to, and scrape up acquaintance with a lot of drunken businessmen--’They compromised on going to the Crillon.”They have to leave London in rather a hurry because Fran is involved in a scandal with a young man.
In his day he was wildly popular, his biting satire of American culture was lapped up by a generation in love with America, but looking to Europe for inspiration in their writing, their artistry, their vision.
The world, when you travel, seems too big to be worried about something so small.I will be reading more Sinclair Lewis and for sure I will bring him along the next time I’m in Naples.
But over and over his ability to just get it so astonishingly right has a way to cut through all manner of frills to simple, accurate, truthful human nakedness.Strange that I should be so much more a partisan of Fran in reading the novel than watching the film (I'd expect it in the film, that is, always being a partisan of Ruth Chatterton).
In the film, Sam's final choice seems both inevitable and right.

This 1929 novel ranks among Sinclair Lewis's "Big Five" books from the Twenties along with MAIN STREET, BABBITT, ARROWSMITH and ELMER GANTRY.
If MAIN STREET was a farewell to the mixed joys of Midwestern prairie life; BABBITT and ELMER GANTRY raucous Twenties satires; and ARROWSMITH a life story of a young doctor facing ethical complexities, DODSWORTH* asks the more existential question: if a man is defined by his achievement, then suddenly loses his career, what is left?
No one does American ambition like Lewis, which is why he probably ranks higher than most of the authors on whatever "Great American Novel" list you might read.
The difference between this novel and others by Lewis is that it picks up at the end of the Dodsworths' life in Zenith (the classic American Every-Town).
But what I would tell the reader who is new to Lewis or new to Dodsworth is that the power and enchantment of this novel is not so much the plot but the little cataclysmic details which are stories unto themselves.
If Sinclair Lewis wasn't the greatest author of the twentieth century, he was damn close. Like his earlier works, Dodsworth is a biting indictment of American society at the turn of the twentieth century, in this case epitomized by captain of industry Samuel Dodsworth and his social-climbing wife. Although lacking much of the punch of such earlier works as Babbit and Elmer Gantry, Dodsworth is a must-read for any fan of this now sadly-overlooked author.
I'd never read anything by this author, so thought I'd start here. The societal observation is so keen that at times I nearly forgot it wasn't set in current time (although the casual anti-Semitism was pretty tough). As a book, it was largely frustrating, and often tedious, dealing with a protagonist in a one-sided relationship, where everyone knows it's over, but him. Recommended for those who've enjoyed other Lewis works and/or those with a fascination for the interwar period.
Lewis applies his trademark mix of social satire and humanist empathy to Americans abroad with their ridiculous notions of Europe.
how many times i wonder did Sinclair lewis himself walk through grand central station pondering like sam dodsworth does in this novel?
dont you love it when great books are turned in to great movies like this one ?
other books that come to mind McTeague by frank norris made in to a movie (GREED) by eric von stroheim and willam penn warrens "all the kings men " made in to great movie by stephen zaillian .....sinclair lewis tackles the differences between artificial people like fran searching for culture in europe masterfully ,more than any other book I've read.
While one of Lewis' most well-known novels, Dodsworth isn't as ambitious or funny as some of his other classics, like Babbitt or Elmer Gantry.
Instead, it's a half break-up/ half tour of Europe novel, with only one area being successful (hint: it's the former.
Sam Dodsworth is the retired head of a successful auto company and he travels around Europe with his annoying wife, Fran.
While I hate Fran since Lewis made it impossible not to, I find it hard to actually condemn her actions.
I think I'm done with Sinclair Lewis now.
The book is very good.
Told from the standpoint of Sam Dodsworth, a 50ish car magnate who has just retired and his younger wife Fran (well, 10 years younger) wants to travel around Europe and live the good life.
Sam is game and goes along with Fran until Fran's attempts to be eternally young and romantically cherished as one of the beautiful people really cause a lot of soul-searching and agony.
I love Sam even more than the movie character, which can't quite flesh him out as much as a 400-page book.
I thought the plot was drab and the people bland -- but intentionally so. Sinclair Lewis is underappreciated now, but he was a genius at serving up the realities of his time.
she's the one who got Sam out of Zenith to begin with!Continued slow going due to work taking up too much time.
Notes...- Sam loves looking at art; Fran likes walking through museums.
I'm familiar with the problem - more incompatibility.- Plenty of both pro- and anti-American rumination from Lewis, who once famously said "I love my country but sometimes I don't like it very much."- So far this is a very white story.
Shocking!!!(except to Fran) That Sam IS a stiff!Finished last night after a bit of skimming over the last 50 pages or so.
I'm so glad Sam and Fran split. I vaguely remember the movie getting it wrong, but hey, Hollywood.
Fran is a bitchy, subtly denigrating shrew, obsessed with her idea of culture and style, and desperate to still appear young, vital, and popular.
Sam is not much better, a leaf on the tide, influenced by whomever he's speaking with at the time, a man who wants to be home when he's abroad and abroad when he's home, in when he's out and out when he's in.
I loved it; even though Fran's picking and Sam's dithering got repetitive, they seemed like real people with real feelings.
I will admit to liking the movie better, but perhaps only because I encountered it first.
In the last of what are generally considered Sinclair Lewis's "great novels" of the 1920s, Americans Sam and Fran Dodsworth travel abroad after Sam retires from the auto industry.
A loosely autobiographical effort by Lewis (who draws on his breakup with his first wife, Grace), this book also addresses the American view of Europe, and the European view of America, in the days immediately before the 1929 Crash that signaled the change from Saturday to Sunday in the "long week-end" of the inter-war years.
Fascinating, occasionally facile and simplistic, but written with the urgency which drove Lewis's best books, Dodsworth still deserves to be read, especially by Americans who may or may not understand their place in the world.Full review to follow.
(It's very good and faithful to the spirit of the book.)This was an extremely frank examination of a marriage for the times - we really get into the inner workings of Fran and Sam's relationship and how she manipulates him and how he has to figure out how to work her to get what he wants......it's very interesting without demonizing either one.
Since most of the book is from his point of view, it's a great achievement of Lewis's that Sam really has a balanced view of the situation by the end of the book.Most books I disklike have very little insight into character's thinking processes - this book is a great example for an aspiring writer of the right way to do it.

To me a book about identity and just who do we think we are and how do you define yourself.
The questions and the identity issues begin when Sam sells his company and decides to grant Fran's wish to travel in Europe.
This all happens in the time between wars and as America is mired in prohibition.
It turns out that perhaps Sam and Fran have never really known each other at all.
Lewis's descriptions of Europe, the people and the way they behave lends color, life, and a vested interest in exactly what will happen to the characters.
This is my favorite of Lewis’s books so far (haven’t read Babbitt yet). It is a marvelous character study, with a jolly good tour of Europe thrown into the mix. Dodsworth is an utterly likable, utterly relatable everyman character caught in a destructive relationship with a deeply selfish and immature woman. It’s ultimately a tragic story in many ways, but you can’t help but cheer with Dodsworth finally gives Fran what-for. Beautiful character arc and sad look at the destructive power humans wield over one another.
Some of the social commentary fits so well today I was surprised, many times. The descriptions get a bit boring for us "modern" folk who are used to quick images, quick reads, and have an idea of other countries from easier and affordable traveling, and the travel channel! It's easy to miss the satire in some of the descriptions. Lewis' people are nearly spot on, intentionally stereotyped. The book resonates even today.
Written in 1929, this Sinclair Lewis is a classic portrayl of American society, politics, and business. Lewis deftly describes the US love/hate relationship with Europe and all things "foreign". There are passages that could easily describe what is going on today in the US with our political and business culture. A great story, if not a page turner.
So much better than I thought it would be. Man that woman got on my last nerve.
A mediocre novel, but a mediocre novel of great value.
When you put it down, you will feel you've lost contact with some great characters, that you've really got inside a marriage, that you've seen life the way it can be.Samuel Dodsworth is an automobile magnate in the early years of the business.
As for Fran, you'll have to read the book.DODSWORTH is a psychological study of the first order, sincere, unpretentious and so well-written.
Samuel Dodsworth comes across as a solid man of conservative nature who may have once been in a rut, but learns to think far more than people ever give him credit for, particularly his wife.
My long-time real friend, and Goodreads friend Emily always has excellent taste in literature and when I saw five Goodreads stars from her for this book I was sold.
The book takes place in the late 1920’s, but the characters seem fresh and as relevant to today as they were at the time of the story.
I read so many books that tell a great story or have well developed characters, but unfold in such a pedestrian manner that the words are used simply to communicate the plot.
Dodsworth, which even right-wing journalist John Chamberlain praised as a rare sympathetic treatment of the businessman in American literature, does not make the titular protagonist the butt of the kind of satire we see in Babbitt, the more so as by the time we catch up to him he has retired.
Instead this story is about the man's post-retirement trip to Europe with his wife, and the divorce to which it contributes, and alas, I found neither especially interesting.
If there was anything really substantial to be said about the difference between America and Europe in this day (and I admit to thinking of this kind of thing as usually simplistic and overdrawn), well, Lewis didn't say it.
His wife Fran is a selfish, snobbish, social-climbing dilettante.
His wife is an asshole.
She falls in love and wants to marry a German count who's down on his luck due to the war.
She wants a divorce.Sam is bummed out and goes to Venice and meets Emily.
Sam wants to go back to the USA with her and start life anew.
Then Fran's life has fallen apart, and wants Sam back.
On the boat back to America, Sam realizes that Fran is an incorrigible asshole.
When he gets to America, he dumps Fran and heads back to Europe to be with Emily.
The late Robert Osborne of TCM always spoke so glowingly of the film version of this Sinclair Lewis novel. I enjoyed both film and novel immensely but I wonder if my view would be any different if I had encountered the book first, before seeing the film. I recommend both with no reservation. William Wyler's movie stars Walter Huston as the eponymous industrialist, with Ruth Chatterton as his judgmental wife.
America vs. Europe, wife vs husbandHope can an Ivy League man who forged great success in the automobile industry be so completely dominated by his relentlessly selfish wife? The reason is made painfully clear as the Dodsworth's embark on an extended stay in Europe. Dodsworth lays bare many psychological and cultural truths, while giving a glimpse of life in France, Germany and Italy between the world wars.
