https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/13239950-hills-like-white-elephants
A couple. A bar. A health condition of some sort. And a small research done by a reader to understand what was going on, exactly. Mere descriptions of actions and dialogue were not enough. But the reader doesn't blame the author for her lack of perception. A detached author that seems to barely know them. A foreign in their lands.Economy of the words. Emotions, all over the place. In silence. They have lost their names yet their presence is still felt. Something breaks."We can have the whole world.""No, we can't."Oct 21, 2015* Also on my blog.
Hills like White Elephants by Ernest Hemingway is a short story about abortion, feminism and relationship.
The American man, however, tries to convince Jig that undergoing abortion is just easy as pie which is completely insulting.
In the story it describes the hill (The baby inside the womb).
A white elephant is very rare and a beautiful gift to some culture but its cost perhaps surpasses its usefulness.
Suppose, you give someone a gift like White Elephant, it will become totally useless to the recipient.
She has received a gift (the baby on her womb) which is, at that time in her life, useless to her because it was unexpected.
One of Hemingway's best short stories.
با وجود این که خواننده هیچ گاه به صورت دقیق متوجه نمی شود آمریکایی و جگ درباره چه چیزی صحبت می کنند (یک عمل ساده)، ولی بسیاری از منتقدان متفق القول بر این باورند که منظور آن ها از عمل، سقط جنین جگ است.
خواننده به وضوح متوجه می شود که آمریکایی معتقد است این عمل باید انجام شود ولی جگ از آن سو، هنوز تردید دارد.
این صحبت جگ اهمیت زیادی دارد چرا که با کمک همین تشبیه هست که خواننده ممکن است متوجه شود جگ و آمریکایی درباره چه موضوعی صحبت می کنند.
"Hills Like White Elephants" showcases Hemingway's writing at its best: clipped, elusive, yet packed with clues that make you want to discover more.
Hemingway's characters say a lot without saying much at all, which makes some of his works bland and unbearable, but that style of dialogue works well in this short story.
But "Hills Like White Elephants" serves as a good study in how to write dialogue well, and it moves fast enough to keep your attention.
Overall, one of Hemingway's better short stories.
What an euphemism for ice berg in itself, after all this was a short, short story with way deeper meaning behind it.
It's always a girl with Hemingway, isn't it; his succor in his war against time, ultimately aging and maybe even against dying.
These two weren't sparse characters mouthing printed words on paper, no, no, no, no, they were real people talking to each other.Maybe I've been reading bunch of dreck pretenders lately, so this truly felt like real writing to me it flowed like water, wide open to myriad interpretations, and Hemingway even lets you make up few of your own, that was his stroke, his gift.
I'm quite unsure how to rate this little anecdote, because I'm pretty positive that it's a conversation about whether or not the girl (view spoiler)[will have an abortion (hide spoiler)].
I read a few summaries/analyses.
And I'm pretty satisfied with my skills of deduction, from this CliffNotes analysis: "In other words, it will take an exceptionally perceptive reader to realize immediately that the couple is arguing about the girl's (view spoiler)[having an abortion at a time when abortions were absolutely illegal, considered immoral, and usually dangerous (hide spoiler)]." Exceptionally perceptive, you say?
Hemingway's dumb ass short story about a woman about to get Lasik surgery.
The man informs her he cares enough about her to stay with her even if she doesn't want to do it, and would rather keep her glasses.
But with her glasses she's like someone else.
She doesn't look like the woman he fell in love with.
Since there's nothing in the story that proves it can't be about Lasik surgery, or that it's about something stupid like abortion, it's absolutely about Lasik surgery.
When you write a fucking Iceberg story with vagueness and allusions, you lazily create something that is meaningless.
I love Hemingway's approach to writing. I think it takes an excellent writer to use mainly dialogue to present each characters personality without using narrative. I also enjoy the symbolism throughout the story. One in particular (view spoiler)[ was when he looked at their suitcases and noticed the labels on them from the various hotels where they stayed. This to me represented freedom to roam and I soon came to the conclusion that he was talking about an abortion. (hide spoiler)] I enjoy Hemin
I love Hemingway's approach to writing.
I think it takes an excellent writer to use mainly dialogue to present each characters personality without using narrative.
I also enjoy the symbolism throughout the story.
One in particular (view spoiler)[ was when he looked at their suitcases and noticed the labels on them from the various hotels where they stayed.
This to me represented freedom to roam and I soon came to the conclusion that he was talking about an abortion.
(hide spoiler)] I enjoy Hemingway's Iceberg approach to writing because doesn't the story really belong to the reader and how we choose to interpret it?
I had to read this for Creative Writing class, and it just flew right over my head. I can see the potential behind the story, I get why people love it, but I guess I'm just too young to appreciate this stuff.
They live and shine, each in its place." Here is another typical Hemingway story built on dialogue.
A man and a woman, obviously lovers, most likely unmarried, in a railway station in a valley with white hills shaped like elephants somewhere in Spain.
They talk: the man mostly pleading, the woman at times in a silent rage, at times hinting of hurt.
Five short pages of shiny pebbles, each one deserving alert attention, for they grow, throb with thoughts and feelings, and expand the story ten times as the words contract and consume themselves.
داستانی انتزاعی بود که از روی دیالوگهاش هر چقد داستان که بخوایم میتونیم تصور کنیم. ملودی سازی دیالوگها حالتی چشمگیر و خلسه آور به داستان میدهد.دیالوگهای پایانی خیلی برام جذاب بود که به اوج یک نقطه بحرانی می رسد ( لطفا لطفا لطفا ....) و در نهایت با واژه های نهایی آرام میگیرد.
I'm always so impressed with Hemingway's way of writing. This is just another great short story that proves what a great writer he was.Awesome.
It's interesting that though the girl is completely dependent on the man, it's implied that she's realized that their relationship is a failure when he hasn't.
I loved the girl for realizing that making an abortion go away will not necessarily solve all their problems.
(hide spoiler)]I think Hemingway's exploration of this particularly toxic relationship agrees with today's time quite well."We could have everything and everyday we make it more impossible.""...once they take it away, you never get it back."
Sometimes in your life you will be all alone, there are people around you , saying that they care about you, but they really don't.When you've done something wrong, but it's not just your fault and there are people deciding for you to do what, like in this story which is an ended relationship, although you're not aware that it is.The time when you want to keep the relationship, but they just want you as an object.
تعلیق ذهنی که این داستان ایجاد میکند عالی ست! من را مجبور کرد سه بار بخوانمش!--------------------------- جمله ماندگار:مگر همهی کارمان غیر از این است - نگاه کردن چیزها و امتحان کردن مشروبهای تازه؟
تعلیق ذهنی که این داستان ایجاد می‌کند عالی ست! من را مجبور کرد سه بار بخوانمش!--------------------------- جمله ماندگار:مگر همه‌ی کارمان غیر از این است - نگاه کردن چیزها و امتحان کردن مشروب‌های تازه؟
It baffles my mind how a story written so simply could have such a deep impact and meaning behind it. By removing the unnecessary details from it, Hemingway gave it more depth.
Read for Expository Writing.I do believe it was my first experience reading Hemingway. It's a melancholy tale, but a nice lesson in the art of subtlety.
Hemingway ,for me, is like the old folks who are quite laconic and leave you with a statement and firmly believe that ,if you are smart enough , you'll crack it.
Hemingway believed that despite our full mastery over language structure, we don't really know how to communicate and convey our thoughts.
Another significant point about Hemingway is that once he told; I want my stories to be like icebergs, suggesting ten percent of it is clear and the other ninety percent demands our profound inspection.
In this story he pinpoints subjects such as morality,verbal communication, deeply symbolic language and challenges our mind,"only in two pages''.
Hills like white elephants is a really good short story.
The story takes place in a train station between two destinations.
A couple who are waiting for the train which comes in 40 minutes.
They drink beer and talk about an operation that the girl is going to have, the name of the operation is not mentioned.
At first it was a little bit confusing to understand the conversation between these two, but what I liked the most is the meaning behind the sentences.
That can happen in our life, too.
Aparentemente simple, aparentemente una superficial, superflua y aburrida conversación entre dos personas. Cuando entiendes el sentido de la conversación, del contexto, y de los diferenciados personajes, de todo el simbolismo, de la génesis de dicha conversación... explota la mente. No es de mis favoritos de Hemingway, pero siempre me quedo ojiplática cuando me descubren los sentidos profundos y ocultos de los cuentos cortos en los que yo, por A o por B, no he podido ver nada más que palabras y un "espera, aquí debe haber algo más... y tengo que saber qué es".
I could make a case that this is a perfectly written story. Hemmingway left it so full of symbolism, and paid so much attention to detail (he was notorious for that) that every sentence, every line, means something. Beautiful. Beautiful.
This is one of those stories you can’t really appreciate unless you’ve drowned yourself in all sorts of analyses and interpretations. After that, it’s quite a treasure.
Their location supports their dilemma; our main characters are stuck between to choices.
The girl wanting to keep her baby, is longing to be with the hills that remind her of white elephants.
The "white elephants" that the girl is visioning, could mean two things.
They are not going to be able to agree on this, but since throughout the entire story we have seen the girl's dependency on the man, one could infer that she is going to leave her "white elephants" behind and go through with the surgery like the man wanted.
Ты просто садишься перед пишущей машинкой и начинаешь истекать кровью».«Реже всего в жизни я встречал умных людей, которые были бы еще и счастливы».«Война, какая бы она ни была необходимая и справедливая, всегда преступление».«Никогда не отправляйтесь в путешествие с теми, кого не любите».«Большинство людей никогда не слышат друг друга».«Я пью, чтобы окружающие меня люди становились интереснее».«В прежние дни часто писали о том, как сладко и прекрасно умереть за родину.
И именно в местах надломов мы часто сильнее всего».«Секрет успеха прост: никогда не падайте духом.
Никогда не падайте духом.
Никогда не падайте духом на людях».
Hills like White Elephants is an excellent short story written by Earnest Hemmingway. Composed almost entirely of dialogue, it captures a conversation between an American man and the “girl” that he is traveling with. Due to the tone of the conversation and several hints given by Hemmingway, I concluded that this was the story of a man trying to convince his young lover to abort her unplanned pregnancy. The first indication that I saw of this was in Hemmingway’s choice of names for his character
Composed almost entirely of dialogue, it captures a conversation between an American man and the “girl” that he is traveling with.
Due to the tone of the conversation and several hints given by Hemmingway, I concluded that this was the story of a man trying to convince his young lover to abort her unplanned pregnancy.
In this piece of dialogue the man states that after she has the operation everything will go back to the way things were and they’ll be happy.
In this part of the conversation the man states that if she doesn’t want to have the operation he’s willing to “go through with it”, or in other words have the baby.
(view spoiler)[For reference, the operation that's discussed here is commonly assumed to be an abortion, which makes sense in light of the conversation between the two characters as well as the fact that it's something the man, the unnamed American, is pushing for and urging the unnamed woman to do though she seems hesitant.
(hide spoiler)]That being said, short fiction isn't my cup of tea and the vagueness of the conversation (while it might have been vague on purpose) clouds a definitive interpretation of the work.
Yes, it seems likely that (view spoiler)[abortion (hide spoiler)] is the subject of the "operation," but nothing, from what I can recall, blatantly indicates what it involves.
Ernest Hemmingway’s “Hills Like White Elephants” presented itself to me as a piece that needed to be read several times.
As I read the story the first time, I saw an emotional struggle between two people.
The second, I saw a deeper decision being made between the lives of these fictional characters.
I was finding myself explaining this small conversational story from different approaches: was it an entertaining piece?
By diluting the story in its brevity and ambiguity, Hemmingway left to the reader a living piece of literature that adapts and impacts in such a personal way.
Unlike any other story, Hills like White Elephants chose to follow a path of many choices.
She once mentioned how she would do it “because I don’t care about me.” In this part of the text she lets the audience know that she doesn’t exactly want to identify within herself but instead gratify the man since that’s all she really cares for in life.
Aside of that, the train tracks is what symbolizes the choices they both have to make about the operation.
This short story is filled with many symbols and choices to choose from in life.
Loved it.
