https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/7981206-dead-reckoning
God.I have never been so disappointed and consequently, angry, by a book as I am right now and it is actually hard for me to type.
My brain is exploding right now.
This is going to be a rant.
This is going to contain cusses.
This is also going to call out Tru Blood.
People are going to either like this or not.
First - Tru Blood has killed this series.
*cue outrage from fans of the HBO show* For the record, this is not about those that like the show.
I don't but it's not about the fans
Seems Sookie is content to live in her own world and complain "that Eric always makes decisions without her; like he's always done because let's face it, he's a fucking vampire and Sookie is a telepathic part Fae human and doesn't need to worry about half the stuff that goes on because she'll get it into her fool head to do something about it and then Oh, I don't know, DIE!She goes on to complain that "Eric never talks to me about anything really important." Sook, you're not a college graduate but you're not an idiot.
I am willing to bet that this book was as much of a torture for Charlaine Harris to write as it was for me to read.
Not only is Sookie's voice no longer recognizable (I just reread books 1-3, so I can in fact tell the difference), but this whole book is simply one huge FAIL.
The characters were altered.
Where was chemistry between Sookie and Eric?
Where were the human characters?
Why were Lily Bard and Jack in the book?
What was Hunter doing in this book?
In any case, I already know how this all will end.
If you don't, here:(view spoiler)[[image error]I love you, cher!
NOOOO, Sook-eh!
NOOOO, my lover!
The End
(B-) 69% | SatisfactoryNotes: Cozy and familiar, while at the same time sloppy, amateurish and blah. No direction, just seemingly random events.
Mmmm =) Anytime you want to tell me all of his dirty little secrets and every sexy thing about him that is okay with me.
I love hearing you talk and visiting Bon Temps with you.
And as much as I love hearing all those mundane details of your life, I really wish our time together could be used more wisely.
Don’t get me wrong, I love hearing you talk about brushing your hair and cleaning the kitchen.
Hopefully you and Eric will get more alone time and you can tell me everything.
AND GODDAMN I LOVE ME SOME PAM!Half of the reason I love these books is the Eric and Pam relationship; I find them endlessly entertaining.
I enjoyed the funny jabs at Sookie on Pam's behalf (One scene in-particular, involving a gift to Sookie...yeah, that was classic!).The other half of the reason I love these books is Eric's relationship with Sookie.
However, I think Eric is too good for Sookie.
I think it's obvious that there is no longer a love affair with our author and these characters.


I don't know why I have this feeling we will be disappointed with this installment. I just feel the series needs a closure and it doesn't seem like it. I want more Eric but I don't think I'll get all the Eric I need to get to love this series again. It feels like this book is just gonna be another chapter in the series and not as whole book. I'm not sure if I made myself clear,lol.
If it wasn't for the fact that there MIGHT be a HUGE plot inconsistency in this book (the convo between Sook, Claude & Dermot about Niall & Eric being in cahoots), I would give it 4 stars but I'm trying to figure out if something might actually be a well placed lie by CH or not but I'm not so sure yet.(**Edited on May 14th.
She has some very big thinking to do about what she wants for herself & what she is willing to accept about her life & the people she surrounds herself with.I don't have many doubts that Eric/Sookie are going wind up together.
Bill plays a larger role in Dead Reckoning than he has in a while, and I found myself genuinely liking him (not just feeling sorry for him) for the first time in quite a few books.Eric is obviously in a starring role, and as much as I was rooting for a relationship between the two of them, you begin to see some problems here.
Sookie also takes a very drastic measure to test her real feels for Eric in this book...
To say it with a quote from the book:"I've tried to kill you over and over, and you just won't die!"I almost felt like apologizing.That's the Sookie Stackhouse series in a nutshell! ;-PI still love it though! XD
It simply has no purpose of existence.If I could just point out all my problems with this book I’d end up wasting all day writing about it so I’ll just mention the things I think are somewhat relevant.
Nah. The series is dead.Anyways, here comes my complaining.Was it just me or did the plot go on vacation to a sunny beach and left the book hanging around our poor shelves as useless as a pile of dirt?
What about the people who actually liked the series and were expecting some good books and good stories to be out?
This was another strangely addictive instalment in the series, although things aren’t looking good on certain fronts (view spoiler)[ Sookie and Eric’s relationship!! Oh dear! (hide spoiler)]I thought Sookie was a bit naughty to (view spoiler)[ dissolve her blood bond without telling Eric first, but Eric should have been honest about this whole arranged marriage thing that he’s involved in. (hide spoiler)] But yay for the deaths of (view spoiler)[ Victor and Sandra!! (hide spoiler)]7 out of 10["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>
WTH...WTF...Seriously!!!...Speechless...seriously pissed off! No words, other than the few above, can truly describe how disappointed I am with this book and this series. When I re-discovered my love for reading several years ago, this was one of the first series' that I read and I fell in love with. It will continue to hold a special place in my heart but what I fell in love with is just no more. NEVER, in a million years, did I think I would say I'm looking forward to Season 4 of True Blood m
How sad is that?Bubba - loved that he was brought back in this installment, however, I feel his re-introduction fell a little flat.Pam - we got to see a softer side to Pam with her love interest and I enjoyed that.Sookie - finally stands up for herself in some respects and that was much needed for her.
Eric - Eric will forever be on my top ten list of favorite characters, BUT, the past couple of books have made him out to be such a p**sy :/ Thank god for the scene at Fangtasia at the end of the book or I would have sworn he was be-spelled again.
Can't wait!!!
I'm a bit sad that Jason wasn't in the story much, he had a big role in the end of the previous book.
It really struck me as odd that he didn't have a least a bigger role in this book then he actually did.
I find myself left with a lot of answered questions from the previous book, but a hell of a lot more now.
Now all I have to do it wait for the next book to get those answered.
All in all a ABSOLUTELY WONDERFULLY AWESOME book!!
He is making life more and more miserable for Eric, and he's an ever-present threat to Sookie.And he's not the only one.
Sookie has to figure out who is targeting her, while helping Eric come up with a plan to get out from under Victor.Emotions are running high.
There's a schism between Eric and Pam, and Sookie knows she has something to do with it.
I just didn't feel like the book was as cohesive as some of the ones that came before it.
from disaster to disaster, in Sookie's life.
Unfortunately, I spent much of this story feeling like this:Fear not, I also have nice things to say, I just wish they outweighed the bad.First, the bad:*It should have been condensed.
It felt like so much of this book was filler and made it excruciatingly boring to read until almost the end.
Psh, we saw that like book 1.
You yourself even point out in the climax that of all the bloody, horrific things you are seeing, only one is new to you.
Sure, vampires can love, they have feelings, but they still are not HUMAN.
And then there’s roughly a combined one hundred pages or so of filler about Sookie cleaning her house, being a good hostess, waitressing, agonizing over morals, hosting baby showers, baking cheesy sticks, and apparently being in love with Sam all of a sudden.
(hide spoiler)] I’m probably wrong, but I look forward to reading the future reviews (which are likely to be much more entertaining that the future novels) to find out.Perfect Musical PairingRascal Flatts – These DaysI just want to take a minute to say thank you for generic leather ebook cases, and car windows that close.
Rating: 3.8* of fiveThe Publisher Says: There's a reckoning on the way ...Sookie Stackhouse is a cocktail waitress in Bon Temps, Louisiana.
And good luck to Eric in his new, unexpected, and possibly Sookie-less life, as arranged by his now-dead maker, very different from the one he has in True Blood.Anyhoo, throw in Claude the hot gay faery/stripper, Dermot the damaged faery uncle, Mr. Cataliades the demon (literally not pejoratively) lawyer, Amelia the renegade witch and her former pussycat Bob, and a return visit from nutball Sandra Pelt, and the corpses stack up to agreeable heights in the accustomed way of Harris's books.
You know the expression "Jumping the Shark" for a television show that has been on too long and gotten horrible? Well, this book series has definitely been to Sea World on a motorcycle.  I hope he had this book in his hand...And, although I can be quite a masochist when it comes to finishing a series that I've started, I'm officially done. take that, people who told Charlaine Harris to keep writing when she was obviously out of ideas!Sookie has actually managed to become even more unlikable in t
You know the expression "Jumping the Shark" for a television show that has been on too long and gotten horrible?
take that, people who told Charlaine Harris to keep writing when she was obviously out of ideas!Sookie has actually managed to become even more unlikable in this book.
Okay, I've been stupid in the past.
Uh, no Sookie, you have been consistently stupid.Plus, she is vain, selfish, and delusional.
If you want to do something that you know that your spouse would absolutely be against, just do it behind their back.
because you are a boring f*ck and Eric is a viking god...The only people I will miss in the series:
3.5  It's very tempting to give  Dead Reckoning  3stars because I feel it inferior in some ways to past Sookie Stackhouse novels but It isn't fair to grade a book just because I am holding a grudge to events that hasn't even happened in the book yet. So for years of adoration and sheer insanity it stays with 4 stars on first glance ;)WARNING!The following may contain spoilers. Let me just get this quote out of my mind for it's been bugging me ever since I started reading DR....I suffered with
3stars because I feel it inferior in some ways to past Sookie Stackhouse novels but It isn't fair to grade a book just because I am holding a grudge to events that hasn't even happened in the book yet.
I admit I was satisfied and can classify this as a mystery worthy of Sookie Stackhouse but the perpetrator is an old character and is solved halfway thru the book.The second is the threat of Victor.
Sookie started second guessing her self and her relationship with Eric isn't going forward.They're married and they share a bond that lets them feel each others emotion but they still don't know each other well.
The Southern Vampire Mysteries are not great books.
Though I have to mention that I don’t have much knowledge about Louisiana or the life of south and I don’t know if it’s an accurate portrayal but it’s entertaining.(view spoiler)[There’s nothing much that happened in this one.No ‘oh em gee!What will happen now?’ kind of mystery.They kill Victor.They kill Sandra.The blood bond is broken very easily and that shows that Charlaine Harris is not good at planning her books.She brings a twist in a book,regrets it and then has to think of a lame way to get rid of it.Alcide shows up for one scene,Bill is there sometimes.I felt,there were a lot of plot holes.I still haven't figured out who sent Hod and the other guy to kidnap Sookie.It felt contrived,something done to get Bill in the middle of things.Eric is being weaved out of the story gradually.Sookie will end up with Sam IMO.
I really enjoyed the series up until this point and I really feel like this was simply a contractual obligation.
Hell, from the first few pages I noticed that Sookie's voice was changed and it was not in a good way.What happened?
Eric feeling bad about something that could put him up on the vampire chain of command?
NOW, i will never know what happens to Sookie because I probably won't read the next book.
For shame.I'm going to go back and read the first book and pretend like none of this happened.
At one point Sookie is being chased through the woods by an unknown number of assailants—she reaches Bill’s house but because she doesn’t want the assailants to know which direction she went, she takes the time to take off her shoes and clothes, hide them behind bushes, and then wring out her hair so that they won’t be able to follow her drip marks.
Bill’s house is the obvious place to run but take off your clothes so they can’t really be certain that you’re there–and then neglect to lock the door.
Well I was anxiously awaiting the release of this book, hoping it would redeem the series for me after the last one.
Yes, it was better than the last one but it still left me dissatisfied.
I'm not sure if it's me who has lost interest in the series or the author (but if you ask me her heart just isn't in it anymore).
At least it was better than the last one but was it good enough to keep me invested in any future books?
I really don't think so, I may have to lay the Sookie Stackhouse series to rest.
Nope, not convinced, I felt that was a contrivance to create a situation, for no good reason that I could see other than to satisfy a particular fan base.
She complains that Eric is scary and violent, yet dear lovely Bill kills three humans in defence of Sookie (one of them a relation) in the first book and this is never brought up against him.
I thought I liked Sookie Stackhouse, but the selfishness she is starting to exhibit grates somewhat at the end of Dead Reckoning.
May contain a few light spoilers*******I wasn't very pleased with the amount or the quality of Sookie and Eric time.
This is where I would mention the ordeal with Alcide, but I'm not going to because I've recently decided that it's too absurb to acknowledge.Then there were other problems I had that I suppose would be considered more trivial.For example, Eric's new daytime man - a person who should, at the very least, be trustworthy.
That situation just struck me as odd and uncharacteristic.Then there was Terry being a "spy" against Sookie for Eric and Niall.
In Dead Reckoning I felt as if Harris had gone through the FAQ section of a Sookie fan page and decided to answer a bunch of arbitrary questions, like "can Sam breed in dog form" and "what happened with Amelia and Bob." And man, oh, man the secondary characters are crammed into this book in force.
The book would have been sensational if it was Sookie and the Leeds's trying to fend off Sandra while Eric and the vamps dealt with Victor.Guess I'll be waiting another year to see if she can bring it back around.
Sometimes I just want to shake Sookie and to tell her to WAKE UP and cut all ties from the loons.And other times I want to just toss her to a non-friendly non-sexy vampire and let them eat her and get it over with.Still, I found this particular book better.
This book isn't the only one where this all happens, but it just got on my nerves this time around.The other thing that bothers me is a giant spoiler, so read on with caution.
(hide spoiler)]I guess, all in all, this book was better than the last one...
The first few were entertaining, but as the series goes on, instead of her writing getting better it seems as though it has gotten worse (or maybe I'm just getting more critical).
I realize she's probably planning on addressing that issue in her next novel, but it wasn't written as a cliffhanger, it just wasn't resolved.
Another thing I've noticed as the series has progressed is the lack of an overall plan for the series.
One of the things I love most about authors like Jim Butcher is that it's obvious he has an overall plan for the series.
I don't mean to be overly critical of the book, it's a fast, easy, somewhat entertaining read.
