https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1961207.Coonardoo
The critic writing the textbook really didn't like her work, describing it as ruined by her "crude Marxism" (in later years she actually supported the Soviet Union's repression of artists and writers, so I could see how her crude Stalinism might sully her work), but he conceded that Coonardoo was a classic.It was first published as a serial in The Bulletin in 1928, and was extremely controversial because (by the standards of the day) it humanised Aboriginal people, rather than conforming to the prevailing idea that they were pests to be more or less exterminated.
This made me uncomfortable throughout the book.Despite being the titular character, Coonardoo isn't really the main character of the book; that would be Hugh Watt, the white man who owns this cattle station, Wytaliba.
According to the introductory essay by Drusilla Modjeska, KSP was sojourning in the Kimberley in 1926 to finish her novel Haxby's Circus when she came into contact with Aboriginal Australia in the North-West and what would become an important source for her writing.It is a remarkably brave and honest novel not just for its time but still proves confronting and heartbreaking reading even today.
The highly detailed and utterly convincing naturalism of the writing about life and work on a cattle station makes a persuasive context for KSP's revelations about relations between the white settlers and the indigenous population in the Kimberley largely unknown to most Australians.
I'm a little obsessed with novels about white/Aboriginal interactions, so this didn't disappoint. Some of the writing is shockingly graphic for 1929, and the descriptions are crisp and tactile. The plot is a little meandering and changes pace dramatically for no apparent reason, but the characters are solid.
And my reasoning is, despite the book's very relevant misgivings, I must take into consideration the impact of this book and the time it was written.
I imagine that, while definitely not today, it was progressive during the 1930s; it presented Aboriginals as individuals and not a collective, and spoke much about some of the complexities of Indigenous culture.
Overall, read Coonardoo with a grain of salt; while it definitely has substantial flaws, I think it's an important piece of Australian literature that depicts the white psyche and attitude towards Aboriginal people during that time.
Of course, if published in present day Australia, this book would cause public outrage for its animalistic representation of Indigenous Australians. However, considering its time of publication, this book speaks leaps and bounds ahead of its time. The nature of the story is obviously not light-hearted, and it definitely maintains some consistent undertones throughout the novel of a kind of "downward spiral" which Hugh eventually endeavours upon.On the note of language and description, Prichard is an artist! Her description of Australian landscapes, people, and culture resonates even in present time, and it's truly just beautiful to read. Overall, a 5/5.
Historical fiction is interesting but when it is also written in history (1929) it is challenging to engage with.
This is to be expected considering when it was written but it does indicate the beginnings of some thoughts of atonement over the invasion by the English in the minds of some fair thinking whites.
This is not a book that will leave you feeling contented and satisfied but depending on your racial stance you may feel challenged.
As an aside it is thought provoking to consider this world of vast distances and the absence of any communications beyond sporadic letters and husbands away a drovin for months.
200 pages covering 50 years in which nothing happens. had to read this for class and even the teacher did not finish it.
I was forced to read this for my Australian Lit subject at uni. It was surprisingly addictive. Beautiful. Tragic.
Couldn't finish this terrible book, don't know why they put it on a curriculum. Makes the students want to shoot themselves!!
საინტერესო რომანია, კარგად არის დახატული განსხვავებულ ცივილიზაციათა დაპირისპირება(აბორიგენები და თეთრკანიანები) სიყვარულის თემაც ძალიან კარგია, თხრობა პოეტური და კარგია.
Racist.
The other reviews on here speak to the complexity of this work.
Written by an avowed socialist, and one of the first Australian novels to treat our Indigenous people as human individuals, not to mention a stunningly sexual and honest work for its time, and a work that continues a strong trend of complex female characters in Aussie literature, Coonardoo is - to my mind - still an important part of Australia's literary history.
Anyway, that's all been said elsewhere in some lovely reviews by Goodreads folk.
Coonardoo was a trailblazer for its time, and that's probably what remains important about it.
I felt unsatisfied once I finished with no resolution with the ending. I also found it hypocritical that a white woman was commenting on how a black woman would have been feeling
And I don’t merely mean from the point of view of “indigenous studies”.The deep insights Katherine Susannah Prichard presented in her serialized novel in The Bulletin back in 1929, cover much that is in current debates and policy shifts of recent years.
It is only through such a brave confrontation of the true story that there can be any hope for any of us.Now that aboriginal people have the right to vote – granted through Referendum in 1968 – and there have been heritage trials over sovereignty in land rights, there is still debate over the ability of a white writer to portray life from an indigenous point of view.
I found it very hard to put this book down, and read it in only a few days.Coonardoo is a love story between a station owner, Hugh, or Youi as his people know and call him, and Coonardoo.
Katharine poses the fantastic concept of love between Aborigines and White people at a time when it was never considered a possibility.
Katharine in her writing shows deep respect for the indigenous people of the time, the role that they played on the stations, the traditions they had and what they had to put up with.
I have read a lot of Pritchard many moons ago but never this one. It depicts the north of Western Australia in a way that shows its menace as well as its rugged beauty. This story of the relationship between a white property owner and the Aboriginal woman who was his childhood friend was considered scandalous in the 1920s, not because it wasn't common for men in the outback to use Aboriginal women sexually, but because it depicted a depth of feeling between the two. Tragically for both, the prevailing mores prevented any development of the relationship.
I really enjoyed reading Coonardoo. It has some beautiful imagery of the Australian landscape. The book definitely has some issues, specifically, the derogatory terms used towards Indigenous Australians. Although it includes a lot of aspects of Indigenous culture, I wouldn't say it is a very reliable account. It may have been controversial at the time, but it is still very obviously written from a white woman's perspective, with Indigenous culture having a submissive role. Nevertheless, it was still an intriguing read.
This is a book that in all probability is a white woman's view of the time in which she lived. It is honest and progressive but I did find it difficult to analyse the truth in what the author portrays as a forbidden love between Coonardoo and Hugh. She comes across as subservient and he as a mama's boy who uses this black woman over whom he could wield an influence as opposed to women of his own race. Of course, the context would be better appreciated in 1929 when the book was written. Still, an interesting read.
**sigh** Really, it just could not end any other way...A love across race was not looked kindly at the time. A white man in love with a gin (Aboriginal)? God Forbid! No wonder that this book was not published until a later date. What a controversy it would have been. Prichard was definitely ahead of her time.It was sad to read the different struggles and devotion on both sides. However, am always happy with the Aussie outback nature descriptions. There are none better!! And since it's nearly Australia Day 2012: Aussie! Aussie! Aussie! Oy! Oy! Oy!
Interesting, thought it was based on a true story until I read the last page, that Coonardoo's death was symbolic of the meaning of Wytaliba - the fire is all burnt out. I don't believe that this story is indicative of the relationships between white men and black women in outback Australia.
Wonderful Australian classic but such a sad story about a forbidden love between a white man and an Aboriginal girl.
Loved the book! "Looking up at the stars she found herself pinned to the earth by swarming currents..." is such a beautiful way to of speaking.
I liked Coonardoo a lot more than I expected to. It is quite sad but written very nicely.
A highly curious novel relating to race and gender in early colonised Australia. The suppression of Hugh, arguably the protagonist despite the title, is particularly interesting.
http://www.weekendnotes.com.au/coonar...
A story of the darker side to Australian history from the perspective of a young aboriginal woman.
This book was banned in the 1920s because of the depiction of the relationship between an aboriginal woman and English-Australian pastoralist.
Best love story that I've ever read.
