https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/9284655-tiger-s-curse
Or should I say "highly fucking convenient"?I started feeling uncomfortable as soon as Kelsey arrived at the circus and the Italian owner speaks like this: 
And if you don't think it's an issue, then I strongly encourage you to read books about cultural imperialism or Edward Said's fantastic book about Western attitudes towards Middle Eastern, Asian and North African societies - Orientalism.Kelsey is an idiotic white american and yet somehow, though the population of India is more than 3x that of the United States, she is the chosen one to break this Hindu curse.
I’m also sure the author didn’t intend it that way because I don’t think she gave a single fucking thought to how her representation of this culture would look.
Umm, Obviously I've read it since I wrote it. Have most of the lines memorized now.
**slaps forehead in total frustration**)But I think that out of all the things that bothered me about Kelsey, the VERY WORST was the fact that she made such a snap judgement about Ren-- without even giving him the chance to prove that he was a good guy-- and then proceeded to treat him like total crap for the rest of the book, all for absolutely NO REASON other than her own stinking insecurity that "she wasn't good enough for him." Kelsey Hayes, you were to put it bluntly, one of THE most immature characters I have ever read about, and you need to go find yourself a therapist.
So when I read about this book, about an Indian prince cursed to be a tiger, I couldn't wait to dive into some really fresh, interesting writing.
She befriends a white tiger at the circus, and when a rich Indian man buys the tiger, she is asked to accompany Dhiren, the tiger, to his new home in a sanctuary in India.
And this is not a little green man from another galaxy, this is a reclusive Indian monk who, I am guessing, doesn't know much English, although if he learnt words like 'embark' and 'traverse' and 'respite', I don't see why he couldn't have learnt some grammar to go with them.
That’s… awfully convenient.In fact, in the Tiger’s Curse drinking game I have planned, there’s a rule where you take a shot every single time something terribly convenient happens in the plot.* Kelsey’s foster parents are awfully okay with her going to India simply because they’re liberal health food hippies and not subject to social workers who would like to keep tabs on Kelsey?
Call me crazy, [If you've made it this far into my review, I'm sure your already questioning my sanity], but when your a dedicated reader, you love the feel of the book in your hands, the texture and smell of the pages.
So when I picked up this book to take a peek at the content, I was more than impressed with how solid it felt in my hand.Content, getting to the story line ...Colleen Houck did a fantastic job, thinking through the world she created for this series.
I promise you, this will be a book you read multiple times!The characters ....Wow, where do I begin?
I don’t ask for much realism in my books with cursed tiger princes but when I’m rolling my eyes on page 4 (when Kelsey literally walks into a job centre and is given a job helping to look after a tiger in a travelling circus despite a total lack of qualifications), that’s not good.Supporting characters make no impact beyond their broad offensive stereotypes (the Italian circus owner speaks like the pizza chef from “The Simpsons” while most of the Indian characters speak in the broken English style reserved for racist jokes – shockingly, people in India can speak English, many of them very well.
Edit: 9/27/2014 Retroactively reducing my ratings for these books because when I first read them I did not notice the racism/cultural appropriation.Okay, I just cannot be bothered to write a long review for this book.
I can barely be bothered to write a review at all.
That being said, the writing is really so abysmal that if it hadn't picked up a bit at the end, this would have been a one-star read for that reason alone.
I cannot fucking believe that I'm still going to read the sequel, but it was a gift.
Obviously written by a nine year old.Unfortunately, Tiger's Curse reads like it could fit all three of those descriptors, too.
In terms of characterization, description, plot development, pacing, and my God, dialogue, Twilight looks like Shakespeare in comparison to Tiger's Curse.I mean, where to start with this book?
(This is how I know my issue with this book is the writing, and not the story: good writers are supposed to make you forget you're reading.) Our main character Kelsey is emblematic of everything that is wrong with this book.
I TRIED, GUYS. I TRIED. BUT I JUST CANNOT FINISH THIS... THIS THING.Just look at my status updates to see why I abhor... ABHOR... this book.Exhibit A:Exhibit B:Exhibit C:Exhibit D:Exhibit E:I am DONE!. I wouldn't wish this book even upon my worst enemy.
THIS BOOK IS SO BAD IT ACTUALLY MADE ME HATE TIGERS.
"There were mounted pumps full of shampoo, conditioner, and soap"Here we got two well-characterized male leads, Dhiren and Kishan and we, the readers had to read the story based on the most annoying female lead I ever came across in my whole reading life!If you think Lucinda Price was annoying, I think this Kelsey was gazillion-fold more annoying.Like Luce was annoying because she was dumb as soup but Kelsey was just plain annoying, you wouldn't even feel guilty feeding her to one of those bloodsucking monkeys, Kappa.Here, lemme tell you why:1.
Like, Ren had to do all the dirty job by himself.2.
Give me a minute to mentally write a last will and testament.Ren: It'll be fine.Kelsey: Sure it will.
WARNING: This book has the ability to make you succumb to constant daydreams and irregular bouts of hopeless romanticism while reading. So word of advice? grab that pillow and head for your room, cause someone might think you've lost it when they see you squealing around like an idiot. haha!oh my....is it so wrong to think that Alagan Dhiren would probably look like this?  or maybe this?  While I, on the other hand is looking like this...Initial reaction. then... lol! Im swept all over!! :)okey,
WARNING: This book has the ability to make you succumb to constant daydreams and irregular bouts of hopeless romanticism while reading.
haha!oh my....is it so wrong to think that Alagan Dhiren would probably look like this?
The whole story unfolds when Kelsey, the seventeen eighteen year old heroine of this story decides to take a two-week part-time job on a circus.
Heck, turns out the Tiger is actually a prince from thousands of years ago doomed to take the tiger's form and Kelsey is said to be the one to help the prince break the curse.
Sigh and Im dying to read the next book woohoo!!
Enough said.• The immense plot holes despite paragraphs of tedious information• The fact that the parameters of Ren’s curse were very poorly explained and extremely inconsistent throughout the book despite what we “know” • The book being privy to inappropriately timed info dumps about historical background or character backstory—most of the historical information sounding like something copied almost word for word from Wikipedia, or some other generic website• The whole novel was what I like to call “gimmicky,” meaning that most of what was done was probably done to sell books—e.g. Ren’s brother coming into the story to complete the “love triangle” (I don’t want to talk about it), Kelsey not knowing “who she wanted to be with” because both brothers are so “dreamy” (as if she doesn’t have the option to end up with neither), and the multiple parts of the curse that need to be broken, which just screams, “Four more books!” Sorry, I don’t think so, Houck.
They share a connection, they know they love each other, but it’s not solid, hence the nerve wrecking, speechless ending.
When it’s right in front of you, begging you to acquiesce, loving you utterly, you become lost in the fantastical lure and beauty of it, and you can’t see anything else.
If it’s just a fabrication of your mind, deluding yourself into thinking that he could truly want you because he deeply loves you.
And there will be no more doubts, just love.Well, I didn’t expect to go so deep, but this story, the ending, Kelsey’s choice, it just affected me, and I so desperately wanted her to stay with him, to let him love her.
Usually I trust her opinion because, like, she reads a ton of YA stuff, but she's a grown ass adult and she's been a high school librarian for about 40 years, so she KNOWS YA.
So...?)- The tiger - obvs - turns out to be a handsome Indian prince who was born in like 1650 and when he was 21, he was cursed and so now he's a tiger all the time, except that for 24 minutes a day, he's allowed to be human.
- Okay, let's deal with the fact that Kelsey - a white, white bread American teenage girl - is, according to this book, the chosen one of an Indian goddess.
Oh boo hoo, it's not fair that a freaking hot Indian prince says he would rather die than live without you but you're too much of a pussy to stay with him.After at least a week of her being a frigid bitch to Ren in between kissing him passionately when he coaxes her into doing so, she has the audacity to say that she'll just have to tell him "the truth" because she's the kind of person who faces things head on and gets past them.
This book just pissed me off.TWO LITTLE WORDS: Love triangle
Ο Ντίρεν βρίσκεται σε ένα τσίρκο, ενώ ο Κίσαν είναι ελεύθερος στην ζούγκλα.Η Κέλσι θα βρεθεί στο τσίρκο, όπου τυχαία έπιασε δουλειά, και θα αρχίσει να έρχεται πιο κοντά με το άγριο ζώο.
Ζωντάνεψε μύθους της Ινδίας!Υπέροχο……θα ήταν, αν κάποιος χτυπούσε την Κέλσι.Ειλικρινά δεν μπορώ να μετρήσω τις φορές που με ξενέρωσε και με έκανε να βρίσω από τη μέση κι έπειτα.
Σιχαίνομαι τις ηρωίδες που είναι τόσο ηττοπαθείς σε ό,τι έχει να κάνει με την εμφάνιση και τα ερωτικά τους!
Στην αρχή μου είχε δώσει άλλη εντύπωση, μετά χάλασε εντελώς.Τέλος πάντων, θα αδιαφορήσω για την Κέλσι και θα δώσω βάση στους πρίγκιπές μου!!!
If I could give the book zero star, I would have.When I first read book's description on the backcover of Colleen Houck's Tiger's Curse, the first book of an adventure fantasy series which roofed itself both in the modern day India and the Hindu mythological world of curses, demons and deities; I was intrigued and wanted nothing more than to read the book.
He does nothing but being The Bad Boy who flirts with the main girl, what a waste!The first part of the book does little to build up Kelsey's character and her relationship with Ren--neither as a tiger nor a young man.
A completely idiot foreign girl with no connection to India whatsoever is so much better right?Then comes Ren, our 300-year old prince, burdened by an Indian curse which has turned him and his brother Kishan into tigers and only allows them 24 min a day of their human forms.
I am a Muslim, never been to a Mundir or temple and yet even I know after 17 years of living in India, how to worship a goddess.
And yet after living for about 300-years, Ren doesn't know how you worship a goddess.
Η συγκλονιστική κατάρα του τίγρη που σε μαγεύει και σε ταξιδεύει σε ονειρεμένους κόσμους.
Μια παραμυθένια ιστορία αγάπης γεμάτη δράση αγωνία τρυφερότητα ρομαντισμό και μαγευτικές εξελίξεις.
Βασιλιάδες παλάτια ναοί θεές πρίγκιπες μυστικά αιώνων δυσεπιλυτοι γρίφοι ινδική κουλτούρα αρχαίος πολιτισμός κατάρες προδοσίες και παρα πολλή αγάπη ειναι τα στοιχεία του βιβλίου που το κάνουν απίστευτο συναρπαστικό τρυφερό και αξιόλογο σε σημείο να κατέχει επάξια μια θέση στην καρδιά του αναγνώστη.
Απολαυστικό και τρυφερό ελαφρύ και αγνό σαν παιδικό τραγούδι σαν παλιό παραμύθι γραμμένο με έντονα συναισθήματα χρώματα αρώματα ήχους και γεύσεις της μακρινής Ινδιας εκεί όπου ένας αθάνατος πρίγκιπας αμφισβητεί το πεπρωμένο και αναμετράται με μια αρχαία κατάρα σε ένα μοιραίο παιχνίδι αγάπης !!
2.5 ( minor rant alert: proceed with caution...... )Nah.I really wanted to love this. I mean, with a beautiful cover like that, I had high hopes. How can you not fall prey to those encahnting blue eyes?! And it has good ratings so I gave it a shot.It half delivered. I found the idea quite intriguing. But it was the idea alone that kept me going. The other half fell so flat it's flatter than a sheet of printer paper.First of all, the pacing, especially in the beginning, just did nothing for me. I
It was very cut-and-dry and a little too straightforward for my taste.And I like neither Kelsey nor Ren. I don't hate them by any stretch of the word, but I can't bring myself to root for them.Kelsey is so immature and such a simpleton that half the time, I was thoroughly annoyed by being in her head.Allow me to present you with an example:When she first arrived in Mumbai, India on page 69:
Culturally ignorant much!?!Now in general, this wouldn't be the hugest deal, but why would someone like Kelsey, who knows diddly squat about India, be the key to breaking an ancient Indian curse?
Something that happens all the time in YA novels:WHHHY Kelsey! Even after (view spoiler)[ Ren tells you that he loves you! Awww! (hide spoiler)]Other than that, I loved the book.["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>
It's a good thing I remember what annoyed me in this book and will write this review yet again.
Go to a country you've never been to, with people you just met, as a tiger handler - which you've been doing for days without any training hat so ever, yeah, sure.
The foreign guy who speaks with broken English - lacks the basic grammar knowledge (but of course) but manages somehow to know words like 'hasten' or 'bestow'.
As an ESL I am very annoyed reading such 'broken' English.
Some of it was beautiful and the Indian mythology was interesting, but there was dialogue and events that could have been scrapped.
There were things mentioned that I thought must have only been in there because it was going to come up later, and then never did.
I also had a very hard time believing that this girl's foster family was going to let a kid who has just barely turned 18 go wandering off to a foreign land with someone they met once, on the premise of taking care of a tiger!
I'm sure there are many people who will enjoy this type of writing, but it just wasn't for me, and I probably won't be reading the next in the series.

Review first posted HEREThis was written of GR and on the back of my copy: Tiger’s Curse is the exciting first volume in an epic fantasy-romance that will leave you breathless and yearning for more.  Yes, this statement is correct (well for me anyway) it was very mushy and romantic, it was exciting and I finished it desperate for the next volume. I read this book while on holiday in Bali and yes that really enhanced my reading experience and made it more enjoyable because of the Hindu/Asian sett
Like I mentioned before the romance was a bit too much on the mushy side for my liking but I am genuinely curious as to where things are going to continue to especially after that ending...Who I'd recommend this for:I'd say this book is for those who like cultural fantasies with quick action, suspense and descriptive mythology but don't mind mushy romance and love triangles.
There are very few books that leave me feeling the way this did!
But I can put those little annoyances aside for the WAY I FEEL when reading this series!
It's a nice, sweet story of falling in love, quests and adventure.
But there is a lot more to the story and the characters and the emotional conflicts they have going on.
I love the emotional/conflict/angst aspect of this.
I really like how Kelsey doesn't just fall head-over-heals for Ren. She questions her feelings and doubts the truth of his.
I really enjoy how Kelsey and Ren butt heads sometimes!
Δανείζεται στοιχεία της ανατολίτικης πίστης, θρησκείας και κουλτούρας, δημιουργώντας ένα ενδιαφέρον μείγμα, το οποία με εύστοχο, έξυπνο και δημιουργικό τρόπο το παντρεύει με μια κατάρα αιώνων, που μέσα στο παράλογό της φαντάζει απόλυτα ρεαλιστική και λογική, αφού η φαντασία υποστηρίζεται από δεδομένα που έχουν λιγότερα ή περισσότερα ψήγματα αλήθειας, τόσο όσο χρειάζεται για να μας κάνει να πιστέψουμε και τόσο όσο χρειάζεται για να διατηρεί την φανταστική μαγεία και το πέπλο μυστηρίου που το περιβάλλει.Πέρα όμως του μυστηρίου που περιστρέφεται γύρω από την κατάρα και τις προεκτάσεις της, της δράσης που έρχεται τις σωστές στιγμές στις σωστές δόσεις, των γρίφων που προσπαθούμε με μανία να λύσουμε μαζί τους πρωταγωνιστές, το μυθιστόρημα αυτό είναι μια αισθηματική ιστορία αλλά, και μια ανθρωποκεντρική ιστορία.
