https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/24484918-henri-duchemin-and-his-shadows
So I slipped out, promising to myself to return, and maybe I will, and I opened this as a respite.
The worst, annoying, in this way: Now I am writing to you.
You can see that I am writing because you are reading what I write.
I was reading something, wasn't I?
I mean, I'm always reading something.
As if they can control such a thing.----- ----- ----- ----- -----I'm bursting to ask you this, though.
But in just one story here a character burst out laughing, only a few pages later to burst into sobs.
Isn't there any other way to laugh or cry than to burst into it?
‘Night Crime’ features a woeful soul whose whisperings lead to murder, a fattened wallet, and the inevitable moral decay; ‘Another Friend’ a woeful soul who meets a rich ‘friend to the poor’ who proves to be no friend at all; ‘Night Visit’ a woeful soul whose girlfriend in a moment of thoughtless cruelty ends their relationship; ‘What I Saw’ a woeful soul convinced his wife was kissing another man in a taxi; ‘The Story of a Madman’ a woeful soul who chooses to sever contact with everyone close to him to make them suffer; ‘The Child’s Return’ a woeful soul who is unable to return to his parental home after a long absence; ‘Is it a Lie?’ a woeful soul who wonders where his wife was last night.
A pattern is clear: woeful souls whose relationships are teetering on the brink of severance, or fail to even occur.
Really, I bought this book on impulse, on the strength of its cover, the ostensible link with Robert Walser (he’s namechecked in the blurb) and the introduction by Goodreads friend/acquaintance Donald Breckenridge.
Some – “Night Crime”, “What I Saw”, “Is it a Lie” – ride a fine, haunting line between subjective and objective that lifts them somewhere near the realm of Walser; others – “Night Visit” – I found slightly banal.
But then, Mr Breckenridge, like Bove, may well be a professional.
I have never read Emmanuel Bove, and now, I feel like I have a good new friend.
On the other hand, do I need him as a friend?
The short stories all deal with a main character who feels misplaced or not connecting on a human level with others or their settings.
In many ways, they are totally self-destructive figures who seem to enjoy their fall from grace to embrace emotional failure.
Bove captures these moments that are totally believable, yet they are basically insane people.
Right now, I feel we are going through an age of intense anxiety.
Too slight and thin. It was as though after a certain point Bove cared little for his child moving on to his next progeny where the same sad occurrence prepared itself to happen again.
A collection of lovely, sad, strange short stories. I particularly liked the one where a man destroys everything in his life just to prove he can do it.
As the Introduction states, Bove is a nice point at which Kawabata might have met Poe. Certainly "Night Crime", the story that actually features the titular Duchemin, comes pretty close. The rest not so much. Kawabata actually wrote beautifully if deceptively simply, whereas Bove is just sort of...there. Poe was fucking weird and gloomy whereas Bove sort of slouches towards that. The stories aren't bad, but they're puzzling in their mediocrity, especially considering Bove's other, more engaging works.
Sad little stories
Gracias a Vila-Matas por haberme descubierto a este maravilloso escritor.
Naturally, most of the disillusion occurs in relationships between men and women.Night Crime is set on Christmas Eve with the title character, Henri Duchemin, mired in a life of poverty turning desperately to a stranger for sympathy, but he’s told that if he’s that unhappy, he should just kill himself.He closed his window and, motionless in front of the only armchair, he saw women everywhere, in the depths of the walls, standing on his bed, languidly waving their arms.
The story Henri Duchemin and His Shadows gives a glimpse of café culture, reminiscent of Rhys, and a hard, acid-tongued woman who tells the title character to stop whining and just kill himself.
“What I saw” is a letter written by Jean to an unnamed friend; Jean desperately wants his friend’s opinion about something that he saw involving his girlfriend that disturbed him greatly.
Jean, like the other characters in the story, has a tenuous grasp on an important relationship in his life and he is eager and even desperate not to lose it.Another story worth mentioning is “The Story of a Madman.” Fernand, the narrator, makes it a point at the beginning of his tale to address the reader and inform him or her that he is not, in fact, crazy or out of his mind.
My first time reading Bove - his stories have a wonderful subconscious flow and his descriptions are often remarkable.
The collection starts off very strongly, but it trends downhill because the stories are a bit too similar - it would probably be better to read one a day.
Though they are all accomplished, the stories of lonely men who suspect their wives, wander through dreams, suffer in poverty, and directly address the reader with lengthy preambles start to blend together.
This isn't the fault of Bove or the wonderful translation, but it makes it a bit tougher to recommend the book to non-fans.
Reading Bove is like watching the bastard child of Victor Hugo and Franz Kafka (obvious physiological impracticalities notwithstanding) sipping strychnine from a fine china cup while playing chess in a deserted park. Make of that what you will.
As with Mes Amis, the reader feels that the objective of Emmanuel Bove in "Henri Beauchemin et ses ombres" is to provide the back story to the famous Beatle Song "Eleanor Rigby" with its celebrated refrain: All the lonely peopleWhere do they all come from?All the lonely peopleWhere do they all belong?The characters are poor economically, intellectually and spiritually. Emannual Bove is unquestionably a writer of talent but his recipe quickly becomes tiresome. His characters and their dilemmas are all too similar. The denouements are highly predictable.
I had read these Bove-stories in French and was intrigued. Two years ago I was asked to translate "Ce que j'ai vu" into German. (Now available as "Was ich gesehen habe" im Golden Luft Verlag, Mainz.) I then bought the English edition (Henri Duchemin and His Shadows) in order to look at the translation into English. The translation deeply impressed me. I can only recommend this book to all those who cannot read Bove in the Original.
Strange, sparingly detailed stories. At times wonderful, at times unnerving, at times as well strikingly accurate in their depiction of despair, fear, and loneliness. The novella /Night Crime/ and the stories "The Child's Return"and "Is It a Lie?" are noteworthy, though all of the works are interesting enough to be memorable.
Fail and depress
This particular book, a collection of short stories, is a great introduction to the author's work.I suspect that, had I encountered these stories thirty-five years ago, Bove would have joined Lawrence Durrell and Jerzy Kozinsky in my cosmic pantheon of angst: Bove's characters are obsessive and self-absorbed in ways that every human being who has survived his/her early twenties can understand.
Now, almost two generations later, I find that I can appreciate Bove's elegant, sometimes almost crystalline writing (think Shirley Jackson) while viewing his moody protagonists with a certain paternal amusement, but find that these young men resonate with my memories more than with who I am to today."Henrie Duchemin and His Shadows" is a short, book, a quick read, and well worth a weekend's effort.
while one (pick any) story in this collection is nice, the rest is just variation of the story which makes whole collection boring. I don't think that Bove planned his stories to be so similar but even if he did the effect is just not interesting. Collecting these stories in one place makes Bove's repetitiveness more pronounced. Because it will take only one afternoon to read, pick up Henri Duchemin .. or His Shadows from the library and enjoy reading one.
I enjoyed Is it a lie, the final story in this collection but wasn't blown away by the other stories. I have no real criticism of the style or content, it's simply that something didn't gel for me.
He is my therapeutic, sagacious, mythical older brother. I've always looked up to him and have in fact, wanted to be him. He is my idea of purity and all that is good and worth fighting for.
The stories aren't really plot or character driven, but as the back copy says, Bove has a great eye and ear for detail and these stories are worth reading for that alone
