https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/509306.Nikolai_Gogol

«Vera poesia di quel tipo provoca non risa, non lacrime, ma un sorriso radioso di perfetta soddisfazione, e fusa di beatitudine; e uno scrittore può essere davvero orgoglioso di sé se riesce a far sì che i suoi lettori o, più esattamente, alcuni suoi lettori sorridano e facciano le fusa a quel modo.»Vale per Gogol', ma vale anche per Nabokov: il suo Nikolaj Gogol' è decisamente un saggio che dà soddisfazione.
Nabokov non si limita a parlare della pošlost' nelle opere di Gogol', la denuncia anche nei romanzi e in tanta parte della critica letteraria, scrivendo quasi il proprio manifesto critico.
Gogol was a strange creature, but genius is always strange; it is only your healthy second-rater who seems to the grateful reader to be a wise old friend, nicely developing the reader's own notions of life. This quotation nicely characterizes Nikolai Gogol, which is in roughly equal measures about Gogol, Gogol's artistic genius (separated and separable from his person), and Nabokov himself. It is not a biography; at least not in the traditional sense. That Nabokov doesn't mention Gogol's date o
Gogol was a strange creature, but genius is always strange; it is only your healthy second-rater who seems to the grateful reader to be a wise old friend, nicely developing the reader's own notions of life.
That Nabokov doesn't mention Gogol's date of birth until the very last paragraph is symptomatic: details of biography and chronology are deemed irrelevant - what is of sole significance is Gogol's art.
I am not going to discuss what Nabokov considers Gogol's art - his conjuring - because that is the point of Nikolai Gogol.
I would recommend having read at least Gogol's three previously mentioned main works before putting yourself in Nabokov's hands, as Nabokov assumes great familiarity with them.
In questo saggio illumina le tre opere maggiori di Gogol', Il cappotto, Il revisore e Le anime morte e allo stesso tempo scrive un bellissimo saggio sull'essenziale nella letteratura e sul guardarsi bene dalla retorica pervasiva.
Se adesso voi scrivete Gogol' Roma su Google (che peraltro Berlusconi una volta ha pronunciato Gogol) vi compare la casa in cui egli abitò a più riprese, nel suo periodo migliore, dal 1838 al 1842, prima di precipitare in una sorta di lungo delirio durato dieci anni nel quale per cercare ispirazione scriveva lettere scombinate agli amici e al mondo intero, indicando loro i libri da leggere per educarli e far sì che potessero dare spunti a lui stesso per continuare a scrivere; la verità è che Gogol' aveva perso il suo grandioso estro e la sua immaginazione era mutata da antiretorica ad invasata retorica confessionale.
E non è poshlust quello che sto scrivendo qui, ora?

Страхотна книга на Набоков за Гогол.
Като изключим, че по традиция когато Набоков говори за други автори, той е страшно надут и понякога ти се иска да му удариш един чимбер...Книгата е написана нетрадиционно и е нещо между биография и критически преглед върху живота и творчеството на Гогол.
Набоков разглежда най-вече зрелите му произведения.Обърнато е сериозно внимание и на дразнещите митове, които са свързани с името на Гогол.
Както Набоков отбелязва - Гогол всичко на всичко има около 20-на часа прекарани в руската провинция (в зряла възраст), без да броим времето, в което се е возил в каляска.
Con la sua prosa perfetta, direi quasi sontuosa, Nabokov rilegge Gogol e lo libera dai tanti luoghi 
Nabokov wrote this book with the assumption that the reader has already read at least Gogol's major works.
(And what Nabokov dismisses as Gogol's minor works and not worth discussing are considered by some to be his most important writings.) This book is also not very useful to someone who has read a good deal of Gogol and no Nabokov.
However, to someone who has read both authors, this is a fascinating text, maybe a necessary text.Someone unfamiliar with the stories will find it bewildering that Nabokov refers to fictional characters in the midst of the biography and sometimes find it dull that Nabokov spends chapters explicating sections of the stories sentence by sentence.
If you love Nabokov and love Gogol', you will love this book. If you love Nabokov and don't like Gogol', you will like this book. If you hate Nabokov but love Gogol', don't read this book.
Nell'affermare che la grande letteratura corre sempre lungo il filo dell'irrazionale, Nabokov compone un testo polivalente e diretto, senza vie di fuga, senza tentennamenti, imperscrutabile come un abisso, profondo quanto un deserto notturno."A una tale suprema altezza dell'arte la letteratura non ha, ovviamente, niente a che vedere con la pietà per i derelitti o con la condanna dei potenti.
Nabokov was a genius. Nabokov was supremely confident in his own genius. However, this is the first time that his arrogance bothered me. In this "biography" (I really hesitate to use that word) of Gogol, Nabokov spends as much time praising his own translations (and deriding others'), inserting obscure (or at least unnecessary) literary references, explicating his understanding of "poshlust," and creating some beautifully worded, but Meaningless!, sentences. I know little more about Gogol or his works than I did before reading this.
Some of the favorites:The old translations of 'Dead Souls' into English are absolutely worthless and should be expelled from all public and university libraries.Because Gogol was in the worst plight that a writer can be in: he had lost the gift of imagining facts and believed that facts may exist by themselves.
Kapnist embrace the solemn urchin and said to the glad parents: 'He will become a writer of genius if only destiny gives him a good Christian for teacher and guide.' But the other thing--his having been born on the 1st of April--is true.
Balls-out, imaginative and totally biased litcrit from the master. I love this kind of thing and I wish more people shed the disinterested facade and brought us as far into the mind and heart of the artist's work as they dare to go.
The inimitable Nabokov waxes lyrical and satirical about the inimitable Gogol. I read this previously about 40 (!) years ago, and enjoyed it just as much this time through. A short and delicious read.
This is an idiosyncratic, short biography of Nikolai Gogol.
The rest of Gogol's oeuvre is dismissed.
There are many parts such as this one which left me mystified.Nabokov admires Gogol's genius and he thrashes translators and critics with gusto.
He explains why Gogol's oeuvre has nothing to do with social critique.
And while instructing us on how to read Gogol, he teaches us how to read Nabokov as well.
I think this is the strongest point of this book.Nabokov explains Gogol's life in a very personal way.
However, it suggests a way of reading Gogol (and Nabokov) which is really illuminating.
Gogol seems to hold a special place in Nabokov’s personal pantheon and in his fiction, though like most aspects of Gogol’s life and work, this place can be difficult to define rationally.The monograph begins with Gogol’s death and ends with his birth, but no linear chronology connects those two points.
First of all, he wants to delineate the singular queerness of Gogol’s character by analyzing his biography (using mainly Vikenty Veresaev’s 1933 Гоголь в Жизни [Gogol in Life]) and fictional style (using the Russian originals of Gogol’s works and Nabokov’s own translations of them).
I wouldn’t recommend picking this up unless you are already familiar with Gogol’s work - especially Dead Souls, The Overcoat and The Government Inspector.
Nabokov assumes not only a familiarity, but a critical understanding of Gogol’s work.
For example, the Russian poshlust: “the fat brute of a word… the first ‘o’ is as big as the plop of an elephant falling into a muddy pond and as round as the bosom of a bathing beauty on a German picture postcard… Russians were acutely aware of the furtive and clammy touch of poshlust”I would’ve got a lot more out of this book had I read more of Gogol’s long pieces.
I had only read Gogol's The Overcoat before dipping into this book, but I think I've surfaced with an understanding of the writer which many of the more 'relevant' biographies wouldn't have provided.
"When a person tells me that Gogol is a 'humorist' I know at once that person does not understand much in literature.""But neither the person who wants a good laugh, nor the person who craves for books 'that make one think' will understand what The Overcoat is really about.
"Nabokov wrote this book during the time when Leninist Marxist criticism was flourishing in the Soviet Union.
I have never read a book by one beloved author giving his thoughts on another beloved author before.
I love Gogol and Nabokov, so it was a bit surreal.
For most of the first half of the book, Nabokov seems jaded, angry, and looking for a soap box.
Nabokov expresses the frustration of translation over and over again.
Gogol’s genius is tied to his use of Russian, and English leaves Nabokov less than a full toolkit.
Nabokov expresses why he thinks Gogol is a genius.
I was fascinated by the struggles of Gogol to follow up on his masterpiece, Dead Souls.
Loving Gogol helps.
I'm not sure what the fun would be without having read at least two of the three discussed works.
It's the perfect length, and does a good job explaining (or at least exposing) Gogol's magic (though I'm not sure any modern reader who had never heard of Gogol would fall for the "realism" or "satire" angle without being prepped on it beforehand, and let's be honest, no one is anymore) without trying too hard to grip it.
One of the best biographies I have ever read. It's worth reading how he tries to explain the meaning of the Russian word 'POSH'LOST' which is not easy, as it falls between 'cheesy and banal'. He does with with swimming germans and swans - find out how!
Chicca imperdibile sia per amanti di Nabokov che per amanti di Gogol, utile soprattutto a non farsi abbinfolare dai "facili" esperti di Gogol (casualmente ne ho sentito uno questa mattina...)
There's curious metaphysics at work here, one that reminds one of Tarot cards of Aleister Crowley
Self-indulgently Nabokovian to the core.
Nabokov, Gogol'un eserlerini en değersiz fragmanına kadar okumuş, mektuplarından yaptığı alıntılardan, bir iki fragmandan cümle içerisinde bahsederken anlıyoruz, ama en önemli üç eseri Müfettiş, Ölü Canlar ve Palto'ya değiniyor.
Bence Nabokov, Gogol'a saygı ve sevgisinden bu eseri yazmış.
Çevirmen, Gogol'dan yapılan alıntıları Nabokov'un kendi İngilizceye çevirisinde amaçladığı şekilde çevirmiş.
Ölü Canlar'ı Ahmet Ekeş'di sanırım öyle bir çevirmenden okumuştum.
Ölü Canlar'ı bu yüzden elimden yıllar önce çıkarmıştım.Müfettiş'i de sanırım Erol Güney çevirisi ile okumuştum.
Zaten Rus Edebiyatını okuduğum yıllarda elim Ergin Altay, Nihal Yalaza Taluy, Leyla Soykut, Hasan Ali Ediz ve daha bir iki çevirmene, Fransızca'dan çevirilere mahkumdu.
How does a great writer read/appreciate another great writer?
Nabokov makes all facile would be appreciators of the mind and work of deeply strange Nikolai Gogol blush and stammer apologetically.
We get a sense of how Gogol's artistry was at odds with his wish to provide an edifying message to the masses but in his greatest works his genius won out.
It was only toward his end when he was struggling to add to Dead Souls with parts 2 & 3 that the moralizing Gogol seemed ascendant over the artist.
"...(from one of Gogol's letters to a young lady--hence the archness)" (3)."The Neva flooding the to
Nabokov on GogolAn odd mixture of biography and literary criticism. Nabokov praises Gogol while trashing most translators and critics.He sees Gogol's unique genius as having nothing to do with social critique and everything to do with seeing the depth of the human soul.
If you like Gogol and Nabokov this is a fun read. Definitely improved my opinion of Gogol even more.
My rating would be higher if I have read Dead Souls, The Overcoat and The Inspector General before. I might do it because of this book. Strong 4 stars.
