https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/683078.Shadow_and_Act
He also gives a very thorough account of Richard Wright and his work, who had mentored him and James Baldwin personally, when he came to New York.
Incidentally this book caused me to stop reading Native Son in favor of Black Boy, which I will get to some day.
It also chronicled a very good debate between him and Irving Howe, among many other things.This book (and more importantly this author) is what I have to thank for shaping me up to be a serious reader and examiner of not just literature but culture and art overall.
Organized in 3 sections by theme ("The Seer and the Seen," "Sound and the Mainstream," and "The Shadow and the Act"), Ellison is consistent in his opinions about art, life, and the complex identity of the "Negro American." The most interesting essays for me include "The Way It Is," "Hidden Name and Complex Fate," "The World and the Jug," and "Twentieth-Century Fiction and the Black Mask of Humanity." In 1958, Ellison wrote: “I would like to see a qualified Negro as President of the United States.
One of the greatest books I have ever read. Ellison's critical prowess amounts to that of Ezra Pound and T.S. Eliot. UPDATE: Eliot is in the air. Turns out the title is an allusion to "The Hollow Men". I read this poem long before reading the book but only recognized the the unmistakable link today with a second reading. "Between the motion And the act Falls the Shadow" -- T.S. Eliot.
I liked the concepts and love Ellison as a writer, but the essays here were just way too repetitive.
Generally regarded as two of the first three African American writers to produce world-class novels (the third being James Baldwin), Richard Wright and Ralph Ellison would spend their lives being mentioned together and publicly compared.
Invisible Man was, above all, an expression of that belief.Here, then, is the irony: Wright lived a life that was dramatically different from any one might have anticipated based on the circumstances of his childhood.
Meanwhile, the course of Ellison's life was very much in line with his experience of the world as a child, even down to his middle name, Waldo, which was given to him by his father in the hope that Ralph would grow up to be a writer.It seems as though this irony was never fully appreciated by either man.
An AMAZING collection of essays that articulates Ellison's dilemma for a negotiations of a sort of jazz-writing which: dances between his places as an Afro-American writer, with all the inherent social-political connotation towards which the burden of representation is placed ; also as a modernist (by way of Eliot), who creates a detached aesthetic from which an universal work can be created. I find these essays to be the perfect example of the tension between the political/poetic that is often faced by many writers of color.
Excellent book;A collection of articles he wrote for magazines about various racial and political issues —adds to”Living with Music “;
This collection of Ellison essays is perfect for anyone wanting to take a closer peak to the inner workings of the genius' mind, the one responsible for Invisible Man. His ability to combine his incisive intellect with poetic imagery, masterful comprehension of American history with political exigency is breathtaking.
His (very long) review/critique of the landmark sociological text An American Dilemma by Swede economist Gunnar Myrdal is quite possibly the best read on race and racism in this collection.
While he takes as his subject matter specific texts and artists he is more concerned with the grand narrative and mythology of race in America as expressed through these "illusions" or texts.
Recurring concerns and themes include the relationship of protest and art, particularly regarding his position on Richard Wright's writing and his very own novel Invisible Man; the place of jazz and blues in American and African American customs and culture; the union of American and African American culture (despite many critics and essayists attempt to declare their full autonomy); and the use of his own autobiography to argue for the plurality of Negro experience in America.
the middle section, about music, and primarily jazz, is wonderful, and absolutely worth reading. and ellison is unquestionably a top-notch wordsmith, and a deep thinker. but more than half of the chapters feel like the same ideas recycled over and over, and while they're certainly important -- as statements about race and america, and for when they were written -- after the first few it becomes a bit tiresome.
Fairly evenly split between literature and music, Ralph Ellison's knockout collection of essays had me re-evaluating my views on Faulkner and Twain while also providing introductions to Jimmy Rushing, and the Lafargue Clinic. Though originally published in 1953, his clearheaded examinations of black identity is as elucidating as ever and his adamant eschewal of oversimplification, a reminder of how often we shrink from the rich complexity of things.
An insight into the mind of the author of Invisible Man. Ellison is, as always, fascinating. Recommended for anyone who would like to learn more about the man himself, and his opinions about fiction, music and life.
2002 was perhaps the year that I did most of my Ellison reading. "Shadow and Act" -- a collection of Ellison's essays on race, jazz, social relevance, and writing -- gave me the insight to one of the greatest essayist next to Virginia Woolf and Mark Twain.
Excellent. Just excellent. I am both highly critical and extremely grateful of this collection of essays. I'm so glad I read this. Just excellent.
Ellison was a great thinker and by that will continue to be a literary role model.
Stimulating collection of essays from the mind who brought us  Invisible Man.
The wisdom of Ralph Ellison. 'Nuff said.
Ralph answered many questions that I had about American writers and literature during the turn of the Century after the Civil War. His prose and role as an historian are much appreciated.
