https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/416530.The_Restaurant_of_Many_Orders
This is an enjoyable little story. I don't know if you're supposed to laugh but i did. I guess it was also supposed to be inspirational or that's what i gathered from reading about it. But that seems to have been lost in translation as it's not the vibe i got while reading it. Highly recommend it to everyone.
Miyazawa Kenji, a Japanese poet, writer, devout buddhist, and humanitarian left us with a collection of poems and short stories when he died prematurely at a young age.
The Restaurant of Many Orders is a children's story with an universally important message.
Fortunately, they are saved when their faithful dogs, alive again, come crashing into the kitchen to frighten off the animals.The title of this book and one of the signs inside the restaurant reads, "Resturant of many orders", which is a play on words.
Because this book is primarily intended for children I recommend it for Miyazawa admirers or readers who love children's stories.
In the classic bent of a Twilight Zone episode, two hunters get lost in a wood, and stumble upon a mysterious restaurant. It's a fun story, and much shorter than I would have imagined. Miyazaki led me here, so expect some whimsy with a dash of horror.
Este libro contiene cinco cuentos muy lindos, todos relacionados con el respeto a la naturaleza y con un toque de misticismo oriental. El que da título al libro es divertido, pero el último me hizo llorar porque GATO. D':
short, interesting, strange, enigmatic
5/27 67minmenhunterforestfindrestaurantenterstrangeI choose this book because I have never read this book.
I wanted to read.How many times do you go to eat out for a month?In my case, I go to eat out at 5 times for a month.Do you read books(not comic books)everyday?In my case,I don't read books.
I have never read difficult books.
But this story is cats try to eat people.
They are very cute.If you go to restaurant, what do you often eat?In my case,I often eat chiken and rice and salad and Tofu.
Miyazawa Kenji's imaginative universe, his way of seeing and describing this world, is unique and compelling. His stories often dont make much sense and rarely progess to any important action or point. Nonetheless, his descriptions are a joy to read.The Restaurant of Many Orders is particularly exciting and deliciously ironic.
A humourous short story mainly for children in which Miyazawa utilised his imagination which was ahead of his time where the message is perhaps not to be so trusting and to exercise caution as what appears to be the case may be anything but.
怖がり屋なので、私にとって、この話はちょっと・・・ T_T
Inspired by Hayao Miyazaki, I started to read classic novels for children.Kenji Miyazawa must influence Miyazaki. Fantastic, beautiful and imaginative world. I love it so much.
witty funny
Not what I thought it would be. Fables.
