https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/30005.Red_Harvest
I’ll give you three good reasons—from least to most—why you should read Red Harvest: 1) it made possible the fine Leone film A Fistful of Dollars, 2) it inspired the Kurosawa masterpiece Iojimbo which influenced A Fistful of Dollars, and 3) it is an old school hard boiled, hardcore novel, with a detective as tough as Spade, Marlowe and Hammer put together, written in hard-as-nails prose, and set in a small West Coast city, a city with a heart of stone.The City is Personville, and people call it “Poisonville,” but not because they are speaking with an accent.
It's what this place has done to me." The Continental Op knows the truth of Nietzsche’s words from his own first-hand experience.“Of all that is written, I love only what a person has written with his own blood.”Dashiell Hammett spent some years with the Pinkerton agency as a detective.
He had his first-hand Poisonville-like experience in Butte, Montana where he probably had occasion to see his own blood flow in the line of service.
As it is, this is about as good as it gets when it comes to noir and Hammett has created another superb work that reads as well now as it did back in 1929.
Here are a couple of classic quotes that I thought were just full of awesome:"Be still while I get up or I'll make an opening in your head for brains to leak in." "If I don't get away soon I'll be going blood simple like the natives," says the Op.
If you ever get in legal trouble, there is always a very competent and affordable lawyer available:He's the guy that the joke was wrote about: "Is he a criminal lawyer?" "Yes, very." Of all classic hard-boiled novels, this one has a record of having maximum number of dead bodies per page.
A nameless narrator from Continental detective agency is invited to a city for corruption investigation by the city tycoon's son.
He admits that this way of cleaning the city is much easier and probably more effective than the legal one.
After getting a look at its seedy underbelly the Op browbeats the dead publisher’s wealthy father into paying him to clean up the town even though he’s a big part of the problem.The Op starts working angles, playing criminals and crooked cops and every corrupt person he runs across against each other.
If I don’t get away soon I’ll be going blood simple like the natives.” Hammett was obviously doing something over the top here with a town where murder is seen as the first and best solution to almost every problem.
If the left-leaning Hammett had an argument to make, he chose not to make it, leaving us with only the violence and ugliness, and a tepid underpinning.Red Harvest is certainly bloody enough for a hardboiled detective novel — the Op takes a body count while talking with Dinah Brand before an ice pick finds her, and it’s staggering — and there are flashes of good writing — really good writing — but the convoluted plot isn’t offset by an entertaining enough narrative to rank this one as high as Hammett’s better stuff.I truly believe if this had been handed in outline form to Raymond Chandler, after a few stiff drinks, he’d have made this so readable and entertaining we wouldn’t care about its underpinnings or its flaws.
”Discovering pulp fiction now, right now, is a bit like finding a lost treasure. You are unearthing something that will entertain, enlighten, amuse, horrify, mangle, jangle, keep you riveted. Decades after they were written, these stories still manage to have an edge.”--Harlan CobenI'm in heaven. Well, maybe not literally…but certainly in a literary sense! I've discovered pulp fiction. I am excited. Deliriously so. I've:• secured a couple of telephone directory sized compendiums of hardboiled an
”Discovering pulp fiction now, right now, is a bit like finding a lost treasure.
COUNT ME IN!In the ‘20s, ‘30s, ‘40s & early ‘50s, the biggest names in the crime fiction pulp world were all published by Black Mask and other major pulp publications; Chandler, Daly, Gardner, Hammett, McCoy, Nebel, Whitfield, to name but a few.
Hammett was one of the few writers of PI fiction who had actual experience as a private detective, having worked for the famous Pinkerton Agency."Edge.
If you're a Noir devotee or have yet to read the genre, Red Harvest is an essential novel.
The Op is certainly smart and skilled, but he's a squat, overweight man who's more than willing to cut whatever corners are necessary in order to achieve what he believes to be the greater good.The Op, who is employed by the Continental Detective Agency in San Francisco, is detailed to the Personville, a mining town known to most as Poisonville.
He quickly proves that he's ready to get down in the muck with the croooks, grafters and corrupt city officials and do whatever is necessary to complete the quest he's assigned himself.As a young man, Hammett had worked as a detective for the Pinkerton agency in San Francisco and had spent some time during the war in the mining town of Butte, Montana as a strikebreaker.
Because it is intentionally understated, the modern reader has been conditioned to miss it.Hammett takes the biggest hit of the three, essentially because the pulps from which he sprang never left his work.
Red Harvest is a noir adventure, and its pace almost never lags.The man dubbed “The Continental Op,” the original nameless private detective, arrives in an industrial town nicknamed Poisonville and promptly has his client murdered before he can meet him face-to-face.
I think the loose structure of the plot comes from the fact that the novel was initially developed as a four part serial, and there was a need for some closure at the end at each section.I guess reading Red Harvest has moved Dashiell Hammett up a few notches in my noir future reads list, with The Thin Man being the favorite for next, given how much I enjoyed Myrna Loy and William Powell in the movie adaptation.
664. Red Harvest, Dashiell HammettRed Harvest (1929) is a novel by Dashiell Hammett. The story is narrated by The Continental Op, a frequent character in Hammett's fiction, much of which is drawn from his own experiences as an operative of the Pinkerton Detective Agency (fictionalized as the Continental Detective Agency). The labor dispute in the novel was inspired by Butte's Anaconda Road Massacre. خرمن سرخ - داشیل همت (روزنهکار) ادبیات پلیسی؛ تاریخ نخستین خوانش: بیست و چهارم ماه دسامبر سال 200
Red Harvest, Dashiell HammettRed Harvest (1929) is a novel by Dashiell Hammett.
The labor dispute in the novel was inspired by Butte's Anaconda Road Massacre.
ماجرا از این قرار است، که کارآگاهی به دعوت مدیر روزنامه شهر، که در واقع پسر همان سیاستمدار یاد شده است، وارد شهر می‌شود کارآگاه ضمن تماس با خانواده مدیر روزنامه، درمی‌یابد که برای مدیر روزنامه اتفاقی افتاده است.
از این به بعد کارآگاه درگیر ماجراهایی می‌شود که حوادث اصلی داستان را تشکیل می‌دهد، که رویارویی با افراد شرور و بدکار که در پی به دست گرفتن قدرت در شهر هستند میشود.
Rather than turning tail back to San Fran, our fearless detective decides to follow through with his investigation.The Op soon discovers that the publisher’s father is a highly influential man about town, with a stake in all the important local enterprises.
Perhaps that’s due to our rather pedestrian detective, who's described as a, “short, squat, middle-aged, pig-headed and utterly unsentimental tank of a man,” which is nearly the polar opposite of the suave sophistication and classic good looks of a character such as Philip Marlowe.
If you're into stuff like this, you can read the full review.Ode on a Grecian Urn: "Red Harvest" by Dashiell HammettOriginal Review, 1981-03-05)Perhaps my deep, identity creating, connections to Germany has made me more open to their critical ideas, and to the effect those ideas have had in the US for the last 50 years.
I don't always agree with them but I enjoy them.
And as a disclaimer I often have NO idea what they are talking about.
And I'll just stick with my babies in the bath water cliché; there is a lot of silly nonsense out there, but there is great thought too.
"He who fights with monsters must take care lest he thereby become a monster.”—Nietzsche, quoted by the Continental Op.Red Harvest (1929) is a novel by Dashiell Hammett.
If I don’t get away soon I’ll be going blood simple like the natives.” I don’t think I had ever read this book before, though I did see Fistful of Dollars (featuring Clint Eastwood), which was in part based on this story.
There are three central Hammett novels: The Thin Man, The Maltese Falcon, both known also for famous film adaptations.
Go ahead, ask me.”If you decide to read a few noir classics, this has to be on your list.
No, this book isn’t about farming in communist Russia.The Continental Op travels to Personville, USA following an invite from the editor of the local newspaper, but upon the Op’s arrival, he finds out that his host had been gunned down in cold blood.
Sure, he’s getting a hell of a payday out of this job but the odds are overwhelming that the only way he’ll be leaving Personville is in a box, so why stick to it?
The basis of the Op’s plan involved turning all the rival gangs in Personville on one another and that could only be done by playing sides coupled with a whole hell of a lot of back stabbing.
“You're drunk, and I'm drunk, and I'm just exactly drunk enough to tell you anything you want to know.
If I like a person, I'll tell them anything they want to know.
Go ahead, ask me.” A quick and impressive read, especially for the time it was written.
If you've read even only one hard boiled crime novel in your life, you're almost certain to find part of it within the pages of Red Harvest.An enjoyable crime novel that everybody with even a passing interest in the genre should seek out.“This damned burg's getting me.
Things turn out to be a little more complicated for the Op than he had hoped and start to look very bleak indeed for our “hero” up until the very end.This tale of a stranger coming to a corrupt town and proceeding to clean up by playing one side against the other is a great set-up (perhaps most effectively portrayed in film in Kurasawa’s Yojimbo, but also used in A Fistful of Dollars and Last Man Standing to name but a few), but I just wasn’t totally sucked in by the book.
According to Wiki, Hammett himself worked as an investigator for the Pinkerton's Detective Agency and he was therefore able to bring strong sense of realism to his milieu and to the character of the nameless narrator - the Continental Detective Agency Operative or Op. This book, Hammett's first, was first published in 1929 and its setting was the Depression and the Age of Prohibition.
Even in this genre, I think I still prefer the story to be character-driven rather than event-driven.
For example, the character of Dinah Brand was killed halfway the story and only became really the focal point of the plot when she was already dead.
Unlike in Cain's Double Indemnity, his femme fatale Phyllis Nirdlinger was the one who manipulated the narrator.
I dont re-read ever but i should re-read this every two years when i forgot little of the mystery,the work The OP is doing in Posionville.This novel is a true literary Masterwork that makes you understand why Hammett has the reputation he has in mainstream American Literature let alone in crime,noir fiction.It is a great,fun,bleak hardboiled PI story.
Also Hammett's unpretentious,spare prose flows so amazingly well.It was fun read like the other Continental OP stories I have read because of the wit and a lot of the times I smiled, almost laughing because of how well The OP put the words in a dialogue or inner monologue.
This is one of the most action-packed books I've ever read, 200-some pages of black cars skidding around corners with gangsters hanging out of them spraying bullets everywhere.Hammett's weirdly chaste, unnamed protagonist arrives in Personville bringing absolute bloody havoc with him, for reasons even he's not completely clear on.
He wants to clean it up, but along the way he wants to kill.
But it's easier to have them killed off, easier and surer, and, now that I'm feeling this way, more satisfying." He loses control so badly that when he's framed for murder, (view spoiler)[he's legitimately unsure about whether he's guilty.
A perfect rejoinder for whenever you are next accosted by some bothersome elderly person prattling on about how things used to be so much nicer (e.g. books, movies, *chuckle* the world).
Little more than ten years shy of being a hundred, this pulp classic is as volatile a read now as it was when it first spilled ink across the pages of Black Mask.
But this rollicking private eye yarn is packed with gun fights, drugs, boozing, lurid women, blackmail, explosions, fist fights, stabbings, crooked cops and dumb crooks, reckless driving and an average of about a violent death every five pages.
Pulp noir was the original punk rock in case you didn't know.
I did not enjoy this book as much as I thought I would. I felt the plot was contrived at times - I mean, how many betrayals do we need in a story before it becomes commonplace? The characters felt cartoonish - the femme fatale was just too much of a cliche. It did not have the finesse of a Chandler's story, that's for sure. Just three stars.
Bueno, poco puedo decir.
I read a review of Red Harvest recently and decided I wanted to read this 1929 book by Dashiell Hammett, an author whose name is very familiar to me but whom I have not managed to read other than The Maltese Falcon a very long time ago.
Let’s do one more: hooray!)I know some readers have a rule against reading any GR reviews before or while reading the book.
It was almost as fun to read the reviews as the book!
… Of all classic hard-boiled novels, this one has a record of having maximum number of dead bodies per page.
Red Harvest was originally published starting in 1927 as a 4-part serial.
This is classic hardboiled noir from the author that also gave us The Maltese Falcon.
This is a book where if I didn't tell you it was noir, you would still be hearing the voice of Humphrey Bogart as your inner voice by the second chapter.
It doesn't affect much, but I did say "You are a child" out loud to a fictional character, so that's a thing.===================This is the May buddy-read with the Non-Crunchy Cool Classic Pantaloonless lads and ladies.
Believe I breezed through it before anyone else got a chance to start.
This is the case when it comes to hard-boiled American pulp crime fiction from the 1930s; this is the case when it comes to author Dashiell Hammett; and this is very nearly the case when it comes to this novel, 'Red Harvest'.
It carried more weight among people who studied and pursued writing at the time (the intelligentsia of the 1930s) and among fellow practitioners of pulp (the heirs to Hammett) down to today than it ever has among 'casual' crime readers.
But all the determined story-scribblers who followed in Hammett's wake have steered the genre ever since, with this Pole star hanging over their typewriters.'The Maltese Falcon' can never lend its 'whole' structure to any other derivative works.
Red Harvest had too many characters, too many jerky sub-plots, too many red herrings and a private investigator who could have used a lesson in style from Mr. Spade.
Yet Hammett's writing and dialogue held me through it and is still a great reason for reading this novel.The weird thing is that I kept thinking about Yojimbo, the Kurosawa film about a samurai who shows up in a corrupt village and destroys it by playing the people who run the town against each other.
A little research led me to discover that most scholars think Yojimbo was based on Red Harvest but Kurosawa denied it.
Later acquired a vintage Dell map-back edition of some of the same stories titled Dead Yellow WomenIt wasn't until I'd read this that it became my favorite of all of the Hammett novels (and stories) combined.This was the perfect read following my obsession with Faulkner's Snopes Trilogy.Classic novel, this one.
One of the greatest hardboiled mysteries ever written.No author working the Hardboiled genre ever wrote a better novel.Maybe no modern author ever wrote a better novel regardless of genre.Note: The copy read is the Vintage Crime/Black Lizard edition orginally published in 1992.
I didn't think it was possible that Dashiell Hammett could ever top the the coolness of the Maltese Falcon but I think I like Red Harvest even more. The nameless Continental Op arrives in Personville, better known to the locals as Poisonville, and the body count starts rising and doesn't stop until the end. The Op is a classic noir character and is nowhere close to a good guy, However, he is a supreme badass and I loved reading about him. If you like noir fiction, this may be the tops.
She may be alluring, but she's also big and tough and not above slapping men around.The hard boiled detective is also the same and maybe that's why Hammett doesn't bother giving him a name.
We know he's a Continental Op from San Francisco and as usual it's from his first person narrative that we learn the story.Everyone else, including the cops, are crooks.
Few of them survive the story.In a nutshell, the Continental Op has been called to Personville (called "Poisonville" by everyone) by a Donald Willsson who is murdered before the Op gets to meet him.
