https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/153954.The_Human_Use_Of_Human_Beings
New paradigms based on technology require huge technological leaps that occur within a generation for inspiration and I'm not sure there were any before then that qualify.) Today, this baton has been passed to those viewing the world as networks (i.e. Steven Johnson) and information (i.e. Seth Lloyd), but Wiener scooped them all.Employing Claude Shannon's new information theory, Von Neumann's thoughts on computers, Gibbs' statistical physics, and his own keen intellect, Wiener muses on humans as patterns of information in the entropic flow of the universe, human "transmission" (teleportation), and even the social issues stemming from it, such as the economic leapfrog played by agile third-world economics and the dangers of a wholesale shift away from menial labor (and the ensuing creation of an entire generation with no place in the world).
A brilliant, wild little book from a polymath of prodigious proportions, it summarizes his seminal and baffling Cybernetics (1948) and extends an early critique of the information society. Written amid postwar froth, Wiener vaults a theory of communication and control meant to help stabilize any agent (quantum, chemical, biological, human, mechanical, social) into a sweeping philosophically informed lattice of "communal information." A must read for anyone interested in cold war history, philosophy, and politics of information science, technology, and society.
(my review for Amazon)More than fifty years after its initial publication, this book remains as relevant and prophetic as it is brilliant and exhilarating.To start, Wiener explains cybernetics in a way that the intelligent layperson can understand; he discusses how human beings, animals, and machines relate to one another through communication and feedback, thus becoming systems that limit or temporarily reverse the universal tendency toward disorganization (entropy).
The book tells us as much about the systems that make up our world as it does about the brilliance, humility, and humanity of Wiener himself.
In the process of evoking thermodynamics, cybernetics, media and information theory, Wiener introduces a very new kind of vocabulary to understand human behavior - in terms of entropy, feedback systems, taping, encoding, transmission and denoising.
He does so with the help of fiction, often from the likes of Kipling and Poe, and sometimes the mythical Augustinian and Machiavellian devils.Starting with a complete lack of surprise at automation by citing humans' basic abilities to perform as cogs, Wiener then uses this vocabulary to comment on the trajectory of industrial revolution, early valuations of information and the use of communication machines in sensory prosthetics - often delving into ideas of secrecy, deception, surveillance and malicious jamming.
"Nauka je nacin zivota koji moze da cveta samo ako je ljudima data sloboda da imaju veru. Vera koju sledimo po naredjenju nametnutom spolja nije vera, a zajednica koja se oslanja na takvu pseudoveru osudjena je da sebe unisti zbog paralize koju namece nedostatak zdravog procvata nauke."
This is the kind of book that used to be written when scientists and science writers were philosophically literate.
The author outlines his vision of what will be become cybernetics -- the science of information, also an umbrella-term for many other fields of science, ranging from hard science to human sciences.
Having the author's opinion, a brilliant mathematician, about what would the dangers of a poorly managed human/machine relationship be, at a time where personal computer hasn't been invented is very interesting.
Some parts are quite technical and thus need the reader to increase his knowledge about other fields such as mechanics or industrial engineering to really grasp the author's point of view.
Not a must-read in my opinion, but a very refreshing point of view.
We are in 1949, Wiener is lecturing us on communication of humans and its machines; the scope is broad: from physics to society. Regarding information, humans are patterns trying to perpetuate themselves fighting nature’s probabilistic tendency to disorder (second law of thermodynamics). How we are doing it? Well, the whole discussion unveils the beginning of the information revolution supported by computers. Hey, just 70 years ago, geniuses like Wiener and Von Neumann weren't sure about machines beating humans on chess!
This book was referenced in a CISSP study book that I am reading so I thought I'd give it a read. It is still very relevant considering the year it was written. Pretty eerie actually. It'd be a quick and fun read for those who are interested.
This is what happens when one tries hard to glaze a phony layer of "polymath" look on oneself, without actually getting one's hand dirty in initiating one into various disciplines.Der Teufelskreis wird enger!Doch man glaubt nur was man glauben will.
Pre-digital world that never could not see beyond analog.
Not enough robots
Some insightful predictions and observations, but a style of writing tyat jumped a bit too often from idea to idea.
Instead of attempting to construct some sort of short essay, I'll present a few comments.The word "cybernetics" was coined by Norbert Wiener, in 1947 (to use the year specified by the usually reliable Science Fiction Encyclopedia), as an English adaptation of a Greek word, kubernētēs, meaning pilot, steersman, navigator, controller (depending on your source).
The feedback loop is a concept central to Wiener's analysis of automatic communication and control processes in biological and mechanical systems (which may have been the limit of his discussion in his original, 1948 book Cybernetics) and in social systems as well.
Libro difficile, non lineare, eterogeneo. Eppure ricco di spunti sull'apprendimento, il lavoro e in generale lo sviluppo umano che vanno ben oltre quanto nel linguaggio comune si intende per "cibernetica". Wiener fa decisamente fatica a tenere i suoi molti spunti di riflessione in poche pagine.«L’uomo trascorre circa il quaranta per cento della sua vita nella condizione di apprendista, per ragioni che hanno a che fare con la sua struttura biologica. E del tutto naturale che una societa umana si
Libro difficile, non lineare, eterogeneo. Eppure ricco di spunti sull'apprendimento, il lavoro e in generale lo sviluppo umano che vanno ben oltre quanto nel linguaggio comune si intende per "cibernetica". Wiener fa decisamente fatica a tenere i suoi molti spunti di riflessione in poche pagine.«L’uomo trascorre circa il quaranta per cento della sua vita nella condizione di apprendista, per ragioni che hanno a che fare con la sua struttura biologica. È del tutto naturale che una società umana si fondi sulla capacità di apprendere, come all’opposto una comunità di formiche si basi su un modello ereditario».Norbert Wiener
The idea behind the field of cybernetics is that systems can control and regulate themselves, as well communicating with other systems.
In this book he manages to convey quite complex ideas in a non-technical way.
There's a lot repeated from 'Cybernetics' (by the same author) - which is a book that outlines the same ideas but in much more technical language.
On the latter point I would suggest that 'All Watched Over By Machines of Loving Grace' by Adam Curtis would be an excellent companion piece as it shows the rise and fall of Cybernetic theory in mainstream politics and economics in the intervening years since this book was published.
Good insights, but not as coherent, insightful, or interesting as 'Cybernetics' by the same author
Norbert Wiener was a child prodigy and Professor of Mathematics at MIT from 1919 until his death in 1964.
This volume includes an open letter published in the January, 1947 Atlantic Monthly magazine entitled "A Scientist Rebels" by Norbert Wiener.
Heims provides a context for Wiener's works.If you are at all interested in cybernetics, and particularly interested in the effects it is having and will have on society, this book is must reading.
Of course, this book does not approach Wiener's "God & Golem, Inc."(reviewed elsewhere in Amazon.com) for sheer brilliance, but then, what does, except perhaps the "Bahir."

Norbert Weiner, who should most certainly be a household name, is the father of cybernetics. This book was written more than 50 years ago, but the predictions and conclusions are startling and fairly consistent with our current state of affairs. Much of the context is set upon our technological progression, and the inevitable inclination from some to utilize this technology for evil. The book is also very interesting at noting some of the early overlap between society and technology, and the resulting early implications.
Wiener was a genius for his understanding of the nature of communication, as well reflected in his mastery of writing. The chapter on law and communication definitely helped me reconnect to a neglected island of knowledges within my pond of thoughts. Overall, he's in a neutral and intelligent voice, but I LOVE the occasional bursts of yelling(e.g. in chapter 8: role of the intellectual and the scientist).
I read it just to see if there was anything to be gained from returning to the horse’s mouth when it comes to cybernetics and information theory…but there’s not a great deal of interest today, given how much his ideas have permeated our society. It’s a mixum-gatherum of various observations and what he thinks are noteworthy implications of different ideas, a type of free-association of theory in the abstract to try bring it to bear on reality.
This book is a masterpiece of fusion. Fusion between humanitarian and scientific observations linked in a supreme delicacy. The book addresses the implications of the early technological revolutions on society in a very critical, but yet, sober style. A must-read for anyone seeking interest in bio-inspired man-made systems, its content is very cleverly written providing a solid foundation on the discipline of cybernetics.
This visionary talks about the concept of cyber-libraries andmeta programming languages in the 1950's. Low and behold wehave E-Books and E-libraries available online and the E-booksare sorted and searched using a meta programming language...I would recommend this book to all...It's fully readable and understandable by anyone with at leasta GED...
The first important contribution to cybernetics, maybe laid the foundation of it. A visionist and scientist who tried to merge the Humanities with the information science. He was prodromus of semiotics and of a language theory as the most important keys for the hermeneutics of social and natural phenomena.
Essential reading for anyone deep into social networking by one of the pioneers of human-machine interaction. Humans are built to be curious, pattern-making fixers of social challenges while machine are built to be obedient, pattern-following do-ers that assist with the solutions of social interactions. We mix them up to our peril. Read Norbert and be inspired!
Extremely dated, but earnest and clearly written. Most interesting were the worried thoughts on automation-driven unemployment, but maybe that is just because I just read Boom Bust Exodus.Highly recommended for those who enjoy reading this sort of mid-century pop science and don't mind the everpresent worry of nuclear annihilation that seems to come with it.
Wiener's foundational text on the discipline of cybernetics. Fascinating, and a relatively quick read given the subject matter.It's been awhile, but I remember the writing being quite lucid.Worth the read for anyone interested.
An interesting book that dealt mostly with humanitarianism issues and the use of technology. Covered a lot of things between communications, self-teaching/detecting systems, to the role of scientists and the downfall of (in his day) current scholastic direction.
An important read anyone wanting to understand the relationship between "noise" and feedback in the communication process. Totally agree with Chiss review, way back in the 50s Wiener explained, in easy to understand language, fundamental communication processes.
An important read anyone wanting to understand the relationship between "noise" and feedback in the communication process. Totally agree with Chis´s review, way back in the 50´s Wiener explained, in easy to understand language, fundamental communication processes.
