https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/50275.Last_Exit_to_Brooklyn
Nor did their views about what constitutes human relationships, especially the language in which those relationships are described, have any place in literary fiction.What amazes (and frightens) me is how much nothing has changed in the last half century except for a more general awareness of the under-culture of casual violence and criminality as a way of life.
And so has it always been, even if the rather more civilized portion ignores it.Membership in the under-culture is not a choice; it’s an adaptation to reality.
It is the law that creates the under-culture of addicts, street sex workers, and petty thieves who mature into not so petty thieves.
Harrowing portraits of men hating women, mothers hating children, & the truly devastating absence of love. A phenomenal work of art that's raw, revolting, & insidious. Owes a large debt to the dementedness of M d Sade, though the prose--as stark and jarring, as opaque, as a broken shard of obsidian--is just damn Beautiful.I can hear from my window some kind of Requiem suddenly coming on...
The difficulty does not lie in its famous non-punctuation (I nearly went into shock when I spotted an apostrophe in the word "we're" on page 57 – it was such an obvious misprint) and busted up Brooklynese syntax:Goldie lit a few candles and told her Sheila was turning a trick so they had come down here and Im sure you don’t mind honey, handing her some bennie, and told Rosie to make coffee.
But Selby makes those guys look like mealymouthed tergiversators, which they really weren't.
Emotionally it’s an assault.So reading Last Exit to Brooklyn and enjoying it, like I very much did, could be akin to a kind of literary Stockholm syndrome.Less a novel and more a collection of vignettes, Selby Jr.’s first major work is a dark, depressing, visceral, gruff, and scroungy account of the lives of some of the most depraved and tragic characters this side of Shakespeare.
However the content of Last Exit makes Lawrence’s novel look like The Gruffalo.Written in a style that I can only describe as somewhere between Kerouac and nonsense, the book takes the reader hostage.
Which means you are forced to witness every murder, every rape, every mutilation, and every single blowjob.
-Another Day, Another Dollar: A gang of young Brooklyn hoodlums hang around an all-night cafe and get into a vicious fight with a group of US Army soldiers on leave.-The Queen Is Dead: Georgette, a transvestite hooker, is thrown out of the family home by her brother and tries to attract the attention of a hoodlum named Vinnie at a benzedrine-driven party.-And Baby Makes Three: An alcoholic father tries to keep good spirits and maintain his family’s marriage traditions after his daughter becomes pregnant and then marries a motorcycle mechanic.-Tralala: The title character of an earlier Selby short story, she is a young Brooklyn prostitute who makes a living propositioning sailors in bars and stealing their money.
Rare is the book that leaves me so disoriented and raw-nerved.
When I finished this I sat slack-jawed for a minute letting my cigarette burn out and trying to fix my mind on something/anything.
This is an excruciatingly penetrating vision of the total dregs; a narrative of self-delusion, rough trade, addiction and thanatos thanatos thanatos.
I didn't like the characters (you can't) but oh god did I want to stop with the beating into senselessness, I really really wanted them to claw out some bitty iota of self-awareness, life-force, something/anything.
Do I sound like some dumbfuck blurb or what?
Had I read this at the time of release in 1964 it would have seemed like being struck by a lightning bolt from hell where one was made to feel sick, disgusted and appalled by it's graphic depiction of pretty much the worst that human behaviour has to offer.
Fast forward to 2015 and nothing has changed, this is a shocking, gut-wrenching read which creates a vision of hell on earth for a bunch of New Yorkers who are just about as far away from the american dream as possible.
Selby Jr was a genius in my view, he really had a pair of balls to even be thinking of putting pen to paper and you truly do stand up and take notice.
Creo que no había leído un libro que me estuviera provocando tanto asco y rechazo como lo estaba haciendo este de Hurbert Selby Jr. Y yo, que soy profundamente rencoroso, pensé en imponerle un castigo ejemplar, darle donde más dolía: le otorgaría una vengativa y solitaria estrella.
Una forma nada ortodoxa, que en su día fue objeto de desprecio por los académicos pero que yo ya había disfrutado en otros autores como James Kelman, un escritor que comparte con Selby ética y estética y que recibió el mismo desprecio de la crítica.
The writing style's brilliant, but the stories are so vivid that the pain of the characters is visceral.
It's not a novel so much as it's a series of short stories that tie together to portray the hell-hole that was 1950's Brooklyn.
There was a whole obscenity case about this book when it was published in the early 1960's: the story that received the most attention for being obscene, however, was not the one I found most painful.
This is one of a few stories written in a hybrid first/third person stream of consciousness style, which makes you feel for Georgette, a young gay man and sort of transsexual.
A searing sift through the slurried slums of post-war Brooklyn.
The only book that uses shock, violence and vulgarity to depict a world of tragic isolation that truly pierces the heart, gets you so deeply you feel you are THERE, in this boneyard of brittle bones and broken bodies, crying and fighting and fucking and SHOUTING AT YER FREAKIN KIDS TA SHUT THERE TRAPS.
His essay in the collection Something Said illuminates the construction of these elegant art-bombs, unlocking the complexity and beauty in Selby's compostions.Best Brooklyn novel, bar none.
(Books this good sometimes make me question the need for punctuation, actually...)I actually had difficulty trying to start this book in the past, but reading Joyce's "Ulysses" has raised my reading comprehension level greatly, so this thing flows like buttah.The terms "gay" and "Miss Thing" were already in use in 1957.
(like that)Also, a must in the realm of gay/queer lit in its evocation of gay bars, drag balls, rough trade, and repressed sexuality taking the form of violence and compensatory extreme male hetero behavior.The heroes of the book, if there can be said to be any, are the stoic, browbeaten women.
Selby's depiction of her reality is lyrical, perhaps the only real lyricism in the book.
Suffering from chronic pulmonary problems for the rest of his life, even without formal training, he began to write reasoning to himself that "I know the alphabet.
Both stories, in fact all of the 5 stories in this book, deal with and vivid depiction of homosexuality, drug addition, rapes, pornography and cruelty to ones' own children.
However, Selby's prose is beautiful and has the ability to make his characters practically leap off the pages of his book.
Selby used Ada as the only sympathetic character in this book and it worked like magic because of the contrast and irony that she provided.One of my unforgettable reads this year.
"Then I took a deep breath and thought that sooner or later someone else will inadvertently come across this book and feel the same, there's a lot of people out there who will decide to give it a go out of sheer curiosity.
I had to put down the book while reading it, because the physical need to wash my hands and face was just overwhelming.
On the other side, there can be another kind of reaction to this book; the one that comes from reading words that for whatever reason sound familiar, words that ring a bell, words that tear your skin and flesh and guts apart.
I can picture this book being read in college literature classes.
I am sure that it deserves its place in modern American Literature and I am also sure that this book and Selby have their fans.
I think that I was expecting it to be sort of like Kennedy's Iron Weed (which I liked) but much darker but Last Exit isn't dark---it is more like wallowing in a sewer and I kept reading only by hoping to see what Selby was trying to say to the reader.
Even the people that give his books 5 stars didn't enjoy reading them.
I mean, technically Sunset Park in Brooklyn is like ten minutes away on foot, but Brooklyn's come a long way in forty years and I don't know anyone like anyone in this book, which is great for me because there is an awful lot of rape going on.And the thing is that Selby is such a terrific observer of people, and he has this wonderful sympathy for them, so he gets you inside even the most loathsome of characters - and everyone here is basically loathsome, so when I say "most" I mean MOST - and you understand a little of why they're like this, the loneliness and hopelessness and hurt fury inside them.
The high ratings and high praise for this book put me in mind of the following scenario: a group of people stand around a display at a gallery - simply, a pile of shit upon a table.
The idiots surrounding the table do not dare to let the others know their hidden truth: they don't (don/t) get it, it looks like shit to them!
Like the drag queens who treat us to an unrealistic evening (speed consricts blood vessels, erections need blood, just sayin') this piece looks like a book from the outside, but inside?SHIT!
I don't mean to sound all rough and tough, I grew up in a working class Chicago neighborhood, but I knew people a couple steps removed from Selby's characters.
Maybe people feel better when they frame the Last Exit to Brooklyn universe as far away from home, but the novel's power's in the transposition of the darkness to the every day.
I mean, there are people feel the same as these characters all around, within a block, for certain, unless you live in central South Dakota or wherever.
Βιβλίο σκληρό, κυνικό και άκρως ωμό.
Δεδομένου δε, ότι γράφτηκε σε μια εποχή που τα πρόσωπα κοκκίνιζαν ευκολότερα σε όσα οι ηθικοί κανόνες περιόριζαν, το κάνει ακόμα πιο σκληρό.Δεν είναι ένα βιβλίο για να περάσεις καλά.
Όχι τόσο ότι κατάφερε να με προκαλέσει, όσο το γεγονός ότι η επιλογή λέξεων και εικόνων που δημιουργούν εξυπηρετούσαν καταφανώς επιτηδευμένα έναν και μοναδικό σκοπό: να σοκάρει τον αναγνώστη του.Ίσως να απογοητεύτηκα και λίγο που δεν κατάφερα να βρω έστω και έναν χαρακτήρα ελάχιστα συμπαθή.
Ωστόσο όντας προετοιμασμένη για την ''ηλεκτρική καρέκλα'', στις σελίδες του βρήκα μόνο μια βίαιη, παραληρηματική, χωρίς ανάσα αφήγηση και πού πήγαν οι τελείες οεο; Το σίγουρο πάντως είναι ότι είχα περισσότερες απαιτήσεις από ένα πεντάστερο ανάγνωσμα.
I'd previously thought that recent authors chronicling amoral and desperate lives in blunt direct terms (say, Bret Easton Ellis and Irvine Welsh) owed a lot to Bukowski in particular. But Last Exit to Brooklyn both predates Bukowski's first novel and points most directly ahead to the likes of Trainspotting. Except this is more obliteratingly bitter, more deathly demoralizing. Selby's vision is positively apocalyptic, but only in the most frighteningly believable terms.
But after opening it and reading the first sentence, just as with Aronofsky, I was attached at the hip to this book, and have since read it many times over again, although only at times when my stomach and my faith in humanity are sufficiently reinforced enough to handle it.Wholly depressing almost in its entirety, and yet somehow keenly fascinating, Last Exit to Brooklyn is a forage deep into a dark and ugly world, one where the light of the American dream has never pierced even one tiny ray of its brilliance upon the people within.
Selby guides those special characters in the story, the ones you never thought you could care about, into your heart, quietly and covertly.
seriously? there were actually a couple of times I had to put this down because it was so brutal it was scaring me, it literally made my heart race, but not in a 'spooky' scary, it was in a 'wow this actually is happening somewhere in the world', it has such an air of truth about it that it gave me shivers on multiple occasions. absolutely amazing book.
The only reason you don’t like the pinching, flicking and twisting technique is simply because you haven’t been properly educated.”Having said that, I here is why Shelby’s novel Last Exit to Brooklyn was not enjoyable to me.First, I disliked the stream-of-consciousness narrative.
Personally I don’t.The second problem I had is that the stream-of-consciousness lyricism, bad grammar and intentional misspellings sometimes came off as gimmicky and at times outright confusing.
I personally feel the reason Shelby never gave Tralala any depth wasn't an intentional stylistic choice, but rather because he was an amateur writer that was so focused on getting to the Big Scene that he didn't bother with creating any emotional connections between Tralala and the reader.
Before I write the review can I say that the only thing that kept me going was the SMELL of this boo
Just reread this for my book group, having first read it umpteen years ago.
As I was rereading I was struck by the parallels with Trainspotting, both in the depiction of street life and the extensive use of an unpunctuated vernacular.
What Last Exit to Brooklyn lacks in comparison with Trainspotting is any humour.
This time round I was also struck by the rather one dimensional and slightly sinister depiction of the book's gay men.
Not a pleasant read but, undeniably, a landmark book that still stands up.
An truly unsettling read, as all of the Selby I've read to date has been. Nauseating at some points.One thing I remember about this book was that the explicit spelling out of gruff, blue collar, New Yawk accents (kind of like the NYC equivalent to the way that Mark Twain captured thick southern accents in Huck Finn, etc) was so grating and constant that I literally was hallucinating (mildly) that everyone around me (in northeast Illinois) was speaking with these accents after setting down the book while its contents still weighed heavily upon my mind.
This book is brutal, but fantastic!! There are no likeable characters here, but you can't help but feel sorry for the desperate situations they are in at times. A portrayal of the nastiest, lowest forms of character amongst us. A much cruder version of the human conditions that Emile Zola wrote about almost a century previous to this. I'm wondering why I've not read this before now. Looking forward to reading more of his work.
This book turned me into a transparent, impalpable entity and sent me back in time to the harsh, ruthless but incredibly alive quarter of Brooklyn in the 1950's; letting me observe a number of local souls going about their daily life, struggling to survive, trying to grasp pleasure and avoid pain whenever they can, dealing with their internal demons while the world around them continues its eternal assault.
What I feel from his writings and from the interviews I have seen is that Hubert Selby Jr was an incredibly spiritual person, that he had a very rare understanding of the human soul.
This book provides ample glimpse of the obsessive and the Underground that is prominently featured in Requiem for a dream.The book is structured into parts that are introduced with a verse from the Bible and the contents are anything but moral; in a way they are, as it showcases the frailty of mortality and the breakdown of human behaviour.
The author presents the details of the trial and the whole brouhaha around the release of the book, its ban and the eventual grant of permission.The writing itself is a mix of styles as the author gets into the head of the character and the way he modulates his words based on the character is something that deserves a lot of credit.
It's supposed to be a literary classic, which is how I think it ended up on our work book club list, but I don't understand why.
But I really can't think of anything I liked about it.
Found the structure puzzling, the first couple of chapters were quite short, then a huge long chapter in the middle focusing on Harry and the strike, then the last part of the book rushes through some more characters, but not in nearly as much detail, almost as if Selby wanted to get it over with.
Took me a couple of weeks to read it, despite being quite short.
There are two books that every wholesome American boy and girl should read: The Grapes of Wrath and The Last Exit to Brooklyn. This is quintessential Americana mixed with broken hearts and broken teeth.
