https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/64883.Some_Must_Watch
Then this is the book for you.The scene is set in 1930's England at the mansion of the aristocratic Warren family, in a remote location bordering on Wales.
Newly hired maid young Helen, all alone in the world, is delighted to have landed any job and just can't believe her good luck to finally find employment, even if the mansion is in a desolate location.She just can't understand why they have problems keeping any help in the first place.
This book covers a long day and even longer night as Helen slowly realizes that the fiend that has previously murdered 4 young ladies in the area might have chosen her as his next victim.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5hwzw...Description (from wiki): In early 20th century New England, a serial killer murders disabled young women in the community. His next victim apparently is Helen (McGuire), a mute girl working as a live-in companion for the wealthy, bedridden Mrs. Warren (Barrymore). Mrs. Warren urges her to leave the house, as does Dr. Parry, who knows the reason for Helen's loss of speech and hopes to help her get her voice back. Rounding out the household are Mrs. Warren's son and stepson, her verbally abused nurse, a secretary, a handyman and his wife, a housekeeper with a taste for brandy.
A neo-Gothic suspense thriller starring Dorothy McGuire, giving an almost Oscar-caliber performance despite the fact that she only has three or four lines of dialogue, and abetted by a remarkable supporting cast that is just aces (George Brent, Ethel Barrymore, Kent Smith, Elsa Lanchester, Rhonda Fleming et al.), the picture has been one of this viewer's personal Top 100 favorites for decades now, and I have long wanted to read its source novel, Welsh author Ethel Lina White's "Some Must Watch." And fortunately, thanks to the fine folks at Arcturus Publishing, a reasonably priced edition can be easily procured today; "fortunately," I say, seeing that the original hardcover seems to now be completely unobtainable, even on the usually dependable Bookfinder website, and the fact that even the 1946 movie tie-in paperback can be a dicey proposition.White, I should perhaps mention, was a new author for me.
A vintage mystery/suspense story that features an isolated mansion, a young inquisitive housemaid an eccentric aristocratic family and a murderer.I wanted to rate this higher because it had all of the elements that I look for in these type of novels but this one just didn't work for me. Found it to be a bit too repetitive in places and the characters were glossed over in parts. Found it difficult to get a real sense of some of them. The ending was very abrupt with no real sense of closure. Interesting premise but failed to deliver.
I just finished reading  Some Must Watch  by Ethel Lina White, and I loved it. Most of the time anyway. It is also known as The Spiral Staircase, I don't know why, and it has been filmed as The Spiral Staircase and I don't know why to that either, I've never seen the movie. As for the book there are plenty of people going up and down staircases, more than one, but there are also plenty of people going in and out of bedrooms, kitchens, and basements. Also, there are plenty of people going in and
At the Summit is our main character, Helen Capel, who answered an advertisement for a lady-help at the home of Professor Warren, she realizes once she arrives why it is no woman ever stays there long.Her one dread was being out of work.
There could be a romance beginning between him and Helen, it moves rather slowly though since eventually he gets locked out of the house and under the Professor's order they can't let him in, so the romance will have to wait until the killer is captured.
Suspenseful throughout!I had seen the classic movie years ago & enjoyed it, but like every movie made from a book there are changes and that is one reason I enjoy reading books that were made into movies.
I have usually seen the movie long before reading the book but it only makes it more interesting seeing the difference which there were many but still the same kind of end.
--I always enjoy reading books that were made into classic/older movies that I saw years ago & this is such a book that piqued my interested for that reason.
As Helen opened the door of Miss Warren's room, a small incident occurred which was fraught with future significance.It was a dark and stormy night....no, really, it was.
Death and terror creep closer to the Summit, but still Helen feels safe...until the stormy night when she bolts herself in the house only to find that the danger was somewhere inside and had chosen her as the next target.White also provides the typical suspense-thriller heroine in Helen Capel, a self-identified independent-minded young woman who none-the-less does remarkably silly things for someone who suspects she's in danger.
I really took to the book-Helen, with her curious interest in people's behavior, her zest for life and delight in details and little changes from ordinary routine.
I knew the solution to the mystery going into it (assuming that the movie hadn't changed it; it took me a little while to decide that it hadn't), but it didn't spoil my enjoyment of the book at all—I enjoyed White's writing, the back-and-forth struggles between the clashing personalities of the characters, and the vividly-evoked atmosphere of the isolated old Victorian mansion lashed by a storm.
Lange Schatten und klappernde Fensterläden untermalen den Leitsatz, der bei Akte X seine größte Bekanntheit erlangt hat: Traue niemandem!Nun handelt es sich zwar bei DIE WENDELTREPPE um einen frühen Thriller, aber die Verknüpfung zum Mystery-Genre mit übernatürlichen Anteilen ist gar nicht so unpassend, wie ich finde.
Denn so, wie in der Hörspielfassung die arme Helen Schlag auf Schlag mit neuen Gefahren konfrontiert wird und jeder, aber auch jeder im Haus der Mörder sein könnte, musste ich an die Weird Fiction eines Arthur Leo Zagat aus den 30er Jahren denken.
This book was so much fun to read and it hit all of my classic mystery reading buttons -- an isolated family home, a murderer on the prowl and all of it set against the proverbial dark and stormy night, complete with banging shutters and an elderly bedridden woman predicting doom and gloom.
Having said that, I don't think it's a 5-star read but I definitely had a great time with it.
On the whole -- not great literature, but definitely a fun read, one right up my old-school mystery-reading alley.
Helen, a young woman, has taken a job with the Warren family in their manor house right slap bang in the middle of where the murderer is doing his thing.
So Professor Warren puts all kinds of safety measures in operation which everyone then promptly ignores, even Helen, who doesn't seem to be able to remember basic things like don't open the door to potential murderers late at night.
Gradually all the people who could have protected her either leave the house or become incapacitated in one way or another, until she is left only with horrible old Lady Warren, whose hobby is throwing things at menials, and Lady Warren's even more horrible nurse, whose hobby is tormenting Helen.
One of those rare books that genuinely deserves the epithet 'unputdownable' - and yet it's so restrained and small scale. All the action takes place in one evening and almost entirely in the one house. It's not a detective yarn but there is a mystery at the heart of it (several, actually). Even though it involves a homicidal maniac and the gothic staple of young girl as heroine in a house full of eccentrics it remains thoroughly believable. Most of White's books are out of print but this one was reprinted this year, so hopefully more are on the way.
Whenever I cannot decide on which genre I want to read, I tend to be selecting mysteries at the moment.
I have really enjoyed a couple of White's books to date, but was rather disappointed by the last which I read.
White writes wonderfully, and I found the novel engaging from its first page.
I love country house mysteries, and this is one of the better ones which I have read for a while.
The real strength here, aside from the well developed and engaging cast of characters, is the atmosphere which White creates; the novel is incredibly creepy at times because of it.
A type of unJane Eyre, Helen Capel finds herself an upper crust dogsbody in a big house across the Welsh border that holds an even bigger secret.
It is a dark and stormy night--and one by one those who might save her from the serial killer who has just killed a young working woman nearby leave or are foiled/incapacitated.
There is a lot of thematic focus on working women and the choices economically vulnerable women faced in the thirties.
Helen is a particularly appealing and stereotype-defying instance of what were once called "surplus women," women who weren't born with silver spoons and who had to work, but weren't trained for a profession.
This one is more of a Thriller than a murder/mistery, and it kept me wondering who was the evil in the shadows. It had to be someone I wasn't counting on, and for once I didn't get it until the end. So that's cool! :)
I wanted to read this book as it's the text that inspired the film The Spiral Staircase, one of my favourite thrillers.
The film is set in a huge, isolated mansion during a stormy night.
There are a variety of different people in the house, all either members, servants or guests of the Warren family.
A killer of young women is on the loose, and it becomes apparent that Helen, the young home-help staying at the Warren house, is likely to become the next victim.
If you like thrillers and creepy stories about mansions on dark stormy nights then definitely read it!
Mrs Oates, the affable cook, is getting shitfaced in the pantry.
There is also a horny daughter-in-law, a love-sick doctor and a couple of more characters who get lost in the crowd.
When news of the umpteenth murder reaches them, the typical reaction is: "You don't say." The victim is casually described as "the pretty sluttish girl who used to dust under Lady Warren's bed".
Helen and Evil Nurse, looking for a new place to hide the rum from the cook: - How could she get at the brandy?
Mrs Oates is not as tall as I am, but she has a reach like a gorilla.
I was expecting the movie's script to be a faithful transposition of the book...instead I stumbled upon a couple of quite interesting dissimilarities.First of all the protagonist is not mute in the book (for this I must compliment the script writer - it was an absolutely brilliant idea...).
I can't remember now if the Nurse actually appears in the film...anyway I loved her character and its interaction with the heroine.The novel was published in 1933, just a year after Fear Stalks The Village.
Amazing how in a year she managed to refine her craft.
That would be a challange for every writer.
It's such a shame that Ethel Lina White is forgotten by today's readers, because this book was SO much better than I expected.
I've never seen the old movie "The Spiral Staircase" which is based on this novel; for some reason, the filmmaker apparently made the heroine mute.
The atmosphere is just saturated with menace, which keeps building and building as the inhabitants of the Summit (a large and isolated old house) are reduced one by one, leaving Helen ever more vulnerable to the serial killer outside -- or is he inside?I was relishing this book so much while reading it that I was afraid the ending would be a letdown.
Once I really started this book (i.e. past the first 30 pages) I just couldn't put it down.
It is able to draw you in with the protagonist having thoughts most people have probably had: hearing noises in the woods or thinking you hear people walking around the house at night, seeing things moving and not sure whether it's a trick of the eye or actually there.
Add to that the serial killer on the loose and you just have to finish this book to find out what happens.
Brilliant read and wonderfully written this novel captures its audience and doesn't let go until the final page.
Superb woman-in-peril mystery let down by a repetitious second act. White's novel , which inspired the exquisite 1946 film THE SPIRAL STAIRCASE... is a craft class in mounting suspense and carefully constructed irony. YMy one quibble, and it's a large one is the misuse of the Nurse character and an abrubt climax that feels tacked on. Still, if you enjoy early-20th century mystery you should give this one a go. Well worth a look.
Very tense, couldn't put it down! Its almost four thirty am, it was too tense for me to stop reading. I think it was because of all the "Oh, did I hear something? Oh, did I really just see that?" scenes, which is often how I feel when I'm home alone.
I finally got my hands on this book that had nurtured my love of writing and got me searching for suspense devices as clever as muteness.When I'm only a few pages into chapter one, I notice something odd.
Even when this film has been remade, and it has been 3 times, they have always used the muteness, so that means they have always used Dinelli's screenplay as the basis rather than the book.So what can I say?
To enjoy the suspense of this novel you will need to put yourself into Helen's shoes - she is without family, the timing is during an economic slump (hence jobs are scarce & wages low) early 1930s - she is un-educated and raised at a convent - she is a typical character of the time who is imaginative in the area of the supernatural & landscapes, is superstitious & subservient, believes that men are more powerful and intellectual than women, and that men should be respected and esteemed for these reasons - and that she herself being small in stature needs the protection of others that are stronger than herself - often belittles her own self worth but at other times tries to prove that she has her beliefs and standards.
Though it may not be near much, her curiosity keeps her busy as she tries to figure out the people that are living under the roof of this manor house.Mrs. Warren, the matriarch, who is bed-ridden and is also Helen's boss.
During this time, a nurse is brought in to take care of Mrs. Warren.
She is cold and harsh and seems resentful of the new position she has taken.After the nurse arrives, the Professor gives orders that the house is to be locked for the night and that no one can come or go.

Great book to read and finish while waiting for Hurricane/Tropical Storm Florence to pass through. I have seen the 1946 movie version of this book called “The Spiral Staircase” many times over the years. It is one the best atmospheric house movies. The book while different in some of the details was just as good and I can see why they made some of the changes in the movie. I highly recommend both the book and the movie on a dark rainy day.
An old fashioned mystery that creates a great atmosphere however, the main character let's the story down - she becomes so annoying that my teeth were gritted in frustration at every move and thought she made! Some of the supporting characters were much more interesting and through them the book continued to keep me interested.
Although the plot is a bit cliche and dated (young servant girl in a secluded country manor with a serial murderer on the loose), the prose is taut and the atmosphere eerie, as Helen, the servant, finds her self more and more alone on a dark and stormy night, the suspense steadily increasing. The resolution left a lot of open questions, but overall this was a quick, satisfying read.
