https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/24909.The_Mouse_and_His_Child
Simply stunning -- the story of a wind-up mouse & his son and their adventures in the cold mean world beyond the nursery.
Although they eventually manage to escape his clutches, the rat doggedly follows them as they bumble from crisis to crisis, dependent on the mercies of the strangers they meet to wind up their clockwork and keep them moving.
Beyond the adventures and narrow escapes from the evil rat, there is profound philosophy to be found in these pages.
Don't be misled by this book's cover, with its gentle picture of a windup toy mousehand in hand with his small son. The Mouse and His Child is and isn't a children's book but it is not recommended for the soft hearted of any age.  The title characters, a mouse and his child, are toys who seem quite astonished to find themselves in the world, moving from a toyshop to display items under a Christmas tree to, quite suddenly, the dump. Despite his father's doubts, despite the adversity of the world
The Mouse and His Child is and isn't a children's book but it is not recommended for the soft hearted of any age.
The title characters, a mouse and his child, are toys who seem quite astonished to find themselves in the world, moving from a toyshop to display items under a Christmas tree to, quite suddenly, the dump.
Like most good children's stories, it can be read simply as a wonderful adventure if you are ten or as a sophisticated fantasy with clever dialogue and deep meaning if you are twenty.
This is another book in my desultory campaign to re-read books that I liked in childhood and see if they stand up to adult scrutiny. THIS REVIEW HAS BEEN CURTAILED IN PROTEST AT GOODREADS' CENSORSHIP POLICYSee the complete review here:http://arbieroo.booklikes.com/post/33...
Yeah.It's pretty clear to me, at this point, that Hoban must have been an exceptionally smart man, and possessed of an exceptional mind to be able to think up even that handful of stories which - regardless of whether I liked them or not - are all pretty startlingly varied and original pieces of writing.
Now I'm starting to think that the opposite can be true: there are great writers in the world, commanders of language, theme and style, who are - confoundingly - so smart or so full of a need to communicate an idea that it gets in the way of telling an entertaining story.
He doesn't remember it, and I think now that he was too young for it and another few years would have made tremendous difference to his understanding of the themes, but might also have made him wary of reading a story about talking clockwork toys.
Now he's in his thirties, I think I'll give him a copy of his own.Everyone should read the story of the clockwork mouse and his child, the child who never gives up hope of a family and house of their own.
I read a blog post about this which made me want to read it, and I thought it might be a good introduction to Hoban's adult books.
This did the epic journey genre really well for me; children's stories about toys are good like that, looking back, because you have to emphasise the characters' combination of helplessness with adventurousness and rely on happenstance to move them around.
It makes the world seem big.Definitely the kind of children's book that adults wax lyrical about but isn't really for kids, though.
Fey. Hoban (all Hoban) has an element of fey-ness in his work.
So it might be said that he also wrote children's books for adults.
Having only encountered Hoban as an adult, and not having read any of his more obviously "for children" books, I can't say.
I first met Hoban in Woolworth's a ways back.
Among their other treasures (not least that lunch counter), our Woolworth's had a fifty-cent remainder bin which, unlike most remainder bins today, actually had remainders of (at times) good books.
What must it have been like to actually be Hoban?
I first read this book when I was maybe 8 or 10, and it's the first time I remember realizing that literature could be SO much more than just a fun story.
On the surface, it's a story about a windup mouse and his son attempting to find their place in a world after being broken and thrown away.
It's got nihilistic philosophy summed up in the form of a dog food can.
It's got a theistic allegory with the father and son.
This was, is, and will continue to be one of my absolute, all-time favorite reads.
Frances the Badger was one of my constant and best friends as a child, but I knew nothing about this one and had no expectations either good or bad.Wow. This is one of the best novels I've ever read.I don't rate books on this site very often simply because I forget, but I felt impelled to rate The Mouse and His Child.
This is a dark book, but it doesn't end dark, and there's plenty kids will enjoy.
But whether you read it as a child or as an adult, The Mouse and His Child needs to be on your list.
The Mouse and His Child, by Russell Hoban, is a pleasant yet touching story about a clockwork mouse and his child's search for a territory to call their own. It progresses at a pleasant pace, apart from a somewhat slow and uninteresting part in the middle of the book, it is intriguing throughout. I enjoyed the end a huge amount, and I would recommend it to a friend.
I started The Mouse and His Child with caution, ready at any moment to shut the book and send it back unfinished should the story take a downward turn—and it seemed at any moment it might.
The protagonist of the story is a mechanical windup toy of a mouse joyfully holding his child up at the end of outstretched arms.
I know that I, a fifty-five year old man, loved it also.How does a windup toy survive in a world as dark and dangerous as the one I previously described?
Bedtime stories to give your child nightmares - an extract “It’s nothing said the frightened donkey as he heard Manny Rat approach his blind side “I’ve got plenty of work left in me, I was just feeling a little low - you know how it is” “You’re not well” said Manny Rat “I can see that easily, what you need is a long rest.” He picked up a heavy rock, lifted it high, and brought it down on the donkeys back, splitting him open like a walnut. “Put his works in the spare parts can” said Manny Rat to Ralphie
This is a book for adults.
It is full of adult humor and themes--satire, parody, existentialism, nostalgia...
I read it as a fourth grader but I don't think I understood it then, though I hope I enjoyed the adventure story.
As an adult I loved it and cried at the end.
The last few chapters are very satisfying and tender and smooth it out after all the scary and distressing events earlier in the book.
It is a very unique work but if you like rereading classics such as Charlotte's Web as an adult, then you're probably someone who would like this.
I sat down with the book and read it in about five hours.
I just entirely could not put it down.This is not a children's book.
At least not for young children.
Or at least they broke mine.And under all that beauty and poignancy, there is a deep philosopical element, and a lot of very large questions and the book gently nudges the reader into thinking about these larger questions in a way that is not at all cliched or preachy.
In fact, there is nothing about this book that I would call cliched or cheesey.
The title characters of the Mouse and His Child are a toy - a windup mouse father joined by the hands to his son and meant to dance in a circle.
At first, the child's desire for a family gives their life meaning.
Then the father begins to see the necessity for them to be self-winding.
The Mouse and His Child is heavily allegorical.
However, I kept pushing forward with our wind-up mouse heroes, and the journey rewarded me in the end.
The Mouse and His Child is halfheartedly billed as a children's book.
"The Mouse and His Child" is an interesting book.
The mouse and child in question are, in fact, mechanical toy mice.
The story follows their adventures from a toy shop to being bought and discarded, and everything that follows.
The toy mouse father and his son meet many interesting characters along the way, some who want to use them and some who want to help them.
Their adventures and conversations cover a number of sociocultural issues and reminded me a bit of both "Animal Farm" and "Watership Down," although this book is much less political in theme.
As strange and disturbing as one expects from the pen of Hoban.
This is closer to Riddley Walker, Expanded Edition than to Frances, for certain.
It's deeply symbolic and I think that it would reward any number of readings.
I don't know that I've got the fortitude to read it again, however, no matter how rewarding it would be.The characters are unbelievably complex, the situations thorny and portentous, the plot sometimes hard to winkle out of the beautiful prose.
I loved the snapping turtle with all my heart and found the Child realistically whiny on occasion.It's a book I'll be thinking about for a long time.
Fantasy of the EB White type but with a more malevolent road for the central characters to follow than Stuart Little had.
A clockwork mouse who dances holding his little son is damaged by accident and thrown away.
Retrieved from the trash by a tramp who does jury-rigged repair on them, the duo out on a dangerous journey to find someone who can repair them fully.
This is the Russell Hoban who wrote the books about Frances the badger.
Compared to The Velveteen Rabbit, another book about talking toys, this is a greater adventure.
The rabbit is rather passive; the clockwork mouse is heroic, making a journey with his wounded child.
3.5 stars --- Of all the films that had a formative effect on me growing up, and The Mouse and His Child ranks near the top.
For years I couldn't remember the title, but images such as the dog food can "infinity" scene and the captive pink elephant remained lodged in my brain."The Mouse and His Child" is a dark story.
I finally became aware of the book the movie was based upon, and it too, is a decidedly dark piece of children's fiction.
I wonder if perhaps the editor demanded this for the children's market.
This book is a wonderful and at times heartbreaking story.
I got it because I remembered seeing an animated movie of this when I was little.
This book has much, much more than the film, and is just beautifully written.
I think it'd be great for all ages, even though it's usually marketed for younger ages.
It's got some very weighty concepts and deep philosophical ideas, and several bits that would be entertaining to younger readers, but would make more sense to adults.
(There's a very interesting parody of Beckett's play "End Game" in one scene.) I definitely recommend it to anyone!
I read this book out loud to my son. He disliked the arbitrary deaths of animals that occur at various times, but he liked the ending. There are various parts that are a bit sophisticated for a middle-schooler, like the artsy theater company formed by crows, called the Caws of Art, and their avant-garde production, The Last Visible Dog.I enjoyed the story, and I especially appreciated that the language was rich and varied. The book made quite a contrast with the middle-school books he usually reads, where the language and concepts are never challenging.
I'm throwing in the towel on this book. I've tried and tried to get motivated to finish this story but it just isn't "grabbing" me in any way. It is a "classic" book about a wind-up toy mouse and his son joined hand in hand and discarded by their owner. While the writing is very well-done, I'm just flat out bored by it. I'm sure it is very sweet...and I'm sure the creepy rat chasing them for their parts doesn't win in the end, but I'm moving on to greener pastures...
This came in a boxed set of classic children's books. It got good reviews and sounded Christmassy, so I figured it would be fun December reading. Unfortunately, it was neither Christmassy nor enjoyable. The plot was boring! I can't imagine a child sitting through this story. I know, I know, it's full of symbolic meaning. Blah. I didn't like it.
I really had to give up on this one. I understand the ending is a happy one so tried to persevere. As I read for pleasure this was far from pleasant. I certainly can't see this as a 'children's' book. I guess I am definitely more of a 'Velveteen Rabbit' person than I am a 'Mouse and his Child' person.
One of the best books ever.
The Mouse and His Child is a marvellous story of bravery and love. The story never moves too slowly while giving plenty of beautiful descriptions. This is a treasure to share with your children.
The most beautiful book I have ever read
This children's classic is probably one of those books that readers either love wildly or find it impossible to trudge through.
There were some scenes that gave me pause and seemed somewhat familiar, but I think I probably liked it better as an adult than I would have as a child since I didn't really like sad stories when I was very young.
The story revolves around tin wind-up toys, in particular, a Mouse and his child, and what happens to them after their owners have cast them away.
I loved how the Mouse's Child kept wishing to see the seal and the elephant again and never gave up hope.
It reads as an adventure story - a wind-up toy (a father and son mouse) are purchased from a toy store, and journey through families and Christmases, until they are finally old and broken and end up in a dump where an enterprising but evil rat rebuilds wind-up toys as his personal army of laborers.
This book came into my life at an interesting time - in the midst of Trump and Brexit - when I think most of us feel like wind-up toys, victims to forces greater than ourselves and out of our control.
what a strange and disquietingly terrifying and grisly story that I wouldn't classify as a children's book, unless your mission is to coach your children into a relentlessly pessimistic and brutal view of life as early as possible.the mouse and his child are looking for their 'territory' or place in a world that is essentially an attempt to life in a land of terrors without any social safety nets, in miniature.
There are the broken lives of broken toys in the literal pits of the dumpster, under the roof of a cruel slaver.
