https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/9736930-before-i-go-to-sleep
“What are we, if not an accumulation of our memories?”  I've had my eye on this book since before it was released and last night I decided it was finally time. I really wanted a psychological thriller that would keep me guessing. And did it deliver? Well, let's just say I was up until 2am, partly because this book is unputdownable, and partly because it's a little hard to turn the light off and go to sleep afterwards.Before I Go to Sleep is about a woman called Christine who wakes up every morn
Well, let's just say I was up until 2am, partly because this book is unputdownable, and partly because it's a little hard to turn the light off and go to sleep afterwards.Before I Go to Sleep is about a woman called Christine who wakes up every morning with no memory of who she is.
I like this much more.The biggest complaints from people who didn't like this book are a) it is as realistic as The Time Traveler's Wife and b) it gets a little repetitive around the middle.
I'll tell you why.The book gets a little repetitive when Christine must first read her journal every day to understand everything.
I only read reviews on Goodreads after I have read a book.
I do this because after reading those reviews I wonder if I have read the same book as those reviewing it.
tell me what you thought.
I want to know what you thought of it.
I wish these people were my high school English teachers.
After that it sinks quickly with an annoying narrator, bad writing, and a predictable ending.
I used to wonder what many people get out of reading bad books.
I now know.
I now know.
They think they are good books.
Good luck.
The analytical portion of my brain wants to give this an even lower rating, but it did hold my interest, so I have to be fair.
It has a sinister edge that keeps you reading---at least until you start figuring everything out long before it's revealed.
If I listed all the laughable incongruities and convenient coincidences, I'd ruin it for people who just want an absorbing escape read.
If you're capable of turning off the eye-rolling, "hey, no way!" part of your mind, you'll probably love it.
But hey, 'gratties on the movie option.
He cannot even experience the feeling of anticipation because it would require a preexisting sense of future combined with a knowledge of the past, both of which are conspicuously absent when you have to be reminded every morning that you have amnesia to begin with.
Watson’s clichéd structure, though, leaves too much to be desired and the book simply does not live up to its potential.¹After writing this review, I came across a blog post by the author who sort of corroborates my assertion that the narrator’s form of anterograde amnesia is somewhat of a fabrication.
June 15th 2am 2011I am writing this down in my journal I must do this otherwise I fear tomorrow I might not remember anything.
Anything about the book I read today or about me or my wife, well she says she is.
I need to write this in my oh so important journal otherwise I will run through the same routine again and not recollect her or the egg.
When I wake up tomorrow I must remember on reading this journal that I have to share these thoughts and write a review.
Throughout the book, one finds out (as Christine does) that her husband is lying to her about how she got amnesia (she was attacked; he tells her it's a car accident), her son (he says they have no kids; they had a son), her best friend moving away (nope), etc etc.
I didn't quite know how that was going to work, but when Claire (her best friend) was all, "GIRL THAT AIN'T BEN", I was like, "WHAT REALLY YOU WENT THERE, YOU FUCKER????"BASICALLY, the dude Christine was having her affair with was super obsessed with her to the point of LUNATIC CRAZY and when she tried to break the whole thing off, he went BATSHIT and TRIED TO DROWN HER IN A HOTEL BATHROOM.
Sarah, you should read it and let me know what you think.
The concept, while not strictly novel (I can recall maybe half a dozen stories where amnesia like this features prominently) is utilized to great effect.
I saw the ending (I won't ruin it) coming from a mile away, only because you know with a book like this it *needs* a twist of some sort, and there was only one particular twist that made sense.
Even so, the ending was a let down, because what should have been something emotionally laden was handled like an afterthought.
Omg! I am totally speechless. This book was amazing. It had a great plot about a woman who has amnesia and cannot remember her memories from day to day. She begins to keep a journal and remember certain events in her life. From there the book is amazing! I definitely recommend this! If you want a page turning, psychologically thrilling, fall out of your chair book - read this!!!!!!! So damn good!Side note: I've got to see the film!!!!!!!
So, the book and I were off to a good start when, on the page one, Christine wakes up confused in a strange room.
What a jerk.If you read the book expecting a mind-blowing ending, you might be disappointed.
If I had read the book without those two conditions, the rating may have dropped to three stars.You know what is coming next: my report from an event with the author!Right off the bat, Watson admitted he had not done many of these events.
He was inspired to write this book after reading an obituary about man who, after a surgery to cure his epilepsy, lost the ability to make memories.
Could. Not. Put. Down.Such an unusual perspective to come from.

I'm astounded that Before I Go to Sleep isn't one of those books that raked in 4.00 stars on average.
Adjusting them whenever I chose to alternate between books was a pain but it was still doable and worth it...
Christine is an amnesiac who is trying to relive her past.
The book begins slowly and the tension escalates slowly.Christine is not alone.
The book's chapters are from multiple times.
I thought this format was in itself overplayed in books, but it didn't annoy me enough to dock one star from my rating of the book.
I recommend this book heartily.
DO NOT TRUST BEN, but OMG who to trust?BEFORE I GO TO SLEEP begins with a daily existence of the creepy unknown and continues with amazing suspense each day throughout the entire story as amnesiac Christine unravels the mystery of her past.As bits and pieces of her memories unfold, the shocking truth and terrifying moments of "the accident" come together to disclose a great twist within a unique storyline.A bit far-fetched here and there, but who cares..........super entertaining! Could Not Put It Down!
Read for Book Riot's 2017 Read Harder Challenge: #2 Read a Debut NovelI feel like this book would be a great introduction to the thriller genre for somebody who hasn't read any yet, but now that I've read a few great thrillers, this didn't quite live up to the hype.
The general plot for this book is super interesting, but in execution it was a bit weak, and not nearly as suspenseful as I was hoping it would be.
Not that that's a bad thing, but I was hoping for more suspense.
Before I go to sleep, S.J. Watson (Steven J.)Before I Go to Sleep is the first novel by S.
J. Watson published in Spring 2011.
She wakes up every day with no knowledge of who she is and the novel follows her as she tries to reconstruct her memories from a journal she has been keeping.
As her journal grows it casts doubts on the truth behind this knowledge as she determines to discover who she really is.تاریخ نخستین خوانش: روز ششم ماه نوامبر سال 2016 میلادیعنوان: پیش از آن که بخوابم؛ اثر: استیون ج.

He becomes your only sense of belonging by gently, lovingly explaining everything, as much as he seems able, each and every day.A Dr. calls, on a phone you did not even know you had and convinces you to see him in an effort to try and remember something, anything.
You begin to remember snatches of things past, some of them link you to Ben, your husband.
Not little things either, but huge, life changing events.This is Christine’s story.
Full of every day, common, relatable events that slowly begin to unravel the real truth of Christine’s life.

I really enjoyed the whole premise of this story: the memory loss with the lead character having, effectively, a clean slate every day.
It put me in mind of another book with a similar slant - The Housekeeper + the Professor by Yoko Ogawa - only this tale is much darker and the Ogawa book doesn't set out to be a mystery thriller.I think the characterisation is flawless and the story is told brilliantly.
Ok, I did start to work out where it was leading towards the end, but this didn't prevent me from burning the midnight oil to get there.
From the very first sentence of the book I virtually became the protagonist, an amnesiac struggling to figure out who and where I am and why I'm in bed with this older man in a home I don't recognize and then when I look in the mirror, I barely recognize my reflection: this older woman with wrinkles and body starting to sag a little bit, naked and blank both mentally and physically, totally lost and scared and befuddled.
She has to relearn everything about her past, every single day – before she goes to sleep and does it all over again tomorrow.Christine has a very specific type of amnesia: every day she wakes up not knowing who the man sleeping next to her is.
She has to relearn everything about her past, every single day – before she goes to sleep and does it all over again tomorrow.Imagine reading hundreds of pages written in a dull prose style with little variation to the story.
This book is like that, only creepier and more depressing.Imagine waking up every morning and not knowing the person sleeping beside you.
Imagine looking in a mirror every morning and not recognizing your own face because you're 20 years older than the last memory of yourself.
Imagine not trusting the person claiming to be your husband.
Imagine not trusting your own thoughts, your own beliefs, yourself.I loved this book.
She had a nice family, an awesome husband, a wonderful child and all of her troubles started because she couldn't find the inspiration for her next novel?And don't get me started on "Ben".I hate needy people.
Every day Christine wakes up not knowing where she is, how she got there, and why she seems to have a body of a middle aged woman, when she vaguely remembers being in her early twenties before she went to bed.
Otherwise I’d soon end up spending all my days reading about my past and what I had for dinner, and what the weather was like and what I was wearing.
Waking up in a body that’s decades older than you remember your body to be is pretty much waking up in somebody else’s body – having that happen to you once might undo you, I can’t even imagine having that happen every single day.
عااااا این دیگه چی بود!
=)))خیلی پیچیده بود!
ینی، تا صد صفحه اولش میگی بدک نیس، صد صفحه دومش خوبه، صد صفحه سوم عااااالیه، صد صفحه آخر خوبه و خیلی افت و خیز داره.
کل ایده رو دوست داشتم، خصوصاً که داستان روانشناسانهای بود.
تعلیقش معرکه ست، هی میخوای بذاری زمین نمیشه.
اینقد تو شک و یقین دست و پا میزنی و اونقد نشونههای ضد و نقیض وجود داره و اینقد هی نویسنده کلی آس داره واسه روو کردن که میترسی زمین بذاری و شب بگیری بخوابی و یادت بره.
:)) ولی کاش شخصیتپردازیها پررنگتر بود.
نویسنده خیلی با زرنگی و هوشم
بعد این زن ِ بدبخت این‌همه کتک خورد و اینا، چرا فقط ترقوه‌ش شکست؟ :| ینی به‌هوش موندنشم خیلی هندی بود.
داشت می‌شد هپی اندی که نویسنده پایان رو باز گذاشت، چون مشخصاً می‌ترسید خیلی جریان هندی شه؛ غیرمستقیم داشت می‌گفت زنه دیگه داره کم‌کم حافظه‌ش برمی‌گرده و طوری نیست بخوابه یادش بره.
ولی اگه پایان داستان با الحاقش به‌ شوهر و پسرش تموم می‌شد، خیلی دیگه پایان فانتزی‌ای می‌شد.
و یه‌ دست مریزادم باید گفت که راوی زن بود و نویسنده مرد!
یکی از مشکلات داستان اینه که به نظرم زنه خیلی دیر فهمید.
Before I Go to Sleep tells the story of Christine Lucas, who is trying to piece back her life after suffering an accident that has caused her to have anterograde amnesia.
Chrissy can remember everything that happens to her during the day but as soon as she goes into a deep sleep, her brain goes into delete mode; resulting in Christine waking up next to a stranger.
This book is chilling; watching Christine write in her journal trying to piece together, everything she has missed in her life.
As was really impressed by this book and while have to listen to my friend in the future when it comes to book recommendations.
Buddy Read with MurugeshThis story is of Christine, who suffers from a special kind of amnesic disease where when she goes into deep sleep, she forgets everything about herself and each day is like living a new life. She is completely dependent on her husband Ben, to remind her of what her life is like, who she is, where she lives, what she does..... "I feel like a prospective tenant being shown around a new flat." This whole set-up reminded me of the movie 50 first dates but something that was
Buddy Read with MurugeshThis story is of Christine, who suffers from a special kind of amnesic disease where when she goes into deep sleep, she forgets everything about herself and each day is like living a new life.
She is completely dependent on her husband Ben, to remind her of what her life is like, who she is, where she lives, what she does.....
What would it be like to suddenly get up one fine day and know that you are no more in your twenties but life has passed you by and you are now in your late forties.
The mind is an intricate thing, fragile, open to suggestion.
An inkling, a feeling, just a hint of familiarity, can have you going in circles.
She's not going to remember the next day anyway.
(view spoiler)[My only quibble is with the ending, and that is nothing but my own preference for darker conclusions.
(hide spoiler)] Other than that, I was absolutely riveted, couldn't read it fast enough.
Oh, and I completely agree with other reviewers who have mentioned the movie Memento and how it came to mind while reading this.
If you lose your memory about people and events, then you lose yourself and you become the dupe for any and every scurrilous schemer because how can you tell who your friends are if you don't even remember them?
And so it is for Christine who remembers only what she is told that day but can use a diary to remind herself of what she had remembered the day before.
If you don't work out the ending, which isn't original but appropriate, then it's a really good read, if you do, well, it's still an ok one.Three and a half stars rounded down, just not good enough for four.
I guessed the big twist fairly swiftly, then thought I'd got it wrong, and then it turned out my first guess was right.
The minute he starts talking about her being in a coffee shop, and how he scrutinised what she was eating and tried to figure out the "rules", the ending was obvious.
They're not going to rape you and try to kill you, then steal you from your care home and lie to you.
Most mentally ill people are perfectly normal people.
In fact, mentally ill people are at a higher risk of being victims of violence, not perpetrators.
There were just too many things that had to conveniently fall into place in order to make this story work up to the climax and then the ending was far too neat for reality.
There are a handful of things that feel like puzzle pieces forced to fit in order to make this story work and in the end it just wasn't that clever or well thought out.
If you are looking for a clever nail-biter, edge of your seat type of book I recommend Lisa Unger's 'Beautiful Lies' and the follow up story 'Sliver of Truth'.
