https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/556673.The_Wolfman_and_Other_Cases
The Ratman is a queasy affair - in the best way - that will place you, especially if like me you have a history of OCD, in a well-protected but inadequate fetal position; its one weakness is its reliance on a too-familiar Freudian analysis trope.
Then comes the epilogue, a sideways summation in the form of an English literature critical analysis of Shakespeare and Ibsen - quite enjoyable.Preceding this comes an introduction by Gillian Beer, which is too much a summation of the main text but which redeems itself in its last ten pages.

Definitely interesting, if for no other reason than seeing Freud's incredible hubris in action is something else.Would have loved more case-history, less "this is why i'm right, see!!!!" and/or a bit of background to help unravel Freud's self-love (not THAT variety, though he'd be happy to discuss it with you...)
This book was a horrible, disgusting experience that I could not put down. Very interesting, almost addictive, but absolute disgust at any moment. The case studies were so based on the relationship between inherent sexual tendencies of man and dreams, which Freud believed contained "latent content". Would recommend this to anyone interested in either Freud himself, or for a class talking about Freudian ideas and dream theory.
2.5/5.An interesting and thought-provoking book, but unfortunately that wasn't enough supersede my dislike of it and how angry it made me sometimes with his conclusions--I just really don't agree with Freud at all, no matter how fascinating it is to follow his logic. Still, I'm glad I read it! I can now feel like I read a substantial amount of Freud and can cross it off my list.
I thought Freud was full of shit by spending so much time talking about how psychoanalysis could cure constipation, but I spoke about it with my therapist and she said it was legit... I'm still skeptical, but there you go. If you're a bit constipated, get 'in conversation with your anus' and, according to Freud, your problem will be solved.
My interest and understanding seemed to go down as the page numbers ticked up in this book.
Either I don't know enough about psychoanalysis and Freud's theories or he makes some ambitious leaps analytically bolstered by the confidence of hindsight.
What at first appeared somewhat logical became belaboringly muddled and complicated to me in most of his case notes.
Does one take much more from these cases other than repression may lead to neuroses which manifest in wonderfully convoluted, tangential streams of sublimated symbolism and inappropriate behaviors?
Perhaps I was hoping for more of his theory.
This book will make you understand why Freud was and still is a controversial figure in Psychology. I found this book shed light on how Freud formed some of his wacky theories on personality development. Unfortunately, he failed to test his own personality development theory enough and the theory is now considered invalid. Never the less, the cases described in the book are still entertaining to say the least. By the end I felt like I had read a dirty comic book.
Love him or hate him, you have to admit: Freud was an interesting cat. And damned if he didn't meet some interesting people on his journeys through the subconscious. This is like a travelogue of some of his most curious encounters. I wrote a paper for a Bert Cohler class about "Phobia in a Five-Year-Old-Boy" (pp. 1-122) and Bruno Bettelheim's The Uses of Enchantmentcalled "Bedtime for Little Hans".Well, I thought it was funny.
Wonderful stuff. A great demonstration of Freud's method in action, and skilfully written. It reads more like Gothic Horror than science. But then, these days it's best to view Freud in literary terms rather than scientific - after all, isn't psychoanalysis best seen as a way of telling stories about our own minds?
read this famous "history of an infantile neurosis" in v.17 of the standard edition of the complete psychological works of SF along with a handful of shorter works including "the 'uncanny'" (essay on aesthetics), "a child is being beaten" (essay on masochism) and an interesting essay that analyzes an episode from goethe's "dichtung und wahrheit"
Whatever else you say about Freud, he's usually an interesting writer and that's certainly true here as he describes the cases of three patients that he treated. The way in which he applies his theories to the patient's symptoms is fascinating, though it sometimes seems a bit of a stretch.
the wolf man was a fag
Nietzsche lite.
i read 100 straight pages about dicks!!! i think freud was projecting his own nascent homosexuality onto his diagnosis of the patient
