https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2737457-the-golden-scorpion
I tip my hat to the fine folks at Project Gutenberg: virtually every title I have or will be reading in the near future comes from them.The Golden Scorpion is a novel that starts two investigators from opposite sides of the English Channel; Detective Inspector Dunbar of Scotland Yard and Gaston Max of the Paris Police force.
Yikes that’s a criminal mistake.)In this story, several leading scientific men have been dying, and the timing and coincidence makes Scotland Yard suspect foul play even though all of the deaths appear to be natural.
The Golden Scorpion by Sax Rohmer is one of many "Yellow Peril"-type adventure/mystery stories from the early 20th Century.
Trading heavily on Western fears and the "mysteries of the Orient," super-villains from the East like Rohmer's Dr. Fu Manchu and the titular Scorpion of this story were presented as evil Chinese master criminals out to destroy Western Civilization.
It is obvious that Scotland Yard and the master detective from France (who have joined forces in this story) should look for the villain among the inhabitants of the Chinatown area of London.
It's a shame that people get hung up on the racism in this book as it's a thumping good read. Guys you need to remember that this is of its time and therefore will use language and mores of its time.If you take that into consideration there are some really high-concept ideas in there and the Gaston Max section of the book is worthy of the read in itself. Miska is an almost well-rounded character and excellent avatar for the nascent women's emancipation movement at that time
An old mystery novel that is certainly the product of it's time. Unfortunately, that includes a fair bit of racism in the story (despite the fact even the characters refute that this is a "Yellow Peril" story). If can get past the old writing style and all that comes with it, it isn't a bad read. My only real complaint is that the final act seemed rather rushed, and the ending is, in a word, abrupt. I flipped the page expecting to see a little more, only to find that it was the last page.
Like most of his works, it pulls you right in and is a fun ride. It's pretty much a Fu Manchu story, without directly involving that character. I found that a little disappointing, because I was hoping for something different, like Brood of the Witch King(Clearly they're set in the same Fu Manchuniverse, but I was not aware of that when I grabbed the e-book)However, if you enjoy the formula of the Fu Manchu books, you'll enjoy The Golden Scorpion.
This book is not only a sequel to "The Yellow Claw" featuring again French detective Gaston Max and Inspector Dunbar of Scotland Yard, but also fits into the Fu Manchu sequence between "The Hand of Fu Manchu" and "The daughter of Fu Manchu" Fu Manchu himself briefly appears but is unnamed. One of Rohmer's best, the delightfully far-fetched story never flags.
Max was working on a case involving a man called "The Scorpion", and Dunbar has brought a piece of Eastern jewelry which Stuart identifies as part of a scorpion's tale.
He is also nearly killed by a laser.Gaston Max, less dead than he first appeared, shows up and tells the entire story over again from a different point of view.
He reveals that a hooded man known only as "The Scorpion" is running a huge opium ring, that a beautiful exotic woman is involved, and they are complicit in the death of a foreign diplomat, among others.
Again, tough to star this effectively. A thrilling adventure tale full of cliffhanging suspense and good old fashioned racism. Lots of "mystery of the Orient" stuff, and a mysterious Chinese villain--we know he's evil, 'cause he's a "Chinaman"! Ugh. Finally, someone survives a rather severe blow to the head, and another character remarks, "you must have a skull like a Negro!" So it's that kind of book. Probably not worth reading in this day and age.
Three stars is probably a bit generous for this book as it is basically the same story as The Yellow Claw (which I reviewed earlier) with just a few changes. Not a bad page turner but with a rather abrupt and unsatisfactory ending.
Classic mystery featuring the author's usual characters - amateur sleuth, Scotland Yard man, oriental villain involved in a fiendish plot to take on the world, and an exotic beauty.
The middle part, where Gaston Max takes center stage, is the best section of the novel.For more adventure reviews, see http://www.skjam.com/tag/adventure/
Wow, this was a really really bad book. Yet I read it anyway....
A magnificent adventure, capturing elements of the orient, mingled with science, with evil, with torture, with passion... I enjoyed this...
dread some time in spring 1969
I do love a good Sax Rohmer novel!
