https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/28457.First_Love_and_Other_Stories
A really great collection. I love Turgenev's writing and can't wait to read more by him.
This is a very nice collection of short stories and a couple of novella length stories. Here are my ratings:The diary of a superfluous man - 2.5Mumu - 5Asya - 5First love - 4 (read in 2011)King Lear of the steppes - 5The song of triumphant love - 3.5 (a touch of the Arabian Nights)Mumu and Asya were the best in the collection.
I hereby announce myself in love with Russian authors 😊
Absolutely superb stories! So good that I don't know which one would be my favourite. As it says on the back of the book, 'psychologically acute, subtly and sometimes bitterly comic, these six stories all display the elegance and ironic clarity of Turgenev's finest writing.'Next on the list, Father and Sons.
'The Diary of a Superfluous Man' sets the tone for classic Turgenev, whose stories and novels are so often about unrequited or disappointed love.
Commentary about loneliness and alienation, it is about a deaf and dumb servant and his dog.'Asya' has a wonderful, wild and hurried atmosphere, like blackberries.'First Love' is more mature, like a ripe peach or mandarin but still a rich fruit.
'The Song of Triumphant Love' – Another beautiful artifice about difficult love and heavily symbolic, this time exotic and perfumed with an Italianate setting, a mysterious Malay servant, strange dreams, music and riches from travel.
youth!
youth!
you have no concerns, you possess, as it were, all the treasures of the universe, even grief is a comfort to you, even sadness suits your looks, you are self-assured and bold, you say: 'Look, I'm the only one alive!' while the very days of your life run away and vanish without trace and without number and everything in you disappears like wax, like snow in the heat of the sun...
I absolutely adored all of these stories. Sadly the last story was never finished so I couldn't give a full 5 stars. If you love Russian classic literature read this.
I bought this back in January of 1980, which would have been during my final semester of undergraduate. I remember reading it and thinking these are some of the saddest stories I've ever read. 37 years later, still really sad. Great, descriptive writing with memorable, but sad stories. Not for everyone.
Turgenev likes to tell us how a person's character will change in the future: in a future not covered by the story- perhaps as a device to further character development?
We can only assume that he lost it, and became this other person; this person we really don't get to know.My favourite quote of "First Love" is: "...and perhaps the whole secret of your enchantment lies not, indeed, in your power to do whatever you may will, but in your power to think that there is nothing you will not do".
At age sixteen while living in the country, Vladimir meets 21 year-old Zinaida Alexandrovna Zasyekina, the daughter of a titled but very poor family living on the adjoining property.
At one point, she even asks Vladimir to look after her twelve-year-old brother, emphasizing the their age difference and that Vladimir is still just a boy.
On these occasions his heart swells and there is no joy greater than the joy felt by a young man in love for the first time.
There is also no sadness greater than the sadness brought on by unrequited love.
انهيت هذا العدد من سلسلة كتابي التي قامه بترجمتها الاستاذ حلمي مراد....الترجمه كانت ممتعه وجمييله كع
Notice the theme of "short stories about love." What We Talk About When We Talk About Love. The Secret Lives of People In Love. First Love and Other Stories. Did somebody just get dumped? ... The answer is yes. Yes I did.
3.0 - 3.5 / 5 starsI didn't enjoy all these stories but they all offered something different.The Diary of a Superfluous Man: 3.5/5Mumu: 3/5Asya: low 3/5First Love: 4/5King Lear of the Steppes: low 3/5The Song of Triumphant Love: 4/5
First Love and Other Storiesby Ivan Turgenevtranslated by Isaiah BerlinFirst included in Everyman’s Library in 1994 Published by David Campbell Publisher UKISBN 1-85715-191-7Ivan Turgenev one of the greatest writers of our time, wrote several novellas of which First Love was published in 1860, Spring Torrents in 1872 and the essay A Fire at Sea in 1883.
First Love and Spring Torrents are considered two of the world’s highly renowned love stories.
On his way home to Russia from a sojourn in Italy, Sanin takes a short break in Frankfurt where he enters a patisserie.
When I was but a young lad, I was more a fan of Dostoevsky and Tolstoy, but Turgenev is the one I value most as I grow older. One needs to have experienced both the wine and its (at times) bitter after effects to fully appreciate Turgenev. This is a lovely collection of stories from the Russian master. Turgenev's characters feel the full bounty of love - its debilitating physical effects, its euphoria - and they also reckon with its withdrawal and the morning after. Highly recommended, but only once you enter your thirties and forties :-)

Each of us feels most deeply convinced that he has been too prodigal of his gifts – that he has a right to cry ‘Oh, what could I not have done, if only I had not wasted my time’.Spring TorrentsIn the summer of 1840 twenty-three years old Dmitry Pavlovich Sanin was in Frankfurt on his way back to Russia from Italy.
Herr Klueber organised a trip to the neighbouring town to provide entertainment for Emma and Sanin.
Emma decided to cut here engagement to Klueber, and Sanin proposed and was accepted.In order to secure the marriage, he decided to sell his property in Russia.
If there is such thing as the Russian soul, it is definitely within these pages. This book set Turgenev in my mind as something of a third focal point to the the expansive philosophical insight of Tolstoy and the psychological dissections of Dostoyevsky.
Love Turgenev. One of the Russian greats, for sure.
I loved these stories. It's like the author and you are staying up late and he's telling you an intimate story, blow by blow, detail by detail. Just wonderful.
الحب
If this were a muscle man competition, "Spring Torrents" would beat out the title story as a matter of sheer bulk, while the last story would have no choice but to quiver in his chair at the back of the stage, hoping beyond hope that no one sits on him.The first two are thematically very similar: two tales of thwarted love, so obviously and painfully drawn from the author's own experience.
Though I am still very new to his writing, I have reached a conclusion: this is Turgenev and I love him for it.He was so preoccupied with this kind of tale, his novel Fathers and Sons, really a novel of the generational gap, politics, philosophy and everything manly, found its way to a love story right quick!
This collection of short stories is laid out in chronological order.
In my opinion, each subsequent story is better than the previous ones.
The introduction (2 stars) is misplaced; it really should be an afterword, or broken into afterwords for each story.
Unless you are already familiar with the short stories, most of the introduction makes little sense without a frame of reference.
For better or for worse, I found myself transported back to the days of my own unrequited loves.
However, I found reading the stories in succession to be a little repetitive.
"King Lear of the Steppes" (4.5 stars) is the best story in my opinion.
In this book there are many characters, the main ones that the book focuses on more are Princess Zinaïada and Voldemar, I believe they share an absolute beautify love, it was kinda like love at first sight.
It starts with and absolute loving story that makes you kinda realize that love back than was not as easy as today, which is very sad and heartbreaking knowing how parents thought back than or how princesses had boundaries.
Now just wonder how hard was it to love someone that did not share the same morals of life or the same age, life for them was a disaster she and him were full of sadness but love in side that was hard to share.
This selection gathers the best of Turgenev's stories, six in all, all approaching novella length, in particular Mumu, Asya and First Love.
"Mumu" is simply the best fictional criticism of serfism ever written.
"Asya", like "First Love", is a bittersweet and psychologically astute recollection of an adolescent love.
Freeborn's translations are expertly done and do enough to suggest Turgenev's lyrical style at its best.The finest of Turgenev may be found in his country comedy drama A Month in the Country, his novels Fathers and Children and Spring Torrents, and half a dozen of his finer short stories.
The first is a mostly tedious but sometimes funny "Notes from the Underground"- type piece, "Diary of a Superfluous Man." The last, "The Song of Triumphant Love," is a fantastic mytho-horror story, more like Poe than anything Russian.
What seems consistent is a facility with landscape description, welcome breaks from (and elegant echoes of) the "first love" goings-on, which can feel a bit hysterical at times.
I wouldn't recommend this edition of the book, by the way, as for some reason the pages became warped after their first day out of the package, and our apartment in Vermont is not the least bit humid in January!
This is a set of short stories, written by a Russian author in the last half of the nineteenth century.
The themes of the stories, for the most part, concern loss of love or missed opportunities for love and happiness.
The best tales are perhaps "Assya", "First Love" and "Clara Milich", all of which concern a first and lost love.
"Mumu" is also a striking story about a servant treated poorly.
"Mumu" rings particularly true and like many of the stories it is reportedly based on a true story.In a different vein, there is the charming story "The Singers" sketching a vignette of a singing contest at a Russian pub.

Turgenev, Ivan. LOVE AND DEATH. (1850-1870). ****. This is a collection of stories by this noted Russian author that reflect the title of the book. Turgenev was unsurpassed in describing and developing his characters, and these pieces are of sufficient length for him to show off his talent. The taled included in this Folio Society edition include:- The Diary of a Superfluous Man- Mumu: this one will keep you sad for days- Asya: Probably one of his best efforts- First Love- King Lear of the Step
Turgenev, Ivan.
Turgenev was unsurpassed in describing and developing his characters, and these pieces are of sufficient length for him to show off his talent.
The taled included in this Folio Society edition include:-	The Diary of a Superfluous Man-	Mumu: this one will keep you sad for days-	Asya: Probably one of his best efforts-	First Love-	King Lear of the Steppes-	The Song of Triumphant LoveReviewing each story would turn this into a multi-page review.
the best I can do is recommend you seek out this collection and savor it.
This was an ebook and only "First Love."  Magnificent short story. The form was perfect, the characters elegantly foiled. I savor this story as I would a long, beloved novel. I will remember young Vladimir because he is so sincere and romantic. And the ending is expected, of course this was his first love, it would be unfulfilled, and yet it ends with a bang. A shock to the reader, and then an aha moment. I love literature that leaves you thinking philosophically about life. Bravo I look forward to even more Turgenev.
