https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/4143.Barrel_Fever
Find all of my reviews at: http://52bookminimum.blogspot.com/This summer the bridge that makes my commute easy breezy and beautiful like a Cover Girl commercial is undergoing construction which has resulted in a Kelly that pretty much looks like this while trying to make her way into the city . . . . .  I decided for my own mental health maybe I should try an audio book, and what better person to choose than my beloved David. What can I say????? Barrel Fever proved that I am most definitely an “
Find all of my reviews at: http://52bookminimum.blogspot.com/This summer the bridge that makes my commute easy breezy and beautiful like a Cover Girl commercial is undergoing construction which has resulted in a Kelly that pretty much looks like this while trying to make her way into the city .
I decided for my own mental health maybe I should try an audio book, and what better person to choose than my beloved David.
Barrel Fever proved that I am most definitely an “essays” rather than a “stories” type of gal and earns a paltry 3 Stars due to that fact.
Happy commuting, everyone : )
This is not my favorite book of David's, but this had moments that cracked me up.
My second favorite story was about his youngest brother who is a foul mouth with a high pitched voice.
The best part is he even says that to his dad.
That story was hilarious.
The first few stories were the best and I didn't think the stories at the end produced the same tickle effect.Still, I had fun reading these stories.
David is quite witty.
Another "bestseller" from the humorist; I bought this in blind faith only because it was a Sedaris. However, I admit I was a tad disappointed. In some of the essays, it felt like he was trying too hard to be funny; the stories seemed to lack the punch found in "Naked," "Me Talk Pretty One Day," or "Holidays on Ice."If you must read this, borrow it from a library or buy it used. It works well as a paper-weight.


Che immane fatica!Sì alla fine ci sono arrivata: ma che fatica!Chi ti ha obbligata (potreste chiedermi)?Un obbligo con me stessa dato che ho accettato di giocare al gioco “adotta un autore”.
Guarda che ...fortunella sono che la ruota della fortuna mi fa adottare tale Sedaris mai sentito nominare.Dato che difficilmente mi tiro indietro (capatosta!!!) .....eccomi, e questo è anche il secondo libro che leggo!Per tutta la lettura mi sono immaginata una di quelle scene da (tele)film americano dove il protagonista si posiziona davanti ad un pubblico annoiato in un bar di periferia e cerca di "scaldarlo" con battute a raffica.
"Barrel Fever" is a collection of short stories and essays, and for a debut collection it was not bad.
None of the stories are bad, but they're not amazingly great either; however, I found the four essays that conclude this book much more engaging than the short stories that take up the majority of the book.
The story "Season's Greetings to Our Friends and Family!!!" and the essay "SantaLand Diaries" completely save the collection.
After reading Sedaris's much better written (and funnier) Me Talk Pretty One Day earlier this year, his debut book of stories and essays is disappointing.
The short stories, in particular, are uneven, many of them contrived, failed attempts at being whimsical, absurd or shocking.
I guess he's just not very good at making stuff up.The one gem is the final piece, the now famous SantaLand Diaries, chronicling his experiences as a 33-year-old working as an elf at Macy's elaborate holiday display.
The tone is witty and self-deprecating, the pacing immaculate, the observations detailed, vivid and pee-your-pants (um, like one of the SantaLand visitors) hilarious.I only wish the rest of the book had been this good.
I loved Me Talk Pretty One Day, but Barrel Fever was painful.
The audiobook is read by the author with a few vocal appearances from his sister, Amy Sedaris....
I guess I was just expecting more from them than a tangled mess of sub par short stories - all of which seem to feature the same narcissistic, celebrity obsessed, accident prone, substance abusing, deadbeat narrator who happens to be gay.
It's like a terrible version of Curb Your Enthusiam...in which the narrator is plugged into ridiculous and awkward scenarios and the character developement stops somewhere between hopeless dejection and bitterness.
Stay away.
Run Away.
Of course this book is nothing like "Me Talk Pretty One Day"--it's Sedaris' first novel and has very little of his own memoirs inside the cover.
Authors are allowed to grow and better themselves and change their style as the years pass, so let's all just take a moment to take this book for what it is: a first printing of short stories written by a man who later becomes a great speaker and autobiographer.
If you're not a fan of the pretty, filthy world that Waters has the upper hand on, you won't like the words written in these pages.
E' il secondo che leggo, di suo, e credo che Sedaris si meriti un posto tra gli autori da seguire con più attenzione.E' umorismo americano ben fatto e soprattutto ha la capacità di passare da uno stile all'altro, da uno stereotipo o un linguaggio a un altro, mantenendo una buona qualità del racconto.Ripeto quanto già detto altrove: trovo che negli ultimi anni ci sia stata una bulimia editoriale.
Noto che mi sto indirizzando sempre più spesso sui racconti, le novelle, i romanzi brevi.
I racconti di Sedaris ci riescono, anche se qualche volte l'americanità è troppo forte, troppo sboccata.
Sedaris non è uno scrittore umoristico nel senso più stretto della definizione e chi si rapportasse ai suoi libri animato da simili aspettative resterebbe senz’altro deluso.
Infatti le storie che racconta sono spesso spaccati di vita quotidiana, esperienze vissute o del tutto inventate che non hanno nulla di eccezionale o di insolito, tranne il modo in cui vengono presentate.
È il suo tratto scarno, incisivo e graffiante nel caratterizzare i fatti e i personaggi a risultare umoristico, ma di un umorismo fine e intelligente che non trova riscontro in nessun altro scrittore a me noto.
Definitely Sedaris' worst book.
The stories are occasionally interesting and hilarious, but are, more often than not, half baked ideas with a little bit of angst-ridden humor that just doesn't work for the most part.
The essays, on the other hand, are were Sedaris succeeds.
The way that Sedaris sees life is staggeringly original and thought provoking and it's no wonder his later books have been so popular and sold so well.
It is a shame that his fiction does not benefit from his ability to see things in his life with such compassion and humor, and fall into 2D sketches.
Tre stelle stiracchiatissime.Si tratta di una raccolta di racconti probabilmente parzialmente autobiografici, che tra loro non hanno nessun tipo di connessione logica o cronologica.I primi brevi capitoli sono veramente sconclusionati, piccoli aneddoti dimenticabili. Pian piano i racconti si allungano e prendono un minimo di corpo.Il tutto più che ironico è molto agrodolce, con venature di autentico cattivo gusto."Il tarlo del teatro" e "Nudo" sono i brani che mi sono piaciuti e hanno arrotondato le stelline.
Just not this brand of dark.I think perhaps that my issue is that I like his essays much more than his short stories.
It's one reason why I'm glad that so far this is the only book I've read by him that isn't completely essays.Would I recommend this author?
There are, however, much better books out there by Sedaris, like Naked and When You Are Engulfed in Flames, both of which I highly recommend.I give Barrel Fever 3 out of 5 stars but it only gets that many because the essays are great.
A collection of short fiction pieces – parodies, flights of fancy bordering on the absurd, and the blackest of black-humor riffs on dysfunctional families – followed by Sedaris’ debut and best-known memoir, “SantaLand Diaries,” and a few other humorous essays.As a great fan of Sedaris, I’ve read all of his work, and enjoyed this book the least.
“SantaLand Diaries,” which I’ve heard before, was fantastic, and the other essays, about smoking, being an apartment cleaner in New York, and writing for a kink magazine, were good as well, but they did not make up for the sour taste the stories left.
Il primo libro di Sedaris che io abbia letto, e rischia di restare l'unico. Questo racconto semi-autobiografico a singhiozzo, nonostante alcuni momenti resi godibili dall'acuto spirito di osservazione dell'autore, mi ha talvolta irritato ma più spesso annoiato. Può darsi benissimo che io non capisca il suo senso dell'umorismo, sempre che a infastidirmi non sia stato invece il gigantesco e sfacciato egocentrismo di cui mi pare dia prova il narratore, e che solo a tratti viene interrotto da benvenuti ma troppo rari momenti di autoironia.
Sedaris' first book and it shows. I am glad that he switched to the autobiographical stories and left the straight up fiction behind. reads like a john waters film, but could be better. i'd say this book is for sedaris completists and that others should just stick w/Naked. Very weak. Just go ahead and read the later books.
Please see my review at Amazon.com:  Grace's Barrel Fever ReviewTerrible, terrible book. With the sole exception of Santaland Diaries, this was a waste of time and paper. Borrow it from the library, commit Santaland Diaries to memory, and ignore the rest.
As I recalled from reading the print version several years ago, the personal stories are best. The fictional essays are decent, too, but not quite as entertaining. On audio, it’s still a “pick,” though. I love Sedaris!
For the record, a long haired cat is one thing, but a big white Persian/Himalayan blend named 'Pitty Ting' is something else altogether...""At one point, I told the cat to shut up, and out of the corner of my eye I saw Mike raise his fist.
I'm no stranger to a flaring temper, but after he hit me, I got out of the car and just walked away.
He got out of the car and started begging, on his hand and knees, whimpering his remorse.
"Sedaris is outrageously funny in this collection of short, unbelievably fictional stories.
Perhaps the issue is my knowledge of current David Sedaris and his rather clever and almost sometimes bordering on cutesy humor, as opposed to this incredibly dark, poking fun at completely horrible people type of thing.That being said, I did really enjoy Seasons Greetings, one of the short stories in the collection.
It did a lot of the same as the rest of the short stories, but did so in a way that was actually a brilliant look into a specific type of terrible person that really felt as though it were crafting a full picture, as opposed to just showcasing those self-serving folks.However, the true highlight of this collection, the story that actually put Sedaris on the map, is The SantaLand Diaries.
First, a disclaimer: I listened mostly to the audiobook which, upon closer inspection is titled "Barrel Fever: and Other Stories," not the subtitle from the print version (Stories and Essays), even though the cover art is the same.
Just like his stories in H.O. I., those in Barrel Fever largely rely on the hilarity of suicide and homicide to entertain and amuse you.
I was about to come to the conclusion that Sedaris just can't do anything other than memoir when I read the title story, "Barrel Fever." It turns out to be one of my favorite stories by him ever--and it's fiction.
As far as I know, all subsequent Sedaris books are essay collections.
The difference between the fiction and the essays is night and day.
I found the fiction to be just *too* disturbing.
My favorite entry in this book is the essay "Diary of a Smoker" - I thought it was very funny.
In real life Sedaris is an avowed anti-non-smoker, he has said that's one of the reasons he left New York City for France where he now lives.
In my opinion, this book is *leagues* away from my favorite "Me Talk Pretty One Day" and I would recommend it, warily, only to Sedaris fans.
Lately I've been listening to more audiobooks but I can really only stand to listen to books that are 5-6 discs or less (I get kind of impatient if they take too long, unless there's a really good narrator).
David Sedaris, reading his own work with a little help from his sister Amy Sedaris, is a great narrator.
I loved the short story read by Amy in which the narrator has written a long letter to be read at her funeral in which she ultimately encourages everyone to throw stones at and kill the ex-boyfriend who cheated on her.
Rating 2.56 but can't do half stars. Average based on all stories. Not all were that great but there were some gems. Santaland was by far the best but I had read it in another collection by him.
After reading some books that had little to no comedic value to them whatsoever, I thought it'd mix it up a bit with a work from a comedian that I found to be funny in the past, David Sedaris.
Sedaris' style and prose is so perfect for the stuff he's creating and writing about, it feels like the characters in the book are actually real.
Instead of saying a cliche a second time to emphasize it, people should just say something original once if they really want to grab their listener's attention.He also calls out my favorite pet peeve, people who refer to themselves as crazy.
"I am wearing two different socks, I'm so crazy!" "I've got a pet iguana, look at me!
My favorite line was, "I couldn't tell where the retards stopped and the regular New Yorkers began." Although it's an overstatement, it goes to show just how much fodder that city provides for an aspiring writer working at minimum wage.
Many hilarious moments - the rare laugh out loud event occurred a few times in the car, especially his depiction of his brother Rooster with sister Amy in You Can't Kill the Rooster essay:My brother politely ma'ams and sirs all strangers but refers to friends and family his father included, as either "bitch" or "motherfucker." Friends are appalled at the way he speaks to his only remaining parent.
We'll get through this shit, motherfucker, just you wait." His brother's dialog is spoken by Amy in the audiobook and it is hilarious.
Where as "Pretty" contains mostly true stories about Sedaris's life, the first section of Barrel Fever (and the largest chunk of the book) was made up of fictional essays.
It's clear that the earlier Sedaris was a bit more daring and willing to go for some shock value within his writing.In fact, upon re-reading Barrel Fever, I find the true stories, which make up the second half of the book to be almost lackluster compared to the zany writing up front.
Eh, it's not likely.If you enjoy the first half of Barrel Fever, then I recommend following this book with Sedaris's "Holidays on Ice" which also contains several essays that are just...
