https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/9420.Shopaholic_Baby
That was precious =) ♥Mel ♥
Ahh, how times have changed.
Kinsella is still an amusing, energetic writer, but Becky really grated on my nerves this time around.
She's just so shallow and so frivolous, and while in the first few books she was also just a regular working girl, now that she's rich (thanks entirely to her husband), her insane overspending and materialism swiftly loses its charm and becomes...icky.
It can be difficult to read a whole book about someone you would probably feel uncomfortable having lunch with.So, while I still think there's a...certain charm to these books, and that they're in many ways better than a lot of chick lit, I also just don't think they're for me anymore.
Book 31/100
i seriously love how becky and suze refer to people they don't like as "cows".
even though all along you know how kind hearted, fun and well meaning becky is, i love how it comes out even more in this book.
i am a forever hopeless romantic, so i love the many becky and luke moments in this book, and i LOVE the end.
i love that becky has grown and matured, but is still the same old becky who loves to shop, and always will.
and i love that she is a mom.
I'm enjoying the Shopaholic series more and more the deeper I get.
It has finally segued from her spending addiction to the root of her problem which is poor impulse control.
And when someone has minimal self-control, we all know the messes they can get themselves into lol.
Becky's impulses always get the best of her but her happy attitude, out-of-the-box thinking, and sheer determination never fail to get her out every time.
And I absolutely loved Luke in this one.
We don't see enough of him in this series but I thoroughly enjoyed getting a few more glimpses of his character.
And so should Luke.”
I don't mean to offend you because academically you seem fine, but the general rule of intelligence is to learn from your mistakes.
Have you EVER learned from your mistakes?
People around you are aware you're spoiled and shallow and irresponsible but you just can't help yourself can you?Luke could probably do better, but he obviously loves you and that is truly what is important.
I do actually quite like your relationship - except for the secrets!
Come on!However, I do love pregnant you, and I think you'll make great mum.
Due to a lack of alternative entertainment, I read the book from cover to cover.
While the book had some funny excerpts, my extreme dislike for the main character (Becky Brandon) overshadowed any enjoyment garnered from the book.Rather than being lovable, I found Becky to be irresponsible, annoying and pretentious.
How very responsible of her, indeed.Of course, I realize the book is of the chick lit genre, but it would have been nice to have a modicum of reality intermixed with the fiction.To me, Becky represents the irresponsible consumerism that has resulted in the current credit crisis, and frankly, I don't find anything laughable about that.
first few pages made me laughed already but as i go later into the story YES....becky has gotten more shallow for some reason;it felt like someting was missing comparing from the previous series.BUTi'll admit;she is fab!"she's a red-hed bitch,and i hate her"...that made me laugh so hard.how sophie kinsella create becky's mind is wonderful!shallow and materialistic but creative and one of a kind.just a great fun to read it.some say she's dumb but i find it unique!come on who have that much drama during labour??im always a fan of her ,becky;im sure she'll be flattered.
Sometimes I find the shopaholic books hit or miss.
This one was a miss for me.
I did not like the frivolous way that Becky behaved.
I understand the doubts and nerves of gaining baby weight and yet, she takes it to the extreme.
I found her to be even more self-absorbed while she should have been focusing on the baby, and Luke.
As I said, a miss.
I am not sure I am going to continue with the rest of the books.
Maybe it is time to retire the shopaholic and focus on another quirky addiction.
I read the Shopaholic books as soon as I can get my hands on a copy.
She has sustained the Shopaholic idea through more sequels than most writers can.
However, this book (and the previous one, Shopaholic and Sister) isn't as spot-on as the first two.
I mean, isn't Becky ever going to learn to stop overspending?
It IS true that when you have your first baby, you buy all kinds of things you didn't know you "needed," and the part of the book when Becky learns about "baby couture" and decides she needs multiple strollers is fun.
I'm officially over the Shopaholic books. They are all the same, Becky never learns anything, and I just can't imagine someone being as self-absorbed as she is. It was definitely something mindless to read while sitting by the pool, but won't change your life or anything.
There is something wonderful about being able to pick up any book in the Shopaholic series and laugh out loud, forgetting about any other worries and escaping for a few hours.
*dreamy sigh*The fifth book in the series follows Becky Brandon through her pregnancy as she battles her "Red Headed Bitch" celebrity obstetrician who is trying to seduce her husband away...or is Luke willing going to abandon Beck and her baby?
(hide spoiler)]Shopaholic and Baby is another wonderfully light hearted instalment in the Shopaholic series and, while it won't win a Pulitzer Prize, it's well worth the read for anyone looking for a good laugh.
Loved this book. I think it’s the best one in the series so far. 4.5 stars!
Than her world comes crashing down.To her utter dismay, she finds out the this new doctor is Luke's ex-girlfriend who turns out to be a royal pain in the butt.
However, Beck is not about to allow Venetia, the doctor, interfere in her marriage even if it puts Becky in labor.Then there are problems with Luke's company and Becky's employment as well.
But in the end, Becky learns that nothing else matters or is more important than family and friends.Sophie Kinsella has a way of drawing in the reader and falling in love with her characters.
I don't want to spend a great deal of time catching you up on the whole series (check past blogs or Amazon for details), but in this installment Becky & Luke are pregnant with their first child.
Like usual, Kinsella throws us right into it with three little words: "Ok. Don't panic."Becky's spending habits seem to have toned down as she's gotten older and settled into married life, but even so her shopping gene flares in Pram City and the baby fair and becoming Vogue's number one Yummy Mummy!
How can she possibly properly shop for the child unless she knows what it's going to be?
Sophie Kinsella is one of my favorite authors, and the Shopaholic series my favorite books.
Sophie is a brilliant author who knows the perfect recipe to a great story.
But if you have a sense of humor and enjoy reading about fun characters and humorous yet realistic events, then you will love this book as much as I do!This is my second favorite book in the series because I live when Luke stands up for Becky and gets all passionate about his love for her.
Like every book in the series, I get completely wrapped up in their story and can't wait to know what happens next!
(view spoiler)[I am in love with their babies name: Minnie.
Either way I don't mind and I'm not going to question anything about it.Now, Shopaholic & Baby was really really freaking adorable.
It frustrated the hell out of me how Luke is so fucking blind.
Seriously this guy is so fucking naïve about these girls in his life and it always ends up hurting Rebecca in some way.I really hope Luke steps up his game in the next book.
I hope Rebecca stays just the way she is ..well maybe not spend as much money as she did before.
Becky Bloomwood is pregnant!
And then there's the inevitable monthly doctor's appointment so she and Luke could checkup on their baby.
Now that the ex is back, will Luke finally turn her eyes back to the doctor, especially since Becky feels ugly and looks bloated all the time?
She even made me think about the times when I was pregnant with my three kids.
But her encounter with Luke's ex was really something - I think it made her even more human and hysterical and likeable at the same time.
Becky... Preporuka za lagan i simpatican odmor za mozak!
Becky Brandon only wants the best for her unborn child. You know what that means, right? Shopping, of course! She goes a bit overboard with excessive purchases, and wants celebrity obstetrician Venecia Carter. What she doesn't know about Venecia is that she's Luke's ex-girlfriend! Becky is convinced that Venecia is going after her husband. Usually these books involve Becky overreacting about things, but for once she's not. Yes, she does about other things throughout the book, but Venecia really is the worst!
Kinsella repeats a LOT of words -I swear I read the word 'Incredulous' over a thousand times.
Kinsella writes good stories but I don't see why she has to make the character's antics so utterly unbelievable at the end.
I also noticed lack of depth in certain characters and I realised the author had used the same names here as in her previous books.
To me that just shows lack of imagination, and for an author so hugely successful and popular I thought she could have done a whole lot better.
Dit boek viel mij een beetje tegen. Het duurde tot over de helft van het boek voor het verhaal me echt te pakken had. Maar snel door naar het volgende boek.
Danny turns up demanding an absolutely outrageous rider and the full star treatment, costing The Look more money than ever, making Becky’s gamble an even bigger one.I’ve enjoyed the Shopaholic books I’ve previously read/listened to immensely but this one did fall a fraction flat for me, and I think that was primarily about how utterly stupid and frustrating Luke was.
And he keeps something from her in this book that I’m sure he does for all the right reasons (trying to save her stress, because of aforementioned slightly high blood pressure) but all it does is make him look ragingly guilty of having an affair, which actually makes her even more stressed out and upset.
There are books by Serious Writers tackling Serious Issues in thought-provoking, literary ways……and then there is the Shopaholic series.To be fair, someone picking up a book with “shopaholic” in the title is probably not looking for the next Great Novel of our Time.
As is befitting a book in the “Women’s Lives” genre, Becky struggles with themes that are of special concern to women: family, friendships, and careers—but her particular struggles come with many comic misunderstandings and a sort of literary slapstick humor.
This book starts of by telling us about Becky Bloomwood-Brandon who is just a regular mid-20’s year old shopaholic.
Venetia is a celebrity obstetrician to the stars and Becky thought she really wanted to have her as a doctor.
Becky really doesn’t like Luke’s behavior, since Luke and Venetia have been hanging out and reminiscing old days.
Becky is afraid that her marriage is falling apart, but she turns out to be really close to her husband by the end of the book.
At the end, Becky is blessed with a baby girl, Minnie.
Becky can relate everything to this new baby.
I checked out this book from our local library in hopes to try something a little different.
This is the first I've read of any of the shopaholic books.
I was aggravated by this book.
How on earth could someone be so consumed with shopping and what other people think of them is beyond me.
I don't think I'll ever understand.
I won't be surprise by the time the last shopaholic book comes out that Rebecca Brandon had an aneurysm or stroke.
Luke needs a backbone at home.
He should stop letting Rebecca run around like a chicken with it's head chopped off.
At A GlanceGenre: Chick LitLove Triangle/Insta Love?: Nope :DCliff Hanger: Nope.Rating: 4 StarsScore SheetAll out of tenCover:  8Plot:  8Characters: 8World Building: 8Flow:  9Series Congruity: 9Writing: 8Ending: 9Total: 8In DeptBest Part: Everything :DWorst Part: Dumb red headsThoughts Had: Becky you're crazy; Don't fuck this up Luke!ConclusionContinuing the Series: yes!!Recommending: yes!Short Review: I love Becky, i really do!
Plus Becky's Bank for Girls, that is a bank i am willing to trust with my money :D She had me laughing that's for sure.
First of all, I liked how Becky was pregnant, but maybe is Sophie had shown a little more maturity on the protagonists part, i would have believed that she was actually ready to be a mom.Also, there was basically no romance between Luke and Becky, which got to me.Another thing was that, Becky's shopping obsession was supposed to be something funny and something that shapened Becky to be who she was.
However, I think the author made Becky a little dumb in this book.
especiall since she's having a baby!Overall, I think the book was hilarious (especially the baby names bit!), but the protagonist ruined it for me.
Кой друг, освен Беки , ще спретне такова раждане., с хомеопат, ароматотерапевт, йога инструктор и т.н. Човек винаги трябва да се подсигурява отвсякъде.А как ви се струва идеята , да си кръстите детето г-ца Унауатуна Орхидея Бамбукова Брандън?Или Армагедон ?Идеята шнола на "Миу Миу" да бъде част от попечителски фонд ?Блестящи идеи има тази жена.Никой не може да си позволява да я подценява.
I started off not sure if I'd like the heroine, Becky, who at first glance appeared shallow and only interested in the designer lifestyle.
Even on days when I feel a little tired, all I need to pick me up is a read of Sophie Kinsella's Shopaholic and I start to cheer up.This is a comedy of errors.
But Becky shrugs all of this off.An engaging story, with quirky and entertaining characters, from her husband Luke, her sisters, her parents and her numerous friends.
I only read the very last line this evening, I now feel as though I'd like to read another Shopaholic novel.
