https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/262430.Gregor_the_Overlander
I've been trying to force the weighter books and it's like an overtight pair of jeans.
The YA and younger books are more like comfortable sweatpants, the waistband slightly stretched and the material over the seat taking on a sheen from wear.
No need to do the David Hasselhoff on Baywatch stomach suck.This is what I repeat to myself when I sit next to someone reading a scientific journal open to an article about the brain...you couldn't sit somewhere else, brain guy???The beginning of the 2nd book helped me pinpoint why I liked this 1st book so much.
it is less pronounced than in the hunger games, because of the younger audience, but it's an adventure book, life's hard, things die.
and i think that's a good element in children's literature; her lack of prettifying realities.
i will probably read the other books in the series, providing my social life doesn't improve, but i don't feel the same urgency to read them that i do for the teen series.
it may be the subject matter/younger audience thing, or the lack of a true "cliffhanger" at the end of the book,but i probably will get to them.
It's restful and reassuring to know there may be trials and tribulations but good will always defeat evil and the deserving will live happily ever after.Gregor the Overlander carries these themes forward but provides subtle opportunities for the reader to question their convictions about "right and wrong" through the protagonist's encounters with various species in the Underworld.
Equally appealing is the sharing of Gregor's thoughts as he begins to recognize the limits he has set for himself with self imposed rules after his father's disappearance.
What the reviewers fail to say is now much parents would enjoy sharing this book with their children.
While not as well known as the author's subsequent Hunger Games trilogy, it has been reviewed favorably by many critics.تاریخ نخستین خوانش: پنجم ماه جولای سال 2013 میلادیعنوان: تاریخ اعماق زمین - کتاب 1 - سفر شگفت انگیز گریگور؛ نویسنده: سوزان کالینز؛ مترجم: عاطفه احمدی؛ تهران، ویدا، چاپ اول و دوم 1391؛ در 268 ص؛ شابک: 9786002910172؛ چاپ سوم و چهارم 1392؛ موضوع: داستانهای علمی تخیلی از نویسندگان انگلیسی قرن 20 منقل از متن: گریگور تکه‌ ای یخ از فریزر برداشت، آن را روی صورتش کشید و زل زد به حیاط؛ سگ ولگردی دوروبر سطل زباله‌ ای که تا کله پرُ بود، بو می‌کشید.
I had always assumed they would be machine generated chapter books with mythical creatures protecting or seeking some ring or sword, or who knows what, that has some symbolic meaning - or doesn't.
Suzanne Collins, however, is in no way machine-generated.
I guess.In comparison to other popular child-soldier (or children-save-the-world) stories, the Underland Chronicles are not comforting in the way Harry Potter and Twilight are, nor are they as morally-outraged and uncomfortable as Ender's Game, but I found them more honest than all of those.
It makes me wish, once again, that Dostoyevski was able to edit well.
I actually got all teary-eyed over the death of an insect. Can you believe it?A great book, I'm glad I gave it a try although I wasn't sure at the beginning if it would be too young for my taste. Collins has created a fascinating world with the Underland and the book is full of amazing characters (insects and rodents included!).On to book two!
Had I not read and loved The Hunger Games, I never would have even considered reading this book.
As the children become acquainted with the strange beings and history of this mysterious land, a prophetic quest forms to find Gregor's long lost father (believed to have fallen victim to some of the creatures here years earlier), and lots of adventure ensues.Apparently, the author was inspired to write this book after wondering what Alice and Wonderland may have been like had it taken place in a city, where one is more likely to fall down a manhole than a bunny hole.
Çocuk kitabıymış, PEH!
Çocuklarında okuyabileceği, herkese uygun bir kitap olduğunu söylemek daha doğru olur.
Okuduğumu dün gibi hatırladığım kitaplardan biri Gregor ve Gri Kehanet.
Yeni bir kütüphane keşfetmiş, kaydımı yaptırmış, İstanbul'u gezen bir Fatih edasıyla rafların arasında dolaşıp ağzımın sularını tutmaya çalışırken kalın ciltlerin arasından bana göz kırpmıştı bu kitap.
Ve ben hiç düşünmeden onu çekip almış, tabii yanında iki kitapla birlikte, eve gelip yemeden içmeden okumuştum.
Her bir kelimeyle nefesimi kesen bir kitaptı.
Tabii o zamanlar bu şekilde bir kitap manyağı değildim ama bu yola girmeme sebep olan kitapların başını çekiyor bu yüzden benim için hep özel olarak kalacak.
This isn't a spoiler particularly because the prophecy says that 4 of the group of 12 will die, but when one of them does I actually had to stop reading.
I sat there in stunned silence and mourned the loss of a freaking bug.
Some of the other things I loved are:- the world because it's underground and I like the idea of an underground community- the relationship between humans and animals.
I really like seeing prophecies unfold in books.
I, naturally, am a HUGE The Hunger Games fan and basically wanted to read this because SUZANNE COLLINS.
I read a lot of books and often feel the babies aren't...well...realistic.
But Boots is SO realistic.
A cookie will basically fix everything.) I was just so completely in love with Boots and I thought Gregor was terrific.So my only problem was:I couldn't care less about the animals.
I FREAKING HATE RATS AND BATS AND BUGS.
(Although, um, I know, these books came first, but shhh, don't ruin my cacophonies.) Anyway, this was fantastic and I want to read the rest of the series ASAP!
Even though this book has nothing really to do with Kafka, I can't get it out of my head that somewhere in this series is some of the weird Jew from Prague.
The cover looks sort of Prague like.
There has been no real Kafka in the book though.
Besides looking for Kafka though, I found this fun.
Apparently my view of fun lately is fantastical adventures children go on that I can read in a couple of hours.
I'm either regressing, or just making up for all the books I never read as a little kid.
Proof that Suzanne Collins can be so much better than that soulless, commercialized dreck known as The Hunger Games. Gregor the Overlander is a terrific, mysterious fantasy novel with an elaborate, imaginative underground city world that could rival with Inside the Shadow City.
Plot SummaryGregor is an eleven year old who lives with his mom, grandma, and younger sisters in New York City.
One day, Gregor and his sister Boots are sucked down a grate in their laundry room, and find themselves in the Underland, a subterranean world populated by white-haired, violet-eyed humans, and oversized cockroaches, spiders, bats and rats.
Though all Gregor wants is to go home, he finds himself embroiled in a brewing war between the humans and rats, and perhaps a chance to find his father.My ReactionsThe Underland was interesting, to say the least.
I've read another children's book, haven't I?
(I'm so immature, but at least I enjoy myself!)Though I've never really been one for the 'guy gets sucked into another world' kind of genre, this one put a spin on my thoughts.
I've not enjoyed a book so much since...
I especially enjoyed how, as the reader, I had to keep an eye out for it's symbolism- instead of the horribly obvious whack-you-in-the-face kind.
I love this book's widespread emotions.
With all that the main characters go through; loss, betrayal, fear for their lives (a lot), war...
Îmi făceam bagajele şi încercam să aleg ce cărţi să iau acasă, după târgul de carte Gaudeamus, cu intenţia de a renunţa la fantasy şi la cărţile pentru copii, măcar pentru o perioadă, urmând să îmi îndrept atenţia spre lecturi „serioase”, mai complexe, un clasic sau poate unul dintre romanele pe care tot evit să le încep, de teamă că nu o să fie pe gustul meu sau că nu îl voi înţelege.Am pierdut şirul scuzelor, de câte ori am spus că iau o pauză de la fantasy sau YA.
Din instinct, Gregor sare după ea, disperat să o prindă pe Boots, dar este mult prea târziu pentru ei.
Gregor, O Sobreterrestre“Gregor, A Primeira Profecia” (2003) é o primeiro de uma série de cinco livros escritos por Suzanne Collins, actualmente reconhecida a nível mundial devido a outra personagem: Katniss Everdeen (”Hunger Games, Os Jogos da Fome).Escrito cinco anos antes da trilogia de Everdeen, Gregor partilha alguns traços da escrita apresentada com a menina do Distrito 12, sendo a linguagem simples e acessível, marcadamente para um público jovem-adulto, a sua característica mais óbvia.Katniss vs GregorDois aspectos fundamentais, porém, afastam, de forma substancial, ambas as séries.
نوع فضاسازی داستان و قابل پذیرش سازی دنیای زیرزمینی خیلی سطحی بود. من چند بار اون بخش داستان که از رختشورخونه افتادن پایین رو خوندم و بازم نفهمیدمش! شخصیتپردازیها سطحی، اتفاقات اکثرا قابل پیشبینی بود. در واقع به جز سوسکها و موشهای غولپیکر که بازم هیچ دلیلی برای غولپیکر بودنشون ارائه نشده بود، هیچ چیز جدیدی برای من داشت. خوشحالم داستان تو جلد اول تموم شد چون قصد ندارم ادامهی مجموعه رو بخونم.امتیازم به کتاب ۲.۵ ه که با ارفاق و به خاطر شخصیت بامزهی بوتز بهش ۳ میدم.----------یادگاری از کتاب:احساس عج
نوع فضاسازی داستان و قابل پذیرش سازی دنیای زیرزمینی خیلی سطحی بود.
من چند بار اون بخش داستان که از رختشورخونه افتادن پایین رو خوندم و بازم نفهمیدمش!
شخصیت‌پردازی‌ها سطحی، اتفاقات اکثرا قابل پیش‌بینی بود.
خوشحالم داستان تو جلد اول تموم شد چون قصد ندارم ادامه‌ی مجموعه رو بخونم.امتیازم به کتاب ۲.۵ ه که با ارفاق و به خاطر شخصیت بامزه‌ی بوتز بهش ۳ می‌دم.----------یادگاری از کتاب:احساس عجیبی به او می‌گفت که اگر درباره‌ی اتفاقات واقعی خیال‌پردازی کند، آن‌ها هرگز اتفاق نمی‌افتند....پایین افتادن راحته، اما برای بالا رفتن خیلی چیزها رو باید فدا کنی....مادربزرگش همیشه می‌گفت: جایی که زندگی باشه، امید هم هست.
DNF - this book was really a children's book... I picked it up for obvious reasons (SUZANNE COLLINS!) but I didn't really like it. Perhaps I'll give it another shot later, but not now.
Before Suzanne Collins became megafamous from writing about The Hunger Games she wrote a wonderful series of children's books called the Underland Chronicles.
I've always liked the idea of world beyond our own fingers or underneath our feet and that is what Collins decided to tackle in these novels.
As I come back to write reviews of books I have read in the past, I find it fascinating that of the many hundreds of books (many of which were short pulpy little things) I read in my childhood that I can remember this one very clearly.
Either way I recommend these novels for children to read, or any adults with childlike hearts!
Gregor, an eleven year old boy and his two year old sister Boots get sucked from the laundry room in their NYC apt building into The Underland.
The Underland has regular-ish humans, along with giant bats, roaches, rats, and spiders.
According to an Underland prophecy, Gregor is the one who will lead them in their battle against the rats.
The giant rat Ripred.
I loved The Hunger Games.
All those teen girls who loved The Hunger Games probably think they're a little too old to enjoy this book.
I think both boys and girls would love this adrenaline-filled story.
aww~~ guys !I really liked this book!It's a story about adventures on unknown worlds, about family and love.At first was really weird, reading about a place where bats, cockroaches, spiders, rats, and all those creepy disgusting things, are part of the "society".
Also the innocence of childhood, all the trust and love she shows to everyone, is such a nice reminder to treat everyone equally.The central dogma was also pretty good, finding Gregor's father and the several steps they had to perform to get to the end of their quest and all the twists and turns, really got me entertained, focused and attached there.It really felt like a children's book at first but the more I read the more not childish looked to me.And gosh, I cried for the death of a cockroach!I guess that says alot about Suzanne's writing.
Already an immensely huge fan of Collins, outstanding series The Huger Games, I just had to see what her other books were like.Now, I've never been particular pleased with rats and cockroaches to begin with, so having to read about life-sized ones was pretty dame creepy let me tell ya, but never the less, the underground world is fantastically imaginative and unique.
I really enjoyed all the characters, Gregor is a heart felt kid and wonderfully good humored and Boots was to precious for words.Bottom line?
I just loved this book.
Anyone who loves fantasy should have a lot of fun with Gregor the Overlander!Awesome Read!On to book two...;)
My 10-yr old son moped around for days after he finished this series because he was so bummed there were no more books left to read.
I decided I needed to see for myself what all the fuss was about, and I was also intrigued to see Suzanne Collins' work prior to The Hunger Games.
I wasn't disappointed!
It is geared towards a younger crowd than Hunger Games, but was still enjoyable for me as an adult.
Gregor is the hero, but he still has a mom and dad he looks up to, as well as younger siblings he cares for.
3,5 * review to come
گریگور به هیچ وجه به خودش اجازه نمیداد به آینده فکر کند. احساس عجیبی به او میگفت که اگر دربارهی اتفاقات واقعی خیالپردازی کند، آنها هرگز اتفاق نمیافتندکالینز داستان بلند نویسیش رو با این کتاب شروع کرده که اولین بار سال 2003 یعنی 5 سال قبل از اولین جلد عطش مبارزه چاپ شده. برای همین نمیشه انتظار داشت که اثری با کیفیت عطش مبارزه باشه. با این حال نمیشه هم گفت که کتاب بدیه.به نظرم نقاط قوتی توی این کتاب هست که توی عطش مبارزه، با توجه به پختهتر شدن نثر کالینز، خیلی واضحتره. اولا که کالینز روابط بین اف
احساس عجیبی به او می‌گفت که اگر درباره‌ی اتفاقات واقعی خیال‌پردازی کند، آن‌ها هرگز اتفاق نمی‌افتندکالینز داستان‌ بلند نویسیش رو با این کتاب شروع کرده که اولین بار سال 2003 یعنی 5 سال قبل از اولین جلد عطش مبارزه چاپ شده.
ریتم کتاب اصلا کند نیست و اتفاقات سریع میفته، اما به نظرم گره‌های داستان خیلی ساده و قابل پیش‌بینی باز میشه و همین به نظرم یک نقطه ضعف بزرگه.
امیدوارم جلد بعد که گویا اون هم به یه پیش‌گویی ربط داره سطحش کمی از این بالاتر باشه.امتیازم در مجموع به کتاب 3.2 است.
Brought to you by Suzanne Collins – yes – the same Suzanne Collins that wrote The Hunger Games, Gregor the Overlander is a fun and entertaining read.
Geared towards younger audiences, the Gregor books are a kind of Alice in Wonderland for boys.Eleven year old Gregor is stuck babysitting his baby sister Boots.
Gregor follows Boots and falls into another world.
It is also a world where the humans live in fear of really huge rats and super sized spiders.
These bats are bonded for life with the humans that live in this world.
Cockroaches, rats, spiders, and bats.
My boys can’t wait to get their hands on this book.
I loved this perfect middle grade read. It was well paced, the characters were all completely engaging, and the hero is just this ordinary kid from New York. Some parts were slightly heavy handed (I'm looking at you, prophecy), but I finished this one with such a feeling of happiness and hope that I couldn't rate it less than 5 stars. A perfect example of what it set out to be.
Eigentlich will er nur so schnell es geht wieder nach oben zurück, doch eine alte Prophezeiung weist seinem Schicksal einen anderen Weg.Die Stimmung ist teilweise recht düster und es geht rau zu zwischen den Bewohnern des Unterlandes, denn es leben nicht nur Menschen dort, sondern auch große, wirklich monströse Tiere, die ihre Reviere zu verteidigen wissen.
Aber auch kleine Feinheiten zwischen den Charakteren, über Mut, Vertrauen und Freundschaft.Der Schauplatz an sich ist nicht sehr detailreich, aber doch bildhaft dargestellt und ich hatte die Stadt Regalia, die die Unterland-Menschen über Jahrhunderte aufgebaut haben, sehr gut vor Augen.
Começo por agradecer à Editorial Presença, não só por me ter enviado este livro como presente de aniversário do blogue, mas principalmente por editar livros tão fantásticos. Os livros desta editora estão entre os meus preferidos de sempre. Quando soube que a autora da tão consagrada série dos Jogos da Fome tinha outra série a ser lançada em Portugal, fiquei completamente em pulgas para a ler. Não contava recebe-la de presente da editora. MUITO OBRIGADA MAIS UMA VEZ! Ao contrário da outra série d
Quando soube que a autora da tão consagrada série dos Jogos da Fome tinha outra série a ser lançada em Portugal, fiquei completamente em pulgas para a ler.
A história começa por nos dizer que Gregor, um menino de onze anos, não pôde ir junto com os outros da sua idade para um campo de férias porque teve de ficar em casa a cuidar da irmã mais nova, com apenas dois anos de idade (a quem todos chamam Boots).
Mas, principalmente, percebi que este livro transmite uma mensagem muito importante a quem lê: todas as criaturas são iguais (grandes ou pequenas, não importando as diferenças entre nós, todas têm o mesmo valor).
His sister Lizzie got to go, but since his mom has to work, and his grandma has been losing her memory, he has to stay home to watch his 2 year old sister Boots.
Will Gregor and Boots ever find their way back home or will they have to undergo a quest to do so?
Read and find out for yourself.This is a pretty good YA fantasy and is the first book of a five book series that Suzanne Collins author of the hunger games has written.
I will definitely be continuing this series.
