https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/7415016-mini-shopaholic
She lies to everyone,from her husband to her parents to her child's nanny to the administrator of her friend's child's school(although that lie was actually done to be kind).
And speaking of her husband, he is almost non-existent in this book until the final chapters.
He needs to be there more than he was in this book.I keep hoping that Becky will begin to grow up and realize she simply can't have everything she wants, even if she can find some scheme to make it happen.
I want her to embrace her family and friends with the same passion that she does her stuff.Oh well, maybe next time.

Becky Brandon (nee Bloomwood) is a zany character who gets in scrapes, but is ultimately lovable.Perhaps that was true for the first 5 books in the series.
A more stable woman would have been deserted at this point in real life, or even in any good book.
Hopefully, this will be the final book in the Shopaholic series (they made a dreadful film out of the first one); it's the same story over and over again...Bex gets into a scrape, lies her way into an even deeper hole, and her long-suffering parents and husband rescue her just in time!
Confessions of a Shopaholic was the first chick lit book I read.
It is the ONLY chick lit series I still read (I started feeling that chick lit was all the same).
I love Becky!!
Her life is always a total mess, she digs herself into massive holes..and yet, she has the biggest heart.
As for this book, it was A LOT better than the Sister & Baby.
I thought Sister was truly awful!!
Minnie wasn't as awful as I thought she was going to be.
Seriously, he needs to chill out.
Danny-omfg, he needs a reality check.
It also cemented Becky as one of my favourite characters.Mini Shopaholic is basically in the same format as the other books in the series: Becky using every excuse in the book to keep shopping and up to her elbows in secrets, and fighting to keep those secrets from coming out, but of course everything goes horribly wrong.In this instalment we see Becky as a mother, raising her two year old daughter, Minnie, who is slightly wayward and becoming too fond of materialistic items like her mummy, with her husband, Luke.
Becky, her long-suffering hubby Luke, and their two year old monster toddler are living with Becky's hapless parents until the lawsuit from the debacle in the last book is settled.
Becky has managed to take over every spot of space with her belongings, and somehow misses out on the fact that her parents have put their lives on hold while she and her family are there.Second of all, Becky hasn't learned a thing and is now passing on bad habits to a child.
But Becky refuses to see that her child is a problem, most likely because it will reflect badly on her.Finally, she nearly costs Luke's assistant her job, as she pushes her to divulge confidential information.
Becky Brandon (neé Bloomwood) is back, and with her two year old Minnie in tow.
Unfortunately, Minnie seems to be a bigger shopoholic than Becky is, proclaiming everything in the stores “MINE!” As a result, Luke is stressed out, and a financial crisis doesn’t help the situation.
Becky wants to throw a surprise party for Luke, but with the financial crisis, a strict budget, and a “spirited” daughter, how can she?Something about this book really bugged me.
And why are Becky and Luke together?
The lone one good thing Becky does over the course of a year makes up for being a vapid, lying clotheshorse in debt?
I love her stand-alone books, don't get me wrong, but when it comes to Becky Bloomwood I would happily read a book a month about her.
Minnie and her like of the word "mine" is prominent to the book but the book seems, to me, to be more focused on Becky wanting Luke to have a surprise party for his birthday after the year he's had.
Throughout the previous books, it seems that Luke is only ever known to be working; constantly missing things and always having his phone to his ear and despite the fact it continues in Mini Shopaholic, I do think we saw a bit more of him than usual.
There's nothing special about this book or the other 5 books of the series,actually there's a selfis
Rounding this up to 4 stars for making me laugh after the doom and gloom of my previous novels.**The Shopaholic books aren't going to change your world, but they're fun and airy.
I read the previous 5 Shopaholic books back-to-back one weekend* last year and by the 3rd book, Becky Bloomwood went from endearing to irritating.
Mini Shopaholic was no different, although the year off from Becky Brandon nee Bloomwood allowed me to regard her and her mini-me, Minnie, with more patience and affection.I hate the term "chick-lit" -- I'd much rather compare books to drinks, so this is cocktail- or apple martini-lit.
I am very addicted to the shopaholic series- I read all five in less than two weeks!! I can't wait for this one to be released...
In the latest installment to the Shopaholic series, Rebecca Brandon returns with willful two-year-old Minnie, who has taken after her mother in her fierce determination and her addiction to luxury brands.
It made me almost sick to read about how she put her daughter in debt (not serious debt to the bank, but still) and effectively passed her shopping addiction on to Minnie, lied to her family and friends and put on a huge expensive party when she was supposed to cut back on her spending.Obviously the books are about shopping and about Becky getting in trouble and how she gets out of it, but I would like to see some growth in her character.
However, all in all the book was annoying.
Unless this is your first shopaholic book you will definitely find all of Becky's 'quirks' hugely annoying rather than charming.
Basically Becky is an annoying whiny b**ch, Minnie is a spoiled brat and Luke is a neglectful a**hole.
made me want to go home and hug my own parents.For fiction, especially chick lit, it's really hard to say a character should know better because it is just that...
a character.
However, Becky should know better.Also, now that she's financially stable her buying habits really aren't that dramatic.
Her life is always a complete and utter mess with these massive holes she digs herself into...and yet she has the biggest heart and only does it because she means well.
This time around, however, Becky Brandon (nee Bloomwood) got on my ever lovin' nerves like no one else could!
Seeing as how all the books are told from her viewpoint it is essential for the reader to to like her, at least a little bit.
I kept wishing in between the last book and this one that Becky would begin to grow and mature now that she is a mother and realize she simply can't have everything she wants like her spoiled toddler does...wonder where she learned THAT from!
She's still the same old Becky who acts without thinking and creating disaster after disaster, unnecessarily.
In fact, I still don't understand how a smart, sharp, rational lad -not to mention rich- like Luke could fall for Becky.
Yeah, jealousy jealousy :DI think the sole purpose of this book is to prolong the series.
what?Ummm, yes, of course I had a laugh reading it.
Well, okay, a good laugh.
It's a good read after a long day, okay?
Yes, of course I like Luke.
Yeah, I know it's Becky Blomwood.
Good.Well, I guess I'll see you around in Becky's next adventure.
С всяка следваща книга от серията, ми става все по-трудно да се разделя с любимите герои.Пренесох се напълно в щурия свят на Беки и сега ще ми липсва много.Изпълни мрачния зимен месец февруари със смях и топлота.На моменти се хващам , че поведението ми се доближава до нейното.
При всички случаи е страхотно да правиш нещата с усмивка и чувство за хумор.
Култовата идея в тази част е как въведе доставката на луксозните дрехи на клиентките си под формата на факс хартия или материали за почистване, за да останат в тайна от мрънкащите съпрузи.Сложи преграда пред Беки и ще намериш някое гениално решение.Остава само да си припомня какви ги вършеше в Холивуд.
Why, hello there Rebecca Bloomwood, the most extravagant, spendthrift lady in the world, we meet again!Two years ago, I’ve already read her first 5 books (Shopaholic series), (review links found in my blog - https://imacoffeeholicbookworm.wordpr...) but I wasn’t able to read Mini-Shopaholic immediately afterwards.
(Mine!), was certainly making me nauseous and eager to do early Christmas shopping this time of the year.I loved this book, I don’t know about you, but I really liked this.
Although I still have the love-hate feeling for Becky Brandon, her Mini-Me daughter Minnie brought a smile to my face.
i feel like sophie kinsella made an attempt to ground her protagonist, becky, in modern times by setting her adventures against a background of economic panic & recession, but somehow, that made becky's hijinks even more annoying.becky's daughter, minnie, is two in this book, & well on her way to being a spoiled, materialistic brat.
how about being concerned that becky is a terrible mother who should have never been allowed to have one child, let alone two?the real plot of the book centered on becky's desire to organize a surprise party for luke's birthday.
I find myself disliking the rest of the characters too - Mum, the source of Becky's irate behavior, Jess, who's getting some spotlights but they're so boring, Suze, who's supposed to be more sensible but turns almost dim in this book, Danny, the selfish designer, Minnie, the crazy spoiled child, and I can go on...
my favorite character remains, Luke, but even he's getting the insecurity bug, follows the crazy antics of his in law family, and also doing things that don't make sense.Despite what a madcap adventure I get from the last half of the book, I'm still not sure the charm of the series holds.
Okay, I need to get a few things off my chest before I dive into this review:First off this book, Mini Shopaholic is a reread.
And third, I freaking love Minnie.What would you expect the child of Rebecca Brandon's to be like?!
If I could get a whole series about Minnie I would probably die and fall even more in love with her.Other than Becky's crazy shenanigans, there's Luke who somehow never misses a beat when it comes to his wife and child.
Again, I loved this book (obviously way more than I did last year) and I could totally see myself rereading this series later on in my life.
One of the first book series I enjoyed reading. So I liked this one as well. I read it a long time ago already but wanted to re-read it before I started reading Shopaholic to the Stars. This story was a usually Becky Brandon (nee Bloomwood) story which I really enjoyed reading. Really looking forward to reading the next book!
!!!! becky's daughter is a shopaholic too or? can't wait!!
Dgn memiliki anak spt Minnie, kita pasti berpikir anak ini adalah bencana berjalan dan bom waktu yg kapan saja bisa meledak, mencederai dan bikin kezel orang yg kena imbasnya.
Sisi baiknya Luke waspada terhadap perilaku Minnie tetapi sayangnya lengah terhadap kecanduan belanja Becky yg tidak terkontrol tsb.Yg saya salut adalah Becky selalu sarat ide baik yg ajaib maupun yg cemerlang.
Dan kegigihan serta pantang menyerahnya patut kita kagumi saat dia mengatur pesta kejutan ulangtahun utk Luke, suaminya.
Sebenci-bencinya Becky pd Elinor (ibu kandung Luke), dia tetap berusaha diam-diam mempertemukan Minnie dgn neneknya yg kaku ini.
Tanpa pamor dan kegigihan Elinor, mungkin Becky akan batal mengadakan pesta kejutan tsb.
I get that the whole point of each book is for Becky to continually get herself into trouble and somehow miraculously everything turns out fine in the end.
However, by this book it just wasn't working anymore.
Also, so much of this book was about the damn party.
It was fine at first, but got very tiring very quickly.
There basically wasn't much other plot happening at all and this book could have been halved in length.At least Minnie was cute...when she wasn't being a spoiled brat.
This is the sixth adventure I've shared with Becky Brandon (nae Bloomwood) but she felt like an old friend after the very first book so it hardly needs to be said that I always enjoy spending time with her.
And will Luke find out the secrets--not only about the party but about the fact that Becky has agreed to meet with Elinor (Luke's estranged biological mother) to let her see her granddaughter Minnie at long last?Much as I love Becky, and Kinsella's style, I must admit that by this time I would have liked Becky to wise up just a little bit more regarding her shopaholic tendencies and the fact that money doesn't grow on trees.
Sorry not sorry I love theses books!
It was an unexpected twist in the story, but one that was perfect.I expected more to happen with the GFC storyline, I wanted to see Becky going through her wardrobe ebaying all her clothes!Minnie reminded me of every horror child you see in a shopping centre who is a brat and who drives you insane - the fact that Becky was ok wit her child's behaviour (or was nonchalant about it at the best of times) was also a little irritating.
Is it because Becky shops the way we would all like to- buy now, remorse much, much later?
I don’t know.Shopaholic fans will be pleased to note that Becky hasn’t restrained her shopping habits despite the addition to the family of her daughter, Minnie.
Minnie loves shopping too (her favourite word is ‘Miiiiiiiiiiiiiine!’) and has the ability to hail cabs, bid on eBay and get her way at two years old.
The twist at the end was a little un-Becky like to me, perhaps it proves that Mrs Brandon is growing up after all.
I love the Becky Bloomwood books but this one had way too many antics at once, and never seemed to find its place.
Most of the book is taking up with a giant birthday party that she is planning for her husband, Luke.
The book starts with a financial crisis, but it doesn't seem to affect Becky at all, even when she promises Luke to stop spending.
Then as the party plans begin to spin out of control and you realize how many people know who Luke is, he seems to be as famous in England as a celebrity, you stop caring.
I loved the book when I first started it, but sometimes enough is enough.
Minnie oli itseppäinen täystuho mutta siltti äidin oma diiva.Oli hauska lukea kirjaa ja seurata mitä Minnie keksii Beckyn riesaksi seuraavaksi,kirjassa puhutaan oman bisneksen alottamisesta ja omasta mielestäni kirjassa puhutaan hyvin bisneksesta, kuinka vaikeaa mutta palkitsevaa se on, kuinka siinä voi menestyä ja hävitä ja kuinka oppii uusia asioita.omasta mielestäni oman bisneksen aloittaminen voi olla juuri kuin kirjassa on kerrottu, koska ei tietenkään omaa kokemusta ole.
Ja kunbisneksen aloittaa siihen tarvitsee rohkeutta ja myös omaa aikaansa hyvin paljon, ja toimivan järjestelyn että bisnes myös toimii.mutta kokonaisuudessaan pidin tarinasta ja siitä että kirjassa myös puhutiin järkevästä asiasta ja kirjan lopussa oli mukava tietää että Beckyn liike myös menestyi eikä asiakkaat hävinnyt, ja ettei Minnie ollut enää niin itseppäinen.
