https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/32234.White_Oleander
If nothing else, read this book for the language. White Oleander reads like a poem. It's so beautifully crafted.
This wasn't a tale of any ordinary bond between mother and daughter, this was a story of the severe dysfunction that occurs when a mother, Ingrid, is imprisoned for murder and a daughter, Astrid, is passed around like garbage from one foster home to another.
This novel explores the intricacies of their relationship.
It explores the depth of emotion that Astrid feels toward Ingrid, ranging from obsessive love to all-encompassing hatred.Janet Fitch is not just a storyteller.
When you read a book by Fitch it is an experience to savor; letting the story wash over your soul in warm, gentle waves.
Well, what was I supposed to rate it? I did work awfully hard on W.O.... still like it. Sad to think Oprah's book club is all over, it was quite an experience.
I fell in love with Ingrid and her beauty and ideas of the world.
Then I became Astrid, and I felt how much she loved her and how bad it hurt to also hate her, but hate Ingrid I did!
I would walk away from long reading sessions feeling hardened and detached.
It's not an easy read, but I find literature that can make me feel so strongly well deserving of praise.
The words were like a sad song.
I connected with them so much that they became the theme song of my life for days.
This is Astrid’s story.We meet her first when she is twelve and in Ingrid’s (her mother) care.Ingrid is a woman of such rare, unearthly beauty as to be most likely found in dreams.Fitch describes her through Astrid’s eyes, gradually, poetically, using very sparse language, as the story unfolds, with words that sing, the pages glistening with the image reflected from her eyes.The Santa Anas blew in hot from the desert, shrivelling the last of the spring grass into whiskers of pale straw.
And yet Fitch makes it sing, with her beautiful, simple words.I left walking backwards so I wouldn’t miss a moment of her.
Before reading the final chapter of the book, I had to put it down, lean my head back against the couch and think about the experience I've had while reading this book.
Astrid's journey, her development from girl to woman, is remarkably crafted.
Atmospherically, this story was superb.
I was totally immersed in the story, in the physical spaces that Astrid inhabits through her 390 page life.
But that final interaction in the prison, wow.
Just wow.
If you're struggling to get into this book for the first one or two hundred pages, just keep going.
i'm not a psychologist nor have i ever been shot, but i suspect any fourteen year old girl who's mother was sent to prison for murder, who offered herself sexually to a man three times her age, is shot by her first foster mother, performs oral sex on a boy in exchange for 1/2 bag of marijuana would be SEVERLY emotionally disturbed and troubled.
i don't want to read how a fourteen year old remembers every graphic detail of performing oral sex on a middle-aged man.
a 14 year old girl who's performed oral sex on a man is not going to long for it again.
I am appalled by the worldview presented in this book.
Yet the circumstances surrounding Ingrid, a poetess who goes to prison for murder are so artificial!I don't want to squirm when I'm reading, and I read for pleasure.
Is there a market for books like this?
Of course there is.
And I've got nothing against people who like this book.
But should they lap it up like it's licorice?The book is also about foster homes and what can go wrong.
I did like it on some level.This book is similar to books by Khaled Hosseini.
It's called WHITE FUKKIN OLEANDER, for PETE'S SAKE!!!Here's where the internalized misogyny comes in, of course, because WHAT THE HELL IS WRONG WITH THAT???
-- I forget -- winds up in foster care, and the book is her bouncing around from LA foster home to foster home and experiencing, as my own mother put it, all these different types of moms.Like Push, another book I need to review, there are moments you cannot believe the author was able to type with a straight face.
LADY WRITERS DO NOT HAVE A MONOPOLY ON THIS KIND OF PATHOS!Anyway, I liked this book.
Astrid becomes a ward of the state after her mother commits a crime of passion and is imprisoned.
A true seductress a woman who can weave a web of destruction with her beauty, poetry and words, people fall in love with her, men in particular, she is dangerous and nobody knows this better than Astrid.
This book delves into that most treacherous of relationships the mother/daughter dynamic.
A relationship that is deeply destructive and insidious.
The theme of this book touched a nerve so it affected me personally which is why I rated this 5 stars
White Oleander follows the story of Astrid, a young girl who is shuttled from one foster home to another while her mother serves a life sentence in prison.I'm reading this for the second time, and it remains one of my favourite books ever.
The characters in this novel are ones you won't forget; terribly flawed, and yet I remained sympathetic towards all of them.
Janet Fitch has a talent for writing in a way which allows you to thoroughly comprehend what each character is going through, regardless of how different your own life may be.I highly, highly recommend this novel, especially for those who love character driven stories, or if you're looking for something different.
When I was about 100 pages into the book, I already knew that this was going to be a new favourite of mine.
Janet Fitch has a way of comparing life to ordinary things and creating metaphors that are spot on, and it was so easy to follow Astrid's train of thoughts and feel for her through her struggles.
The impeccable writing style was then paired to a beautiful and - as I said - raw story about doubt, loneliness, love, insecurity and so many other things.
I loved every page of this book!
This is some of the most beautiful writing I've ever encountered. It reminds me a little bit of Women Who Run With the Wolves: Myths and Stories of the Wild Woman Archetype. It's language is deep and satisfying. The mother daughter relationship told in an almost mythical way. Loved it!
Gritted my teeth to get through this and see what happened. The story itself is interesting, but the writing was so fussy and melodramatically overwrought that I wanted to toss the book away. Kept going only because I wanted to understand people's strong response to it.
The writing flowed easily, in fact, I couldn't wait to turn page after page to know what happens next.White Oleander is told from Astrid's perspective.
Ingrid's sentence to jail starts a six-year transformation in Astrid from the girl who worships her mother to someone who tries to stay away from her.Astrid's years in foster care are almost gut-wrenching to read about.
Sometimes I wanted to shake the people around her for being blind to her - A 13-year-old aware of the manipulative power of sex, the lifting effect of drugs and being attracted to old or married men.However dire these situations, White Oleander also strongly advocates that human companionship can be found in the least expected places.
thanks." But then I read it, and I'm now convinced that my aunt knows me better than maybe many of my close friends or better than I know myself.
This is one of those books that even if you had great parents, you can probably identify with, just because of how excellently the characters and story are rendered, and it's hard to believe that this author didn't live through anything like this herself.
She makes a special point of noting in the preface (or back cover or something) that her and her mother get along great and are very close; to me that just makes this book more amazing because, well, damn.
It’s an atmospheric novel full of oppressive Los Angeles heat and a classic noir flavor that shades into gritty realism as it goes on, taking us from when Astrid is 12 to when she’s a young woman out in the world on her own.Astrid’s mother Ingrid, an elitist poet, becomes obsessed with a lover who spurned her and goes to jail for his murder.
Bouncing between foster homes and children’s institutions, Astrid is plunged into a world of sex, drugs, violence and short-lived piety.
Some of the circumstances seemed almost extreme (though still believable) but nothing about the characters rang false to me.I loved reading how Astrid adapted to her many different circumstances.
This would be a great book club book because there is a lot to think about and discuss.Highly recommended for readers who like beautifully crafted novels, those interested in foster children, those who enjoy atypical coming of age stories, readers who like reading about dysfunctional families and family relationships, those who appreciate how art can be healing, and people who are familiar with L.A. and southern California.Two of the quotes that I loved:“The pearls weren't really white, they were a warm oyster beige, with little knots in between so if they broke, you only lost one.
Almost as soon as I started this book, I was swept away by the writing.
This book does not shy away from the dark and gritty places.
I wanted to rescue Astrid from the delves of the barrel, and mostly from the poetic grasp of her mother.
The writing was powerful-- I don't have the words to express how lyrical the writing was considering the dark subject matter.
I found myself searching for hope and rooting for Astrid more than anything else, I just wanted her to be "Ok" by the end of the book.

This is my all time favorite book. I love the character Astrid, and enjoyed seeing her played by Alison Lohman in the movie. I wish there were more books like this one.
I can't forget her story.
Astrid...I'll never forget your story.
I first read this book when I was seventeen for an advanced writing course and it touched some part of me so deeply that I wrote this passage in my journal about it.
Since then I've read this book countless times.
The story never gets old and the writing is always refreshing.
Simply put: The most beautiful piece of fiction I've ever read.
Janet Fitch has a truly authentic writing style that incorporates soft hues of poetry into the story.
This book will remain on my shelf FOREVER!!!
I only wish there were a star less than one. I wish I could remove stars. I wish there were a star deficit rating.This book almost made me give up reading all together. It is definitely the last book I trusted from Oprah. I still think she owes me money and those days of my life back. It was page after page of the most depressing writing I've ever read with absolutely no pay off.
Astrid trails destruction and debris through three or four various foster homes, developing complicated and doomed relationships along the way that only serve to reaffirm her abandonment complex.
Whether Ingrid was there or not, Astrid was emotionally abandoned the whole time) will really resolve any of her conflict.
Following the trials and tribulations of one Astrid Magnusson, the book takes you first from her idyllic life with her poet/ice queen mother, Ingrid, to the various foster hells she is plunged into once her mother is imprisoned for the murder of a former lover.
I came out deeply moved and with tears streaking my cheeks, not so much from the writing but from the thought that all of the hells that Astrid is subjected to in house after house are actually being experienced by children in foster care every day.
Astrid's struggle highlights the existence that a vast amount of this nation's children live, and that is the most horrifying thing of all.
Edit--re-read March 2013One of the best books I've ever read...still. In fact... The writing is very descriptive, lyrical and poetic. The metaphors (and there are a lot) are spot on-perfect. I highlighted s-o-o-o many passages, and they hit me every time I re-read them. The story itself is dark and often depressing in the examination of a young girl's relationship with her disturbed mother, and her subsequent journey through the foster care system. And though her mother is cruel, I swear she has
Edit--re-read March 2013One of the best books I've ever read...still.
I highlighted s-o-o-o many passages, and they hit me every time I re-read them.
The story itself is dark and often depressing in the examination of a young girl's relationship with her disturbed mother, and her subsequent journey through the foster care system.
And though her mother is cruel, I swear she has some of the best lines (dialogue and in her letters)in the novel.
White Oleander is not fluffy and light, it's not an easy read, but it's well worth checking out when you're in the mood for an emotional journey that is told beautifully.
Janet Fitch has an amazing gift for writing novels centered around protagonists that are flawed and scarred, while at the same time making her audience identify with and even love these characters because of their imperfections.
At the beginning of the story, Astrid's mother goes to jail for poisoning an ex-boyfriend and Astrid is placed in a series of foster homes.
But at the same time, Fitch presents Astrid as a sensitive, intelligent, and artistically gifted young girl who's just trying to survive - and life sure likes to screw this girl over.
But Astrid survives, and her story is heartbreaking, disturbing, and ultimately beautiful.
White Oleander is a very unique and amazing piece of literature.
The novel is beautifully written with a passionate and enthralling plot and incredibly vivid descriptions which make it easy for the reader to visualise every person and place Astrid encounters.
I was overwhelmed and deeply touched by Janet Fitch's wonderful prose, the intensity of her descriptions, and the incredible insight into each of her characters.
I adored the protagonist, Astrid.
I cried with her, sobbed with her and laughed with her.
This girl's story is one of survival, despite the odds being heavily stacked against her.
A work of art of a novel with complex characters. Slow paced at times but I was never bored. I love how the author wasn't afraid to show Ingrid's dark side and not shy away from it... or to show Astrid in different lights. Not a novel for everyone (I didn't expect to love it) but I highly recommend trying it.
Gripping from the beginning to the end, White Oleander is destined to become a classic and there are definitely none like it out there. :)
