https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1726929.History_of_the_Byzantine_State
Edward Gibbon, undisputed world heavyweight champion of the lofty put-down, wasn't a fan of the Byzantine Empire.The division of the Roman world between the sons of Theodosius marks the final establishment of the Empire of the east, which, from the reign of Arcadius to the taking of Constantinople by the Turks subsisted 1058 years in a state of premature and permanent decay.The subjects of the Byzantine empire, who assume and dishonour the names both of Greeks and Romans, present a dead uniformity of abject vices, which are neither softened by the weakness of humanity nor animated by the vigour of memorable crimes.That's quite harsh.THE THOUSAND YEAR DWINDLEThe Byzantine Empire was a thousand year dwindle.
Not the slightest drop of undiluted Hellenic blood flows in the veins of the Christian population of present-day GreeceHe thought modern Greeks were slavs or Albanians.
Ολοκληρωμένη και πολύ καλογραμμένη Ιστορία του Βυζαντίου, μιας εποχής που μας έχει διαμορφώσει και από την οποία θα μπορούσαμε να αντλούμε στοιχεία εθνικής ταυτότητας. Αντί αυτού το συκοφαντούμε και το απορίπτουμε ως σκοταδιστικό. Πολύ πλούσια ιστορία και πολιτισμός, με τα πάνω του και τα κάτω του, όπως κάθε αυτοκρατορία. Θα έπρεπε να απασχολεί κάθε Ελληνα που ενδιαφέρεται για την εθνική του ταυτότητα και την ιστορική της συνέχεια και πορεία. Για όσους ενδιαφέρονται, η ιστορία του Οστρογκόρσκυ είναι ίσως το καλύτερο ανάγνωσμα και το πιο εκτενές και αναλυτικό επι του θέματος.
Entrambi sono considerati i volumi degli autori di riferimento per le diverse epoche (che se le cose dobbiamo farle facciamole bene).Difatti, quella di Ostrogorsky (russo trapiantato in Serbia) é un'imponente opera di ricostruzione della storia dell'Impero Bizantino.
Ma soprattutto, cosa piú importante, riesce benissimo a colmare molto di quel "buco nero" di cui parlavo, chiarendomi bene molti eventi storici ed offrendomi molte nozioni che non andavo neanche cercando (la storia dell'Impero Bizantino é legata a doppio filo a quella dei popoli slavi dei Balcani, altra nebulosa difficile da dipanare con il solo sapere scolastico).Il che mi aiuterá a sentirmi meno disorientato quando mi aggireró nei pressi di Santa Sofia.
Molto interessante.Per quanto può essere interessante l'aggrovigliata storia millenaria dell'Impero Romano d'Oriente, sospesa fra momenti di grandezza imperiale (nel vero senso della parole) e crisi infinite, incomprensibili e infinite dispute religiose e pragmatica amministrazione del territorio.Pur seguendo vie del tutto autonome, anche l'Impero Bizantino si andò medievalizzando andando ad assumere forme sempre più simili al sistema feudale dell'Occidente, perdendo in questo la sua forza (militare - basata su eserciti di contadini-soldati che saranno tutti assorbiti dai grandi latifondi feudali - e politica).
I bought this book a few years ago when I was documenting for a roleplay game set in the years before the First Crusade.I am only an amateur enthusiast of history, so my initial knowledge about the intricacies of the Byzantine Empire were very superficial.
This book has served as an introduction to this period of history, and as a source of organized and moderately deep information.
As well as a guide for further study.Even to this day is my reference book on the Eastern Empire.
Its comprehensive chronological treatment and its attempt to shake off the stereotypes of classical historiography on this period make it particularly revolutionary for the time it was written.
Very metal. Comprehensive, sober scholarship. Includes survey of documentary evidence underlying each section. Paperback is missing all of the maps in the hardback. Perfect otherwise. Runs from Constantine the Great through the conquest of the City of Men's Desires.Title is accurate, as it is primarily a political history in the standard manner, with attention to major personalities, institutions, and processes.
The standard against which all histories of Byzantium are measured.
Is there grade 6?This book is THE book for anybody that is interested in Bizant.Ostrogorsky made amazing work.You won't be bored with this one.
A bit dated but still a good read. Thick with political, cultural and military history of the Byzantine state.
Testo fondamentale per studiosi e non, unico viaggio ormai possibile in un mondo estinto, come nessun film mai potrà raccontarvelo
This was a fantastic overview of the Byzantine State from its inception through its fall to the Turks - especially illuminating is the enumeration and evaluation of extant primary sources at the beginning of each section.
One of the best books I read in a long time, strongly recommended to anyone who wants to acquire a profound knowledge of this great Empire, its history and its administrative system and culture as well. Perfect for getting in touch with some less known aspects of East Roman Empire and also provides a basis for more thorough researsch for those striving for more. Exceptionally well written, by non-fiction standards.
En el segundo capítulo se trata: la lucha por la excelencia del Imperio Bizantino y la renovación del Estado, las invasiones árabes, la salvación de Constantinopla, la plasmación de la reforma de Heraclio y la caída de la dinastía Heracliana.
En el último y octavo capítulo se trata: la decadencia y la caída del Imperio Bizantino, Bizancio convertido en potencia de segundo orden, la época de las guerras civiles, la conquista de la península Balcánica por los osmanlíes y Bizancio como estado vasallo de los turcos.
This is not a book for specific interests, for example Runciman's 'The Fall of Constantinople 1453' gives a much more detailed and emotive account of the final years.
Ostrogorsky deals with the hard facts painstakingly researched and although this may not appeal to some, his work is as wholly comprehensive as you can expect from a book covering a thousand or so years of history.
This is what I expect from such an expansive work about such an expansive subject and for this reason it is one of the best 'history' books I have ever read, wholly successful in its aim.
It is a thousand or so years of a great empires rise and fall.
If not, well, you should read something else.Byzantium was an empire carved out of a rock and a hard place.
Viewed as an Eastern state by Europe and as a European state by its Middle-Eastern neighbors, Byzantium maintained an uneasy balance between these two worlds that you can still see today in modern-day Turkey.This book covers much of this history and has plenty of interesting details about the people of this empire.
The book is VERY dry, however, and will probably test your endurance in a few places.
Amazingly engrossing book that covers the entire history of the Eastern Roman/Byzantine Empire, from its founding to its fall to the Turks roughly a thousand years later.
After finishing this book, I know infinitely more than I used to before, and it definitely made me want to read up more on specific eras and emperors.
It's a downer knowing what would eventually happen in the end.
After reading so much about its struggles for survival, and some times the years of splendor and might it succeeded in having.
No matter how many centuries and situations they went through, they always saw themselves as romans, till the bitter end.
Fascinating book about an important empire that the West does not know much about. For over 1000 years, this State ruled the Eastern Mediterranean. This starts from before the division of the Roman Empire to soon after the fall to the Ottomans. Rulers came and went, invaders came, won and lost. Religious leaders squabbled. Tax systems were effective and not. The military was effective and then not. A fascinating empire to learn on how not to maintain a strong state. Those that do not know history are doomed to repeat it, right?
What Edward Gibbon is to ancient Rome, Ostrogorsky is to Rome's successor state, the Greek, Christian eastern portion of the Roman Empire that scholars titled the Byzantine Empire.
A must for anyone serious about Byzantium, but good grief, the driest book ever written.
I wanted to know more about BysantiumI bought it and I read itI was more than satisfied
once again I have an older edition (684 pp!) and have only read two-thirds of it. Undisplaced!
I'll comment later.
Informative but dry...
A bit dry, but it's pretty comprehensive. I feel that some of the gaps in my knowledge (chasms, really) have been filled.
byzantium, byz-la-ema-owned
A heavy tome, well worth having in your library.
un classico. Sara' pure datato, ma resta uno dei migliori studi su Bisanzio. Peccato per la leggibilita'...
