https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/7631105-the-scorch-trials
During this entire book, I counted how many times Thomas ended up passing out or sleeping either at the end of a chapter or paragraph and did you want to know what the finally count was?  29.  29 times this guy blacked out!! Out of 360 pages, Thomas left you with the cliff hanger of "and finally he slept" 29 times. Sounds fun, doesn't it?If this didn't annoy you at all, reread this book (NOT RECOMMENDED) and realize that this dude spent most of his life passed out. Then try to tell me you didn't
During this entire book, I counted how many times Thomas ended up passing out or sleeping either at the end of a chapter or paragraph and did you want to know what the finally count was?
Then try to tell me you didn't notice it.Although this book was fast passed, a lot of it was filler and this book could really just have been shrunken into about 100 pages at the max.I gave this book 2 stars only because James Dashner was able to create such real characters by giving them actual human qualities.
What the hell? Even though I have sometimes enjoyed a book and not really liked the sequel, it's very rare that I would love one and absolutely hate the other. I desperately tried to finish it but I was bored, I kept getting distracted by either my family, my cats or some random fluff on the carpet... so I just skim-read it to the end and gave myself a basic idea of what the conclusion was. I truly loved The Maze Runner, even though quite a few people found it annoying - particularly the protag
Thomas was even more annoying, we'd already lost the best character (Chuck) at the end of book one and the story just didn't grab me.
Where The Maze Runner was structured and clever, this story all felt a bit random and haphazard.
Plus, Thomas must be both the most boring and unrealistic character ever.Another thing that annoyed me in both books, but stood out more in this one because it didn't have a gripping plot to distract me from it, is that the author tells you everything.
How can an author start a trilogy with such a fascinating world-building, create endearing and strong characters and build up suspense and intrigue inside a complex and admirable plot…and then write this?That’s right, I’m extremely disappointed in Mr. Dashner.
Unlike in the first book, Thomas doesn’t slowly build relationships with others around him (new people he meets) … he keeps to himself as much as he can, when Brenda and Teresa are not around and that just remove a lot of the charm I thought he once had.
I don't know how to write a review for this book without it sounding like a full-out rant.
Putting the main characters aside, it seemed like Dashner just threw up his hands and said "Oh, shuck it!" when it came to giving the other Gladers even a splash of personality.
While that's all fine and dandy, the thing that's irksome is that there is no way every single one of these mysteries will be explained in the last book.
The important outcomes of this book can be summarized in about three sentences; I feel like Dashner wrote it just to make the series a trilogy.Anyway, sorry for being a rambling Debbie Downer.
It's not like writing in caps is going to get your point across any further." But I just had to, because my brain is bursting at the seams after reading The Scorch Trials.I love Thomas' name!
I know my enthusiasm is quite unnecessary, but I've never seen the name Thomas used for the protagonist of a book.
There was something in the book about killing someone to get food...
I don't think I would kill for the next book in the series, because then I'd be sent to the crazy place, but I still want it really really bad.
The lyrical genius of Dashner brings out such heart-wrenching emotions that I often have to pause to collect myself.  “Anybody else wanna pee their pants and cry for mommy?”  Thomas's innermost thoughts have this je ne sais quoi.  I felt her absence. It was like waking up one day with no teeth in your mouth..  (Somebody, please, send help)What the mess is happening to this plot? Instead of a giant maze, we are faced with the zombie apocalypse and a desert.  Whiplash.  Essentially, we have a few
I'm absolutely torn as to whether I disliked the lazy writing or the shoe-horned romance more.
Anyone else notice that every twist and turn plays perfectly into  WICKED's Evil Grand Plan.But don't worry, whenever things become absolutely hopeless...there's convenient reemergence of essential memories so that they can continue along WICKED's path.
Anytime something inexplicable happens (which happens a lot), Dashner throws out the either the memory-wipe or the all-knowing-government excuse.
It's such a cop-out.Honestly, Dashner keeps trying to make WICKED a thing but it just doesn't work for me.
THE SHOE-HORNED ROMANCE
There's more.What's better than a shoe-horned romance?
Sorry to break the bad news But...Guys..You have to Run Again...No no, not the maze..but here..Welcome to the new Trial...And Thomas, Remember..WICKED is Good so shuckin' Wicked "فيروس الأيبولا الدموي ينتشر في العالم وظهور حالة بنيويورك..الأحتباس الحراري وصل لمرحلة متقدمة... وجماعات تنادي بانقاذ القطب الشمالي"هل مازلت تعتقد ان احداث تلك الرواية مستحيل تحققها في المستقبل؟؟اذا شاهدت -واعجبك- الفيلم الأول , لا تنتظر الجزء الثاني وابدأ فورا في قراءة الروايةتعبت من الجري مع توماس واصدقاءه في المتاهة,
Sorry to break the bad news But...Guys..You have to Run Again...No no, not the maze..but here..Welcome to the new Trial...And Thomas, Remember..WICKED is Good so shuckin' Wicked
"فيروس الأيبولا الدموي ينتشر في العالم وظهور حالة بنيويورك..الأحتباس الحراري وصل لمرحلة متقدمة...
وجماعات تنادي بانقاذ القطب الشمالي"هل مازلت تعتقد ان احداث تلك الرواية مستحيل تحققها في المستقبل؟؟اذا شاهدت -واعجبك- الفيلم الأول , لا تنتظر الجزء الثاني وابدأ فورا في قراءة الروايةتعبت من الجري مع توماس واصدقاءه في المتاهة, التقط انفاسك لأنك ستبدأ الجري في متغيرات اخري وتذكرWICKED is Good so shuckin' Wicked
3 starsI seriously don't know how to feel about this. It's a total mess.I loved the first book, but I am not sure I like this one that much.I don't enjoy the writing style at all. I didn't mind it in the first book, but in the second it just became more unbearable.I loved the characters in the first one, now I don't even care for them at all.Not sure if I will read the last one.
Holy klunk, this book is INSANE!!!!!!!!!!!
So Thomas and the Gladers have escaped the horrors of the maze, only to be thrown into a world even worse than the one they left behind.
Thomas, Minho, Newt and the others must fight these cranks and follow instructions given to them by the mysterious WICKED.
When another group turn up, who have also just escaped a maze similar to their own, the boys are even more confused.
Non-stop action with twists and turns everywhere, I’ve been loving my reread of this series and can not wait to carry on!
For the Scorch Trials, I still wanted to play the mom, but the kind that whacks you a new one so you'll sort your shit out.How the hell did you go from this:To this:Half the book was you mooning over Teresa and this other girl, Brenda.
That life could be good.""Oddly, the thing that stood out the most to Thomas was Teresa's last name.""Thomas found himself hoping she was the Brenda girl Jorge had mentioned.""Brenda didn't take her eyes off Thomas.
You're not characters, you're props used to further Thomas's love life.
That only made me love you more because you were reacting exactly like an a scared teenage boy.
A film adaptation was released on September 18, 2015 by 20th Century Fox. The book starts with Thomas and the other teenagers known as "Gladers", who had escaped from the Maze in the previous book, sleeping in the dormitory they were brought to by a group of rescuers.
The boys then discover tattoos on their necks assigning them specific roles.تاریخ نخستین خوانش: روز پنجم ماه اکتبر سال 2016 میلادیعنوان: دشت جهنم؛ نوشته: جیمز دشنر؛ مترجم: آیدا کشوری؛ تهران، نشر بهداد، 1394، در 430 ص، کتاب دوم از سه گانه ی دونده هزارتو؛ شابک: 9786009356157؛ موضوع: مجموعه داستانهای سه گانه از نویسندگان امریکایی - سده 21 مگمان می‌کردند حل هزارتو پایان کار باشد...
Una segunda parte de la que esperaba poco y que me ha sorprendido gratamente. Me ha gustado bastante, aunque no tanto como El corredor del laberinto.Eso sí, veo algunos cabos sueltos y personajes que no han evolucionado nada.¡Con ganas de leer el tercero ya!
Firstly, this was by no means as good as the first book.
I felt like Mr. Dashner put all the characters and had them running around like pigs for nothing.
It kind of got on my nerves and frustrated the hell out of me.The only reason I gave this 3 stars is because it finally picked up on the last 70 pages or so and more happened in those pages than the rest of the book.
I mean alright, I love me some tight cliffhanger but this one was a bit too baffling for me to handle.
I'm more confused than ever!!!
I am FLYING through these books!Okay now it feels like the movie and the book are two completely different things.
Again, I'm not complaining.
I love both of them but I do admit that it was hard picturing all the 'new' scenarios since my mind kept going back to the movie ones.Can we just take a moment to appreciate Newt?
Such a sweety...ugh I love him.Oh also...
Minho's character's a bit unrefined..borderline rude.
I mean I know I sound like a kid 'O my gosh he ish sho rood' i just think the movie Minho is better.
I was expecting things to finally clear up at the end of this book, instead I was left with even more questions than before...Up until 80% I really enjoyed the story though, and I'll probably read book 3 as well, because I just have to know how all of this is going to play out. 3.5 Stars.
Where the first book was so insanely mysterious and really baited you along in finding out what was going on, I feel like I don't want to know what's going on anymore.
It just felt so repetitive by the end, and Thomas's endless "Oh Teresa I love you, wait I hate you, wait where's Brenda I miss her" became grating on my nerves.I don't even feel like overlaying the plot.
We know Thomas and Teresa helped WICKED out.
I almost feel like I want answers less to the big questions, but more to these really really odd occurrences.And then there's the new Group B of girls that we learn have to kill Thomas.
Just when they think they are all safe and in a place where there is food and water and showers and bed...
They wake up from their little safe place to all kinds of weirdness, dead people hanging from the ceiling, cranks (crazy sick people) trying to get in the windows, Teresa gone and replaced by a boy named Aris, and other stuff.
He's just reading like nothing is going on while the boys gorge themselves on food.
You know, the run of the mill kind of stuff.
although WICKED did show up a few times in the book, but they are still secretive and I want to smack them!
I read this book for the first time a couple of years ago and I honestly could barely remember anything that happens...
The bromance and sass between the gladers in what stood out to me because it's just so great and I feel like the maze runner movie didn't quite grasp it.
The twists in the story get my every time and I really don't know how to feel!
And if any of you are thinking "I might re-read it before the movie comes out" then I recommend you do it because I assure you that you'll not regret it!!
OH SHIT, IT LOOKS AMAZING. SOME TEASER PHOTOS FOR THE SCORCH TRIALS MOVIE.There's more but these are the best, WHO ELSE IS EXCITED?
“The betrayal meant he couldn't trust her anymore, and his heart told him he couldn't forgive her.”  This book is as good as the first one, but honestly, the movie sucks. I legit adored the ideas in The Maze Runner. James Dashner successfully delivered enjoyment to me when reading his books. In The Scorch Trials, the game is changed, they don't run away anymore but have to find something or someone instead. The first 30% of the book was refreshing regarding that I did want to take a break from
“The betrayal meant he couldn't trust her anymore, and his heart told him he couldn't forgive her.” 
James Dashner successfully delivered enjoyment to me when reading his books.
In The Scorch Trials, the game is changed, they don't run away anymore but have to find something or someone instead.
Still I found this exciting and had everything I could have asked for.Thomas doesn't develop much in the second book.
I've seen the bigger scale of the story in this book that Dashner intended to show us since The Maze Runner.
I didn't quite feel any connection to the new ones, to be honest.
from Maze to Desertmystery to tedium...magic gone; I fled
It's unbelievable!James Dashner as once again created a none stop, action packed adventure that will blow your ever loving Shuck-Sticks-Cranked mind.With new characters and all your favorite crazed-lingo-Gladers, comes a story of constant struggle to survive, a once again, Trial that are even more terrifying, dangerous and insane as The Maze.The Scorch is a hot mess of deadly obstacles that are created by the (seemingly good) WICKED (World In Catastrophe Killzone Experiment Department) and set up to test the survived Gladers.
I want more and I can't freaken believe we have to wait a YEAR to find out what the hell is gonna happen nextKilling me James, Killing me!Just Shuck it and read this now!!
Post-apocalyptic Nightmare!Wow, The Scorch Trials was definitely a bizarre mind trip, and after everything that was revealed and unfolded, I can’t wait to see how this series ends.
For pretty much the entire novel you have no idea why The Gladers are being put through these trials as they fight biotech armies, harsh weather conditions, and constant mental games.
I can’t tell you how amazed I am with his ability to come up with the most bizarre of elements that keep me, the reader, constantly wondering where he intends to take the story and what other crazy twists he can come up with.
Lame.
After a promising start with The Maze Runner, this book tries to keep the tension going by not answering any of the questions set up by its predecessor.
Unfortunately, this just means it devolves very quickly into not making any sense and the characters lose what little they had to talk about in the first book.
So the main character just blunders through a bunch of stuff asking questions that never get answered and repeating the entire story of the first book to everyone he meets.
Still confusing and lame, but shorter.
The Scorch TrialsThis was an awesome books, however not as good as the first.
I loved all the mystery and constant suspense, although Thomas seemed to be sleeping or passing out a lot in this book :')I feel like not a lot happened, yet a lot did at the same time.
This book definitely took a different turn and was very different to The Maze Runner.
I'm excited to see how this ends, because I've heard very controversial things about it!These books are great so far and I really want to pick up some more of James Dashner's work in the future!
No sabía a qué esperarme de este libro y la verdad me ha sorprendido. Me sentí muy decepcionada y traicionada y confusa en casi todo el libro pero supongo que es esto lo que James quiere. Espero que acaben ya con los juegos y ver que pasa por que me estoy poniendo muy nerviosa.
Buena secuela, que cambia un poco el tono del primer libro. No me pareció tan bueno, pero entretiene lo suficiente, que es lo que principalmente pido en este tipo de literatura.
Por otro lado, me gusta mucho la interacción Thomas-Newt-Minho los diálogos entre ellos se ven como los de amigos normales, que se echan tierra cuando hay que hacerlo, se ríen, se enojan, pero al final son amigos y se apoyan, de lejos es lo mejor del libro.
A mi los tres chicos principales me gustan mucho, sobretodo Newt, y eso hace que le siga teniendo cariño a la historia :D Si lo que quieres es un libro sin mucho desarrollo pero entretenido y con personajes variados y bien expuestos, creo que The Maze Runner es una buena opción.
