https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/13912.A_Beautiful_Mind
ولأن المصري معروف بجبروتهبتكون نهاية واحد من أعظم علماء الأرض بسببسواق تاكسي مصري قرر ياخد غرزة و يعدي العربية اللي قدامه فلبس في حاجز وراحت العبقرية فدا للفهلوة المصرية:\ما يهون هذه الفاجعة أنهما رحلا سويالتكتمل واحدة من أجمل قصص الحب الواقعية  My quest has taken me through the physical, the metaphysical, the delusional -- and back.  جون ناش هو واحد من أنبغ علماء الرياضياتولكن ذلك ليس كل شيءفناش لم يكن من البداية طبيعياكان ناش يحمل في داخله وحشا يهدد بالتهام أجزاء عقله الجميلوحشا قاسيا اسمه الف
بينما تثبت الوثائق أنه كان يسكن وحده‏ثم هوس الشفرات السرية وتوهمه أنه يعمل مع المخابرات من أجل إنقاذ العالموهذه الكائنات التي كانت تحيطه كادت أن تفترسهظل ناش يتردد على المستشفيات لمدة ليست بالقصيرةفيها كادت أن تتدمر حياته من جميع النواحيبين جرعات الأنسولين وجلسات الكهرباءودوامة العقاقيرولكن كان هناك كائن ضئيل الحجم عظيم الإرادة فياض المحبةولأن مثل ذلك الكائن موجودتخاذل الوحش الكبير وابتعد شيئا فشيئا إلى ركن مهملمن زوايا العقل الجميل ‏
It is only in the mysterious equations of love that any logic or ‎reasons can be found.
I've always believed in numbers; and the equations and logics ‎that lead to reason.‎
Highly recommended book.I loved the movie,I've seen.Then,I had found it is based on a novel.Great story.How a great scientist flows with his intellects wrapped in complex mind.Epic dialogues and theme.I'm thankful to read the book and watched the movie.
A beautiful maind: a biography of Johan Forbes Nash, Sylvia NasarA Beautiful Mind (1998) is a biography of Nobel Prize-winning economist and mathematician John Forbes Nash, Jr. by Sylvia Nasar, professor of journalism at Columbia University.
An unauthorized work, it won the National Book Critics Circle Award in 1998 and was nominated for the Pulitzer Prize in biography.
It inspired the 2001 film by the same name.تاریخ نخستین خوانش: ماه فوریه سال 1999 میلادیعنوان: یک ذهن زیبا؛ نوشته: سیلویا ناسار؛ مترجم: مهگونه قهرمان؛ مشخصات نشر: تهران، عطایی، 1383، ، در 500 ص، شابک: 9643236256؛ موضوع: سرگذشتنامه جان ناش، ریاضیدانان ایالات متحده امریکا، برندگان جایزه نوبل - سده 20 ما.
شربیانی
The book is about the life story of John Forbes Nash - a mathematical genius and inventor of a theory of rational behaviour for which he was awarded a Nobel Prize in 1994. Presenting a characterization of schyzophrenia, the author helps in informing the reader about the circumstances under which a spontaneous recovery from his dementing and degenerative disease believed to be so rare, became a possibility for John Nash. Finally, the story of Nobel Prize winner John Forbes Nash, Jr. proves that psychiatrists are wrong about schyzophrenia being a brain disease like Alzheimers and Parkinson's.
Nash lived (still is living, I guess) a really complicated life, even aside from his illness.
It's difficult, I guess, because most of what he worked on was extremely abstruse stuff -- even to someone who has studied a reasonable amount of (mostly applied) math.
(Which is probably why it was able to become important in economics circles.) His other works are so involved that I have trouble parsing the statement of the theorems, let alone the proofs.But really, this is the story of his life.
Like all of us, he lived a complicated, difficult life.
More complicated and difficult than many, but still a very human life.
John Forbes Nash, Jr. is a mathematical genius whose extraordinary mind developed the structure for what became known as Game Theory – revolutionizing both mathematics and economics in the second half of the twentieth century.
It is also about John’s wife Alicia, who set aside her own desires to try to guide John through a world that had become hostile to him.Ultimately, Sylvia Nasar succeeds with A Beautiful Mind because she leaves out most of the heavy-handed mathematics and focuses on who John Nash is and what his life represents.
That is what makes John Nash’s story so important – A Beautiful Mind demonstrates that anyone’s life can be turned around.
The book conveys a convincing portrayal of mental illness; but, it is unpleasant to read. I found that I didn't enjoy spending so much time with a person who, in addition to being a genius, and mentally ill, was basically a creep. The movie was better - mainly because the screenplay converted Nash into a more likeable guy (helped to be played by Russell Crow). If you haven't read the book or seen the movie - I recommend the latter. But keep in mind it's not a terribly truthful portrayal.
She is no doubt a wonderful researcher, but includes details so small as to call into question her own sanity, let alone the sanity of her subject.This book was a lot like watching someone else's home movies.
For about the first 49 chapters you could literally skip all the odd chapters and not really miss anything.There were a few moments of interesting detail, mostly surrounding the Nobel Prize and applications of Nash's work.
Also, I found the details of Princeton in the 50's and 60's interesting since I live near there.
"'How could you,' Mackey asked, 'how could you, a mathematician, a man devoted to reason and logical proof.
(The movie was terrific, but often bore little resemblance to reality.) At twenty-one he had invented a theory of modern human behavior and his contributions to game theory would ultimately win him a Nobel Prize.
As a young professor he solved some mathematical problems deemed "impossible" by other mathematicians.
Unlike Von Neumann who had focused on the group, Nash, in his twenty-seven-page dissertation thesis proposed a theory for game "in which there was a possibility of mutual gain.
A Beautiful Mind   is one of those books that I loved so much, and learned so much from reading that I've yet to actually review it. However, in light of the news that the man behind the eponymous mind,  John Forbes Nash Jr.,  is no longer with us I thought I'd at least take the time to recommend the book, if not to explain why.
3,4/5 (Some Mild Spoilers Ahead) What I struggled most with,reading this book,was young Nash’s personality .
I’ve studied his equilibrium theory in faculty with one of the best professors that I’ve ever had, so that, too ,was a reason for not disliking this book more.
I believe that Hollywood did with this story exactly was Hollywood does all the time: it erased big chunks of Nash’s personality in order to fit Hollywood’ standards.Crow’s character is merely a shadow of real Nash.With all this in mind, I don’t regret reading A Beautiful Mind,but I don’t believe I’ll ever come back , to the film or this book.
Audiobook #230
It's almost impossible to say how much of Nash's (how to put this?) dickish behaviour was due to his as-yet-undiagnosed schizophrenia but it is clear (to this reader, anyway) that the man was a rather unlikeable individual long before he became ill.I don't, however, only want to read about people I'd like to have a drink with and, despite the rather unsavoury aspects of Nash's character, this is undeniably a fascinating book and I'm very glad I read it.
I recommend it to anybody who has seen the movie version that would like to know the truth behind the Hollywood fairytale.It's also made me want to read more about game theory...
It's the fascinating story of an arrogant young mathematician who began his career with genius-level work in mathetmatics, succumbed to paranoid schizophrenia in his thirties, and ultimately experienced a remission in the late 80s and was awarded the Nobel Prize for his early work in game theory.Reading about Nash's early life and the beginning of his career, I couldn't help but notice that he was always rather an odd duck, even before he became delusional and was diagnosed as schizophrenic.
At this remove, I cannot remember any details.
We either had the book as well, or, if not, I was picking my husband's brain on the story's mathematical aspects.
The story was well told, very moving; the aspects relating to his schizophrenia passed muster with me.
Later we saw the film, and I was appalled; thought the schizophrenia had been reworked to fit public expectations (to conform to some meme).
In the news article I read, all references were to the film; it was as though there had never been a book.
REAWAKENING: I count this book as inspiring not because it’s about a mathematician who solved problems in a snap which took lifetime to his colleagues just to understand them, but because of his determination to deal with his delusions, his will to cope with his illness, his awareness to revitalize his relations with people (who considered him as mad by the time) around him and his remarriage with Alicia Nash again and his reawakening state as a whole (Perhaps this is the best part of the whole book).
I hardly finished part one of this book, it's too slow, filled with information and details even about John Nash's friends, the writer wanted to give us a full picture about John Nash's life and the people around him , but it seemed as if she wanted to have more pages filled.I liked the Idea of reading about a Mathematician but it was enough with the writer...John Nash is an interesting extraordinary man, I liked him through the documentary and the movie but not the novel.
here are people stories living with schizophrenia https://youtu.be/-8RhNMRyKG0https://youtu.be/48YJMOcykvcI liked the movie (3.5 stars) and I watched a documentary about his life which was much better than the book itself.
One of my every now and then favorites,John Nash is a role model & a distinguished spring of inspiration to those who believe in their own worlds,other than moving unconsciously on the roads of the others' ones,RIP JOHN with your beloved,dedicated wife Alicia Lopez-Harrison de Lardéwho he said about,in his Nobel Prize acceptance Speech:-"I'm only here tonight because of you,you are the reason I'm,you are all my reasons"
He's a total a-hole.In fact, judged by the contents of the quite detailed book, Nash is a grade A jerk, the kind of guy you'd rather punch in the teeth than appreciate or get to know.
The movie contrives scenes for the sake of drama and totally glosses over critical aspects of Nash's life, such as his bisexuality, the ignoble way he treated his first family (including an illegitmate son) in Boston, or even that whole "math" thing he was so good at.
Also, Nash's general "jerk-ishness" is really toned down in the movie, despite being on center stage in the book.
One cannot avoid the temptation of reading the book, after watching the movie; twice. The movie is excellent in the way it describes schizophrenia (a form of); better than many textbooks. One can actually see the mind at work of a math genius called Nash and even empathize with his afflictions; his inner struggle.From nearly the onset of the pathology, to its development, treatment and some recovery (by Nash's free will...and his wife's love), the movie tells a story through time: Nash while
One can actually see the mind at work of a math genius called Nash and even empathize with his afflictions; his inner struggle.From nearly the onset of the pathology, to its development, treatment and some recovery (by Nash's free will...and his wife's love), the movie tells a story through time: Nash while a student in college through his several jobs (even those imaginary!) till his final recognition as a Nobel-prize winner for his work in the mathematics and economics fields.
The sum of a manin: https://www.theguardian.com/books/200...“Mathematicians are comparatively sane as a group.
If he thought the question was foolish he wouldn’t answer at all.
Because I see several friends who had it as "to-read" 3 years ago still have not read it, and they should!I enjoyed the movie that is loosely based on this book.
The movie took the real life of John Nash, trimmed off many of the unsightly bits, polished it up and added some color.
Makes for a very good movie, but not an accurate biography.Sylvia Nassar gives us the real John Nash, in all his too-human glory, warts and all.
Her research and interviews were clearly exhaustive, and her presentation of Nash's life is well-written and multi-layered.If there is ever some reason for my biography to be written, I want Sylvia Nassar to do it.
This was one of my favorite reads of 2017. I never thought I would be so interested in details about math theorems, math colleges, and history of math. Apart from the rich setting, I quite enjoyed learning about Nash, and I learned so much more about him than from watching the movie based on this biography (naturally).Anyways, I love this book so so much. It has been 4 months since I read it, and I still feel fuzzy and warm inside when I spot it on my shelf ♥
Why, I wondered, had I picked a book about a mathematician I'd personally never heard of?
And then as Nash drew closer to middle age, at the time when he should have been riding the top of the wave, his eccentricity degenerated into outright schizophrenia and cost him his job, his marriage and his rational mind.And THEN--I feel like one of those commercials, "Wait!
There's more!"--after years spent in asylums he somehow managed to emerge from insanity and THEN, something like 40 years after he'd done the work, he was awarded a Nobel Prize for his contribution to game theory.
A beautiful book (and movie).
A seguito dell’assegnazione nel 1994 del premio in memoria di Alfred Nobel (istituito dalla Banca di Svezia) a John Forbes Nash Jr, la giornalista del New York Times Sylvia Nasar fu incaricata di redigere alcuni articoli dedicati al matematico: le singolari e drammatiche vicende della vita di Nash colpirono profondamente Nasar e la indussero a passare i successivi tre anni a raccogliere informazioni e documenti per scrivere la prima biografia dell’ormai illustre matematico, uscita nel 1998 e diventata un libro di successo.Si tratta di una biografia del matematico, ma soprattutto dell’uomo Nash, la cui vita viene narrata in ordine rigorosamente cronologico: l’infanzia e i primi segni di genialità, i rapporti con la famiglia, la giovinezza e gli studi universitari, il lavoro di matematico, la relazione con Eleanor Stier e quella con Alicia Lardé, i due figli, gli incarichi presso la RAND e a Princeton.
Update of 7/2017: I recently learned that John Nash had a letter of recommendation written by Herbert Simon, he of the Nobel Prize deconstructing Rational Model Theory.
Who knows, maybe Nash and Simon were working on the same problems in some way.
But it appears that Nash was already of two minds in early university days: his own and Simon's.
Then again, have you ever noticed how many bank clerks, librarians, grammar school teachers, and accountants become paranoid, tinpot dictators somehow?Original review:John Nash won his Nobel for economic models based on game theory.
Toccante, sorprendente. Nonostante le informazioni superflue, sono stata totalmente trascinata dalla vicenda di questo grande uomo, che ha dedicato la sua vita a ciò che più amava. Un grande esempio di speranza, lotta e determinazione. Mi ha segnata!
I remember being mesmerized by Russel Crowe's performance in the movie. I hadn't heard of Nash before and was hooked since. Nassar's book provides a wealth of detail about the maverick Nobel Laureate and a glimpse into his amazing life.
I never would have thought a book on a real life person to be more interesting than the fictitious movie the book had inspired.
For me, that was the most interesting part of the book while the second act, where he became to regress in his personal life was the one that made his story epic and surreal.
Although some parts of the book was deeply personal and it felt invasive knowing about his marriage life and his life with his family, it didn't let go of the basic human story this book carry.What the book reveal to its audience was that this man who suffered manic depression, despite his gifts in logical and problem solving and impressive academic career, is still as human as us.
If you want to find out about an awful guy getting an awful disease and ruining the lives of everybody that got close to him, then read the book.
She describes the mystery world of schizophrenia as seen through the eyes of those people most hurt by it, the family and friends of John Nash.
Sylvia Nasar doesn’t hero worship though, she paints it as she sees it.The book is written fairly monotonously and is not that easy to read, though I did finish it in two sittings.
Ultimately the book is worth reading simply because of its honesty.
