https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/11300302-alice-in-zombieland
Whether or not you enjoy this book depends on what you were expecting to begin with. No Really. Look at that cover, reread the synopsis and decide right now what you’re hoping from this book. Is it:a) A dark, twisted retelling of Alice in Wonderland with zombie creatures?b) A high school melodrama about ghost/zombies with no real Alice in Wonderland connection.If you thought B then good for you. Read this book. If you thought A then back the hell off now. This is not the book for you and you wil
From the title and the vague syn­op­sis I believed that this would be an Alice going into zom­bieland and deal­ing with a dark, unset­tling, gory ver­sion of Won­der­land with many of the themes and sym­bol­ism from the orig­i­nal story mod­ern­ized and reimag­ined in this book.
I thought this was going to be a book ver­sion of Amer­i­can McGee’s Alice.Now, just to make it clear.
Going into this I had a really good feeling that I wouldn't like it and I was right.
First problem is I don't like zombies (which is obviously a personal preference thing), second problem is the fact that this is just a superficial high school drama, and the third and biggest problem for me is the fact that this is not a damn Alice in Wonderland retelling.
People had warned me about that going in but I thought I'd at least get something considering the title of this and it's sequels but NOPE I was lied to.
Overall this just made me feel annoyed.
She was so pathetic in front of him, and the fact that after they meet Cole is pretty much the only thing in her mind didn't help at all.There's also Ali's annoying friend, Kat. She meets her at the hospital cause Kat's mom works there and all she does is talk and talk and gossip and it's so friggin annoying that I wanted to reach into the pages of the book just to slap the shit outta her.What I'm most most most sad about is of course the faux Alice in Wonderland retelling.
Creative zombie ghosts lore (… you heard me.
Really, all I need are zombies.
Ali leads this story with a tough, head held high attitude; she's feisty with a great sense of humor that I got a kick out of.
Spunky, wild, and lots of fun, Kat is a fabulous girl who I came to adore.
The Hazmats add a great mysterious edge to the plot which also opens up intriguing possibilities for its sequel.
All of this adds up to a refreshingly unique little paranormal romance.There is humor, there are zombies, there are witty characters, even the chapter titles are hilarious!
Zombies are hunting her down and she's got no idea in what rabbit hole she got herself into.I really have to say I loved this book a lot.
Never read so much about them to be honest, but boy didn't I love this book.Call it a retelling isn't exactly right, though.
I'll call it an inspired on book, but that doesn't mean it isn't enjoyable at all, it was pretty cool.Alice was such a joy to read.
Loved 'em all.I'm so intrigued, though.Why Alice has those zombie-like thoughts?
I like reading macabre zombie tales and even though you don’t find the traditional zombies here, the new type of zombies that Showalter introduced were just as savage and even though they weren’t the shambling types, their role in the story was the least disappointing Okay, I admit, I wanted them screaming “BWWAAAIIINNNSSS”…but oh well.Anyways, let’s talk about the actual storyline for a while before I start seeing red thinking about those irritating characters, hmm?We have Alice Bell, a 16-year old, as our protagonist who has a lunatic for a father, a submissive, loving woman for a mother and a larger than life 8-year old for a sister.
Buuuut the bad news is that without the Alice retelling or true zombies you're left with a very cliche, shallow high school drama of angsty teens, instalove, alpha males, and obnoxious characters.
The writing was fine, though, so I still kept reading.I guess this really wasn't what I was looking for.
That wasn't my problem.
And I'm not sure that the problem is that I'm growing out of this target audience because I do still have fun with high school stories with a "younger" tone.
I just need a fun & compelling plot as well...

LOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOL! Sweet Jesus, Ali is not your typical sit-back-and-take-it heroine -- she's wild for a girl who looks like a doll, and I SERIOUSLY LOVE THAT. Go kick some invisible zombie butt, Ali! (: ♥----- Alice in Zombieland  is, quite frankly, not what I was expecting. It's BETTER. It ROCKS. It totally KICKED ASS, which I guess should've been expected of a Gena Showalter book incorporating zombies into my favourite childhood story. I always used to want to go to Wonderland b
Sweet Jesus, Ali is not your typical sit-back-and-take-it heroine -- she's wild for a girl who looks like a doll, and I SERIOUSLY LOVE THAT.
It totally KICKED ASS, which I guess should've been expected of a Gena Showalter book incorporating zombies into my favourite childhood story.
He proves his worth a million times when he kills zombies, protects Ali, and puts up with her stubborn streaks like a guy with a gold medal in the PERFECT BOOK BOYFRIEND category.
They were a perfect, sizzling, and amazing duo!)What I love about Ali is that she wants to help out almost immediately.
✩ 0.5 Stars ✩ *walks up to mic**tap*tap*tap* *clears throat*Are you ready for this??? Are you absolutely certain?! Because I don’t even have a  star defined on my rating system... ◈ ▹▹▹ WARNING: RANT AHEAD! ◃◃◃ ◈ What I was anticipating: -» Zombies! -» An Alice in Wonderland retelling -» A Harlequin Teen romanceWhat I was given: -» Lies!Lies!Lies! “She won't rest until she's sent every walking corpse back to its grave. Forever.” Oooooookay, let’s address the giant elephant first. Whoever is resp
There are NO REANIMATED WALKING CORPSES—therefore there are NO ZOMBIES in Alice in Zombieland.
A new twist would be traits or actions of zombies, how to kill or fight them, what they eat, where they’re located (you know, like Zombieland?!), the ability to control them, etc.
On the other hand, a new twist is NOT evil spirits that smell like rotting corpses and have a classic zombie appearance (a.k.a. Mfugly spirits).
For those of you who DNF this book because the first “meet cute” for Ali and whatshisname was that they locked eyes, went into a shared dreamscape, and basically had sex right there...
That’s not to say, however, that this book is not worth reading – it is, as it has several things going for it, but it’s not nearly as original or exciting as I’d hoped.The story is all too familiar: Ali’s entire family dies in a car accident caused by her schizophrenic father who was trying to save them from invisible monsters.
Alice is also a stock character, but unlike with Cole, Gena Showalter managed to breathe some true spirit into her, which is why she’s the only thing I’m sure I’ll remember about this book.
My Goodread friends have either really, really liked this book or really, really hated it. Now, I know why, and I have so many things to say about it - and not good ones.First of all, I thought this book was going to be a parody of Alice in Wonderland or have some kind of parallelism or allusion to it, but the only things that lined up were a character named Alice and the mention of a white rabbit - in this book, it was the stupid clouds. So yeah,  not much correlation to Alice in Wonderland. No
Now, I know why, and I have so many things to say about it - and not good ones.First of all, I thought this book was going to be a parody of Alice in Wonderland or have some kind of parallelism or allusion to it, but the only things that lined up were a character named Alice and the mention of a white rabbit - in this book, it was the stupid clouds.
(hide spoiler)] I know that Showalter plans to keep things for the sequel, but a book is incomplete when you don't even BEGIN to explain things.On a side note, 
I was obviously expecting too much from this book, because boy was I disappointed.Alice was an okay character, I felt sorry for her because of the way she lost her whole family, and the way she blamed herself for it.
It must have been really hard for her to find herself so alone, and to have to deal with the knowledge that the monsters her father raved about were actually real!The storyline in this revolved around Alice learning to fight zombies, and it got old real quick.
I felt like half the book was info-dump after info-dump, and I didn’t really care for the insta-love romance either.
Not much of an Alice book at all. But so much fun! Review to come.
I'm not kidding.(3) The heroine Alice (aka Ali) spends a lot of time drooling over the masculine bad boy love interest Cole and fantasizing about making out with him (again I'm not kidding) than grieving over her dead family and worrying about the crisis of zombies going around eating people for dinner.(Link: http://vampirekiki.deviantart.com/art...)(4) As to the zombies....they only have spiritual forms and they are 'eating' the goodness in people then in turn making them zombies too.
Zombies who eat people because they are evil!?
EvilI know, the heroine and her family are Christians, but must she keep talking nonsense about God so very often?
English review at the bottom¡¡¡Pasen, pasen todos a ver una nueva versión de libros de adolescentes de fantasía en la cual no encontrarás cosas nuevas!!!Hacer entrañable un libro es dificil, se necesitan aspecto únicos y originales que los lectores estén pidiendo así que este libro te gustará sí:  Querías ver a una adolescente insegura, que se siente culpable y poco atractiva (aunque toodos creen que es sexy), que repentinamente tiene que mudarse con un familiar al que casi no conoce. (view spoi
La parte "original"(view spoiler)[ que es cuando la malvada compañía que quiere aprovechar a los zombies para su beneficio secuestra a Alicia porque sus habilidades son muy especiales y mayores a las de cualquier otro cazador ,también es una inspiración de otro recurso que también es muy malo pero muy vendible: la saga cinematográfica de Resident Evil (hide spoiler)] tampoco es la gran cosa y, aunque serviría para que la historia se orientara hacía algo más interesante es muy desaprovechado, primero porque sucede ya pasado algo así como el 90% del libro y segundo por que es resuelto muy facilmente.
Gena Showalter has convinced me that this zombie book RULES and I just want more and more of this amazing and unique world.
Gena Showalter really delivers in her excellent storytelling and gives us readers little signs of the original Alice in Wonderland.
Another interesting part of this book was following Cole and Alice's romance, there's something very special that gives them a very deep connection, and even though we still don't know why this is, it still gives me hope that these two troubled characters can survive the battles and still remain in love.
This book was so fun!!!! “Never forget that evil is evil. You cannot change it. You cannot lead it to the light. But, if you let it, evil can lead you to the darkness.”  I loved this book, surprisingly. I was really hesitant and I had actually decided to not read it some time ago, but back in August I noticed my BFF Lauren wanted to read it and I thought it would be fun to read together...WELL, we finally got to it, and I enjoyed it immensely!The last "Alice and Wonderland" retelling I read was.
I was really hesitant and I had actually decided to not read it some time ago, but back in August I noticed my BFF Lauren wanted to read it and I thought it would be fun to read together...WELL, we finally got to it, and I enjoyed it immensely!The last "Alice and Wonderland" retelling I read was...not good.
I didn't enjoy it all that much - It turned me off to this book...but when L said she wanted to get to it this month, I was very much on board.
No details...but I will say, that the fact that I wanted to cry...makes me love this book all the more.
Alice in Zombieland is, in fact, a compulsively readable addition to its category, but in a genre turgid with paranormal tales of angst driven romance, it does little to set itself apart.While Alice does have much to recommend it—amongst them a fascinating, eminently creepy take on zombie lore, and a wonderful cast of secondary characters (none less than Alice’s fantastic best friend, Kat, and her sweet, funny grandparents)—it’s let down by two its most crucial players: Alice, and her love interest, Cole Holland.Alice, whilst a fairly engaging protagonist, feels somehow spurious, her voice sounding more like an adult attempting to channel a seventeen-year-old than an authentic teenage narrative.
The reading experience is kind of like making mud pies: Fun at the time, but leaves you feeling dirty.First Thoughts:Eh. How is it that a book can be this much of a mess, yet so compulsively readable?
The first thing I'm going to address about this book is the cover.
I love the cover and it's perfect for the book.
Before I go into the review I wanna say I'm not into zombie books.
Nor do I like or enjoy the concepts or books that are about zombies.
Cole was probably the most interesting character without him this book would have been one of the worst reads.
The whole zombie hunting group aspect of this book I hated.
Side note: I read this book because I thought it would have some resemblance to Alice in wonderland.
I enjoyed this one very much.I liked the plot, the characters, the "zombies", the story, but specially, I liked the romance. The romance is the main reason I gave it 4 stars. Usually, YA Fantasy books leave me wanting for more romance, but this one satisfied me so it gets 4 stars.
THAT. WAS. AMAZING! *grabby hands* I NEED the 2nd book in my hands. now.
Uncertain of what’s happening, Ali finds unexpected answers at her school, where she encounters a smoldering bad boy named Cole who seems to know what’s going on.
Despite the lack of white rabbits and hookah smoking caterpillars, this was still such a fun read and I found myself really enjoying it.Alice, also known as Ali, was a heroine that I actually found myself liking.
Like the fact that Ali just so happens to end up going to a school with a huge group of kids who just so happen to be able to see zombies, one of which who she just so happens to have some special love connection to… Yeah, she must just be really lucky.
Showalter just used Alice Bell's Name and cute things from the wonderland books like 'curiouser and curiouser' otherwise it was a completely new and very action packed start to a brilliant series that I can't wait to dig into.Alice's dad is crazy, certifiable.
her entire world is thrown and now she realizes her dad wasn't as crazy as she once thought.From there we meet a gang of what looks like hooligans, but who are zombie slayers...
These tones aren't overbearing, but rather important to her characters, so it works well.If you are interested in a new type of zombie, if you love the idea of a hero with violet eyes and a smexy stare...
In fact, the links are so limited and on such a surface level that it appears this facade was set up only to bring in more readers; this may work, but those hear for Alice in Wonderland are going to be disappointed.The next thing you need to know: the zombies aren't really zombies.
The precise degree to which the zombies were spirits was not entirely clear to me, and I'm just having major suspension of disbelief issues with the whole things.
Can't we just call them evil spirits?The third thing you need to know: Gena Showalter is a romance author.
Absolutely loved this take on zombies and Alice in Wonderland, It was fast paced and well written I was so drawn to every character! Even the underdeveloped ones I can't wait to read the next book.
WE’RE NOT IN WONDERLAND ANYMORE..Seriously we’re not, if you’re looking for an Alice in Wonderland retelling  this is not it!  I’m obsessed with anything and everything Alice and the only reason for reading this book was the: ‘Alice in Zombieland’, ‘White Rabbit Chronicles’ and ‘Off with their Heads’ description the cover. All these signs clearly point to a retelling but this isn’t the case, don’t be misled. If you are looking for an Alice retelling I highly recommend A.G. Howard’s Splintered se
Cole introduces Alice to a whole new world in which the ‘monsters’ her father used to talk about are actually Zombie’s and it’s their job to stop them.Zombie’s are not my thing like at all, they’re gross end of, but I really did like this book!
I’m still not a fan of Zombie’s though, they are too creepy for me but I think I’ll be reading the next book because there are some serious questions that I need answers to because usually at the start a new series there's the heroine and she's obviously different and wanted by everyone but we actually didn't find out why she was different?
I think I may be in the minority of reviewers who didn’t enjoy Alice in Zombieland.
That’s not to say I didn’t have fun with this book, there were parts which totally had me hooked and I’m positive that the characters I found to be lacklustre in places will be more rounded and developed by the second book.Despite not enjoying Alice in Zombieland as much as I’d hoped, I’m sure a lot of others will find this a spell-blinding read.
with zombies.Okay, so if you didn't know this already, then I should probably tell you: I'm a HUGE Alice in Wonderland fan and, sometimes, it borders on obsession.
For Christmas two years ago, my sister bought me the limited edition picture books of Alice in Wonderland and Alice Through the Looking Glass.
Like this:And I also want this:So when I found Alice in Zombieland and Through the Zombie Glass on offer, I didn't think twice about waving my bank card like a lunatic.
Not only is Alice bratty, but she failed to capture my attention by being selfish, dumb and an angsty teenager.
I love the author of this book very much and even if I do love her others books better, I like this one too. And for heaters...
