https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/16279856-the-eye-of-minds
My thoughts after I finished this book:What the HELL did I just read?James Dashner's writing style is nothing like anything I've ever read, or anything I ever will read.It's simple and complex at the same time.
At times, there were more than one elements that contributed to a mystery, or a horror, or a realistic-fiction, or even an action/adventure type of atmosphere.And that ending!
James Dashner has written a complex, intriguing, action-packed book that might even come to rival the Maze Runner series.
And for that, I have to raise my glass to you, Mr. Dashner.But really, why did the book end like that?
The only reason I chose to address this concern is because so many people on Goodreads have commented that this book sounds way too similar to Ready Player One. The Eye Of Minds is everything readers have learned to expect from James Dashner: a thrilling plot, fantastic characters, subtle romance, and incredible world-building.
James Dashner has a knack for creating such tense, action-packed books and I absolutely loved this one.
It doesn't matter if you think you would love the VirtNet, it's impressive how intricate the world Dashner created is.
Reading The Eye Of Minds is definitely a must!
I just got a ton of work and I really have to set aside reading the last 100 pages of this book.
I hate it when work interferes with pleasure reading.
Hahaha.Okay back to the book.5 stars.This Dashner novel is very reminiscent of the anime "sword art online".
Having read the maze runner trilogy, I just really hoped that Dashner does not mess it up to the next book.
So please let it be a good one.Please Mr. James Dashner, make the next book so awesome.
A year is an agony to read a book that would suck.
“Who knows the true definition of real?”  Real ˈ/rē(ə)l/ adjective. 1) "Actually existing as a thing or occurring in fact; not imagined supposed."2) "(of a substance or thing) not imitation or artificial; genuine."According to Google's definition of real (dictionaries are a thing of the past), anything that is not artificial or an imitation is real. Therefore, everything in a virtual reality is purely a figment of our imagination. Ah, but the question is, is the VirtNet real? If we are able to
I truly believed that Dashner could create a likable protagonist, but alas, Michael makes Thomas look like the greatest character in the history of young-adult fiction.
A cyber-terrorist, who goes by the pseudonym Kaine, is a hacker that is holding users hostage in the VirtNet. The government decides to fight fire with fire, and force Michael and his comrades to catch Kaine, or else they'll cut his Wi-Fi. I'm dead serious.
Even more preposterous, is that the very second they threaten to cut them from the VirtNet, Michael, Sarah, and Bryson agree to risk their life without a second thought!
For 75% of the book Michael and his friends are on the deadly Path.
Let me first say before I go in to dislike mode, that I am a James Dashner fan I loved the Maze Runner even though that series didn't end the way I wanted I still enjoyed it (even got my brother & boyfriend to read it, which never happens).
Like I mentioned earlier that I really enjoyed the Maze Runner series it was hard to get into at first because of the slang but once I pushed through I was then engulfed by the story & characters, I was hoping that The Eye of Minds would do the same if I just kept pushing through, sadly it didn't.
I don't know how James Dashner went from the Maze Runner series to this book.
2.5/5Kitap benim için büyük hayal kırıklığı oldu.
Konu çok güzeldi gerçekten her ne kadar Avatar çakması olsa da ( Tabut'a girip kablolara bağlanıp SanalAğ'a geçme kısmı Avatardaki evrene geçiş ile aynıydı neredeyse ) Fakat kitabın anlatımı bana inanılmaz sıkıcı geldi.
3.tekil ağızdan anlatılmış olması beni çok sıktı ama o bir yana yazarın yazım tarzını da sevmedim.
Başta çeviriden olabileceğini düşündüm ama çevirmene bakınca Selim Yeniçeri olduğunu gördüm.
Ki kendisinin çevirdiği bir sürü kitap okudum ve hiç bir problem yaşamadım hatta kitapları çok severek okudum.
O yüzden bu kitapta problemin çeviri değil yazarın anlatımı olduğunu düşünüyorum.
Yaaaani diyeceğim o ki Oyun Ustası benim için büyük hayal kırıklığı oldu.
That plot twist might've been way out of left field, but it just created more logistics problems. :S And I read this almost in tandem with Brandon Sanderson's Steelheart, which really highlighted for me the main problem with Dashner's books: his writing is so clunky. It's really awkward.
3.5 Not as bad as some people are saying, not as good as I thought it was going be, either.
No soy mucho de las vídeo juegos, de hecho, no soy nada de videojuegos pero sentí que el libro tenia cierta vibra de eso exactamente, del tipo "tienes que pasar pruebas para llegar a la prueba final bla bla bla".Me gusta la idea, y se plantea de forma rápida y entretenida, pero los personajes no me llegaron tanto, Bryson fue el mejor a mi parecer.
No creo que sea una lectura para todos, tiene muchos datos técnicos, pero entre todo eso voy a destacar ciertas ideas que me gustaron bastante.
Review originally posted at Book Probe Reviews.After I finished reading The Eye of Minds, the first in James Dashner's new YA sci-fi series The Mortality Doctrine, all I basically did was:1. eat in my sleep... .   2. run in my sleep...  ... then wake up in shock horror.3. play the guitar, pretending I'm a rock god in my own VirtNet...   ...while really feeling considerably itchy.Basically The Eye of Minds will mess with your mind.Even Sassy attempted to access the VirtNet again....   ....but she
Review originally posted at Book Probe Reviews.After I finished reading The Eye of Minds, the first in James Dashner's new YA sci-fi series The Mortality Doctrine, all I basically did was:1.
All I can really say is that I'll be recommending The Eye of Minds to every boy that walks into my bookstore in October when this book comes out, to every gamer, to every The Maze Runner or Rick Riordan fan.
Go with The Eye of Minds!The Eye of Minds is a fast-moving, mind-altering sci-fi adventure that will leave you wanting to get back into the VirtNet as soon as you can, an addiction unsettled.*Will add more in the coming week*• • •Books in the Mortality Doctrine:1.
Sigh.Okay, if I put on my "would kids like this" hat, this book is pretty great.
A good gateway book for reluctant readers, perhaps.If I put on my "is this a good book" hat, I just want to throw it across the room in frustration and agony.
While the book certainly falls in line with Tad Williams's Otherland and Conor Kostick's Saga thematically, it's written more like a Dan Brown or Brad Meltzer book that focuses almost all on moving the plot along than any sort of real characterization or worldbuilding.
There's a place for those books, sure, but I'm not sure it's what I want from my sci-fi.So yes.
Neden sağ gösterip sol vuruyorsun be adam! İkinci kitabı verin bana hemen şimdi :(
Das Ende war so genial ... ich brauch Band 2!!
When I was reading this I hated the writing style and felt we needed a better a introduction of the characters
DNF around 18%.
I read the first 10% or so of this in 2014, because it sounded like something I would love.
Not being a gamer myself I don't know why this is, but I do.
So this sounded like the perfect book for me.
I put it aside quickly then, but recently wanted to give it another chance.
After listening to an hour and a half or so of the audio, I think I will relegate this one to the DNF pile permanently.
It just seemed so...I don't know.
I gave it a second chance and I'm glad I did.
I have a problem with the way Dashner writes.First things first, the book was okay after I finished it.
It was like how every unexplained and illogical thing from Maze Runner was justified by a character vaguely saying, "It's the variables." A cop-out to a more fully developed and completely thought-out idea.This book, as with The Scorch Trials, comes across as a harebrained creative writing assignment with little to no forethought.
Dashner's worlds are like sticky tape across the carpet of a public place: they're a collection of raw, unrelated, and discarded half-thoughts.I usually finish books because I want to know what happens at the end and one of the markers of a good book for me is that I enjoy the entire experience of getting to the end.
I couldn't finish it; I got maybe 25% of the way through, but it was mind-blowing; and not in a good way.Yes, I understand how a virtual reality "game" does not need to be realistic.
And then, the teenager actually does apologize!
Just do away with the threats, and be done with it!At first I thought I would just go along with this separation from reality.
I followed the three teenagers through this gruesome virtual reality, but it all seemed so pointless.
This book was pretty meh. At first I thought it reminded me of Ready Player One minus the nerd references and the humour. But as it went on it reminded me of Ready Player One less and less. I don't know if I will continue this series or not. I'll see if I ever get in the mood for it again in the future or not.
I met James Dashner at a book event last year and at one of his panels, he challenged the audience to read The Eye of Minds.
And I hated that in one part of the book there was a game where the entire object was to kill other humans, with no reward, or fulfilled quest at the end...
Maybe I need to be a gamer to appreciate this book more.
Or, maybe it's possible that Ready Player One has ruined me for other gaming books.
(1.5 stars) I mean... it had an okay story line and the signature Dashner twist was at the end... I just didn't care much idk. It felt really long. It was very similar to the movie Ready Player One, I haven't read the book of it yet though.It's such an interesting concept to meet your friends in VirtNet and chow down on whatever feast your heart desires. You think you're chowing down on poutine and cupcakes, and it tastes like it but in the "waking world" you're actually eating pure healthy nutrients intravenously lol
Tanto que si te mata la explosión de una granada, sentirías el dolor físico que eso produciría, aunque instantes después reaparezcas en la partida.¿Se imaginan la clase de trauma psicológico que ese tipo de experiencia produciría?Y no solo eso, sino que esa avanzada tecnología tiene un fallo gigantesco, porque lo único que evita que la muerte virtual se concrete en el cuerpo físico del jugador, es un núcleo, un chip que funciona a modo de barrera, y que por muy seguro que sea, resulta un riesgo intolerable para algo que no es más que una consola de videojuegos futurista.Imagínense una Playstation a la que si le quitas un componente, podría sencillamente matarte en un parpadeo.
I read Maze Runner, but other than that I haven't had much experience with Dashner.
Overall, this book made me wish I was reading Ready Player One again.
It also created much more tension and the plot twist at the end didn't feel tacked on to create a trilogy opportunity.So, to sum up, the world creation wasn't unique and is done better in other places.
The characters didn't really seem to manifest the traits that they were supposedly exemplars of, and the ending didn't feel like a "twist" so much as an easy way to create a conflict for the second book.
Una historia adictiva, llena de acción, sin romance (lol), que te engancha desde la primera hoja...*Pronto reseña* (Para aclarar dudas, no se parece en nada a ECDL)
What a ride... Of awfulness.
I didn't expect it to be bad, as I'd already enjoyed the Maze Runner series, but because I'm not keen on video games I thought maybe I wouldn't enjoy it as much.
Whether you like video games or not you can definitely find enjoyment in The Eye of Minds.
It's almost like an adventure or fantasy book except that everything that going on isn't actually real, it's all in the world of the VirtNet. Yes, the plot was very interesting and action packed, not boring in the slightest.
It's even better than The Maze Runner and I eagerly await the sequel.(I won this book through Goodreads First Reads (and am so glad that I did))
This was definitely a different kind of book.
I didn't love it, but I also didn't hate it.
There were parts that were very interesting and parts that kind of bored me.
The writing style wasn't my favorite ever and some of the wording and descriptions and such felt weird to me.
It was kind of hard to follow.
The ending was neat, but didn't entice me enough to make me want the next book right now.
I like the originality of the plot, but don't think it's one of the best books I've read by any means.
This is the first book by James Dashner I read and I definitely enjoyed it!
I found myself constantly rooting for Michael, Bryson and Sarah the whole way through.
The VirtNet world the author created is amazing.
This book was fast-paced and drew me in right from the beginning.
I did not see the ending coming, however, there were clues.
I was so enthralled with what was happening and what would happen next, that I missed them.
This book will keep you on the edge of your seat all the way through.
I would definitely read more books by this author.
That's not necessarily bad in a novel, one liking the antagonist more, but clearly the author intended Michael and his friends to be superior.
Without those plot twist of Kaine being a tangent, then Michael being a tangent, this would be one hell of a mediocre novel.
Another thing I'd like to point out before ending this review would be the ignorance of people when it comes to the blurb/synopsis of the novel, or even the genre at all.
Although if a person didn't like the blurb, but ended up loving the novel, then that makes the author a really good writer.
RESEÑA COMPLETA EN LEE.SUEÑA.VUELA WTF! Dashner! Ese final por Dios!No se lleva las cinco estrellas porque la primera mitad tuvo sus altibajos, pero a este tipo le encanta jugar con la mente del lector (y con su cordura, agreguemos), creó un universo muy rico y una historia brillante.Hacía mucho que no me torturaban tanto.
Had a chance to read the manuscript of this amazing novel, and I honestly think it is going to be even bigger than Maze Runner. If you are a Dashner fan, this is going to blow you away. And if you aren't this will make you one.As with all Dashner books this is a great combination of action and what the heck is going on here. Great read!
Дэшнера стоит читать если вы ходите книги с кучей и кучей экшена! Мне понравилось.Пошла на ура.
