https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/7183781-abraham-lincoln
I have always loved the poetry of Carl Sandberg, and of course I have always loved and admired Abraham Lincoln, who is a poet in his own right.
So, when years ago, I found a set of books about Abraham Lincoln written by Carl Sandberg, I knew I had found a winner.
Being basically a poet, Carl Sandberg's writing is sometimes hard to understand on first reading.
Couple that with the fact that mom had made copious notes throughout her copy in order to report on it to her book club, and it made for rather slow reading.

It's limitation as a historical text comes largely from its uniqueness as a narrative one; it was written within written memory of Lincoln. At least in volume one the number of apocryphal stories about Lincoln's rigid honesty in his youth rises above the number of observations about his legacy or keen slides of hand as a politician by ten fold.
This first volume of six total is, not surprisingly, a poetical treatment of this complex man. Many details are omitted which may easily be deeply mined in later biographies. It is chiefly unique in having first person quotations from those who knew Lincoln. It certainly stands the test of time
I cannot imagine a book that captures the essence of Lincoln that could possibly be better than this one. Vividly descriptive and filled with Lincoln's witticisms and anecdotes, this biography of Lincoln's life until the Civil War certainly utilizes Sandburg's background as a poet.
Though a poet by trade, Sandburg's obsession with Lincoln became a state-of-the-art in biography with his massive six volume work.
I recommitted myself to reading the entire series and, this time, couldn't put down Volume 1.
The sectional disputes between these two vital economic sectors which had boiled below the surface since the the very first Continental Congress and had festered as both fought for political and commercial dominance at home and abroad shaped the mind, the character and the passion of a man who, in less than a decade from the volume's end, would be returning to Washington in a very different capacity.I've nothing but raves for Sandburg's Lincoln.
I thoroughly enjoyed reading about the life of Lincoln leading up to his election and presidency.
This is the first book of three in Sandburg's condensed biography of Abraham Lincoln.
Sandburg does a great job of telling the story, using letters, stories, and quotes of those who knew Lincoln best.It's interesting to think about if a person like Lincoln could get elected today.
It's really as if he did not go pursuing leadership, but he didn't run from it when it came his way.I'm looking forward to the next two books in this trilogy.
This volume covers Lincoln's birth to 1854.
Sandburg covers his childhood, the death of his mother and his fathers 2nd marriage to Sarah Bush who would be a constant in his life and a very close relationship.
According to Carl Sandburg he was to become a successful Lawyer and Politician on the state and national level.No surprises except that during this period of his life he and Mary had successful marriage based on love.
You start to understand Lincoln through his losses politically and relationships.
His deep depressions and his deep belief that he would suffer a tragic death.
Looking forward to read volume II.
One of Carl Sandburg’s life works was writing the definitive biography of Abraham Lincoln, the 16th president of the United States. With the encouragement of his publisher Harcourt Brace, Sandburg began in the 1920s to write about Lincoln’s early years. The resulting two-volume Abraham Lincoln: The Prairie Years was published by Harcourt Brace in 1926. Sandburg followed this with a four-volume treatment of Lincoln’s service during the Civil War – Abraham Lincoln: The War Years, which was published in 1939. Eventually, Sandburg condensed his six-volume masterpiece into a single volume on Lincoln’s life – 762 pages published in 1954.
Despite being full of unverified anecdotes while jumping from topic to topic, this is still a fascinating look at the young Lincoln and his times. The reader gets a good glimpse at the hard life on the frontier. Sandburg tells you what Lincoln is thinking, which is dangerous but something tells me he is on target as much as not. The constant battle against depression comes across as does Lincoln's basic goodness and honesty.
"As Labor is the common burthen of our race, so the effort of some to shift their share of the burthen on to the shoulders of others, is the great, durable, curse of the race." -- Abraham LincolnA very enjoyable book. Shows the difficulties and struggles of Lincoln both public and private and his endurance... just to be elected. While showing the greatness he was capable of, Sandburg also shows Lincoln as very human with his own eccentricities and weaknesses.
Fine
Good information.
A must read for Lincoln and Civil War fans!
A little too poetic in the earliest years when there's not much documentation of his life. Better once it gets into the better known years.
