https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/37781.Things_Fall_Apart
Stress that it was only your opinion that nothing interesting happens, so that everyone realizes that you just can't identify with any of the events described, and this is your fault only.
3. Also explain how the main character is a generic bully, with no unique characteristics that make him interesting to the reader.
Achebe is being forced to write in English, a foreign tongue, because he is a post-colonial writer and the fact that the book is written in English stresses his role as a repressed minority, something that you are incapable of understanding, you racist imperialist!
It throbbed in the air, in the sunshine, and even in the trees, and filled the village with excitement.” - Chinua Achebe, Things Fall ApartThis is a book of many contrasts; colonialism and traditional culture, animism and Christianity, the masculine and the feminine, and the ignorant and the aware (although who is who depends on who’s speaking).Okonkwo is one of the most intriguing characters in African fiction.
Achebe also shows how tightknit precolonial African culture was and how, despite not having the so-called civilized institutions, things went pretty smoothly because of the community spirit and also the societal rules.
Either the author desires to see native ways preserved and consequently views any imperial attempts as immoral and threatening, or he's a Kipling-style "white man's burden" devotee who believes non-European cultures ought to be improved by supervision from their European "superiors." Yet Things Fall Apart is a novel that complicates both of those simplistic views.
The events that occur in Things Fall Apart signify the destruction of an entire way of life, an obliteration of the ties that bind a people together.
We had touched on the hypocrisy of religious missions.I had dwelt on the title and its beautiful context, the poem by Yeats, more relevant now than ever:"Turning and turning in the widening gyre The falcon cannot hear the falconer; Things fall apart; the centre cannot hold; Mere anarchy is loosed upon the world, The blood-dimmed tide is loosed, and everywhere The ceremony of innocence is drowned; The best lack all conviction, while the worst Are full of passionate intensity."We had compared Okonkwo to the skilled falcon, and the ruthless Europeans to falconers killing and destroying without reason.
My son claimed it was one of the best endings he had ever read - for the sudden change of perspective that disrupted the story and made it stand out in sharp contrast.Then we continued talking.
Achebe gives the black man a voice; he gives him culture and civilisation.
Achebe gives us the reality.This quote says it all: “If you don't like my story, write your own”.And that’s exactly what he did himself.
The point of this novel is to show how uncompromising the white man is.
The Nigerian culture, the way of life for the tribe folk in this novel, is forced to change because if it doesn’t it will be destroyed in its entirety.
All culture has its flaws, that’s true for any society, but the white one, for all its self-aggrandisement, was nothing but imposing.
All lands have their own histories, but sadly, we only get to hear a scant few in their own words.We know that Africa had empires as complex and powerful as those of Europe--beyond the well-known examples of Egypt and Carthage, the Romans give us secondary evidence of the great Central African empires from which they got their salt and gold, alongside many subsequent references--but in the end, these amount to little more than myths and legends.Carthage itself was so thoroughly destroyed that Rome basically erased their true history, replacing it with Roman propaganda and rumor-mongering, until in The Aeneid, Carthage becomes nothing more than Rome’s jealous, jilted lover--instead of what she truly was: the template of naval dominance and mercantile power that Rome copied and built her empire upon.The African continent is just as full of ruins and archaeological treasures as Europe or Asia, but due to rampant social and economic instability caused by multinationals squabbling over resources and profits in the power vacuum left in the wake of post-colonialism, it’s not currently safe or supportable to research these sites and rediscover the cultures they represent.
أول ما فتنني في رواية غينوا أتشيبي هو عنوانها الملهم (الأشياء تتداعى) والذي استقاه من قصيدة لييتس، يا له من وصف حقيقي لسقوط وانتهاء عالم ما، عشنا فيه وظننا أنه دائم لا يزول، ولكن ها هو يتداعى وينتهي مخلفاً أنقاضاً هنا وهناك في ثقافتنا.
في هذه الرواية نعيش مع أوكونكوو الرجل القوي الذي بنى نفسه من الصفر وصار أقوى رجل في قريته، نعيش في عالم القرية الأفريقية ما قبل الاستعمار، دينها وعاداتها وخرافاتها، ثم تبدأ التحولات في الظهور، وهو ما يقلق أوكونكوو فيقف في وجهها، ويقاتل للحفاظ على عالمه كما عرفه، ولكن تتغير العادات، ويتغير الدين بازدياد المعتنقين للمسيحية، وعندما يقتل أوكونكوو مبعوثاً من الحكومة الاستعمارية تكون مغامرته قد انتهت.
He lives his life within the cultural confines of his limited world, following the laws that govern his society, accepting the religious faith of his surroundings, acting on both, even when those actions would seem, to us in the modern west, an abomination.
The details of Okonkwo’s experiences accumulate to give us a picture of his times, his culture, so we have a sense of what is at stake when change arrives.
Have at it.In 2013, Salon republished a wonderful 2010 essay, Chinua Achebe: The man who rediscovered Africa, on news of his passing.
Y'know when you read a novel that is just so stark and bare and depraved that you know it's going to stay with you for a very long time? Yep, it's happened guys. It's happened. This novel ruined me. Ugh it's so great and so horrible. It's what Yeats would describe as a "terrible beauty". Read it, let it wreck you, and bathe in its importance.
Love it or hate it, Achebe's tale of a flawed tribal patriarch is a powerful and important contribution to twentieth century literature.Think back to 1959.
Liberation from colonial masters had not yet swept the African continent when this book appeared, but the pressures were building.
Africans would suffer under the proxy wars waged there to keep the Cold War cold.Achebe tells the tale of Okonkwo, a young man of some fame throughout the nine villages and beyond, for his wrestling prowess.
He is a product of his land, his culture, his religion, and his people.
In my humble opinion, that was the task Achebe set for himself in writing this book.
Achebe illustrates and explains rather than judges and provides a moving and very human story of change and disintegration.
Part of Achebe's genius is that he tells the tale like all good writers; he explains when he has too and creates nuanced characters.
Okonwko is also nuanced; unable to show the feelings he clearly has (especially to his daughter) and so eager to be strong and to lead that he is unable to be compassionate like his peers.
Achebe does not judge; he charts the decline of a culture.
Most of the African novels I've read give the outside view, the colonial or Christian view, which unfairly judges a people and a culture they couldn't possibly understand.The story is set in the Nigerian village of Umuofia in the late 1800's.
So when the outsiders arrived, mostly white, mostly European, and in the beginning mostly Christian, the shock was unimaginable and, in many ways, catastrophic.The story revolves around the character Okonkwo, who dominates the narrative to the extent the book could have been titled Okonkwo.
Dominate is the right word because that's Okonkwo's way.
I really enjoyed this book!
It was the first book we read in my contemporary world literature class and it stirred some really good discussion.
I'm all about any conversation in which I can discuss dismantling the patriarchy, and this book definitely dealt a lot with sexism, which is a topic I find infuriating yet interesting.
I thought this was a great book to discuss and it was really interesting as far as learning the culture and religion of Nigerian villages!
I can't wait to read and discuss more books in this class!

Achebe's classic is a quick and interesting read albeit with a depressingly realistic end. My curiosity will most likely lead me to more of his work and I enjoyed the narrative style. The ambiguities of cultural clash with an obvious misbalance of power and the two different kinda of brutality in the conflict were thought-provoking and painful to read because they were surely even worse in real life.
Here, in the middle of an African village on the verge of white people's arrival, the rhythm of living is dictated by weather, crops and all sacred nature's inventions.
Divine order (or nature as a whole) is an unfair judge; it speaks to everyone differently and its language is too similar to all kinds of prejudices and accumulated experiences.
Wrongdoings are therefore punished only for restoration of the divine order; they have no integral fault or debt to society in themselves.
Nowadays, there's only camping left for a little bit of nature's touch.

A topic like this is very heavy, controversial, and important – because of this, a tale in this genre is going to have a big impact and will easily make its way to must read status.When I read it in high school, I think I enjoyed it more than now because the style of writing and subject matter were different than the typical high school reading.
A couple of times I got done with a chapter feeling like I must have put a huge dent in it for the day, but when I went to update my status, I had only read 10 pages!Interesting side note: I remember the project I had to do for this book in high school was to write my own Clif Notes for the book.
In an interview after the text, Achebe said his "sympathies were not entirely with Okonkwu." Achebe presents the ills that the colonists brought to the traditional village society--the division between families, the imposition of foreign rule, the corruption and brutality endemic in the system which even destroys an entire village in reprisal for the death of one white missionary.
Although, given all the different iterations I've seen and read of the "Dances With Wolves" motif, I did appreciate Achebe's willingness to show the unattractive side of a traditional culture.At the same time Oknokwu's friend Obierika says "the white man...
I didn't know what to expect...."may be Africa's best-loved novel...For so many readers around the world, it is Chinua Achebe who opened up the magic casements of African fiction" ----by Kwame Anthony Appiah.
After I read this book -- joining thousands and thousands of others around the world feeling disturbed & conflicted when I read lines like this: "I will not have a son who cannot hold up his head in the gathering of the clan.
In "Things Fall Apart", western culture is portrayed as arrogant and ethnocentric.
Readers too!Never too late to read "Things Fall Apart"
Staunch patriarchs rarely accept changes for they have been rooted in their ancestral cultural mores and dread its disintegration with time.
Hence, he feared his own collapse and saw accomplishment and power as a sign of acceptance and dignity amongst the members of the clan.
It is then, I reflect on Okonkwo and his failure to accept the presence of British missionaries in his village and his belief in the calamitous penalties by the spread of Christianity.Achebe brings a complex mix of digression and misfortune that revolves around one man, his fate and the collapse within his tribal ethnicity.
472. Things Fall Apart, Chinua AchebeThings Fall Apart is a novel written by Nigerian author Chinua Achebe. Published in 1958, its story chronicles the pre-colonial life in Nigeria and the arrival of the Europeans during the late nineteenth century. It is seen as the archetypal modern African novel in English, one of the first to receive global critical acclaim. It is a staple book in schools throughout Africa and is widely read and studied in English-speaking countries around the world. It was
Things Fall Apart, Chinua AchebeThings Fall Apart is a novel written by Nigerian author Chinua Achebe.
It is seen as the archetypal modern African novel in English, one of the first to receive global critical acclaim.
It is a staple book in schools throughout Africa and is widely read and studied in English-speaking countries around the world.
It was first published by William Heinemann Ltd in the UK; in 1962, it was also the first work published in Heinemann's African Writers Series.
The title of the novel was borrowed from W.
“There is no story that is not true.” ― Chinua Achebe, Things Fall ApartAchebe's Magnum Opus is one of those 'essential novels' where one can see its greatness while at the same moment understand that part of its strength lies not in anything the novel itself ever does, but in the place the novel holds in time and place.
If 'Things Fall Apart' were written 40 years earlier it would have probably been ignored both in Africa and the West.
Long live Africa!Thanks to Ginnie for this link from The Economist about A Golden Jubilee of Things Fall Apart.><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><23 November 2008: I'm almost finished and I so want to start writing my review on this incredible book but at the same time I know I need to let it 'gel'.
I want to write about Things Fall Apart because it awakens and stirs up so many thoughts and feelings inside; it reminds me of every other book I've ever read about Africa and yet it is like none of them.Ah well .
هیچی بهتر از این نیست که سراغ یه نویسنده ای بری که هرگز اسمشو نشنیده ای و اولین کتابشو که بخونی ببینی یه شاهکاره!
A few years ago I bought about ten long metal markers on which were engraved the 50 books one 'ought to have read'.
Firstly, I realized I had never read it before, secondly I was blown away by it and thus thirdly I wholeheartedly realize why it is engraved on that bookmark.The story is simply told.
The colonial powers and the 'attached missionaries' have taken up the ruling status and, cut adrift from everything he was and stood for, Okonkwo follows his world's example and 'falls apart'.That is the story but Achebe takes this and creates something unimaginably beautiful.
رواية ليست بالعادية، أبدًا، وعلى الإطلاق.هي ملحمة إنسانية بحق، بكل ما فيها من صراعات وحروب وإنهيارات
This is my new favorite book because within five minutes, a person's reaction will tell me how defensive they are about being considered racist, whether or not they've been accused that minute.This is an excellent way to identify racists, for fun and profit.Seriously, covering it in class has been like, "Fielding Racists 101" and "How to Sound Over-Defensive When Talking About How African People Are Actually More Violent, No Totally" class.One guy actually said there was literally no parallel or point of reference for Okonkwe's behavior in America and that it was literally impossible to understand how he could be so brutal.Which is funny, just really hilarious.
I gotta admit I did not enjoy the book at first, but a few chapters in it got me.
I'm still on the fence with Achebe, since the few books I have read by him have left me with bittersweet memories of Objective innocence towards atrocities committed in the name of colonialism.
I feel narrative objectivity was a crucial aspect of Achebe's storytelling, but I can't say I enjoy how he writes.
I loved his thorough yet simplistic introduction to Ibo culture and language, as well as the juxtaposition of christian faith over native beliefs.
Powerful ending and colorful characters; overall, a good literary experience.
What surprised me about this novel was that even though a lot of the literary criticism suggests this is a book predominantly about the friction between native beliefs and western colonisation, that aspect really only comes to the forefront in the last handful of pages.The first two parts of the book set up the rhythms of village life, the gods, birth, death, marriage, yam farming (there is ALOT of yams in this) as well as introducing the redoubtable Okonkwo and his family.
This was a very auditory kind of book.By the time I shut the book on the final page I realised how much Achebe had actually packed into a slim novel and how apt the title was.
