https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/311096.The_Reluctant_Widow
And Carlyon, administering the will of Eustace and smiling and brushing off all of Elinor's concerns and complaints.This is a lightweight mystery that seemed a little scattershot to me, with an improbable setup and a barely-there romance...
And even though Carlyon was a little (or a lot) too high-handed and Elinor spent too much time and breath complaining to and about him - with complete justice, I might add - I still liked the main characters, and the secondary ones were delightful.
4.5★My original review still stands https://www.goodreads.com/review/show...I'll only add that GH created one of her best villains here (view spoiler)[ or did she? (hide spoiler)]And that the Arrow edition I read (with the insipid looking redhead dressed in pink - Elinor was a brown haired 26, worked as a governess, then was in mourning - no way would she be wearing pink) was full of typos - especially in the second half. Come on Arrow - stop being so cheap and hire a proofreader!
Be still, my crappy, apartment-bound heart....- An entirely lovable, undisciplined canine named "Bouncer", who was every bit the model of scrappy dog-hood, and provided much comic relief throughout the novel with his antics.- A dry, droll hero, whose mode of wooing was perfectly offset by the still-lady-like sarcasm of the heroine.
Nicky is the teenage human equivalent to Bouncer, and every bit as scrappy and undisciplined as his canine counterpart.
The pairing: Older Supposedly Sensible Heroine/Masterful All-Knowing Calm As You Please HeroSupporting Cast: High Spirited Younger Brother, The Deceptively Weak Dandy that one "cannot quite like", Romantic Older Friend of Heroine, Motivationlessly Evil Relative, Exposition Providing BrotherThe Plot: Supposedly Sensible Heroine marries Motivationlessly Evil Relative on his death bed (which he's brought to after an accidental wound in a fight with High Spirited Young Relative) because All Knowing Hero does not want to be suspected of wanting to inherit his estate.
A missing document brought up by Exposition Providing Brother was thought to be in his hands when he died!
4.5*This fast paced yarn full of wonderfully engaging characters only just fell short of 5 stars, because the original premise was so unlikely. But once you get over that the story moves along at a cracking pace, with GH's trademark witty dialogue. & another dog as an entertaining minor character. Why are her dogs dull in her mysteries but full of life in her historicals? & I love young Nicky so much!As usual, highly recommended!
This was probably a 3-star read and not comparable those of Georgette Heyer's romances that are now among my favorites such as Sylvester, Cotillion, or Devil's Cub and others. However, the marriage proposal/declaration of love scene (that I've marked in my kindle) is one of the sweetest I've ever read in recent memory.Note to self: Francis Cheviot is introduced in ch 13. Ha

Another of my least favourite Heyer books, with a bland romance being a side issue of the main story.My laugh out loud moments were to do with Bouncer, the dog, and the various conversations that were had with him.Beautifully written, as always, and with interesting characters, except for our romantic couple.And, for all those reviewers who noted the overuse of the word “odious”, I counted them for you. It didn’t overly bother me, but for those who wish to know it was used 27 times. Three times in two sentences!
Secondly, it is a funny story where characters cope with extraordinary circumstances and events.
Thirdly, we find here brilliant example of brotherhood (relationships between three different brothers).
And fourthly, it is Heyer's romance.I had fun reading how characters coped with mystery and I felt this sweet pleasure when the love story came to the end (through almost the whole book it only hung in the air, as I wrote it wasn't a main thread).
But most of all, in my opinion in this novel the most original and praiseworthy was (mentioned above) description of relationships between adult brothers.
Elinor Rochdale accidentally arrives at the wrong house, and is met by Carlyon, who was expecting a woman to marry his evil cousin.
His evil cousin is dying of a stab-wound and for various inheritance reasons Carlyon has to marry him off immediately so it's Elinor or never.Of course, no Heyer heroine could be anything other than a gently-bred, honourable woman.
Implacable like a glacier, he simply assumes that she'll do it and organises accordingly.Now this raises the problem of making Elinor seem a bit weak, and Carlyon a bit of a bully.
Carylon hardly interacts with Elinor at all, and his marriage proposal at the end of the novel (no spoilers needed; this is a Heyer Regency Romance after all) comes out of nowhere.
He bursts onto a tete-a-tete between Carlyon and Elinor in the first chapter with a "blinding" smile of relief and "'I'm excessively sorry, but I have killed Eustace Cheviot!" Upon being asked for explanation for how he came to kill his cousin, he commences on a FOUR PAGE babbling session concerning dancing bears, eating ham with friends, his stage-coach journey, and finally how annoying he finds another brother's "sermons" about good behavior.
The story is delightfully absurd, and a lot of the humor of the book arises from the commonsense ordinariness of the characters when faced with such melodramatic events.A number of Georgette Heyer’s books feature what I would call an “angry” heroine, and usually I find those heroines rather tiresome.
I do enjoy the mystery aspect of it, and the twist at the end; and of course the minor characters are vividly drawn, as in most Heyer novels.
But for me that’s less important than the fun of the plot and characters.This is one of Georgette Heyer’s shorter Regency romances, and not overburdened with Regency slang—a good starting point for someone wishing to try this author for the first time.
The heroine also lacks the gumption of an older Heyer heroine (like Sophy or Frederica) but misses the sweet innocence of a younger one (such as Arabella).
He does behave a little high handed, but I like his uncertainly with the heroine.
Nicky is a fairly standard younger Heyer brother.
Overall, it was a pleasant re-read and I bumped it up one star for the neat little mystery.
Not my favorite Heyer book but still wonderful because it was written by her.
Three stars because it is Heyer, but really!
This was my second time through this story and I have to say this author's work stands the test of time and re-reading.
I saw the subtle hints of romance where I didn't see the evidence of it before and I was most struck by one of the more dubious characters in the story, Frances Cheviot.The story is most definitely old school Regency Romance at its best with a tinge of the Gothic to it.
They are quite the pair and I enjoyed their sparring.The narrator did a fantastic job capturing the tone, pacing, and characters.In summation, I was delighted by this re-read in the form of an audio version.
What a charming addition to my Georgette Heyer collection!
The Reluctant Widow was a bit of a departure from the silly/sweet Regency-type romance Heyer is known for.
I loved the banter between Lord Carlyon and Elinor (who by the way becomes the "reluctant widow" by accidentally getting into the wrong carriage on her way to apply for a position as governess).
I did get a bit frustrated at the end as the pace slowed considerably and it took too long for the unveiling of the "villain" with unnecessary chatter, but it all wrapped up nicely for a satisfying happy and hopeful future for Elinor.
Odious, odious, odious!I had such high expectations for this book, I am so disappointed.
I really didn't like anything about it.
I read some really glowing reviews and was so excited to find a book that seemed like it was something I would love.
I didn't care for the writing, the mystery, the characters, or the so-called love interest or romance portion of the story.
In fact I thought the whole story was ridiculous.
And the repetition of the word odious was very annoying.
I so wished this had been something like Kate Ross's Julian Kestrel Mysteries which I loved.
Very enjoyable. Cornelius Garrett has excellent accents and voices for the different characters.As a fan of Terry Pratchett, I found it amusing that the accent used for the local doctor, he who tended the dying Eustace Cheviot and our boy Nicky, sounded almost exactly like the Feegles, as performed by Stephen Briggs in the Tiffany Aching books (begin with The Wee Free Men, and sequels.
Reread 5/2018 3.5+ starsGeorgette Heyer rating scale: 5 - BEST, funniest, favorite; 4-funny but one flaw; 3 funny or good but didn't really like the characters or all the situations; 2 or less - what was she thinking?Miss Elinor Rochdale arrives in Sussex expecting to become governess to the spoiled little boy of the formidable seeming Mrs. Massingham.
Elinor has a sarcastic sense of humor.
I happened to like their witty banter and can see myself responding to Carlyon the same way Elinor does.
If you read it as witty and Elinor's comments as sarcastic, the story makes more sense.
Re-read 31st Oct. Originally read in 2011. "I must not listen to you!" Elinorsaid, much shaken. "Oh, it is themost ridiculous thing! You only metme a week ago, and then you con-strained me to marry your horridcousin!""It is a fortunate thing that I didnot know you better, for if I had Ishould certainly never have done so."She uttered a laugh that broke inthe middle; "Odious, odious man!""I depend on you to teach me tobe less odious. 1 shall be very happyto learn of you." Another sleep deprived d
Not strong and overbearing but still present, with the interactions between Elinor (known as Mrs Cheviot for most of the novel) and Ned/Edward (known by his title Carlyon for most of the book) are very amusing!
And I love how they met in the most extraordinary circumstances which led to Elinor getting married to Carlyon's odious cousin who left her widowed by dawn.
What was humourous throughout the novel were the references between Elinor and Carlyon of Mrs Macclesfield!
I also liked that Elinor made light of the situation even with so many horrific things (in a mild Heyer way of course) happening in the house!
3.85* for this Georgette Heyer endeavour because I didn't get what I was expecting out of the book.Firstly, lets begin with the cover.
It was different from all the earlier Georgette Heyer books I read but with a different storyline, but there were also some common elements like an independent heroine and a sauvé hero and differences of opinion amongst them.
Nonetheless, as I always state, my view that any Georgette Heyer book is worth a read at least once, I maintain the same this time as well.
Having read somewhere that Heyer's regency romances are really more like wild adventure stories wrapped in tacky bodice-buster covers, I found a pile at a secondhand sale and stashed them away.
She 'dislikes' Lord Carlyon from the get-go, and not without reason, but her antagonism never gets in the way of the plot, and it is a wholly unbelievable dislike anyway - we know from the first that they are meant for each other, and instead of having to endure chapters of burning longing and desire/hatred/desire, the romance portion of the story is neatly swept to the side in deference to the main event: Napoleonic spies!
You'd think I'd remember how much glee Georgette Heyer's books can bring me, but I really hadn't expected to enjoy this one so much.
I do love all the characters, though: ridiculous Nicky and his dog, Ned and his way of being able to talk anyone into anything and make it seem natural besides, even the more incidental characters.
Elinor is less colourful than either of those male leads, but I enjoyed her banter even if I wish it'd extended to actually saying no to Ned a bit more.Speaking of dogs, my giggles rather annoyed the one next door while I was reading this.
The characterizations in this book are subtle and depend a lot on the reader understanding Regency manners and expectations.
Elinor's character, in particular, includes a lot of subversive things that make little sense if you only account for her overt statements and actions.
Her twitting of Ned and playing on the gothic tropes common in the day are clear indicators of a lively sense of humor and a willingness to step outside of convention, even if her situation doesn't leave a lot of room for doing so.
Without those subtle indicators of Elinor's willingness to follow Ned's lead, he can come off looking more the bully than he really is.
Much better on second read. Does require a bit suspension of disbelief to deal with a few plot points.
Elinor Rochdale is just trying to be a governess when she is mistakenly taken to meet Lord Carlyon who is awaiting a woman who answered his advertisement to marry Mr. Eustace Cheviot, a repulsive drunk.
Elinor's commentary read 100% to me of the sassiest sass, and Ned's brittle rebuttals seemed to be in kind: I don't think I could have liked this half as well if they hadn't nettled one another so brilliantly and thoroughly.
4. While part of me shirks from reading any of Heyer's marrieds books--too many unhappy reviews--I would LOVE to see awkward courting stories while Elinor is in half-mourning and Ned's stuffy and eager.
Elinor Rochdale, a young woman of good birth but straitened circumstances, sets out to accept a position as a governess.
Carlyon believes Elinor to be the young woman he hired to marry his dying cousin, Eustace Cheviot, in order to avoid inheriting Cheviot's estate himself.
Somehow, Elinor is talked into marrying Eustace on his deathbed and thus becomes a widow almost as soon as the ring is on her finger.
And from there onwards, the plot descends rather rapidly into a whirl of housebreakers, secret passages, uninvited guests, murder, missing government papers, and a dog named Bouncer.As a traditional Regency romp, this is rather good.
Heyer wrote a handful of suspense/romance novels, of which this is one, so the plot is about espionage and stuff, with the romance as a secondary (even incidental) element.
What I didn't like was that the suspense part of the plot wasn't very strong.
I was also disappointed by the characters, usually my favorite part of a Heyer novel.
Characters who were meant to be funny and charming were just annoying, particularly Edward Carlyon's younger brother--he's young and wild and full of visions of being a hero, all of which put heroine Elinor Rochdale in danger, all of which are permitted because no one wants to crush his manly spirit and imply that he's a useless kid.
My five-star rating is for the audiobook, specifically.
You see, I have read all of Georgette Heyer's Georgian/Regency era stories, and have a list color-coded according to my enjoyment of them.
Probably three and a half, but I didn't use that many colors.
It transforms the decently enjoyable story into a hilarious farce that I listened to almost non-stop for the whole nine and a half hours while I was ill this week.
To read any Heyer book specifically for that purpose, though, is to miss out on a lot.
Listen to this one, if you thought you didn't love reading it.
"Why in the name of heaven did no one put the chairs under the holland covers?" exclaimed Elinor, her housewifely instincts quite revolted.She didn't even try.This dumb girl not only takes the wrong coach to meet her new boss but she lets another man marry her off to a dying man.I mean, for a little bit Elinor protested and Mr. Carlyon didn't push her much but then she goes and marries the dying man!
Women didn't have much say in shit back then but dear fffffffff at the very least, TRY.Heck, why do you think so many women got their happy endings in Regency/Victorian novels?
More mystery than romance, this is one of Heyer's lesser works, IMHO.
Charming characters, a nice mystery, and more of a hint of the politics of the day that she usually puts into her regency romances.
I made a discovery this time around--this book is best read in one go--to better enjoy the farcical nature of the action: secret stairs, stolen documents, spies popping out of hidden panels, worried heroine, rambunctious teenage boy, cool, calm, collected hero.
I read it small increments over several weeks and the heroine (dear Elinor) and young Nicky began to get on my one nerve.ETA: April 29, 2018 Ha!
Elinor was never so 'come-hither' in her relationship with Carlyon.
