https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/17704903-empty-mansions
In this enthralling book, Bill Dedman provides us with the answers he discovered when on his quest to learn about the reclusive Huguette Clark.
Newell's personal stories about his conversations with Huguette help a flesh-and-blood person to emerge from the mystery, while Dedman's training as an investigative journalist stands him in good stead, as he slowly unravels the history of W.A. Clark, Huguette Clark, and the battle over the fortune she left behind when she died on the morning of May 24, 2011, at the age of 104.
Her reclusiveness increased even more after her mother's death in 1963.As Dedman and Newell delve into Huguette's more recent history, they consider some disturbing questions.
The book got off to a slow start for me, as the author went through the family background explaining how the Clark's accumulated their vast fortune.
But then the book began to read like an episode of “American Castles’ and I got caught up the descriptions of opulence, and the blueprints of the main properties owned by W.A. Clark.
All of this is quite interesting, but then the second half of the book begins to focus exclusively on Huguette Clark, W.A.’s daughter, who eventually inherited the family fortune.
The rich are different, but the super rich are very much in a class of their own and W.A. Clark belonged to the very super rich establishment who always carried two grades of cigars; fine ones for himself and lesser ones to give away.
By 1895 he owned the most expensive 121-room mansion in New York on Fifth Avenue, and once completed it was more expensive than Rockefeller and Carnegie’s homes combined.
Filled with fine furniture, 17 servants, twenty-six bedrooms, thirty-one bathrooms, the six-story mansion was well known for the Salon room.
Empty Mansions will keep the reader enthralled and well entertained with the lives of the super wealthy.
Mansion Porn, Rich People Porn, this book gives you plenty of time to consider how you'd behave so much more appropriately if gifted with $15 million dollars, if only some rich old woman would give you the chance to prove it.
Do we, the readers, have any right to judge how a rich person spends their money?
And, in fact, the story continues in real time.
There are more stories to be discovered and explored -- for instance, an heir to $6 million dollars of Hughette's fortune, found dead of exposure under a highway viaduct, with a $500,000 uncashed check in his pocket.
One small detail that I loved was that in the home Huguette bought in New Canaan (and never slept in once) she built an addition (a painting studio above her bedroom), with the balusters of the staircase leading up to it carved to look like paintbrushes.
She had love of every kind in her life, gave away millions at a whim, and preserved her apartments and homes for ghosts, yet still died with her capital intact making numerous savvy business decisions and art investments completely on her own.
This is the story of Huguette Clark, youngest daughter of W.A. Clarke who made his fortune in copper and other entrepreneurial ventures.
She also chose to live her life, alone and in private, hidden from the public eye and interacting only occasionally with a very small inner circle.
I can identify to a point with Huguette’s desire to maintain a private life, then again circumstance fueled my need to get out there, interact and earn a living.
Empty Mansions: The Mysterious Life of Huguette Clark and the Spending of a Great American Fortune provides a glimpse into the life of one of America’s most enigmatic, multi millionaires and all her properties and prized possessions.
While the mansions in this book weren't abandoned entirely (there were caretakers on-site), the eccentric owner - Huguette Clark - hadn't lived in them or seen them in decades.
The rest of the book focused on Huguette and the ways she spent her inheritance.
It also contained snippets of phone conversations between Huguette and her cousin, Paul Clark Newell, Jr., one of the co-authors of this book.
Overall, I enjoyed EMPTY MANSIONS, though given how insanely private Huguette Clark was during her life, I think she would cringe knowing this book is out there.
Empty Mansions: The Mysterious Life of Huguette Clark and the Spending of a Great American Fortune by Bill Dedman was a fascinating read.
This is an extensively well researched and well written account of a forgotten American Heiress and her father W.A Clark.Having recently watched the series on TV "The Men who Build America" ( Vanderbilt, Rockefeller, Carnegie, and Morgan) I was delighted when I received this book on W.A Clark and his family who were major players in copper mining and other industries during the 1880s to 1930s.
Huguette Clark is the lonely reclusive figure at the heart of this story who lived as a reclusive figure in a hospital room in New York for 30 years until her death in 2011.I loved everything about this book, the historical account of W.
When I learned that Huguette Clark, the focus of  Empty Mansions: The Mysterious Life of Huguette Clark and the Spending of a Great American Fortune  owned on vacant estate in Connecticut, I knew I had to read this investigative work.
That is how I felt when I finished  Empty Mansions: The Mysterious Life of Huguette Clark and the Spending of a Great American Fortune.
Huguette Clark owned 2 empty mansions, one in Connecticut (my home state) and one in Santa Barbara in which she never lived.
I was rather surprised at how much I enjoyed the book and I developed a deep affection for the woman at its center, to an extent that it is hard to separate the critique of the book from the woman.Of the former I will say it was an engaging read, the story moved along at a good pace and the genesis of W.A. Clark’s fortune and that of the Gilded Age was clearly depicted.
It is not surprising that she reveled in the details, achieving perfection in a way that eluded her in an imperfect world.My heart broke throughout the reading and even weeks later I am still haunted by her story.
Empty Mansions takes you from the wide Montana prairies to the smaller world of the privileged elite; from a beautiful mansion topped with a golden tower on Millionaire's Row in New York City to a hospital room next to a janitor's closet in this strange but well-told and thoroughly-researched story.The book takes the reader through the life of W.A. Clark, former senator from Montana and self-made multimillionaire known as the "copper king," and his family -- his wife Anna La Chapelle, daughters Huguette and older sister Andrée.
These questions eventually led Dedman to the legal owner of the house, a 104-year-old heiress named Huguette Clark who, despite being worth millions, secluded herself in a hospital room and was so reclusive that she hadn't been photographed in decades.
Dedman's book traces the history of Huguette and her family, who were once counted among the Rockefellers and Astors, and investigated how such a powerful and wealthy dynasty could have ended with one woman in a tiny hospital room.
Empty Mansions  goes into the life of Huguette Clark and her family.
As it seems to be with most wealthy people, once she passed away, some long lost family members showed up and challenged her will.I'll leave off the biography there, but did want to mention that at the end of this audiobook recorded phone conversations between Huguette and one of her relatives are played.
(Some snippets of the conversations were played earlier in the book.) It was eerie to hear her voice after learning so much about her.
Recommended to anyone interested in learning more about this fascinating, reclusive woman and her family.
Although she’s in good health, she lives the final two decades of her life secluded in a New York City hospital room, communicating to a few friends by phone.
(The other is called The Phantom of Fifth Avenue: The Mysterious Life and Scandalous Death of Heiress Huguette Clark.)Bill Dedman’s book has the feel of an extended Vanity Fair article about some eccentric person you’ve never heard of whose family’s combined wealth at one time far exceeded that of more famous names like Vanderbilt and Rockefeller.
For decades.There’s lots of information about the Clark family’s buying and selling of European art – especially French paintings – as well a clutch of priceless Stradivarius string instruments.
Its twenty-two rooms included nine bedrooms, nine baths, eleven fireplaces, a wine cellar, elevator..."And then there's the house at Santa Barbara:"The lush estate was called Bellosguardo, meaning “beautiful lookout.” According to the Internet chatter, Huguette had not been seen there in at least fifty years, but the 21,666-square-foot mansion was immaculately kept, with 1930s sedans still in the garage, and the table set just in case the owner should visit."And the New York apartments:" Huguette Clark’s apartments took up the entire eighth floor of the building and half the twelfth, or top floor, for a grand total of forty-two rooms and fifteen thousand square feet on Fifth Avenue, the most fashionable street in the most expensive city in America."I won't go on with the details, this is one where you can either read the book and/or wander over to the book's website with lots of eye-candy, mind-boggling photos of the homes and Hugette's possessions.
(In fact I tried to request it before they had ordered it, I was so anxious to read this!)This is the story of Hugette Clark, the youngest daughter of William A.
Starting with William's parents, the Clark family spanned the entire history of this country in three generations.Hugette, though she did marry --for a year--re-assumed the name Clark for the remainder of her life (1906-2011) and was known variably as Madame, Hugo, Mrs Clark and other titles during her life.
It amazed me how much money this family had.
He lead a very interesting life.
It is described that she had her mental faculties until she died at an amazing 105 years old.
I do think there are some people who abused her and her money (her nurse, the hospital she lived in for her last 20 years to name a couple) but I feel strongly that she has every right to give her money to whomever she chooses, even if the family is not part of that.
Some of these family members are decendants of her half siblings and those siblings inherited the same amount as she did.
I am going to have to google and find out where the money ended up.
There is a small bedroom off a hall leading from the third-floor ballroom in the Copper King Mansion in Butte, Montana.
When you’re surrounded by all those unblinking doll eyes it raises the hairs on the back of your neck.Like a lot of other Montanans, I was intrigued by the story of Huguette Clark once MSNBC reporter Bill Dedman started uncovering the story of the then-suspected “missing” heir to the $300 million Clark fortune a few years ago.
(hide spoiler)]A few years ago, there was an effort in Montana to pressure the Corcoran Gallery to allow a traveling exhibition across the state of just a few pieces of the art in the collection our natural resources bought the Clark family.
Empty Mansions is a really great title for this book, which is filled with insight and heart.
I felt as though the author became a fan of and a friend to Huguette as he studied her life.
I found myself hoping for her life to change.
Mr Dedman did a really good job of building the appropriate sympathy and empathy.
He also made me want to know more -- and I found myself doing online searches to determine how the estate was settled and where the lawyers and doctors were today.
When a book makes me want to learn more, it has done a good job.
I'm truly astonished by the wealth in this book! I have never even heard of W.A. Clark or his daughter Huguette, that's how reclusive she had become over the years. But this was a fascinating look into the world of the ultra-rich during a time period that I wish I could have seen but can only ever imagine. Recommended.
I looked forward to reading this book, especially as Dedman, one of the authors, is a Puliter Prize winner.
A great deal of the early part of the book was dedicated to W.
Arranged in such a manner, perhaps this book would have appealed to me more.
Because I received this book as a Firstreads winner, I felt compelled to finish it—it took me several weeks as I kept putting it aside.
Nonetheless, I would recommend this book to those interested in history and those interested in the facts and foibles of the fabulously wealthy.
This led him to discover that Huguette Clark had spent the last decades of her life in an ordinary room in a New York hospital, despite being in reasonable health and having multi-million-dollar real estate in New York, Connecticut and California.He discovered that Madame Clark, as she liked to be known, was the daughter of a copper baron, famous in his lifetime but now forgotten, and his very much younger second wife.
Somehow I missed all the hype about Huguette Clark when she lived and died and just happened upon this at the bookstore.
The gist: reporter discovers in 2009 that an American heiress named Huguette Clark has three enormous homes (in Santa Barbara, New Canaan, and Manhattan) and that she hasn't lived in any of them in at least twenty years.
After a quick marriage and Reno divorce, Huguette disappeared from society, living with her mother in their enormous Fifth Avenue apartment, painting in the Japanese style and collecting dolls and dollhouses that she often had custom made around the world.
What an amazing piece of American history I never knew anything about!
I had never heard of W.A. Clark, his family, his business, his unbelievable wealth.
As fascinated as I was with the history, I was completely taken by the intriguing and somewhat sad tale of Huguette.
What an amazing life - to have lived to almost 105...
were they deluded and schemers - YES, were they granting the wishes of a very sane and amazing woman - YES.
I found this title while picking up Secret Rooms, another tale of old family saga and secrets...
Maybe 3 1/2 stars. Especially enjoyed the material on the reclusive Huguette's copper baron father, W.A. Clark who amassed the vast fortune she spent so eccentricly. Well researched with extensive notes section. A nice long article in The New Yorker on the subject would have probably satisfied my curiosity.
It took me a while to get into it, but I will say that where other reviewers were unhappy about the amount of time spent discussing Huguette's father W.A. Clark, I actually really enjoyed his story.
However, she was very interested in friend's families and children.
It's a bit of a contradiction to be so concerned with the families of employees and friends but have little to no interest in getting to know any of her own relatives from her father's first marriage.
Her nurse, Hadassah Peri, started off as humbly accepting gifts, but as time when on it seems clear to me that she began to take advantage of Huguette's generosity and trust in her.
The fabulous amount of money inherited from her father allowed her to live exactly the way she wanted which included having two homes and three apartments that she didn't visit for over 20 years or more.
She's cured, but refuses to leave the hospital preferring to remain there with a private duty nurse rather than resume life in her beautiful homes.
The family is convinced that the nurse, attorney and accountant exercised undue influence in having her sign a will cutting them out and setting up a foundation for the arts at Bellosguardo.
I lived in Santa Barbara California for 18 years and never heard about Bellosguardo, one of Huguette Clark's empty mansions now valued at close to one hundred million dollars, nor did I know the accompanying bird refuge next to the zoo was a gift to the city in honor of her deceased sister.
We all knew about the Hearst family and their wealth.
One of the fascinating details in regard to Mr. Clark, her father and a United States senator, is that in todays economy, his net worth would be third in the world, only Warren Buffett and Bill Gates out-earning him, and until this book hardly anyone knew who he was, where all that money came from, and where it went.
I really enjoyed learning about W.A Clark's life, his climb to success and somewhat scandalous 2nd marriage, which wasn't revealed to anyone until it was nearly 3 years in the past, and had produced a 2 year old daughter!
I was astonished by the funds W.A. poured into building his fantastic mansion on Millionaire's Row in New York, spending many millions over a 13 year period of building, only to live there for just 14 years until he died.
Then there is the story of his daughter and her life, which is practically another book in itself.
After the passing of her sister, father and mother, Huguette lived a reclusive life.
This book explores her family's beginnings, what's known of her personal life and her decision to stay living in her hospital room until she passed away at age 104.
The authors (one of which is Huguette's great nephew), consistently treat their subject with respect and an open mind.
The book, told in chronological order, starting with her father's beginnings, is sprinkled with boxes that contain phone conversations she had with author Newell, photographs and lists of possessions and payouts she bequeathed to people.
