https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/57084.Gate_of_Ivrel
The taciturn Morgaine does little to aid in easing Vanye’s worries, but somehow along the way her actions and character cause him to gain a grudging respect and admiration for her and Vanye comes to understand the importance of the mission she has set for herself even though key details are unknown to him.I enjoyed the story and thought Cherryh did a good job of melding the science fiction and fantasy elements into a pretty seamless whole.
That niggle aside I thought the story was successful in presenting a fantasy-style quest set against seemingly insurmountable odds in order to reach the goal: in this case the destruction of the main qhal gate on this world.

Sword & Sorceress Adventure: Morgaine rivals Elric with her dragon bladeThis reviews Gate of Ivrel, which I read as part of the The Morgaine Saga which was DAW’s 2000 omnibus of C.J. Cherryh Sword & Sorcery trilogy (1.
Actually, this is my first C.J. Cherryh novel and I was impressed (Gate of Ivrel was her first published work, and it is quite good).Morgaine is reminiscent of Michael Moorcock’s Elric, since she is a doomed hero, traveling through interstellar space with a dragon-cursed sword that sucks souls (Morgaine’s blade Changeling is almost kin to Elric’s Stormbringer).
There was an expectation that Morgaine would stop at nothing short of destroying the Gate of Ivrel.
(Cherryh also prefaces the immediate story with some convoluted pre-history that will have you turning back several times to read.) Morgaine, the "witch," sports some space age weaponry, and a fascinatingly deadly sword called Changeling.
Vanye, banished from his own kingdom for killing a half-brother, swears allegiance to Morgaine, and follows her on her seeming path of vengeance (there's more to it than that).
But after close to 200 pages of this (and with Cherryh, given the way she writes -- this can seem like 400), Vanye comes across as an ineffectual weenie.
Morgaine herself, though her thoughts are never revealed for certain, seems the most straightforward: her quest is to close the Gates.But that goal is almost a background item as the story is told.
The petty lords of the Middle Lands fear and resent Morgaine because her first attempt to close the Gate failed, and the real history of that has been distorted and lost.
Those who do not fear have avarice for the Gate power and technology.
But even this avarice, in Erij's case, is backed by inadequacy and need to prove himself.Vanye is caught between the bonds of his new lord--"liyo"--and the personal debts he accumulates and his own honor, none of which does he see clearly.
This novel is set on a world that exists in a pre-industrial, feudal level of development with rival clans vying for High Kingship.
Vanye is a half-blood in a time when clans stick to their own, cast out by his father for slaying a half-brother.
During his wanderings, he releases Morgaine, a figure of century-old dark legend on his world, from a temporal prison and is made to swear an oath of allegiance to her and accompany her on her quest to seal this world's gates.
Vanye's only hope to win back his honour and cancel his outlaw status is to find a lord who will accept his oath of service for either a year or to carry out a task, though surviving such service is not easy.The story switches to his plight a couple of years later when, half-starved and freezing in the winter, he tries to shoot a deer with his bow, but succeeds in driving it through the pillars of what his people regard superstitiously as the Witchfires - a minor gate linked to the main gate on their planet - on a hill which is normally shunned but where he has accidentally wandered too close.
That missed opportunity has been remedied more than 30 years later.I'm glad I finally discovered Cherryh.
The world she evokes is rich, strange, and perilous in the best traditions of sword and sorcery.
By the final chapters, the tightening gyre of coincidence undermines the otherwise serious and authentic-feeling story.
Cherry's subtle take on heroism and conflict is a refreshing change from the bombast and hero worship of other books I've recently read in the genre.
I'll be sure to read not only the rest of the series, but try other series the prolific Cherryh has written.
Pues bien, no valen para nada ni esos dos principales así que no digamos los otros.La historia, en teoría sobre unas puertas que comunican el tiempo y el espacio (buen pinta, ¿no?) … estoy por ver todavía para qué valen.
El reto os lo podéis saltar, es filosofada barata.¿Os pasa que los clásicos de CF os decepcionan una y otra vez?
Vance, Heilein, Zimmer Bradley, Howar …sus relecturas han acabado siempre en fracasos.Y como hoy en día es fácil conseguir esos libros que en su día se me escaparon en papel, pues de vez en cuando caigo y los leo.
It's very old school -- formal, somewhat stylized prose, very compacted storytelling with lots of scenes that would be expanded into chapters and chapters in a modern book, and so on.
I wished at several points that she *wasn't* so efficient -- I especially wanted time to explore some of the more horrifiying plot points, like when one Bad Guy was trying to stuff his soul into Vanye's body -- but wallowing is just not what this book is about.
Fantasy?
Yes. Science fiction?
Also yes!
First read this when it was new, and it made me a lifelong fan of the author.
I think Cherryh is a great, great storyteller, and this is one of her top five.
Her enduring flaw, methinks, is a tendency to plant brilliant tales in middens of excess prose, and though I've read about everything she's published I've had to skip swathes of the last couple of dozen because they just went on and on to no purpose.
But this opener runs around 200 pages, and that's the perfect length (the sequels get pretty wordy, but are also worthwhile).
I wanted to like this one a lot more than I did. I just really had a fairly hard time getting caught up in it. I see a lot of others have rated it higher so it may just be me. I stopped here in the trilogy, though, and to this day haven't read anything else by Cherryh except some of the fine short stories she did in the Theives' World series.
I feel like what a lot of Lord of the Rings fans take away from it when they go on to write their own stuff is big epic battles and mysterious histories and different Species of people and magical objects and Journeys with horses and taverns and stuff.
Kanye is pretty uncomfortable about being her servant But as he gets to know her better, he begins to realize that Morgan is a more complex figure and the Legends didn't quite get everything right.
I would like to point out that this book was published in 1976, and the Cover artist is a man.I found the World building very interesting, complex and believable.
Don't give up with her books right away if you don't like it, just give it a little time.
In "Gate of Ivrel," we meet Morgaine, an other-worldly being tasked with a mission to destroy the Gates.
Described as "relics of a lost era," the Gates allow travel between worlds, but must be destroyed because they also allow time travel.
It's hard to describe "Gate of Ivrel." I think it's better to read the series as one book rather than as the individual volumes, to get the full impact of the story of Morgaine and Vanye.
Gate was Cherryh's first published work, and at this point she apparently had not yet settled on the "tight, limited third person" style that has since become her standard, and as a result this novel is narratively much looser and sloppier than her later works.
It begins with a long, incoherent, expository prologue that basically explains all the mysteries away—the story would have been much more interesting if these secrets had been reserved to be gradually revealed during the course of the story.Still, it's Cherryh, so it's hardly terrible.
Michael Whelan's Conan-esque cover illustration led me to expect something pulpy and ridiculous, but this is no sword-and-sorcery paperback.
Exiled by his family, Vayne's precarious social position makes him liege to the otherworldly Morgaine, come to destroy the Gates that link space and time.
This is science fiction wrapped in the trappings of fantasy, and reminds me--especially in the rhythm and nature of the worldbuilding--of other books that share that premise.
This is probably my least favorite of the Cherryh I've read so far, but by no means a disappointment; I will read the sequels.
This book was so awesome on so many levels.
I cannot wait to start the second book of this series and that's something.
I mean, a female lead who isn't romantically inclined written by a female author?
yeah, there are so so so few female fantasy authors and too many of those have written some seriously simpering female leads, books often get thrown across rooms, let me tell you.
anyway, all the recommendations to all my friends, I actually read every word of this book (which is unusual since I'm a manic skimmer with some kind of reading ADD).
First review was lost to the depths of the internet.Don't feel much like rehashing in depth, so basically: the cover is very misleading, the book isn't some stupid Conan ripoff. The world is less fancy than most fantasies, but it's not caveman chic like that cover artist would have readers believe. Good, interesting characters that don't feel like copies of other existing fantasy/sci-fi characters. Complicated motives, unpredictable at times, and well-rounded enough to care about. Female character not reduced to love interest or whiny princess.Must read next book.
Good story. Good narrator. Unique setting with well-developed characters. Good fantasy all round, iI will be reading the second one soon I'm sure
With this 70's action hero goes a truly terrible sword, one in the tradition of Stormbringer, one that gives any honest reader pause.Despite the surface narrative of two tough sword swingers, the story carries and undercurrent of imperfection and weakness, where the lead characters of Morgaine and Vanye show themselves humans underneath their layers of toxic-masculinity.
And like a cheap movie, the scenes between often prove dull and tedious, providing a little information, but mostly wasting your time.Despite the appearance of being well developed characters, both Morgaine and Vanye often come across rather flat and dull, just going about their way while continuously stumbling into danger.
However, I first gave this book a chance about twenty years ago, and have read it three times since.
It is an exciting and original sword-and-sorcery fantasy taking place in a dystopian future on a world where witch-fires give too much power to people who don't know how to wield it.
She helps Vanye, reminds him that she has Lord-rights on this world that were never rescinded because everyone thought she was dead, and claims his service to her needs.
The whole world considers her a vile traitor responsible for the death of ten thousand warriors, and Vanye is branded with her hated reputation everywhere they go.
This book is very Cherryh, with a clear, linear plot set in a vast, seemingly underpopulated world that has seen better days.
Character interactions often feel like first contact between alien races where the slightest misinterpretation will lead to catastrophe.
Gate of Ivrel has some pretty heavy themes.
The characters struggle to balance their emotions and concern for others with ruthless self interest.
Other characters in this book find themselves in the middle of that spectrum, struggling to balance the two.
You could say Gate of Ivrel is heavy on philosophy and light on action, but still manages to be an exciting novel.
I think the moment I most enjoyed in this book was when it became clear how the ilin system worked and what purpose it served in society. Before that, I found myself deeply skeptical of the world and confused why Vayne would do the things he did. After it, I had the most pleasant feeling of everything being exactly as it should. I was a fan of the combination of honourable + reasonable narrator and driven + desperate protagonist. Vayne makes an excellent Watson (or probably more accurate to the tone, Ishmael).
If you like CJ Cherryh, this book is your jam.It's quintessential Cherryh, with honor and oaths and complex pre-modern societies dealing with futuristic tech. And, of course, the vulnerable, honorable man bound to serve the super-powerful warrior woman. Yeaaaah I couldn't put it down. NOM NOM NOM stayed up late to finish it.My only objection is that I feel like it could have gone slower and explored everything more.
Kind of an opaque writing style (which almost put me off C.J. Cherryh for good after reading Pride of Chanur), but by the end of the book it mostly wasn't a problem, and the incredibly intriguing premise of the book as well as the loaded interactions between the two main characters made this book a truly good read.
Published in 1976. A unique writing style and deep character development power this tale of a disgraced warrior and a mysterious woman with a powerful magic sword. Much of this story details the journey more so than the action; so if The Hobbit or Lord of the Rings is a favorite book(s) of yours, this may be a story you will enjoy as much as I did.
C.J. Cherryh's take on Frodo and Sam's trek to Mount Doom? The setting is deep and imaginative, and the characters experience the events as harrowing and exhausting in a way that feels more real than your typical fantasy novel. The world is decaying, poisoned by the failing gates, and the characters are grim; it makes for an emotionally challenging read. No solace here.
I struggled with this book as it sat unread for months. Being a fantasy fan, the description and author had be very interested. Maybe I should resolve myself to being a modern fantasy fan, because I didn’t like the way the book was written.
He Man versi perempuan maskulin. Red Sonja ala ala
I feel like I enjoyed it, but I also feel like I had no idea what was going on. As I have the omnibus edition we'll see if reading the second book improves that.
