https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/21718.Blindsighted
I'm copying the rest below from my review of Fallen, the eleventh book in the series.For anyone who is interested in checking out this series, please note that it's important to read them in order since the author wrote two separate series that eventually merge.
Here's the order in which they should be read: Grant County Series:BlindsightedKisscutA Faint, Cold FearIndelibleFaithlessBeyond ReachWill Trent Series These two books can be read (in order) concurrently with the above, but read them before you read the third batch.TriptychFracturedGeorgia Series (merging of two sets of characters)UndoneBrokenFallenFair warning that they are fairly violent and occasionally gruesome...so they are definitely not for the faint of heart.
There's a tight knit feel in these first 6 books that I have yet to find anywhere else, which is one of many reasons why this series will be one of my all time favorites.
❤️❤️❤️**************************A reread for me, but with all these arcs piling up around me I felt I needed to pick up a book that is sentimental and just for me, one with no expectations that I already know I love.
I'm really pumped to start this series from the beginning again, as it's one of my all time favorites, and I'm hoping to write a proper review this go around.
So this definitely will not be my last and I think that I will probably find myself binge reading the rest of the books in this series.BLINDSIGHTED by KARIN SLAUGHTER is a gritty, edgy, engrossing, and suspenseful mystery / thriller that had me interested enough to turn those pages as fast as I could.Trigger warning as this author does go into some graphic detail that might be disturbing for some.The novel kept me interested and guessing with the right amount of clues as the mystery gradually unfolded to the very exciting ending.
It definitely felt like a first effort.
At times, it was very extreme (if fictional violence against women bothers you STAY AWAY), but if you can handle the extreme, the details make it all the more suspenseful.I felt a bit like some of the plot elements and twists were forced.
Even though it is supposed to be a mystery until the end, and while I didn't know why it all happened until the end, I felt like the way it was written the "who" was pretty obvious early on.Looks like this was released in 2001 and some of the elements are definitely specific to the time period.
This was good!! There are some graphic parts but you can skim it. Happy Reading! 🎃Mel 🖤🐺🐾
I have read this book before, a long time ago, before Goodreads had even launched.
So, although I know how things work out for some of the characters in future installments, I want to understand the full story, and refresh my memory about a few things before I continue with the Trent series.
If you haven’t read Will Trent yet, I STRONGLY urge you to read the Grant County books first because it will really help you understand the backstories that crossover into the Trent series later.
Blindsighted: Karin Slaughter's first Sara Linton novelAnd the publishers announce:First there was Patricia Cornwell! THEN there was Kathy Reichs! NOW GET READY FOR KARIN SLAUGHTER! Karin SlaughterWelcome to Grant County, Georgia. Don't look for it on a Georgia map. It isn't there. And in this fictional County, there's a fictional town. It's a small town called Heartsdale, somewhere around Madison, but before you hit Augusta.Eddie Linton and Daughters is a plumbing company in town. But it should
Blindsighted: Karin Slaughter's first Sara Linton novelAnd the publishers announce:First there was Patricia Cornwell!
Life's complicated when your Ex is the Sheriff and you're not only the town's pediatrician, but also the County Coroner.
She's out to find her own justice for her sister's death.Sara's autopsy reveals that Sybil was also raped and sodomized.
Slaughter has the ability to keep you flipping the pages to see what happens next.Could Sara be the next victim, Jeff worries.
Interestingly, Slaughter also refers to Sara as a medical examiner in one paragraph in which she also calls her a coroner.I'm jaded.
4.5 stars 🌟 ‘Blindsighted’ is the debut novel by Karin Slaughter first published in 2001.Sara Linton the paediatrician and medical examiner in the little town of Hearsdale,Georgia makes a shocking discovery in the local diner.
I read my first Karin Slaughter novel ‘The Good Daughter’ earlier this year and was amazed at how much I loved her writing.
You know reading Karin Slaughter’s work you are going to have to deal with a fair bit of graphic and gruesome descriptions.
For a debut novel Karin Slaughter’s ‘Blindsighted ‘ is very impressive and definitely one I would recommend.

"Blindsighted" by Karin Slaughter, is the first book in the Grant County Series.
If you love reading gritty suspense thrillers, you really must give Karin Slaughter a try.
But it's only when town pediatrician and coroner Sara Linton does the autopsy that the full extent of the killer's twisted work becomes clear.Sara's ex-husband, police chief Jeffrey Tolliver, leads the investigation - and then the suspense builds when another local woman is found crucified a few days later.
There is an unresolved love angle in here for the Doc and her ex-husband, who just happens to be the chief of police.
Simply amazing, that this was Karin Slaughters' debut 16 years ago!!! If it weren't for my friend Christine recommending this to me I may have overlooked it altogether. Thank you, Christine! Now I understand why this author has the following she does (including myself). In case you're wondering, I will be binge reading the rest of the 'Grant County" series then on to 'Will Trent'.
I decided to read the Grant County series by Karin Slaughter, having read Blindsighted a while ago, I thought I should give it a reread.
At the time I only gave it 3 stars, because those horrific images (things I have never heard of in any horror movie or book before, I'll admit I don't read that much of the genre), so that's why I gave it those measly amount of stars, but having devoured this in a few hours, I know I was gobsmacked and couldn't see beyond the cruelty to the craft of the writer.
Brilliant stuff!
I’m always in the mood for some Slaughterhouse!Karin Slaughter can write some dark thrillers, and I can't help but love every disturbingly graphic word.
Slaughter writes books that you can't put down, because the storyline is so involved.
It's the skillful development of characters that you can effortlessly connect with, and every action they take makes complete sense to you.
Blindsighted was Slaughter's debut novel (and what a debut!!), and I still kick myself for not finding her sooner.
Better late than never!Blindsighted is the first installment in Karin Slaughter's Grant County series.
Unfortunately, this is not last body as others go missing and crimes contain similar ritualistic elements.
Despite a good storyline, good character development and thrills and chills, the story may have been a victim of its own slick execution.
While I enjoyed the story and was interested in the outcome, I did not connect with the characters.
Content Advisories  It is difficult to find commentary on the sex/violence/language content of book if you are interested.
Violence  -  4 There are some disturbing elements of violence in the novel (see sexual content).
It takes a great book to get him to shut up and let me enjoy the story.
Blindsighted shut him down in two chapters.2.
Invade my life--I read every day on the elliptical trainer.
But Blindsighted had me reading through all my airline flights, in the limo, and on my couch.
Make me sad when it's over--Someone once said that finishing a great book is like saying goodbye to a friend.
Finishing Blindsighted was a bittersweet experience.
I'll miss it.The book has powerful characters, great writing, and a chilling plot.
I love the research she puts into her books.
Having a background in Forensics, I really appreciate her books and the research she puts into this.In Blindsighted, a professor is found murdered in a restaurant.
The professor turns out to the twin sister of a police officer who works for Sara's ex-husband, Jeffrey.Will Sara's past hold the key to solving this case?
What will happen between her and her ex-husband Jeffrey?As stated above, I love Slaughter's attention to detail.
I love the police work involved, the investigations, the forensics, even the autopsies are well done in this book.
This book was voted as our June Book Read by our group " A Good Thriller"Happy this book was voted as have enjoyed quite a few of Karin Slaughter books, although good to read this book as her debut book and the introduction of her character Sara Linton.Karin Slaughter--a wonderful name for a crime/mystery writer--sets her novel in a small town in Georgia.
Nothing much happens in Heartsdale, and the local pediatrician, Sara Linton, also works as the coroner.
It's not long before another victim surfaces, and Sara works along with her ex-husband who also happens to be the Chief of Police to try to track down this sick killer.
I have read Karin Slaughters, Will Trent series, and loved it. I was a little apprehensive about starting this series because I thought It may not be as good. Wrong, it was very good and will definitely be carrying on with the next book. Kathleen Early is an excellent narrator.
If that wasn't a weird enough combination, her ex-husband, Jeffrey Tolliver, is the town's police chief.
The crimeSarah goes to the local diner for lunch with her sister.
When she goes to the restroom, she finds Sibyl Adams, a professor at the local college who is also blind, covered in blood in one of the stalls.
When another woman is assaulted in a similar manner, it's clear that they've got a possible serial killer to deal with.
Jeffrey is also trying to get back into Sarah's life while trying to work with her to solve the cases.
Absolutely loved re-reading this 1st book in her Grant County series!
Well, this didn't work for me at all - I haven't even wanted to pick it up for two days. Our main character was more scared than I could believe considering she's the coroner and dead bodies aren't foreign to her. I believed the shock she felt when she first saw the body, because you're not expecting something like that ever, but after that all her nerves were just annoying to me. Or how she was cradling the victim when the cop came, as if she were really close to this person, but she wasn't, s
Another cop, but at least this one had an actual personal connection to the murder victim, is searching for anything that could help shed light on who did it, and she's looking for the diary, but it's in braille since the victim was blind, and as the victim's lover picks it up to translate it the cop thinks: "For some reason, Lena got the impression she was touching the pages because [the victim] had, as if she could absorb some sense of [the victim] rather than just words." For. Some.
Ok. This book does not read like Slaughter's Pretty Girls at all.
I've loved everything I've ever read of hers, and this was no exception.
Blindsighted is the first in her Grant County series, and features doctor and coroner Sara, and her ex-husband/chief of police Jeffrey.
When Sara and Jeffrey are thrown together to work on a case that hits close to home, Sara realizes her own secrets can't stay buried any longer.
I loved this one from the very beginning, and I was immediately hooked!
Like many of Slaughter's other books, Blindsighted is graphic and depicts violence, torture, and rape, mostly directed toward women, so if that's not your thing, this isn't the book for you!
Prvo druženje s Karin i budem nastavila s Triptihom i ostalim Will Trent nastavcima. Znači da mi se svidjela ideja, način pripovijedanja.. No, ima ponavljanja, tako da bi se bez problema moglo "maknuti" cca 100 stranica. Bila bi radnja brža i napetija..
After this read, I think I need a shelf called "books you need a support group for" because wow.
I've been eagerly anticipating my headlong dive into Slaughter's backlist and knew to expect..
well, things, but I could not (and would not have ever) expected this.
Especially as my own support group, my Slaughtertime buddies who were along the ride for this one with me (and will be forced to endure my updates all the way through both series'), warn me book two is especially intense.
I have been making my way through Karin Slaughter's Grant County series ever since I read Pretty Girls and The Good Daughter earlier this month.
Chelsea, my good pal over at The Suspense Is Thrilling Me, suggested I go way back and start with the first book in the Grant County series, Blindsighted and, man oh man, am I happy I decided to do that.
The first novel introduces us to the characters in the small Georgia town of Grant County where a professor is found brutally murdered and defiled in a publish washroom.
Liked this book, I never figured out the bad guy until the very end. Look forward to more of these characters.
This time around I listened to it on my I-pod and enjoyed it every bit as much as the first read.Karin Slaughter is an accomplished author who has never disappointed me.This is the first of her Grant County series, in which we meet paediatrician and coroner Sarah Linton and her ex husband, Police Chief Jeffrey Tolliver.
(Men - take note here!)I am making this sound more of a love story than it is.....for it is a story of grisly murder, one that appears to begin with the grisly murder of a local college professor, a blind woman and sister of the county's one and only female detective on Tolliver's force, but in reality started long before this particular murder.Strongly recommended.
Dark, emotional, heart-pounding book...not for the faint of heart but definitely a Page Burner! Loved it.
My third book by this author...loving her work!
3.5 stars I think this is the second book by Karin Slaughter that I have sat down and read straight through.For a forensic-type thriller I enjoyed it.
Slaughter has thought up some pretty gruesome twists on a serial rapist/murderer plot, and I liked Tolliver, the chief of police, quite a bit.
That's the feeling that I got with most of the book - like you'd gotten dropped into town on Main Street, by sheer happenstance on the day there is a gory, nasty murder in the diner.
On the same day as the murder (main plot point) happens, Sara Linton, (a pediatrician at her day job) has just gotten word that one of her patients has terminal cancer.
