https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6784686-leaf-by-niggle
Another  enchanting, captivating  and  instructive  story by Tolkien. Short, very simple and yet filled with wonders and a hidden complexity. It was like a very beautiful fairy-tale written for children who haven't lost the ability to see the world with all its miracles yet. The story of Niggle was like a painting itself.I loved it from the first word and until the last one. Niggle is an artist who paints just for himself. He spends a lot of time on his huge canvas of a tree with a forest and
The story of Niggle was like a painting itself.I loved it from the first word and until the last one.
He spends a lot of time on his huge canvas of a tree with a forest and mountains in the distance, but the ordinary life often distracts him from his painting.
When it is finally time for his journey, Niggle is faced with the unexpected...This story was as simple as it was complex.
Tolkien's books and stories really seem to be about death, or more life and death.
This after taste was the Death in his books and stories.
(view spoiler)[Bettie's Books (hide spoiler)]
And I love this little book.
This little book is about Niggle: a sweet, little man who loves to paint and has a soul to create beautiful things.
The problem is he can't seem to manage his time and get over his perfectionism long enough to actually finish his project.
I won't spoil the ending, but the ending overcame me with the reminder that...creating art is not a waste of time.
I love my job.
So I struggle to manage my time enough to sleep, eat, work, and write.
Am I wasting my time?" Awww, Niggle.
Most of these things he thought were a nuisance; but he did them fairly well, when he could not get out of them: which (in his opinion) was far too often..."Tolkien's story, which was something of an allegory of his own life as he labored to write The Lord of the Rings, turns out to be an allegory for all of us, particularly those who follow Christ and desire to live a life for His Kingdom.Central to Niggle's identity was his work on his magnum opus, a sprawling mural of a tree.
And yet, as Tolkien tells us from the outset, so many other things pressed in on Niggle, he was left with little time to work on his tree.
Part autobiographical, part allegory, Leaf by Niggle has a lot to unravel for a short story. Whether or not you consider yourself a resident of Middle-earth, it's worth checking out some of Tolkien's lesser known works as well.
So simple and deep. Both at the same time. Makes you think.
A strange but beautiful short-story. To me it seems to convey the importance of art, and especially of artists. No matter how small their skill, it should be allowed to grow, develop and not be repressed or dismissed. An artist's work cannot flourish on it own, it also needs support and appreciation and sometimes it becomes a collective venture. My favourite passage is the first description of what would eventually become the Leaf painting: It had begun with a leaf caught in the wind, and it bec
A strange but beautiful short-story.
To me it seems to convey the importance of art, and especially of artists.
An artist's work cannot flourish on it own, it also needs support and appreciation and sometimes it becomes a collective venture.
My favourite passage is the first description of what would eventually become the Leaf painting:
It had begun with a leaf caught in the wind, and it became a tree; and the tree grew, sending out innumerable branches, and thrusting out the most fantastic roots.
This story also reminded me of Oscar Wilde's The Happy Prince.
Both stories are sad, yet inspiring hope.
But it could not be denied that he began to have a feeling of-well, satisfaction: bread rather than jam.
He could take up a task the moment one bell rang, and lay it aside promptly the moment the next one went, all tidy and ready to be continued at the right time.
He had no "time of his own" (except alone in his bed-cell), and yet he was becoming master of his time; he began to know just what he could do with it.
He was quieter inside now, and at resting-time he could really rest."A very important read for anyone who has struggled in the creative process.
This is the most wonderful, thought provoking tale. It is beautiful, human, inspirational, warm, melancholic, sad, soul-searching, philosophical, dreamy, truth seeking..., but told in such successful simplicity. Though all ages would enjoy this, I think it has an enormous amount to say to adults. So far this is the best of Tolkien's 'other' stories (ie not LOR) that I have read.I thoroughly recommend the superb Harper Collins recording, read by Derek Jacobi (on the CD with “Smith of Wooton Major” – another charming story)
A wonderful little tale by Tolkien that everyone should read. Although those who really do need to read it will not read it. A great way to learn about selflessness, responsibility, art, friendship, meaning, power, and so much more. And so skillfully done. The world has a lot to learn from Tolkien if they'd read between the lines.
The only bad thing about this story is that it is too short.

This story makes me happy. Niggle is, I'm guessing, Tolkien.
I think because I had prefaced reading this book with Tolkien's essays on Beowulf as well as C.S. Lewis' The Great Divorce, this short story hit me with peculiar force.
A sparkling (perhaps autobiographical) metaphor for the Christian Artist, it is perhaps my new very favorite short story ever.
I found myself wanting to adapt it into a play, but I'm not sure it would be possible...
I don't want to say more than that because it needs to open itself up to each reader on its own.
This is a short tale about a painter who is working on a picture leaf by leaf, his speciality. He becomes annoyed at the constant distractions of his neighbours and friends appealing to his good nature. A wonderful little story which sees Niggle achieve his ultimate goal and is a pleasure to read.
A short work by the master -- written in a troubled time in his life -- on art and duty and their meaning in life and afterlife.
اگه میشد حتی از پنجم بیشتر به این کتاب که واقعا محصور کننده بود میدادم
Poznanik mi je dao da ovo pročitam u njegovu prijevodu i ovo je uistinu predivna priča. Voljela bih je imati u tiskanom obliku.
So when I heard that a theatre production of the story by the Puppet State Theatre Company was touring with it, we all went along to see it.
But after a preamble, delving into his own family history for reasons that aren't immediately clear but become so later, Medrington begins telling the story of the painter, Niggle, and his attempts to paint a painting of a landscape he glimpses in his imagination, but can't quite grasp.
Richard Medrington and his team at Puppet State have done wonders with Tolkien's little tale, and brought out the vast world that is necessary to make even one, little, leaf.
Tolkien had it right when said:"...that story was the only thing I have ever done which cost me absolutely no pains at all.
It took only a few hours to get down, and then copy out." "I should say that, in addition to my tree-love (it was originally called The Tree), it arose from my own pre-occupation with the Lord of the Rings, the knowledge that it would be finished in great detail or not at all, and the fear (near certainty) that it would be 'not at all'.
But no such analyses are a complete explanation even of a short story..."
It makes sense Tolkien would be the one to write this. Getting torn away from what you're creating is always pretty painful. Lord of the Rings is more elaborate than most projects, and must have been exciting to work on.I've always wondered if our creations are reflections of things inside us that will eventually be more fully realized. You probably don't need to create anything in Heaven. I guess it makes you calm down a little.
You may read online here.Opening lines:There was once a little man called Niggle, who had a long journey to make. He did not want to go, indeed the whole idea was distasteful to him; but he could not get out of it. He knew he would have to start some time, but he did not hurry with his preparations.
It is a very short story (probably the shortest one I have read so far) about a painter called Niggle. This story was meant to be a story with a moral of some sort I guess. After reading few reviews, I realized Tolkien was probably talking about death in this story. But I did not enjoy reading it much. I am starting to think that his short stories are not good enough for me. Maybe I had way too many expectations going into them considering how amazing his other books are.
A great Catholic allegory that describes the challenges of the restless artist having to fulfill his earthy roles. The stories we want to tell may not be fulfilled in purgatory, but there are ways for Protestants to still enjoy and apply this story. An insightful story into the mind of the man who created the entire world of Middle-Earth.
Reminds me of reading George McDonald’s fairy tales. Requires some work, but the work is worth it in the end. Perhaps more importantly, I will probably look back on this little book as the one that finally convinced me to read “Lord of the Rings”.
Leaf by Niggle is wonderful read - sweet, delightful, and deep.
Quite lovely!
Certain elements reminded me vaguely of themes in many of Tolkien’s other works, such as the concept of the Undying Lands (whether that be the mythical land of faerie/Valinor or heaven depends on the story) which seems to be a theme that was important to Tolkien and I’m sure was influenced by his Catholic beliefs.
*shrug* I’m wavering between a 2 and 3 star rating, so… Why don’t we call it 2.5 (rounded up to 3 until such time as Goodreads deigns to give us half stars) and leave it at that.Content advisory:  I’d wondered before starting this if it was another of Tolkien’s children’s stories, but I don’t believe young children would have much interest in this, and would probably just be confused by it.
Considered to be an allegory of Tolkien’s life, “Leaf by Niggle” is a tale of an artist, his creation, and his community. Perhaps the true meaning of the tale stems from the idea that one should take every opportunity to explore and engage in the beauty around them, whether that is the beauty of nature, the beauty of community, or simply the beauty of living. From Niggle’s journey, Tolkien gives the reader the opportunity to examine their own life and their tendency to choose perfection over the appreciation of the world around them.
Realmente me duele en el corazón cuando las traducciones me odian. Lectura obligada en .pdf, ya que estos cuentos no se encuentran por ahí sueltos y felices de que alguien los consiga fácilmente. Quiero volver a leerlo, esta vez buscando aún más entre líneas. Me gustó mucho el significado de esta historia tan simple pero, a la vez, bastante extraña. Debería buscarlo en inglés y prestarle más atención.
