https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/53414.62
Aunque me sitúo en el lado de acá desde donde observo conmovido su urgente necesidad de trascendencia, me acomodo tan deliciosamente a su ritmo, me fascinan tanto su tono, las palabras utilizadas como nunca nadie, esos finales de frases que no se rematan tan expresivamente, me emociona tanto su angustia, me enternece tanto su esfuerzo por encontrar en la vida esa rendija por la que poder penetrar en el otro lado, en ese paraíso en la tierra donde se desencadenará el coágulo y ya para siempre, donde se sabe sin saber, se llega sin haber partido, se elige sin renunciar, se es sin definir, que de una forma extraña y poderosa siento su llamado, el signo oscuro de su misma literatura, sin tener, ni querer, racionalizarla.
I think what I'm actually going to do is like a CliffNotes sort of thing, where I tell you first a few reasons why this book is nearly impossible to read the first time, then give you the cast of characters and a few things they do, so that if you do try to read it, you'll have some hope of figuring out what's going on before you're 3/4 of the way through.
The first thing that's important to know is that Cortázar does this thing with time where it does not go the way it's supposed to, like in a way everything in the book happens all at once, in a clearly impossible way.
Staggeringly good. Ultimately it might be 62 and not Hopscotch or Blow-Up that endears Cortazar to you forever - but one way or another, you will be endeared. Cannot recommend this highly enough - strange elliptical and haunted sad beauty, it reminded me of a night long ago I watched the reflection of a foreign city (Pisa?) iterated in reflection on the surface of its river - oily, deep in a dream, stars strewn if you looked closely enough and wanted them to be there - but all in inverted undulating correspondence. Wonderful.
The episodic "Hopscotch" may have higher highs, but this is Julio Cortazar's greatest novel from start to finish.
The point of view keeps shifting from character to character, slowly emphasizing a collective web of relationships over any one personality.
Cortazar has profound insights into friendships and amorous relationships, but he offers them at steep and oblique angles.
The book teaches you how to read its peculiar shifts and emotional hues and half-tones, though it can be tough going in the beginning while you're getting the hang of it.
YOU SHOULD READ THIS.
cortazar'ın en uç noktası bu roman. okurlarının mümkünse tüm külliyatını tamamladıktan sonra tırmanmayı denemesi gereken bir zirve. tuhaf karakterlerin tuhaf varoluş sorgulamaları. zamanda, mekanda sıradışı gidiş gelişler, satırdan satıra değişen anlatıcılar, bilinç akışı, çözülmeyen gizem, muamma ve tabii metaforlar metaforlar. başdöndürücü.
I've struggled somewhat with Cortazar, to the point that I actually wrote a long entry here explaining how we just weren't made for eachother at page 100.
Reading Chapter 62 gives the impression that 62: A Model Kit would be coldly analytical, abstract, un-feeling; which in a way is true, but somehow it also manages to be deeply moving.It opens with a character experiencing a plexus of coincidental events while sitting in a Parisian café on Christmas Eve, and (at least in my reading of the novel) his stabs at trying to comprehend the elusive but obvious significance of these events bring the rest of the novel into being.
No se puede leer este tipo de libros en forma estructurada y rígida de los libros, digámosle "normales" sino con la capacidad de amplitud necesaria para adecuarse a la originalidad que el texto plantea y considero que eso es lo que debemos aplicar en "62/Modelo para armar".No voy a escribir de lo que sucede con los personajes porque creo que es algo que el lector debe descubrir desandando líneas, párrafos y páginas.Sólo me resta decir que yo siempre aplaudo este tipo de libros y es una de las razones por las que admiro tanto a Julio Cortázar y su inventiva genial y única que se suma a otros escritores originales que no se casaron con una sola manera de escribir y eso es lo que los diferencia de tantos otros.Porque como dijo mi querido Herman Melville: "Es preferible fallar en la originalidad que tener éxito en la imitación."
From both a thematic standpoint and in terms of a general reaction to the book's flow, the closest analogue for this from my own reading experience would be Joseph McElroy's Lookout Cartridge (published six years after 62: A Model Kit), although that novel carries more of an aura of growing menace and suspense, whereas Cortázar's book establishes a baseline of melancholic intrigue that more or less remains at a stable level throughout the work.
The two books also share common ground on a structural level, with frequent shifts in tense and point-of-view coupled with a general disregard for linear time.
Very interesting and unusual novel. It's a bit slow to start with and not an easy read by any means but well worth the effort. It's too bad more people haven't read Cortazar.
But the experience of reading this book is anything but scientific, it is like waking up from a dream: you genuinely feel things in your own logical way, but now that you're awake and back in this world it is impossible to put into our human words, words that are real ones, that seem so insufficient, mere human words which are the same instruments that Cortazar uses to make you feel this way to begin with.
I don't know if that makes sense, but in his sentences sometimes I see the perfect unadulterated writer, driven purely by something within the writing itself, within the sounds and the logic that has nothing to do with things outside.

A tale of two cities. One is Madrid the other imaginary. A tale of two novels written by itinerant, international authors both of whom had Spanish as their first language. A tale of two experimental novels. One I loved; one I did not. Can you guess which is which?Cortazar published 62: A Model Kit in Spanish in 1968; the edition I read was translated in 1972. Alfau published  Locos: a Comedy of Gestures  in 1936 in English. Cortazar had Argentinean parents but was born in Europe then moved back
Can you guess which is which?Cortazar published 62: A Model Kit in Spanish in 1968; the edition I read was translated in 1972.
Cortazar seems to be peopling an imaginary city with characters and scenarios imagined by the very characters in the story, but unfortunately they never seemed real.
, Alfau seems to be following in the footsteps of fellow Spaniard Luigi Pirandello who wrote a play in 1921 entitled Six Characters In Search of an Author.
The story begins (roughly) with Alfau, playing himself, at a cafe with a "friend" who becomes a character in the book.
This cafe is where bad authors go to discover characters for their stories.
I just want to know what the my paredros is in gut wrenching situations, or being dreamstruck or trying to feel right about something so you can move on.My paredros when reading 62: a model kit wasn't about the city but about the people.
El experimento de Morelli en el capítulo 62 de 'Rayuela' termina siendo una maravilla de novela.
Con mucho del aire de la misma 'Rayuela', '62/Modelo para armar' se siente como una segunda parte o al menos como una ramificación digna del tronco de origen.
Cortázar en su mejor momento, con un estilo particularísimo, esa manera de pasar casi imperceptiblemente de un narrador a otro en medio de un mismo párrafo, como si las consciencias se pegaran unas con otras y se confundieran.
Un nuevo grupo de personajes memorables, más memorables, me atrevo a decir, que los del club de la serpiente; aquí todos son protagonistas perfectamente caracterizados.
En fin, una novela deliciosa.
An abstruse and maddening afterthought from Hopscotch, this novel is Cortázar’s most challenging and experimental work, bursting from Chapter 62 in which Morelli contemplates writing a book “in which standard behaviour would be inexplicable by means of current instrumental psychology” (blurb).
A series of intellectuals in Paris, Vienna, and London intersect inside the thicket of Cortázar’s shifting and free-floating prose, in which tense, character, setting, and narrator can change within the space of a sentence, creating a fluid, surreal, nonsensical, lyrical style that requires intense concentration and offers an intentional obstruction of the reader’s usual expectations of linear sentences.
Failed to locate the scintillating spark that others found in this one.
Everything would be a kind of disquiet, a continuous uprooting, a territory where psychological causality would yield disconcertedly, and those puppets would destroy each other or love each other or recognize each other without suspecting too much that life is trying to change its key in and through and by them, that a barely conceivable attempt is born in man as one other day there were being born the reason-key, the feeling-key, the pragmatism-key.

Una lettura disorientante.Ci si chiede, nel leggerla, dov'è ambientata la scena, di che si sta parlando, e si torna indietro per rileggere meglio.Tanti racconti, tanti luoghi in uno, tante facce di un unico prisma, componibile appunto.Geniale, Cortázar!
-A ver, Andrés ¿Si no te gustó Rayuela, para qué lees esta madre, sabiendo que es básicamente "Rayuela - VR Missions"?-Pues por pendejo, por qué más.
And there's certainly something hippie-faux-intellectual-bohemian about the crew of Argentian ex-pats in London, Paris and Vienna throughout this baffling-but-addictive book, which was grown out of one of the "disposable" chapters in Cortazar's earlier more famous masterpiece "Hopscotch".
Honestly, I didn't understand this book the first time I read it.
I think I understood it even less the second time.
But then I started reading it a third time.
There seemed a fine line there when said wanted to take something from Celia.I loved all of the Tarters deeply, with the exception of Helene/Frau Marta/The Countess.
Until she slept with the silly Austin.Marrast's letter to Tell, that they did not love themselves which is how they allowed to be touched by them was quite revealing.
I never got until that point the girl Frau Marta was assaulting in the hotel room was Nicole, nor that Juan sighting of Marta on the train car had been a hint.The use of the city to highlight the subconscious desires was riveting.
Oh my god. This book was sooooo hard to read. It skipped around in the chronology and the narrator changed frequently, sometimes even in mid-sentence. I'm not making it up. And there were sentences that could be an entire page long, and seemingly unaware that punctuation existed. It was such a frustrating book to read! I don't even really know what it was about. Definitely a one, or maybe even just a .5
Кога го читам Кортасар, дишењето ми престанува или никогаш дотогаш не постоело.
Geen idee hoe Cortazar dat flikt, ook niet nu ik "62- Bouwdoos" voor de derde keer lees.Het uitgangspunt van het boek is hoofdstuk 62 van "Rayuela", waarin de fictieve auteur Morelli intrigerende literatuurfilosofische gedachten ontvouwt over de anti-psychogische roman die zich, anders dan traditionele romans, totaal niet zou houden aan conventionele opvattingen over logisch rationeel denken.
Een pluriforme werkelijkheid ook, waarin verbeelding even realistisch is als realisme, waarin iedereen in meerdere werelden tegelijk kan bestaan op meerdere niveaus, en waarin conventionele afbakeningen m.b.t. tijd, ruimte en identiteit volkomen poreus zijn."Rayuela" is opgezet als een hinkelspel, waarbij de lezer kris-kras het boek doorhinkelt en niet lineair (van kaft tot kaft) leest.
No es fácil, recomiendo leer Rayuela antes ya que este libro no es más que lo que Morelli planteaba en el capítulo 62 de Rayuela, pero explayado, utilizando personajes diferentes en un mundo y situaciones diferentes.
Este libro no es para ese lector al que Cortázar llama “lector-hembra”, quién “se deja transportar durante 300 páginas y 8 horas, sentado en una nube (...) hasta llegar a la palabra FIN que es una especie de Orly de la literatura”.
Este libro es para el que prefiere “lápiz en mano, peleándose con el autor, mandándolo al diablo o abrazándolo”.
Una secuela de Rayuela si es que se puede decir eso de esta excelente novela, nos lleva a Paris, y otras ciudades europeas con personajes perfectamente estructurados y humanamente bellos. Triángulos amorosos, vampirismo, y la aventura que lleva siempre encontrar a esa persona a quien creemos amar.
Читать Кортасара все равно, что гулять по летнему ночному парку в маленьком городке, где все друг друга знают, вместе с хорошим другом, за руку, блуждая по темным аллеям зеленого лабиринта свежести и тайны.
В начале пути все ясно и понятно, тут и так возникают знакомые образы и силуэты, ты замедляешься на секунду произнести приветное:"здравствуй, как дела, чё", затем устремляясь дальше, не отпуская и не отставая от своего старого друга.
Маленький вакуум маленького общества, незримого соседства отчаяния и явного эгоцентризма.Меня чуть напугало самое начало и аннотации, где говорилось, что роман можно собрать по частям - уж больно это напоминало «игру в классики».
El estar con una persona solo por costumbre o por conveniencia y saber que tienes que salir de esa relación pero no sabes como.La manera en que te describe como te entregas a otra persona pero no solo físicamente, sino cuando ven realmente quién eres más allá de tu desnudez física sino interior, y te hace ver esa persona quién eres en realidad y nunca te había atrevido a ver.No es un libro fácil de describir, necesitas tomarte tu tiempo, meditarlo para apreciar lo que te quiere decir con unas simples páginas,se que no le alcanzo a hacer justicia con esta reseña, como bien lo dice es un modelo para armar, esta hecha de tantas piezas pero cuando logras que encajen sientes que te atraviesa.
Reading it feels like you're in a different dimension the whole time; each sentence makes sense in some spiritually-derived sense, and you can feel the white magic of the prose heal your troubled nerves.
But not white magic in the Graves' sense, for this is not a moon goddess that drove Cortazar to write this.
This seems to be driven by an intense urge to engage the reader with characters in a "city zone", where mental images are formed at will, or something like that.
