https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6736971-the-desert-spear
The Desert Spear is a totally different kind of sequel from what I expected after my experience with The Warded Man, luckily, still in a good way.Anyone who has read this book will know that there’s no way I’m not starting this review without talking about Jardir’s POV.
Although inferior compared to The Warded Man, The Desert Spear is still a solid installment in the Demon Cycle series and I can’t wait to read the continuation to these characters story.You can find this and the rest of my Adult Epic/High Fantasy & Sci-Fi reviews at BookNest
I loved it and I'm so glad! There are so many mixed reviews, although, I'm trying to stay away from those and decide things for myself. I did enjoy the back story of Jardir and Abban, but I was glad to get back to the peeps I love the most; Arlen, Renna etc! I hope I love all of the books but we shall see! Happy Reading! Mel 🖤🐶🐺🐾
Good Stuff. Brett's series continues to surprise me. I like books that don't go in the direction I expect them too while still providing an interesting story.
Book 1 was difficult for me, b/c realistic or not, I don't like or want to read about women as "spoils of war." Even without war, I know that rape and sexual abuse happen everyday.
I guess I held on b/c I was so impressed with THE WARDED MAN that I kept reading "to get to the good part."But even after the horror and violence, there was.
Introducing new POVs is important, but the way this was written was almost like tacking a separate novella onto the beginning of the actual book.
The Warded Man (Demon Cycle, #1) by Peter V.
Not as good as the first book in the series but I still enjoyed it. In The Warded Man, the first book in the series, the plot revolves mostly around Arlen who eventually becomes the Warded Man, or in the second book, the Painted Man. I really found myself relating to that character and hoped that The Desert Spear would continue that storyline. Unfortunately, that is not the case. The first half of the book concentrates on Ahmann Jardir, the character that betrayed Arlen and stole his magic spea
In The Warded Man, the first book in the series, the plot revolves mostly around Arlen who eventually becomes the Warded Man, or in the second book, the Painted Man. I really found myself relating to that character and hoped that The Desert Spear would continue that storyline.
The first half of the book concentrates on Ahmann Jardir, the character that betrayed Arlen and stole his magic spear in the first book.
When you pick up a sequel and have to spend half the time reading about one of the characters you learned to hate it's really not a pleasant process.
Unexpected! From page one, this book has sped up in the direction so very different from what I anticipated after finishing The Warded Man. Result =  WHIPLASH!  Which is fun, by the way. (From Peter Brett's site, the gorgeous illustrations for the Polish edition of this book. Absolutely beautiful!)We get a full 180 degrees turn on the atmosphere of this world. Suddenly the corelings go from being the overwhelming menace of the night to little more than a nuisance - WHIPLASH! (Well, at least unti
From page one, this book has sped up in the direction so very different from what I anticipated after finishing The Warded Man. Result = 
*waving happily* We missed you for several hundred pages!) I love what you are becoming, but you're getting there so fast and kinda out of nowhere that all I can say is WHIPLASH!Leesha!
But I love Leesha, and so that's cool, Mr. Brett.Overall, Desert Spear is an enjoyable book that takes a sharp turn from its predecessor and delivers an interesting story full of great characters.
The Warded Man was a pretty good debut, but this sequel just didn't live up to my expectations and left a bad taste in my mouth.
To be honest, the story is pretty good and could be developed quite well.
Everyone is doing it or talks about doing it in every other paragraph, slipping into some strange ren fair-esque jargon when they mention anything about female anatomy and sex.
There is also some strange preoccupation with rape and incest.
It seems like every other character gets raped.
The women are pretty much all horrible.
A lot of his story was actually flashbacks to his life as a child and his rise to the position he found himself in when Arlen met him in The Warded Man. I found this a real struggle early on as Jardir and the Krasians are total scum.
Pretty much all the characters had interesting and engaging story arcs but the only characters I really felt had good books were Arlen, Leesha and Rena and even they had their annoying moments.
My biggest moan about The Desert Spear is the fact that I felt like Brett was trying to make the reader sympathize with Jardir and the Krasians in general.
Furthermore, it’s not even the sheer volume alone that bothers me, but the forgiving attitude towards the rapists.And here’s where you’re going to raise an eyebrow at me – I thought a good portion of the book (that following Jardir – whose POV I actually liked more than most) could’ve been a lot grittier.
I think the crux of the matter is that, no matter which end of the spectrum I’m considering, I had issues with a lot of things.That said, and to be even more contrary, I actually enjoyed the process of reading a lot of this book.
The book is written in third person multiple POV of Arlen, Leesha and Rojer the original MCs and the additional Jardir and Renna with occational few POVs from Abban.CharactersI love the characters so much and the character development of all the characters is amazing, apart from that of Leesha which I don’t know the direction the author is going with her.
Wonda is amazing, I really hope Leesha gives Gerad another chance and I just want to know what it is Inevera wants.PlotThere is a new breed of demons that can read minds and also control people, among other stuff that are spoilers.The Krasians are invading the northern part of Thesa to recruit for an army to fight demins and to also dominate the northeners with Jardir as their leader.
I loved this book so much. Review to come when I can write one😁. Review slumps are the worst!!
I think I've written way too long reviews for the other Fantasy novels that I liked.Let's start with what I found enjoyable:Jardir.
If I thought that The Warded Man was really badass, well, now I've read about Jardir.
I wanted to become the Warded Man before, but now I think becoming Jardir would be better.
I read The Warded Man because I heard that it was full of action, and I loved the first novel for that.
Now that I'm thinking things through, I believe I was a bit too new to the genre when I read The Warded Man, and that's why I enjoyed it so much.
The Warded Man continues his work, spreading the wards of the ancients and the ability to fight demons, denying that he is the Deliverer.
A new Deliverer rises in the southern desert, seeking to unite all of the world in the Daylight War. Can he do it?
Leesha has grown into the leader of Deliverer's Hollow.
The Warded Man contiues to fight his slide away from humanity.
Old threads are tied up and new ones are introduced.The Desert Spear is more demon-killing goodness in the vein of The Warded Man. I can't wait for the next volume.
A very old enemy of mankind has come from the core to deal with the demon killing Warded Man and the new Shar'Dama Ka Ahmann Jardir.The Desert Spear was an exciting yet very different sequel than I expected.
Jaik was a jerk especially since Arlen didn't whisk Mery away even though that's what she wanted.I love the Mind Demons and the Mimics.
The Mind Demons and Mimics allow Arlen and Jardir to be stronger without things getting boring.
This book is similarly compelling but more ambitious in term of world building, it does not exactly carry on where The Warded Man left off, however.Fans of the fist book who started reading this volume immediately after finishing the first one may feel disorientated by the first third of the book which goes a little backward in the timeline of the first book and a switcheroo of POV to Jardir the "Shar'Dama Ka" (that's deliverer, for those who didn't pay attention in their Krasian class).
Fans of the first book is advised to stop wondering about where Arlen the Warded Man has got to and just kick back and enjoy Brett's world building and attention to details.
This was a little disappointing especially in a series that is all about groups of people coming together for the cause of warring with demonkind.Luckily, there's enough going on that this isn't too big of an issue, just something that was a little disappointing.The Desert Spear, book 2 of the Demon Cycle, begins by following Ahmann something something something Jardir, who we met in The Warded Man, and exclusively deals with the events in Krasia and Jardir's history...and this lasts for about a quarter of the book.I know many have complained about this aspect of the book, that the book takes far too long to get to Arlan, Leesha, and Rojer, but I'm a firm believer that delayed satisfaction does in fact make you appreciate your favorite parts.But, I can't really say that I even loathed reading the first part.
I really enjoyed The Warded Man, the first novel in Peter Brett's Demon Trilogy, and was really looking forward to reading this sequel.
First, one of the things I like about epic fantasy trilogies is when the plot begins fairly small and then develops into a larger and larger story as the novel unfolds.
Second, I really like world-building and descriptions of other societies and customs and Brett does a superb job with his detailed narrative of the Krasians.
Third, I like larger-than-life characters and this book has several with the two most prominent being the Krasian leader, Jadir, and the Warded Man, Arlen.
For a full first third of the novel, I had to calm myself down and wonder why so much time and effort was being put into humanizing Jadir, the man who had betrayed Arlen so brutally in the first book, but I eventually got over it.
The good, the bad, and the ugly.Arlen and Leesha and the one-time weak Renna play big roles in this book, too, never fear.
Arlen revisits his past and there are all kinds of awesomeness here, but what is most surprising is how cool Leesha has become, from a young wise-woman healer to a whirlwind of change to love interest of a certain warrior.
:)But who was the most surprising?Renna.
As good as the first book but for different reasons.THE DESERT SPEAR takes an about face as we leave Deliverer's Hollow behind and head for Fort Krasia and a whole new POV.
The first time I read this book I was so pissed when I didn't immediately return to find out about what Arlen was up to that I didn't enjoy Jardir's story as fully as I did this time.
It's a bit of a slap in the face at first but Jardir becomes just as interesting and crucial to the story.That along with the addition of Renna Tanner to the story make this sequel an enjoyable return to THE DEMON CYCLE world.HIGHLY RECOMMENDED.
The second book in this series is almost just as good as the first, but not quite.The story is still fantastic, but the POV’s are littered with jumps between past & present and it just doesn’t feel right. There is nothing wrong with the past views, I loved the back story, but I think it would have better served in a prequel and felt like it detracted from the overall story. Every time I got into the present story, SHIFT, back to the past. Aaaarrgggh!Still, a page-turner and definitely recommended.
The second lengthy entry into the Demon Cycle series...There are 4 distinct sections to the book.If you came into this one directly from 'The Warded Man,' you'll have to change gears rather abruptly.
Some of the sections, on their own, would have gotten three stars, but the parts set in Krasia, and the those involving Renna's family, bring this down to two for me.I'm not totally writing off continuing with this series, but I think I'll give it a break for a while and try a different epic fantasy next...
I'm not sure who would find the Leesha-Jardir love story at all likable, but it certainly wasn't me.I say "most characters" because Desert Spear does a good job with two characters - the continued adventures of the Warded Man as well as his love interest, Renna.
Whereas Rojer, Leesha, and Jardir end up feeling and acting like angsty teenagers by the end of the novel, Renna and Arlen's story develops nicely.
There's a good sense of how far Renna's mind has stretched, and in some cases, shattered.I can't recommend The Desert Spear.
Um pouco abaixo do 1º livro, me pareceu mais uma preparação para alguns grandes acontecimentos no 3°. Umas 50-100 páginas foram só de enrolações amorosas e coisas desse tipo, o que não era tão necessário, se fossem só umas 30 já teriam sido mais que suficientes, era melhor ter focado no mundo em si, que é muito interessante, e em explicar mais sobre os demônios, principalmente os demônios da mente e seus príncipes.De melhor, gostei bastante da primeira parte, toda sob o ponto de vista do Jardir, agora o Shar'Dama Ka dos krasianos.Lerei os próximos, sem dúvidas.http://desbravandolivros.blogspot.com...
Meh.
He is the perfect foil for Arlen Bales, aka the Painted Man, who epitomises the American frontier spirit with his 'none of that Deliverer nonsense' approach to fighting demonkind with their own magic, and making a damn fine job of it too.I won't accuse Brett of doing anything so obvious as trying to reference one of the perceived great struggles of our times in his fiction, but his choice of early colonial America and early Islamic Middle East as his cultural templates does make for fascinating reading from a 21st century standpoint.
But for the last couple of months nothing could capture me, distract me, draw me in and hold me.And then I picked up The Desert Spear, and something funny happened.
I loved it when I read it, so if you didn't at least like it as well, this review probably won't help you decide whether or not to read Desert Spear.
But if you at least liked Painted/Warded Man..
I said I rated Painted/Warded Man five stars..
Because after reading Desert Spear?
But I think it's also a testament to Brett's story telling ability.
Many parallels can be seen within Arlen’s agrarian society, which is extremely patriarchal and very hidebound (very like medieval Europe), something which can happen when a society is under siege.It almost seems, in this installment, that everyone has become much too comfortable with the demon-haunted night.
Hints are happening that we may soon get the POV of the demons—will they get the same sympathetic treatment as Jardir?Arlen and Jardir were friends at one point—now they are rivals.
I’m displeased that my library doesn’t have book three and there’s no time for them to order it before I see Peter Brett at the When Words Collide conference in August.
For the past couple of days I've been trying to come up with an insightful review that would explain why this book completely changed my feelings for this series.
And I'm sorry to say but...
I failed.My dislike for this book was such a visceral thing that I cannot really explain it.
I can however point things I didn't like: - The book starts with a new PoV for whom I cared little.
Suddenly everyone is finding new partners and some of them (Arlen's in particular) are just annoying.
Sorry, but nope.
Not continuing with this series after this.
My enjoyment of this book was variable, I didn't care for the first third, loved the middle and thought the end was ok.
I didn't much like Jardir or the Karsians and I was very eager to get back to my favourite characters from book one and see what they were all up to.
I finally got my wish and the rest of the novel became more fluid and changed povs in much the same manner as in the first book.
I thought the ending was a bit of a let down, but I'm excited to see what Brett has in store in the last few books.
This series is not quite working for me and I'm not sure why. Perhaps I have lost the knack of reading epic fantasy. This one (like the last) left me longing for the pace of the plot to accelerate and and leave behind all the slow-moving-ominous-looming dread-like stuff. But that really didn't happen.
