https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/30004.The_Continental_Op
But what of the more obvious suspect, Gantvoort's 23 year old wife to be?Not a bad way to start the collection.
The mystery was pretty good, though I had some idea what was going on about halfway through.The Golden Horseshoe: The Op goes to Mexico to bring back a rich woman's husband and gets more than he bargained for...This story nicely illustrates The Continental Op's place in Matthew Scudder's ancestry as the Op bends the law to get a man put away.The Girl with the Silver Eyes: A poet hires the Continental Pop to find his missing lover.
Also a main character in the OP whose narrative is so interesting that he could carry many collections/books more on his own.The OP is so different from other hardboiled PI's and not only in his looks.
The stories are darker, more corrupt world than the latter more traditional detective stories that Marlowe and co is involved in.Hammett is also after more than just writing entertaining detective stories, his world view at the time he wrote the stories is presented in the stories.
The stories in this collection like most of his other writing show clearly he was a detective who wrote what he knew about in his fiction.
If you're into stuff like this, you can read the full review.Reports for Pinkerton's: "The Continental Op" by Dashiell Hammett(Original review, 1981-03-01)Hammett made no secret of Hammett’s wider (I suppose "wider" will do) literary ambitions, or that he earned his living writing a particular kind of story long after he'd have preferred to write something else.
What I don't know is how and especially when he picked up his knowledge of literature.
He left school at fourteen and set out on an amazingly varied series of jobs.
Somewhere in the course of these he learned to write.
But the contemporary reader of hard-boiled fiction wouldn't have so much on the shelf if it hadn't been for Hammett who single handedly created the genre.The man with no name, but operates with a strict code of honor and ethics, is a force to be reckoned with.
Hammett had a lot left in him by the time he was blackballed during the McCarthy Era. It's a good thing he had the good fortune to have the love and support of a good woman, Lillian Hellman.
And, never for a minute think there's not some Hammett that shines through the plays of Lillian Hellman.
Hammett’s Continental Op could easily be called the Anti-Sam Spade. Anonymous, overweight, and absolutely loyal to his employer, the Op is one of the finest first-person narrators in all of hardboiled literature, and this collection of short stories bristles with ‘30s slang, droll humor, and plenty of Bay-Area verisimilitude.
You know him ‘cause some other bird name of Hammett wrote up some of his cases and published it under the moniker “The Continental Op.” I know ‘im ‘cause he’s the lout what put me here in Alcatraz.Yeah, I read 'is book.
(What else do I have to do for the next six years?) This Op sure leads a charmed life, if you can believe this lout Hammett.
No, not because of his lucky streak with guys like me or the fact that he got Hammett to write about ‘im or that the book is sellin’ like hotcakes.
I’ve been on a crime novel kick recently and the latest is one of the Dashiell Hammett books I haven’t read The Continental Op. It is a collection of stories-some interlocking about the detective agency unnamed continental operative.
For example, he summarizes Hammett’s philosophy that “..how despite everything we have learned and everything we know, men will persist in behaving and trying to behave sanely, rationally, sensibly and responsibly.” He also points out that Hammett runs on a principal that is direct opposite of that postulated by Erik Erikson as the fundamental and enabling condition for human existence is that society and social relations are dominated by the principle of basic mistrust.
All in all, a very entertaining collection of stories.
Hammett's Continental Op picked up where he left off (or began) in the “Red Harvest”.
This compilation brings the Continental Operative to various cities and different missions.
There are about six or seven stories ranging between 40 – 60 pages.
Someone said brevity is the heart of wit and with poetic fragments like "I stepped into a triangular slice of the night” and “ the girl with eyes the color of polished silver” sandwiched in between bloody corpses, gun shells and jealous lovers- Hammett bared the bones of wit.
These stories each generate the final “twist or snap” we as readers come to expect from ‘shorts’.
This gets the full five stars. Prototype hard boiled detective stuff that holds up well eighty some years after being written. It's a collection of short stories that would work as a tv series in the present. The continental oop was Hammett's precursor for Sam Spade. Most of the CO stories are available in three anthologies so I'll be obtaining the other two. I'll probably explore some Raymond Chandler also.
Poviedky, v ktorých sú muži drsní, ženy ešte o trochu drsnejšie a život za nimi v ničom nezaostáva, takže ideálne na šmirgľovanie lavíc alebo ako rozprávky na dobrú noc.
***.This is a collection of Hammett’s short stories that originally appeared in BLACK MASK magazine in the 1920s that featured the Continental Op as the hero.
The character of the Continental Op was used in two later novels, “Red Harvest,” and “The Dain Curse.” After those two novels were published, Hammett dropped the “Op,” and developed his new protagonist, Sam Spade.
Remember that Hammett was writing these stories to make a living at so much per word, and typically wrote them in a short period of time.
As you can see I read this years and years ago (when the vintage series came out with these nice reprints of Hammett's works).I don't consider this his best work, but like all of his books it is well-crafted and very enjoyable. The "Continental" Op (operative) is based on experiences that Hammett himself experienced as a Pinkerton detective or heard from other Pinkerton agents.The Op is nothing like Sam Spade or Nick Charles, but if you like mystery and hard-boiled, American detective fiction, you should pick this up and treat yourself.
Early short stories from the rightly famous author of The Maltese Falcon and The Thin Man.I liked to see the writing style and the development of the impassive detective. My version came with an intro by Lillian Hellman. Almost as interesting as the stories themselves.
The Word for this book (or the short stories I read from a different book that isn't on Good reads and thus had to use this one) is: Economical.My detective kick continues with the first PI detective fiction ever written.
The reason I use the word Economical is that the usual fluff of a PI detective novel, the instant sharp descriptions of characters when introduced, the sensations of the fight broken down into the minutia and the specifics of how a PI works are used very seldomly but precisely.
That being said the things I like the most about these stories are their descriptions and the things I mentioned earlier.
When we think about hardboiled detectives, we often think of Sam Spade and The Maltese Falcon.
Nothing, however, ever beats the original, and the original was The Continental Op. Most of the great crime films I have seen over the course of my lifetime were either tangentially or directly influenced by this figure: Yojimbo was the Op; The Man with No Name was the Op; even Tom Reagan was the Op. All three great characters were derived from Dashiell Hammett's detective.
After all, the Op was the protagonist of the gritty and bloody Red Harvest, and he possesses an ethics that is utilitarian in nature, but ultimately good.
It's a great collection, but since it's not as good as Red Harvest, my rating is as such.

Klasszikus krimi novellák Sam Spade megalkotójától. Tetszettek.
Πολύ ωραία ιστορία και με ιδιαίτερη ένταση, μου άρεσε πολύ ο τρόπος που ο Κοντινένταλ βρήκε μια άκρη.
Τελικά τα πράγματα δεν είναι καθόλου όπως φαίνονται και στην πορεία ο Κοντινένταλ θα δει ότι όλοι έχουν, λίγο-πολύ, λερωμένη την φωλιά τους.
Τελικά τα πράγματα δεν είναι καθόλου όπως φαίνονται αρχικά και πολλά μυστικά θα βγουν στην επιφάνεια.
Και αυτή πολύ ωραία ιστορία, που νομίζω ότι κλείνει με τον καλύτερο τρόπο την συλλογή.
Ο Κοντινένταλ Οπ είναι ένας ιδιαίτερα συμπαθητικός τύπος, που δεν μπλέκεται συναισθηματικά και θέλει πάντα να κάνει σωστά την δουλειά του.
Part of the problem was I had grand - and unfair - expectations after reading The Maltese Falcon a while ago.
Part of the appeal of that book is the character of Sam Spade; the Continental Op is not nearly as interesting.
One thing The Maltese Falcon and The Continental Op unfortunately share with each other, and a large portion of detective and mystery fiction, is the sometimes convoluted scenarios the heroes find themselves in and some of the over-the-top criminals.
The action scenes, of which there are many more than there were in The Maltese Falcon, are sometimes well drawn but sometimes a little incredible.
Hammett’s The Continental Op is series of short stories with the detective with no name, a sort of blueprint for the tough minded, gritty, street-smart detective we would see in future books and films.
Anyone who is a fan of the classic, hard-boiled noir will enjoy this collection of short stories.
All of the stories are entertaining, but one of my favorites was “The House on Turk Street”, which has the Op kidnapped by a trio of thieves, one of which is a dangerous woman who the Op reads instantly as being the most lethal of the group.
He also invented modern crime fiction.This isn't a comprehensive collection of Hammet's Continental Op cycle, but it does have a good selection of representative stories.
Hammett is a master of putting just enough of a twist into each story to prevent them from feeling formulaic.
Reading The Continental Op, you get the exciting feeling of witnessing the creation of a genre that would define American comics, movies, and popular fiction for decades, and you also get one of the most purely entertaining and well-written examples of that genre.
The Continental Op is recommended reading for any fan of crime fiction for both its historical and its entertainment values.
I had some initial difficulty adjusting to the language and time period involved in these stories bu
The Man with No Name - no, not Clint Eastwood, the other one - the Continental Op, Hammett's squat, sardonic and almost unstoppable detective protagonist, who manages never to be named in all of his man appearances.
Not to mention that the Continental Op takes a ridiculous beating in virtually every story, one that seems to leave him mostly unaffected.
If you are looking for a series of hard-boiled detective stories that will intrigue, entertain and puzzle, then this is an excellent place to start.
If you like old style, hard-boiled detective stories, this book is for you.
It's a collection of short stories that Hammett wrote featuring the Continental Op. He's a tough detective in his 40s that works for the Continental Detective Agency.
Most of the stories take place in and around San Francisco in the 1920s and 30s.The Continental Op was the prototype that Hammett used for Sam Spade.
As I was reading this book, I kept picturing Humphrey Bogart in the role of the detective.A lot of the stories have similar ideas.
It makes me want to sit down and watch some old Saturday detective serials on TV.
I didn't realize this was a short story collection until I was halfway through the first story.
I understand that the Continental Op character is the archetype for hard-boiled fiction and that Hammett wrote these stories based on his own experiences as a Pinkerton detective, but they aren't necessarily great.
They feel like pulp magazine fiction and are generally straightforward 'and-then-this-happened-and-this-happened-after-that." I understand that Hammett's writing became more nuanced by the time he got around to writing Sam Spade novels but I haven't read them to compare.
However, being a detective in an era of telegrams and telephone operators is a nice little time warp.
Esquire had a list of the 75 books every man should read, and I noticed this book was on it, one of the few Dashiell Hammett books I hadn't read. It was a perfect read for me because they were a series of short stories that I could read in the morning before work. Anyone who likes good detective stories should like Hammett's hard-boiled characters anyway, but the no-named Op just reads like Bogart (or perhaps a huskier version of him). "The Golden Horseshoe," the first story, is probably my favorite, but they're all worth reading.
I'd never read any of Hammett's short fiction before and was pleasantly surprised by what I found. These are brisk, snappy stories that are ludicrous fun to read and more on the action side of the spectrum than the sleuthing, which suited me just fine. The Golden Horseshoe and The Girl With the Silver Eyes were my favourites of the bunch, though the oddly surreal The Farewell Murder was probably the most memorable piece, with its mix of African tribal curses, Russian millionaires and a psychopathic British ex-military man.
Hammett's San Francisco is the older brother to Chandler's Los Angeles (and grand-daddy to Ellroy's America). The city's alleys slick with wet fog, bad cigars and dark hearts. The bay a constant, cold beacon, less a landscape than a mechanism for orientation when you've got a bullet in the gut. Our city may have lost almost all of her all-night diners and soda fountain neon to the vagaries of the 21st century, but there's still not much better than reading these stories during a hearty December rain.
These are some of the earliest of Hammet's stories featuring the unnamed 'Continental Op'. Most of them are good, but the only one that approaches the excellence of the the Continental Op novels ('Red Harvest' and 'The Dain Curse')is 'the Main Murder'. In this story Hammet displays his talent for creating memorable secondary characters and crackling dialogue.
So this dude...the Continental Op....he's a streetwise tough in his own right, who doesn't seem to mind getting his hands dirty. The Frisco PD should be glad he stays, for the most part, on the right side of the law.This collection epitomizes the heart of good noir. I have already ordered Red Harvest from the library. Glad to have read it.
