https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/908092.The_God_Project
Holy shit, where do I begin...The book opens with an infant's death.
Mother's of nine-year-old boys never notice that their sons have never been badly injured or have ever taken ill, and when they are injured, refused to acknowledge that they just saw their kid heal like fucking Wolverine before their very eyes.
The first is when a kid dumps acid on his arm, and when the blisters immediately disappear, she shrugs it off and thinks, "It must not have been so bad." Dafuq?
Don't you think you'd be fucking terrified if your kid dumped acid on his arm and the blisters just vanished?
All Fall Down is also published as The God ProjectThe door was slightly ajar.There was no sound from within, and for a moment [she] felt an unreasonable sense of panic.This is an uneasy read.The first half of the novel is innocuous enough.
That is… until the trap is sprung and you realise that the false sense of security was exactly what the author was counting on.I had some suspicions, and even although at least one turned out to be true, I didn’t quite see the ending coming.
To truly understand, you would have to read it.
I am going to have to put him in my favorite author list along with Dean Koontz, Stephen King, Bentley Little and Laurell K.
Just that little list alone should give you a little insight into what my favorite types of books are.
Genetics and the Department of Defense all have a role to play and its still shocking all the way til the end of the book.
Saul writes a futuristic tale for the time that this was written, and it is fast paced and hard to put down.
Things keep getting interesting and it left me wondering all the way til the end.
I always enjoy reading a John Saul book every now and then because you can always count on several things: good writing, evil children, satisfying story. The God Project is no exception. The story centers around two families and their two boys: Randy and Jason. But these aren't ordinary children. After the death of Jason's infant sister, the parents work to discover a cause but the cause may be closer to home and worse then they could have imagined. A quick easy read for horror fans. It is not one of his scariest books, but it's a good one nonetheless.
THIS BOOK WAS THE SH*T WHEN I WAS 13!Seriously, back then this was the coolest book I had ever read.I refuse to revisit the inside of the pages because I KNOW it will not hold up to the standard set in my memory from 28 years ago.
This is the first John Saul book I have read and I have another eight of his books on my shelves so I went into this hoping I enjoyed it and not have nine books by an author I don’t like.Turns out that I am looking forward to reading more John Saul.I have bought all nine John Saul books as he is a popular 80’s horror writer whose stories I want to read.
It reminded me of Jericho Falls, a book that had the same 80’s vibe and also featured a conspiracy.The story features two families whose two children are involved in a vast conspiracy of genetic engineering which changes them and makes their lives frightening and scary.
The God Project was my introduction to John Saul's work.
By the end of this book, I was pretty disappointed.
It read fast and kept me mildly interested, mostly because of the dated 1980's high tech computer/DNA descriptions.
There is a 1 star review from 2015 that parallels (in detail) a lot of what I didn't enjoy about this book so I'm not going to take the time to write it here.
I did have higher expectations from Saul but ultimately, this book was FINE; not the best, not the worst.If anyone has any John Saul recommendations that might alter my opinion of his work, I'm all for it!
Passable - I expected more of this, but in the end it was predictably enough.
It is certainly science fiction, but it is also a thriller and a suspense and a mystery.
That makes the story a mystery to be solved.
That makes it a suspense.
The book was published originally in the early 1980's and, let's face it, there have been a lot of progress in both genetics and computer science since then.
The quaintness of how these fields were perceived at that time kind of stands out and brings an occasional smile, but it does not in any way detract from the suspense and excitement in the story.
If you like science fiction and if you like a fast paced thrilling mystery then do read this book.

Once again I am reminded of John Saul's reliability. I've read a half-dozen of his books and the worst of them was still pretty good. A big point of his stories are the characters are just flawed humans acting as flawed humans should. There's no great underlying preachiness, he picks a target, one within the realm of reasonable fear, and builds some chills and thrills. This one tackles heartlessness of science and military industry to convey a particularly chilling tale with a super-good-times finish.Fast, feels highly plausible (my ignorance of DNA probably helps this notion), ultimately entertaining.
I read this book as a teenager and I have to say, this is by far still one of the scariest things I have ever read. I sum it up as the Stepford Wives meet the womb. If you want a good thriller, this one you should pick up!
I read this one over 20 years ago, but the ending still sticks with me. The writing is so-so, but I feel the ending was so awesome that it deserves 4-stars.
I had given this book 3 stars until I came to the end.
I liked the mysterious survey that no one knew anything about, and the fact that the women who didn't want their children at first were the place of the experiments.
The main reason I was disappointed was because I thought at the beginning of the book it was established that Jason had in fact murdered Julie, and then re-enacted it with Fred proving that it wasn't the BCG injection after all.
I was hoping there was a parallel story-line aside from the main point.
I had so much high expectations about this book.
Sadly i couldn't quite get in to this book.
It was my first ever John Saul book that i can recall reading.
i don't think i've read any of his work's before and  it left me very disappointed.
Well i was very disappointed.
i did take this book on my wedding trip with me, but i'm kind of glad i left it till i got home now.
I'm not going give up on John Saul but  I guess this book is like marmite you either love it or hate it.

I own a few of Saul's books and do enjoy the stories.
I picked this one up as a break from my normal authors but similar genre.
The idea behind the story and everything was pretty good, the ending I was glad was not the typical "happy ending" so made me a bit proud that the author did not give in and do what was all expected.
I got in to the story easily enough and finished the book quickly, but about half way through it seemed to peter out and became easily predictable until the ending.
Great idea for a tale though!
This story was only a little over 300 pages but was pretty boring. I'm guessing that maybe in the early '80s, the genetic engineering and computer critiques were new and fresh and enough to make up for the rest of the story. I thought the writing style was a little amateurish considering how revered Saul is. I'm guessing that maybe his later books are better.
A good story but far longer than it needed to be and some annoying typos
Interesting concept - secret genetic engineering of super warriors. Quick read but not much depth.
Maybe I'm being harsh but the creepy artwork and blurb on the cover of this book seem kind of misleading to me. A thriller it may be but a horror it is not. And the author's decision to focus on a pair of hysterical mothers unravelling the mystery of their children's true nature rather than the body horror/awakening of the boys involved drains way too much of the eeriness out of this story. It's a shame too since the plot showed a lot of potential. Disappointing.
Ze krijgen hulp uit onverwachte hoek, maar ook de tegenwerking komt van een kant dat ze niet hadden verwacht.
Je denkt dat je het antwoord weet, maar dan opeens is er een wending die je totaal op andere been zet.
Het is een boek dat je niet mag missen als echte Saul fan.---John Saul is geboren in 1942 in Pasadena, Californië.
Zowel zijn agent als Dell waren laaiend enthusiast en zagen in dit verhaal een bestseller.
Naast auteur is Saul ook acteur, scriptschrijver en is 1 van zijn boeken in 1984 uitgebracht als film.
The first few chapters of the book would leave you wondering: is a supernatural force responsible for the death of a baby?
I felt it became a psychological suspense because it now dealt with growing rifts and suspicions between the characters (John Saul did this superbly in the Blackstone Chronicles where there is apparently no supernatural culprit and the characters' fears and emotional/psychological turbulence led to deaths and devastation within the community).The action and conflict though skyrockets in the end where the true nature of the characters and the system (apparently the God project involves the collusion between a leading pharmaceutical corporation, the medical community, and the government)is revealed and what the God Project survivors turned out to be.Note that this book is written sometime in the 80s.
Interesting read.Great story line that kept me eager to keep reading. I did get confused with so many characters but the ending will definitely keep me thinking.
Something fishy is going on in the once quiet town of Eastbury, Massachusetts, where two women are brought together after losing a child.
Sally Montgomery loses her infant daughter Julie to SIDS, but she is convinced it was something else.
Lucy Corliss loses her son Randy, who is reported as a runaway, but she is convinced he was kidnapped.
Both parents discover that their children were secretly being surveyed by CHILD (Children's Health Institute for Latent Diseases) without consent, but why?
I highly recommend this book, conspiracy theories, genetic engineering, kidnapping, murder, this book has it all, a must read!
Could the sudden unexplained death of Sally Montgomery's otherwise healthy baby daughter and then the mysterious disappearance of her neighbor, Lucy Corliss' young son be an indication of something amiss in the otherwise peaceful small town of Eastbury, Massachusetts?
Could the fact that those two children and other Eastbury children have been secretly monitored since birth by a covert medical research firm going by the unlikely acronym CHILD have anything to do with it?
It's another silly movie of the week plot from John Saul that is for some reason ever so much more entertaining than it has any right to be with a decent ending to wrap things up.
I gave it 3 star because is not a bad book, it just isn't very appealing.The plot (3,00) is not all that original but is almost good; a bit slow in the first half of the book, better in the ending.
It remains very predictable since the beginning.The writing style (3,25) is sometimes slow but at least is simple and clear.The characters (2,50) are not well developed and presented.
You find you don't really care for them.All in all I don't recommend it, but I don't advise against it either.
I actually give it a 3 1/2 star rating. I don't think this anyone did any proofreading on this book before sending it to printing! There were so many spelling errors it interuppted the fluidity of reading in several spots scattered throughout the book. As for the story itself, great thought, captivating, and excellent last 1/8 of the book I didn't see coming at all! Nicely done ending.....not choppy like some who run out of ideas and just leave you with nothing except no explanation and everybody died....the end! Nope! You'll enjoy this ending or at least be surprised.
Wow. Talk about creepy. Two mothers find out that something isn't right with their sons. Not only are they extremely healthy, but they can't get hurt. Something is happening in the town of Eastbury and it's affecting their children. It's really hard to talk about what happens without giving away any spoilers, but it's definitely a quick read. I couldn't put it down! Stuff like this creeps me out.
I only gave this one 3 stars because 1) I wanted to get it off my shelf and thought a good Halloween book would end the month nicely, and 2) if you can get beyond the pure 80's motif such as the schools not reporting or contacting parents when a child doesn't show up for school or smoking in the hospital lobby then you'll get through this book just fine. I had forgotten how well John Saul writes. May read a couple others....they need to come off my shelf too!
