https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/64396.The_Adventures_of_the_Stainless_Steel_Rat
A collection of three stories featuring the ex super-criminal turned super cop, The Stainless Steel Rat. In the first one, he is caught, recruited as a super agent, and sent after another criminal. He at first fails, and learns the criminal is a ruthless woman, with whom he falls in love.From there, the pair take on other criminals.Good stuff. I can see why the character garnered a cult, but to be honest, feels a bit dated today.
One of my favorite Sci-Fi stories and characters of all time. The Stainless Steel Rat! Ultimate thief. Loved every page.
His skills and ethics get him recruited into the Special Corps, the real secret police, run by former thieves.On the plus side, when the books work they really work.
Slippery Jim always has a new identity, a clever plan, a non-lethal solution that has a lot of chaos and him walking safe and sound through the middle of it.
But the next two books have less cleverness and more straight up non-lethal violence with sucker punches, sleep gas, and smoke grenades as he goes after militarists trying to conquer the galaxy and a time travelling megalomaniac.

The Stainless Steel Rat (1961), The Stainless Steel Rat's Revenge (1970) and The Stainless Steel Rat Saves the World (1972) by Harry Harrison.Omnibus edition of the first three Stainless Steel Rat series.
It was explained pretty quickly that stainless steel rat was a metaphor.
In Revenge Jim is sent on a mission to Cliaand to find out how they are conquering worlds and building an empire when interstellar warfare is seemingly impossible.
There is a lot of action, the characters aren't very deep, even Jim seems to be straight from a 1940's or 50's Private Eye novel, with the slight twist that he's not law abiding and he's placed in a future galactic civilization.
So if that's all you want, certainly an "OK" read.I actually only read the first of three stories in this book.
I kind of think that's a cheat and prefer something a bit more clever if I'm going to spend my time reading it.
So it's probably a FANTASTIC suggestion for middle or high school kids that are just starting out (nice and "clean" without the sex/violence/language you might find elsewhere).Glad I finally read _something_ with the "Stainless Steel Rat", having seen these book titles for decades now, but I won't be back...
Not having an infinite life and TONS of other books I still want to read...
The first story introduces us to James Bolivar DeGriz, alias the Stainless Steel Rat. He is a thief with honor and morals and steals with impunity – until the Special Corps catch him in a neat set-up.
The Corps need brilliant criminals like “slippery” Jim DeGriz to accomplish this.
The final romp is a wonderful time travel adventure, where the rat bounces around chasing the evil alien to Earth’s past and elsewhere.What makes the Rat series so wonderful is the effortless first-person narrative Harrison writes.
Dated and sexist, but still good mindless fun. I loved this book as a teenager, but can now laugh at it for slightly different reasons.
He’s right for the job, apparently, because normal people “exist in a fat, rich union of worlds that have almost forgotten the meaning of the word crime” (8), because of “centuries of genetic control”; he therefore exists as a rat “in the wainscoting of society,” operating “outside of their barriers and outside of their rules.
Climactic confrontation with villain of part I occurs on an “old, caste-ridden, feudalistic” planet (79), which nevertheless has mixed in modern things from the interstellar League such as “computers, mechanization, robots, and an ever-vigilant police force” (id.)—the mix allowing room for the SSR to work (the old system would recognize a stranger, whereas the new regiments everything and prevents crime).
Harrison made him a lot of fun to read and this book is great for a long weekend or a week of quiet evenings.The only problem with reviewing a 3-in-1 book is that one book sometimes drags down the other two.
That happened here.The Stainless Steel Rat is a five star book, The Stainless Steel Rat's Revenge is a four, maybe four-and-a-half.
The Stainless Steel Rat Saves the World is a solid two however.It is still a good read however, so I can recommend you pick up this book or find the individual novels if you can.
Science fiction is not my favorite genre to read but this was light and fun. It was like reading a 1980 version of Mission Impossible.
Not sure about other reviews but all three stories have merit here. These are not my favorites but worth a read.
originally read many years ago and fun to read again. funny to read a sci fi book from the 70s when navigation recorded on tape was the assumed high tech. still an enjoyable read.
Or at least, that's the vision of this book--a collection of three shorter novellas threaded together by connection to the same lead character.It must be said that this is the first book in quite a while that has not required me to push through the beginning to get into it; Harrison managed to draw me into his story quickly and easily, and to keep interest high most of the way.On the other hand, there were lots of moments in which technological shortsightedness caused discordance between this early 1970s work and modern systems--most glaringly, the use of tapes for data storage for computers, but also a reference to fanfold paper on a printer.
Harrison has a talent for spinning an engaging, amusing yarn and “Slippery” Jim DiGriz is a cool character.The Adventures Of The Stainless Steel Rat collects the fourth through sixth books in the series, The Stainless Steel Rat, The Stainless Steel Rat’s Revenge and The Stainless Steel Rat Saves The World.
I think it’s interesting to note these were the first three books Harrison wrote in this series, whereas the first three books were written later, in the 80’s.
It’s interesting Harrison chose to jump a few decades between book three and book four when going back to write books one through three.
I honestly don’t know.Anyway, good books, funny characters, string writing, lots of action and just enough suspense.
Good sci-fi of the golden era, but my goodness does it say a lot about the era in question.
Additionally, it contrasts sharply with what I'll call more constrained science fiction.
In some great stories, a single scientific invention is explored, its consequences followed to their conclusions.
This is wonderful because the reader can develop intuitions, really become part of the science fiction world.
In Stainless Steel Rat, the author throws in a new mega-gadget every five pages.
This appears to be the result of sloppy story-telling: "crap, how do I get him out of this one?" And then the new invention never rears its head again.
It was still a fun read, but a little thin...
It's a solid set of books in the "dime-store serial adventure" category, and what it lacks in foreshadowing, it makes up for with bravado and charm.I give this a solid three stars within its genre - lumping it in with the oeuvre of  Jules Verne,  Sir Arthur Conan Doyle, and  Edgar Rice Burroughs.
It's a fun read that any adolescent boy (or man in search of the nostalgic) would easily and readily plow through in a weekend or less.
If you're looking for something that will challenge you to new perspectives and really pull you in, you'll find this one very thin on substance.In short, it's a fun bit of brain candy...
There are some great ideas in this, but the charcters grate and fast paced rapid plot turns wear thin.
It is just a good fun caper.The Second book, "The Stainless Steel rat's Revenge" is a quite effective commie bash and justification for the CIA, but it really dragged out at the start.The last book, "The Stainless Steel Rat Saves the World" was better than the second book and kept a good clip throughout the 2 "alternate history" sections, but dragged out a bit when mrs rat turned up to save his smugness and they went to an undercook future sequence and lame wrap up.
This is a collection of the first three novels of the "Stainless Steel Rat" series.I bought this as 
Slippery Jim is our narrator, and our hero, of sorts.
He is also the Stainless Steel Rat, or at least that is how he describes himself.
Slipping through the technological world and committing many daring acts of thievery and innumerable cons.
Safe and secure in the knowledges that his wits, charm and logic will get him out of danger.
But instead of throwing him in jail, or punishing him they offer him a job.
Come and work for them.
So he does, after all, he was never a bad man, just one who wanted his bit of freedom.http://www.susanhatedliterature.net/2...
Checked it out after hearing of the author's recent passing.The book was what I picture the bulk of 60's action Sci Fi to be like: pulpy, sexist, but full of adventure (and lots of just-in-time coincidences).
This is one of those that I would have liked better had I discovered it as a kid.
But despite the blatant sexism (even though one of the villains is a woman who often outsmarts our hero)I found it an enjoyable action story.
The hero and the plot don't have much subtlety, but they keep the reader engaged.
The author was a SFWA Grandmaster.
This collects the first three Stainless Steel Rat books, featuring Harry Harrison's intergalactic thief Jim DiGriz.
These tales are short and funny and exciting.
The Rat makes for an interesting character: most of the time he is arrogant, but trials and difficulties lead him to drinking and depression that he must outdo before he can save the day.
His relationship with his wife is also disturbing, in a fascinating kind of way.
These are by no means serious meditations on society or humanity or any other theme that is prevalent in science fiction; these are adventure tales, and they are fun to read.
I enjoyed most of the characters, and I sincerely appreciated how resourceful Harrison was in devising ways for Slippery Jim to get out of various situations and outwit all who opposed him.
I would say that more character development in the enemies, and in others such as Inskipp or Angelina would have served the stories well.
The endings of each of the three stories felt very rushed to me, and they all had confusing aspects as well.
However, these were enjoyable reads, recommended to me by a friend, and I'd be happy to read more from this author and, particularly, the character of Slippery Jim.
I read this book 15 years ago remember liking it.
Rereading it now, I do like it.
At no point was I inclined to stop reading this book.
My one complaint was that the plot was often overly convenient, he always just happened to have the perfect device on hand to resolve every problem immediately.
The technology was just too convenient.
In a pinch?
Just use this instant knockout drug you have on hand, even though you didn't anticipate this situation at all.Also, the best of the three books was the first.
The second was just so-so.
I loved it then and it was just as good this time.
I only read novels by Harry Harrison for years, until I read Dune, but that's another story.
Something I've always appreciated about Harrison's writing style is that he keeps his language clean.
Maybe that's because of the era in which he wrote, but I like to think that there are a lot of authors out there that wouldn't have put that content in whatever time or place.
That's a huge reason I can say that I can always recommend Harry Harrison's books to my friends and children.
They're also really good.
I had read one of these three stories a long time ago and had forgotten that, while they are a fast paced adventure story, there really isn't much substance to them.
The third one in particular, The Stainless Steel Rat saves the world, really skips over a lot of things that leave some rather large holes in the story.
It is all convenient "Due to my ingeniuity, I cobbled together some whizz bang device that saved my butt, but I don't need to go into any details about how I did that in this backward time."Anyway, I'm probably showing my age in my lack of appreciation.
I would steer a younger crowd towards these books.
As a kid I was mightily impressed by Harry Harrison's Deathworld trilogy, some of the more extreme scenes having remained vivid through the following decades.
In any case, initial positive exposure to Harrison led me to preferentially pursue his books, a pursuit which led to these first volumes of what has become a whole set of Stainless Steel Rat novels.Well, I read them during a break from school, thought the first was mildly amusing, the second less so, the third positively boring.
Since then I've been cautious in approaching Harrison.
My first sci fi novel. I really enjoyed it. Thank goodness non of the main characters had unpronounceable names, which seems to be the norm in sci fi, and why I have avoided reading this genre for so long.It was written years ago, but felt contemporary and was an easy and enjoyable read. The main character was slightly weak and there was a slight flavour of sexism running through it - but then the novel was written in the 60's I think, so this is not surprising.Really it was an adventure/detective novel set on other worlds.
Revisiting this old classic after it has sat in a box... This collects the first three short Stainless Steel Rat novels. Publication dates between #1 and #2 are 9+ years apart and it shows-- the prose in the first is clunky and downright awful in places, while #2 and #3 have what is good about these books-- smoothly flowing perils of pauline sardonic but charmingly imperfect narrator.Readability is not enough to elevate the content though-- 3 stars for enjoyable for killing time but not if you have anything better to do.
I read these books in the mid-eighties and probably 2 or 3 times since. Harrison has such a great technique for delivering comedy. Slippery Jim is one of my all time favourite literary characters. He has managed to slip past society's techniques for detecting and correcting criminal behaviour in its citizens. He pursues a life of crime with a gusto, more out of boredom than a need for money. His crimes are always hilarious in their execution and the real 'bad guys'always seem to come out worse for wear. I may have to pick this one up again soon.
