https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/29898.The_Wars
My head was spinning with joy and I wanted to laugh and cry at the same time.Come to think of it, as a reader, how do you celebrate finishing a great novel?
The movies were Dead Poet’s Society (1989) and Titanic (1997) which shows somehow that Filipinos, in general, know how to appreciate good works of art.
I wanted to express my appreciation to Timothy Findley (1930-2002) for writing such a beautiful novel.
If this novel, The Wars (1977) is to be my basis, I can say that Findley, a Canadian, is a brilliant writer.
An unknown historian or journalist is trying to piece together his life in World War 1 from the time point of the author’s present in the late 70’s.
Having to kill an injured horse on the transport ship Robert is his introduction to the horrors of war, and it connects directly to his father forcing him as a boy to kill his sister’s rabbits after she dies.
Her journal as a young girl contains a poignant summary judgment of the war from a brother who also was in combat:Someone once said to Clive: do you think we will ever be forgiven for what we have done?
That’s a key theme in this book, what happens to a person with extreme empathy who is trapped in the nightmare of World War I, a period which brought out so much darkness and cruelty in so many, and destroyed so many innocents.There are scenes/moments in this novel that are so incredibly moving, and as I said above the theme hits very close to home.
While I think the structure works well enough for the novel, my personal taste tends towards more intimate connections with characters.
I was very impressed by this war novel – one of the best I have read. The more I progressed in the book, the more enamored I became, and drawn into the different settings and characters. All was wonderfully envisioned as one becomes immersed in the narrative. The ending is (view spoiler)[tragic (hide spoiler)], but after all this is war – a vast barbaric machine.I had never heard of this Canadian author, so thanks go to the GR network!The first twenty to thirty pages are rather intangible, but a
I was very impressed by this war novel – one of the best I have read.
The more I progressed in the book, the more enamored I became, and drawn into the different settings and characters.
All was wonderfully envisioned as one becomes immersed in the narrative.
The ending is (view spoiler)[tragic  (hide spoiler)], but after all this is war – a vast barbaric machine.I had never heard of this Canadian author, so thanks go to the GR network!The first twenty to thirty pages are rather intangible, but after it settles into our main character.
There is a feeling and depth throughout.
Findley really takes it up to the next level; He portrays the hell that is war without making it seem over-the-top, or comical.The story is told through the perspectives of a historian, and a handful of people that knew Ross.
Robert Ross was characterized as the type of man to carry the weight of the world on his shoulders, and in the end, this is what brings him to his breaking point.Not to say that this book was perfect.
I felt at times that the war was just a backdrop to Findley's other themes: dysfunctional families, sexuality, man's relationship with nature, love, mental illness.
It is one of my lost reviews.Fragments.
Michael Ondaatje's The English Patient is certainly the masterpiece of fragments, but The Wars is its stunning precursor.
The Wars stunned me.
Robet Ross's release of the horses is an amazing expression of humanity in the midst of chaos, yet its power is derived from his murder of Pvt. Cassles.
It is not that Robert is some insande beast who loves animals more than men [though if he did, I don't think it would make him anything near insane], it is that animals, coyotes, toads, horses, dogs, birds never hurt him.
However, Findley isn't just addressing war here; he's thinking and feeling deeply about how to live a meaningful life, how to overcome guilt and regret, how to come to terms with failure, why we have to keep on going even when there doesn't seem to be any point in doing so, who we are when there's no one else except us...it goes on and on.
It is as good as we can do in terms of getting into someone else's head and living his bold, tragic, quietly incredible life for a little while.My vote for the best Canadian novel of all time.
Wars by Timothy Findley follows the story of fictional character Robert Ross and his journey as a soldier during the First World War. I thought Robert was a very captivating character because of the experiences he had gone through before the war.
One of the main reason why he decided to enlist in the war was to escape the grief he was feeling for the death of his older sister.
I felt that the book did an excellent job in accurately representing the experiences of a soldier during war.
This is one of the main reasons why I didn’t rate this a five star book.
I remember reading a book by Timothy Findley as a teenager in Toronto.
A few Findleys were found (including the aforementioned Southern Ontario gothic) but not The Wars.
I'm sure there are Findley filled shelves in high schools stretching from Etobicoke to Scarborough but the lone loaner in the "Toronto of the South" was located deep in the stacks of the Brooklyn Public Library and not speedily enough decanted to the holds shelf of my local branch where my wife kindly picked it up for me.
I'm not sure I would've appreciated it nearly as much had I read it in high school.
Findley does a better job of making this phenomenon real than anything else I've read.
When it rains (which is almost constantly from early September through to March, except when it snows) the water rises at you out of the ground.
It rises from your footprints - and an army marching over a field can cause a flood.
Their graves, it seemed just dug themselves and pulled them down.But I needed more than a good description of mud to make this real.
I am almost overwhelmed by my choices of reading material, that I doubt I'll go looking for another.

This, and Sebastian Faulk's "Birdsong" (another 1001 book which I would have reviewed, and given five stars, had I not read it long before I joined goodreads).When you get so much, or even just a second helping, of the same thing your pleasure tends to be less and less.
You'll go, hey, I've seen this before: family, war, a little sex and romance, the present's memory suddenly hurtling towards the past, the beauty, promise and innocence of youth destroyed, the what-could-have-beens.Which is older, this or "Birdsong"?
The sound of it would haunt him to the day he died."Birdsong.
Canadian attitudes towards war are strangely more encapsulating than American attitudes. There seems no definitive pride in victory; only in living.
In 2011, Canadian parents challenged the inclusion of Timothy Findley's award-winning novel The Wars on a high school reading list, describing it as depraved and full of sex.
The novel is about a young Canadian man, Robert Ross, who joins the military to fight in World War One. The depravity, to my mind, is the war itself, in all its mindless horror.
Of course Robert goes off to war an innocent young man; his fellow officers and the soldiers under them are innocent young men too.
3.5 stars.The Wars by Timothy Findley would be a great pick for a book club looking for a WWI book.
Unfortunately, at times and ultimately there were loose ends and unexplained events that begged for clarity.
No matter how many books one reads about a war, there is always a fresh perspective and “new to me” information.
For example, I did not know that Canadian soldiers were trained in England.
There are also young British men who were anti-war.
This is the fourth or fifth fictional WWI work I have read this year.
The living memory of that war is now lost.
Probablement le meilleur roman sur la guerre que j'ai jamais lu! Je suis sans mots.
A very sparse, grim and poetical portrayal of a young Canadian soldier in France and England during World War I and his family back in Canada.
I don't recommend. Worst book ever. I would only try reading it again to see if I like it in twenty years, or to see whether I was biased based on the school setting that I was in.
Instead of the loyal band of brothers-in-arms (who die off one by one in the most tearjerking manner possible, preferably after a good death speech), other soldiers drift in and out of Robert Ross' life, often in only a page or two, without us ever learning much about any of them.
Sex, when it does feature, is uniformly violent - whether with Barbara, or with the prostitute at the brothel (where Robert spies on a soldier involved in some horse-and-rider BDSM with another man), or with that gang rape scene towards the end.
The book is written from the perspective of a historian trying to make sense of a moment of madness in the middle of the First World War. Findley accomplishes this goal through mixed medium narrating, using journal entries, interviews, photographs and the historian's conjecture.
Secondly, Findley beautifully articulates the horror of the war through the chaos of the narrative structure.
The reader is nailed to the centre of the big picture when a transcript ends and Findley points out that "[s]o far, you have read of the deaths of 557,017 people-- one of whom was killed by a streetcar, one of whom died of bronchitis and one of whom died in a barn with her rabbits." None of those three people died in the war.
I didn't come away feeling like I had become acquainted with the main character, Robert Ross, whose brooding nature seemed like a way to escape real character development.
Then Robert Ross went to war and things picked up.
But I wouldn't say these parts were compelling enough to make this worth a read, as the novel dies as soon as it looks like it's gaining life.
Most of what happens comes off as irrelevant padding, and secondary characters do almost nothing to add to the intrigue except to foreshadow the book's disappointing climax.
In a nutshell: who cares about what Robert Ross did or didn't do?
It was supposed to be told from the point of view of a historian, but there was often detail in scenes that the historian couldn't have access to (IE rape scene), Directly followed by a scene that was glossed over that should have been given more time (IE the entire last chapter) The perspective jumped from 1st person to 3rd person to the writer talking directly to the reader, often without any explanation, foreshadowing or need for it.I could only be vaguely interested in Robert and his struggles because of the large (For a 200 page book) cast of characters.
The book is a very clever mix of a researcher trying to piece together the actions and short life of 19-year-old Robert Ross during The Great War, and the immense atrocities of the war as seen through the eyes of Robert Ross himself.Interesting is the plural form of the title: To me it implied both the First World War and the war Robert is fighting within himself...I had rated the book 4 to 4 stars originally but the more I thought about the book and its story while writing my Dutch review for t
The book is a very clever mix of a researcher trying to piece together the actions and short life of
I read this for a student I was tutoring. I found out it was Canadian literature an it's often studied in school. While historical/warfare lit is not my thing, the psychological journey and interrogation of masculinity and the hero was quite nuanced. A lot of different layers and meanings to take from this one. Surprisingly enjoyed it.
Did not understand it at all when I read it for the first time. This is definitely one of those novels that you have to reread multiple times (which I did). Still don't understand it. There are some very explicit scenes in this novel. Would not recommend that you read those passages aloud to company as a way to pass the time.
love the commentary on animals within this book, so relatable. why do humans value themselves above any other life form? made me question my morals, overall becoming a bit disgusted with humanity.
Έτσι μας δείχνει την εμπειρία του πολέμου, τόσο στα πεδία των μαχών, με τους στρατιώτες που πολεμάνε και πολλοί από αυτούς αντιμετωπίζουν τις συνέπειες, όσο και στα μετόπισθεν όπου και εκεί κανείς δεν μπορούσε να μείνει ανεπηρέαστος από αυτή την βιαιότητα, ειδικά οι συγγενείς των στρατιωτών.Με άλλα λόγια ένα βιβλίο που μπορεί να μη μου άρεσε τόσο όσο κάποια από τα κλασικά βιβλία για αυτό το θέμα, σίγουρα, όμως, είναι ένα ουσιαστικό έργο, από έναν συγγραφέα που έδειξε την απαραίτητη ευαισθησία στη δική του απεικόνιση της κατάστασης που επικρατούσε στον πρώτο Παγκόσμιο Πόλεμο.
I took me forever to get around to reading this book and I don't really know why since the book is so short.
Personally, I found it to be the type of book that needs to be read several times so that its intricacy can be truly comprehended.
The words were never overly descriptive and were jarring when they needed to be but the book was consistent in making the events taking place feel real.
There were certain parts of the book that were a bit hard to get through, but I found Robert to be a very interesting character so these parts did not faze me as much.
This was a good book, but not a great book for me.
It was choppy and disjointed and really lost me at times.
When the story was actually in the war zone, it was outstanding.
This book is about 19 year old Robert Ross, a sensitive soul, whether it be to his treasured sister, to his fellow soldiers or to the horses he valued.
The author does a fine job of showing the ravages of war, especially in the last 40 pages or so.
I just wished the whole book had flowed as the last chapter did.
Guy Vanderhaeghe provided the introduction for The Wars and identifed The Wars as "the finest historical novel ever written by a Canadian".
I cannot attest to the the finest historical novel but it is one of the best WWI novels I have read and I know it is on par with "Three Day Road" which is one of the best books informing me of what the war was like in the trenches.
Timothy Findlay is such an amazing storyteller and I am so glad I picked up this "older" novel to read.
You only wish the military also know him at the end of the book.
