https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6856.Manhunt
I went into this knowing it was an older book of hers. I like her older books for a quick and funny read once in awhile. This one was light, funny, romantic and whimsical. Just what I was in the mood for.
Alexandra Scott had swapped her fancy Princeton condo and her life as a corporate high flier for a cabin in the Alaskan wilderness and a run-down hardware store.
Michael Casey had already encountered the ditsy female when he tried to rescue Bruno from drowning off the Juneau docks, so he wasn’t pleased to see Alex moving in to the cabin down the hill.
This one is a bit slower moving than the Stephanie Plum books, and the premise is really too silly to entertain, but the result is amusing enough to persist to the HEA.
A sweet quick read about a city girl who tries to put down roots in Alaska. Anything can happen.....
But anything approaching frisky had all the smolder of a very wet, very dead dog, ended abruptly (forget 'fade to black'; the shutters were slammed shut so fast you had to kiss your fingers goodbye), and referred to with the oh-so-realistic trumpet of "That was glorious!" Retch.Should you also possess the mile-wide masochistic streak I apparently do, as I read through to the end, have at it.
But keep sharp implements out of reach, because eyes are handy for activities other than reading and you might forget that halfway through this delightful novel.
Funny, dippy little love story.....not exactly serious literature, but it was entertaining
Look, usually these Janet Evanovich romance novels make me super ragey and I end up throwing them across the room because they're squicky and misogynistic.
In contrast, this one was totally cheesy and totally predictable but actually not that terrible in comparison??Essentially, a 29 year old woman is sick of her corporate life, and somehow ends up deciding to do a swap with some old guy she barely knows.
Cute Guy turns out to be her next door neighbour, and has a house with all mod cons, which is super convenient because the cabin she bought turns out to have no electricity or running water, it's infested with mice, and she manages to burn down the outhouse.
This is a quick, quirky read that will keep you laughing as you turn the pages. The main character knows what she wants and goes after it, even into the wilds of Alaska.
4.5 stars - great! I really enjoy this book. Of all of Janet Evanovich's early romantic comedies, this one is probably my favorite. Why, you ask? It's because it's set in Alaska. I really love stories set in Alaska. Alaska is a place I've visited once (twice if you count the layover I had at the airport in Anchorage, but that visit doesn't really count) and dream of living in one day. I have just got to experience one of their long and cold winters. :-)I also enjoy this book because Alexandra '
Of all of Janet Evanovich's early romantic comedies, this one is probably my favorite.
When I think of Janet Evanovich's early romantic comedies, invariably this is the book that comes to mind.
And I do love it, but I never feel like I can wax on and on about it in the same way I can about Jennifer Crusie's early romantic comedies.
It will probably always be my go-to Janet Evanovich book, but it will never be the first book I think of when I think of romantic comedies, or even when I think of stories set in Alaska.
Another delightful read by one of my favorite authors. It you are looking for a fun, uplifting, romance, Janet Evanovich is a great source of novels for you!
This was such a cute story! Makes me want to visit Alaska.
I read this book for a reading challenge. It was a quick read filled with insta-love and ridiculous choices being made. lol It was humorous at times and entertaining. For anyone interested in making a go at living in Alaska this would be a good read for you.
Very typical brain-check-out book. Super cheesy. Fast read. Exactly what I expected. The sex is overly skipped over tho, head's up. Like every time they did the do I had to reread the paragraph like "Wait what?" Other than that, yeah, it's Janet Evanovich.
This book was ok. A lot of fluff, not much substance.
It's a cute and funny book but I think it would have been a better book if it was longer. The two main characters were put into some pretty funny situations but I would have enjoyed it more if there was more detail behind them.
That crazy broad just deep-sixed her dog!" Not only did he end up with a broken nose trying to save said dog but then got stuck with Alex, who was on the hunt for a husband, living on his mountain in a cabin that was far from livable.Alex really was so unprepared for life in Alaska and her new home impossibly unlivable but damn if that girl didn't have guts and determination to make it work.
Just jump into an entirely new life and adventure.
I just loved Casey and how exasperated he was over Alex.
Still love the Stephanie Plum series better, but this was a quick, cute and fun read. Sometimes i sure wish i had the courage that Alex had to get up and start a new life.
OK, I'm not much of a romance novel fan, but I have to read the ones by Janet Evanovich just because I read ANYTHING by Janet Evanovich, one of my favorite authors.
This book has the same plot that every romance novel seems to have: incredible attraction between two hot and sexy protagonists, the mutual mind-reading and consequent misunderstandings, the lack of communication, and the eventual happily ever after ending.
Oh well, she outgrew these early novels, thank goodness, but you might still enjoy reading them when you're sick in bed and your exhausted brain just can't handle any real thinking.
Picked this up off a hotel book swap shelf bc it was the only one in English. So terrible! I wasn't going to add it to my Goodreads but I thought it was slightly amusing that I read it at all.
Junk food in book form. So cliched and stilted in some instances that it made me laugh out loud- although I'm sure the humor wasn't intented.
listened toRe-read September 2015
cute.a read that didn't need much thought.
VERY ENTERTAINING BOOK LOL SEVERAL TIMES
This is a cute story about Alex who leaver her upscale job and condo and trades it for a cabin and a bait store in Alaska.
When she meets her neighbor Casey.
Casey does everything he can think of to get her to go back to "where she belongs." Alex digs in and tries to stay but when her outhouse goes up in smoke, it all gets a little overwhelming for her.
Then she meets Bubba who teaches her about dogs, dogsleds, and mushing and she grows to love Alaska all over again.
Only Casey gets extremely jealous and a fist fight ensues.
Evanovich/manhuntI thoroughly enjoyed the story of Casey and Alex . Alex trading in big city life for frontier life in alaska, and through mishaps through trial and error learning to live with the basic needs. And along the way driving a pilot crazy with forever rescuing her from one mishaps and another. Evanovich does not disappoint her readers, she has a flair for different type of story writing, you can never go wrong in reading her books, you will find yourself enjoying the story.
Alexandra Scott decides to trade in her lifestyle as a busy New Jersey executive for owning a hardware store in Alaska. Her former life did not allow her time to find a husband and start a family, so she thought her life in Alaska would allow her to do that. She finds that her new home is a cabin on a mountain far from everything with no electricity, running water or other comforts. But there is one benefit - a very sexy neighbor.
I need to defend picking this one up: It's set in Alaska and I liked Stephanie Plum (well, the first 13 or so before she started running in circles). But wow. I realize this was an early book, but it was painfully bad.
Loved it. Alexandra goes to Alaska looking to snag a husband. After meeting up with Michael Casey , things get a little wacky. Alex is a city girl from New Jersey, who has never had to rough it out ? Will she adapt to rugged Alaska, and find what she's looking for?
Quick Lighthearted ReadI enjoyed this book. Not much of a plot but a whimsical lighthearted read. I especially enjoyed the back and forth banter of the two main characters.
A funny story of a woman determined to find a husband in Alaska and the hilarious situations that ensue in her quest.
Super easy read-written just like a chick flick, but it would be a perfect book to read on the beach and just what I needed this summer.
