https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/54258.The_Radetzky_March
“That was how things were back then. Anything that grew took its time growing, and anything that perished took a long time to be forgotten. But everything that had once existed left its traces, and people lived on memories just as they now live on the ability to forget quickly and emphatically.”  [image error]There are eras when time seems to stand still and the period before the beginning of World War I was one of those times for the Austro-Hungarian empire. The empire was in decline, but not y
[image error] This is a book about three generations of Trottas beginning with the Battle of Solferino.
His son is not a military man, but does end up in a role of District Captain due to his position of a Baron, a designation that had been consigned upon the first Trotta by the Kaiser.
The last being with Frau Von Taussig who is married to a noble, but the mistress of a wealthy friend of Trotta and yet she has a hunger for young lieutenants.
A friend and higher ranking officer asks him to sign for his debts, and Trotta with barely a consideration signs away his life.
Ο γιος και ο εγγονός του ήρωα αποκτούν αυτή τη βαριά τιμητική κληρονομιά και συνεχίζουν την παρακμιακή πορεία της ζωής τους παράλληλα με τον ξεπεσμό της αυτοκρατορίας.Ο Καρλ Γιόζεφ (εγγονός) σε αντίθεση με παππού και πατέρα δεν ήθελε να είναι Αυστριακός στρατιωτικός, υπηρέτης και υπάλληλος της αυτοκρατορίας των Αψβούργων.
Είναι αναγκασμένοι όμως, ο ένας, μέσα απο τις προσωπικές αποτυχίες του αλλού, να αποδεχτούν με σκληρές συνέπειες, τις αλλαγές του κόσμου και των αξιών που πίστεψαν και τίμησαν, μέχρι την τελική κατάρρευση.
Ορόσημο αποτελεί η έναρξη του Ά Παγκοσμίου Πολέμου,όμως η αποδόμηση των φρονημάτων της ζωής τους και η κατάρρευση των Αψβούργων αποτυπώνονται αριστουργηματικά απο τον συγγραφέα μέχρι την τελευταία σελίδα.
And you can hear foot soldiers too, standing to attention, clipping their heels, marching forward, swords jangling, sabres rattling, marching, marching, marching.But for all that it is full of of the crashing and booming, the clanging and banging, the ringing and jingling of the battle field, it is uplifting music too.
As I read Joseph Roth's book, I reacted as I react to the Strauss music, uplifted by the spirit of it but downcast by the waste of lives in the service of a monstrous military machine.
The Sense of an Ending begins with a reference to that same Serbian gunman, and I kept thinking that Barnes' title encapsulates Roth's book perfectly; there is the sense of an ending right from the beginning.
Like its Japanese counterparts this novel explores a world in which sweeping transitions take place and values change.
In early twentieth century Japan underwent major changes during the Meiji era, and Japanese authors wrote about young men with one foot in the old system and the other foot in the new one.
”By this time, the high-placed gentlemen in Vienna and St Petersburg were already starting to prepare for the Great War.” There are whispers that the monarchy is doomed.Back at the Trotta estate, old Herr Franz von Trotta is perplexed and annoyed that his world is also changing.
The writing is excellent and Joseph Roth bares the souls of his protagonists, namely the district captain Herr von Trotta and his son, Carl Joseph.
Likewise, district captain Franz von Trotta chooses the career for his own son; therefore young Carl Joseph attends military school and is awarded with a lieutenant’s commission, despite the fact he ‘distinguished’ himself as perhaps mediocre at best.
When the second Trotta visits his son at the border, he realizes the empire is diminishing, "Now returning home alone, from a lonesome son and from this borderland, where the collapse of the world could already be seen as one sees a thunderstorm on the edge of the city, whose streets lie still unaware and blissful under a blue sky." Hose posted on the border, wait for a battle that never comes.
They are all just waiting for the end to come, which of course it eventually does with an assassination.This is a wonderful rendering of a sociological novel.
These are men who have a very small imagination, though as the novel goes on one see them change in slow ways, displaying more feelings, but never acting without thinking something through over and over again.
Our story largely centers around young Carl Joseph von Trotta of the third generation and his father, the District Captain of W.
That is, first the story of Joseph Trotta, the peasant from Sipolje, who, on saving the life of the Austrian Emperor Franz Joseph I at the Battle of Solferino is raised to the rank of captain and ennobled, and his father.
When Carl Joseph writes his father to announce the news that he will leave the army, his father's world, much like the son's, comes tumbling down.
Indeed, the District Captain simply looks up one day and notices that everything has changed--and he never saw it coming.
DNF-- subject matter is slow and boring to me. It is regarded as a modern classic but this is a book that I would slog through and would take away from other books on my tbr. I hope the others participating in the buddy read I was in enjoy it better than I did.
It was about to end'Joseph Roth dazzles with irony and pathos looking at the dying Austro-Hungarian Empire through the eyes of three generations of the Trotta family, a once proud dynasty devoted to King and Country that had total faith in military life, which slowly starts to disintegrate as times change heading towards the Great War. This had both elements of a sweeping grand epic albeit on a smaller scale that galloped along in tune with it's characters, and a sad intimate account of how living in the shadows of past close family can have an effect of trying to leave an important legacy of ones own.The Radetzky March (Johann Strauss), is used as the dedicated piece of music for the war-horse of the Empire, and is seen as a symbol of greatness within the regiments.
It says:The Radetzky March, Joseph Roth's classic saga of the privileged von Trotta family, encompasses the entire social fabric of the Austro-Hungarian Empire just before World War I.
The Emperor's gift of a title to his Slovenian savior sets in motion a long, slow decline and fall, paralleling the Empire's own fate.The Second Baron, excited by Papa's rep as a war hero and having no other information about the subject than other peoples' gossip, wants to be a cavalry officer like his papa.
Maybe that is why he writes in such rosy tones about the otherwise soulless Silesian border towns that loom so large in his work.The unnamed burg in which Carl Joseph, the youngest von Trotta, is stationed in The Radetzky March is a perfect example, but variants on the theme recur in many of his books (at least according to summaries and synopses – I haven't actually read any others).
...So..I mean...I'm as surprised as you are.My particular edition of this book, a 1974-yellowed Penguin Modern Classics edition with pages falling out, boasts what is perhaps the most boring back summary ever written:Grandfather, son and grandson are equally dependent on the [Austro-Hungarian] empire, it begins, the first for his ennoblement; the second for the civil virtues that make him a meticulous servant of admini...oh wait....did everyone STOP READING??!
What is magic to one character is hell to another, and in that oh so stereotypically Austrian way, they can never explain what they really mean.But between the lines, everything bleeds.
These people are all witnessing the end of their world, and it is rotting away slowly and painfully, but there are no obvious predators that they can fight off to save it.The book is about the end of a way of life, but it is also about the end of a family and the uneasy love of a father and son, in fact of several generations of fathers and sons, who do not truly understand one another.
He writes in beautiful, poetic prose, creating scenes of fiery autumnal colors and verdant springtide hues, all in the purpose of depicting the mournful and empty final years of the Austro-Hungarian empire, joining the ranks of Musil and Broch in capturing the collision of a conservative and tradition-rich monarchy with an identity- and individual-asserting modernity that refused to abide by the rituals and routine of an unrepresentative and fossilized institution.Roth's Franz Joseph I—whose life was saved in 1859 by the aforementioned Hero, father and grandfather to the von Trottas who open this review—is a frail, elderly, and dignified man with an immense personal authority and aura, who commands a vast conglomeration of ethnicities and religious beliefs that has no legitimate reason for existence outside of the simple fact that God has so willed this eclectic state of affairs.
Moral lassitude prevails, as the hierarchical bonds that held society in place begin to shake loose and are broken in the war that we know as World War I.Now for my notes of what Hofmann has to say:The Radetzky March is strictly patrilineal, begins and ends with scenes of battle - Solferino, where the family's rise in status began, and KrasneBusk in Eastern Galicia.
By 'poems' Brodsky means imagery whose sharp cut and compression, whose organic and abrupt strangeness ideally fits the swiftness of Roth's narration:The officers went about like incomprehensible worshippers of some remote and pitiless deity, but also like its gaudily clad and splendidly adorned sacrificial animals.Further riders vaulted across a line of twenty beer kegs placed bottom to bottom.
It rose up, word for word, each word a banner..The huge golden sun of the Hapsburgs was setting for him, shattered on the ultimate bottom of the universe, splintering into several tiny solar balls that had to shine as independent stars on independent nations.Being so swift and focused means that Roth could produce a three-generation family novel that clocks in at only 331 pages.
The significant exception is the generous, sensible, hedonistic (I use these words carefully) nobleman Chojnicki, who, in more than one sense sees the gathering storm and its consequences.
The Radestzky March focusses on the military pageantry of the last days of Austria-Hungary, but it contains, like precious stones, in the obscure yearnings of Carl Joseph, whose life is so disastrously misdirected, flashes of lives not woven of pomp and parade, about which Roth is almost romantically solicitous of sympathy, the lives of peasants and workers, culturally diverse, oppressed, mysterious to officialdom.
You might argue that Thomas Mann touched on this somewhat in his great novel The Magic Mountain, but Hans Castorp doesn’t confront the world, and by extension his own lack of ability, but rather he avoids it, he hides from it in a Swiss sanatorium, and in an illusion of ill-health.Joseph Roth’s masterpiece, The Radetzky March, deals with three generations of the ordinary, but suddenly favoured, Trotta family.
Çok iyi bir roman, kurgusu basit, dili sade, okunması çok rahat tıpkı beğendiğim diğer romanlar gibi, ama bir farklılık var bu kitapta, çok içten ve inandırıcı, abartısız.
Joseph Roth daha önce okuduğum “ İmparator Mezarlığı” kitabından çok daha etkileyici ve güzel bir dil kullanmış.
Kitap sizi olayların yaşandığı o zamanlara, o insanların yanına götürüyor ve kitabı okurken görünmez bir gölge gibi izliyorsunuz herşeyi.
Stefan Zweig’ın neden yazara çok yakınlık gösterdiğini ve onu yazma konusunda yüreklendirdiğini, desteklediğini bu romanı okuyunca daha iyi anladım (bkz.
Aslında okuduğum kitaptan alıntı yapmayı yorumlarımda genelde kullanmam, ancak bu cümle yazarın uslubu hatta kitap hakkında iyi bir fikir veriyor.
Re-visit via radio:BBC BLURB:  Dramatised by Gregory EvansA dramatisation of Joseph Roth's most celebrated novel.Piano and Trumpet played by Peter RingroseDirected by Marc Beeby***************************Literary critic Harold Blom described Joseph Roth's The Radetzky March as "One of the most readable, poignant and superb novels in twentieth century German".This is the story of the Trottas, a family of Slovenian peasants ennobled when Lieutenant Joseph Trotta saves Emperor Franz Joseph's life at the Battle of Solferino in 1859.
I was reading The Habsburgs: Embodying Empire at the same time as The Radetzky March, and its author cites a story in which Roth's friends, desperately worried about his alcohol intake and knowing how he revered the Austrian emperors, obtained an audience for him with Otto, son of Karl (the last Emperor of Austria).
The novel's only females are the married Frauen Carl Joseph has affairs with, and the District Commissioner's housekeeper, whom he can't stand.Roth's style is unobtrusive but can also be poignant:In those days before the Great War when the events narrated in this book took place, it had not yet become a matter of indifference whether a man lived or died.
Barracks, guns, uniforms, wars, duels of honour, brothels, male on male love- ins (true friendship, people, only that!), absence of any female characters (unless they are the wives of Colonels looking for a little diversion during the long afternoons whilst their husbands are practicing drills), and army life exposes, coupled with the main protag’s disillusionment with the ‘war establishment’ makes this the perfect , and topical Christmas gift for a loved man in your life.
Doesn’t even have to be a manly man, just as long as hes got his meat and veg he’ll do – any man.
Joseph Roth is not as well-known as his Mitteleuropa contemporaries Franz Kafka, Thomas Mann, Stefan Zweig or Robert Musil, but his gem, The Radetzky March, is a true masterpiece.The novel is a beautiful elegy to the fall of the Austro-Hungarian Empire.
He is the kind of writer you can take the time to enjoy every sentence.Roth, a Ukrainian Jew born near Lvov, grieved the loss of the Austro-Hungarian Empire.
The Austro-Hungarian Empire had many flaws but it helped to bring Europe 100 years of relative peace following the Napoleonic Wars.
Sim...A Marcha de Radetzky figura entre os melhores romances históricos europeus de século XX.
A marcha arquétipa de Strauss repete-se na narrativa como leitmotiv, simbolizando tradição, ordem e enraizamento - qualidades em vias de serem perdidas, à medida que o Império começa a desmoronar-se.
Tanto ele como as gerações que se lhe seguem não são capazes de justificar as expectativas criadas por este acontecimento lendário.
Este romance explora comoventemente as complexidades de relações familiares e entre amigos, traduzindo sentimentos de nostalgia por uma época perdida numa narrativa histórica, que não é de todo sentimental.
Ένα σπουδαίο κλασικό μυθιστόρημα. Μου θύμισε αρκετά Turgenev "Πατέρες και γιοι" και λίγο τους "Μπούντενμπροκ" του Mann. Αρχίζω και εκτιμώ όλο και περισσότερο την γερμανική λογοτεχνία, μετά τους Mann, Hesse, Bernhard. Μια φαινομενικά απλή γραφή, μου δημιούργησε μια ωραία κατατοπιστική εικόνα της εποχής από τα τέλη του 19ου αιώνα έως την έναρξη του μεγάλου πολέμου, εντός της αυτοκρατορίας της Αυστροουγγαρίας. Δυσκολεύτηκα στο να αποφασίσω την βαθμολογία, αλλά νομίζω το αξίζει.
There are many wonderful things happening in this book, the father's ghostly physical and psychic resemblances to the Kaiser that develop over the course of the story, the strange deaths that plague the grandson, Carl Joseph, his total feeling of not belonging where fate had cast him, his search for freedom and an impossible happiness in vague passions and vices, the scenes lingering on food and clothing, carefully recreating the living character of a people lost to time.
Öncelikle, Radetzky Marşı!https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_uNiu...Johann Strauss tarafından 1848 yılında, Avusturyalı General Kont Radetzky von Radetz onuruna bestelenmiş.
Kendisi, 1813 Leipzig Meydan muharebesinde Napolyon’a karşı kazanılan zaferde önemli rol oynamış.
Radetzky Marşı, daha sonraları Avusturya-Macaristan İmparatorluğunun simgesel marşlarından biri olmuş.Kitaba dönersek, Solferino Kahramanı Trotta von Sipolje, Bölge valisi olan bürokrat oğlu ve torun Trotta’nın güzel ve hüzünlü hikayesini okuruz.
Çöküşün nedenlerini sistematik ve ayrıntılı bir şekilde açıklamaya girişmez kitap.
Öyle ki Avusturya-Macaristan İmparatorluğunun son günleri kitabın her yerine siner.
Kitabı bitirdikten sonra bu marşı tekrar dinleyiniz.
Artık coşkulu bir zafer marşı değildir.
Tarihin sayfalarına karışmış büyük bir imparatorluğun alkışlarla uğurlanışı.Aylak Adam Yayınları'nın okuduğum ikinci kitabı.
“Noi tutti non esistiamo più!”All’interno dell’interessante prefazione all’edizione italiana del rom
meine lieben Freunde! The Radetzky March  by Joseph Roth [1894-1939] (translated from German by Joachim Neugroschel [1938-2011]) has been an amazing journey! This is a well-written and an interesting novel about the Trotta family and also chronicles the decline of the Austrian-Hungarian Empire. The novel traces the history of the Trotta family across three generations.Joseph Roth brings the characters to life and makes the whole saga, exciting and interesting. There is a lot to learn and know ab
This is a well-written and an interesting novel about the Trotta family and also chronicles the decline of the Austrian-Hungarian Empire.
The novel traces the history of the Trotta family across three generations.Joseph Roth brings the characters to life and makes the whole saga, exciting and interesting.
There is a lot to learn and know about history, the life and living circumstances in those days and how the thinking and understanding have changed over the generations.
This is a book for sure to be read - and, while going through this book, remember to "experience" the writing of Joseph Roth.
Read it to experience it.
The story concerns three generations of military men rebelling against a mediocre fate, beginning with heroism at the Battle of Solferino and culminating in the final days of the great Hapsburg Empire.
The novel is about the relationship of these military men to their emperor.
Ought I be holding a plow and not a sword?" The music of the Radetzky March plays on - a tune to which three generations of military men marched in service to one of the world's great emperors.
Who marches to that tune now in service to the long departed emperor?
