https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1297201.Exploration_Fawcett
I really liked 'The Lost City of Z' written by David Grann and I wanted to learn more so I picked up this book that has been put together by Fawcett's youngest son Brian from his notes and letters.Fawcett gives an extremely detailed description of his explorations in the Amazon.
So it definitely added to my knowledge.Brian describes his father as a much nicer man than David Grann did.
Furthermore, he believed this civilization consisted of an ancient race of white-skinned, blue-eyed Indians.This idea, of course, had much in common with late Victorian and Edwardian sensational literature, such as Arthur Conan Doyle's The Lost World.
In short, the man was a complete nutter.Still, his repeated expeditions to Brazil in search of this lost civilization gained a public following, and he became a poster child for the fringe elements.
Meantime, Fawcett's status as a cult figure grew, and up until this very day his lost civilization theories are enthusiastically debated on the web.
oopsie -- finished this one about a week ago & forgot to make a note of it. More soon.
The details of the journey and exploration was interesting, but what I was most drawn to was the descriptions Fawcett provides of the blatant human rights violations of those wild places.
Fawcett himself always treated the native tribes-people he encountered with kindness and respect and earned many friends in his travels.
However, the barbaric treatment other explorers and industry titans imposed on not only the native tribes but also the urban dwelling peoples of Brazil is astonishing.
It is baffling to me that this kind of disrespect for life, civil rights, and culture took place less than 100 years ago.
Fawcett wrote this account of his Amazonian adventures for his son before embarking on a doomed expedition to discover a fabled city of gold.
The PBS documentary "Lost in the Amazon" presents a compelling reconstruction of the what might have happened: http://www.pbs.org/wnet/secrets/lost-...I read this book several times while I was growing up in Colombia, and I later had the good fortune to experience something of the wonder of the jungle after signing on with a venture to grow shrimp in brackish ponds downriver from Guapi on the Pacific Coast.
I have my own stories to tell from that time and from similar cirmunstnces, but none compare with the tales Fawcette tells.
« The dawn of knowledge was only just breaking after the dark night of the Middle Ages ; the world in its entirety was yet a mystery, and each venture to probe it disclosed new wonders.
They stood like a lost world, forested to their tops, and the imagination could picture the last vestiges there of an age long vanished.
One sees galaxies which in the denser air at sea level are invisible to the naked eye ; and, if the sky is clear, no night is really dark, so great is their illumination.
Autobiograhy of the British explorer who disappeared while searching for a lost city in South America. Packed with nuggets of interest to the Fortean- strange creatures, over sized snakes, mysterious tribes and ruins and so on. It's obviously dated and some of his attitudes to certain tribes are, ahem, of their time, though he's a complex character in that while he may display what amounts to racism to a degree in his choice of language, compared to many of this contemporaries who thought nothing of massacring or enslaving the indigenous population, which filled him with revulsion is relatively enlightened.
I enjoyed most of this book.
Some of the details of each expedition are repetitive but found the descriptions of the people, their homes and their lives very interesting.
On one of his returns to his home in England he met Sir Arthur Conan Doyle and recounted some of his adventures and observations to him.
Colonel Fawcett believed many of his stories formed the basis for The Lost World.
Hopefully, the fate of the colonel, his son and their friend who were never heard from after leaving for the last expedition, will be discovered some day.
The expeditions of the explorer who inspired The Lost World, Indiana Jones and countless other people and stories!
Some books require slow reading.
Time to reflect along the way, to process, visualize and imagine what might have been a nearly impossible undertaking.
The book was good, the movie not so much.Through his own words and compiled by his son in the early fifties, we read his notes and journal entries which bring to life years of extraordinary adventure.
Fawcett's disappearance remains a mystery despite years of research along the Amazonian trails he had clearly marked.
The aura of the unsolved mystery remains.
“o que pode ser mais empolgante que a penetração nos segredos do passado e a luz que se projecta sobre a história da própria civilização?”“Florestas em que a vida animal podia ser ouvida mas não vista”
Great story, concise yet interesting storytelling. Second-to-last chapter was a dated and dubious ethnology and history. The rest was an exploration tale that's written in an understated way but is more thrilling (and dangerous) than is to be imagined. Really a nifty book.
This was the most fascinating exploration account I've ever read. One travels to the wild jungles of Brazil and goes day by day with Percy Fawcett and his crews.
Great read. Very exciting story that makes you want to know... what really happened? The book provides some sort of an answer, but there are still quite a lot of loose ends.

The part I find most impressive (and what I can rarely find in the biography or autobiography realm) is his stark observation.
He doesn’t try to give the answer to the question.
He doesn’t try to frame what he sees in a nice package… he just presents his own opinions as his own opinions and the world as he finds it.
The book also ends showing the various ‘sightings’ and a few theories that came about after the disappearance.
The memoirs were well written, and show that there was a time when people viewed the world as full of mystery and adventure.For a full review visit http://ireadalotofbooks.com/explorati...
I have read this book I think three times, maybe four, but this is my first time I read it in English, and twenty years after the last reading.
What surprised me this time was that I didn't notice before that some Fawcett's thoughts appear racist.
Maybe I just thought back then that those were such times and such expressions were normal.
Now I would rather say, yes, those were normal expressions for an average Englishman of that time, but I somehow expected he would have been above those, because he lived and shared his bread with so many indigenous people in that obscure part of the world.
This is the book and the life that provided the inspiration for Lost City of Z -- it's a great read in the adventure parts, though it bogs down a bit in the last quarter when Fawcett is discussing the history of the native people of Brazil. Jack's letters, at the end, are particularly poignant, as is Brian's discussion of the failed searches for his father and brother.Honestly, if I were you, I would go read Lost City of Z. If you LOVED that book, like I did, then read this. But don't read this first.
From Lost City of Z. This was the book put together by Fawcette's son, Brian, from his notes and letters. If I'm still interested in this stuff after this book, might have to try out The Ecology of Power too or The Search for El Dorado.
The author, son of the adventurer Col. Fawcett, does an excellent job of deciphering his father's notes. The true adventure of Col. Fawcett is fascinating, yet not Indiana Jones. The description of characters and places makes you feel like you're there traveling in the dugout on the river, or in the wild west, lawless towns. I learned something on every page. Recommended for the adventurous sole, whether armchair or out there!
This was an excellent book and an amazing first-person account of South America in the early 1920's where the rubber boom mixed with post-imperialism and touched on the mysteries of the ancient cultures. While I am hesitant to believe everything word for word, such as the size of the anacondas he witnessed, I have no doubt that most of it is quite correct. It's a great adventure tale made all the better because it's based on a real life Indiana Jones (... with a British accent).
Reading this book as a child inspired me to visit Peru and Bolivia, and re-reading the book brought back some amazing memories and comparisons of the places. It's a great book, taking into account the age it was written in, but Fawcett's enthusiasm for the Amazon and South America shines through the intervening century.
Pretty well written, not too dated sounding. Fawcett was pretty enlightened for his time, although he couldn't shake all vestiges of his upbringing. I liked the whole book except the two chapters near the end on the formation of South America... that part I was pretty sure would have been discredited by science by now. But the adventure/exploration parts of the book were top rate.
P.H. Fawcett was one of the great explorers of the modern age. His work in South America wrote the book on borders and boundaries. He discovered new species of animals, made first contact with native Brazilian tribes, and finally disappeared chasing a lost city. This is history, not myth or legend, and it the equal of any fiction book.
Reads like a pure adventure story, but I'm suspicious of Brian Fawcett's revisionist hand at work here. So much mystery surrounding the Fawcett party... In any case, a fascinating read, a thought-provoking anthropological case study, and a new crackpot adventurer for my shelf of bizarre characters in history. Fawcett's flaws make him all the more intriguing.
En ocasiones se hace algo tedioso, pero me ha resultado una lectura interesante e inspiradora. Las descripciones de alguien que se enfrenta a lo desconocido por primera vez con la ilusión de un auténtico aventurero, ver la Suramérica de la época a través de los ojos de Fawcett con sus riquezas y sus injusticias, su relación con la vieja Europa... una lectura a recordar.
Can't believe I never read this before. And, I thought the Lost City of Z was a good read! The story is even better when it's from the explorer's own pen. Not only was Fawcett an epic explorer but a great writer as well. Too bad the mystery of his disappearance has never been solved.
This is a very detailed - down to the last bug bite - account of exploration in the Amazon by Fawcett and unless you are seriously into that sort of thing I would opt for the other book on the subject - The Lost City of Z - which I think is much more readable.
Very interesting add-on if you liked The Lost City of Z. Fawcett is very descriptive of his adventure and the imagery he creates certainly makes for a fast read. However, be prepared for some sections that somewhat bore and drag on a bit.
A great adventure tale for most of the book, with a bit of amateur anthropology/archaeology/mysticism tossed in at the end. Some of the most interesting stuff comes from the son who edited together the book and leaves notes throughout. Worth a read
