https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/113138.The_Winner
The Winner – not!I had seen the name many times, but had never read anything by David Baldacci until last week.
The two main characters, LuAnn Tyler, and Jackson, are completely implausible, and at times self-contradictory.
Jackson was supposed to be ‘terrifying’, we were told so repeatedly, but he was laughable at best.
Baldacci also repeatedly tells us how beautiful and sexy LuAnn Tyler is.
Sentence structure at times is abominable.
More than once, I had to stop and check that I had read a sentence correctly, and had not drifted off and slipped into autopilot.
It will be a long time before I open another Baldacci novel.
I started reading The Winner based on a recommendation from my eye doctor, of all people.
I'm even more glad I gave up on the hardcover library book and, instead, got the Kindle version (it's much lighter!).The Winner is a surprisingly interesting and good book.
Just when you think you've got something figured out, it takes another direction and you're left scratching your head.My only real problem with the book is that Mr. Baldacci writes some of the longest paragraphs I've ever seen...some nearly a page long.
David Baldacci is a gifted author and I intend to enjoy at least some of his other books.
I bought this book it was so good. A twist on the typical rags to riches tale. Fast paced thriller. It begs the question: what would you do to win the lottery? How would you spend those winnings?
Being highly recommended to me I was anxious to absorb myself reading a good book.
Unfortunately, this wasn't one of them.
Primarily, I was disappointed with descriptive nudity, a masturbation scene and a sex scene, all of which could have been removed and the book as a whole would have been better.
Nonetheless, the premise held the possibility of a good story but it was just too predictable.
There was only one surprise in the book and the beginning drug on forever.
Not very gripping, quite disappointing, nothing new and refreshing.
I'm going to do my best to make the rest of this as spoiler free as I can, but the fact remains that it's been 14 years since the publication of this book, so I'm not promising anything.The upside for me is that, despite several moments of having to put the book down in order to roll my eyes at the cornball nature of a sentence, I did continue to pick it back up.
The book The Winner by David Baldacci is 628 pages, published in 1997 by Columbus Rose, Ltd. The genre is a mix of mystery, realistic fiction, and thriller. It follows the story of LuAnn Tyler, a dirt poor twenty year-old with a infant child who is offered a chance to win the lottery. Driven away from her home town by her drug dealing boyfriend, she wins the lottery and spends 10 years living abroad. Coming back to the US, she faces the killer known as Jackson who set up the lottery scheme. She
It follows the story of LuAnn Tyler, a dirt poor twenty year-old with a infant child who is offered a chance to win the lottery.
She must work to protect her friend Charlie, her boyfriend Matt Riggs, and her daughter Lisa.
Charlie's care for LuAnn caused him to leave Jackson to protect her and Lisa.
He'd lived a simple life for 5 years but risked everything for LuAnn. He was so devoted he took two bullets, a knife, and killed Jackson for her.
LuAnn lied to Lisa for 10 years about her life so that she wouldn't know about the lottery.
My main problem with this book is that I could see the pieces, parts and elements of this book while reading it rather than ever reading it as a whole work.
Matthew Riggs needs to have a skill that will help at this exact moment, so one will be revealed just…here.
I eventually finished the book in frustration, the overly lengthy book only heightening my dislike of the book.I’ve enjoyed David Baldacci’s other works and will continue to read them, but I found this a tremendously disappointing and tedious read that, unlike how others feel, offered me little enjoyment.
3.5 stars - I didn't agree with a lot of decisions made by the main characters, but it was an exciting enough read with an interesting villain.
I loved this book, the story line was brilliant and was one of David Baldaccis easier books to follow. A page turner from the start, I'd happily recommend this.
Alone and desperate, she takes the stranger's incredible offer which leads her to New York City to accept her lottery winnings: $100 million dollars.
She has, however, agreed to the stranger's stipulations: She must leave the country and never return; he will control and invest the lottery winnings; LuAnn will live off the investment earnings; at the end of ten years, the entire $100 million will be returned to her in full.
But LuAnn secretly returns to the US after the ten years, putting herself in grave danger, as well as the lives of her daughter, Lisa, and the two men she loves.This was my 2nd Baldacci book, the first being, WISH YOU WELL.
Above average plot with intricate developments, but it was missing the wow factor.
Good but not great.REVIEWER'S OPINION:To let readers know where I'm coming from, my preferred genre is romance novels.
The fact that I liked this should mean something since it is off genre for me.
I would have liked more emotional draw to the characters.
I liked the LuAnn character a lot.
Her strength of mind and body actually scared some men.CAUTION SPOILERS:There were a couple parts that were a little too convenient to the plot for me.
Swearing language: moderate.
Sexual language: none.
Total number of sex sceen pages: 2.
في الروايات تكون الأمور عادة واضحة ..على الأقل بالنسبة لي ..هذه الرواية كلُ شيء ضبابي .فقد تتعاطف مع شخصية الآن بعد قليل ستنقمُ عليها ..لتتعاطف معها بعد ثوانٍ أخرى ..أبدع بالدتشي في صياغة الشخصيات ..وأبدع خاصة في شخصية جاكسون " شخصية لا تتكرر " ..رواية جميلة تستحق النجمات الأربعة التي منحتها إياها .
My second Baldacci book and it did not disappoint! This is a fast-paced, thoroughly entertaining book...I was hooked on page one and stayed hooked through every page until the last. This would make a killer movie!
To make it work he needs people to buy lottery tickets that he guarantees will win and make the ticket holder instant millionaires.
Now the book becomes a page turner but there is a lot of verbiage to get through before you get the page turning.The book is 550 pages long and to keep me interested for that long the book needs to be exceptional and this book didn't quite get there.It's not a bad read but I have read so much better from David Baldacci.The best I could do was 3 stars.
I picked up a few books at a local church book sale.
I have heard really good things about David Baldacci (mainly because of the movie based on his book, Absolute Power) and I found this book for $.50 so I thought I would give it a try.
In fact, when handing my money to the cashier at the sale, the lady said that this was her favorite David Baldacci book.
This book is a good page-turner and it has some good points throughout.
There are a few points of predictability but I guess that is expected if you read as much as I do.
This is one of the earlier book by David Baldacci and somehow he didn't have the mastery of his craf
Lotto winners beware!! What an incredible concept and so very wonderfully composed by another master of the crime/thriller/mystery genre. A criminal mastermind dupes struggling women into buying lottery tickets for the monthly nationwide drawing with promises of a $100 million payoff.What happens afterwards to many of these 'winners', well, let's just say they would have been better off saying HELL NO. Not so fast, should someone turn this depraved evil genius down on his offer they would be, uh, DEAD!5 stars and then some, highly recommend the audio version as well!
He fixes it so she can leave immediately to go to New York and what no one knows is when the Mystery Man calls off the paid killer, that guy follows her to New York with plans to blackmail her.
She wins the lottery but it becomes known she is wanted for murder (and the Mystery Man himself must murder LouAnn's blackmailer)so she has to have her name changed (she has no SS card or license as she was born at home).
She must allow the Mystery Man to invest her $100 million and she gets around $40 million a year and in the end gets the $100 million back.
LuAnn Tyler, a 20-year-old unwed mother of a baby girl trapped in poverty in rural Georgia, is offered a chance to win the (fixed) Lottery.
Jackson, the evil mastermind behind fixing the Lottery and manipulating lives, was also hard to believe, particularly his ability to know everything about everyone, managing it all with minimal assistance from hired help.
On the other hand, it was enjoyable to see a female character whose determination and strength (physical and psychological) carries her through every challenge.
And it certainly serves as a cautionary tale for anyone who thinks they have a chance at winning the lottery.
My first David Baldacci book, he seems quite popular, so I though I would give one if his books a read.Maybe I chose the wrong one, but I thought this book was terrible.
It seemed like he had an idea of what he wanted as a final result, and then tried to make everything make sense, but it just seemed forced.Several times while reading, I thought "Why didn't they just...." In my book, that's the worst offense.
And unless the author comes up with another explanation, the book and it's characters, becomes unrelatable to me, the reader.In this case I found those explanations flimsy at best, but for the most part, nonexistent.
I do like reading Baldacci's mysteries. This has a unique fast-paced plot, with lots of twists and turns, and his characters are well developed. Each time I read one of his books I'm impressed with how different they are from each other and I wonder how he comes up with such varying scenarios and interesting characters. He is a very talented writer. There is no bad language and although there is a sex scene it's nothing compared toKen Follett or other popular mystery writers.
Probably my favorite Baldacci book. If you love a good mystery, this book is sure to please!
The WinnerDavid Baldacci 1997A little verboseA little out thereA little of this and a lot of that.This book has action, a scenario that is believable – with the little touches, but some coincides that bog the story down.
3 starsThe DreamShe is twenty, beautiful, dirt-poor, and hoping for a better life for her infant daughter when LuAnn Tyler is offered the gift of a lifetime, a $100 million lottery jackpot.
It's a price she won't fully pay...until she does the unthinkable and breaks the promise that made her rich.The WinnerFor if LuAnn Tyler comes home, she will be pitted against the deadliest contestant of all: the chameleonlike financial mastermind who changed her life.
After reading his more recent works about special forces bad asses (Puller, Stone, Robbie) it was a culture shock to read this earlier work about an ordinary girl. I wasn't sure at first if I would like this but as the story unfolded this girl is far from ordinary and likely to join the ranks of bad asses. Great writing, narration and story development, this was one I would recommend over most of his other works. It's refreshing to read a different kind of book by Baldacci. This book really expounds on the fact that money does not buy happiness.
Longer and more complex than your average bestselling thriller. Enjoyable, but not the best.
And whichever decision she makes...what of the implications for her baby?It is that "vehicle" and other aspects of this story that, at least initially, made this a book that leaves the reader anxious to see what's going to happen next.
How many times did we need to be reminded by David Baldacci that LuAnn was beautiful, incredibly smart and resourceful and stronger than Superman?
After the author skips 10 years, the smart, resourceful LuAnn comes back, buys a mansion in a prominent neighborhood in Charlottesville, Virginia and files a tax return.
Baldacci's the best !!!
A down-and-out woman is given the chance of a lifetime in winning big in the lottery.
Her secretive contact keeps hold of her winnings for 10 years, giving her a healthy sum to live on during those years, and promises to hand the capital back to her after that time.Fast forward ten years and our damsel-in-distress is a force of nature - wielding a gun whenever possible and chopping wood faster than her groundskeeper as well as being indescribably beautiful.
This lottery scam even involves the president!
I just wanted to say "Focus, David!
Focus your book on one thing!"
His books quickly cut to the chase and he is a master at developing unique and relatable characters.
The villian is acceptional.HOWEVER, Annie from Stephen King's Misery would have slit his throat on this one because the believability of the premise just wasn't there.Because it is fiction, there is room for leeway, but the villian could have accomplished what he was trying to accomplish by much easier means...it just didn't make sense to make other people the lottery winners given financial gain was his primary objective.
He could have done it all himself if he just won the lottery once by himself and invested it just like he did with other people's money.In addition, the villian was a master of disguise.
READ IN DUTCHIt was the first book I read by David Baldacci, and I must admit I liked it. I thought it to be interesting to read and original. Some parts were not really realistic, but it didn't really seem to matter in this book. I liked it, I would even recommend it. And it made me buy another book by Baldacci, which I still need to read sometime. O, wish we had more time to read, but I guess I'm not alone...
