https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/615570.The_Artist_s_Way
Julia Cameron works my last nerve.
She's always talking about looking out at the sun-dappled mesas of New Mexico, or using some other affected, high-falutin' lingo about her gloriously new age, trendy life.
Meanwhile, I look out at the cracked concrete of my driveway in the Chicago drizzle and wonder how us normal people ever survived without people like Julia Cameron telling us about their fantastically charmed lives.
However, I like the little mind toys in this book.
I strolled the aisles of dollar stores and played a bit because of her book, and it was fun.
You should not skip your child's soccer game to paint your masterpiece.
Your kid is the masterpiece.
All of the relationships in your life are masterpieces.
I use that as an example but there are other moments in this book where self-indulgence at the expense of others is encouraged.
This is loathsome.So why didn't I just give the book and the program a 1-star rating?
This really is a great way to stimulate your creativity, no matter what your craft is.Overall, if you want to try this program, go for it and recognize which parts do and don't work for you.
At the time I first read it fifteen years ago, it did wonders to open me up creatively.
I was still struggling to slough off some negative parental programming about being a writer, and this book (along with a good friend) helped give me permission to explore that side of myself.Since that time, however, my belief system has changed so radically that I no longer agree with a number of the book’s fundamental premises.
I do think it contains some good material in the form of useful exercises and uplifting stories about creative development.
(See also: The Runner's Handbook!) I have started this book many times and not finished my 12-week (or more) commitment, but this time, when I got to the point where I wanted to give up, I kept on going, and let me tell you where I am now, as a result of this:I pitched my memoir to agents in February.I am taking acting lessons.I have started wearing clothes I like every single day!I am planting a garden.I have taken up knitting.I am taking ballet classes.I am treating myself to massages, manicures, and trips.I write every single day.I have started working on my memoir again after a long withdrawal period, post-graduation.I am having more fun and playing!I am discovering myself.If you are interested in doing this, please feel free to contact me.
I am going through the book again, and I would love to work it with other people!
My New Year's resolution for 1998 was to finally actually DO the Artists' Way. I had given it to several people close to me for the last three holidays, but I had never actually done the process.
It is a book to do and it promises major life changes in 13 weeks.
I was desperate to find a new way to make a living and decided to give this my best shot.
13 weeks later there was no epiphany.
Two weeks later, week 15 it dawned on me and I saw a way out and I knew what I had to do to get there.
It changed my life.
A book to cheer you on when you feel like you can only look longingly at your passion (writing, painting, drawing...) because the dog needs a walk and the kids need a bath, and you've bills to pay so you've just come home from a job that took you from the house and back to it without a glimpse of the sun.
I was introduced to The Artist's Way back in 2005 when I took a college class on creativity.
If I hadn't signed up for that class, I'm sure I would have never picked up this book.
I did the morning pages every day and an artist's date once a week.
The morning pages resulted in an award-winning nonfiction book, a series of children's picture book manuscripts, and the willingness to embark upon another, more challenging nonfiction book writing project.
Most importantly, even more important than the concrete examples of creativity that have resulted, I was given a set of tools for life - tools that enable me to challenge that critical voice in my head, and to trust my instincts.
Look, for writers and artists whatever inspires you to create is a good thing.
However, I found this book (For me) to be too "I am an artist, I am bohemian, I create" attitude.
Writing (or any of the arts) has a greater verity for my when it's a little less "GIFT OF THE GODS" and a little more "craft." The most successful creators view their work as a craft in the same manner that a furniture maker or a bricklayer would, in my experience.
Also when one focuses more on craftsmanship rather than inspiration it makes for better work as well.
There is a lot of talk about nurturing the inner child that is our real artist, the child’s inability to accept raw criticism and how this creates emotional scar tissue.
That was where she lost me for good.The book is full of case examples; artists, novelists, poets, script writers, all of who benefited from Cameron’s twelve week recovery.
One example is Ted, a blocked novelist who after the program and twelve (that number again) years of working with the Morning Pages, now has three novels to his credit.
I read and did the exercises in this book during the most intense professional and personal time in my life. It was a life-changer because it allowed me to articulate my life purpose which is fundamentally about using my voice and helping others to find theirs. I recommend this book often.
I read this book while I wrote Still Alice, and I'm reading it again while I write Left Neglected. Thank you, Julia Cameron, for this amazing gift!! And thank you to RJ Julia's book store in CT for the gift of this edition.
I have been inspired by this book, and it has helped me work through things, instead of ignoring big problems with my creative process and trying to push them aside.
First, if you're considering doing this but aren't sure, read "The Artist's Way Questions and Answers" in the back of the book (page 205 in the 10th Anniversary Edition that I had), and you'll get a really good idea of what you'll be doing every day, every week, and Julia Cameron's philosophical approach to her book.
Okay, I read over a half and this is cheating a little bit but I am so DONE with the book!
And I do believe that enduring through 150 pages of this entitles me to regard it as absolutely "read".
Any book that recommends affirmations is not good for much else but using it as a beer coaster.
Then there's this constant babbling about some God the Creator - Whatever.
There's more pseudo-psychotherapeutic talk than any actual propositions of inviting creativity...
Oh, and the repetition of the "artist's child" phrase was driving me insane.
I read The Artist's Way a few years ago and could see the benefits of actually doing the work in it.
But will I do it this time?I have many other artists friends who have read it and also planned on doing it, but I don't know if they have either...The Artist Way is a book written to unblock artist of a kinds, writers, painters, actors ect.
The book is full of exercises to get you on that creative path, week by week, 12 in all (I think).
Before coffee?I do recommend this book to all my creative friends reading this.
So her model goes back and forth between "you have to open yourself to God's will" and "you have to find the ideas that are deep within you and nurture them into bloom.") Also, I admit this freely, I have all the spirituality of a brick, so treating creativity as something spiritual means it's something I'm excluded from, and I think I can be forgiven for not liking that model very much.PROBLEM NUMBER TWO: Cameron has (I hope unconsciously) reinvented one of Freud's more repellent ideas.
So, basically, if you question or argue with her, that's a sign you're Doing It Wrong.This idea annoys me more than a little.PROBLEM NUMBER THREE: Cameron is writing from a position of unconscious privilege.
i'm just randomly pulling these off my shelf, literally, i didn't even know i had this still but it's what helped me get back to writing when i did my first book eight thousand years ago, the one everyone says WHY CAN'T YOU WRITE ANOTHER BOOK LIKE THAT???
book.i always give "the morning pages" exercise to my students.
(that makes it sound like i have students hanging around me and in my life at all times instead of twice a year.)but here it is, a teaser for this fine book:1.
you are not doing writing writing.
Whether you make it through every chapter or not, there is something meaningful to take away from the writing prompts, "morning pages," and playful, creative exercises ...
and to this day, I have a much better outlook in general when I make a point of taking myself on an "artist's date."(To those who are in the middle of working through the book on their own or with a group ...
but really, I found that as long as I did them as some point in the day, there was value in it.)
First read this book with a class in 1997.
Oh, the disgruntling over morning pages.
Oh, the looks of sheer hatred I got when I announced I'd given myself permission to write morning pages at the end of the day because I knew I wouldn't get them written otherwise.
Re-read in 2006 with GB to get ready to facilitate an expressive writing support group.
Those pages are now lovingly known as the whatever pages.
This book gives permission, and I think we all need a lot of that in order to take creative baby steps.
Go ahead.
Jump on in.
the perfect 'bible' for any creative soul.
Other friends have also recommended the War of Art as a tool for unlocking creativity. I'm interested to check that one out too.
قبلا این کتاب رو جاهای دیگه دیده بودم و خیلی سرسری ازش رد شدم.کتاب های روانشناسی مرتبط به رشته ام زیاد خوندم ولی این با بقیه فرق داشت،خیلی به صورت عملی کمکت میکرد و ناخودآگاه روت تاثیر میذاشت که دونه دونه تمرین های گفته شده رو به خواست خودت انجام بدی(پیشنهاد داده هر روز صبح سه صفحه بنویسی هرچی به ذهنت میاد).
It's obviously written for people who are not 'artists' per say, but would like to be.
The hardest thing the book challenges you to do is write at least 3 pages a day, free writing, by hand, right after you wake up.
I struggled for the first month, but after that I enjoyed actually writing every day.I don't actually do the morning pages anymore, but would start them up again later.It wasn't a complete wash, but the book wasn't really written for people who studied creative writing in college.
If you were an adult in the late 1990s and don't know this book, you were either living under a rock or never set foot inside a bookstore or library or community center for that matter.
I was living in Reno and then in Charlotte, NC when the book's popularity hit its zenith and there were Artist Way groups that got together at bookstores, libraries, community centers, and coffee shops.The biggest takeaway for me was morning pages--writing, by longhand, three pages of stream of consciousness stuff going on in your head to get it out of the way.
Įdomiau būtų, jei būčiau naudojusi ši knygą taip, kaip ji ir parašyta - kaip pratybų sąsiuvinį. Tačiau tik skaičiau ir todėl kai kurios vietos man atrodė pernelyg nuklampinančios į savigailą.Knyga gali padėti ne tik menininkams ir norintiems tokiais tapti, bet apskritai visiems, turintiems svajonę kažką nuveikti ir niekaip tam neprisiruošiantiems (nes būtent neprisiruošimui ir kliūtims skiriama daugiausia dėmesio). Gali nepatikti tiems, kurie nenori prisiminti nieko iš savo vaikystės (arba galvoja, kad nieko iš ten neprisimena), nes dauguma pratimų skatina prisiminti ją, save, kai buvai vaikas ir pan.
Today I finished the 12-week program in this book for the 4th time.
Other times, they are exactly what I need at the time.When writers ask me to recommend a book to learn how to write, I recommend this one.
It will step on all your toes and make you work hard and stop procrastinating, but it will feel fantastic if you follow through.
It's better to have people who will be there when you realize you're a terrible artist -- people who have seen your work and who can see the qualities that make you stand out.I can't speak highly enough of this book and this process.
I read this ages ago when my mother gave me a copy for my daughter.
I definitely needed the emotional push.Years later, I led a book group on this book and we had a wonderful time working through the book, growing closer as a group and feeling stronger in our individual ways of being artistic.Years later, my mother suggested we read through it together and I once again had to take it back from my daughter.
We both had a great time (although I found the exercises not as helpful the third time through).The first time I read the book, I didn't try to do everything Cameron suggests.
Especially after a few pints.Are we starting to get what’s wrong with this picture?It was time to stop the madness and reassess.The good news is, I didn’t have a complete nervous breakdown.The better news is, I knew how to heal myself.Some of you may be familiar with Julia Cameron’s The Artist’s Way – a classic on creativity, spirituality, and recovery.
It’s a twelve-week program sort of based on twelve-step programs, but for artists and creativity.The Artist’s Way is a huge commitment.
It's based on a popular workshop Cameron taught in NYC to help creative people recover their creative productivity and passion, so each week's "lesson" starts with a lecture (about 6-8 pages of content), is peppered with quotes from other creative people to inspire and cheer you along, and ends with a set of tasks for you to complete or not.I say "or not" because she says you don't have to do all the exercises to reap the benefits of creative recovery, but there is still maybe something helpful in there for you if you do them.
وقتی خود را به روی خلاقیت خویش می گشاییم، خود را به روی خلاقیت خالقی می گشاییم که درون ما و زندگی ماست.
I'm convinced that the best way to do the program is to do it as a group with a good facilitator.
And while it's opposing what Cameron herself suggests, I do believe the facilitator needs to have a different role than the other members of the circle, to keep the group organized and to plan how the work will get done.
The format where some exercises are in the book and some are suggested at the end leads to too much scattered, imporant work.
