https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6424.Seven_Up
Book Review  4 out of 5 stars to Seven Up, the 7th book in the "Stephanie Plum" cozy mystery series, written in 2001 by Janet Evanovich. They just keep getting funnier. And in this one, Stephanie gets a marriage proposal from Joe. But Ranger will only help her with the crazy old bail jumper on the loose if she will do anything he tells her to do. She kinda likes that. So do I. But not if she's gonna marry Joe. Come on! The antics and shenanigans are on high alert. Her family is way over the to
Book Review
4 out of 5 stars to Seven Up, the 7th book in the "Stephanie Plum" cozy mystery series, written in 2001 by Janet Evanovich.
And in this one, Stephanie gets a marriage proposal from Joe. But Ranger will only help her with the crazy old bail jumper on the loose if she will do anything he tells her to do.
Her family is way over the top and need to be stopped.
It's a great book in the series, can be read in under 4 hours and will leave you red from embarrassment and laughter.
here's the scoop: I read A LOT.
Truth is, I think naked men are kind of strange looking what with their doodles and ding-dong hanging loose like they do. Nevertheless, there's the curiosity thing. I guess it's another one of those car crash experiences, where you feel compelled to look even if you know you'll be horrified. And, this is the mindset of the girl who has two major alpha men after her? I'm not saying that I disagree with the awkward boy-parts thing, but Stephanie has to be the most un-sexy girl I have ever read. S
Truth is, I think naked men are kind of strange looking what with their doodles and ding-dong hanging loose like they do.
I'm not saying that I disagree with the awkward boy-parts thing, but Stephanie has to be the most un-sexy girl I have ever read.
Stephanie's mother convinces her to try on wedding dresses and her grandma is renting a hall.
"My mother and grandmother showed up and next thing I was trying on gowns.""You'd tell me if we were getting married, wouldn't you?
OK I didn't add reviews to the last several books in this series because I was out of town (stuck in a snowstorm back east)& didn't get to my computer until today.
Very quick reads too - perfect for passing the time in an airport with nothing else to do.
I had several people several times give me strange looks in the airports and on the planes because I would just crack up laughing.
I just started #7 and already have #8 waiting for me when I am done.I have never read a series that is this long and that I am still enjoying and can't wait for the next one.
Sharing a mysterious relationship with the bad guy of the book, DeChooch, her family is forced to endure her unusual and mind-blowing facts of her life.“Not that I know of,” Grandma said.
In this book, Stephanie and Lula become closer and share more intimate moments.
And with Stephanie and Lula’s friendship, you can only anticipate and imagine what will happen next.Lula reset the safety on the gun.
“Are you crying?”“No. I think I inhaled a bug a couple blocks ago.”I definitely recommend this book to anyone that is reading this series in order.
Time to start the next book in the Stephanie Plum series, Hard Eight!Happy reading!
The only thing Mrs. Plum can hold up as an example to all is her sainted normal daughter Valerie, who is happily married to a perfect husband, with two little girls who are perfect little ladies.
Stephanie continues confounding her mother with her chosen profession of a bounty-hunter, and not very good one at that, and keep trying to encourage her to find a new job.
I can be happy because I'm well adjusted."Good thing Valerie moved back to Jersey.
Absolute must read for the fans of Stephanie Plum!!!Now I wish all happy reading and may you find joy in every book!!!
Mooner, the dejected stoner is still around—although his roommate seems to have turned up missing and Mooner just might have to move in with Stephanie for protection when the bodies start showing up.
So you can see why all hell breaks loose in the Burg when Dealer goes missing.Wait a minute.
Did Stephanie accidently set a date?
What the heck is the real case Stephanie is on anyway?
I am not even sure you need to read the first six.
The running gags just keep getting better and better.Once again, you must tell no one I am reading this series.
I swear these two could get themselves in trouble in a kids soft play area!Throw in family drama with her not-so-perfect sister Valerie who has moved back home with her two daughters and put Grandma Mazur on a motorbike and you know you're going to be in for an interesting ride, especially since all that's before we even think about the two men in her life.Stephanie somehow seems to be accidentally engaged to Morelli even though he never officially proposed and now that it looks like she's off the market (her mother is already shopping for the wedding dress and Grandma Mazur has the hall booked!) Ranger has decided it's time to up the ante and make his presence felt.
Ranger ups the heat on Stephanie by making a deal with her .
She sets a bogus wedding date to appease the women in her life and if puts pressure on Joe and she to discuss what their relationship is going to look like when the lights are on, they are fully dressed, and not on a surface they can use for sex.
I believe Joe's fear that something horrible is going to happen to Stephanie really freaks him out and makes him say things -- really stupid things.
This opens the door for Ranger who is continuing to up the heat by making a deal with Stephanie.
While the basic plot of the books in this series tends to have the same set-up, what changes is the personal relationships.
The characters don't grow dramatically throughout the books, but I think they change in subtle ways and they keep the story interesting.
For me, this is a fun series to read and has a couple of great characters that make me smile and keep me reading.
If you don't mind the repetetiveness of the plot, I think these are a great series of books to read and a lot of fun.
Attenzione: si sconsiglia la lettura di questi libri sui mezzi pubblici, o in mezzo alla gente in ge
Stephanie's after another ancient mob-connected FTA who seems to have an uncanny ability to disappear even when she seemingly has him in her grasp.
The plot revolves around the disappearance of a mob guy's heart.
Amidst it all, Stephanie's perfect sister turns up with her two kids, in from California where her perfect husband has just taken all their money and deserted them.
She now thinks she might like to become a bounty hunter like Stephanie, and, oh yes, perhaps turn lesbian.
Now here comes Ranger again and we are left with the tease of will she or won't she?
This book was awful.
One of the few times in my life where I thougth to myself, "I could have written this same story and same characters myself, and it would have been much better." Does this woman even have a college degree?
Please don't read this book, you will get dumber.
The main character is unlikeable, a tramp, and an embarrassment to women everywhere.
America needs to do better than this book.
You know who will like this book?
The same public who likes "Deal or no Deal".
Picking random suitcases with hot but fake looking women?
America must do better!
Toujours aussi bon.J'aimerais beaucoup que la mère ait un rôle un peu plus important dans un des tomes suivants, car elle a un potentiel comique assez immense comme personnage !Sinon, encore une fin hummmm.... Mais heureusement cette fois j'ai prévu : j'ai le tome suivant entre les mains ! NA :)
What I like the most about Stephanie Plum series is the continuity of characters; Grandma Mazur, Lula, Morelli, Ranger and Stephanie, Stephanie's mother and father. But storywise, I get the feeling that all books are the same. This one was however a bit less entertaining than the previous ones.
However it annoys the hell out of me when one of the guys is turned into or does a jerk move to justify the girl going to the other man.Joe acts totally out of character and I saw it coming.
And when it happened, I rolled my eyes.I wasn’t surprised by the fluffy ending and feel no rush like the last fluffy to read the next book.I like Ranger, a lot.
Joe feels more solid.Curiosity will bring me back, but I won’t pay to read it.
Unfortunately, she reads one of my favorite series and I had a hard time separating the characters for a moment there.
The scenes at the dinner table are always my favorite with Stephanie’s father trying not to choke on hisfood every time Grandma Mazur makes some outrageous statement or describes which funeral director does a better job at making uptheir clients and why.
Crazy old bat.“ ‘What about Loretta [recent murder victim found in Eddie’s garage:] and Eddie DeChooch?’ I asked.
‘From what I know Loretta liked her men hot, and Eddie DeChooch couldn’t get it up.
No matter what I did I couldn’t get a thing to happen.’“My father looked up at Grandma, and a piece of meat fell out of his mouth.
There isn't much to say about these books other than they are so funny! I love Grandma Mazur and the whole cast of zaney, crazy characters!
What's this old man have to hide?As always, I just loved this book!
As much has I love Evanovich's writing and her Plum Series, I still find myself waiting for the other shoe to drop, and to run into a book that hits that series wall.
You know the one, the one that makes you think, Oh boy...this is the same poop different book and time for the series to end.
Even at the end you are left awaiting the next read to see what will really happen to poor Stephanie next.
My favorite part:"That's the dumbest load of shit I ever heard," Lula said, biting into a chicken thigh.
"You're supposed to do that Heimlich thing."I ran around to Lula and tried to wrap my arms around her to do the Heimlich, but my arms wouldn't go all the way around.A big guy walked over from the counter, got Lula in a bear hug from behind, and squeezed."Ptoooh," Lula said.
And a piece of chicken flew out of her mouth and hit a kid two tables over in the head."You've got to lose some weight," I said to Lula."It's just I've got big bones," Lula said.Everything quieted down, and Lula sucked on her milkshake."I had an idea while I was dying," Lula said.
Not my favorite, but enjoyable nonetheless.
Hot guys?
Random guys breaking into Stephanie's apartment?
check.So, what's different?
Things get ugly in Seven Up...including Stephanie's hair color.I laughed so hard while reading Hot Six I couldn't wait to go for Seven Up. I think reading the two books back-to-back took away some of the hilarity.
Usually I read a few heavier books in between, making the Janet Evanovich series feel like a cold beer on a hot day.
I'm taking another break, and I'll be back with Hard Eight.
Seven Up might not have been my favorite, but I'm still moving on to No. 8.
Life is complicated for Stephanie Plum.
Then there's Ranger, who makes her stomach clench and her toe's curl.
Though she is sort of engaged to Joe, neither of them are ready for the Big M, and now Ranger has just offered Stephanie a very indecent proposal in exchange for his aid in bringing down Stephanie's latest skip.
Stephanie isn't sure what shoe will drop next, but she's about to find out.Hi-lights include:1.
Stephanie makes her mud wrestling debut6.
Ranger, no longer in the wind, is entering Stephanie's bed.This series is mindlessly entertaining, ridiculously over the top, sexy and oh so funny.
If you've read the other six books in this series you have no reason to stop before you read this one.
How is Eddie DeChooch to so hard to catch???
Well our heroine Stephanie Plum probably thinks it's like catching a greased up pig.
Grandma Mazur is headed to Stiva's again to check out the latest funeral, will she or won't she take a peek in the closed casket...read and find out.
These books are so entertaining I still wonder to myself why I never started this series sooner.
I will continue reading this series and luckily there is at least 18 or 19 of these bay boys, ha ha.
SERIE STEPHANIE PLUM n.
7LETTURA DI GRUPPO E&lEsilarante come al solito.
Con la tutina da supereroe poi..da morir dal ridere.Solita indagine strampalata.
Ritorna la sorella dalla vita perfetta Valerie dalla California che si scopre che non ha poi la vita così perfetta.
Addirittura vuoel diventare Lesbica.Stephanie intanto è alle prese con i preparativi del suo matrimonio con Morelli, ma c'è Ranger che la fa vacillare.Finisce tutto in fumo e finisce anche male,almeno per me..insomma..Steph togliti lo sfizio e poi torna da Morelli perchè potrei incazzarmi come non mai!Ovviamente attendo il prossimo con ansia.Firmate qui per la pubblicazione dei successivi volumi!http://firmiamo.it/3-libri-di-janet-e...
1. I wanted this wedding to happen SO BAD2.
Steph picked out a dress...A DRESS!!!3.
Mooner was too much to handle in this book!
More often than not, I was DYING everytime he appeared.
Get it together Mooner!4.
Eddie DeChooch may just be my favorite FTA so far, how he kept escaping Steph is beyond me, but I loved every bit of it.
5. Bob needs to stick around.6.
He also needs to keep making visits to Joyce's yard.
LOL7.
Joe and Steph NEED to be endgame8.
Grandma Mazur is the best character in this entire series.
No question.9.
I may be sized more like Lula than Stephanie, but Lycra leggings and a rugby top - my version of her spandex shorts and hockey top - are a comfortable combination I think I'd been neglecting of late, so thanks to Ms Evanovich for reminding me of them.To the book.
Glad to see Dougie & Mooner are still around - not being a dog-lover, I'm less certain about Bob - and a big hello to once perfect Valerie and her children.
OK, so the latter have nothing to do with the main storyline of smuggled cigarettes and other stuff being transported and lost, but, as ever the subplots and family arguments add to the mayhem.
I think I finished this one just after lunch ...
I really enjoyed listening to this novel while I was running. Stephanie has to go after Eddie DeChooch, which should be easy considering he is pretty old and depressed. Unfortunately that's not the case. Stephanie needs to go on a wild goose chase, which involves kidnapping, a dead body and a love triangle. Seven Up was an entertaining read (or listen), which is all I need on my long runs. There was a few laugh out loud moments and a few surprises that I didn't see coming.
I still find this series to be very funny. I like listening to the audio version.
A little corny and drawn out but still entertaining. I've read 3 of this series and I might jump aheadto #15 or so
Per me, rimane ancora un mistero.Ma. In quanto a comicità, non è mai da sottovalutare la famiglia Plum, stavolta al completo, nè tantomeno nonna Mazur che, diciamocelo, è diventata la portabandiera (boh, passatemi il termine) della serie.Valerie, la sorella di Stephanie torna all'ovile con le due figlie, causa divorzio da marito fedifrago.
Il suo ritorno non fa che confermare quello che già tutti pensavano: non ce n'è uno normale in quella famiglia.
Che razza di famiglia è questa?"[...]Mary Alice aveva cenato per tutto il tempo con la faccia nel piatto perchè i cavalli non hanno mani.
I have liked some parts of some books, but overall I'm not in love with them.
Feed Rex, check the contents of her purse, make up her hair big, ignore the semi-serious relationship with Joe while continuing to lust after Ranger, take Grandma Mazur to a viewing, blah, blah blah.
I usually listen to these on audio, but my library system doesn't have this one...Anyway, I think that formula worked for a bit but it's time to change things up a bit.
Maybe actually fully commit to Joe and start trying to grow up figure out how to be in the relationship and still be herself.
