https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/394689.Tales_of_the_Unexpected
I'm almost sure the whole point of these tales is in the delivery.Think back to a time when the conversation with friends and family around a dinner table saw no mobile phones or Ipads in sight.
These were the stories that were delivered (sometimes by the inebriated) at such a time, not to draw laughter or applause but quiet appreciation and perhaps the beginnings of a conversation.
They are to draw in the listener, to elicit the occasional sigh or gasp but they are nothing if not delivered perfectly.
Dahl has written these sixteen stories as they need to be delivered.
هر داستان این مجموعه، گرهی حیرت آور در خود دارد.
و بر سر دخترش شرط میبندد، یا مسافری که برای بردن در شرط بندی، خود را به دریا میاندازد؛ در این مجموعه، داستان ادوارد فاتح هم هست، و گربه ای اسرارآمیز که امنیت خانواده را به خطر میاندازد؛ و بانویی که با ظاهر بی گناهش، اتاق کرایه میدهد و مهمانانش بیش از حد انتظار پیش او میمانند، و نباید داستان دلپذیر و تکان دهنده ی انتقام گیری بره ی قربانی را فراموش کرد.
داستانهای کوتاه رولد دال، نمونه ای است برای هر کس که میخواهد داستان کوتاه بنویسد یا بخواند.
I must admit that when I first purchased this book, I really thought it was a book for children. Why did I think this? Well, mostly because I've only read childrens' books by Roald Dahl. This is not a book for children!This is another review-in-progress, starting with the very first story. Taste  is the story of two men, Mike Schoefield and Richard Pratt. They have this curious tradition that Mike finds a wine, a really good wine, and then Richard has to guess what it is. However, at this partic
This is not a book for children!This is another review-in-progress, starting with the very first story.
Since this is a story with a twist, I won't reveal the ending, except to say that it kept me at the edge of my seat all the way to the end.
I've not felt my heart beat like this for a long time while reading a story.
is another betting story, this one involving a boy, a man, a cadillac and a little finger.
Awesome story that really kept me at the edge of my seat!
is one of the more morbid stories in the book (so far).
El lado más cínico y siniestro, macabro incluso, del autor inglés puede pillarnos muy por sorpresa a los que solo lo conocemos por sus obras infantiles. La maestría con la que juega con las tensiones tan diferentes de estos relatos es maravillosa y nos demuestra con creces su dominio del género. Consigue tenernos en vilo a pesar de que a veces podemos acertar a imaginar cómo acabará por resolverse el enredo. En otras ocasiones nos deja con cara de pasmo de la manera más espectacular. Reseña completa y mi versión de la portada en https://sidumbledorefueralibrero.com/...
Goofing around with Google Translate on Roald Dahl's 100th birthday ... and the result was quite – well – unexpected
Estes contos são uma coisa maravilhosa!Dezasseis histórias contadas com um humor muito negro e com uns finais cruéis e surpreendentes. De alguns lembro-me de os ter visto numa série, que passou há muitos anos na televisão, e que eu adorava: Hitchcock Apresenta. Creio que não estão traduzidos para português, o que é uma pena; li-os em castelhano graças ao César Lasso, a quem muito agradeço.
This would be a great book to use as a model for lessons in irony with a creative writing class, because that is the purpose of every story--to provide an ironic ending to an otherwise relatively mundane story.
Luckily, I like to see execution, so I did read the book as a sort of self-exercise.I'd recommend this book to creative writing teachers, but not too many other people.
The irony is well executed, but other than thinking, "wow, that was well set up!" I did not have much of a reaction to the stories.
Al principio no me estaba gustando mucho, porque tres de los primeros cuatro cuentos tratan de apuestas y, aunque con diferente anécdota, mostraban las mismas herramientas de persuasión entre personajes.
Pensé en ese momento que si había un cuento más sobre apuestas, iba a lanzar el libro por la ventana.
Pero por suerte los siguientes se van por otro lado y, antes de que me diera cuenta, ya estaba completamente involucrada en el juego que plantean: todos estos cuentos tendrán un final inesperado, y el trabajo del lector es tratar de resolver el enigma.
Ok so we all know that I don't like short stories so why am I reading this book??Well, I WANT to like them and I thought if anyone can write short stories I'll like surely it would be Roald Dahl?!?!?! I just loved Tales of the Unexpected TV series (admittedly that was many years ago!).Unfortunately, it didn't work - there are a couple of good ones but mainly I remain baffled.The stories are too abstract and random for my taste.
Unfortunately i only got to page 119 when i had to return it to the library, so i'll continue the rest of the book at a later time.Still, those stories I read, I really liked.
Very dahl-esque, quirky stories that read very fast (so don't ask why i didn't manage to finish it in the normal library-loan-time).
All kind of weird events, such as chopped fingers and even people who literally sell their skin, but they're all embedded in a very normal world.
And even though none of these stories really blew me away, they were fun.
It is always good to read something that originated in Roald Dahl's brain.
Leído allá por principios de los años 2000. Me lo pasé muy bien con su lectura, aunque algunos relatos no estuvieran tan bien. Se puede considerar un clásico.
Many of the best stories in tbis book stop just on the threshold of the truly dark, because the author knows that it's far more effective to leave the details unfold and reverberate in the reader's imagination.These tales may remind some readers of the stories of Patricia Highsmith.
Upon reflection, a better comparison for these tales might be the stories of Saki (H.H. Munro).Either way, it's a hugely enjoyable, often hilarious collection, which I consider the best of Dahl's work.
I think the main problem, was the first few stories were EXCELLENT, and set the bar way too high for the remaining tales.
This story is easily some of the best ten pages I have ever read.
Other magnificent stories were: "Man from the South"-its about an man who loves betting fancy cars for peoples fingers..."Dip in the pool"-a man jumps over board on a cruise liner, just to win some money..."Skin"-A man has a tattoo worth millions of dollars on his back...
These were the ones that really stood out and amazed me, but each and every story in here was magnificent.
3.5 starsAn entertaining book, some stories were very predictable but others were great.My personal favorites are The Landlady, Nunc Dimittis, and Skin. And the best one: The way up to Heaven.I didn't like the fact that the author portraited every women in the book in such a grotesque way but most of the characters were very interesting, the stories were original and the imagination of the author is noticeable.I want to keep on reading his work.
I decided to forgo reading the 900 page volume of all of Roald Dahl's short stories and purchase a smaller collection to make sure I actually liked them first.
The story itself is wonderful, and at the end, you think you know what happened, but you can't be 100 % sure.
They're aptly named, that's for sure, and I loved them.I don't know if I have a specific favorite story; they were all really good, and all really chilling and effective.
However, not all of his stories are told like that.I really, really loved this collection of stories, and Roald Dahl was really a genius writer.
This collection of short stories showcases a much darker and more sinister side of Roald Dahl than his previous works of children’s fiction.
In sixteen short stories the reader is both enthralled and appalled at the depths to which some of the characters sink to when placed in various predicaments.
Who could forget the chilling tale of the landlady who taxidermies her guests, or the housewife who kills her husband with a leg of lamb and then serves the lamb to the investigating police officers.This book is an absolute pleasure to read due to the fabulous writing and narrative skills of Mr Dahl.
I look forward to discovering more of his adult stories.
Dahl is an absolute master of brevity, drawing the reader in and painting vivid character studies with just a few words. The stories in this collection have a fairly common structure (something unusual or macabre happens to some ordinary-ish characters), but he manages to get something different out of each tale. They're all gripping and whilst Dahl doesn't always hit a satisfying high note at the end, when he does it's a joyous thing. Favourites for me in this collection were 'Man from the South', 'Lamb to the Slaughter' and 'Mrs Bixby and the Colonel's Coat'. HUGELY recommended.
Започнах тази книга без никакви очаквания. Беше интересно преживяване. Може би за първи път се сблъсках с разкази, които ме увличаха и дразнеха едновременно - с нарегнатата си атмосфера на безумни залагания, спорове и болни/износени семейни отношения, интриги и машинации. Едно обаче е сигурно - четата се на един дъх, майсторски разказани през диалози и градации на детайла. Това ми е първата среща с автора и може би няма да е последната. Но не скоро.
Aj po rokoch ma táto zbierka poviedok stále baví. Dahl je môj poviedkový kráľ :)
My favourites were: Galloping Foxley, Lamb To The Slaughter and The Way Up To Heaven, the others were super MEH!
Each story would leave you with a big smile with a strong urge that the person sitting next to you would read it too. Pleasure and nostalgia all the way.
I had high hopes for this collection of short stories because I adored Dahl as a child and I imagined that Tales of the Unexpected would be a welcomed step up in style and themes, like taking the stabilisers off a beloved bicycle.
Of course it's compulsory to choose a favourite from the collection, and so without further ado, my favourite was Mrs Bixby and the Colonel's Coat.
It is decided that Mr Bixby will collect the item, and he comes home with 2 dead minks for Mrs Bixby to wear as a scarf!

I needed something short, easy and entertaining for a trip full of business interruptions.Well ???Short stories, of course.Easy and entertaining ??...Roald Dahl....?
familiar and disliked.They recalled an over-rated, popular English writer, whose wife cleansed his books of faults before he presented his latest opus to his publisher.
But here were pages of apiary information in one story and history of composers in th'other...neither the Guts of the tales, but we were to get it ALL, all the same!!!
I'd never read it, but seen the tale as a half-hour TV series devoted to Roald's stories.Several had no clever twist in their tail AT ALL.
Such deliciously twisted stories, and such fine writing. Dahl’s physical descriptions and acute observation of body language and gesture are just brilliant.
A collection of wacky stories from the master storyteller himself
This is perfection! My favourites are: "Lamb to the slaughter", "Man from the south", "The Landlady", "The way up to heaven", "Parson's pleasure" and "Royal jelly". Can't wait to read the rest of his work.
دال أستاذ القصة القصيرة ذات النهاية الغير متوقعة. أفضل قصصه التي تبتعد عن الرعب المباشر أو الخيال. القصص من 8 إلى 16 مأخوذة من مجموعته الشهيرةKiss Kissفيما يلي نبذة قصيرة عن قصص المجموعة01. Taste02.Lamb to the Slaughter03.Man from the South04.My Lady Love, My Dove05.Dip in the Pool06.Galloping Foxley07.Skin08.Neck09.Nunc Dimittis10.The Landlady11.William and Mary12.The Way up to Heaven13.Parson's Pleasure14.Mrs Bixby and the Colonel's Coat15.Royal Jelly: A Short Story from Roald Dahl's 'Kiss Kiss'16.Edward the Conqueror
Sadly the majority of the book was easily forgettable; probably only 2 stories stuck with me, "taste" and "the way up to heaven".
And "the way up to heaven" because it made me really angry.
Why would he write something so horribly dull and try to stir some controversial agency into a merry and meek set?
I get it Mr Dahl, you got me sir, your play at bad twists are contrivances, the "what do you think" endings, thanks for wasting my time.Best regards, A person who unexpectedly did not enjoy your book.
I read this for one of my book clubs and I admit I went into it with preconceived notions.
I immediately thought I wouldn't like it because other than the two Charlie books, which I greatly enjoyed, I don't like to read Dahl.
But I started to read TotU and thought "wow, interesting!" when I read the first story, Taste.
But this isn't improv (nor should it be) and reading story after story of this (as opposed to a one off story in a periodical for which each story seemed to be originally intended) grew tiresome and I didn't finish.
