https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/126185.The_Christmas_Train
It is one of my annual reads at this time of year and I hope it can be added to a holiday TBR list for others as well.Baldacci brings his readers a holiday classic sure to stoke the fires of the heart and keep the holiday season on track.
When someone from his past appears on the journey alongside him, Langdon discovers true meaning of the holidays and how the heart is the best guide on any of life’s trips.
I have read this book many time before and love it each time, finding some new aspect to cherish.
It took me a little while to get into this book, but once I did I enjoyed it.
It is a gently humorous story about journalist and ex war correspondent Tom Langdon who finds himself on a train trip from Washington to Los Angeles.
As we all know, things do not always go according to plan in life.
But if you just want a light hearted, feel good story, then this could be the go for you.
It still didn’t make me want to go on a long train trip though.
The best explanation for this book is that his teenaged niece wrote it and he published it under his own name.
As far as characters go, I guess Tom was my favorite only because he was fleshed out more than most, which isn't saying much.
All the other characters were so cliche, and the story so formulaic, that it was hard to control the gag factor.
I found it interesting, however, that Tom seemed disappointed that the train experience wasn't playing out like the classic movie - yet, that's exactly what the author seemed to be aiming for.
All in all, I found the story and the writing very amateurish and disappointing.
★★★I've seen David Baldacci's name everywhere lately so I figure it's time to give in to all the hard work these marketing folks are doing. Having never read a Baldacci novel before, I picked The Christmas Train since I watched the Hallmark move about 10 times last Christmas. It's OK, ten times isn't excessive. It only aired about 200 times. Now that's excessive. The Christmas Train was an interesting and feel-good story. It has humor, mystery, and a second-chance romance, all set during a snowy
★★★½I've seen David Baldacci's name everywhere lately so I figure it's time to give in to all the hard work these marketing folks are doing.
Having never read a Baldacci novel before, I picked The Christmas Train since I watched the Hallmark move about 10 times last Christmas.
It's OK, ten times isn't excessive.
Now that's excessive.
The Christmas Train was an interesting and feel-good story.
Baldacci makes you feel the whimsical, simple, nostalgic, social, and very American history of train voyages.
Just for a little while?”Note: The Hallmark adaptation of The Christmas Train actually follows the novel fairly well.
Such a fun and endearing Christmas book. My full review will be on my booktube channel at http://Youtube.com/peterlikesbooks
"It's been my experience that most folks who ride trains could care less where they're going.
For them it's the journey itself and the people they meet along the way .
nuggets of interesting bits of history and train lore woven in, a bit of mystery and serendipitous romance, makes this an all around fun read.
Only with faith, you get back a lot more."Anyway, all things considered, mixed message or not, it was an overall enjoyable read.
So thanks for the train ride, kind sir.
Merry Christmas!THREE PLUS *** Fun, Festive, and Feisty - Holiday Season *** STARS
You have to look long and hard for that mystery, though, and I would put this book squarely in seasonal fiction instead.
Yes, of course it has the requisite "happy ending" but what would a The Christmas TrainThe Christmas Trainholiday book be without one?What I loved most about the book was the train - its story, its history, its life.
Regardless of your feelings toward the holidays and Christmas or if you like Baldacci's regular series of books, I highly recommend The Christmas Train.
It's a fun read, a short book and you will feel better when you are finished.
First, there’s Tom. He’s the hero of the story, and I guess he’s supposed to be some sort of manly man, and he lost the love of his life so you want to sympathize with him, but the man is just an ass.
She’s supposed to be his “soul mate” and yet, when he asks why she left, this logical and rational woman responds with the cliche irrational girl response of “if you don’t know then you’ll never understand.” Ugh. But of course, Tom can’t be single and pining all these years so he also has Leila in his life.
She’s now playing the pet writer to a big shot Hollywood director and they’re looking to write a story about a train.
It was OK, but honestly, I expected more from this book. When I reached the end of the story, it seemed contrived and over-constructed, it lacked the spontaneity, which would have made it a more pleasant read altogether.Still, christmassy and fluffy enough, if you are in need of some short, festive reading.
I have never read a David Baldacci before, so I was completely unfamiliar with his usual style before picking up this book.
However, I have had this story sitting on my Audible shelf for some time after picking it up on sale last year; as such, I felt that it was about time I gave it a listen and, despite a slow start, I found myself enjoying this novel.
My only regret is that I am unlikely to have an opportunity to ride on a train like the ones described in the story.I would likely recommend this audiobook for someone looking for some light reading during this Holiday season.
The Christmas Train by David Baldacci is the story of a somewhat lost Tom Langdon. Tom used to be a war correspondent but he had had enough of war. He now was doing fluff pieces but still, going from place to place, never fully content. Tom had been dating a Hollywood voice over actress for about 3 years off and on in a long distance sort of relationship. So, it was almost Christmas and he needed to get from Washington D.C. to Los Angeles to spend the Holiday with his girlfriend. He wasn’t allo
The Christmas Train by David Baldacci is the story of a somewhat lost Tom Langdon.
“Tom wasn’t going abroad, but in many ways he felt like a pilgrim traveler in his own country, because, ironically, he’d seen far more of the rest of the world than he had of America.” “You don’t take a train because you want to get somewhere fast.
I’ve never gone on a train trip and this book made me want to experience it.
So, all in all, it was a sweet, Christmas story, but just an ok read.
Good Christmas read that took place on a cross-country train trip from Washington DC to Los Angeles. It had fun settings, train facts and interesting characters. The audio book had some great sound effects which added to the mood. There is something enchanting about a train ride experience. The ending was unexpected but overall a quick and enjoyable read.
Author David Baldacci tells this delightful story about a journalist who travels by train across America to reach his destination in time for Christmas. Through the eyes of journalist Tom Langdon, we are introduced to distinct and colourful characters who make his trip an adventure to remember—for better or for worse. An entertaining read for the season!
This is a book I'd never read more than once, but it's a dazzling, festive and entertaining little Christmas story. And since it's July that I'm posting my review, it's Christmas in July! :P
I have never read anything by this author and after this one, I may never again.After reading the synopsis I was not expecting or requiring great literature, but found this so trite and predictable and the characters, while not unlikeable, just too lightweight to hold my interest.The premise was nice - a writer taking a train cross country at Christmas and all of the "fascinating people he encounters." My reading has gotten me used to more substantial stuff and I couldn't even finish this one.
I truly tried, mainly because I bought it and if I bought a book, the frugal side of me says I must finish it.
Holy fucking shite! I made it to chapter two. Just. In this chap’s bio it states he has been writing since childhood. This must therefore, be that first attempt at literature. It might explain why it is so appallingly bad. Not just bad, utter, utter shite. Plenty of people seem to like his stuff though, maybe I should try one which he had published after his fifth birthday? I’ve stated that life is too short to read poor quality literature. Christmas is far shorter. Onward (and hopefully) upward.
Although I checked this book out in December, I finally got around to reading it, and I'm so glad I did! I love trains although I haven't been on anything other than a short ride for over 50 years. It made me want to take a train ride somewhere! The characters were well developed and there are some very interesting people! The storyline was engaging and I loved the twist at the end!
Every Christmas for the past six years I have read The Christmas Train by David Baldacci.
I love this story, it never disappoints and at 260 pages it is a quick read.
After a “misunderstanding” at airport security he is forced to travel from Washington DC to Los Angeles by train this Christmas.
As it is coming up to Christmas when this story starts the festive atmosphere is unmistakable.
I just love the ending which, when I read it for the first time, was so unexpected.
First published in 2002 this story stands the test of time and is a classic Christmas tale.
Tom Langdon is a war correspondent who has decided to take a train cross country from Washington DC to California to spend the Christmas holidays with his girlfriend.
During this adventurous excursion, he meets a cast of eclectic characters that make the journey memorable and exciting.
When the folks aboard the Amtrak come together to make holiday wishes come true, this might just prove to be a Christmas Tom won’t soon forget.I’ve never read a novel by David Baldacci before, so The Christmas Train was my first encounter with this author.
The Christmas Train has an eclectic cast of characters that each play a vital role in bringing this story to life.
Tom Langdon is an investigative reporter who is traveling by train for Christmas to write a story about traveling by train during the holidays.
When his ex-girlfriend and love of his life Eleanor ends up on the same train he is on, things get pretty crazy as they used to be a fling.
Read on and find out for yourself.This was a pretty good Christmas story from David Baldacci that I read for my Christmas in July book.
It is a feel good story about love, forgiveness, and second chances.
If you enjoy Christmas stories, definitely give this a read.
It's a very uplifting book especially around Christmas.
Tom Langdon is an investigative reporter who decide's to take the train to LA to see his girlfriend for Christmas.
Especially when they left each other on bad terms.
Eleanor is a writer for a big movie director, Max Powers who is doing research for a train movie and decide's to pair the two up to make notes for his movie.
Does Max have other things in mind for this couple?The book is filled with twists and turns, a wedding, actress's, and kind train workers.
I really enjoyed reading this story. Not your typical David Baldacci book. Tom Langdon sets off on a cross-country train trip at Washington, D.C. and plans to arrive in L.A. for Christmas. Having reached middle age, it is time to do some soul-searching and rethinking of life goals, and what better place than the peaceful journey a train can provide. It had everything, adventure,humor, romance, surprises, and a mystery along the way. If you never read this book, and want a nice- warm Christmas story- you won't be disappointed!
Only realized I had read this way back in the day after watching the cheesy as hell Hallmark movie over Thanksgiving. Figured I should probably add it. David Baldacci not my cup of tea, but I do kind of want to take a cross country train trip.
Pretty good Christmas story. A little unrealistic but Christmas magic explains it, the are even a few surprises which was nice.

This was a fun book and a nice holiday read. It reminded me that the season is about connecting with people, which is done on the train trip described. I did not see the end coming, which was what I would expect from this author. The rest of the book was surprisingly sentimental, which I would not have expected from him. But that was a nice surprise. Overall, an enjoyable book.
So he decides to travel to LA aboard the trains and craziness ensues.Rich in detail and laughter, I believe anyone who picks up this book with fall in love with it!Enjoy!~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Reread - 12.5.2011STILL love this book!!!
It was a little different this time as I listened to it on audiobook [Tim Matheson is a GREAT narrator] and I had to come up with questions for our book club [as my Mom is not on Facebook].
Which made me realize that THIS is a really, really great read and a fun Christmas story.
I will forever enjoy this story!!
Ex war correspondent and journalist Tom Langdon decided to travel from Washington DC to Los Angeles by train, to arrive in time for Christmas.
It was a long journey, and involved changing trains on one occasion, but he wanted to fulfil his father’s wishes, and do something that, according to legend, Mark Twain had set out to do, but didn’t complete!
Tom’s story of his old flame from his war correspondent days, Eleanor Gibson, also featured…This absolutely delightful tale had a little of everything…mystery, crime, intrigue, danger, and of course, the miracles of Christmas.
I quit.
Page 23 and I'm throwing in the towel.
I guess if there is to be a "Christmas miracle" in the book, the nasty snark turns into happy love for all mankind, but it just really grates my cheese reading the nastiness.
I want to wash my brain I feel so icky right now.I may be reading it completely wrong, but that's the impression I'm getting from what I've read of this book.
Other people may get something else out of it and good for them, I'm glad someone can enjoy this book.
I'm just not one of those people.
