https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/179462.Kissing_Kin
There's a lot of time covered in this one and I noticed that more of the relationships are actually away from the original Day/Sprague branch of the family, more of their friends and acquaintances, but they are still well-drawn enough that I felt a connection and an interest in how things played out.
Always remember that." - Aunt Sally Rating: 4 starsAs the Williamsburg series reaches its fifth book, Thane’s characters (old and new) spend more time abroad than they do in America, right in the thick of the Great War and the fragile years of peacetime that follow.
318: "Always remember that happiness and love need not die till you do - life renews itself if you allow it ot, as surely as the year comes back round to spring after winter.
Some years are not so good as others - sometimes you love less, sometimes more...and you can never be sure that the best is not still to come." p.
No man can love a stingy woman, not forever.
It is no disgrace to be humble when you love a man - nor to be grateful to him that he loves you.
It is no one's birthright to be loved - so never take it for granted.
Like the other Williamsburg novels in the series-this is the 5th-there is a basic formula of family activities followed by main characters falling in love amid the back drop of war.
While this plot device may get old the fact that Elswyth Thane is a very good writer saves the day.
Her novels are well researched and her characters are very believeable.
Besides Williamsburg, the settings of this novel include London, France and Germany during the First World War. There is a surprising ending to this novel with a well crafted plot that keeps the reader thorougly involved in the story.
To understand just how the various characters fit into the family, it is best to read this series in order; therefore the rest of this review is hidden, to avoid spoilers.(view spoiler)[With the war raging in Europe, the twins Camilla and Calvert Scott are desperate to do their part, but America has yet to enter the war.
This is really Camilla's story, as she tries to find just what she is meant to do with her life, after she falls in love with the wrong man.
The characters are well-rounded and the historic background is extremely detailed, making this an excellent story.
This book in the Williamsburg series is set in WWi, and primarily in England, featuring members of the Campion, Day and Sprague families.As is perhaps understandable, given the time it was written and the time it is set, there is a lot of vitriolic anti-German sentiment, which can get a little tedious.However, the love stories are enjoyable.
I am reading this series as a lover of historic fiction. This one had entirely too much star-crossed lovers for my taste, but the description of the rise of Nazism in Germany was very ell done.
Only two left to read in this Williamsburg series. I do enjoy them very much.
I recently rediscovered this favorite from my teenage years--I recall that we read the covers off the copy our family owned--on the shelves of the local library, which is nice because it was published in 1948, and I'm pretty sure it's out of print nowadays.
The terms of endearment that were so romantic between lovers 70 years ago sound, well, a little silly in 2010.
Plus, I'm not a history lover, so the more technical parts didn't really appeal to me.
This continues the saga of the British born saga of the Williamsburg family line.
This takes place mostly in Europe during the closing years of WWI.
Phoebe falls in love American flyer boy who goes missing behind German lines.
Twins, Calvert and Camilla sail to England from America mostly Camilla is bored and can't think of what to do with her life while Calvert strafing at the U.S. delay of getting into the war decides to join in Canada.
Against this background of catastrophe and recovery as the war ends, Elwyth's characters attempt to find happiness, hope, fear, fall in love.
Definitely my least favourite of the series (that is, of the first 5 the rest are not translated into Danish).
Camilla is a weak heroine that never manages to grap my sympathy.
I like Jenny and her story better, but the heros all fall flat.
Calvert is far too easy-going, Raymond is a proud idiot, Sosthene too flimsy to get a hold on and Johnny too old.
He has been there through three books and courted three different women down through the decades, so not even his happy ending can awake any feelings in me.
It gets three stars from sheer nostalgia.
Set during WWI and the period following. Camilla falls hopelessly in love with Sosthene, the gentle Frenchman who is her older cousin Sally Sprague's lover. They are sure that Life will reward them both for their patience and their unflinching loyalty, but fate takes an unexpected turn. There is another ill-fated romance between Raymond, Camilla and Calvert's friend, and Jennie, Duke Apethorpe's daughter. My favorite of all the Williamsburg series: the most romantic and the most heartbreaking.
It's probably my least favorite in the series. Camilla as a heroine is wildly unexciting, and I found myself more interested in the romance of Jenny & Raymond who is not related to any of the Williamsburg crew. Maybe also because the first part of the book (WWI) seems like it could just as well have been tucked in with the previous book, and the last part of it (Hitler's Germany) could just as well have been tucked in with the next - and there had been no need for Camilla as a stand-alone heroine.
I read this book as part of the Williamsburg series ages ago and as I've been re-reading them, this book like the last just didn't stand up to snuff.
I loved the first 3 books but I don't really like the characters in the later books.
I loved Jenny's and Raymond's story but that was about it...and I have to admit to doing a lot of skimming this time around.
The thing that's pretty amazing about following this series is that you realize that all the events and wars that in your head seems incredibly far from each other due to history text book units are really quite close.
I read this book as a teenager. My mother joined book of the month club and this was a choice that was in the house for several years. When I finally read it I loved it and read it several times. The fact that Thane's book is still in my mind and heart attests to her ability to write wonderful characters and intriguing stories.
12/2012 ** Though I'm re-reading the series this month, I first read it while in middle & high school. This was my first exposure to the explosion on the Lusitania and the aftermath for the survivors - memorable and led me to choose the topic of the Lusitania for a high school research paper. Reading historical fiction (even highly romanticized versions) can lead to more academic pursuits.
Camilla and Calvert, 23, can't wait for America to enter WWI so travel to England where their lives are turned upside down by war and ill-fated romance. Along with their two closest friends, Raymond, a dedicated airman, humble and self-educated, and Jenny, a Duke's daughter with no airs and graces, the twins face the travails of war far from Williamsburg...
Read between July & December 1984.Original notes on book from 1984: Good book. Must get set and read from beginning.
I loved this series which goes from pre-revolution to 1917 and WWI. Need to read again!!
This is my favorite of the W'burg books. At least so far . . .
Old friends from this series and their descendents lead into the 1930's.(Working from a list of books I read years ago.)
My set of Williamsburg novels are in storage. I can't remember which book this is, but I know I loved them all.
Fifth in E. Thane's Williamsburg series, set in England during dark days in of WWI. Gives a good appreciation of life in war-torn Europe.
