https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/3054673-painting-as-a-pastime
For them discipline in one form or another is the most hopeful path."Churchill goes on to explain why painting was just the hobby for him, someone whose job it was to be "worried to death."A lovely little book, worth reading both for its advice and for its insight into the mind of a great man.P.S. If you ever get a chance to see an exhibit of Churchill's paintings, you'll see that he was quite good at it.
And what was it about the concentrated observation that painting required that could make a man see all of reality, the good and evil, more clearly?
What builds up in you, strong and solid, in those hours of fun and play that can then withstand what the world throws at you?
No, not withstand, because that requires some effort.
More like the strength from care free play is just there, found in you, as if it had been there from the beginning.
13)My mother gave me Winston Churchill's essay/book, Painting as a Pastime, for my birthday.
I liked seeing Churchill from a different perspective and, sometimes, re-envisioning myself.Churchill observed that we are encouraged to do all sorts of things to prevent worry and mental overstrain (p.
Perhaps, he argues, this is especially important for people like him (and me), people whose work is absorbing and satisfying.Churchill sees painting as having all sorts of advantages.
He saw himself differently.Painting as a Pastime ended with eighteen prints of his paintings.
But the joy of life that is inside the pages is more than enough to make it special.Mr. Churchill has brought a smile to my face many a time via his writings.
There are also colour plates of Churchill's paintings, with his blues and purples especially vibrant.
This is also a nice book for a corporate wake-up call, as Churchill broaches the subject of workaholics and the need to have other hobbies to keep the mind engaged but away from the daily grind.
My crayons are waiting for me.Book Season = Year Round (nature as shimmering light)
In the 1965 edition I have, thirty two pages of Painting as a Pastime are from Winston Churchill's pen.
The other pages are from his brush, images of his paintings, which are pretty competent, and are what I'd say are close to the Bloomsbury School.
Churchill's personal nature had him half way there to being a good painter before he ever started picking up the brushes.
Ol' Winston instinctively knew one thing, be decisive with that brush, be confident and stand your ground and don't give up.Painting as a Pastime is eloquently and elegantly written, and in a positive spirit.
One of my favorite little books of the year. As soon as I finished it I started reading it again, looking for my favorite turns of phrases. There is more passion in one of Churchill’s sentences than in whole chapters of others’ writing.
I hesitate to list this short tome as a book read, but it is a powerful meditation on one of life's most significant topics from one of the greatest writers of the 20th century.
But reading this book you'll hear his real voice.
The text ostensibly is about Churchill's late in life discovery of painting as a pastime.
I love my job and life, without question, but I feel I need some outlet to regularly reset beyond what I have access to.
But that there needs to be something -having read this book- I feel no doubt is right.
I have owned this book for a while but was reminded of it in reading a graduation speech. We usually don’t think of Winston Churchill in any field but politics and war. Yet a little known fact is that he was an avid painter, not beginning the hobby until forty years of age, but continuing the rest of his life. In all he painted over 500 canvases, many of which were exhibited at the British Royal Academy. The book is full of quotable sayings (“Nothing makes a man more reverent than a library”).
A man can wear out a particular part of his mind by continually using it and tiring it, just in the same way as he can wear out the elbows of his coat.
There is, however, this difference between the living cells of the brain and inanimate articles: one cannot mend the frayed elbows of a coat by rubbing the sleeves or shoulders; but the tired parts of the mind can be rested and strengthened, mot merely by rest, but by using other parts.
A quick and delightful read that has inspired me to pick up my paints and, interestingly enough, to read more in French.
My favourite quote from the book comes at the beginning when he's talking about reading as a pastime and the benefits of learning a second language though, as he explains, not too many: "The boy learns enough Latin to detest it; enough Greek to pass an examination; enough French to get from Calais to Paris; enough German to exhibit a diploma; enough Spanish or Italian to tell which is which; but not enough of any to secure the enormous boon of access to a second literature.
Simplest book to read, that I am aware of, to push you towards living. Chock full of descriptive cues to grasp, while loving to squeeze tubes of color, spread by breath and turpentine or water, depending on the medium you choose to divulge your senses. Find an hour and immerse yourself into this book. Live!
This is a lovely essay in book form - what a writer he was! Churchill explains how he took up painting in later life, in order to distract himself from the worries of his career. He is humble and charming and completely enamored with painting. The second half of the book is devoted to reproductions of some of his paintings.
A charming read that really could be about anything if the subject were inserted whenever the word painting is mentioned. Truly a wonderful book filled with a soft philosophy that should be the goal of all.
Wonderful little book (some 32 pages only) about a passion Churchill came to only at about 40.
Their life is a natural harmony.” In such a harmony however such people need several different and varied kinds of work that is also brings pleasure to relieve the inevitable stress and anxieties that come with any one, mainly that one that is one’s vocation.
Chur hill’s view was that one needs not just one but two or three such hobbies.He was good at at least that many.
This little volume is followed by color phases of some of his “works” from which he drew so much pleasure.
The colours are lovely to look at and delicious to squeeze out." Visst är det lite svindlande att det är Churchills egna ord.
Trettioåtta passionerade sidor om hur han upptäckte måleriet en bit in i 40-årsåldern och hur det bl.a. har en stressreducerande effekt för den som liksom honom själv måste hantera "exceptional responsibilities".
Inte ett ord om hans black dog, men vi vet ju att den fanns där.
Läste en klassisk orange Penguinutgåva, som kommer med appendix i färg med bilder på 18 av Churchills målningar.
Yes I went for the ‘Oh that looks pretty!’ Instead of the content of the book.
I am so glad I did as the blurb does not do the book justice.
This is the first work I have read by Winston Churchill and I doubt it will be my last if all his writing is to this standard.
This book made me laugh, it made me smile and once I started reading it, I didn’t stop till I had finished.
There are some excellent quotes in this book and the imagery is beautiful.
I enjoyed this book and would highly recommend it.
An enjoyable little work, an essay gleaned from another of Churchill's books. He has interesting reasons for taking up this, or any hobby, and it's easy to see how enjoyable it became for him. Having once been a bricklayer myself, I recalled Churchill's bricklaying hobby but forgot about the painting. However, he speaks passionately about painting and especially, toward the end of the essay, about the many things he learned from taking up the pastime. Approximately half of this exceedingly slender volume is filled with color prints of Churchill's work. It's good work. Pleasing, colorful, pleasant.
What struck me at first when reading this book was the language Churchill uses when describing his painting.
I have been painting as a hobby again recently and found the authors troubles and experiences to be very familiar.
It was inspiring to me to read about his love for color and his joy for finding beauty in simple scenes.
The changes in seeing that happen when you start to paint are truly wonderful, and the author captures that splendidly.
It is a very short, and very powerful book for me.
I am having a little Churchill obsession at the moment and this was a perfect complement to it. Excellent writing and an inspiration to find a hobby. Churchill has some interesting (and perceptive) views on reading itself as a hobby. Those thoughts alone were worth the read.
This small book is very lovely. I love that this details another side of Churchill’s interests. Quick read but a good one.
A great little read. An inspirational read for people who are looking for a hobby later in life. Love Sir Winston Churchill...his writing and philosophy.
What a sweet little book!
I Love this essay! I want to pick up my paints right now and forget about the world!
Somewhat elitist but valid, Churchill's journal of his experiences falling in love with painting are individualized but his passion can be understood and felt nonetheless. This short book offers profound thoughts and beautifully written strings of words on art, learning to see, and the life-changing effects of connecting the eye and hand with the mind.
A charming little book on pursuing hobbies, particularly painting, and its benefits. A quick read, but its charm will stay with you. I do wish my edition had more of his paintings than the one adorning the cover (if that is, in fact, one of his paintings, as the book doesn't make it clear). I've heard the 1965 edition includes some of them within its covers.
He brilliantly tells of his first tentative attempt at painting:So very gingerly I mixed a little blue paint in the palette with a very small brush, and then with infinite precaution made a mark about as big as a bean upon the affronted snow-white shield.
Let me have a brush, the big one.” Splash into the turpentine, wallop into the blue and the white, frantic flourish on the palette, clean no longer, and then several large, fierce strokes and slashes of blue on the absolutely cowering canvas.
Tired?
Stressed out?
Bored?
I cannot imagine a better "self-help" book than this, albeit painting is not my solution.
Read it and learn how to take care of yourself.p. 7.
but the tired parts of the mind can be rested and strengthened, not merely by rest, but by using other parts.p. 12 - 13.
. For them discipline in one form or another is the most hopeful path.p. 31.
Yet there will stretch out before you an ever-lengthening, ever-ascending, ever-improving path.
But this, so far from discouraging, only adds the joy and glory of the climb.The forty-sixth book I have finished this year.
As busy as he was, Churchill made a very compelling case on what one can achieve in art with his wonderful landscape works.
I can attest that, at least, since I started to draw and occasionally paint, my insomnia has never come back.
Well, he might have been too busy and too well-read due to his upbringing, but I’d like to keep reading.
I even venture to say that we all do--that’s how we come here and how we have got his messages.
Do not be content until you find yourself reading it with real enjoyment." Later we learn that "painting is a friend who makes no undue demands, excited to no exhausting pursuits, keeps faithful pace even with feeble steps, and holds her canvas as a screen between us and the envious eyes of Time or the surly advance of Decrepitude." Of his love of color: "When I get to heaven I mean to spend a considerable portion of my first million years in painting....But then it shall require a still gayer palette than I get here below.
The book consists of a 25-page essay on painting as a hobby, followed by 18 lovely plates of Churchill's paintings.
In the opening essay, Churchill argues that a hobby or pastime that uses the same part of the brain used in your work is not restful.
Painting, thereore, is ideal for anyone whose daily routine involves heavy thinking.
Churchill himself took up painting as an adult and he urges others to do the same.
His exceptional mastery of the English language, along with his great wit, make this little book a laugh-out-loud and inspiring read.I think I'll go try to paint the beach umbrellas now.
Painting as a Pastime (Malování jako kratochvíle) je krátká a krásná knížka, kterou napsal, světe div se, Winston Churchill.
Sám malbě propadl až ve středním věku, ale jako umělec měl úspěch.
Churchillův motiv a zároveň klíčový argument této knižní eseje je prostý: Profesionál, který dělá náročnou stresující práci, by si měl pěstovat nějakou kratochvíli, která jeho mysl odvede od denních strastí do lůna přírody a zároveň se dá provozovat do pozdního věku.
Líbí se mi nejen, jak Churchill maloval, ale zejména jak malování popsal.
Upřímně mě to motivovalo se opět k malbě po letech vrátit.
