https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/201345.Martin_the_Warrior
If you like medieval-type fantasy adventure stories, I cannot recommend the Redwall series enough.
I know it's about talking animals, but it's seriously something adults would love as well!
The whole world is so wonderfully detailed and complex.
The stories get pretty emotional - I definitely teared up at a lot of battle scenes/deaths in middle school.
They're pretty epic.
The books were published in a different order than the stories take place, so you can read most of them in any order!
Like there's a clear history to the world, but it doesn't matter too much.
The stories take place in lots of different areas, too.
One of the things I came across when I was young and completely obsessed with Redwall was a quote from Brian Jacques, in the introduction to 'Redwall Friend and Foe' where he stated, emphatically, "Goodies are good!" I can't help thinking about that when I think about this book, because here's the thing: while on its surface Redwall can look like a series with black and white morality, where certain people are good and others are bad, the stories themselves often overturn those expectations, and none do it quite as powerfully as Martin the Warrior, story of the Abbey's legendary champion before he arrived in Mossflower Wood.Martin isn't a bad person, but what he is isn't precisely 'good' either.
I think I will just find a blankie, and a corner to cry my heart out in.
Martin the Warrior is probably one of the best Redwall books.
Martin the Warrior has everything; it has the drama, the sadness, the love and hate of The Lord of the Rings.
I was first introduced to the animated series, and impressed by the line they added, which, surprisingly, was not in the book;We fight for freedom, not revenge.
In the cartoon, he still says "That was an oath of vengeance, not a goodbye," and "Felldoh used to be my hero, but I don't know him anymore," but the left out the powerful part of the conversation that followed:"Felldoh is a warrior.
I remember that I found the books getting a bit repetitive as the series went on (and on, and on) but Martin the Warrior was the first I read, and it’s obvious why it hooked me as a kid.
It’s a little bit deterministic — rats are evil, mice are good, shrews are quarrelsome, etc — but I know that’s tackled a little in later books with characters like Veil.
I’m sure I’d like Grumm or Polleekin’s cooking…Martin the Warrior ends on a sour, sad note.
This was the book that got me into fantasy, and fill in love with reading.
My teacher in grade school loved the story, and all my friends read the series.
This is my favorite book of the Redwall series.
This origin story really shows how he came from nothing into the one of the greatest leaders and warrior in the land.
The ending of the book is the cause and origins of Redwall.
Without it, Redwall would have never existed.
So this is the foundation book in the series.P.S. I have read this book more times than I can count.
This was extremely well written and entertaining. I enjoyed it vastly.
For nearly four hundred pages in "Martin the Warrior" we the readers follow on an action-packed, tightly written adventure novel, leading onward through surprising twists and turns that left me, personally, breathless and with a pounding heart.
The world of Redwall is as perfect as the creation of a literary world can get, and when one thinks that the author could not possibly jam in any more exciting adventure, one will look at the page and see that he is less than halfway through reading the book!
The feeling and perspective of "Martin the Warrior" will resound loudly with the reader long after the final page has been completed.
Adventure, love, courage, tears, humor, the Brain Jacques-experience.The story itself, without spoiling too much, focuses on Martin son of Luke the Warrior, and his struggle against the tyrant Badrang and sea captain, Clogg.
Together with the fierce Rose of Noonvale among other companions, Martin must go on a daring adventure to take back his father's sword, and the freedom of Badrang's slaves.Like all of the other Redwall books, the entire cast is made up of animals who can speak and cook and fight from fortresses and ships.
Like it's fellow books in the series, this book is filled with adventure and laughs and even some love.
These books are Chicken Soup For The Anthropomorphic-Animal-Loving Soul and I could not get enough of them.
Still comfortable nostalgia reads!
Knowing his legacy ups the poignancy factor of seeing him here, at the beginning of his journey.(view spoiler)[(All right, technically this book about talking rodents still managed to turn up for the Women Mousemaidens In Refrigerators trope and now that I'm all growed up I know I should feel some kind of way about that...but tbh I feel like my overriding concern here is Man, I can't believe Brian Jacques made me ship two mice.
) (hide spoiler)]
This was an excellent book to read over the Thanksgiving weekend.
The first two are elements in all of the Redwall series.
For those unfamiliar with Brian Jacques, he writes an of an animal based world that brings memories of Narnia or Watership Down.
Martin the Warrior is the sixth book written but I believe the second one if you are to read them chronologically.
This one, like all of his books, is what a children's story should be.
For those who have kids that enjoy children's series like Narnia, Harry Potter, or Percy Jackson then I would strongly recommend Redwall.
This wasn't bad, but like much of the historical Redwall books I felt like this was just a bit of filler, retreading many of the same beats from previous books.
It’s focused (no random sideplots that have nothing to do with the main one), it has a lot of characters but doesn’t jump between them too much a la Salamandastron, it has unique features that depart from the formulas of previous books, and the ending is simply fantastic (but also sad).And the number one reason why this book is so great is:(view spoiler)[ROSE!!
He’s also the only villain to (view spoiler)[not die at the end of a book.
I couldn’t stand him, but that’s just me.Overall, Martin the Warrior is the best book in the Redwall series.
Like many, I grew up adoring the Redwall series, so it pains me to give this two stars now.This past summer I found my collection of Redwall books — I have the first dozen — and chose to reread this one because it was, in my opinion at the time, the best of them.And frankly, it isn't all that great.The writing itself is depressingly mediocre, the plot (like all of them) meandering and predictable.
As a kid, this made the good guys seem clever and fun-loving, but as an adult all I can think is that the villains are so incredibly dim-witted (to the point of possibly diagnosable cognitive impairment) that the insults and pranks come off as cruel and bullying, an interminable barrage of low-risk cheap shots.
Martin the Warrior by Brian JacquesI had been pretty burnt out on the Redwall books after Mossflower, Mattimeo, and Salamandastron.
Redwall was a creative and fun book, but it seemed that all its successors were progressively formulaic and uncreative.
Escaping with a small group of captives, and washing up on an unknown shore, Martin attempts to return a mousemaid named Rose to her family at Noonvale and build an army to return and challenge Badrang.Jacques still uses his familiar formula from the previous books, but by not feeling the need to set the book near Redwall Abbey it becomes more of a novel adventure and a great fantasy yarn.
If someone wanted to read just one of the Redwall books, I think that I would recommend Martin the Warrior above the original.5/5 stars.
Excellent stuff!
We will be reading more of the Redwall books.
The cast for the audio version was excellent with the bulk of it being read by the author himself (always a treat), plus a whole crew of talented actors.Martin is brave, strong and everything a hero should be.
The bad guys are really bad.
We accomplish so much "reading" this way!P.S. One comment from one of the kids, "Listening to this book always makes me hungry!"Note: Listened to this one again in 2012.
Brian Jacques reads this and the cast is amazing.
Wish all of them had been read this way!
By far the BEST book in the Redwall seiries.
Martin is amazing.
I listened to the tape when i first heard it but if i had read it i would not have been able to put it down!
really great story.
i loved it.
Rose is really cool also.
Really amazing book.
Martin is really cool.
You really have to have a certain taste for Brian Jaques style, but most people would like it.
The tapes are very good.
Brian jaques narrates it.
His brother plays Martin.
i don't know who Plays rose.
The previously untold story of Martin the Warrior's travels before coming to the forest of Mossflower to found Redwall Abbey. He vows revenge on the vermin warlord of a fortress, and also to free the miserable slaves who have dwelt there for uncounted years. Formulaic, in the tradition of all the Redwall books, but enjoyable nonetheless. It's always fun to read about your mouse heroes facing an army and defeating them, using the skills of moles, squirrels, birds, badgers, otters, and all the good creatures of the forest.
The story is pretty thin and the there are a lot of boring parts. I hate that every meal needed to be described in excruciating detail - although it did add to the immersion of the world. Martin the Warrior was cooler when he was just a legend shrouded in mystery.
Also a great read! Really Good Book!
They then train the slaves so they soon will be able to recapture their land from Badrang and his forces.Rose, Martin, and Grumm find themselves on a beach far south of their friends.They soon reattempt their journey to Rose's village in order to enlist the help of the surrounding creatures to free all the slaves.
With the help of the GUOSIM shrews and other creatures they are able to form an army capable of retaking the land controlled by Badrang.
I had started Jacques' series years ago as a 12 or 10-year-old, and liked it then, but even then it was a little too easy for the characters, a little too simple-minded for me.Now it is even moreso since I'm an adult, however...this book does what it sets out to do.
From Ballaw the magical hare to Rose the sweet mouse maiden to Martin, the vengeful, noble, and brave, fierce warrior of the book's title...this book will keep you reading, at least for its characters.I gave it 4 stars because it is a very well-done book for children ages 8-10.
The reason it's missing a 5th star is because I believe even a children's book should have its characters undergo hardships.
He lives in a world were all "unworthy" animals are slaved to an animal overlord.
Martin, like all of the other slaves hated this overlord and all of his followers.
It is Martin's quest to escape his slavery with as many other animals as he can, and defeat the evil overlord.
There are many external conflicts in this book.
the overlord or one of his followers.
the fox slave keeper.
The fox slave keeper is the one who is constantly challenging Martin.
I would rate this book two stars because it was very boring to read.
It is fantasy because animals are talking.The main characters are Redwall, Martin, Grumm, Captin Tramun, and Rose.
Grumm is a wise mouse and can try to act funny and heroic.Rose is Martin's sister and she is heroic too.
Captin Tramun is the bad guy they run into him and he has a bunch of scars.
They go to a bunch of places during the story like Marshank, Northwest coast, Inlet, Noonvale, Boldred's Tunnel.
I didn't like that someone got killed on Redwall's side.
I liked that the author made me shocked at sometimes and made me really sad.
I mean, I'm rarely one to be overly focused on poor writing if there are some redeeming features (a good plot will allow me to excuse bad style), but Brian Jacques isn't a very good writer.
I know children's books are very often clunky as all hell, but that's not good enough.
Clunky writing, formulaic plot.
(seriously, do any Redwall books barring The Long Patrol have a different plot arc?
Even then, it's the same story but from a different point...) Stereotypical villains with less in the brain tank than...
Spoilers ahead!This one was always my least favorite Redwall novel growing up largely because of its bittersweet ending (But it was still a Redwall book so I still really liked it).
Martin is an awesome character and the mythos surrounding him is a driving force throughout the series.
I really enjoy the novels that focus on him and his past.
Plus I've always enjoyed books that feature the little guy fighting back against an impossible foe.
A big reason why I didn't like this book that much was because of the fate of Rose.
I tend to admire the other more warior-like female characters like Roanoke.
How does one even begin to relate this epic tail without making this sound like every other Redwall tale?
Martin the Warrior is the sixth installment in the Redwall series and mainly focuses on Martin and his story of becoming the renown warrior we have all heard epic tails about.
There is a little adventuring in the story but the main focus of this tale is the battle of Marshank.
Not all is black & white in this adventure as it has a really nice mix of good vs bad in this story.
I started reading this book and decided that the audiobook would be better because of the strange accents.
I absolutely detest reading dialogue with accents because it slows me down.
So the audiobook was better in that regard, but evidently I'm not a Brian Jacques fan.
I know he's popular and a genius with animal fantasies, but I wasn't entertained.
The full cast production was entertaining, but I'm just not sure why I couldn't wait for the book to end.
There have been animal fantasies that I have loved--Fire Bringer by David Clement-Davies is the first one that comes to mind.
I'm giving all these books a 4, because they basically GOT me hooked on fantasy I think. I read all of these in elementary school, and still have fond memories floating around. The rad legendary weapons, (with the channels etched in for blood flow, which i found super hardcore). The foods, the booze, honey mead and apple wine or whatever. Come to think of it, these books might also be a little responsible for my alcoholism, too.i remember this one being one of the best though. Martin is a badass for sure.
This Redwall books was especially wonderful, for me, because it was so atypical. It just wasn't like the rest of them. In fact, I must say that, as the series grew larger, I found that I liked the books that occured in distant lands better than the ones near Redwall, because the ones by the abbey were sometimes slightly redundant.Anyway, this particular book was awesome. And I punched a guy over it. I think it was the first time I punched someone outside of my family too, so it is extra awesome.
