https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/132900.The_Happiest_Baby_on_the_Block
Let me preface my review by acknowledging that the tips and tricks described in this book will probably be of great use in calming my baby when I have a newborn.
And, if this book were, say, a seven-page article in a magazine, I would rip it out, keep it for reference, and recommend it to friends.
It holds dem wery good." In case you missed that she is a Russian immigrant, the author makes sure to underline "dat," "willage," "dem," and "wery" so that you, the reader, can't miss it.
5 steps done in sequence to calm a baby and simulate life in the womb: Swaddling (firmly), Side/Stomach, Ssshhhing, Swaying, Sucking.
Only after your screaming baby pauses for a few moments can you gradually slow your motion, soften your shushing and guide them from frenzy to soft landing.The best colic-calmers say that soothing an infant is like dancing with them in the lead.
These talented people pay close attention to the vigor of ther 5 "S's"p.1251st S- SwaddlingThis TURNS on the calming effect by stopping the Moro reflex (hand jerking/flailing) that helps them to pay attention to the other S's.2nd S-Side/StomachLay your child on their side or place them in your arms on their stomach.
Wow, 5 Ss. That's inventive.4 years of medical school and better than 4th grade writing skills can generate a book like this.
Have someone fill in the sources and make the book run a bit over 100 pages.
The fact that Americans (including myself) are looking for instructions allows tripe like this onto the bookshelf to sell millions of copies.
It's also why serious literary talent like Mark Leyner will probably never write a postmodernist masterpiece like Tetherballs at Bougainville again: because his medical book, Why Do Men Have Nipples, coauthored with another MD (Billy Goldberg) sold more copies than all of his real masterpieces combined.
There's quite a bit of filler in this, I think it could have been about half the length or less, and the publisher was looking for an excuse to charge the full 12.95 or whatever a book costs nowadays.
That said, THIS BOOK IS MAGICAL.
There be magic in them words, and while I'm up at 1am writing this review, my baby is quiet, if not asleep enough to lay down on her own.
I'd be ripping my hair out instead of writing this if it weren't for the wonderful wizard Dr. Karp.Three cheers, and 4 stars only because of the filler.
Hopefully the techniques are more effective than the style  There's a lot of unnecessary fluff trying to convince you of the 'calming reflex' and the 'fourth trimester' idea. Skip the first 75 pages.  VERY repetitive (how many times must he remind us that "he had this type of stimulation 24 hours a day IN the womb, what you're doing now is a big decrease"?--apparently, this is written in the context of a society that is afraid of spoiling 3 month-olds by soothing them, which was news to me.  Off
Hopefully the techniques are more effective than the style  There's a lot of unnecessary fluff trying to convince you of the 'calming reflex' and the 'fourth trimester' idea.
Off-putting overly enthusiastic and conversational (in the motivational speaker sort of way) style, but probably like many of these mothery books 
But HOPEfully, the strategies and techniques work (that's why I'm not giving it a 0.5), but I wouldn't discourage you from getting the meat of the book from another source and skip the read.
After I endured the text, I've marked the relevant pages so I can convert the book to a more palatable (and concise) reference.
All right, there really are nuggets of good advice hidden in mounds of dirt in this book.
My baby isn't colicky but using this advice helped him (and us) sleep much, much better at night, and calms him down when need be.
I read the good sections when our baby was 3 1/2 weeks old and I wish I'd read it 4 weeks earlier.
For example, our baby doesn't like the side-hold recommended by this book - I just replace that 'S' with one of his two favorite ways to be held.
This book is an absolute parenting essential.
It's the closest thing to magic I have encountered during my brief time as a parent!We used the techniques in this book almost every day for the first 4 months of our child's life.
I wold strongly recommend reading it before you give birth - we actually used the entire technique our first night home from the hospital.The book really, truly works.
I know a DVD is available too, but I would say read the book as well because it really gets into the science of sleep and infant development.
The basic points are good - and they work. But, the book is amazingly boring.
Rather than read it, I suggest one just skip to page 126-127 and copy the 5 S techniques as they are briefly described.
Karp definitely knew that this idea couldn't justify a book length volume, but that didn't stop him from writing one.
I'd say you'll read the same information (sometimes verbatim) every 20 pages or so.
Before any information, you'll have about 5 pages of "you are about to learn..." or "in Chapter 13 you will learn..." God this is awfully written!
Plus, he uses exclamation points like a fourth grader: way more often than could be logically justified!
This is one of those books that is gold... but very brief gold. Here is the failure of the modern book industry. The book should be about 40 pages, and it would be worth paying $10 or even $14. But no one thinks that brief advice could possibly be worth that much, so it's got filler. Whatever. Read the intro and a couple chapters. It'll save your life if you're a new parent. Plus, as a new parent, you only have time for a few chapters. Take it and read, the advice herein is great--it works!
Honestly, no offense to this book’s feelings, but it should have been a pamphlet instead.

I have to read this book to be certified in the curriculum for my job with Prevent Child Abuse Illinois, and normally I wouldn't put this type of thing on a personal book list, but it's so great!
It talks of the "5 S's to Stop a Crying Baby"- swaddle, side/stomach position, shushing, swinging, and sucking!
And I have the DVDs for the whole curriculum, which is amazing!
(And if you are interested and have a baby, and live in IL, let me know or go to Prevent Child Abuse Illinois' website....later this fall, I will be able to teach the curriculum for free!)
How can I say this?... If you want to never hear your baby cry for longer than 5 seconds and have them sleep through the night for their first three months, read this book and get the instructional DVD. I read it twice and perfected the technique before my baby boy was born and I seriously LOVED having a newborn and NEVER felt like I couldn't console him. It worked EVERY TIME. I really don't know how people do it without knowing this technique. It's a must for every mom.
Anne adaylarinin ve taze annelerin isine yarayacak,huzursuz bebeklerini sakinlestirebilmeleri icin 5 temel prensipten tekrar ve tekrar!! bahseden bir kitap.Ancak henuz dogum yapmadan okunmasi tavsiyem.Kolik ne degildire de vurgu yapiyor Karp.Mahallenin en mutlu bebegine sahip olmaniz mumkun mu bilmiyorum ama bebeklerle dair ozellikle yenidoganlara dair yararli bilgiler edineceginizden suphem yok.
Agreed with other reviewers that the book is overly wordy, though Dr. Karp's method is highly effective and has saved my sanity as a first-time mother, especially during the early weeks when I did not know how to soothe my little booger.
Illuminating and inspiring!
It is regrettable that we didn't learn how to soothe the baby in this way until he was about 12 weeks or so.
It literally is a miracle to watch it happen.
It feels unbelievable to have the power to instantly calm your hysterical baby.
I managed to find time to read the book, and it does have a few more tidbits of info the dvd (aka crash course for busy parents) didn't have.
So it's worth your time to read it even if you watch the dvd.
But my advice to parents is first watch the dvd.
Really people, why do we always forget? There is such a thing called mothers instinct, and books like these make it seem as if it is something we made up. "when you do this, baby will do this", and etc, no no! Not all babies are the same, and no, they do not react in the same way! there are some good tips here, but mostly it repeats on the same thing over and over. As soon as my baby was born, I realized this book did nothing for me. Reality is always much better!
Only regret is that I didn't read it before our son was born. Worked wonders. So glad we Gave swaddling another try! He's two now, but we still use white noise.
A must read that saved us and Rhett!
Haven’t had to use the ideas behind this book yet but it makes a lot of sense and is very easy to read. Really hoping it works! The major drawback is this would be better in a 20 page book instead of 200. Very repetitive and lots of stories that are unnecessary.
The fourth trimester philosophy mashes a lot of sense to me and I have high hopes for the 5 Ss. However, I do agree with other reviewers that the book was padded. It was longer than necessary and even repeated itself, which annoyed me. Still, I'll be trying the techniques!
As a first time mom the content in this book was SO helpful at understanding newborns and how to care for them.
Everything I have tried from the book so far has worked beautifully with my son.
As a book, it was very repetitive and there was a lot of filler material.
I didn’t mind it as much because the repetition helped me remember key points but this easily could have been a long blog post or article in The Atlantic rather than an entire book.
I did appreciate all of the references and time taken to explain the scientific reasoning behind his suggestions though.
The five steps the author shares in this book make sense to me, but don't know if I buy into his whole "fourth trimester" theory. I did find the advice of shhhhing loudly because that's what babies are used to interesting. We'll see how it works in real life in a few weeks!
Really helpful tips. I finished this book just in time for my first child’s birth. Let’s see if I can apply them.
The information is great, but the author droned on and on and repeated the same things over and over to the point where I skipped some paragraphs so I didn't have to reread identical sentences.We're using the 5 S's and they are working effectively! Our baby obviously cries, but we have been able to comfort him and limit his screaming so we can stay sane and he can stay happy. It's a win-win for both of us.
İlk olarak Mahallenin En Mutlu Yumurcağı kitabını okuyup çoğu zaman işe yarar tavsiyelerini gördükten sonra ilk aylarını gazsız nazsız sıkıntısız atlattığım oğluma zıt olarak tam bir kolik olan kızımla birlikte bu kitabı da okumaya karar verdim.
Sarmalama tekniği, diğer pratik bilgiler ve özellikle son bölümdeki ebeveynlere tavsiyeler gerçekten işe yarar, bilgilendirici ve ilham verici.
Evet, sarmalama tekniği kitabın en önemli noktası olabilir ama bu kadar çok tekrar etmesi bir noktadan sonra sıkıcı olmuş.
Ayrıca küçük çocuğu olan ebeveynlerin zamanlarının ne kadar kıymetli olduğu düşünülürse bu durum itici olmuş.
Yine de hiçbir noktayı atlamadan okudum ve anne baba olmayı düşünen ve küçük bebeği olan anne babaların okumasını şiddetle tavsiye ederim.
I am noticing a common problem: the author has a good or even great idea, piece of advice, research, or insight into the human condition.
But, the author would like to make some money off this idea, and therefore goes shopping for a book deal.
So, the author and/or his ghost writers wrap his simple idea up into 150 to 200 pages of repetitive, often intelligence insulting prose.
:) Seriously, there was some good info in the latter 1/4 of the book on how to tell if your baby is really sick, how to transition away from the "S's" when your child is 4 months old or so, etc.
I had a very thorough review posted on here, and it got erased while I was using the Goodreads app on my Droid (I was putting baby to sleep and needed something to do while I was waiting to put her down).But I digress...
HOWEVER, until you are up at 1am, 3am, 5am and 6am with a colicky baby and all you want is more than 15 minutes of uninterrupted sleep and your baby is screaming despite all your best efforts and you don't know what to do...I can't say that I trust your review, especially if you rated the book poorly.
