https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/32920226-sing-unburied-sing
"I washed my hands every day, Jojo. But that damn blood ain't never come out." Such a stunning book.Sing, Unburied, Sing captivated me almost instantly. THIS is how character-driven family dramas should be, and there's nothing quite like a nice bit of dysfunctional family drama to keep me turning pages. But I don't want to diminish the strength of this novel. It is a character study of a contemporary African-American family in Mississippi, but it is also a darkly beautiful story about ghosts. I
Into this setting, the author introduces the perspectives of Leonie, a drug addict increasingly haunted by the ghost of her brother, Given, who was shot by a white football player.
They live with Leonie's parents - known throughout as Mam and Pop - the former ravaged by chemo, and the latter haunted by the ghosts of his own dark past.Many stories from the past emerge through Mam and Pop, including the story of young Richie, a prisoner from Pop's tales of his time in jail.
Of course we do.A gorgeous - though dark - story for anyone who loves complex families and messy, lovable characters.
I did like a few things about the book, so let me start with the Joy Jar:Mesmerizing language.
There were two of them (one for each main character) sitting in the back seat of a car or just walking around outside--in general getting in the way of the real people.
(Never mind that they are characters, lol, not real people.) Hm....if it had been a ghost who slaughtered the goat, would I have been less upset?
Twelve-year-old Jojo, his junkie mom, and even a ghost uttered one of these three words: inexorably, indomitable, immolating.
Beautifully written. So many layers. I don't know that there is another writer who captures the complexities of the south and the legacies of racism as well as Ward. This is a brilliant novel. But also, I did want the characters and the overall narrative to be more fully developed, or perhaps more multi-dimensional. An absolute must-read, regardless.
to sum up: there is no universe in which i feel qualified to convey how damn good this book is.* ombudsmen will say "three," but the third is a ghost and only gets three chapters.*******************************************if reader-responses built rocketships and mathematical precision really mattered, i would pipe up and confess that i did not love the last page and a half, so it would be just shy of five stars.
And that’s a wonderful thing, the best feeling and the most lasting impression a writer can ever bestow on their reader.I read, before reading this novel, that Jesmyn Ward had recently been called the modern-day Faulkner, and I doubted this, I admit, likely because of all the books out there I’ve encountered doing reviews that are buoyed up by their awe-inspiring cover flaps and exalted comparisons to other, greater works, only to fall flat on their faces under the weight of such lofty and inaccurate comparisons.
The black Leonie is a drug addict and troubled woman, moving in and out of 13 year old JoJo and his toddler sister, Kayla's lives as they reside with their beloved grandparents, Mam and Pop, who provide safety, security and love for them.
On a trip that brings danger and destruction, and the truth of Leoni and race to JoJo. The ghost of Richie searches for home in a song.This is a novel that journeys into the soul of Mississippi, its history and people vibrating and shimmering in the air and land.
Jesmyn Ward was a new author to me.
I remember I cringed at times - and thought the language was beautiful.
I read Michael's review which had me running to find this book on Netgalley.
His review is wonderful.
I wrote this review mostly in context - 'AS A WHOLE'...not many details about the characters and the story.
(and I liked that too!)I enjoyed 'reading' Jesmyn's writing very much.
"I like to think I know what death is.
Although an easy storyline to follow itself - I spent extra time thinking about the individual characters.
And greet your kids with news of their first morning meal?
Click here to watch a video review of this book on my channel, From Beginning to Bookend. Heartbreak prevails, the past materializes in haunting forms, and Jesmyn Ward's prose sings in this brutal coming-of-age set in Mississippi.
Profound, poetic, and at times painful to read, Jesmyn Ward's Sing, Unburied, Sing is searing, truly a soaring literary achievement that I won't stop thinking about anytime soon.Jojo is 13 years old, on the cusp of manhood but in some ways still very much a child, longing for the security and comfort of an easier time in his life. He and his younger sister Kayla (short for Michaela) have essentially been raised by their grandparents, since their mother Leonie is often absent, either physically
Profound, poetic, and at times painful to read, Jesmyn Ward's Sing, Unburied, Sing is searing, truly a soaring literary achievement that I won't stop thinking about anytime soon.Jojo is 13 years old, on the cusp of manhood but in some ways still very much a child, longing for the security and comfort of an easier time in his life.
Three-year-old Kayla often looks to Jojo for food, love, and nurturing, which often irritates Leonie when she is around.Growing up a biracial child in Mississippi isn't easy, but Jojo's grandparents, Pop and Mam, have taught him compassion and love, as well as survival skills to weather the hard times both physical and emotional, and how to be a good man.
Once Jojo had a mama (Leonie) who attended to him and watched TV with him.
His father, Michael, is jailed in Parchman farm, The Mississippi State Penitentiary.Jojo has a dual role as surrogate parent to toddler sister Kayla and as future head of household.
Jojo simply has too much on his plate.Upon Michael's impending release from Parchman, Leonie plans a road trip, with kids in tow, to pick him up.
Jojo, however, has tried to erase the image of Leonie and Michael's fights.
Will Pop tell Jojo the full story of Richie's prison experience and subsequent demise?A multitude of underlying currents run through this tome.
I almost always read just before going to sleep, and occasionally I wake up thinking about the characters, feeling like I have to get back to the book because I just have to know what's going to happen to them .
". Then there are the moments when Jojo reaches out his hand to Kayla by telling her stories.
I loved his grandfather, Pop, and also Richie, the ghost of Pop's past who comes to Jojo and sees what we as readers see: "Riv hugs them even when he's not in the same room with them, even when he's not touching them.
"I liked most of the things Pop did, liked the way he stood when he spoke, like the way he combed his hair back straight from his face and slicked it down so he looked like an Indian in the books we read in school on the Choctaw and Creek, liked the way he let me sit in his lap and drive his tractor around the back, liked the way he ate, even, fast and neat, liked the stories he told me before I went to sleep." And stories did he tell.
Jojo is a thirteen year old biracial boy who has taken care of his three year old sister Kayla, since her birth, even though live with their Mam and Pop. Mam has shown Jojo what love and kindness are, while Pop has taught Jojo everything he possible can: how to survive and be strong even during the toughest of times.
For JoJo and Kayla's mother Leonie is a drug addict and she “ain’t got the mothering instinct.” She’s not even a decent human being, let alone a kind loving parent.
JoJo feels safe, comfortable, accepted, and loved by his Grandfather.
There is something quite beautiful in the fact that no matter what JoJo does, he receives love and no judgement from his grandfather.
Life seems normal, until his Mother announces that she is taking JoJo and Kayla to pick up their father (their White father) from the Mississippi State Penitentiary.
Neither child wants to go with their Mother but she prevails and takes them along on an eventful ride to pick up their father and bring him home.Leonie has loved Michael since he approached her after her brother was killed.
I think this came down to me not being the target market for this book.There were some unforgettable characters within this tragic and unsettling story.
Pre-teenaged Jojo stole my heart as he took on the parental role to his toddler sister, Kayla.
He accepted and stepped into the care-takers role for his baby sister with both feet – he was wise beyond his years and my hero throughout this sad and heart-breaking story.
As heart-breaking as the story was, I felt no emotional investment or attachment whatsoever.
In the end, reading this book felt like work to me rather than pleasure.
But on the story....Leonie is black and "mother" (using that word loosely here) to two bi-racial children, JoJo and Kayla.
She drags her children from the home they live in with Leonie's parents - Mam and Pop, to go get Michael as he is released from prison.
This one has ghosts weaved into the story with Mam and her daughter and her children able to see and sometimes hear these conflicted souls looking for something.
So I set it aside for awhile and saw who the narrators were and *had* to grab the audio.
But please narrators....DO NOT WHISPER in audios!
Mam and Pop are amazing characters who provide love and support to their two mixed race grandchildren, JoJo and Kayla.
The ill fated road trip undertaken was very hard to read, but provides us with a good understanding of exactly how unfit they are, where their priorities lie.These characters carry the ghosts of past injustices, things seen, experienced, especially River, who is Pop, a horrific event he had to carry out when he was in prison as a young man.
The marks of injustice, are made real by the appearance of actual ghosts, spirits who cannot rest, who only want to return home.
I would give this book a 4.5 rating.Beautifully written, haunting, very sad.
In this story we have biracial children being taken care of by the grandparents, a drug addicted mother, their father in prison, a grandmother who is dying, and a loving grandfather.
Oh, and we also have ghosts, yes, quite a few ghosts.Jojo one of a few different narrators of this book is just bogged down with the responsibility of his little sister Kayla..he is the only constant for her, he and his grandfather really pulled at my heartstrings!I plan to read more by this author, this is the first of hers that I've read.Many thanks to Scribner for the ARC.
It takes the voices of two people, a mother (Leonie) and young son (JoJo), and two spirits, one of the mother’s brother and the other of a teen aged convict, to tell this story of dystopia in today’s Mississippi.
The outside look different when the scales change, but the inside always the same,” says the ghost Richie.
Parchman was past, present, and future all at once?” Leonie’s use of drugs has a therapeutic purpose - to see and feel her dead brother.
JoJo is their voice: “They perch like birds, but look as people.
I don't know if I even feel up to the task of writing a review for this amazing novel. I started this one yesterday and I could not put this book down. Sing Unburied Sing is stunning, gripping, haunting, beautifully written, compelling and filled with complex characters. I'm usually put off by magical realism in books but I think it only added to the poetic and searing storytelling. Highly Recommended!Read for the African-American Historical Fiction Bookclub.2018 Badass Books Challenge: A book by an author you've never read.Around the year in 52 books: A book from the 2017 Goodreads Choice Awards
It's like the characters are real people, they are that three dimensional.
A thirteen year old biracial boy is forced to grow up before his time.
His mother is a drug addict and his grandparents are basically raising him and his three year old sister.
He does help advance the story of Pop’s time in Parchman but I wish there could have been another way.
I did find Pop’s time in Parchman to be one of the more interesting storylines.
This isn't a fast paced book.
My thanks to netgalley and Scribner for an advance copy of this book.
Jesmyn Ward delivers in this book a raw, impossibly real cast of characters, with a story that is simple (junkie mom packs her kids in the car to pick up loser dad from prison) but incredibly compelling.
The southern gothic atmosphere is established in the first bloody chapter with a nauseating goat slaying - and the wince-inducing pain continues from there.The strength of this book lies in the incredibly well drawn characters of Jojo (13 but forced to grow up way too soon), Leonie (despicable, failing but somehow human) and Pop (the always upright, shining beacon of hope in this dangerous and bleak story).
This story is told from several different viewpoints but the most resounding voice was a young boy named Jojo.
Jojo lives with his Mam and Pop and younger sister Kayla.
Normally I love road trip stories but in this one I knew I didn't really want to tag along but this book had me completely wrapped around it's finger by then and I couldn't stop.
It was powerful and completely swept me into the story.
You can see Jojo's world come to life.
But the author slapped it around and made it all tie right back into the story.
Traveling Sister Group Read with Norma, Lindsay, Susanne and JanB.Sing, Unburied, Sing was a Traveling Sister Group read and we had some mixed feelings on this one and it brought out a lot of different emotions from us.
What insight and emotion I did find was lost in the magical, supernatural and ghost part of the story and that just didn’t work for me.Even though Sing, Unburied, Sing didn't really work for me I did appreciate the strong well-written story that took us on a journey through Mississippi's past and present giving us a look into the sadness, poverty, and life of a Mississippi family.
My full review, as well as my other thoughts on reading, can be found on my blog.A snapshot of a family in crisis, Sing, Unburied, Sing reckons with the legacy of racial injustice in the Deep South.
The novel follows thirteen-year-old Jojo and his mother Leonie as the pair drives north to retrieve Jojo's white father from prison upon his release.
Both mother and son also are haunted by ghosts, specters of young Black men killed in acts of racialized violence.
Alternating between the pair's perspectives, Ward considers what it means to remember the forgotten and the unburied.
OH BOY, what to say - Emotional....Sad....Disheartening....Infuriating....AND a Great Read!SING UNBURIED SING is a multi-layered, beautifully written story about a dysfunctional family who live on a farm near the Gulf of Mississippi.THE CHARACTERS are very well-defined and unforgettable....like the self-absorbed drug addicted Leonie who "ain't got the mothering instinct"....like Michael the father....who "ain't" much better....undependable....even when he's not in prison.POOR MAM, she's bedridden; POP watches over her and his two bi-racial grandchildren, but OMG!
lives with a haunting and heartbreaking memory.AND THEN there's JoJo....only thirteen, but clearly stands out among ALL the rest giving baby sister Kayla love and protection from neglect, stupidity and evil.AND...OH.
Jojo and Kayla live with their mother and grandparents in Mississippi.
Their mother Leonie is black and their father Michael is white.
Half the book takes place over a two day car ride that Ward manages to make riveting by giving so much life to the nuanced emotions between the characters.
I'm not big into ghosts, but I was ok with what Ward does with these ghosts.
Really, I think that Ward could write about pretty much anything and make me interested.
Thanks to Angela and Diane for another great monthly buddy read -- we all seemed to gallop through this one.
SING, UNBURIED, SING by JESMYN WARD is a haunting, sad, heartfelt, and an absolutely exceptional novel that had me totally engaged, entertained, and interested throughout this entire book.
Although, this book was so infuriating to read at times because of its heavy subject matter it was also so well-written with such beautiful prose that this book was extremely hard for me to put down.
JESMYN WARD delivers a beautifully written multi-layered story here with absolutely wonderful character development and an extremely enthralling storyline.
To sum it all up it was an interesting, deep, unforgettable, emotional, and an enjoyable read with a very touching, heart-wrenching, and satisfying ending that was so lyrical that it sung to me.
I don’t think I can put into words how much I loved this book and why I loved it so much. It’s one of those kind of books. It just got into my psyche. Read it. More on my channel and blog soon.
Sometimes, the world don't give you what you need, no matter how hard you look. Sometimes, it withholds. There are many novels I enjoy, love, praise, wax rhapsodically about. But fewer works of fiction do I find to be important, books for our time now, getting into issues and ideas and peoples and places underrepresented or not represented well and bringing enlightenment or at least understanding as well as entertainment. For the second straight time, I found Jesmyn Ward's novel to be incredibl
I liked Salvage the Bones for all of these reasons, and feel as though Sing, Unburied, Sing improves upon Ward's talent and provides us with a timely, important novel that is unflinching and unsentimental and honest while being beautifully rendered and crafted, and for that I gave this book 4.5 stars round up to 5 stars.Through the lens of a family odyssey to Parchman penitentiary to collect the would-be patriarch, Ward captures a community not always well covered and certainly not well understood: poor, rural people on the Mississippi Gulf Coast, and her characters are complete people with their own set of trials and tribulations and dreams and regrets that collide into the wishes and heartbreaks of others, as they all individually and collectively attempt to make it through the grind of daily life.
