https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/17745.Envisioning_Information
But fully 1/10 of his second book is devoted to other train schedules (that’s merely by page count, in fact Tufte devotes 1 of 7 chapters to this).
And Tufte is to be commended for self-publishing his books on graphical integrity so he can assure that his own work exemplifies his ideals for communication and graphic-to-text information density.
You can tell that Tufte designed the book page by page & not section by section, or even chapter by chapter.
Among them: use light grids, avoid the "1 + 1 = 3 or more" effect ( basically, think of | |...while I mean it to be two black lines, the white space in between becomes a third item & clutters the display), "clutter is a property of design, not data", be careful with misleading applications of color.
His exploration of how people “represent the rich visual world of experience and measurement on mere flatland” ranges across time and space to bring examples of both good and bad designs.The first chapter, Escaping Flatland, should be a quick introduction to the topic that invites the reader in to the work.
It doesn’t quite work that way, though, due mainly to Tufte’s technical language and his quick transitions of topics and examples.
He discusses Micro/Macro Readings next, then Layering and Separation, Small Multiples, Color and Information, and finally Narratives of Space and Time.
He held them in hotel ballrooms throughout the United States, and his followers attended with cult-like repetition, sometimes registering for the same course 6 times in one year.Edward Tufte is one of the most elegant designers of information alive today, the book was the beginning of my devotion to his philosophy of the visual articulation of facts, figures, and abstract concepts.
From the eloquent graphical explanations in the New York Times, to the vibrant digital displays of political elections on Fox News, and the historical statistics of hurricanes put forth on Weather Channel - all of this traces its heritage back to Edward Tufte and his award winning books.
If you can't present data in a way that communicates your thoughts or the emergent information, there is no reason to present the data. This book and other Tufte books are fundamental.
A helpful marketing guide on how to write, draw and give lectures in regards to descriptions of meaningful figures and diagrams that piques both the audience's retina as well as their neural cells where information is swallowed and later dissolved into their jugular veins where internally the audience can know what is being described in their own words and understanding :)
I think I had the wrong expectations for this book, so I was left disappointed. "Information" is not quite the same as data. If you're all about data visualization, try Nathan Yau. Tufte had good tips that are generalizable but I didn't find the examples very applicable to the type of things I work with.
I think Tufte makes justifiable summaries of good visualization trends, but nothing that really stood out to me as different enough to justify another book.
I suppose there are some data graphics that are redesigned by Tufte scattered around these pages, but they tend to be alterations of the prior design rather than a ground-up example of how to go from raw data to a principled finished data visualization.If you want some perspective on designs that are both aesthetically pleasing and display some data, then this book might work for you.
If you want to actually get a good design going for data you have, well, keep looking.
This is a great book with a lot of examples from around the world. Its only fault is its brevity.
I've only seriously read two of Tufte's books.
So when Tufte was brought up in the book club I was happy to push for this one that I hadn't had a chance to read as thoroughly as I would have liked.Information is just about the cornerstone of the work that I do.
The people I design software for have more information than then really know what to do.
the operating moral premise of information design should be that our readers are alert and caring; they may be busy, eager to get on with it, but they are not stupid" (p.
Tufte follows up his debut classic with an even more beautiful piece of graphic art disguised as a guide to ways to display three (and more) dimensions on a flat surface.While even more beautifully crafted than The Visual Display of Quantitative Information, 2nd edition, it has less in the way of practical guidance.
In fact, I have found Tufte's principle and illustrations are useful ways of thinking about how to improve my own graphics, but I find my ability to implement them frustrated by the limitations of the design tools I use most: Excel, PowerPoint, Project, Word, wikis.
Very interesting book. Beautifully typeset and printed, and in that way an absolute example of how to visually present your work or information in general.However, and quite contradictory in that sense, in my opinion it lacks a clear structure and hence it didn't entirely succeed to get its message across. After reading it a first time (I am planning to reread it sometime), I remembered some "tips & tricks", but no clear set of take-away messages.
dulu beli untuk perpustakaan.kagak ngarti apa pentingnya buku ini, selain cuma sekadar mendorong agar kita bisa membnuat presentasi yang memikat.ternyata,ketika kita harus sering presentasi, buku ini sangat bermanfaat.idenya cuma agar kita mempresentasikan gagasan secara jernih, terbuka, padat, cepat. untuk itu perlu keahliann memilih medium presentasi kita, mengenal audiens, menyajikan presentasi lebih visual, menyentuh indera...siip!
I thoroughly enjoyed this book and recommend it to anyone who works with the visual representation of information. The book itself is beautiful, the writing is clear, and the drawings work seamlessly to create a comprehensive understanding of different categories of information. I look forward to reading more Edward Tufte.
Fundamental concepts, usually ignored in practice. The point is that presenting information meaningfully is challenging and takes real thought. Simplicity does not create clarity by itself.
I didn't find it to have a particularly strong or clear argument, but plenty of interesting examples and points.
Classic
The book is broken up into six chapters, and an epilogue."Escaping Flatland" explores how best to represent multi-dimensional data on a two-dimensional surface; the story of how sunspots were recorded and represented over time is especially interesting.
"Micro/Macro Readings" addresses how to elegantly display an overview or summary alongside the data that make it up.
"Layering and Separation" and "Color and Information" try to show how to strip away clutter and most effectively communicate a core narrative: the discussion of map-making and Oliver Byrne's visual proofs of Euclid's Geometry were, respectively my favorite parts of those chapters.
ABSTRACT: How to Design Information, Communicate effectively, powerfully (like a nuclear-warhead) using data analysis and how to make it so people can comprehend it; Intro to How to use Data Analysis, " "This book celebrates escapes from the flatlands of both paper and computer screen, showing superb displays of high-dimensional complex data.
The most design-oriented of Edward Tufte's books, Envisioning Information shows maps, charts, scientific presentations, diagrams, computer interfaces, statistical graphics and tables, stereo photographs, guidebooks, courtroom exhibits, timetables, use of color, a pop-up, and many other wonderful displays of information.
I picked up "Envisioning Information" from the library and will say that if you have the opportunity: read a physical copy of the book rather than a digital copy.
Generally, statistics classes pay lip service to some of these clichés such as "Confusion and clutter are failures or design, not information," but as with any engineering discipline, seeing is believing.What makes "Envisioning Information" different from anything else you've seen is his ability to find examples of these information design principles from a range of different time periods.
If you have any interest in how to visualize dense data this book is a must read.
I appreciate his view on self exemplifying documents and the need for intelligent and beautiful design of information.
He wants the reader to move slowly and study each example as he has, which has merit, to be sure, but the larger principles he is demonstrating get lost in the details rather than creating/building a clear, coherent, and usable philosophy.
From my point of view, the great value of visual information is their ability to give themselves to the viewer.
I kept hoping these books would give themselves, but Tufte wants his readers to work for it rather than immerse themselves in it.
This is the only book by Tufte I've read so far.
I really liked that the beautiful and informative examples in the book come from wide range of sources, they are not all "western" and from the time the book was written.
I think there's a lot to learn about the art of visual explanation from it.In "Envisioning Information" Tufte also cites a lot of work by other authors about color, cartography, dance notation and much more.
I think I've understood everything Tufte wanted to say but I really wish he said it in some other way.
Eye opening book on the art and science behind data visualization. Does an amazing job of pulling in a wide range of examples from different parts of the world and many different disciplines. Does lack in communicating clear messages about how the provided examples can fit together to inform a practical toolkit.
It’s one of the typical textbooks - eyeopening, well written, lots of references, but the means of communication are so tedious and inefficient. A much better choice would be Cole Knaflic’s storytelling with data. It builds upon Tufte’s work and makes it much more effective and practical. I’m sure Tufte’s earlier work would be better. Will read his first book soon.
There was a lot to learn from here, but this was closer to a set of lecture notes than it was to a textbook. I'd have gotten five times as much out of this book if someone else had walked me through it, tying everything together. As it was, it was a bunch of neat diagrams, but the text lacked sufficient depth.
Magnificent book on the principles of how to display data in a proper way. Beautiful edition, chock-full of fascinating examples illustrating the general principles of information design. Invaluable in these days of information overload.
Great subject matter and examples; however, Tufte's prose can become almost unreadable at times. Plus, the book's page-to-page organization and layout is strange. However, the subject matter (e.g. micro-macro readings, the stuff on color, and 1+1=3 effects) make the book important.
A gorgeous read for anyone who enjoys visualizations. Compared to the Visual Display of Quantitative Information, this book is more varied, and is closed to something I’d consider art- which does better at grabbing my interest.
Lots of overlap with the Visual Design book. I wish the two were combined.
really brilliant book! easy to read, full of examples, clear, compelling, informative. nice to read even if you are not into information visualization. one of my favourite reads!
