https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/437965.A_View_from_the_Bridge_All_My_Sons
Read because Miranda had brought it home from school to do her homework and I couldn't resist it when she left it lying around. Read it straight though, including a glass of wine in the interval and super enjoyed it, was imagining it in the Quarry Theatre at the WYP :D I should read more plays, having all the stage directions is great.
As a class, we had to read 'A View From A Bridge' together, but when given the text, I decided to read the 'All my Sons' play too.
I have been lucky enough to see both plays on the stage, but as usual with plays, I preferred watching it to reading it.A view from the bridge was amazing, I loved the story-line and found the setting of illegal immigrants an exciting concept.
All my sons was much more affective as a stage piece than on paper.
4.5
if anything though my interest piqued with alfieri’s character and the role he played in the narrative.
im reading for leisure obviously but im also almost wondering if i could apply a greek tragic structure to this, or some kind of omniscient narrator-type thing to his character???
i cant remember the exact word for it but i know miller didnt use this structure for his other plays ie have a character ‘re-tell’ from the future so..interesting choice and also really the only thing i liked.
this play was very strange.

I need to research the meanings behind this play before I can fully appreciate its genius - I think it's a bit too clever for me when I've just read it so quickly!
My English teacher always says the protagonist of the play is clear, but I didn't find it so simple.
However, there was something poetic about the whole play, and emotion fraught every sentence in a way that was hugely involving - I could not put it down.Must go and read some experts now to explain it all to me!

It was my first time reading Miller’s play, ‘A View from the Bridge’ in order to prepare to teach the play to my Year 9 students. It’s an honest, raw and simple play that says a lot in a brief period of time. I’m looking forward to teaching it.
Good story, great representation tragedy as Eddie, the main character is responsible for her own downfall.
A couple of very immersive and well constructed plays that showcase Miller's ability to criticize society through the vision of very relatable and yet tragic characters.
Read this for school last year but i wanna reread!
The book called A View From the Bridge do not shows any interesting thoughts by the appearance of the book.
When I started to read this play, it interested me by it's introduction which a third-person narrator tells whole story from his point-of-view.
The uncle of the main character tells the main character do not turn her own blood in.
Ironical ending concludes the whole story by main character's uncle turns their own blood into immigration bureau by his selfish thoughts.
This play really interested me after I discovered it.
A View from the Bridge explores the infrastructure of family and the strains of loyalty when Eddie and his family introduce into their home illegal immigrants that potentially threaten everything Eddie has carved out for his niece-turned-adopted daughter.
All My Sons attacks the culpability of war profiteering and betrayal, the dynamics loss and renewal, as the sole surviving Keller son falls for his dead brother's fiancee, exposing family secrets and the truth of sinister events.Miller's art in expressing thought, relationship, or social critique, through the interplay of dialogue is spellbinding and flawless.
Definitely a new favorite!
The plays in this books are raw and realistic but loveable to the end.Both All My Sons and A view from the Bridge are set in New York and are about family struggles.
Mostly financial struggles as all the characters are part of the working class and suffer during the postwar crisis.All My Sons is about New Yorkers who are in war conflict in their own house.
They all want to be higher on the social ladder and want to do it by working hard but don't Always succeed in doing it.Arthur Miller captured the postwar New York perfectly.
This is a good book for teens. This book can be looked at in many different ways. It can either be looked at as a father-daughter relationship between Catherine, and her father, Eddie or as some others say more than a father- daughter relationship. Catherine is only Edidie's niece by marriage but Beatrice, Eddie's wife, is responsible for her. Beatrice starts to get jealous of Catherine because Eddie is giving her more time than he gives her. This all ends when Catherine marries Rodolpho. Eddie is killed by Rodolpho's brother Marco.
Both good plays exploring the themes of masculinity & fatherhood. Left feeling a bit ambivalent towards Eddie - his flaw being the denial of his 'love' for Catherine, but then she doesn't exactly help things, nor does his wife...If like me you haven't read a stage play since being at school, I'd recommend you visualise it, make notes throughout, and pace yourself - a lot turns on implication (i.e. things aren't spelt out), so important not to rush through.
A View from the Bridge's review: All My Sons' review:
Catherine: you suck.Beatrice: I'm so sorry.Eddie: va te faire foutre, you perv.Alfieri: thank you for being the only sensible chatacter in this play.Rodolpho: are you gay or are you not? In any case, you suck. Asshole.Read November 27th 2011, among many other dates.
For a play this did really well in conveying the jealousy and anger Eddie had towards his daughter-like niece when she falls for Rodolfo. Despite being so irrational in the lengths he went to try and break them up, I still ended up feeling that he was still a victim.
This was our book club book for this month. I wasn't looking forward to it as I hadn't read a play since high school, however I was surprised at how much I enjoyed both of these stories as well as reading in the form of a play.
Two very simple, yet dramatic plays. I thought the second was better than the first - clever little twist. I suppose their themes aren't dissimilar. My knowledge of plays, however, is fairly limited and I'm struggling to remember the finer details.
I thoroughly enjoyed reading a View from the Bridge as I feel it offers a naked and vulnerable portrayal of the human psyche. Feelings and emotions that we might have ourselves experienced or encountered in our lives are laid bare.
Had to study it for English GCSE - enjoyed it thoroughly, and my Boarding House performed "A View from the Bridge" very compellingly. :) Highly recommend for Arthur Miller fans
Five stars for both plays. I've only read a handful of Miller's plays, but I'm beginning to think that he didn't go in for happy endings.
5/5 for All my Sons. Going to read more Miller from now on.
Although not my cup of tea, the morals behind it are clear and it is definitely an interesting read.
These two plays from Arthur Miller have very different subjects, but the central issue in both is human decency and the individual's conception of honour.
Interesting book but slightly disturbing.
I saw these plays about twenty years apart. The first All My Sons in 1981 and the second A View from the Bridge in 2001. THese are both powerful plays and the scripts reflect this.
