https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6326207-the-diary-of-a-u-boat-commander
No one seems to know if this story is fact or fabrication.
Check out the literature surrounding it--no clues.
Check out all the reviews--no certainty.
The author is sometimes listed as Karl von Schenk, the captain of said U-boat, and sometimes as William Stephen Richard King-Hall, a British naval officer and peer.
King-Hall did in fact exist--he was at one time a member of Parliament--but his connection to this so-called diary is in no way clear.
Odd that is should persist so long--it was published in 1920--with the story behind it still so mysterious.
In fact, she was discovered and executed, although Karl, at great personal risk, made a supreme effort with the German authorities to save her.Stephen King-Hall utilizes the persuasive trappings of a diarist to be convincing: the “diary” includes an explanation of how the English editor obtained it; end notes on submarine warfare that elucidate technical and chronological entries in the fictional diary; credible breaks in the narrative due to naval or personal circumstances; and important letters packaged with the diary are “reproduced” for the reader.

I was never quite sure whether this was an entirely fictional tale masquerading as a biography, or whether there's any truth to the story. Either way, it was a good read, and I enjoyed it more than I had expected.
Very compelling and tragic. A quick read.
Surprisingly good
Interesting read, loved the mix of war and romance.
Fictional account of a WW1 U-Boat Commander and his love affair with an Allied spy. For me it failed to work on most levels - not enough feel for life as a U-Boat commander as the novel the inspired Das Boot. The love story part of it read a bit like Victorian melodrama. Overall, a disappointment.
Quite Tragic. Sometimes boring.
I love hearing the protagonist's arrogance dwindle through the course of the story. In the beginning, he's a pompous, bloated ass; in the end, he's much more humble and human.
Not as much hardcore u-boat action, but the love story was nice and the ending was bittersweet
As other reviewers have mentioned, this diary is half about war and half about a love story and how they intertwine.
I'm sure the debate will continue, but this was an entertaining book regardless.The entries from when Von Schenk was at sea, while not overly technical or tactical in their discussions, do give a pretty good idea as to what the experience of sailing was like in that era.
Von Schenk does detail his operating areas and targets, as well as interjecting his feelings about the war, which unsurprisingly do change as the diary progresses.
The love story entries are a different sort of interesting.
Sure, the "author" (more on that below) commanded a German U-boat in World War One and there are several fascinating sections concerned with the operation of said boat.
It's a very fast read, very well written, and it left me hungry to learn more about WW1-era submarine operations.A note about the "author", based on some online research:Stephen King-Hall, an Englishman, claims that the diary fell into his hands from a surrendered U-boat after the armistice.
But the sections dealing with U-boat handling are supposedly quite accurate so it's surmised that an actual U-boat captain or senior officer was probably involved in the writing.
I downloaded this as a non-fiction book, supposedly based on the captured diary of a U-boat commander at the end of WWI.
It is well written, although a bit slow paced in the beginning, and explores the conflicting sentiments of patriotism and horror of war, love and duty from the perspective of a a member of the traditional Prussian nobility.More of tale of human internal conflict that a war book, although some of the descriptions of submarine life ring true.
"Etienne" (AKA Sir William Stephen Richard King-Hall), the 'translator' (AKA author in my opinion) served in the British Navy or HMS Southampton and on submarines at the end of World War I, he was an aristocrat and had all the experience and situation to make an excellent Karl.
I came across this book this morning on my android when I was looking for something to read for a few minutes.I believed it was nonfiction until I was about half way through it.
In that sense it kind of reminded me of Robinson Crusoe.
But in some sense, this book is brilliant.
It is well written and easy to read quickly.I don't consider anybody who thought this was nonfiction--I don't that means they are naive.
I'd say it's more real than Robinson Crusoe.
Being the diary of a World War One U-boat commander I didn't expect antisemitism, although a single reference describing a tailor as an oily Jew, I was still surprised to see it in this diary.Commander Karl Von Schenk, the writer of the diary, was a scoundrel in every way from my own opinion, the type of individual I would want nothing to do with but his writing of his experiences is worthy of a Hollywood blockbuster.
I wanted to despise the commander but found myself emotionally invested in his story and hoping for a favorable end to his tale.
In these pages you find drama, hatred, bigotry and death but you also find pride, patriotism, love and hope.
It is a sad tale that for us, the readers, ends in sadness and hope.
There was some of this, but the book became more of a pining for a woman with whom he fell totally in love.
At this point, I found the book to become boring and I almost didn't finish it.
However, the ending was so surprising and eventful that I wanted to know more about the commander, his lover, and how the events unfolded.
From real disappointment to total surprise and curiosity is a big swing in feelings and it happened so quickly that I can suggest reading this book just for the shock value.
Remarkable insight into the personal experience of a U-Boat Commander and his thoughts on WWI and war in general.
"Around me in the darkness are the patrol boats, manned by the Englishmen who are seeking my life.
Seeking it, not to gratify their private emotions, but because we are all in the whirlpool of War and cannot escape...even if we smash this island Empire and gain dominion of the world, how will it advantage me?
I can see no way in which I can gain...Do I exist for my country, or does my country exist for me?"
Not a bad story as historical fiction goes, but I don't believe for one minute that it was an actual diary.
The complete lack of any technical detail makes it abundantly clear that this is purely a fictional account.
Once you realize that, the obvious stereotyping of the German officer becomes more apparent.
I can see why people would be confused about this book; according to goodreads, the author is "Karl Von Schenk," the Officer himself, "Anonymous," (how can a diary be anonymous?), and Sir Stephen King-Hall, who, incidentally also wrote "A North Sea Diary 1914-1918" about his experiences on H.M.S. Southampton.
The background of live in WWi Zeebrugge, Brugge and Kiel was fascinating, but not much rich enough to feel the cultural landscape. There is also not enough fighting on the sea for an action thriller, so what remains is the romance between a u-boat commander and a girl he is not supposed to fall in love with. The exasperating tension forces you to read through the book until the girls story is revealed in the end. So a hopeless cheap romance novel can succeed in being read in the end.
I "read" this as an audiobook that I specifically downloaded to listen to in the car. I have an interest in military history so I expected to enjoy this book and I wasn't disappointed. Good narrative and scenes of war. Without giving too much away, my opinion of the main character changed through the story and I found the the military aspect became just a backdrop to the fate of Von Schenk. Very good!
I believe this to be a work of fiction. Something about the prose and the styling just doesn't ting true, if this was really being written as a diary. The realization dawned on me about half way through and I just kind of skimmed to the end- I was expecting the true voice of a U Boat commander and I got a purple-y fiction by a mediocre English writer.. You might say I was disappointed.
What an amazing book.Don't expect wonderful pose or traditional american writing.The flow and pattern of of this book is different in that it truly is a Diary from a WWII German Salior who commanded a U-boat, who has decided to share his climb to leadership from his begining in the German Navy.Enjoy.
I was under the impression that this was an actual diary from a First World War U-Boat commander, so it's my own fault that I read this. It's actually a fictional romance between a U-Boat commander and a girl he meets while on leave in Belgium. As a romance it's not bad, but it was not really my cup of tea.
I downloaded this book thinking I'd be reading on what life was like in the U-boat. Turns out this is a great piece of fiction told from the viewpoint of a U-boat office. But beyond the war and the details of life in the U-boat this book has a interesting twist. You won't be able to put this book down once you get started.
A revealing look at the heart and mindA fascinating picture of life in the German navy in WWI, and particularly in the U-boats. The change in the author's attitude over the course of the war is poignant. I found the stories of his love life tiresome but to him of course that part of his life was no less relevant!
An authentic diary of a WWI U-boat commander. Listened to this on Librivox. Not a lot of action, but it gives you a glimpse into the life of a man at war. However, there is a significant twist at the end that makes the whole book worth reading (and the letter from Zoe is absolutely enthralling - better than the whole book).
"Found Footage" style fiction by a well known British parliamentarian, writer and naval officer. Not normally my type of book but the changes in the protagonist's demeanor and attitude as the story unfolds strongly serves the author's anti-war sentiments. As other readers have also mentioned, the mix of romance and war was a very strong point.
I listened to the book and was surprised how much I enjoyed it. I like military history in general, so that was interesting and to have romance, despite the sad ending, worked in was also a nice touch. All in all, a good book and fun to listen to.
Very well written. loved the military descriptions and u-boat battles etc. Just not a big fan of the romance aspect which is at least half of the book. Overall, I enjoyed it...would've gone 4 starts with more battle!
