https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/51146.The_Prodigal_Girl
This book features one of many "Bettys" in Grace Livingston Hill's books, and early on, Betty's little sister shocks her family by announcing that her teacher taught the class that their "aunt's sisters were monkeys"!
But when Father gets home he has gone from trying to decide what color (or even what shade of a particular color) car to buy for teenage daughter Betty, to gleaning from idle salty talk from the uncouth whippersnappers behind him on his homeward train that his dear little Betty might not be Father's Perfect Little Angel anymore....Even if those doltish dudes were dissing a totally different Betty altogether (but he has this painful feeling that they weren't), maybe the Thornton family needs to make some changes.
Another hearty serving of Grace Livingston Hill "comfort-food" reading.
I first read this book when I first got saved back in the '80's! I loved it then and I still love it. It's been over 20 years since I first read it and thoroughly enjoyed it again. This was the first book I read by Grace Livingston Hill and it hooked me completely. I have read others by her but this is my favorite by far!
Wild child then did compare.
You can change your mind up to a point.
When children come it is too late to change your mind.
You are really tied together by DNA in a child, you can not change you mind then.Anyway fun to read and compare to my previous read, "Mrs. Fletcher".
But the porn, BJs, divorce that were the norms in Mrs. Fletcher could not even be mentioned in this book.
Mrs. Fletcher could have no conclusion because of the lack of social standards today.
At least 100 years ago we had standards to aspire to.
For example, she described the moon in the night sky as "a silver boat on a sapphire sea."This particular story tells about a modern family with a Christian background and who are church attendees.
Then the father overhears two boys on the train discussing his oldest daughter in a way that makes it clear that she is not behaving in the way she should.
The rest of the story is what happens - how the family reacts and whether they will ever be a real family again.The surprising thing about this book is that is was written in 1929.
This book is extremely un-PC and is overtly Christian in its views.
Of course, the things that scandalized the father in this story would be scoffed at as nothing today, but then, that's kind of the point.
I found this story very compelling, and I was eagerly rooting for the father to be able to impress upon his children the values and principles which he was shocked to discover they had drifted so far from, and for the whole family to bond.Unlike the usual GLH, there really wasn't much of a romance here, and this one wasn't as light.
His next daughter is acting in vulgar ways, showing off her body and dancing in lewd manner in public.
And his wife is immersed in pop psychology and letting the children do whatever they want.And what's amazing, this story about an entire family going to the dogs was written in 1929 - not a whole lot has really changed, has it?
There's a lot here to think about, and to discuss with your own family about how to live in a Christ-like manner in a world that wants you to do anything but.Makes you wonder what the author would write about today's world...
I think you have to keep in mind this was written many years ago and has a certain dramatic flair to it that you wouldn't see today.
Her thoughts and emotions during that period were expressed very well.
I thought the ending was rather abrupt and would have liked a little more information....like did Betty ever get her watch back, and at what point did her mother realize they weren't poor after all.
(Certainly when her husband buys Betty that expensive gift at the end!) I think any author who's work stands the test of time has to be admired, and this is certainly true of Grace Livingston Hill.
This was my first GLH book, which I picked up at my grandmother's.
I was intrigued by the simplicity of the novel's fundamental Christian themes told in a setting of simpler times.
Admittedly, the first half of the book was more challenging to get through because the perceived demise of the family resulting from their evil ways is told almost strictly from Chester, the father.
The second half of the novel which provides an account of the family's trials and tribulations while in exile on a small Vermont farm is a more rewarding read; particularly Betty's journey from a life of sin to redemption.
I was surprised to find a GLH novel I had never read.
This one didn't ring quite as true as some of the others in my opinion.
The children's transformation seemed a bit forced, and I didn't quite like the sermon in the form of the pastor/teacher's exposition - it seemed a bit too preachy.
Most of her books introduce the topic more naturally, in the course of conversation.
Still, it was GLH...I read her books for the comfortable sense of what life used to be like, instead of today's electronics and technology and fast-paced mumbo-jumbo.
After reading this paragraph I had to share it with anyone that would listen.
"Now you know, however much you may pretend that you are your own masters and mistresses, that that isn't the case at all.
Also, you have a moral obligation, whether you own it or not, to obey me as long as I am supporting you, whether you like it or not." This book was written in 1929, but I heard basically the same lecture in the 1970's.
Once I started reading this book, I couldn't put it down.
This was my first experience reading GLH, and I was pleasantly suprised. I expected the story to drag on, but it was actually an intriguing and quick-paced story. My only qualms are some weird theology, a good deal of repetition, and more than a little melodrama. All in all though, I liked it, and would read another GLH book without hesitation.
I loved this book so much!!! What a great story of true love and God's redemption... so beautiful and so sweet brought me to tears!!! Loved the story of the prodigal girl!!!! A beautiful picture of salvation....
I like these clean Christian romances by Grace Livingston Hill; however, I will say that her good characters are almost too perfect and her bad ones horribly evil, which can make them amusing although that's not the intent.
I loved this book. These books written in the early 1900's are so apropos today it is unbelievable. She goes much deeper in to the spiritual side of her characters than today's Christian Romance writers do. They are not just a good read, they are a spiritual journey.
One of GLH's best. I have all of them and have read all of them, some 3 or 4 times. This has a strong message of forgiveness. It could apply to 2017 families and what parents and kids are being taught today.
A Christian romance with a timeless appeal. Grace Livingston Hill may be long gone, but she lives on through her writings...and for good reason.
A timeless novel dealing with parents who doubt their parenting and rebellious children. In desperation they move to their remote farmhouse where father grew up.
You can read my review at... http://forhisgloryandpraise.wordpress...
Hill, Grace Livingston
My first GLH book: the simplicity of the story, contrast between good and evil, along with a domestic eye for description really turned me into a fan of her fiction.
I loved reading this book because it is about a father in the 1920s who, on his commute home overhears some of his daughter's male friends from school discuss her in a way to show not only their low morals, but possibly also his dear daughter, Betty's.
In spite of this really Huge, Huge fault in the tale, I liked that he used "homeschooling" and got a pastor to tutor his children.
Also, when he felt it was safe to go back home, the father collected other parents to begin a Christian school.
Moms who like romance, homeschooling and /or Christian education and old fashioned tales may enjoy this story as well.
