https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/80373.Power_Knowledge
من فترة كنت لقيت دة  النص اكيد مش من الكوميك ستريب الاصلي بتاع calvin and hobbes بيبقي مُصمم قرر استخدام حيلة اختلاف السياق ، عشان يحط جملة مضمونها صادم وسوداوي علي لسان شخصية شكلها برئ ومُسالم .. حيلة انتشرت مؤخراً خصوصاً مع شخصيات الكوميك ستربس المُهم ان الكوميك حلو :D ساعتها فعلاً حاولت أدقق في موضوع "القيمة " خصوصاً ان الموضوع دة بقي من اكتر المواضيع حساسية بالذات في الجانب الاجتماعي ، لا في الحياة كلها حتي الجوانب الاقتصادية منها ، لدرجة ان ساعات المفاضلة بين الاشياء او الاشخاص او المواضيع
من فترة كنت لقيت دة 
حيلة انتشرت مؤخراً خصوصاً مع شخصيات الكوميك ستربس المُهم ان الكوميك حلو :D ساعتها فعلاً حاولت أدقق في موضوع "القيمة " خصوصاً ان الموضوع دة بقي من اكتر المواضيع حساسية بالذات في الجانب الاجتماعي ، لا في الحياة كلها حتي الجوانب الاقتصادية منها ، لدرجة ان ساعات المفاضلة بين الاشياء او الاشخاص او المواضيع المجردة بيجيبلي neurosisالمهم ان فوكو خصص جزءكبير من حياته في دراسة الموضوع دة ...السلطة بكل اشكالها من ضمنها السلطة المانحة للقيمة او للحق -موضع اهتمامي الشخصي وأكيد طبعاً السلطة السياسية اللي هي موضع اهتمام اي شخص طبيعي ...
I always like reading books of interviews-- they give us the chacne to see a thinker play each card as it lays, and I'm remembering some excellent sets of interviews with Said and Deleuze.As the title suggests, most of the lectures and interviews here deal with Foucault's conception of power, which, despite its centrality to his theory, seems to be widely misunderstood, simplified, distorted, depoliticized, psychoanalyzed, etc.
The book is also useful for examining the influence of Marx on Foucault, and on Foucault's relationship to Marxist thought (answer: he's more of a Marxist than either the Marxists or the postmodernists give him credit for), and for seeing a novel approach to the concepts therein in a world so different from the one dear old Karl was living in.
foucault...what can i say...he's the best...i can't stop reading his work and rediscovering the world....
Just as Barthes thought that in critical theory the Author should be killed, so Foucault thinks that in political theory the King should be beheaded.Like in this quote: “At the end of the eighteenth century, people dreamed of a society without crime.
But for sure this might be due to the fact that he keeps talking to Maoist Marxists in this book.Foucault also makes the point that when people talk about power it’s often discussed solely as it relates to oppression, censorship, negative qualities.

glad I got through this without turning into a genderfluid anarchist ; didn't rly enjoy this, but tbf this is prolly one of the best and most compact introductions to Foucault's thought out there
Any scholar in the wide array of disciplines, approaches, and questions which might be encompassed by the term 'critique' has to deal with the legacy of Michel Foucault.
A collection of interviews and lectures through the mid-1970s, Knowledge/Power shows a more informal Foucault, one working through the contradictions and terminology of his own theories.
As such, the various pieces help show 'why' Foucault approached the overarching question of power through strategies, discourses, institutions and the like, as well as some of the methodological 'how' of genealogy and archaeology.
The quality of the interviews varies widely.
After struggling with 'Discipline and Punish' I read this book and I think it makes a great introduction to Foucault. especially his ideas on on the prison. Its also fun to read because he more than once backs his Leftist interviewers into uncomfortable corners on the desirability of the state administering justice. Why must the state intervene in the form of courts and trials? Why does the only acceptable manner of conflict resolution within a community involve the state as mediator: at best blind, at worst malignant, coming between the people and the source of their grievance?
This book is the product of one of the most popular authors in social theory, the great Michel Foucault and because of this, I will have no remorse in my judgment.One of the things that annoyed me the most, in this book, is the language.
The next thing that bothered me is his interpretation of history, or rather the lack of complexity in it.Foucault simplifies the history of sexuality to a few crucial moments in the 17th, 18th and 19th century.
I don't care much for structuralism so this was a big no for me.Taking into context Foucault's life, his work seems highly apologetic of his lifestyle and sexuality and I have no problem with that.
I wanted a meaningful book when we were at Shakespeare and Co in Paris.
What better than a collection of essays and interviews of Michel Foucault!
It has been nearly 30 years since I last studied him, and I was worried I might not have the patience for this book, but given the political climate today, essays about power and knowledge were refreshing!
Although Foucault boils things down to simple constructs, I found myself imagining what he would have said about American politics in 2018.
I read with a pen and underlined so many things.
Power and knowledge.
What a concept!
Odlična knjiga s odličnom tezom da se nad seksualnošću ne provodi represija, već je se, naprotiv, proizvodi kao poželjnu da bi je se onda moglo klasificirati i kako bi se mogli propisivati njezini normativni i nenormativni oblici. Odlična je i teza da se moć ne može shvaćati kao svojstvo apstraktnih koncepata poput države, već kao odnos snaga raznorodnih elemenata društva, kao nešto što se ne posjeduje, nego provodi.
I don't know.Did this book deserve 3, probably not, because there is wisdom in it.But the bottom line is its boring, repetitive, pretentious and named wrongly.It should be called Sex and might not Power/Knowledge.Overall, reading Power/knowledge was not a fun experience, sure I am kinda smarter for it, but it was a struggle reading it.
Lost my momentum in the last 50 pages. When it was good, it was really good. Lots of notes. Finished the paper tonight.
Great book that shows the connection between power and knowledge, without ever putting its reader in too big of a depth. (read in 2 phases: first for my thesis, later to finish it completely)
sumpah ra dong
Foucault's perspective is shockingly still very applicable even in the so called modern social norms and institutions. Amazing!
In the chapter entitled “Truth and Power”—one of his “greatest hits” in terms of concepts, this interview with Alessandro Fontana and Pasquale Pasquino offers an opportunity for Foucault to reflect on the disappearance of the intellectual in the humanities and the resulting rise in power and influence of science.
Furthermore, Foucault’s obsession with contemporary politics is also presented through the lens of examining history as a means of understanding how we ended up with the institutions of knowledge we have and how they work to maintain social orders of power and truth.
4.5 stars
This volume serves as a useful compendium to the ideas outlined in Foucault's major works, (i.e. Madness and Civilization, Discipline and Punish, the Order of Things, Archeology of Knowledge, Birth of the Clinic, etc.).
The second essay (Prison Talk) is an explication of the major ideas posited in Discipline and Punish, particularly the development of Bentham's Panopticon and the transmission of power as surveillance.
It is fun to watch Foucault's thinking shift here throughout the course of the interview; initially he is quite hostile to the idea of examining geographical material as a means to access power relations, but he finishes with tremendous enthusiasm for the idea.
There's a lot of insight but not a lot of pedagogy (luckily there's a few group discussion chapters where Foucault is asked to explain himself).In the end though, I'm not sure what exactly I've learned about power other than how to look at it: as a myriad of small relations or connections rather than a single top-down thing.
For instance, bourgeois power over the proletariat comes both from the factory owner acting their part and the worker internalizing their lower status, and is further reinforced through a legal system that specifically targets and turns the proletariat against the dissenters who refuse the status quo.The book shows us a deep research into important topics but in an incredibly muddled way.
It begins with a discussion on popular justice and the power wielded by the judiciary system, ends with a discussion on racism and child-rearing, and spans numerous subjects.One thing that's difficult to read about this book (something I didn't like, I guess) is the amount of context it requires.
While I suppose this will always be an issue with being a young person interested in philosophy who wants to read Foucault, it is somewhat of a challenge to fully grasp his examples of judiciary exploitation and modern intellectual specificity.
All in all, reading Power/Knowledge was an extremely interesting and thought-provoking experience.
Best single Foucault book for the man on the street.
He is lucid insofar as he is chatting to folks; they really press him to clarify his thoughts and work to clear up ambiguities or common misreadings and it in this way it points to where his concerns actually lie.
He is being political insofar as he is chatting with Maoists and discussing what to do with his thought.
This book has influenced my reading of Foucault's thought as a crucial supplement to being able to understand Marx.
He is chatting about what is to be done in an interesting way in that unlike his actual books; he talks about politics and challenging bourgeois ideology.
What's wonderful about Foucault is that his works are approachable even to non-academics.
While I think the dialogue of power has evolved since Foucault's first writings, I would say that in the context of what came before him, his work is quite amazing.
His essays on the prison system, sexuality, and health are enlightening in this fashion.For my research, I was more interested in his work showing power as a far more pervasive/invasive instrument.
Several essays elucidate the dialog surrounding the power and influence ascribed to process.
As usual with Foucault, I just wish he would give me reasons to buy into what he's saying that don't just consist in my predisposition to agree with him on some things (and disagree on others).
"Truth and Power," for instance, gives me just as much reason to believe its assertions as any text that would insist on there being a giant pink invisible untouchable elephant that holds the entire universe in its sway and permeates every facet of our being does.
K, it's not quite that bad, and I'm such a fan of his calling Derrida's writing terroristic obfuscation that I'll be a bit lenient on Foucault's intellectual soft spots, but still...
This is my first experience with Michel Foucault and I've just begun reading his debate with the Maoists on the topic of "popular justice". So far, his preoccupation with morality as it is "shaped" by the social class structure and the different ways in which these classes carry out "justice" upon one-another seems very Nietzschean.I can relate to one poster who said "anarchists will appreciate Foucault's discussion on popular justice." From the small amount I've read, Foucault definitely seems to be characterizing the "state apparatus" as something that is predominately exploitative.(complete review coming soon).
On the one hand, it was good and it was funny.
On the other hand, I'm not certain who actually benefits from the book.
For the comments on the books I was familiar with, the pieces were somewhat interesting and occasionally helpful but mostly repetitive.
The comments on the books I had not read assumed that I had read it, and therefore found it slightly incomprehensible.
So I'm not sure for whom this book would actually be good, but I suppose it's of some use to both people who are and are not familiar with Foucault
I often felt a little bit lost as a casual reader unfamiliar with Foucault's writings. I suspect this book would be great for those who have been previously exposed to his publications, but it was definitely a dense read as a stand-alone book. I love his political/philosophocal thought, but I would definitely recommend reading the primary literature if you haven't yet. If you have already read Crime and punishment, the history of sexuality, etc, this book will absolutely be a great reference to clarify Foucault's philosophy.
Best overview (by the man himself) of Foucault's later intellectual projects of power/knowledge relations and how humans become subjects. It is all his own lectures and interviews where you can quickly familiarize yourself with his theories on the concern with the inter-relationship between power and knowledge, which makes one float ideas of subject/object relations in any area of study in the social sciences that one is interested. For the Foucault beginner "Two Lectures", "Truth and Power", and "Body/Power" are priceless.
Another first rate collection of Foucault's essays & interviews. This book covers work from the latter part of his career. The presentation is somewhat fragmented, but certain interviews (like "Truth and Power") are absolutely central to gaining a clearer understanding of what Foucault means when speaking about the mechanisms of power. A must read for anyone interested in the perplexing notion of "power/knowledge" as given to us by the great 20th century French philosopher.
