https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1800714.The_Rim_of_the_Prairie
I want to write something about this book just after my first reading.
I have a feeling when I reread it in the future I'll have noticed something more, so for now, I will write...
the characters, Nancy, Warner, Uncle Judd, Walt, Aunt Biny, and so on, are alluring and real; the kind of characters you ponder long after the story is over.
It is a love story that glimmers at many angles, a love for the prairie, for people, and for these particular people.
The loose threads of the novel come together in surprising ways, yet they never feel forced together into a stiff perfect bow— they are naturally interwoven.
A tender, well-written story about a girl growing up on a farm in Nebraska where there is a bit of mystery concerning her birth. Tornadoes, grasshoppers and well-rooted pioneers of the land come alive under Aldrich's competent pen. A worthwhile and gentle read.
Enjoyable, especially if you are a Bess Streeter Aldrich fan (which I am:)but not on the same plane as "Song of Years".
Of course I loved Uncle Jud and Aunt Biny; solid, stable, good, deep, pioneer stock!
Even so, her "transformation" is too quick and never quite deep enough.
The writing is occasionally redundant, but is interspersed with those rare, descriptive gems that make Ms. Streeter a pleasure to read.
A quick, fun jaunt, but won't stay with me as a dear friend, like "Song of Years".
What I like best about this book are some of the characters, especially Old Jud Moore and Aunt Biny, who take on an infant girl left on their door step and raise her as their own.
Nancy is the infant girl now grown and the main character.
Her easy and uncomplicated ways when interacting with other people make her very enjoyable.
A little romance, a dash of mystery and a few more interesting, quirky and genuine people turn this into a delightful novel.
Not one of her best, but still worth reading once if you really like her books.
It is trying to show that people from simple midwestern towns are as good as anyone and that there is no higher ideal than living in a rural house or writing about the glory of the prairie.
The story is much more about the town people and about setting a mood than it is about either of the main characters.
It took me about 2 months to read it on and off, interspersed with other books, to get through it, and I love several of her more popular books.
Another brilliant story by Bess Streeter Aldrich. Her writing is superb as always. The characters are fully formed and real. The story is simple, entertaining, and filled with nuggets of wisdom and the surprises truly surprised me.
Another beautiful gem from Bess Streeter Aldrich. She allows the reader to enter into her characters' lives and emotions -- all the hopes, regrets, joys, mistakes, selfishness, sacrifice. So glad I picked this up. A keeper!
This book is just like a quilt. Full of patterns, old-fashioned warmth, sprinkled with every possible emotion and a just a touch of romance. I loved it. Perhaps it is the closest thing to Song of Years that Aldrich has done.
It is set on an hill."For a long time Warner Field sat on the edge of the orchard and looked across Tinkling Creek to the rolling prairie land overhung by night and its thousand eyes."I often wonder what occupied the minds of pioneer farmers as they toiled all day in the fields.
Family."All about them the long, rolling hills lay like waves of the sea molded into solidity...the mountains hem me in.
What an endearing story, filled with quirky characters and beautiful descriptions of a part of the country that some may have a hard time finding beauty in. I have friends who don't like Nebraska, but I've been spending quite a bit of time there lately, and easily relate to the setting, and some of the small town life, even though this book was written many years ago. It was a very enjoyable read!
I loved the mystery and romance in this novel.
I really liked how the author moved from onecharacter's perspective to another, thus keeping it more interesting.I enjoyed the book even though it was a little slow; however the bookdid pick up a bit towards the end and I loved how she wrapped it up.For a while I thought she was going to leave it with them nottogether.
Sometimes I wish we could go back to thesimplicity of that time, especially after just being up at the cabin,but I love the modern facilities we have now like indoor plumbing andair conditioning.
While Nebraska's landscape enters the story, The Rim of the Prairie is primarily a story of the entertwining of peoples' lives in a small 1920s Nebraska town called Maple City.
"...so spider-fine are the threads that change the courses of our lives..."  But the setting still holds importance:"...Maple City lay almost concealed in its mass of trees.
""Of course there will be rough winds over it tearing the very dirt from the fields and there will be frightful blizzards and deluging rains, but...between these times it's like a jewel burnished to its great beauty by the very ferocity and roughness of these elements." Reading this Nebraska story highlighted the landscape through which we traveled.
I liked this book quite a bit better than A Lantern in Her Hand, which is by the same author. I did get annoyed with the attitude of the main character at times; her personality is quite a bit different than mine. Still, I did enjoy reading this book. It had many different plots which wove together in an interesting way. Synopsis: Nancy Moore and Warner Field meet each other in a strange series of events, fall in love and must untangle the webs they've created before they can live happily ever after.
I read this book at my grandmother's urging, and being of prairie stock, I thought it appropriate.I know many of my granny's generation who are enamored with this author, so perhaps it's just a generational thing, but at any rate, the book simply couldn't and didn't keep my interest. To those interested in literature of the prairie and the midwest I say: stick with Willa Cather and O.E. Rolvaag; there's a reason why they're classics and Streeter Aldrich is borderline. Just not my favorite "roots" book. Give me "Oh Pioneers!" or "My Antonia" over this anyday.
This book was set in the midwest and is based around a young woman who finds out when she is 18 that she was a foundling. When she finds out she runs away only to come back 4 years later. That is where the story begins. I liked the flow of the book. It floated around to the different characters almost like a movie would...never overextending its stay in one spot. I became attached to the little town and its characters. I thought there was kind of a cool surprise at the end.
OK, this is an oldie, but living in Nebraska now I wanted to read some Nebraska authors. Some may label this as a slow read, but I curled up one weekend and enjoyed a romance from a different era. I was pleasantly rewarded with rich characters, plot twists, refreshing prose and some Nebraska history as well.Another of Ms Aldrich's I would recommend is Spring Came on Forever.
This book was given to me as a going away present as we were moving. I think I liked it as much as I did for sentimental reasons in leaving Nebraska (the setting is early 20th century Nebraska). Bess Streeter Aldrich is an eloquent writer who has written character driven novels. The pace is fairly slow, but you can count on her for a clean, well written book.
When I was in high school I read some books by Bess Streeter Aldrich and loved them. I had bought this book at a used book store years ago and enjoyed it very much. You have to like older times and taking place in the Midwest.
I really like reading books by this author, but this is not one of my favorites.
When I first read this book, I remember thinking that it was nonfiction, so it must have felt very realistic to me.
I 1st read this book about 30 years ago but had forgotten most of it. Not one of my favorites, but since it is a BSA of course it is a good book.
this is a great book.
I picked this up by accident. It smelled good and I had no plans on reading it. Glad I did. What a beautiful writer. Looking forward to reading another book by Bess
With (above)
One of my favorites of hers. Again, one I've read several times.
