https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/317330.The_Strategy_of_Conflict
In cooperative games, coordination is necessary.
If communication is possible, then it would be best to aim for some point that you know that the other target might think of as being a valuable and important meeting point.
Bargaining is a means by which both actors can find ways to benefit, but this becomes more difficult in areas of more open conflict, as the means of communication may become impeded.
The Cuban Missile Crisis, the ultimate 'game' of brinksmanship, coordination, and negotiation, only occurred two years after this book was published.
وعند النظر لمن عمل على النسخة العربية، ترى مترجمان اثنان، والدار العربية للعلوم، وضع ثلاثة خطوط تحت العلوم، ومركز الجزيرة للدراسات..
وإذا استخدمت نظرية المؤامرة في تفسير هذا الخطأ، قد يجنح فكري أن هذه النسخة للعوام والنسخة الكاملة مخصصة لآخرين من مبدأ "ما في بالميدان غير حمدان" (مفردها حمد).وكان الحل أن أمنحه ثلاثة نجوم، من مبدأ "خير الأمور الوسط، لذلك كنا نقتل الأنبياء والمجرمين..أهمية الكتاب تنبع من أنه يفسر طريقة التفكير الأمريكية في فترة الحرب الباردة، باستخدام نظرية الألعاب الاستراتيجية..
وتكشف كيف يفكرون حتى هذه اللحظة في كل صراعاتهم التي يخوضونها بشكل مباشر أو غير مباشر..
Why MAD is sane, weakness is strength and knowledge is a disadvantage. A classic.
النسخة العربية سيئة للغاية فى طريقة ترجمتها وعرض الامثلة ..ووجد صعوبة بالغة فى فهم كثير من التفاصيل بسبب طريقة الترجمة السيئة..انصح بالنسخة الانجليزية الاصلية
To my eye, Schelling makes the following points timeless points:1.) Most real world situations are not zero-sum games.
A successful bargain generally requires some form of cooperation, otherwise both players stand to lose more than necessary.2.) In bargaining, weakness is often strength, irrationality can at times be the most rational approach, and worsening your own payoffs can allow you to win big.
Failing to take these symbolic factors into account will needlessly destroy value for both players.If you’ve got the patience and aren’t deterred by reading payoff matrices, you should spend some time with this book.
A fairly good book on strategy, but no earth shattering insights.
This is not meant to serve as a summary of main/supporting points or a critique – only as some words on how I engaged with this book for the purposes of building a theoretical framework on strategy.]-- Assigned reading for School of Advanced Air & Space Studies, chapters 1-3 & 8 only --This book by Schelling carries the idea of compellence forward into the concept of manipulating the adversary’s perception, decisions, and behavior.

If at first this reads like a pop-econ book about counter-intuitive explanations for human transactions, do not stop there.
Keep thinking about it.Schelling's description of variable sum games and bargaining seemed overbearing while I was reading it, but as soon as I finished the book I realized having the analysis systematically laid out was very helpful.
To go a step beyond the Godfather, your "friends" and "enemies" are counter-parties in bargaining games who receive different labels for strategic reasons.One chapter got into math that I didn't bother engaging with.
This may have been due to the format used; I chose it as one of my more recent audiobooks, and other reviewers have stated this is not a good audio "read." However, I believe my difficulty reading it came from a combination of the presentation of the book and the seeming obviousness of its statements.Regarding the presentation, the book seems to take what are fairly simple ideas and try to present them in a formal academic setting.
A complex and an extremely hard to follow book, the Strategy of Conflict is about the implications, nuances and tactics of non zero sum games.
The paragraphs are all about theory and little practice; the illustrations are abstract and lack annotations; thus my point about a hard to digest book.
I'd recommend other sources as stepping stone about the theory of conflict and game theory strategies; use this book as the last reference guide.
There are valuable recommendations and ideas on how to formulate conflict strategies and take advantage during these; if looking for that only, read chapter two and it should be enough.
لا انصح بقراءة الكتاب باللغة العربية
Great game theory book applicable to Cold War, linear policy theory. Contrast with The Direction of War by Hugh Strachan
A no go for audiobook.
TL;DR: Becomes repetitive, but bear with it for the ideas and mode of thinking that kept the world from blowing up while shaking up abstract game theory.
No complicated maths involved; just the sheer brilliance of his examples.Pick up a game theory textbook and most of your time will be spent proving theorems about games you can prove theorems about with fixed sums where you minimax and that’s it.
[source]Lagniappe: After I spent much time with SoC, I began thinking not about nuclear deterrence but just self-control, and it turns out, Schelling went in the same direction himself later in Choice and Control.
https://www.quora.com/Why-do-supermar...

For a book this old, written by a founder in the field, and fundamental to a range of fields people have put a lot of effort into understanding (nuclear deterrence for example) this book had a lot of surprises.
It also had some interesting insights into regular warfare too.
War is rarely a completely competitive endeavor, and often requires some mutual understanding between two opponents who don't want to push things to mutual annihilation.
This cooperation can manifest itself into tacit or written rules of war that both parties adhere to because it is in their best interests to limit themselves.
Thomas Schelling's work on states' strategic thinking was important in the 1960s. This volume, published in 1960, examines, as the title suggests, "the strategy of conflict." How does the threat of conflict or actual use of violence advance the interests of states? Schelling uses game theory to explore the logic of exploiting potential force in international bargaining situations. This book illustrates strategic thinking in the 1960s.
Classic on the game-theoretical aspects of conflicts, in particular, international relations. E.g. the whole discussion of threats/promises/credibility. It abstracts from actual conflicts, and treats them as a kind of chess game. Insightful.
كتاب جيد يستحق القراءة .... انهيتة مع احساس متزايد بالذنب اتجاهة ربما لاننى لم امنحة وقت جيد للقراءةاو ذهن صافى للفهم .... ربما اعيد قراءتة مرة اخرى .... وهل يستحق كتاب يورث قارئة الشعور بالذنب و التقصير ان يعطية قارئة الاهتمام والقراءة مرة اخرى !!!!!!!
An economic analysis of international conflict using principles from theory of choice.
very dense and hard to follow. opted for a summary of the book instead.
brilliante!
I'm not sure how I didn't hear about this book until now.
relied heavily on man as a rational actor, a lot of game theory, the only useful concept is "making the pie bigger"
borrowed from library, 1 Feb. 2014
Discusses the "Prisoner's Dilemma" game. http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Prisoner...
Very interesting book about strategy, both in games and wars. The level is more academic so it require some understanding from the reader.
An inarguable, insightful classic. More readable than I could have hoped, despite the proliferation of illustrative mathematical games...
