https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/181667.The_Vicious_Vet
After reading many glowing reviews of the Agatha Raisin series, I was pleased to find a copy of this book for 50c at our local thrift store.
It was because it's not that long a book, and I wanted to get to the end so I could find something more interesting to read.
There's a murder mystery in the book, and a lot of time spent attempting to investigate it, but Agatha's motives are not even curiosity; she simply wants to spend more time with someone who actually is interested in solving the crime.
I think I enjoyed this one a little more than the first.
Now that the set up of Agatha's move to the village is over we can jump right into village life and the next murder.
Loved Agatha scaring off James when she'd get too eager and the scene with her destroying the ladies room in the pub trying to cover up a blemish on her nose had me chuckling while reading the whole scene.
Agatha is a great character, prickly enough to be interesting but with sometimes seen softer side that keeps her likable.
A fun, quick, cozy series that I'll definitely stick with.
Enjoyed this second book in the series a bit more than book 1. Probably 4.6 as opposed to 4.5. Looking forward to reading more in the series.
But … I needed a book for a challenge, and this one was both relatively short, and fit the bill, so I decided to give Agatha Raisin another try.Agatha is still abrasive and rude, but she’s growing on me.
One of the review blurbs calls Agatha “a glorious cross between Miss Marple, Auntie Mame, and Lucille Ball, with a tad of pit bull tossed in.” (St Petersburg Times) I’m beginning to see that combination here, and I’m starting to appreciate the humor in Agatha’s character.
I got serious reader's block half way through this which spoilt it a tad, but before long I was back on track binge reading and Agatha was as amusing and infuriating as ever! I'm beginning to really like her cats as well.... Another great read from MC Beaton.
Another good read in the Agatha Raisin series.
Agatha cracks me up, and yet she has powers of observation and deduction that are superior to the local police - not sure if that is always the same in all these cozy-styled mysteries.
What marks this series from others is the very good and detailed plot and the fact that the final solution is such that you cannot figure it out in the first 50 pages as in other such books.The part about Agatha in the bathroom of a pub and trying to put on cream to hide the new pimple on her nose is hilarious, and just continues her misadventures.
Second in the highly popular Agatha Raisin murder mystery series The highly irrepressibly Agatha feels sure the attractive new village vet has taken a shine to her, yet before romance can blossom, Dr Bladen accidentally kills himself in an unfortunate incident involving a horse and a needle.
Ah well, his death serves as an excuse for her to become chummier with her neighbour James Lacey as once more they are thrown together in an amateur murder investigation...
Cosy, highly entertaining, and very English.
An incident with a wash basin in a ladies loo had me chortling in bed last night.
J'avais vu juste, ce tome 2 avec des personnages déjà connus est un bonbon anglais qui se savoure de la première à la dernière page !
Le duo, qui ne manque pas de piquant, décide d'enquêter en marge de la police et vivent quelques situations franchement drôles, on ne voit pas défiler les pages tant le caractère extraverti d'Agatha balance le côté pince sans rire de James !
La recette est connue mais décidément, les petits villages regorgent de secrets et de passions cachées, matière à bien des crimes et il faut encore suivre l'instant d'Agatha pour découvrir le coupable !
Such lovely and easy reading - can't wait to get back to the next! Don't let only 3 stars deter you from this series - the highest I've ever given a cozy is 4 stars. I love Agatha in all her sardonic self.
Well, I thought I'd give it another try, but this one is no improvement over the previous. Reviewers quoted on the cover call these books "playful", "delicious", "hilarious", "intelligent, amusing reading", and the main character "irascible but endearing". I dunno - I find her repulsive and deeply depressing - a person so utterly lacking in self-awareness that she is constantly behaving in ways that are offensive to others while simultaneously making herself miserable. Can't see the humour. I'll pass on the rest of this series.
Je continue sur ma lancée avec le deuxième tome d'Agatha Raisin, qui s'écoute très bien.Agatha est fidèle à elle-même et nombre de passages m'ont fait sourire jusqu'aux oreilles (la courte scène durant laquelle James traverse la piste de danse d'une discothèque, "tel un derviche tourneur", était savoureuse !).
Du grand Agatha raisin. C'est frais, ça se lit tout seul.
When we meet Agatha in this book, she has just returned from a holiday where she had attempted, unsuccessfully, to follow her handsome neighbour - only to find that on her return to the village of Carsely, there is a new vet causing fluttering hearts.As in the previous novel, Agatha seems unsure about whether to return to her advertising career in London or stay in Carsely; at one point, rushing off to investigate a possible business venture, which turns out to be a desperate attempt from an old business acquaintance to make her part with money.
Truth be told,I haven't read an "Agatha" book yet(and I have read the whole series) that hasn't kept me amused and entertained.
She has two lovers and deals with middle age issues like the dreaded "hairs in strange places." I started reading this series in my 30's and loved the fact that a woman in her 50's could still have fun, friends,and that naughty S** word!
I might just go back and read the entire series again now that I'm knee deep into my 40's.It might just give me something to look forward to!!
Start with book one and read to your heart's content.I promise you, you will be content!!
Wonderful. Absolutely wonderful. Great mystery, especially if you're looking for one set in England. Looking forward to the next one!
I really love this crotchety middle aged woman named Agatha.
She makes me smile and laugh because she just says it like it is.
She recently retired from public relations and is finding that she's quite bored.
The plus side for her (she has a mad wild crush on James) is that her neighbor, retired military man, James Lacey is also bored and so he accompanies her on sleuthing excursions.
This makes for a fun, fast, and satisfying read and is a cozy mystery series I will continue to pick up from time to time!
Me apetecía algo ligero después de leer algún que otro tostón y me decidí por este. Me gustó, me pareció entretenido, con una trama ligera, fácil de seguir. Me gustó mucho más que el primero. A ver, no es un gran libro, no tiene un suspense que te tenga en tensión, no es un thriller psicológico como los que están muy de moda. Es más bien un libro clásico de misterio de tipo Agatha Christie. Ligero. Rápido. Sin grandes pretensiones. Entretenido y eso era lo que esperaba de él.
There is so much to dislike about Agatha Raisin, but everyone has a soft spot for her.
She is in love with her neighbor, James Lacey, and the only point of contact they have is solving mysteries, so solving mysteries is what she does.In this mystery, a rather nasty vet is found dead and investigation shows that a number of women paid him quite a bit of money.
Why are the ladies paying him and who decided that killing him was the only way to stop him?
Agatha and James take up the investigation and bumble their way through the list of suspects, getting closer and closer to danger.
Overall, I did not find book 2 of the series quite as good as the first one.
I think that's often the case because in the first book of a series there is a lot of setting up and discovering the characters.Having said that, I did find this another enjoyable tale of busy body Agatha Raisin in the Cotswolds.
One of the side characters from the first book has a more prominent role in this one and turns out to have some surprising talents.
Not quite as good as Penelope Keith, who read the first, one and I see that subsequent books revert back to Keith.
Divertido, como siempre. Lectura amena para pasar un par de tardes agradables.
Enjoyable and I liked it better than the first one, though the incident with Agatha in the pub bathroom had a screwball element that seemed out of step with the rest of the book. I liked getting to see James Lacey's thoughts and more of the village elements. The parallel plot, albeit brief, with Agatha's flirtation with getting into business again and the murder victim's crimes were nicely done.
So, she turns her sights on the new town veterinarian, Paul Bladen.Agatha isn’t the only one interested in the new vet, though.
Agatha, herself, brings her two cats to see the handsome doctor, even though they are perfectly healthy.Much to everyone’s shock, Dr. Bladen receives an injection meant for a horse.
It’s ruled an accident but Agatha is convinced there is more to this story than meets the eye.
Agatha is still a bit cantankerous in my eyes and not very lovable, but she does love her cats.
The only thing I that sometimes gets on my nerves is her dislike of everyone (and everything) James takes an interest in.
I know she fancies the pants off James but this is a whole new level of JELOUSY!
Sound love advice from Wong though, he is a wise young fellow.
The part that intrigued me though is near the end when (view spoiler)[James talks of his past and some woman who he had an affair with!
:O (hide spoiler)].
I will be reading the rest of this series now I know it is as good as it sounds, though not necessarily in order.
Auch wenn ich diesen zweiten (für mich in der Lesereihenfolge dritten) Band um die verschrobene Agatha Raisin wieder gerne gelesen habe, nervt mich die Infantilisierung einer eigentlich interessanten Hauptfigur doch.
Da wird aus einer gestandenen Geschäftsfrau ein kicherndes Girlie, nur weil ein halbwegs passabler Mann in der Nachbarschaft rumläuft - und plötzlich hat sie nichts weiteres mehr im Kopf, als sich diesen Mann zu angeln, die Aufklärung des Mordfalls ist bloß Mittel zum Zweck, um mit "IHM" zusammen zu sein...
das ist schade, denn darüber kommt vor allem in diesem Band die Schilderung der kauzigen Dorfgemeinschaft ein wenig zu kurz.Für mich sind diese Krimis nette kleine Zwischendurch-Happen.
Aber dieses bisschen hätte ich dann doch gerne erfüllt...

Um veterinário novo chega à aldeia e começa a fazer sensação entre as senhoras que, por sua vez, começam a fazer fila com os seus gatinhos na sala de espera do consultório.Afinal de contas o homem não gosta lá muito da bicharada pequena e, depois de matar o gato da dona Josephine, aparece morto com uma injeção para cavalo (literalmente!
lol)!
Isto, claro, tem todos os ingredientes para chamar a atenção de Agatha!O que eu me ri, neste livro, com os desencontros, desentendimentos e figurinhas que a Agatha faz com o James.
'No wonder' que ele fuja a sete pés a achar que ela é maluca!
OK, I have to admit I binge read seven books in the series, so they all sort of blend together, sort of....There is a new vet in town and all the ladies are seeming to need to bring their pets to see him, including Agatha..... soon, the vet is killed, and there are plenty of suspects... Agatha of course gets into the middle of it all.... she also starts crushing on her next-door neighbor James, who ends up helping her, solve this mystery.....
Ce n'est pas un coup de coeur car il m'a manqué une petite "étincelle" mais j'ai adoré le personnage d'Agatha, je la trouve attachante et en même temps un peu emm*rdante. L'intrigue est bien ficelée, j'avais soupçonné quelqu'un d'autre que le vrai coupable. Bref, j'en relirai avec plaisir :)
A really fun read! Agatha Raisin is an absolute hoot! I picture Judi Dench as Agatha Raisin.
I read the beginning book in this series quite a long time ago, and I remembered really liking it.
I am even questioning if I remember the reading experience of the first book well enough...I really was frustrated with the character of Agatha.
Not because of her unlikeableness, because I love my fair share of unlikeable main characters as long as they act believable...
I get it, she is kind of in spinster mode and longs for some romance, but that does not make me believe that a woman in her 50s is such a stupid cow who acts like a 14 year old girl.
