https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/34548.If_Chins_Could_Kill
Had I my druthers, I would have signed Campbell to a three-volume deal, but it's clear that Campbell is not taking the stance of a bigwig gracing the little people with details into his personal life, and that's another refreshing item about this book, in that it is full of warm self-deprecation and even a little bit of amazement at where he has come to.
Campbell has achieved the status of being an actor who may be mostly known for B-grade movies, but conveys himself in this book to have a more than A-grade wit and personality, and this is hands-down the best autobiography of a star I have ever read.
I really liked The Adventures of Brisco County Jr when I was younger, too.
Bruce Campbell is like Stephen King in that the thing that he's best known and most loved for happened super early in his career.
King has The Shining and The Stand, his two big hits, and Bruce Campbell has the Evil Dead franchise and Brisco County Jr. But other than those things, I probably couldn't have named one other thing that Bruce Campbell was in.
But man, the work stuff was good, especially about the start of his career and Evil Dead.
I finally got all the Quarry books & was dying to read them, so why did I read this instead? Am I a FAN? A Deadite? Yeah, sort of. I've loved the Evil Dead movies since... well, a really long time, and I've liked Bruce Campbell's acting. He doesn't seem to take himself too seriously & his on-screen sense of humor seems to mesh well with mine. After reading this book, I understand why.Let me qualify this by saying I'm not much for following actors or famous people. When I heard Mel Gibson
well, a really long time, and I've liked Bruce Campbell's acting.
I watch his movies for entertainment - nothing else.If you like the typical glitzy Hollywood story, this isn't for you.
I was quite surprised by some of the things he was subjected to, often because his boyhood friend, Sam Raimi (Spiderman director) was delighting in torturing him while in the throes of yet another artistic vision & short on cash.
Campbell has both my thanks for all the entertainment he's provided me & my respect for having the courage to make a decent living in this weird industry.
It's a "pre-Burn Notice" "memoir" from Bruce Campbell (the only person to ever "almost" convince me to try Old Spice).
In fielding "realistic battles" it was at times necessary to use actual fire...in secret of course as parents didn't seem to understand the need and felt playing with matches [the ones you'd sneaked out of that drawer in the kitchen you weren't supposed to get into] was "dangerous".
Anyway, Campbell mentions the great zzzllliiippp noise that the burning plastic made as it dripped...
[I almost burned our barn down once while fielding a battle.
Within minutes of leaving for the first location, an abandoned bridge, the production van got lost and we spent a half-hour trying to locate it.
Things were going pretty well, until Josh spotted a large bull glaring at the crew."Sam...
Apparently he was well enough to get up under his own power, but he was taken to the hospital for some tests.Other than that, day one was very productive.A week later, shooting a night scene at the same bridge location, Sam had a little run-in with a tree branch.
This is a review of the audiobook version - The King of the Bs takes a breezey, light-hearted trip down memory lane.
Anecdote rich and often funny, this account covers Bruce's career up until 2001, from his early years making Super 8 shorts with Sam Raimi and Robert Taipert, through the arduous but ultimately career launching production of The Evil Dead and on through the occasional ups and frequent downs of life as a member of 'the Hollywood lower-middle class'.
Hercules and Xena fans will find plenty to enjoy in the later chapters and the addendum provides an insight into the difficulties of undertaking a book-tour in the aftermath of 9/11.
I don't think I'd seen Evil Dead yet.
No doubt I'd seen some Xena episodes and fell madly in love with Autolychus.
At any rate, and needless to say, I've been a fan of BRUCE ever since.My overwhelming memory of this book is that I'd had eye surgery and couldn't read, so I had it read to me while I lay in a dark room feeling sorry for myself.
I remember that more than what was in the book, which I still know was epic and awesome and on par with Holy Writ.
After hearing Bruce kick all this @$$ on Wait Wait Don't Tell Me, was reminded to put this on at the top of the to-reads.Having been raised on the Evil Dead (culminating in my official designation by Bruce Campbell himself as the "#1 fan", in writing, on my VHS copy), I was excited to read those parts of the book, and Bruce didn't disappoint.
That kind of spunk would have made me dig Bruce Campbell even if his good humor, wit, Evil Dead pedigree, and bite-sized chapter layout hadn't already done the job.
Of course it's funny.
Of course it's brilliant.
Campbell has starred in B-movies, been a bit actor in blockbusters, and has also both directed and written for film/t.v. Even more, his first films are on Super-8.
The book outlines the gangs' career from their garage,s to raising their own money for theatrically released independent films (Evil Dead et al), to being given $$$ budget by the big movie houses for Hollywood smash hits (Spiderman, Quick and the Dead).
Book also includes Evil Dead's homemade recipe for fake blood.
So I met Bruce Campbell.
I have read a handful of biographies and most of them at some point were pompous and these writers spoke about themselves in a way to separate themselves from common people...
with that said Bruce does not do that.
He does not see himself as a huge star and pokes fun at himself along the way.
This Bio is something unlike anything else ever written because it seems that Bruce is just a common man whos done common things in a uncommon way.
Great book! Bruce Campbell's storytelling of how he made it in the behind the scenes of Hollywood was funny and entertaining. Even if you don't know who Bruce Campbell is (which I know you've seen him in something) read this book.
Love it. Listened this one on audio and it was very cool to hear Bruce read his book (with the occasional update). I am a big fan of Bruce’s movies and it was cool to hear him talk about some behind the scenes stuff and how him and some of his friends, like Sam Raimi, got started.
It's Bruce Campbell. 'nuff said. If you need more, suffice to say that I still to this day paraphrase anecdotes from the bit about filming Evil Dead (I &II)... --MK
Bruce Campbell has a bit of a cult following from a number of things he's done (Evil Dead / Army of Darkness, Brisco County Jr., Xena, and possibly even Burn Notice even if that happened after the time covered in this memoir), and if you were a fan of his you'd know.
He also seems to have his feet on the ground; you can tell in some actors' memoirs their idea of reality and normal behavior is not the same as most peoples', and Bruce isn't like that.
I desperately want him to write one about his time doing Xena and Hercules.
There were many, many times in the book that made me laugh out loud.
After reading this, I realized I would never want to read a book about the celebrity gods of Hollywood.
The reason it was so good was because it was about a man who loved something so much, he didn't care how small a part he played in it; he just wanted to get in there and do it.
I love that.
This book made me want to track down all his movies.
And I only read "If Chins Could Kill" because I felt like I had to.It turned out to be a great book, and it gave me a lot of respect for Bruce Campbell as a person and an actor.Campbell has truly worked his way up from the bottom (I don't think it gets much lower than community theater in Michigan), and he really understands all aspects of theater and film because he's done every crappy job in the two industries.
And he treats everyone along the way with respect.You don't get much greater than that.
I took this book out of the library on recommendation from a friend, but wasn't really expecting much out of it.
Sure, I love Bruce Campbell as much as the next Hercules/Xena/Spiderman movies fan does, but I usually find these autobiographies dry and boring, filled with technical details of things I just don't care about.
As much as I love memoirs, if it's in the autobiography section (as this was), I shy away.
Sure it is, but he KNOWS how boring it is to readers and finds a way to make it entertaining.
The whole book is just extremely endearing.
The populair cult-hero Bruce Campbell, famous of his character 'Ash' in the Evil-Dead trilogy, describes in this biography his youth and happenings about the making of 'Evil Dead'.But also his share in some Xena-episodes.While reading you will find a lot of (funny) pictures of Bruce himself, but also drawings made in his youth, in fact..
a lot of various pictures/photo's prominent throughout the book.This is wrote with the humour you can expect of Bruce.
But what I remember most about it is the brutal honesty and tongue and cheek approach to that Campbell took toward his life and career.
Most importantly, I remember reveling in some of the details involved in becoming a B-list icon.
The way Campbell had to cold call prospective investors for the first Evil Dead movie; his time spent as a security guard after the Evil Dead movies.
These are the details that make you feel such a strong connection with Campbell--it also helps the reader connect the person with the "every day persona" he displays on the screen.
3.5-4 stars. A fun read overall for Evil Dead & B movie fans.
'If Chins Could Kill' is the biography of Bruce Campbell, star of the 'Evil Dead' movie series, TV's 'Brisco County Jr.,' and more.
The 2002 paperback edition also includes a 39-page addendum: 'Chins Across America, The Tour,' in which Campbell discusses his book tour in 2001 for the hardcover edition.
Through most of the book he talks about his friends he grew up with and made the first 'Evil Dead' with, including Sam Raimi, who went on to produce and/or direct such mega-hits as 'Spiderman.' Throughout the book, Campbell's humor is apparent.
I loved the humorous captions!All Bruce Campbell fans will find something to like in this book.
(Most of the rest, amazingly, have never even heard of him.) As he observes at one point in the book, the difference between a mainstream movie and a cult movie is that the former might be seen by 100,000 people 10 times whereas the latter is seen by 10 people 100,000 times.His autobiography is one of the most fun - and funny - books on the movie industry I've read in some time, which makes sense considering his career.
I'd say reading his anecdotes from movie sets, fan convents and his personal life (man, Sam Raimi comes across as the most lovable utter asshole ever) feels almost like spending an evening just shooting the breeze with Bruce Campbell, but...
well, it's such a quick read, it basically IS an evening shooting the breeze with Bruce Campbell.
Bruce Campbella mám rád, jenže popis dětských vylomenin (nic extra), prvních vztahů (zcela normální) a cesty k herectví (série omylů a Sam Raimi) byl tak nezajímavý, že mu frajerské podání "s nadhledem" škodilo.
Po čistce knihovny měla odejít do světa a já zjistil, že jí mám od Campbella podepsanou.
Jakmile se Campbell - a psal si to sám - dostane za svá telecí léta, noří se do světa béčkových filmů, Hollywoodu a seriálů, které definovaly jednu generaci (Herkules, Xena, Akta X a další).
Campbell sice občas sice provede zbytečný name dropping, ale jinak píše s pokorou k řemeslu a úctou ke čtenáři.
Campbell, star of the Evil Dead films, starts from his surprisingly industrious childhood, through the physical tortures of his friendship with Sam Raimi (who would go on to direct the Spiderman films, among others), and into his career as a full-time actor.
Not only is it a fascinating look into the making of Evil Dead and Hercules, it's downright hilarious.
Campbell writes the way he speaks, a sort of campy monologue full of entertaining anecdotes.
Definitely recommended, not only to Bruce Campbell fans, but also to aspiring filmmakers.
It's amazing what Raimi and co.
I look forward to Campbell's other books.
This was okay-ish. Campbell isn't a great writer, but he does seem like a genuinely great guy who is very thankful for his success. The book, however, just sort of seems to skim the surface of his life. I guess I was just hoping for something a bit more interesting, rather than a quick rehash of how he got to where he was. Shame on me, I guess, for wanting more gossip-y stuff, but that would have been more compelling.
I adore Bruce Campbell and this book only helped deepen that adoration. He's a witty, fun read, with insights to the industry that only someone on the inside of Hollywood hoopla can provide. It illustrates his journey from childhood to B-movie star with moments that are touching, hilarious, quirky, and just plain fun to read.
Hey its the dude from Evil Dead writing about his life and his friend Sam Raimi (who went on to direct Spiderman) and how in college they made Evil Dead. No money, colored mashed potato for gore and eventually a funny horror movie too.This book is the same. A funny horror movie. Bruce is a funny man and his life sort of sucks but he'll tell you about it anyway. Loved it!
A book by and about my favorite actor. This is a biography about a humble actor in his dealings with B-movies and other B-actors and TV shows -- from Within the Woods (prototype to the Evil Dead series) to current.
If you’re even remotely aware of infamous B-Movie actor Bruce Campbell, then you should know before going into If Chins Could Kill that it will not be your typical “From Rags to Riches” sojourn of an actor rising above the crop and earning their star on Hollywood Boulevard.
The kind of clothes that will always look fine and dandy, but might raise an eyebrow or two in the audience of any Sydney Theatre Production.In essence, the Bruce Campbell story is not one of renowned success.
The man could read me bedtime stories any night.Great book!
This may be one of my favorite memoirs I've ever read.
Bruce's anecdotes are hilarious and provided a new perspective to the making of some of my favorite films.
On a personal note, it's also inspiring to read about the amount of work that went into getting the first Evil Dead film funded and made.
Puts the life of an author in perspective and shows that with a little hard work, it can all pay off.For fans of Bruce's work, or just those who want a good laugh about the ins and outs of the movie industry, be sure to check this one out.
