https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/64401.Another_Fine_Myth
It has everything a good humorous fantasy is supposed to have: great puns, amusing dialog, absurd laugh-out-loud situations, colorful and equally amusing characters.
However it took Sir Terry Pratchett at least 3 books to become funny; this one makes you smile practically on the second page.
I can recommend this series to anybody who needs a good laugh; it also works great as a cure for a book hangover (my personal experience).
"-HAMLETAnother Fine Myth follows Skeeve, who is apprenticed to a magician.
No relation to Oz. Aazh is also a magician, but has been stripped of his powers, and so offers to teach Skeeve to better use his own budding abilities, doing them both a service and thus forming a new master / apprentice duo.
What follows is an adventure that takes Skeeve to new dimensions and entertains throughout, with a regular doses of humour served up through fun banter, crazy characters, and unlikely situations.Lighthearted and amusing, Another Fine Myth is a quick, enjoyable read that is perfect material for that not sure what to read moment.
I read quite a few of the books in this series several years ago.
I remembered enjoying it then, so I thought I'd give it a re-read now and see if the magik was still there.
It's a lot of fun and always keeps you guessing as to what will happen next.Also, at only 200 pages, this book makes for a nice, quick break from other more weighty readings.
I hope that I'm right in remembering that the rest of the series continues to be this enjoyable and I look forward to joining Skeeve and the gang again very soon.
Unabridged audio.Skeeve was a magician's apprentice, until the magician got killed that is.
"Demon"-that's short for "Dimensional Traveler".
Things just go from bad to worse once they find that he (the Dimensional Traveler that is, the demon) is stuck in Skeeve's dimension, a real backwater.
See as I said, Skeeve is just an apprentice.
The "demon" (Aahv)instead of killing Skeeve explains that he is a wizard in his own dimension.
You see there are thousands of dimensions, Skeeve's is Klah, this makes those who live there...Klahds, there are others, for example if you're from the dimension of Deva you're a Devil.
Thanks, Evgeny, for turning my attention to this book ;) The story in “Another Fine Myth” is filled with humor, puns and it is quick, easy, and a pure delight to read.
Such things as death, serious feelings have no major attention and there isn’t much of character development but there are other books in the series (and quite a lot), so I really hope to know more about the main characters.
I was happy to meet the green haired assassin as I enjoy rough-tough female characters and I hope to read about her more.
I'm not a massive fan of books that have the main focus on humor, but I was pleasantly surprised by how much I laughed while reading this.
Skeeve is an apprentice magician who's master is unfortunately assassinated while summoning a demon.
Skeeve and the Demon are forced into an unlikely alliance with hilarious consequences and they flee the assassins and plot to foil the plans of the mad wizard who hired them.
The secondary characters were a diverse bunch who provided plenty of laughs.
Skeeve's world of Klah is just one of many in a diverse universe.
3.0 stars. This was a fun, quick read that I would compare to the "Discworld" novels as far as the "light hearted" tone of the novel (though in my opinion the Discworld novels are better). The book did have some interesting ideas (my favorite being the "Great Bazaar" in the realm of the Devas which I thought was very cool). All and all, a pretty good, "light" story. I will certainly read the next book in the series.
Adventure with a smart mouthed demon and his cheeky apprentice3 February 2015 One of the main reasons that I read this book was because it kept on appearing on the Goodread's sidebar entitled 'Readers also enjoyed' which I suspect has something to do with all of the Terry Pratchett books that I have read. Okay, I generally don't pay all that much to Goodreads recommendations, but when I was much younger a friend of mine was really into the series and he had been trying to get me to read them as
As I said, it is not satire in the vein of Terry Pratchett where the story pokes fun at modern society through the lens of a fantasy world, but rather a couple of larger than life cartoonish characters making their way through the adventure (though not necessarily stumbling because Aahz at least knows what he is doing and what is going on) poking fun at each other and those around them, and in a way outsmarting their enemies without actually drawing any blood (which also adds to the lighthearted aspect of this story).
Each book is essentially a caper where Asprin weaves a huge cast of vivid characters into entertaining and often amusing situations.
What I like about these books is that Skeeve and Ahz and company don't win the day by being the strongest or the most powerful.
The humor is situational and character driven, but also makes extensive use of puns and pop culture references (though some of those are a bit dated at this point).
I plan on reading more of the series whenever I want to take a break between other books for something more refreshing and fun.
This was one I picked up as a daily deal that was a very cute fantasy with many different characters from other dimensions.
A fun twist on the mystical scale Skeeve is a magicians apprentice and when his master is killed he and his new master set out on a quest to find his killer.
His new master is a hoot and you never know if he is telling the truth or not.
While cloaked in different appearances they go to different dimensions and pick up a few friends along the way.
A great story for all ages and the narrator was very good with all the different voices.
I embarked on this read with low expectations as to the story and characters and high ones for having a few good laughs. I was very pleasantly surprised to get an interesting bank of characters and a fun story, apart from funny dialogue that made me laugh more often than not. Skeeve and his demon master Aahz were both quite funny and likable and I loved their banter. The secondary characters were also quite amusing. I'm looking forward to reading the next installment in the series. The narrator Jeff Woodman did a fantastic job!
A favorite book.
The naive Skeeve and his unwilling demon (that's dimension traveler,kid)are hilarious.Aahaz (pronuounced Oz) is from the dimension of Perv which makes him a Pervert--excuse me Pervect.
The quotes at the beginning of each chapter are an added giggle.
Deveels, trollops-- and baby dragons who eat your clothes--a backwoods hick apprentice and wordly city demension traveling magic user without his powers added up to a lot of fun.
Deveels are from Deva and the sharpest salesmen around.
Get a good deal from a Deveel's booth at the Bazaar on Deva and you'd better count your fingers and toes.
This is the first of Robert Asprin's "Myth" series. While a light hearted, easy read it's still quite funny. The gags and word plays are a riot. I'd reconmend this series for anyone ages 10+ into fantasy. Even though Skeeve might be a Klahed, he's quite quick witted. He'd have to be since his teacher/best friend is a Pervert ... excuse me, Pervect ;). So grab a D hopper, settle back, and join our heroes romp.
It was fun to finally read this book! I had so many preconceived notions about it since I had read small parts when Q read it many years ago, but happily I wasn't disappointed. It was very fast moving and easy to read, and funny, but not as slap-stick as I had thought it might be. It is still not my typical type of book to read (hence the 3 stars instead of 4), but it was nice for a change, and I will likely read the rest of the series someday.
I'm pretty sure I read at least the first three of the Myth Adventures series. I found them pleasantly amusing but, as with a lot of these parodies, the joke grew stale after a while and I lost interest.
Probably not a great book, but I read it young, and it occupies a special place in my heart.
I discovered “Myth Adventures” as a comic book drawn by Phil Foglio and read that, borrowing some issues from a friend and buying others.
The title “Another Fine Myth” SOUNDED like a sequel, so I wound up starting with “Myth Conceptions” (number 2 in the series), and didn’t get back to reading this one, I think, for several years.
Aahz, a dimension travelling resident of the world called Perv (“Demon” is short for “dimension traveler”), discovers that Garkin has stolen his magical powers as a practical joke, and thus he cannot return home for 100 years, so he takes on Skeeve as an apprentice and takes up the avenging Garkin’s death.
U početku mi se knjiga nije nešto dopala.
Ali sa svako pročitanom stranicom rasla je i moja privrženost prema Aahzu i Skeevu.
Humor koji mi je u početku bio dječiji postajao mi je sve draži i draži.
Par puta sam se nasmija do suza.
Slično kao i Spakovski on uzima poznate stvari ali ih koristi na skroz drugačiji način te se poigrava s našim spoznajama o demonima, vragovima, jednorozima i zmajevima i još mnogim drugim stvarimaEvo jedan citat koji me izuo iz cipela od smjeha :)"I don't believe I've had such a good time since I made love to my week-dead sister."
If you crave for a new taste in fantasy-comedy (other than Discworld) and you're willing to ignore the plot that seems like a fifth grade stage play, unbelievably gullible paper-thin characters and the most incompetent villain in the history of the genre, there might be something for you here. Myth's sf/f plane-hopping setting and whacky characters that communicate almost exclusively in comedic (often hilarious) banter has a certain unique charm that immediately grows on you, making you forget the book's flaws and wanting for more (luckily, there's plenty of that)
Очень забавная и легкая история для разгрузки мозга =) Прочитала ее с удовольствием. Приятно было погрузиться в столь необычный мир, познакомиться с такими чудными и разными героями. Поначалу меня немного раздражала дикая наивность главного героя, но потом даже это стало нравиться, потому что приземляло его и придавало обаяния и необычности. Ну а Ааз...змей просто шикарен! =)
A quick, fun read! I really enjoyed the story line, the characters and the comic misadventures they find themselves in. The wacky conversations between Skeeve and Aahz are very funny and make this book a very entertaining read!I had no idea that "Another Fine Myth" was the first in a series, what a nice surprise! Now I can’t wait to read the rest of the books in the series:)
Instead, what is Old is new again, or rather, it should be!I just listened to Another Fine Myth by Robert Asprin, and narrated by Noah Michael Levine.
And the voices by Noah take the laugh-out-loud character to a whole new level of laughter.
Though Robert is now gone from us, his collaboration with Jody Lynn Nye means that the wonder of the tale lives on, and it is well worth the journey of discovery!Skeeve, the main character of the series, is an apprentice wizard.
When the Wizard is killed, Skeeve is stuck now with the Demon Aahz, summoned from his own world, and none too happy about it.
I recently had a conversation about how many movies are wish fulfillment about slacker everymen who are thrust into importance, causing everyone else in the world to put their lives on hold to assist their mission.
And while I loved The LEGO Movie, Another Fine Myth is a fine alternative: it's the story of a slacker everyman who's roped into a demon's scheme and is dragged along, his life being put on hold for the antics of the journey.
Skeeve, now without a magic teacher and employer, becomes Aahz's pupil, mostly learning to dupe people on a grand quest to regain the demon's powers and get him back home.
Honestly, I'm not interested in any of those, or any of the ones he co-wrote, but the idea of re-reading the series again, as an adult, made me giddy.The book holds up remarkably well.
Gleep and Tanda are introduced along the way, and really, that's all that's necessary to get this story going.
There was still a madcap feel to the story, and the banter between Aahz and Skeeve worked, and honestly, that was why I was reading the books.
I remember her that way, but I'm always a little concerned that stories of this age (almost 40 years!) carry some of the baggage of their eras.
The plot itself wasn't anything to write home about really, and the climax and denouement are a bit hard to follow at first.
Despite that, the book is an enjoyable read and a breath of fresh air from the things I have been reading and writing lately.
I look forward to reading more of this series in the hope that Asprin keeps the laughs going, but maybe adds a bit more plot now that he has established characters.Briefly, I just wanted to add here that I cannot believe this book was first published in 1978.
The writing style has a bit of a timeless quality to it.
I read the book once or twice more in the next couple years, but it had probably been close to twenty years since I last read it when I decided to give it another run through yesterday.It holds up surprisingly well.
I'd definitely suggest that you either look for a heavily discounted used copy or pick up the two-in-one that includes the second book in the series.
The cost-per-page aside, the low page-count is probably a mark in the novel's favor, leaving no room for it to run out of steam.
Ready enjoyable witty fantasy, pure silly fun but with warmer characters than other satire I've read.The story begins with a poor thief turned apprentice magician Skeeve who meets a 'Pervert sorry Pervect' demon called Aahz, who was summoned to jazz up one of Skeeves's lessons.
Nevertheless, I enjoyed everything else, so a solid 4 star from me, i'm looking forward to the rest of the series.Addition: Other reviewers who commented on the Pratchett similarity are entirely right, Asprin comes a close second in terms of satirical wordplay, role reversal of traditional characters and character-reader in-jokes (breaking the 4th wall?).
What follows is a madcap series of adventures in which each relies upon the other to make their way through the many dimensions of the world as they try to restore Aahz’s powers.I read this as a young teen and enjoyed it tremendously and it holds up fairly well in my adult years.
I’d recommend this to any fantasy fan in need of a light read with some madcap humor.Asprin wrote the first eleven books in the series from 1978 to 1993 and then restarted in 2002 with on novel by himself and then seven more in conjunction with his partner Jody Lynn Nye. He died in 2008.
Meet Skeeve, son of a set-in-his-ways farmer and a mother who taught him a love of books.
His master, being outfoxed by his own cunningness, soon ends up dead and leaves Skeeve with a new trainer – a grouchy demon from the dimension Perve.
Realizing that he might soon meet his own death, Skeeve flees away on bizarre adventures with Aahz and soon makes some unusual new friends – and foes.
I very seldom find myself saying this about a book, but this piece of writing would likely be more convincingly conveyed as a movie.
Skeeve, a young thief turned magician’s apprentice, is suddenly and reluctantly thrust into the world of adventuring, assassins, demons and dimension-hopping when his teacher is killed and a reptilian “demon,” the Pervect Aahz, takes him in.
Having lost his powers, Aahz continues to train Skeeve, and together they try to stop the madman Isstvan from taking over his homeworld, Klah.This is where it all started, the first Myth Adventures book.
With a decidedly light approach, puns galore, and its emphasis on the coming of age, life-lessons prose, this book set the tone for the rest of the series.
