https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/9637479-dragon-bound
:D Is it terribly shallow to admit that I snapped up this book because I heard there was hot *whispers* dragon sex in it?
I rarely read paranormal romances these days, but all of the reviews I saw for this book were raves, so I was wild with curiosity.
Dragos is a very, um, masculine guy and he's overwhelmingly attracted to Pia. The rumors of crazy dragon sex in this book were not exaggerated, but what I also love is that the relationship between them is portrayed with a great deal of respect and tenderness.
Dragon Bound is the 1st book in Thea Harrison's Elder Races Series.
A world where shape-shifters, vampires, dragons and humans all trying to live together.I loved this book.
An unique and fresh plot, romance, tension, action, unforgettable characters, exotic settings and great dialogue.Dragos & Pia are my new favorite fiction couple.
He's sexy, possessive and totally dangerous!!!!
Not afraid to stand up to Dragos......I enjoyed the way their relationship developed through the story.There are so many incredible characters that are introduced and I can't wait to read their stories.Dragon Bound was absolutely fabulous and I am looking forward to reading the entire series.
Ms. Harrison knows how to write this kind of hero very well!Dragos is like a Harlequin Presents hero done well (with an intensity times one hundred).
Sick girl that I was, I liked that even though Pia found him hot and fell in love with him, she could still see he was a scary guy.
It was a sweet moment for this little girl who has never truly grown up inside).I loved Dragos' crew, especially Graydon (who reminded me of Butch from the Black Dagger Brotherhood series by JR Ward), and Tricks (a very hip elf who works as Dragos' PR rep and happens to be the true heir to Throne of the Dark Fae).
Not since diving into the addictive worlds of J.R. Ward’s bold, unbeatable Black Dagger Brotherhood, Lara Adrian’s mesmerizing Midnight Breed, Larissa Ione’s distinctive, dark Demonica, and Nalini Singh’s unique Psy-Changeling have I gotten such a thrill from discovering a new paranormal romance series.
I’m ecstatic that I’ve found a new series that’s got me excited about paranormal romance once again!Dragon shifter Dragos is one of the most ancient and powerful Wyr in the world and his rule over New York City is absolute.
With a hotter-than-hell, possessive alpha hero, a quirky, feisty heroine, fast-paced action, clever dialogue, sexy banter, snarky humor, scorching sexual tension, strong, intriguing secondary characters, and steamy love scenes, Dragon Bound has everything I crave in a romance.
You know what is totally awkward?
Pretty soon I’m going to read a new release where the main character wears backwards overalls like Kriss Kross with one buckle undone, a hypercolor shirt, and Airwalks.
So I started it again as an audiobook and half listened, half read it the second time round.
Plus, you know, *cough* there may or may be some sexy dragon scenes.
While the reader knows the answers to several of these questions (and can probably guess the answer to the last one if they’ve read enough in the genre), the well-paced plot and action scenes kept me entertained until the last page.
Loved Dragos and Pia. They meet after Pia achieves what no other has done before and steals from the Wyr leader.
She goes on the run and he catches more than just his little thief.
The connection between the two was strong.
I loved Pia as a heroine because though she was physically weaker she was of strong conviction.
The story was full of great action, progressive plot development, and written well.
The characters are complex, unique, and pretty darn awesome.
The world that the writer has created is captivating.
Safety: No OW/OM/Sharing, though Pia's story starts off with ex boyfriend drama.
4 1/2–I'm In Love With A Dragon–Stars! There are so many fantastic reviews for this book that my two cents won't bring anything new to the table, so I'll just say that if you like paranormal romance, this is one of the best. It's delightful, unique, humorous, and, oh, so sexy. To top it off, I dare you not to fall head-over-heels in love with a dragon!
There usually are two possible outcomes when I read Freaking PNR Novels (FPN™):➽ 99,99% of the time, these delightful pieces of literature make me feel like this:➽ 0,01% of the time, a miracle happens I lose all judgement, and end up feeling like this:Yeah, I get all pink and levitate and shake and stuff.Well that was until today.
Dragos and Pia   “You took a 1962 penny,” Dragos said. His teeth were gritted. “You left a 1975 penny. It’s no replacement.”She stared at him. “Oh my God, it’s scary you noticed that.”“I know everything in my hoard and exactly where it is,” he told her. “Down to the smallest piece.”“You could go to a doctor, get checked out for OCD,” she panted. “There might be medication for that.”His chest moved in a silent laugh.  My God! I love Dragos! And Pia. You cannot find easily a couple so well matche
“You took a 1962 penny,” Dragos said.
“Oh my God, it’s scary you noticed that.”“I know everything in my hoard and exactly where it is,” he told her.
She did that in order to save her douche ex-boyfriend by someone powerful (unknown in the beginning) who wanted something (anything) that belonged to Dragos Cuelebre, i.e.
What Pia needs to realize really soon is that Dragos has already included her in his collection:
The chemistry between Pia and Dragos is explosive:
Dragos starts as a stubborn scary monster with OCD and as the book proceeds, he will melt for Pia.So this is an alternative world full of magic.
Dragon Bound was the best new paranormal that I have read in a long time, I am so glad to finally be excited about a new paranormal series.Pia Giovanni is forced to do something that is basically suicidal - steal something from the most powerful dragon shifter in the world.
Despite Pia's protests that he can't just own a person, she is in for a losing battle against a powerful alpha like Dragos.
I loved Dragos, he was so alpha and possessive but he also tried to accommodate Pia and make her happy (in his life of course).
“So, is that your long, scaly, reptilian tail, or are you just happy to see me?” This is funny, paranormal smut. The guy is a dragon, and the girl shifts into something so OTT that you will have to laugh.Is that my voice?So, our girl, Pia, steals a penny from the dragon-man, Dragos, and he's pretty pissed off. Until he gets a whiff of her lovely girly smell. You all know by now that girls smell like sunshine and flowers and boys smell like leather and masculine trees. It's nature.Could be worse
“So, is that your long, scaly, reptilian tail, or are you just happy to see me?”
A lot worse.Instead of killing her, he finds himself falling for her.
“Did you kill the Fae horses?” Dragos said in a cautious voice,“Was I not supposed to?” She shrugged.
It is a match made in heaven.As long as you come into this book understanding that it's fluffy smut, you will have a good time with it.
As for me, I'm happy with this smutty little dragon-filled world for now.
First read of paperback, July 22, 2011. See below for audiobook comment.★★★★★ Yes, five full stars! One of the best paranormal/fantasy books I’ve read this year! I wanted to read it faster, but real life got in the way. As it was, I had it planned for a future “buddy read” and peeked at the first few pages. Three chapters later I was e-mailing my GR friend to hint around about moving this one up in our queue; luckily, she agreed. Ha! Indeed, she finished the book before I did. This is the first
One of the best paranormal/fantasy books I’ve read this year!
I wanted to read it faster, but real life got in the way.
She stole her way into my heart in no time flat.If the bad guy is obvious from almost the beginning, who cares?
The interaction and dialogue between Dragos and Pia alone is worth the price of the book.
* “Stalkerific” is a term coined by the creative Lady Danielle; however, in true Pia inspired fashion, I stole it from her.
May 5, 2012 (Comment on audiobook.) Loved this one so much in paperback, I had to get the audio and listen to it again.
There were things I DID NOT enjoy about it, that take the stars down, but honestly I'm picking up the next book, so clearly I liked it and feel like this series can only get better.
I seriously noticed I felt happy when the Dragon dude hugged the "so helpless I want to kick her" heroine.
I love how the author basically is telling the audience, yes this is seriously not PC to have a dude this controlling and chauvanist and jealous, but I'm writing this book about it anyway, because some base thing is going on here and I'm embracing it.
Now my rating may be a bit high, but I will explain why (and I have low standards for dragon books anymore):- The dragon guy was a badass monster.
She had mad thieving skills, even if she was way too morally sound to use them.
For the most part, this book was good - the dragon was alpha scary and the heroine wasn't a crying pain in the ass.
My standards for dragon novels is low.
I was pretty happy after I read violence and sexy times, that's a huge improvement over previous books.
Then her life explodes full of emotions - both positive and negative combined, and nothing is never the same.I enjoyed the world building, the different Fae creatures, and the Happily Ever After, which is the big sale for me in all Romance Genres.
He could have been stronger, she could have been more consistent in her reactions, and the romance was predictable, but it gave me the smiles and relief that at least in books Happily Ever Afters are still possible!!!
This is for all Romance lovers, but even more for those who like their love mixed with Magic and the Shifter classics.
Reto #4 PopSugar 2018: Un libro que involucre un robo Relectura de uno de mis libros favoritos de todos los tiempos... y.... me gustó tanto como la primera vez! Incluso, si es posible, me he enamorado aún más de Dragos. Me derritió cuando aprende a decir “por favor” y luego lo usa para todo; es un manipulador de lo más encantador! También me sigue gustando el acierto de la autora al caracterizar la personalidad wyr de la pareja principal con los antagonistas más inmemoriales de la literatura fa
También me sigue gustando el acierto de la autora al caracterizar la personalidad wyr de la pareja principal con los antagonistas más inmemoriales de la literatura fantástica, son la esencia del bien y el mal tratando de complementarse.Reseña primera lectura:Realmente lo he pasado fenomenal leyendo este libro.
Magia, pasión, seres sobrenaturales, fantásticos y mitológicos, mezclados con sumo cuidado en una historia muy original, del estilo fantasy–urban, que atrapa desde las primeras páginas.
Diálogos exquisitos y muy ácidos, que sacan más de una sonrisa en el lector, sobre todo por la personalidad de Pía.
Pia, a half-breed, is blackmailed by her ex-boyfriend into stealing something from the dragon's vault.She does just that, attracting the attention of the one and only dragon on earth, Dragos.
And of course Pia is a special snowflake and Dragos mates with her.
"I think you’re my hero," she said.
"Most people," he said, "think I am a very bad man."She studied his eyes to try to find out if that bothered him.
"Well," she said at last, "maybe you’re a very good dragon."
The story is just about the two of them and neither acts in that stupid YA let's-make-him/her-jealous way.
I'm totally hooked, and I can't wait to see more books released in the series.What's not to love about a Dragon shifter?
"I used to eat people, you know."He made me laugh out loud so many times with his attitude, and it's not that he was annoying for being so MACHO because he constantly realized he was doing something wrong and tried to change it to make the heroine feel better.
And dude ---> A DRAGON, I don't know why but for some reason I just find that totally hot.A very peculiar heroine ...I usually never like heroines or remember them much, but I loved this one.
4 Dragon Lovin' Stars!Pia has done something very stupid.
Unfortunately, she has stolen something from Dragos who does not take kindly to anyone stealing from him, no matter what it is.
Dragos is a dragon who has been around for thousands of years.
He is amazed that someone was able to steal from him and actually live.
He has found her after thousands of years.
Unfortunately, the Dark Fae King doesn't want to see Dragos live any longer.
Now Pia and Dragos have to fight to stay alive before they can truly be together.
I debated between 4 and 5 stars, but it ended so well I just had to bump it up to 5-stars. It was a really enjoyable steamy PNR story that never had a dull moment. Loved the H/h, the world building was solid, the humor was wicked fun, the steam hot, and the side characters were all well done too. My only issue were the rapid mood swings between the H/h toward the end. While they were understandable, it was jarring in places. I look forward to reading the next in this series. Highly recommend to PNR fans.
So when someone breaks into his hoard, something that has never happened before and steals from him, his anger as he takes to the sky in his dragon form can literally be felt and heard from everyone in the city.Pia Giovanni is a half-breed – half human, half wyr.
But his dragon side also rules his actions throughout this book - something Pia must come to terms with:Something very light tickled her forearms that covered the back of her head.
Dragos and Pia have been captured and Dragos knows he can’t immediately get them out of harms way.
Re-Read: April 5-6, 2018Wonderful re-read!Still one of my favourite books, and Dragos and Pia are still one of my favourite couples. re-read February 23, 2015Still a favorite.  June 22-27, 2011It was so refreshing to read this story! The world the author has created with her amazing imagination is wonderful, exciting, and could be scary as hell! The characters are complex, and interesting, and the bantering between the H/h is awesome.What can I say, the lead is a scary-ass Dragon.How cool is that!I highly recommend this book to all who love reading Urban Fantasy, PNR... I don't think you'll be disappointed!
Plus some of my friends rated it well so I said what the hell.Now please don’t kill me or anything but I didn’t like it so much.
Ok so we have a dragon who’s older than dirt, a selfish little (or not) bastard who loved to collect shiny things.
I actually loved his reaction towards her but it got me thinking why is he so possessive?
She is a big part of the reason why I didn’t like the book so much.
It’s not like I have a problem with vegetarians but I know a joke or whatever this is so have to comment about it.
Me ha gustado bastante, es un buen inicio para una saga. El único pero que puedo ponerle es ella; en general bien perooooo no me ha convencido.
21/1/2017 Re-read as I don't remember a thing from this series..
Written October 22, 20144 Giggling Stars - Another drooling Dragos Dragon lover girl is born here far away. - A lot of fun and so very lovely told       It was the right time for some romantic "Dragon Shifters". This high raited popular m/f PNR had been waiting for nearly two years. ~ It wasn't a day to late to at last start "reading" (I went for the easy listening option again..). “I am cursed with a terminal case of curiosity,” he said. “I am jealous, selfish, acquisitive, territorial and poss
Written October 22, 20144 Giggling Stars - Another drooling Dragos Dragon lover girl is born here far away.
~ It wasn't a day to late to at last start "reading" (I went for the easy listening option again..).
“I used to eat people, you know.”...in other words:Absolutely Lovely - a "wet" Dragon Dream***********************************************************In NY City nowadays...Half-human and half-Wyr, Pia Giovanni does something really stupid, she is blackmailed and she steal from the hoard of dragon.
~ I want more from this world some day.***********************************************************Happy 'Sexy Dragon & Sassy Pia' dancing...I got just everything I like here.
It’s not that I’m afraid I’ll be spoiled, it’s just that I don’t want to go into a book looking for a positive or a negative that someone else had.
Don’t let your expectations get the best of you.Despite not seeing intensity in Dragos, I did see a lot to like.
I laughed when Pia tried to teach Dragos manners and loved watching Dragos try to accustom himself to caring about her and wanting to please her.I really liked the side characters and was pleased that they were more than just sequel bait.
Harrison takes an interesting turn by incorporating some dragon lore here (for example, his love of shiny pretty things and his need to stash hordes all over the city) but all the hallmarks are still there, and I still just don’t enjoy reading about this man and the relationship dynamics that go along with him.Pia is the willowy, blonde, graceful slip of a thing (who, okay, has some hidden strength…but hates to use it) who ends up getting kidnapped, separated from her friends and family, provided with luxury, and fucked senseless every once in a while (whenever Dragos isn’t off doing his important man-work).
Thea Harrison knows how to build a world so perfect that you just can't help wanting to live there.The plot was the first thing that catched my attention.
But Thea Harrison introduced me to a paranormal world where there are sexy alphas of all alphas heroes.When you look at all the reviews of Dragon Bound, most gave this book a five-star and it was fucking worth it.
The author's way of writing is easy to read and you don't have to wrack your head to figure out what the hell is she talking (or writing) about.There are just some authors who tried to twist and use fancy words to make their story more appealing which is wrong.
If you love to read humor, danger, action, a dominating male dragon and some of the hottest sizzling hot sex well this is a must next read.
Nope, he isn’t a lovie dovie dragon, this dragon is a hot arrogant, dominating, outrageous male dragon that has an OCD problem with the things in his nest.I myself had a problem with the heroine, Pia, she is very strong, but she got on my nerves for a time.
She is the one who dragged Dragos in this dangerous adventure, but she takes her time in trusting him in what simple things he asks from her.
