https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/759611.Brown_Bear_Brown_Bear_What_Do_You_See_
Many people may not like this book or think it is too simple a book, not really a story.
I think this is a great book.
It is also a great book for those children who may not be great readers.
Their confindence level was low and we had a really hard time finding good books that they were able to read independently.
But this was one of the few books they enjoyed reading on their own.
Any book that can make a child feel like they are a successful reader is a great book in my opinion.
Subtexts: perspective, surveillance, paranoia!I had to read this aloud maybe a hundred nights in a row before I noticed what the text was plainly saying: everyone thinks they are being watched!
Each animal is watching a different animal, save for the children, who imagine that ALL the animals watch them, when in fact it is the children who gaze out at every animal.Here are the lessons of the book:-the people you think are watching you aren't-actually, it is YOU who is doing the watching!-animal colors in real life may vary from depictions [though Franz Marc painted some lovely blue horses and I do hope their inclusion here is a nod to him]
Terrible characterization. Blue Horse? What the heck is that!? The plot is monotonous and dull. And the ending...a montage of scenes from the book, and not even a good one! The only thing I can say in its favor is that you can probably get through it in a couple of days.
I have been an avid fan of Eric Carle’s works, especially of his well-known children’s book “The Very Hungry Caterpillar” and one of the books that Eric Carle had worked on that I did not get the chance to read when I was little was “Brown Bear, Brown Bear, What Do You See?” which was also written by Bill Martin Jr. All in all, this was one children’s book that children should definitely check out!Since this story is extremely short, the summary will be brief.Basically, the plot of this book is about the reader seeing various animals comment on what other beings they are looking at that precise moment, while each animal states a variation of this quote: “Brown Bear, Brown Bear,What do you see?I see a red bird looking at me.Red Bird, Red Bird, What do you see?I see a yellow duck looking at me.”Wow!
This is the story of a teacher so dedicated that her students simply called her Teacher. She celebrated her classroom's multi-racial, multi-ethnic diversity with an array of class pets: a brown bear, a red bird, a yellow duck, a blue horse, a green frog, a purple cat, a white dog, a black sheep, and a goldfish. Some criticize her teaching methods, citing the dangers of bears in the classroom, but I stand by her choice to lead with alliteration in spite of any potential maulings.
I wasn't really into this book when I was little, but this is my daughter's favorite book- so I have to give it 5 star props. Whenever we get to the black sheep, she yells out "BAAAAAA!"Many mornings she wakes up and demands, "BOOK!" and if I don't pick this one, she yells, "Noooooooo! BOOOOK!" until I read her Brown Bear...
The illustrations are fantastic, a combination of bright eye-catchy colours with lovely examples of tissue paper collages used to represent the animals in the story.The book begins with the reader asking the Brown Bear, “Brown Bear, Brown Bear, What do you see?” The Bear then tells the audience what he see's.
I think this book possesses many cross-curricular opportunities for children in early years.
My Kindergarteners made me read this to them five times on Friday at work.  Five times!!!!! By the time I was done, I could tell every word to the story without looking at the pages. Some one please save me from pushy five year olds with a penchant for rhyming books.
Bold move to not order the animals according to the ROY G BIV spectrum. Makes it slightly more challenging to memorize. I'm almost there, though.My eleven week old daughter giggles like a maniac whenever I start reading this book to her, and she is particularly fascinated by the final page. Hence -- because of the maniacal gurgling and concurrent kicking -- five stars, although personally I found the narrative arc a bit flat.
My daughter loves this for the animals and repetition. It does well to teach color, perception, and basic animal recognition. But it honestly gives me a headache with its dull repetition and lack of rhyme use when it so easily would have improved readability.
Definitely one our favorite books. Great illustrations and fun to say out loud. All my kids pretty much have the book memorized so much so that we recite it in the car. Easy reading, but a good book for an older sibling to read to their younger siblings and a great way to learn colors. A book the whole family loves.
My children loved this book when they where small. A firm favourite on my bookshelf.
Great classic to help kinders begin to read by "retelling" the story.
Mom read me this today and I am not ashamed to say I threw a big fit. Not two days ago I heard my doctor specifically tell her that I can't see colors yet, and here she is taunting me with red, yellow, purple, green, etc. etc. GEEEEEEEEEZ! -M
I read this with my children. Classic kids book! They have memorized it they love so much!
A thought provoking meditation on race relations. The question we all need to ask ourselves is, what do you see?
What Do You See? I see another favorite of my grandson's, with rhyming repetition and bright, colorful drawings of animals and people.
This book would be great for children either learning colours and animals in English or learning them in another language I.e in French or German.There is lots of repetition throughout the book. So the only words that change on each page are colours and the animals.
A fun book that made me smile ear to ear.
The narration was okay; the story is good.
The repetitive and rhythmic language used is beneficial to children mainly with EAL as it uses the same words over and over, meaning that these children have a chance to interact and join in as the story becomes more familiar.
This story's dual language aspect makes it available in a variety of languages which will help EAL children understand this book more clearly.This book can also be beneficial for children with SEN.
Overall I feel this book is aimed at Key Stage 1 children, teaching them basic colours and language through rhythmic repetition.
Problem solved!The first time we read this book my daughter had a reaction to every single turn of the page.
Each page has a slide window that when you peek underneath shows a miniature version of the animal that will appear on the next page.
The slide window itself was beyond her ken but the large, colorful drawings of animals appealed to her very much and I have a feeling this book will grow with her over the years.This book would make an excellent gift.
Truly a classic... read it to two very hyperactive boys today and it calm them immediately. I had to read it to them 6 times and I love the it as much as they did! A true classic!!!!!!!!!!!
Colors, animals, rhymes, this is so lovely I want to sing!
My niece loved this counting book when she was a toddler and still enjoys it as a quick bedtime story at the age of four. It's a good way to teach basic counting, colours and some animals. The illustrations are very basic and bold. It's repetitive (which is always a hit). It's extremely simple and there's no real "story."
Good for KS1
A concept book that teaches both animals and colors. Very clever use of repetition, both text patterns and actual text refrains, to reinforce the concepts featured in this picture book. Incredible tissue-paper collage illustrations ensure this one is a home run and an enduring children's classic.
This book has repetition, colors and vivid illustrations all things that are the building blocks for early readers. Find Brown Bear, Brown Bear, What Do You See? at the Westminster Public Library!
Lû en français.
Good read, but you have to suspend your disbelief a little bit... I mean, a blue horse? Come on.
