https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/21413662-what-if
This is one of the most entertaining books I have ever read. And I have read over 10 books.
So much of a fan that when I heard about this book, I went so far as to abuse my power as an author to get an Advance Reading Copy of the book, so that I could enjoy its deliciousness sooner.
Despite my best intentions, I read half the book that night.
It's clever, but if you know anything about Randall Munroe, that won't come as a surprise to you.
The surprise was how *easy* it was to read.
I expected to read the book in dribs and drabs over a couple weeks.
Q: What would happen if every geek in the world received a copy of What If tomorrow morning?A: Actually, less than you'd think.First, a little background about this book.
He'll finish just as the last guest leaves.There is a common myth, most likely spread by geeks, that what they do is somehow pretty important to Western civilization.
The non-geek will cover for them until the geek has got over their fifteen hour internet speed-chess session and is ready to do whatever it is they're actually being paid to do.So delivering a copy of What If to every geek in the world will only really have two important effects.
AMAZING BOOK! I love love love it and frankly, there's no better book to read on the toilet. Off the toilet too, but I learned so much and the writing is so engaging and entertaining and just MARVELOUS. Of course in the style of xkcd, this and Atlas Obscura would be my go-to book gifts this year.
My evil plan of reading this book in small doses aloud to my students during math class has worked. Several of them have bought their own copies, and they are, I believe, planning to use their math skills for good, and not for world domination.
Have that many Lego bricks been manufactured?What would happen to the Earth if the Sun suddenly switched off?If you are interested to know any of the answers to those questions, this book is for you!
Oh, and be sure to read his footnotes, which have even more jokes.I think this book would be a great gift for kids who love to ask crazy questions about how the world works.
Answer has to be “as fast as I will be running if I ever meet you Jon”.And a person called Kenneth askedWhat if every day, every human had a 1 per cent chance of being turned into a turkey, and every turkey had a one percent chance of being turned into a human?
He picks Rhode Island (it’s just big enough for everyone on Earth, surprisingly) as a designated place where this event might be staged, and imagines the result.
And really, there is one question which I really want to ask Randall, it’s actually been something I have been wondering about for a long time – you know those vending machines stuffed full of really unhealthy chocs and crisps and cokes?
I highly recommend taking the audiobook route for this one unless you absolutely love very technical science. Wil Wheaton's narration was excellent and he delivered Munroe's humor perfectly! I loved this so much I bought a hard copy for my coffee table.
But it does illustrate an important fact.Scientific enquiry starts with seemingly absurd questions.-----------------------------------Randall Munroe is a physics graduate who briefly worked for NASA: but his claim to fame is as the creator of the web comic xkcd, where stick figures make fun of serious philosophical questions and scientific theories.
And reading this book, it's not hard to see why.Munroe reminds us that above all, science is fun.-----------------------------------xkcd has got an inbox where people can submit questions of any kind - and they do.
You have to admit, it's pretty crazy that we've given this guy a holiday, right?" He has a point.So, I took the book home - slightly shamed that I hadn't realized it was more for coffee tables than actual reading.But then I picked it up and read a couple.
I am NOT a math guy.In case there aren't any flame wars yet, let me start one: On page 114 in answer to the question, "If everyone on the planet stayed away from each other for a couple of weeks, wouldn't the common cold be wiped out?" he says, "The common cold is caused by a variety of viruses, but rhinoviruses are the most common culprit.
Change.Org Petition: Despicable MunroeThe International Astronomical Union recently named an asteroid after Randall Munroe; asteroid 4942 Munroe is big enough to cause a mass extinction if it ever hits Earth.Not that he needs an asteroid to do that.
He has his minions devising millions of ways to do it, on a subversive site they call xkcd.com.
This book is a set of leaked manuals.
It should be clear to all how dangerous this guy (and his site) really is.
If you still have doubts, let me remind you of numerous disaster movies — there is always only ONE GUY who saw it coming!
كتاب رائع يعرض عدد كبير من المعلومات العلمية بصورة مشوقة وجديدة من خلال أسئلة افتراضية ربما راودت اذهاننا من قبللو أرتفعنا في الفضاء بمقدار قدم واحد كل ثانية.. كيف سنموت من البرودة أم الاختناق؟"رغم ذلك هناك عدد كبير من الأسئلة التي تبدو سخيفة أو بلا معنىلو أجتمع كل البشر في مكن واحد قريبين من بعضهم بقدر الأمكان.. ما الذي سيحدث لو قفزوا دفعة واحدة؟
Trying to thoroughly answer a stupid question can take you to some pretty interesting places. Randall Munroe, ex-NASA employee and author of the wildly popular webcomic XKCD, decides to look at several, undoubtedly, absurd questions and find scientific answers to them.Nothing is too absurd for him - whether it be the logistics of finding your soulmate to what happens if our moon suddenly disappears - Munroe answers it all. But I’ve never seen the Icarus story as a lesson about the limitations
Trying to thoroughly answer a stupid question can take you to some pretty interesting places.
Randall Munroe, ex-NASA employee and author of the wildly popular webcomic XKCD, decides to look at several, undoubtedly, absurd questions and find scientific answers to them.Nothing is too absurd for him - whether it be the logistics of finding your soulmate to what happens if our moon suddenly disappears - Munroe answers it all.
I absolutely loved the tone of voice throughout the book.
His hilarious deadpan just absolutely cinched this book for me.
Loved this one - it was so much fun!Audiobook CommentsI absolutely LOVED how you can just feel the enthusiasm coming from the reader.
(No time to count them.) Interspersed with these are a dozen single page pieces called “Weird (and Worrying) Questions from the What If?
Each page has a couple questions, with no response by the author, except for sometimes a cartoon drawing, a stick figure saying something.
Munroe says this is probably similar to what might happen in the case of the absurd question being answered.Other examples of DNA damage he talks about are from radiation and chemotherapy.I was appropriately horrified by this piece, but I learned about a mushroom I’d never known of, that apparently can be found in the area I live in.
xkcd.comFor all those people still here, and who obviously know Randall's work, let's just bask in the mixture of intelligence, cleverness, hilarity and properly labelled axes.
Definitely shower thoughts.Questions not answered include "What is the probability that if I am stabbed by a knife in my torso that it won't hit anything vital and I'll live?" and "How fast would a human have to run in order to be cut in half at the belly button by a cheese cutting wire?" It's fun to laugh along with these, but it does make you realise that there is a fine line between scientist and horribly obscene psycho killers.
The book was fun to read until at some points it wasn’t.
The author is apparently a genius, I don’t know how can he think in that way.
And the dedication and time that he puts to answer these questions is amazing.I imagine the author as that student who used to sit at the front seat and answer all the questions enthusiastically.My problem was that not all the questions were simple and even if they were or if he answered them simply, he would go and make it more and more complicated until I lost interest.
Still an entertaining book, specially for the science nerds!
I don't think I've ever laughed this much and hard from a science or non-fiction book-wait, I take that back, I haven't laughed this much from a book period.
I mean periodic tables and radioactive decay doesn't normally warrant laughter-well at least when I read about it.
The questions being presented is stuff that would have never crossed my mind, but the instant I read them I was like -oh wow-what the funk if that really happened?
I loved the illustrations throughout- and how the scientific info was made into such a fun, yet informative read.
For sure checking out more stuff by Munroe.
I am now more afraid of a global windstorm brought on by the cessation of the Earth's rotation potentially killing all life on Earth than I am of being murdered or getting a fatal disease.All that is to say, I am most likely not this book's target audience, being a completely ridiculous ball of anxiety over things that nearly 100% will never, ever, ever happen.
I'm not trying to suggest that Gary Larson and Randall Munroe occupy the same ground.
This book is filled with drawings and explanations by Randall Munroe on topics as diverse as:"Q.
Science is always jumping into absurd places asking weird questions.
I'm thinking of Leyner's books: Why Do Men Have Nipples?: Hundreds of Questions You'd Only Ask a Doctor After Your Third Martini and Why Do Men Fall Asleep After Sex?
Both are using humor and science and the strategy of funky questions.
Monroe is a scientist that is using the scientific method and humor to explain absurd, and sometimes practically nonsense questions.
I love xkcd & some of these questions were really interesting - funny on the face with some really interesting science & math backing up the answer.
The questions & answers often require contemplation.
Sure, I learned them in 9th grade physics, but the refresher was a whole lot more interesting than Ms. Hummel's class ever was.
Your class was interesting & figuring out horsepower by running up a flight of stairs was great, but...
Yes, I know your class was long before even the first Star Wars movie, but...
But in this book, Munroe answers a stack of absurd hypothetical questions.
Some of the questions are really crazy, like "What would happen if everyone on Earth stood as close to each other as they could and jumped, everyone landing on the ground at the same instant?" Munroe explains that the "thud" as everyone came down at the same time wouldn't amount to much.
He ups the ante, increasing the power of the laser pointers, to the point where he becomes really dangerous!What is truly wonderful about this book, is that the answers are explained with scientific reasoning.
This is a lot of fun from a guy who likes when things catch fire. A lot of the questions reminded me of the ones Neil Gaiman fielded after Geoff Coffey's tweet that he would donate $1 to @EFF for every person who asks @neilhimself how they can watch American Gods in their country.
What If?, or Serendipity; or the Literary/Pop Culture Quotes Quiz Late at night, about a week ago, I went through the Top Quotes pages of Goodreads. A hundred pages, each with thirty quotes: that's 3000 quotes. I have problems. I was searching for quotes that included (on the most part, primarily consisted of) a line in the form of 'If A, B' (let's call it an If quote, or IQ) - I'd compiled them because I had a certain idea for a review where I would use them.What's the catch? The idea was for
If there’s a book that you want to read, but it hasn’t been written yet (Toni Morrison) (view spoiler)[then you must write it.
If you don't have time to read (Stephen King) (view spoiler)[you don’t have the time (or the tools) to write.
If you don't read the newspaper (Mark Twain) (view spoiler)[you're uninformed.
If you read the newspaper (Mark Twain) (view spoiler)[you're misinformed.
S. Lewis) (view spoiler)[we should never have found out that it has no meaning.
If I had a world of my own (Lewis Carroll) (view spoiler)[everything would be nonsense.
Part of that is untrue - I didn't dump my boyfriend for not knowing what XKCD is.
Anyway, this book was great.
I've been a fan of XKCD for a long time now, and even if this book was crap, I'd have happily purchased a copy just to support Randall Munroe for my previous webcomic enjoyment.
But this book was not crap.
(Really, I couldn't imagine reading this in ebook format - the footnotes made me giggle so frequently that if they were a pain in the tushie to read on an ebook, so much greatness would be missed.)Finally, for best travelogue.
Update:  This is my first experience in reading a book in paper-copy and having it actually change how much I enjoyed it. A friend who knows me all too well gave me the hardcover version of What If?: Serious Scientific Answers to Absurd Hypothetical Questions as a birthday present- and reading it as an ebook just didn't do it justice. The laugh-factor jumped by several orders of magnitude! So here's to Randal Munroe, XKCD and keeping physical books alive!The brain behind   xkcd  ,   Randall Mun
A friend who knows me all too well gave me the hardcover version of What If?: Serious Scientific Answers to Absurd Hypothetical Questions as a birthday present- and reading it as an ebook just didn't do it justice.
So here's to Randal Munroe, XKCD and keeping physical books alive!The brain behind 
The weird thing about hypothetical questions, though, is that depending on your audience, sometimes the answer you'll get is ‘Who cares?’ And, for whatever reason, my interest arbitrarily waxed and waned.
question (something to the effect of: would the friction of air eventually stop an arrow in a zero-gravity environment?) could be easily answered by my favorite world's greatest secret agent.
Please, PLEASE do not try this at home.That warning has probably never been more applicable, as attempting to reenact many of the scenarios from this book will result in our atmosphere turning into plasma and leading to the instant ignition of the Earth's surface.
Please do not try making an actual Periodic Wall of Elements.
. .Just to be the man who walked a thousand miles to fall down at your door..
I grinned all the way through this, except when I guffawed.If you know the webcomic xkcd, this needs no introduction; if you don't, 1) go find it at once (here, let me help you: http://www.xkcd.com/ ) and 2) (handwaves wildly) I don't know how to explain it. It's the only webcomic I have bookmarked. No, I don't get all the math and computer jokes either, but they do sometimes give me a glimpse into a wider world.Highly recommended.Ta, L.
This book was hilarious. I warn you not to read it when in the company of others because you will laugh out loud and subsequent explaining will be met with blank looks.Have you ever wondered what would happen if you wore Technetium as a hat or if the worlds population jumped at the same time in one location would the earth move?If so this book is for you. Randall Munroe is one smart dude that answers all your weird and wacky questions with real math and drawings of stick figures.It is as awesome as it sounds.
These hypothetical situations are ingenious and unique! My favorite has to be "what would happen if I built the periodic table out of bricks of the actual elements?" DONT DO IT!!!This author was a NASA physicist who quit to draw an internet comic strip, and he's brilliant. I found myself repeatedly asking, "how does he know this?" The questions were a riot! I laughed so much through this book. He made science and math fun.2017 Lenten nonfiction Buddy Reading Challenge book #40This is my last Challenge book. 40 books!
If you're into stuff like this, you can read the full review.Rampant Geekery: "What If - Serious Scientific Answers to Absurd Hypothetical Questions" by Randall MunroeI wasn’t familiar with the XKCD's web comic website.
Now, I know better… I'm already a fan.This book will be better appreciated if one has some kind of scientific background and a somewhat superficial understanding of Physics (at least a basic knowledge).
A cursory reading of the book is not enough.
I think science geeks and general readers with an interest in scientific concepts won’t have any problem tackling it.You can read the rest of this review elsewhere.
