https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/871143.Encyclopedia_Brown_Gets_His_Man
Quick to read as fun brain teasers. This one, however, included some humour with it.
It is clever and Encyclopedia is so likable and funny.As always, Encyclopedia Brown Gets His Man has 10 short stories with cases to solve.
A couple were really easy if you had been paying attention, but some were pretty tough!I think my favorite story was The Case of the Murder Man. It was different than the rest since it was about a play written by Encyclopedia instead of a case he had to solve.The Case of Bugs Meany, Detective was a fun one, too.
And in this story they even start their own detective agency!Encyclopedia Brown Gets His Man is just as good and fun as the previous three books.
My last Encyclopedia Brown, and that's OK with me since the appeal is wearing off. The cases aren't quite as fun anymore, and they're becoming more and more of a stretch. It's almost turning into a machine where it's so easy to pump out new cases, which works great for the author and I'm sure many kids (younger me included).Shelving this to the "happy childhood memories I don't wait to ruin, so I'll leave them alone."(PS I only solved like three of the cases in this one. I swear I'm not bitter since this one absolutely kicked my ass. Promise.)
I thought this was better than #3, but not quite as good as #1 or #2. There was significantly less racism/bigotry in this one (yes, I know, they were written in the 1960's, things were different) and there were more puzzle-type mysteries rather than mysteries that required knowledge of obscure facts.My favorite in this one was the mystery that Encyclopedia came up with to help his friend write the play. The change of approach was fun and refreshing.
this is a very good book because it's interesting to me how this kid about 10 years old solves all these cases with the smallest mistakes. his dad is a policeman and the kid Leroy also called encyclopedia solves half of his cases. as i have been reading these books I've actually began to figure out some cases every once in a while.
This was one of the later mysteries where the series took a dark turn and Encyclopedia has to figure out who killed Sally Kimball's baby. [Spoiler alert: In a shocking twist at the end, it turns out that Sally had an abortion.]
There was a bit of longing when I read this book. Encyclopedia's father was so patient and caring with him. He helped Encyclopedia learn without hitting him or calling him stupid. I wish I had a father like Encycopedia's.
it was awesome it was going to be the book i read for school but it made me read the hole set
Fun little mini-mysteries.
These are fantastic books. I loved them as a kid. You can solve the mysteries along with Encyclopedia Brown, all the clues are in the story. They make you think. Very recommended for young readers
Really fun book to read. Tough cases but solvable
These books are still good to make the "little grey cells" function, but they become a trifle repetitive... Still a good challenge...Maria Carmo,Lisbon 3 January 2018.
Cute (occasionally clever) mysteries for me to share with my kids.
I loved it, it's about detectives.
It is entirely unlikely that a bank would be holding one million Mex$1 notes, let alone five years after they ceased to be printed.
Given that a Mex$1 note weighs approximately as much as a $1 bill, that would mean that two men stole over 2000 lbs of currency.
Given the exchange rate Sobol gives, that is a disagreement over $80 (in 1967 dollars).
Is an $80 slight against a $40,000 expectation (this means pocketing $39,920) a real deal-breaker?
But the real problem is that Sobol gives not one single line for how the money was accounted.
We waited more almost two years after reading books 1 and 2 in this series and almost two more years after reading book 3.
We read all of the stories over the course of a couple of evenings and our girls were fascinated by the puzzles.
They aren't necessarily able to figure them out before reading the answers, but they are able to understand the solutions and they like the short mysteries.
We enjoyed reading this book together and we will certainly read more of the books in this series soon!
Idaville, Florida must really be an interesting town with all the crime that goes on there!
Once again, Encyclopedia Brown is faced with all kinds of interesting cases to figure out.
Somehow, the local police department, run by Encyclopedia's father, can't solve the crimes without the help of a ten year old boy.
Encyclopedia also helps on cases presented to him by members of the community.
He even lends his expertise on a case which took place in Mexico involving a friend's famous uncle.
I think I went through all of the books in the library.I just noticed something in the front of the book which I haven't seen before.HEY, KIDS!Do you have a wacky story to tell about an animal, a fact, a crime, a sport?
But it must be true.You can write about it, or enclose a clipping from your local newspaper, or send a note from your parents or teacher verifying the story.
If it is included in an Encyclopedia Brown book, your name will appear in the book.
Send your wacky true story (along with your name and address) to: Encyclopedia Brown, c/o Bantam Books, 666 Fifth Avenue, New York 10103
Let me tell you that the mystery with the coffee smoker was shocking to me as a mother with children because it is just taken as normal that the youngsters in this story will smoke tobacco or coffee?!
I haven't been as shocked since reading the From Russia With Love and Mr. Bond drinks strong liquors before driving out anywhere...
yup, drinking and then driving and it is totally normal in the story.We have changed as a society this past twenty years!This is still a classically good read for starting chapter readers and we read it out loud which was even more fun.3 stars
Leroy Brown, aka Encyclopedia Brown, is Idaville neighborhood’s ten-year-old star detective. With an uncanny knack for trivia, he solves mysteries for the neighborhood kids through his own detective agency. But his dad also happens to be the chief of the Idaville police department, and every night around the dinner table, Encyclopedia helps him solve his most baffling crimes. And with ten confounding mysteries in each book, not only does Encyclopedia have a chance to solve them, but the reader is given all the clues as well. Interactive and chock full of interesting bits of information—it’s classic Encyclopedia Brown!
For being written at a second grade reading level, I think this book was really well written.
IT is a very early-reader, Chapter Book.
And, sure Encyclopedia Brown books seems a litle "formulaic" but I believe young readers need a little bit of that familiarity when they are starting out.
I also like these books because they are a little more interactive, and you aren't just sitting there passively reading.
You are thinking about the mystery, and allowed enough think time, to try to think of the solution yourself before the solution being presented (You have to turn to a certain page in the back to find out).
Encyclopedia Brown Gets His Man by Donald J. Sobol - Mystery, 3rd grade and up – Just finished this 4th book in the series. Still love them. Still enjoy solving the mysteries with my kiddo. I was a bit thrown when I heard that there are talks about turning Encyclopedia Brown into a movie. I never watched the HBO adaptation of the series, not so sure I’m excited about a movie… but I bet my kiddo will be! http://www.csmonitor.com/Books/chapte...
I've read this book before; I'm not sure how many times. I hadn't planned on rereading it all now, but it was hard to stop.I was surprised by how many times I remembered the critical clue before I reread it. The only story where I didn't remember the critical clue at all was the ninth, "The Case of the Murder Man"; for that one, I actually reread it, trying to figure it out. I'm not sure whether I did figure it out, or whether reading it twice reminded me.(Finished 2008-07-31 17:22 EDT.)
I loved this series when I was a kid and it was so much fun revisiting it. Each book has a series of mysteries that Encyclopedia Brown solves. They are only a few pages long, and the solution is not told, but is available at the end of the book. I was worried these stories would be really dated, but they seem to have stood the test of time (at least, this particular one does). I think a good age range for these books would be upper elementary school.
Although I had heard of Encyclopedia Brown growing up, I had never read one of the books. After reading this book, I was disappointed to have not read it sooner. It was such a fun read and kept me wanting to know more. I liked how to stopped once the story was over so the reader could see if they could figure out the villain. This is great to introduce when students are learning about details. They must watch out for small details to figure out the case.
Reread Warcry by Elizabeth VaughanThis is a placeholder, or rather a place counter, since stupid GoodReads does not allow one to count re-read books towards one's total book read count for the year. Even though I've read the book before, I READ THE DAMN BOOK THIS YEAR, AND IT COUNTS TOWARD MY F#%KING COUNTS!Stupid Goodreads *grumble, grumble*
I like the book so much that I dont' know what to say. The series is about a boy detective and at the end of every book, there is an answer to the mystery. There are many mysteries in one book. Encyclopedia Brown's real name is Leroy and he's 11 years old and his dad Chief Brown is the best police officer in Idaville where he lives.
What did you think of this book? Why did you give it a rating of 2?The book was very boring except for the three stories i've listed the case of the broken vase, murder man, the case of blue berry pie.
The third book in the "re-reads with my Dad". This one provided a lot of entertainment, as once again the "solutions" really didn't solve anything. I'm really having a lot of fun reading these and laughing over them. 3 stars for nostalgia's sake.
Encyclopeida loves to help right wrongs. He helps adults as well as the neigborhood kids solve mysteries. These short cases are short enough to keep a second grader's interest, but include enough clues that children can process the information and find the bad guy just like Encyclopedia.
