https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/198719.The_Girl_with_the_Silver_Eyes
the sci-fi elements are basically just a metaphor for “being different;” katie is a lonely girl who wants friends and when she finds other kids like her, the implication is that now everything is going to be roses for her, but since the book cuts off before any of those roses blossom, we don’t know if having magical abilities is enough of a foundation upon which to build lasting friendships, and we don’t get to see them do anything cool.
Reread for our classics discussion on Friday 8/28! :)******One of the first scifi/paranormal books I ever remember reading, and one that still holds up as an adult. I loved the whole idea of a girl with telekinetic powers who doesn't fit anywhere--until she finds out that there is a small group of other kids just like her. Well-written with memorable characters (and a lovely old cat), it's one of the first books that started my love for non-realistic fiction. This one's a bit obscure, but it's still in print and available as an ebook, and well worth seeking out.
This was one of my favorite books for a long time. I reread it at regular intervals, and never ceased to thrill every time Katie learned to use her powers in a different and more spectacular way. I identified strongly with Katie, I think, because I was also an extremely precocious child whom grownups found intimidating and inscrutable, and I valued anyone who treated me like a real person instead of a freak or a "genius."
One of the first scifi/paranormal books I ever remember reading, and one that still holds up as an adult. I loved the whole idea of a girl with telekinetic powers who doesn't fit anywhere--until she finds out that there is a small group of other kids just like her. Well-written with memorable characters, it's the book that started my love for supernatural books. It's a shame the author's other books never really lived up to this one.
I read this so many times as a child, and wished I was a character in the book.
I admit, I haven't read this book in at least 20 years, probably 4th or 5th grade, but I loved it back then!I think most kids (adults too) relate to stories where the protagonist is 'different' but discovers that not only are the differences a good thing (super powers), but that they may someday find others who are like them.I'm tempted to pick up this book again, but I have such good memories that I'm not sure I want to chance rereading it with grown-up eyes.
The little one said it perfectly, as we neared the end of the book: "But, like, it hasn't even started yet!"While well-written with likable characters, it felt like the first 7/8 of the book was just setting up the story, and then the climax kind of just plopped out like cold Beefaroni into a dirty bowl. Perhaps we've been spoiled with all the decent paranormal and superhero fiction available nowadays, but we sort of expected more from a tale about a young girl with telekinesis.
An amazing classic, sci-fi read. I should have read this a long time ago and if you haven't read this yet, I really think you should amend that.
Book worm nerds with telekinesis!
A real icy blast from the past.But by way of direct review: loved it when I was a kid, loved it again.
I definitely read it with more of a sinister bent than a kids' book warrants, but I like it better that way.A girl with silver eyes and mysterious powers (telekinesis and a little telepathy) discovers there may be other children just like her.
Since she has always had trouble fitting in, she seeks them out--but discovers there are people seeking her out as well.
I'm pretty sure Willo Roberts had other ideas about how it should have gone--something a little more Robert Cormier, perhaps?
I loved this book when I was a kid, so I was happy to find it stood up to adult reading.
It's refreshing to find a tale of psychic children who use their powers not to save the world but to make their beds, harass their babysitters, and generally act like kids.
The conflict arises from misunderstandings between kids and adults, not some evil opposing force.
In short, there's no "with great power comes great responsibility" here, just good old-fashioned fun.
And it is old-fashioned in a certain sense--the book is very definitively set in the late 1970s, with fashion and child-rearing attitudes reflecting the time period.
Sort of "Carrie", only more fun than horrifying. A young girl with silver eyes and some mysterious powers decides to use her powers to fight back when her uniqueness becomes a matter of scientific interest. Along the way she discovers that she isn't the only one thus "gifted". . . .
This was a childhood favorite.
The main character has my name, but I'm pretty sure I pulled it off the shelf way back because of the title.Anyway, it holds up pretty well.
Kids with super powers!
(I wonder if this is the first of that genre I read?) I liked the power to see in the dark the best because it meant you could READ IN THE DARK.
And now with fancy Kindles, I CAN read in the dark.
Also I suppose my parents aren't going to drive across town in the middle of the night and yell at me for reading with a flashlight under the covers.
So from that point of view, had I read this book back when I was ten, I would probably have been floored and thought this the most awesome book ever.What bothered me is something I see when I compare it to work of today, where paranormal takes such outlandish forms, and telekinesis seems a little bit...tame.
For a book that I wanted to love very much, I came away a bit saddened that I hadn't read this at the age of ten so I can have that cherished memory as well.
But now I'm left wanting the rest of the story....
My sister had a copy of this book when we were kids and she read it over and over again.
Maybe Sis never let go of it long enough for me to read it.I knew that the book involved a little girl who could move things with her mind.
I never had any success, but I halfway believed I couldn't do it because I didn't believe I could do it.When I decided to read nothing but children's and YA fiction in January, I knew I had to read this one.Now I understand why my sis read it over and over again.
This book is good stuff!
I was pleased to find that it holds up pretty well on re-reading, although it's shorter and less in-depth than I remembered -- I apparently inadvertantly mixed in some plot elements from Stephen King's Firestarter in my recollection.Anyway, like I said, it holds up well.
The book appears to be out of print, which is unfortunate; it didn't strike me as particularly dated, and I think that it could easily sit comfortably on the shelf next to some of the other popular science fiction middle readers at my library.
I'm starting to notice a pattern here; a lot of the books I really liked as a kid had to do with extra smart kids who wore glasses and were bookish and somewhat socially awkward. Huh. I liked that this book in particular draws a very specific parallel between disability and people's fear of difference. Again, no wonder I liked it.
Pretty good story. Solidly written. Built a decent amount of suspense. Need to find if there's a sequel. A decent kid version of the X-men (with magic powers not quite as exciting).Loneliness, being different, adults not respecting kids
I loved this book when I was around the age of the protagonist, Katie--around 10 or so. Re-reading it this afternoon, I see how it's a great book for kids, although as an adult I see some weak places in the plot. Still, it's a fun book.
Another one that I wish I would have read when I was young but I still enjoyed it. Glad that these four children who are not like everyone else found each other.
I had forgotten about this book! It was a marvelous book for a kid who was used to being seen by her peers as "too smart."
Throwback! I don't even remember when I read this, but I read it as a wee Stefanie and it made an impact. Might have been one of the first I read in the fantasy genre and it's still memorable decades later. I was in love with the idea of silver eyes, and a quirky, intelligent girl that doesn't smile much. Even young Stefanie was annoyed at how much people tell little girls (and it turns out, full grown women) to smile.
weird gender stuff (and a race-as-allegory moment), use of the r-slur, 'intelligence' is special and makes you better than other people, uninspired plot. at least it was an easy read that i didn't waste much time on. i'd have enjoyed it as a child, but i enjoyed reading basically anything (my mom had to ban me from reading cereal boxes at the breakfast table) (a lot of cereal boxes would have entertained and challenged me more than this book did).
I really wish I had read this book in elementary school. I would have been obsessed! Reading it as an adult was fun, but I just keep imagining 10 year old me pretending to have telekinetic powers. 4 stars for adult me but 5 for the 10 year old who still lives inside me. :)
Katie has always made people feel nervous, even her family.
But, people didn't know that Katie had always been able to move these things with her mind.
Now that Katie is in the city, she's faced with her mother trying to get her a sitter and a strange man who is asking a lot of questions about her.
A sort of gentler time, where your next door neighbor (Mrs. M) is looking in on you.
What got me the most is how alone Katie feels, not accepted by her family and having no friends.
She entertained herself and even if she tried to hide how she was "peculiar", she still felt like she shouldn't have to be ashamed of it.I loved to see how resourceful she was once she found a hint of answers for her being different and how determined she was to finding someone else that would maybe be like her and would understand how she felt.Seeing Katie use her powers for both good and mischief was a lot of fun, and I kept rooting for her to get rid of the babysitters and instead hang out with her neighbour, who would lend her books and was kind and understanding for a change.
I read this book when I was younger, and I remember liking it very much, but I couldn't remember why.Katie Welker is an unusual girl.
Young Katie is never happier than when she's curled up reading an excellent book.
While kids on the spectrum don't move things with their mind, they do tend to be shunned by their peers and have a sense of not fitting in, and there's been a debate, as at the end of this book, about whether they're better off sheltered from the general population or integrated into society.
What I liked about The Girl with the Silver Eyes is that it was focused more on normal everyday type circumstances and people finding connection in their differences rather than focusing primarily on the fantastic.
Katie is similarly clever and deals with misunderstanding as Matilda does, but she overcomes her obstacles by finding friends who will accept her for who she is, and deals with events which feel more grounded in reality, her strange abilities seeming more believable because of the normalcy around her.
I did like Matilda's ending better than Katie's though.
I'm gonna guess this was one of the first books I read that featured a main character who lived in the modern, ordinary world but had extraordinary abilities.
That's what I liked about it, and it was probably my first exposure to a fictional character with telekinetic powers.
The book itself is kinda one-dimensional.
I wonder today if the novel series I wrote in college--whose main character is a girl born to ordinary parents who inexplicably turned out to have telekinetic powers--in some way owes its existence to my buried suspicion that I could do better than this.
Katie, the main character, is at once easy to identify with and very alien, which makes for a very compelling combination.
However, she is very strange, and this sets her apart from the reader, making this something other than a simple wish fulfillment by proxy tale.The story of Katie trying to understand her origins is both poignant and suspenseful, a good metaphor for adolescence, and excellent reading.
A series would not have been too much of a stretch, as the book ends in a place that would have made for a wonderful beginning.
