https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/233667.Firestarter
Well, more people should know about it because it's a corking good read.A 1960s experiment gave Andy McGee and his wife psychic powers.
It also altered their DNA enough to produce Charlie, their immensely powerful psychic daughter, whose abilities include pyrokinesis, hence the title.For a good portion of the book, the suspense comes from Andy trying to stay one step ahead of The Shop.
The Shop, and John Rainbird, make fantastic villains because they aren't nearly as far outside the realm of possibility as evil cars and spider-clowns.Like a lot of Stephen King books, the relationships between the characters keep the story going.
Otherwise, the next time she got angry and threw a tantrum it might not just be a stuffed animal that went up in flames.If you've ever been in extreme circumstances like that with your child then I think it will gut-punch you to read that.The creation of The Shop was an especially nice touch by King.It's (I believe) everyone's secret fear that there's some unknown government agency out there that doesn't have to conform to The Rules.The scientists and field agents were also chilling in that they were just doing their job without much thought to the moral ramifications.And Rainbird?Dear God, that guy was a whole new level of creepy!Partially, because he really did love Charlie in his own sick way.He sees Charlie for who she is and what she can become, and he's proud of her.
Charlie demonstrates even more power than her parents and they must keep her abilities secret, as the government wants Charlie back.Firestarter was one of the few "classic" Kings I had left to read (I had never watched the movie either), and yet I wasn't particularly excited about it, it seemed like a Carrie-knockoff almost!
I loved how the mental powers of telekinesis and pyrokinesis were used in the story - when you set these against the backdrop of a nasty government trying to protect its secret, Firestarter really packs a punch!I can't help but wonder if this book would have worked better if it was structured in chronological order, as opposed to jumping back and forth between the past and present day.
There is no scary or gory KING here, but there are monsters....monsters of the humanoid type who have evil intentions and mask their motives with 'for the good of the many'.
(As is the norm, KING added to my shelf here with a horror short I can't wait to read entitled "It's a Good Life" by Jerome Bixby, mentions POE'S William Wilson again, makes reference to his son Joe Hill's "In the Tall Grass" a few times, and The Shop from "The Stand" plays a prevalent part here.)
I can find absolutely nothing bad to say about this book.
Firestarter is up there with 'Salem's Lot, The Shining, and It. This one isn't as creep-up-on-you scary as the aforementioned novels, but Firestarter is terrifying.
To image a world wherein Charlie McGee exists is a scary thought indeed.
This is one of the few King books that has absolutely zero lulls in the narrative.
When the pace does slow, King shows off his superhuman character development skills.
He doesn't simply make his character dev engaging, he makes it entertaining as well.
While Firestarter doesn’t quite crack my top five King books, it does come pretty damn close! While I do find the idea of pyrokinesis and telekinesis fascinating and it is no doubt a big part of what makes this book so good, that’s not what makes this book great to me. For me, what really seals the deal, is the beautiful relationship between Charlie and her father. There’s just so much love and trust there, it’s incredibly touching and what makes me love this book so much!
The character development is solid in this Stephen King story, especially considering the relationship of Charlie and Andy McGee. Maybe I liked this element of the book because they are the victims, and I always root for the underdog.
In it, King thanks his own daughter, who must have been about 10 at the time, for inspiration into the character of Charlie.
That’s when I understood why the relationship in the book seemed so real to me.It’s a government agency that plays the bad guy, or a hidden branch of the military of sorts.
If you're into stuff like this, you can read the full review.Page-Turning Foofaraw: "Firestarter" by Stephen King(Original Review, 1980-09-21)The popularity of "occult" novels haunts the science fiction community. We of all people are expected to pay serious attention to stories based on semiliterate misreadings of religious apocrypha. Not based, mind you, on either testament of the Bible, but on superstitions which Catholic, Protestant and Jewish theologians can tell you are mostly transformations of ancient pagan beliefs that have not yet been shaken off the skirts of genuine religion.
http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=en1uwI...Damn hippy musicians!This was a buddy read with my bestest pal, Firestar.Stephen King sure as hell likes his characters with a heaping helping of psy-abilities.
At the time of this writing, Carrie, ‘Salem’s Lot, The Shining, The Stand and The Dead Zone had been published (needless to say, this is one hell of a run) and three out of five employed characters with some sort of psychic ability.
The heart of the story is the lengths that Andy goes to protect his daughter from falling into the hands of an evil government entity called “The Shop”.
So there most definitely will be spoilers.Firestarter was originally released in 1980 and was the Kings 6th release not including The Star Invaders.This story is a page turning masterpiece that flows effortlessly with literally no break in the pace whatsoever, from the initial chase and capture, to John Rainbird ruthlessly planning and playing with a young girl’s emotions right up to Andy McGee orchestrating an escape that you can’t help but get fully behind.Parts that I loved, Charlie growing up and her first experiences with her ability from her Fathers perspective.‘And he felt it pass him-the invisible, incredible bolt of death from his daughters mind….
I honestly don't have much to say about this book, for lack of inspiration, and like I said before, I would've dumped this before I even got to the next running scene if not for Fabian who wouldn't let us quit.
Vicky Tomlinson and Andy Mcgee were once participants in a medical experiment in college which left them permanently changed and with special abilities that you and I will never be capable of having(don't you just love Stephen King's rascal mind?).
After finally finishing Firestarter and being relieved and happy about now being able to turn towards other books, Anne and I compared the writing in Firestarter with a passage in IT, and it felt like reading something from entirely different authors – although the books were actually published only six years apart from each other.King can certainly tell a story, and he can certainly write as he proved already quite a few times.
Maybe both Anne and I are simply lacking the necessary emotions for this novel, but 33% into it, Firestarter still does nothing but bore us and stand out of King's other works with its ridiculously bad writing.
Βαθμολογία: 9/10Το Firestarter ήταν ένα από τα λίγα βιβλία του Στίβεν Κινγκ που για κάποιον άγνωστο λόγο παρέμενε μέχρι τώρα αμετάφραστο στην γλώσσα μας.
Το έχει διαβάσει πολύς κόσμος γενικά, αλλά δεν είναι από τα βιβλία του που συζητιούνται και ιδιαίτερα.
Υπάρχουν όμως κάποιοι που θεωρούν αυτό το χάρισμα ιδιαίτερα χρήσιμο, και είναι αποφασισμένοι να κάνουν τα πάντα για να τη βρουν και να αποκτήσουν τον έλεγχο των δυνάμεών της -ή να την εξολοθρεύσουν..."Εντάξει, την βασική ιδέα δεν την λες και πρωτότυπη, ακόμα και για την εποχή που γράφτηκε το βιβλίο (πόσο μάλλον τώρα με όλα τα βιβλία, τα κόμικς και τις ταινίες/σειρές που έχουν βγει στο μεταξύ), όμως η εκτέλεση είναι υποδειγματική.
8,5 στα 10.Πολύ ωραίο βιβλίο. Αν δεν κάνω λάθος πρέπει να είναι κάπου το 7ο ή το 8ο που κυκλοφόρησε ο Κινγκ και είναι από εκείνα που δεν ανήκουν στα ''δρακουλίστικά” του, όπως έλεγε κάποτε ο περιπτεράς της γειτονίας μου. Και, όντως, αυτό είναι καθαρά ανθρωποκεντρικό και εστιάζει σε ένα μικρό κοριτσάκι, την Τσάρλι. Δεν θα αναφέρω καμία λεπτομέρεια, (έχει τόσες κριτικές που είναι πια περιττό). Σημειώνω απλώς ότι η ιστορία είναι πολύ όμορφη και μοναδικό της ψεγάδι είναι πως μοιάζει πια κάπως ξεπερασμένη. Προφανώς όμως δεν φταίει ο Κίνγκ που άργησα να το διαβάσω κοντά 40 χρόνια...
And if it DID happen, who would want to bey that some government agency or another wouldn't react much as The Shop did in this novel?But the novel is well written, and a great case in character study.
Charlie has a terrifying power, but is such a sweet and charming girl.
The reader can't help but love her and want to set fire ourselves to all the mean Shop agents that just won't let her be.
A fly couldn't fart without this guy catching scent of it.Firestarter was one of the first group of King books I ever read.
Back then, it was the ONLY group of King books.
Oh. my. gosh. review to come.....
This was the first novel of Stephen King I bought - well, not exactly me.
I was laid up in bed with a dislocated knee and my aunt bought it for me, to keep me through the monotonous days.But somehow, I never got around to reading it at that time.
By that time I was willing to love anything by Stephen King, and this book didn't disappoint.Charlene McGee is a girl with a gift - pyrokinesis, i.e., the ability to set things on fire with her mind.
Its head, Cap, and his murderous henchman called Rainbird would stop at nothing - even murder.This novel is a page-turner.
I discovered early in the book that much of my remembrance of the story comes from the 80's movie version and if you even suspect the same might be true for you, I urge you to dust this off and neatly place it at or near the top of your to-be-read pile, you won't be sorry.This is my first read of the original language text and I believe in this case this would be the one to prefer over the Swedish translation.
Did the book end up leaving a burned imprint in my mind as much as the movie did?Stephen King's Firestarter, written in his older school style, begins with Charlie and Andy McGee on the run from a company called “The Shop”.
Even though some of the ‘villains’ do actions the reader may not agree with, it’s easier to see why when you’re in their heads.King writes characters clearly, from the adorable little Charlie to the hardened death-obsessed Rainfield.
The feelings of the characters is easy to sympathize with; the unfairness of it all spoke volumes and could apply to several situations not involving pyrokinesis issues in real life.The pacing was concrete as well.
Not long after, Andy and Victoria discover they both have certain psi abilities that they didn’t have before this experiment.
Victoria has a very minor ability to move things with her mind, but she refuses to acknowledge this fact.
They have a little girl, Charlie, a few years later and it isn’t long before she shows her own abilities.
I don’t think they wanted to admit to themselves that she may be some kind of ‘mutant’—a result of the drug.They do not know they are being watched by The Shop.
Andy comes home from work to find his wife murdered and Charlie gone.
This is King writing at his very best..This book combines some of my very favourite elements of a novel: mental powers such as telekinesis and pyrokinesis; an awesome young female protagonist who isn't perfect/infallibly strong; and a ruthless, brutal, government secret agency who will stop at nothing in the name of national security.
The father-daughter relationship penned by King here is just so beautiful.
The pacing of the story is also excellent, full of action but also classic King character development!
We're all suckers for a kindly but tough old man character, right?.Just a classic King novel!
2.5Es un libro que empieza con muy buen ritmo, muy rápido, sin embargo, a medida que iba avanzando se me hacía cada vez más pesado.
En la mitad ya me era muy tedioso; no lo soportaba.
Tiene como 350 páginas sumamente aburridas, repetitivas, pesadas, lentas.
Perdón, King, pero este libro no fue para mí.
Hay gente que lo ama, lamentablemente yo no puedo decir lo mismo.Tengo que aceptar, no obstante, que el final me encantó.Un punto positivo -además del inicio y el final- fueron los personajes.
Son muy interesantes, en especial John Rainbird.En fin, una novela de King que no me agradó como otras.
The whole idea behind a government experiment giving people "abilities" is pure genius.
Firestarter was good, but it let me down in the second half.
King also put a lot of emphasis on Andy and his willingness and the lengths he would go through to save Charlie from the government.
King penned these antagonists to be despicable from the beginning, and never once did I feel sympathy for them or want them to catch up with Andy and Charlie, who were on the run from the government.
I just think the second half lost it's potential.
Pero que tediosoMe es difícil dar una calificación al libro.
Con un comienzo intrépido que en lugar de ser una prueba de lo bueno que resultaría el libro fue todo lo contrario.
Y no porque cuente algo aburrido, sino por todas las divagaciones que tienen sus personajes que con más que innecesarias.
Todas esas reflexiones que te sacan de la idea principal.
Pero no lo hice y por el final se vuelve algo más emocionante pero no demasiado.
Un buen final pero no lo que esperaba pues me hubiera gustado uno más cerrado.
Pero buen final.
No sé si tenga algo que ver, pero era justo mencionarlo.
This one is definitely one of his better offerings but didn’t quite get the upgrade to 5 stars but there is plenty of interesting things going on here to make this a must read for anyone looking for a good psychological thriller with corporate medical mischief.
But, as Uncle Ben once said, with great power comes great responsibility.
He did a number of voices that made the characters come to life and the pacing was pitched just right.
I’d maybe put this in my top 10 Stephen King books and would probably pick it up again when I’m older and forgotten any of it.
(Reading Challenge: 10. Un bestseller del New York Times)A cautionary tale about not get involved in paid college experiments, no matter how much you need the money.Si estás en busca de un libro de horror, esto no es lo que buscas. Creo que podria definirse más bien como uno de conspiración gubernamental. Lo tienen encerrado en una habitación pequeña con una puerta que no puede abrir y una cerradura que no puede forzar. Lo someten a pruebas. Dobla llaves. Cierra puertas. Y según me han dicho, es
Es la historia del amor de un padre y una hija, de una familia rota por eventos imponderables, y ,en una forma cinica, de crecimiento en el caso de Charlie.Me molestó en varios momentos el énfasis que hace King acerca de la belleza de Charlie (de 9 años), y ni decir como me repugnaban los visos pedófilos de Rainbird cuando enfatiza que la "ama" y que ella es "suya", aunados a varios comentarios más acerca de sus "largas piernas" y lo bella que es.
Y no queda de lado eso cuando Andy sueña (view spoiler)[con Rainbird como un pirata a lo Long John Silver, tentando a Charlie y poniendola en peligro; lo cual da otra connotación a la que King debe pensar acerca de la relación entre Jim y Silver ...
I definitely liked Firestarter the most.The reason I liked Firestarter--and the movie based, somewhat raggedly, upon it--was because it contained several elements of interest to me: LSD, CIA, MK-ULTRA and wholesome family values.
So, King's story is based on fact, though the ESP elements are invention, and the way he portrays the agency and government as acting in direct contravention to common values and public law is certainly in keeping with the practice of the real CIA.
Because the governmental agency responsible for the experiments – the Shop – is tracking all of the surviving test subjects to see if any of them are developing powers that can be used as a weapon.When the book starts off several years later when Charlie is seven years old, a mistake by the Shop destroys the family setting forever.
Although it appears Carrie died, I am glad to see Charlie escape.The plotting framework was also like “Carrie” in that the ending of both books our two young female protagonists completely let loose and wipe out everything around them.
Perhaps out of solidarity with Carpenter, I was prepared to piss on the source material too.Firestarter does begin with 8-year-old Charlie McGee and her harried father Andy in New York being followed by government spooks.
In a few years, I want to remember this novel being just as fantastic as it is.Every thriller needs terrific villains and with Firestarter, King hit a gusher with The Shop.
He loves the girl in a way the government agents never would.The flaw in Firestarter is that Charlie McGee isn't the main character.
Years ago, The Shop was responsible for administering a secret experiemental drug into the veins of Charlie's parents when they were broke and naive college kids.
For Charlie's parents, something in the drug altered their body chemistry.
Her father, Andy, could now "push" people into believing and doing what he wanted.
She can create fires simply by using her mind to push it out and, as she got older, her powers became stronger.
Now the government wants to control her ability and will stop at nothing to capture it.Firestarter seems to be an under appreciated tale, if such a thing were ever possible, from Stephen King.
