https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/110996.House_Made_of_Dawn
One is left disoriented and dizzy, often casting about for a link, however tenuous, between the discordant streams of consciousness that speak of Abel's estrangement from native culture and his often thwarted pursuit of the severed bond with the only home he knows - the land of his ancestors.
Aptly, the book borrows its title from the Navajo Night Chant which circumscribes the Native American's identity around the rhythms of Pueblo life.
Words ('house made of pollen, house made of dawn') of a forgotten mother tongue memorized by rote ultimately serve as a metaphorical bridge enabling Abel's re-connection with a lost legacy and, therefore, offering him a chance at redemption.
I found some amazing quotes from the text about the Southwestern landscape, which I loved. I felt, however, that the characters of Abel and his grandfather, Francisco, are an enigma to me. I don't have a lasting memory of them as vivid characters. But what does stand out in the text is the landscape. Perhaps that was Momaday's main point.
It demands a close reading and attempts to break the narrative free of a more western approach to storytelling in favor of a mode of storytelling more appropriate to the Native American context; but in the shifting perspectives and nonlinear timeline, the characters can get lost.
At no point in this novel did I feel I gained any real perspective into Abel (or into any of the other characters, for that matter).
Abel's journey--from alienated returning vet to ex-con in the big city and back to the reservation, where he finds a sort of healing and begins to return to his people and a Native way of life--is one seen from a distance, not one felt.
After committing a terrible crime, his mental state is further unravelling...Major themes in the book are racism and alienation, the loss of cultural roots and the attempt to make the Native world disappear - but also the suffering of soldiers returning from the battleground, the universal strife for acceptance and dignity in human relations, the meaning of family and community, and the longing for spiritual connection.
I read this book in one sitting.
I found it extremely well written, and throughout I felt like I was existing with the characters.
This book achingly portrayed the plight of Native Americans in the middle of the twentieth century, torn between the ancient and modern ways, scourged by alcoholism.
I really liked the way Momaday interspersed past and present, the same way that people actually experience life, in their minds.
Although this work saddens me on behalf of the protagonist, it does offer hope that the ancient ways will be continued by him, so I came away with a bittersweet taste.
1.5 stars? This book annoyed me. It was jumbled and disjointed, which made it quite confusing. I recently read Ceremony by Leslie Marmon Silko and found myself comparing the stories and writing unfavorably for this book. They both deal with the topic of traumatized vets but Ceremony is more cohesive and relatable (I gave it 5 stars), although it was also non-linear.I honestly have little idea what happened in this book and I ended up skipping about 10 pages of the end because I just didn't care enough to read them.
Not a book one can rush through, and with it's lush, poetic prose why would you? Momaday captures the intrisic connections between the natural, spiritual and human worlds that are part of the American Indian experience. Pulitzer prize winner 1969.
It is old and stained and pitted.
The stew sits in front of you, redolent with the essence of the Native American Southwest.
Each ingredient is tangible and distinctive, the warm pieces of pork, the soft orange butternut squash, the posole, the flecked pinto beans, the coarse pieces of onion and fine pieces of minced garlic, the bright green cilantro.
It is almost overpowering, each flavor palpable in your mouth: the warm cumin, the rich dark ancho chile, the bright bite of serrano, the hint of cinnamon and the oregano, especially the oregano.
I don't know if it was the shifting viewpoints and/or the fact that I appear to be coming down with a cold, but it took me far longer to read than I thought for.
The motives of Abel, in particular, were difficult to determine.
Since Abel appears to feel he doesn't belong anywhere especially, it seems to me that there are indeed parallels between the two characters.This novel is worth reading if only for the beautiful descriptive passages alone.
But it is a novel which requires thought & hard work.
Momaday's now-famous book has more social and political importance than literary.
Like the genre it ushered in, it may have been positive for the writer in general, but often relied upon a cliche racist/anti-racist dichotomy played through vague and often meaningless metaphor.The author's busy mind has made a complex work, but not one with any central point or in-depth exploration.
The Native culture Momaday represented was already overwritten by the dominant western culture.
Though Momaday tried to inject some cultural understanding and 'oral traditions' into his book, in the end it is little more than a descendant of Faulkner's.
Folks, let's remember that this is a PULITZER PRIZE winning novel.
M. Scott Momaday wrote his ***Pulitzer-Prize winning**** novel before you were even born, and nothing you do in your entire life will ever earn as much esteem as he did with this work.
So when you bash Momaday, remember that you --and I-- and everyone on this website are just pathetic losers compared to what this guy did.
Pulitzer prize winner!
No one will ever be handed a Nobel Prize or a Pulitzer Prize ....for sitting on their duff and surfing the internet all their lives!
This was an interesting read.
The prose is poetic and Mamaday’s descriptions of the landscape and even trivial matters such as the colors of a room were well crafted.
However, the disjointed narrative and lack of detailed character development hurt the novel immensely and prevented it from being truly great in my humble opinion.
I never felt a connection to the text or what story there was to be had, I merely went through the motions while reading the novel.
It’s well written in terms of prose and descriptive style but it’s lacking in narrative and cohesion.
This was more confusing and obscure than The Sound and The Fury. I suppose the Pulitzer committee was impressed by it's veneer of native American spiritualism. I think it's an unreadable construction of meaningless imagery, with fewer than ten pages of dialogue in the whole book.
vastness makes for illusion, illusion that comprehends reality, where it exists …”I’ve read several interviews with Momaday.
I think her survival was largely intellectual.” Schubnell follows up with this: “And you see that function of creative work as a way to accommodate life in your own case?” Momaday responds: “Yes, and more and more so.
That’s a way of living, of making life acceptable to oneself.” *I’m not sure I have answered my friend’s question.
I started with more recent Momaday works including: Rainy Mountain, The Man Made of Words and In the Bear’s House.
DNF at page 36. Might just be bad timing, but I could not focus on this.
N. Scott Momaday's first novel, "House Made of Dawn," is noted by some critics as sparking a renaissance in Native American literature.
I actually enjoy many novels without the normal narrative, or rising plot structure, but Momaday's books just fails to connect the pieces when needed.The novel centers around Abel, who returns to his reservation following his time in World War II.
At first, we get the story (or lack thereof) from Abel's mind, but then it switches to the Priest of the Sun, John Big Bluff Tosamah, who gives a long sermon.
Their novels seem are clearer in their narratives, but perhaps Momaday's challenging storyline reflects the struggle of Native Americans in contemporary life.
This book reads like many other modern (white, male) writers that I have loved - with some stream-of-consciousness and slipping back and forth between present and past - but I feel like some of the critiques I read have a whiff of culturally-biased criticism based on the fact that Momaday is Native American - that this book is "incoherent" or "scattered" or "erratic" or "obscure" instead of intellectually challenging and admirable.
I generally have no patience for descriptions - but what Momaday did in this book was astounding.
Okay, so, this is such a disjointed novel, told via descriptions of the settings of memories, and I read it so long ago, that it's hard to remember the whole picture or even much of the plot, but I had noted this quote down:But the shoes were brown and white.
They were brown and white; they were finely crafted and therefore admirable in the way that the work of a good potter or painter or silversmith is admirable: the object is beautiful in itself, worthy of appreciation as a whole and for its own sake.
But now and beyond his former frame of reference, the shoes called attention to Abel.
I felt this book bogged down with description.
I didn't care who the characters were; mostly because they're never truely developed, and when people started dying I had to just shrug and think "oh well." The non-linear story telling was pointless and added nothing to the story except more confusion.
The story was simple, but made incedibly complicated by pointless and meaningless description.
Sorry, but I wouldn't recommend this book to anyone, and I'm a little surprised that it won the Pulitzer Prize.
This story could have been something spectacular, and it leaves me scratching my head as to why it is the way it is.
Maybe two or three times in my life I have had an experience like the one I had while reading this book.
But from the very first, Abel's hurts were my own.
The book is true and sad and very human.I haven't read the Goodreads reviews yet, and still I know there will be dissension.
More than half of this book is description of the rain or the mesas or the dawn or Abel splitting wood.
Moved.
I will read this book again, but it moves immediately into my top 10.
Scott Momaday presents the story of Francesco, an old man living in the past.
Woven into this story are the lives of other characters - Father Olguin, Abel, Tosomah - who live in the present, but also in the past.
Momaday is exploring the past and its relationship with the present using dreams, myths, and symbols.
However, and this is a big however, this book is boring.
Momaday jumps from past to present, from character to character, without any warning to the reader.
I can't believe this book won a Pulitzer.
Lovely man, lovely writing, boring book.
Along those same lines, this book is not an instantiation or proof of a theme, but a gestalt, and so we have ever-expanding circles, from Abel, to his father, to the white woman who fucks him, to the priest who doesn't realize he wants to fuck the woman, to the dead priest whose diary that priest reads.But can a novel work simply by reporting lifelike events, and trusting there is something worthwhile in them?
The Sun Priest seems to be directly summarizing something thematic, in contradiction to the overall modus operandi of the book.Many people say the story is about Abel's inability to connect with either the Kiowa or the city.
This might be a little too much work for the average reader, but I feel this book, one of the first from a Native American writer to gain major recognition and critical acclaim, is an important contribution to Native American literature, and helps to provide some insight into the Native American experience.This story is told in four parts and, aside from part 3, The Night Chanter, is told through the lens of Native American storytelling conventions.
This can be very frustrating for a reader that isn’t familiar with this storytelling convention, but this different concept and appreciation of time is important to Native American culture and is reinforced by the orality of their traditions.
I first read House Made of Dawn in a 1970 class on modern American literature.
complexity." When we showed up for the first class on House Made of Dawn, both factions were sure Momaday was on "our side." And of course, we were both both right and wrong.I start with that because I think it speaks to the importance of Momaday's brilliant first novel.
True enough and, especially for Native readers, the novel's meditation on tradition and modernity remains as compelling as it ever was.
Yet the juxtaposition of nature and the human psyche, whether it is the outcome of deliberate stylistic choice or not, is not enough for the reader to understand the characters' motives or even trigger sympathy towards them.
Furthermore, the theme of nothingness is a reminder to the reader not to force interpretations or analysis onto the characters.
The characters' lack of development or having their psyche externalized into nothing/everything could be seen as deliberate but could also be an escape from facing direct emotions or could simply be the result of the writer's incompetency.
Initially I had a hard time staying with this book as it jumped around but I'm glad I did.
Momaday talks about words defeating the Indians and he is a master of words in this book describing everything in the human experience from scenery to destiny.
It's heavy and melancholy as Abel, a veteran of WW II returns home to the rez in NM and has problems with alcohol.
He kills a man and goes to prison.
Momaday has me wanting to go out on a mesa and watch the sun rise by the time the book finishes.
Ugh, it's taking me too long to get through this book; about a third of the way in I decided to drop it.
This book is beautifully written, but the focus is on the setting and the characters, and the plot is just not developing or moving enough for me.
I don't have as much time to read as I used to, so if I don't either really enjoy reading a book, or feel I can profit from it in some way, I'm not going to waste my time - too many other books on my pile that I want to read.
I never used to abandon books, but I'm making the choice to do so more at this point in my life.
The destruction of the native people's lives is furthers this ongoing cycle but as Momaday puts it bluntly:"They [Natives] have assumed the names and gestures of their enemies, but have held on to their own, secret souls; and in this there is a resistance and an overcoming, a long outwaiting."Following this same viewpoint, Momaday's reflections on the natural world are not only the most beautiful and poetic sectors of the book but are also some of the most chaotic.
This chaos is furthered by setting the other half of the novel in Los Angeles -- a city that not only grew in size post WWII but that is also known for literally creating a fake natural worlds both in Hollywood and with the construction of a faux metropolitan oasis to live in.
poetry and loss do not make a novelI'd read and admired Momaday's short stories before I started reading HOUSE MADE OF DAWN.
The second strong feeling one gets from Momaday's first major work is of quiet loss---what the Native Americans once had and how, through the violence he scarcely mentions, it was all taken away.
As a novel illustrating the difficulty of changing worlds, this one certainly has moments of brilliance, but there are caveats.
HOUSE MADE OF DAWN is a novel made of fragments.
As far as beauty goes, perhaps Momaday's world is more beautiful, but it is less populated by well-rounded characters.
In terms of the story itself, I find it chaotic, disjointed, and hard to follow.
Now this may be the author’s intent, perhaps to mimic the actual experience of Native American life in the navigation of multiple cultures and identities, but there still, I believe, has to be a story that is understandable and coherent.
This book, I think, fails on that front.
Just a couple of examples: I have no idea as to the relevance of the eagle capturing part of the story.
Perhaps if Momaday had pieced together some more transitional passages between these segments, the book may have resonated more with me.
