https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/17788401-ugly-love
Finished Ugly Love in exactly 24 hours, couldn't put it down! So good. Now I know what all the fuss is about with Colleen Hoover books! Can't wait for the movie :)
For days after  I finished reading, my mind would drift back to Miles and Tate and relive moments of their story because I just couldn't let go.________________ I fell in love with the story on page one.
You might think that the first page is a little early to proclaim undying love for a book but I instantly felt connected -- it was like I'd just stepped right into the story.We first meet Tate when she moves in with her brother for a fresh start where her path quite literally crosses with airline pilot Miles Archer as he lies passed out drunk outside her new place.
HOLY CRAP ON A CRACKER!!!!
MY HEART IS SO PERFECTLY BROKEN!
I DON'T THINK I TOOK A BREATH THE WHOLE TIME I READ THIS BOOK!
WHAT DID YOU DO TO ME COLLEEN HOOVER!!!
I HATE YOU BUT I LOVE YOU!
IF YOU CAN'T GUESS IT BY MY NON STOP CAPS THEN I DON'T KNOW WHAT ELSE TO DO THAN SCREAM "I LOVED THIS BOOK!!!!"WOW JUST WOW!
I DON'T KNOW HOW OR WHEN I'LL GET OVER THIS BOOK HANGOVER.
Ugly Love was nothing like I expected it to be.
I excepted it too be like a 50 Sh
I had no idea he was going to break my heart.All that being said I have a few bookish confessions to make before I really get into the review, I choose to read this book 1) because I heard it was becoming a movie and if there's anything I love nearly as much as reading it's seeing movies 2) because this is who they have playing Miles:
I loved how I thought this story was going to be Tate's but turned out to be Miles'.
I love how I thought this book was going to be a light sexy read but turned out to be a heartbreaking love story.
2 stars!First, I really have to thank my good friend Geri for buddy reading this with me or I would’ve taken a screwdriver to my eye long before I finished this book. I honestly have  nothing  positive to say about this book so I’m going to put all my complaining in a spoiler tag so I don’t purposely hurt anyone who loved it. (view spoiler)[Usually when I read CoHo books, I am instantly hooked and transported into whatever world she’s created. I love that about her writing and very few authors c
positive to say about this book so I’m going to put all my complaining in a spoiler tag so I don’t purposely hurt anyone who loved it.
I don’t care if it’s all in the name of love.
(hide spoiler)]I’m not even going to bother going in-depth with all the times he’s hurt Tate and callously brushed her aside but the one scene that made me hate both characters was (view spoiler)[during sex, Miles calls out his ex-girlfriend’s name and Tate just tells him to finish.
(hide spoiler)]Everything this woman has written, I have enjoyed reading but it’s too bad that this time, CoHo wasn’t able to win over my emotions.
2-UGLY–Stars I know most of my GR friends–in fact, most everyone–loved this book, so please don't throw rotten tomatoes at me. I wish I could say I loved it, too, but I can't. When I read a romance, I need to FEEL some semblance of that romance. I need to LIKE at least ONE of the characters. If that's not possible, I need to be able to at least SYMPATHIZE with one them. Unfortunately, I never once felt the romance, and I could neither like nor sympathize with either one of the characters. As thi
As this story progressed, I found it impossible to like the hero or the heroine when I felt neither one of them deserved respect or admiration.
The hero, Miles, treated the heroine, Tate, with such blatant disrespect it was appalling, all the while wallowing in self-pity and self-hate to excuse his behavior.
Then there was the heroine, Tate, who had so little respect or dignity for herself when it came to the hero, that she continually allowed him to use and treat her like a PIECE OF TRASH.
So basically, the whole book was the hero showing love and respect to his first love, while treating the heroine, with her blessing, like trash.
It was horrifically repetitive, and not in a way that enhanced the story (The main character's inner thoughts included the phrase "I am liquid" about a hundred times in many different contexts, and my brain turned to liquid a bit every single time.) Each chapter also alternated between the two main characters, and it did NOT work for me (skip to 2b for answers on this point).2.
If the writing hadn't been so bad, the sex scenes might have been okay, but still, MILES IS HORRIBLE so probably not.
“Love isn’t always pretty, Tate. Sometimes you spend all your time hoping it’ll eventually be something different. Something better. Then, before you know it, you’re back to square one, and you lost your heart somewhere along the way.”   “Ugly love becomes you. Consumes you. Makes you hate it all. Makes you realize that all the beautiful parts aren't even worth it. Without the beautiful, you'll never risk feeling the ugly. So you give it all up. You give it all up. You never want love again, no
Ugly love is amazing!!
It is the 3rd time I read it and I still cried even though I knew what's going on..It all started when Tate moved in with her brother Corbin.
BUT(view spoiler)[1)Miles' past!!
He gave Tate the best advice ever!!4)I didn't like Miles' rules but I loved Corbin's three rules!“What rules?”“Well, for one, I’m not allowed to break your heart,” he says.
“Second, I’m also not allowed to break your damn heart.
And last, I’m not allowed to fucking break your damn heart.” 5)I am looking forward to watch the movie!!
5+ Flying in Love stars! Colleen Hoover has done it again. Not that I ever doubted her, but I didn’t know what to expect when starting Ugly Love. It’s safe to say she never disappoints. With her amazing writing style, fascinating characters and original story lines, I was hooked from the beginning. I expected to love this book. What I wasn’t expecting was for my heart to be shredded. Ugly.Love. Destroyed. Me. This book pulled at my heartstrings. I felt so much heartache while reading. There were
Not that I ever doubted her, but I didn’t know what to expect when starting Ugly Love.
When Tate decides to move in with her brother for a while, she never expects to meet a man like Miles.
Most of her books make me feel strongly and contain a lot of emotional moments, and Ugly Love had that for sure...
I stayed up way past my bedtime reading this book.
Ugly Love is captivating, beautiful, emotional, and devastatingly painful to read but I’ll let you in on a little secret.
It’s the beautiful moments like this that make up for the ugly love.
Second, this main character had absolutely NO self respect.
The main conflict in the book follows Miles.
She is completed subordinated to Miles, and she’s the main character!!!!!!
Tate was pretty much a doormat this entire book for Miles to walk across as he sorted his own issues out.
No. It’s manipulative, it’s one of the most UNHEALTHY relationships I’ve ever read about, and it gives off COMPLETELY disgusting messages to young women reading this book.
Every time I read a new Colleen Hoover book, it genuinely shocks me that people rate them so highly.
2.5 'underwhelming' stars!Well... I hate being in a minority when it comes to books. I wanna be able to love or at least like the books that most of my friends love. Furthermore, there is no other book I would really love to have the same feelings for than this book because it's CoHo, you guys. I love CoHo. But.But...I.Didn'tLove.This.One. I wish I did. Most of the things that bothered will be reflected in the way I'm writing this review.Can.You.GUESS.What.It.Is?See, I could forgive Tate for bei
Most of the things that bothered will be reflected in the way I'm writing this review.Can.You.GUESS.What.It.Is?See, I could forgive Tate for being a doormat during most of the book.
My father visits Phoenix a lot.
Nope!I would probably felt more of Miles pain had it been written in a straight-up, no BS prose.
Frankly, if I'd wanted to read poetry, I'd read a poetry book.
Again, I'm in the minority with this but that's just really how I felt about it.I did like parts of it, hence the two stars.
But Tate and Miles relationship didn't really evolve for me.
Certain pieces of the book are more lyrically pronounced, but I’ve always found her writing to carry a heavy poetic prose.
There were intense moments where the writing looked and felt like it was falling down off the pages.
And I liked Ugly Love.Tate meets Miles when she moves into her brother’s apartment complex.
This book really narrows in on the romance, without too much side story.
But here is what I think most die-hard romance fans will love: Miles.
"It's the beautiful moments like these that make up for the ugly love.
Steamy.▪	Characters: Brooding, protective hero with a dark past.
I don't think that I can say anything that hasn't been said before about Ugly Love,nor that my tangled thoughts will do justice to a book that was more than a book,but I know one thing for certain.It left me an ugly mess.And it proved that love is beautiful.  “God gives us the ugliness so we don’t take the beautiful things in life for granted.”  I ate a bucket of ice cream and cried my eyes out to get over the sorrow that tried to consume me,but it wasn't enough.The only way to make sure that my
I ate a bucket of ice cream and cried my eyes out to get over the sorrow that tried to consume me,but it wasn't enough.The only way to make sure that my heart is still in place is the pain that pierces it with every breath I take.I cursed Colleen Hoover for bringing me to a sobbing state,for writing so vividly and masterly that my heartbreak is a being of its own,for making me care more for fictional people than the ones I know in real life,and thanked her at the same time.For making me feel alive,even though it was killing me.
I finished this book in 12 hours. ONE DAY. I finished it in one day. I'm giving it 5 stars because I still can't believe that I, Natasha Polis, finished a book in a day. I've never done that before. Ever. It was so good and so entertaining. Lots of sexytimes, very mature scenes, which I did enjoy but still not heavily detailed which I'm very thankful for. The emotions and tears I felt for and had for Miles really made this book. I can't wait to read another Colleen Hoover book!
I LOVED UGLY LOVE. Here's my full booktalk/review: http://youtu.be/iM2MxDhWufY
I couldn't endure Miles' melodramatic chapters anymore. And the narrator (audio book version) had such a deep voice; it was painful to listen to and, at times, hard to discern the words uttered. But, well, this was one of my first experiences with audio books. DNF at 33%.
1 STARYou know when even one star feels too generous? Yeah, that's me right now.  "Ugly love becomes you.Consumes you.Makes you hate it all.Makes you realize that all the beautiful parts aren’t even worth it."  {MY RANT}Someone, please explain to me why everyone hates Miles? Now don't get me wrong, i don't like the guy either but i perfectly understand the cause of his actions. Did he ever promise Tate "true love" or any other shit? No, he offered fucking with no attachments and no sentimental b
"Ugly love becomes you.Consumes you.Makes you hate it all.Makes you realize that all the beautiful parts aren’t even worth it." 
Like, "once i get him to sleep with me I can trick him into talking to me." or "maybe if we fuck daily he'll eventually fall in love with me." Ugh are you fucking kidding me?
I feel like there were lots going on at once, but none of it was original.
I feel nothing for her and Miles as a couple or fuck buddies.
This is possibly the last book i would read by Colleen Hoover.
Maybe I'll read that one as well but i am in no hurry.
Title: Ugly LoveSeries: StandaloneAuthor: Colleen HooverRelease Date:  August 5, 2014Rating: 5 starsCliffhanger:. No HEA:  (view spoiler)[ Yes (hide spoiler)]Ugly Love is exactly what you can expect from the title. It’s not flawless romance about flawless couple who quickly gets their happily ever after, not at all. Ugly Love is gritty and real and beautiful in completely astonishing way. It was the 'ugly' that made this novel 'beautiful' in my eyes. It was the struggle, the fight that character
Ugly Love is gritty and real and beautiful in completely astonishing way.
Tate and Miles’ story is much darker and more mature than Colleen’s previous books; it’s sexier, edgier.
Ugly Love is story about Tate, twenty two year old nurse in trainig that moves into her brother’s apartment in San Franciso to live with him till she finds a place for herself.
Miles told Tate from the very beginning that there won’t be love between them or anything more than causual hook up.
And while Ugly Love is definitely different from other Hoover’s work, it’s just as hooking, just as amazing and heartshattering as the rest.
Review was originally published on Through the Chapters|Blog*4.5 stars*What a ride it's been!A love story between two people, Miles and Tate, who weren’t ready to fall in love, or at least they thought so.
I prefer to go with this version, seeing that I don’t want to believe that Hoover created a weak-willed feminine character without self-worth and pride.On the other hand, as I was learning more about Miles' past, I’ve become more lenient.
As times goes by, they just don’t want to step out of their “comfort zones”; they prefer to get stuck on the pain they got used to experience for a long time.
THIS BONUS SCENE COLLEEN POSTED HAS ME SOBINNGGGGGG:https://www.facebook.com/AuthorCollee...I have no words.
I loved both her and Miles' point of view.
I loved Miles.
Just read the damn thing because I promise you, you're missing out if you don't.1 of my new favorites.
Well done.Favorite quotes:"He's smiling, and I didn't realize how much I missed seeing that smile.
At me.""I would infiltrate his heart and spread myself around like a virus.""Sometimes my silence is saying 'I don't know how to speak to you.
I don't know what you're thinking.
All the words.
'You make it so hard to breathe.'"****sighhhhhhh****
<3I was just like this while I was reading this book...
Then, before you know it, you're back to square one, and you lost your heart somewhere along the way.” “It's the beautiful moments like this that make up for the ugly love” “It's love in general I don't want, Tate.
He's nowhere, then suddenly he's everywhere, whether you want him to be or not.” “Sometimes not speaking says more than all the words in the world.
He’s nowhere, then suddenly he’s everywhere, whether you want him to be or not.” “You're looking at me like you fell in love with me.""I didn't fall in love with you.
“I didn’t fall in love with you… I flew.”  I am ruined.I would like to think that after more than half a dozen books read and loved, I could call myself a seasoned Colleen Hoover reader and thus be equipped for all her ‘mind trickery’, and yet nothing, nothing in this world could have prepared me for the emotional avalanche that is Ugly Love. This is a book like no other in this author’s impressive repertoire, a book that gets under your skin from the very first sentence, and then page after p
I am ruined.I would like to think that after more than half a dozen books read and loved, I could call myself a seasoned Colleen Hoover reader and thus be equipped for all her ‘mind trickery’, and yet nothing, nothing in this world could have prepared me for the emotional avalanche that is Ugly Love.
But on her very first day there, as she is moving into her new home, she meets her neighbour Miles, a young pilot and a close friend of her brother’s, and from that moment onwards, her heart doesn’t stop doing summersaults every time they run into each other.
its as easy as that.my love for all things CoHo aside, let me begin by saying i can understand why this book has received a lot of mixed reviews and negative feelings.
because i think this is probably my least favourite book of hers that i have read thus far.
true, there was a lot of backstory and reasoning behind why everything played out the way it did, but it was what it was.i do appreciate what CoHo did though, by showing the downright ugly and painful parts of love.

"If I were capable of loving someone… it would be you."  This story has a bit of a different vibe from Colleen Hoover’s other stories, yet it had the same amazing flare, and inspirational message she delivers every darn time she gifts us with a book. The story will grab you and make you feel, cringe, cry and then the author will build you back up again so carefully and then bam it’s over and you wish it had just one more chapter. The story starts in the present day with Tate Collins, our heroin
The story starts in the present day with Tate Collins, our heroine, moving into her brother’s apartment in San Francisco.
The past chapters are the story of the relationship between Miles and Rachel.
These past chapters follow present ones and bring major anxiety every time you get to them because your gut will tell you something went very wrong to this first love story.
Tate hears and tries very hard to follow Miles rules but she just can’t help herself from feeling that…
Tate takes what she can get because her heart is already invested in Miles Archer and so she gives her one and only rule.
I was more interested in Miles' past and I had many theories, but I wasn't truly accepting of him being super in love with a girl he laid his eyes on for 5 minutes.
But if you read it, it's more like an obsession.
My new favourite thing is Rachel.”I was expecting a shrine dedicated to her.
You barely know a thing about him and you say it's love?
Liquid flows.”Tate is literally obsessed with Miles.
Miles used to be obsessed with someone else.
I'm upset I didn't like this more but the characters were all tortured and obsessive and addicted to one another.
Actualización:ESTO (porque me niego a llamarlo libro, historia o... algo) se convertirá en película. Hágame el favor... JAJAJAJAJAJAJAJAJAJAJA! *la risa es nerviosa y de completa incredulidad*De entre los libros de esta señora, van y escogen el más fuck-up. Al parecer si un libro tiene un protagonista imbécil/loco/machista/HDP tiene más posibilidad de convertirse en película. #ShameOnYou--°--°--°--°--°--°--°--°RESEÑA:RESEÑA: http://arcoirisdelibros.blogspot.com/...1,5/5Se me pasó por la cabezaes
Ni siquiera conoce a Miles,sólo se acuestan un montón de veces,y ella no puede preguntar sobre su vidaporque es una de sus reglas.Así que, básicamente, el 80% de la historiaes sobre cómo Tate se enamora de un hombre quela trata mal, que le dice que no puede amarla,que sólo la busca para tener sexo,que la hace sufrir todo el tiempo,que le da falsas esperanzas,y al que no conoce ni un poco.Por favor, no debo ser la única queNO encuentra lógica en esto.4.
The “thing” that ruins Miles for love is definitely ugly.
don't expect a futureBut Tate lets her heart "hope" for more.
I broke both of Miles rules.
I wanted to know about his past and I hoped for their future.
One thing that really stood out to me in this book was the sexy time.
CoHo branched out and added some steamy scenes in Ugly Love.
I don’t know where he’s been hiding but I'm glad he's coming to the big screen.
Standalone**Won a signed paperback copy of Ugly Love from a Facebook contest hosted by Book Babes Unite.
She was the kind of girlfriend God gives you young, so you'll know the loss for the rest of your life.FIVE #LoveGetsUgly STARSMiles Archer and Tate Collins ♥Ugly Love Colleen Hoover
Tate becomes creepily obsessed with Miles almost immediately, and I just wanted to rip her eyeballs out of her face.
I would infiltrate his mind so I could see every single one of his thoughts.I would infiltrate his heart and spread myself around like a virus.I would call myself the Infiltrator.Other than her pro creep status, Tate also deserves the award of being deemed a doormat.
Miles is a fucking asshole
I am not okay with the way Tate just let Miles step all over her heart repeatedly.
Like that time when he said another girl's name when they were having sex, and Tate just let him keep going.
This was my first time reading Colleen Hoover.
I see her books being read all over GR..but that also scares me.
What if I didn't like it?
I threw caution to the wind after talking to my pornie bestie; she was nice enough to tell me to shut up and read it.Let's do this!
Tate is moving in with her big brother so that she can work and go to school in the bigger city.
Once at his apartment she finds a guy passed out at his door.
Her brother Corbin tells her to help the guy into the apartment and par
Then we find out that passed out guy (Miles) is hot.
The smexy times in this book are pretty hot.
(Says the queen of whiny ass choppy sentences-hey, I don't get paid for this shit!)Tate agrees to the rules but she just can't help herself and gets all feely for Miles.
Why can't girls just bang the hot guys?
I just read this book for entertainment this go around.
I didn't hate this book but it wasn't the best smexy time book ever.
She has threatened me told me to read it about 30 times.
