https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/684708.The_Wooden_Horse
‘Wooden Horse’ is a fictionalized narration of the true events behind one of the most ingenious and daring escape made by POWs from a German prison camp during World War II.
It is in the first phase of the narration that the reader gets introduced to the ‘Wooden Horse’ – a wooden vaulting horse meant for exercise with a hidden hollow inside which was made by the prisoners to camouflage the entrance of an escape tunnel, which was under construction- and this explains the title of the book.
My first escape story from a POW camp. I loved it! The ingenuity of it all. Speaking with second world war veterans, they tell of amazing things the prisoners got up to and how they all felt it was their duty to try and escape.
This is an intriguing story of the hardship, challenges and horror of WW II as prisoners in a camp try to escape. The story is based on fact and is one to grab.
I read a 1959 mass market paperback edition from Berkley Books.
In the introduction, it says that it's a special edition for teens.This is a fictionalized account of an escape from a prisoner of war camp run by the Germans, written by one of the escapees.
The way the men deal with each other and the indignities and dangers of their imprisonment is interesting, as are the difficulties faced by the escapees as they try to get out of German-controlled territory.
The story is well written.
The story was interesting enough, and suspenseful enough, without it.
There are two significantly different versions of this book. Eric Williams' original 1949 edition was written while military censorship was still in force, and is a simpler story, built around simpler characters.In the 1979 edition, Williams sets the records straight on (particularly) one event that was invented to make a better ending for the 1949 book. The rest of the book is significantly revised and expanded, also, and the PoWs' language becomes less "comic-book" and more (one assumes) true to life.Read the 1979 revision if you want the actual story - the 1949 is more like a Boys' Own adventure.
Amazing story of life in a stalag and escaping from it. Hogan's Heros isn't quite as far fetched as we might think. Men can be amazing in their kindness to each other under adversity. I am so glad that I decided to read this.
One of the great escape books of all time about RAF flyers imprisoned in an infamous German POW camp during World War II.
A daring tale of escape from the eyes of a British soldier in a German POW camp... Told with a flowing style, underlying humor, and quick dialogue. Good Book!
Very gripping story. I enjoyed it.
A fascinating read on prisoner of war life and the strong need to escape; after all, that is the prisoners duty - to escape. And knowing that this is a true story made it all the more interesting to me. I love reading the survival stories of World War II. I read from a 1950 printing in which Eric Williams wrote he could now freely write of the Escape and had used a little of the material he had originally written in his 1943 book "Goon in the Block".
This is a true story about escape from a German Prisoner of War Camp by three British soldiers during WWII.. It involves the use of a Wooden Horse but quite different from the famous horse used by the Greeks at Troy. It is a good story highlighting the ingenuity of the English prisoners at the camp and the daring successful escape from the camp and return to Great Britain.
This book was like a rollercoaster ride. Sometimes the action zipped along quickly and others it slowly ascended towards the climax. Written about an escape from a World War Two German camp, detailing how three British officers hid the entrance to their tunnel under a wooden vaulting horse. I enjoyed this book even in the slow parts and wood recommend it to anyone who enjoys war stories.
Not really my style of book (I picked it up because it's one of my dad's favourites), but an amazing story! I guess it really is acquired taste though: Williams obsesses over the smallest details and therefore the main part of the story feels very slow at times, whereas the ending to me was very sudden and abrupt.
Very good 2 cassette audio book that I read in February 2007 even though this book was published in 1984. This is a true 2 hour story about how two English pilots were shot down, captured, imprisoned at Stalag-Luft III on December 17, 1942, and how they escaped to freedom using a very clever deception, and a lot of determination.
An interesting and amazing story especially knowing that it is a true story. It is the story telling and not the story that is the reason for three and not four stars, but being written as a novel instead of a non-fiction story it somehow fails to really capture me.
The rest is overA never ending source of fear and danger from the German Army spurs two American Officers to circumvent the prison camp rules and regulations to work endlessly on escape. I really liked this book.
Read ages ago and need to re read. During the digging of the tunnels in Stalag Luft III (the Great Escape), some prisoners came up with an ingenious invention to fool the Germans and shorten a tunnel by hundreds of yards. Amazing story and written extremely well
An old friend revisited!Great read! I first read this in the mid 1960's, and enjoyed it hugely. When I saw it, I knew that a re-read was in order. The understated British manner is captivating. Mr. Williams was a true cousin to our own greatest generation.
I was engrossed from the first chapter. I could not imagine being in the position of being a POW. These men not only escaped but made it home. I felt for them at every moment of their journey and felt immense joy that all three escapees made it home.
DutyHonor CountryCourageFriendshipDedicationPerseveranceI could go on. This book encompasses all of the above and more. A great tale , well told by the author. This story grips your attention while reading and it won't let go.Excellent.
A Journey back to my youth.I first read this book as a teenager in the early 1950's. I later saw the movie. Both experiences were first class. Thank you Bookbub for finding and releasing the book electronically so that I could relive the prisoners experience once more.
Novelization of a true WWII escape story. Three British prisoners use a vault horse with a false bottom to dig a tunnel under the wire. It was a clever plan that worked and two of the prisoners were able to escape all the way back to England.
UnremarkableThe escape processes was pretty interesting. Once they got out there really was not much suspense during their flight out of Germany to home. It wasn't totally boring, but it was not compelling either.
I really enjoyed this book. I have wanted to read it for a long time and eventually I got round to doing just that. I like reading books based around the second world war and it helps when you know it really happened.
CaptivatingI would recommend this book to anyone that likes reading about the resilience of people in any circumstance. I was absorbed in this book from the first page to the last. I was a teen during Vietnam and there are still so many of our guys unaccounted for.....
Very touching
The best account of a POW escape attempt. I have read this book over and over. Also recommend The Tunnel, about a previous escape attempt.
An honest account...a good read :)
good WW2 prison camp escape.
You want to read another escape story from the time of the Great Escape? This one is easy to read, fascinating and filled with great history every high school student should know!
