https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/702817.Tales_of_the_Jazz_Age
Tales of the Jazz Age is a collection of 11 short stories published in 1922, although most had been published earlier in national magazines.
Fitzgerald published 4 novels, that was his preferred way of writing.
But he wrote short stories to make money, and being in constant financial trouble, it was the fastest way for him to make cash.
It's certainly worth the time and it is aptly named because if you ask almost anyone to name one writer associated with the Jazz Age or the Roaring 20's, 9 out of 10 will say F.
I've been intending to read Fitzgerald for some time and I'm very glad to have begun with this collection of stories.
Not all stories are equally successful but all are interesting and some are truly wonderful, Among those I particularly enjoyed were "The Camel's Back", "May Day"", "O Russett Witch" and "The Lees of Happiness".
Themes central to Fitzgerald's life and other works are scattered through these tales: the disparity of wealth and poverty, good and evil, bad things happening to good people, zany characters and activities, true love and love gone very bad.I highly recommend this story collection and am sure I will read these again.Thank you Tajma for leading me here.
I read This Side Of Paradise and was enthralled, and this book of short stories was equal parts enchanting and intelligent.
I did enjoy it a lot, but had to separate it from the movie, as the two are so different.
Is this all a dream?" Then when the catch happened, it was like an adventure movie.
Maybe I'll go back and read it again, but that was the only story that I didn't enjoy at all.I definitely recommend this one!
If you're tired of reading long novels and want a wonderful collection of short stories, go for this book!
The Jelly Bean - 2/5 starsThe Camel's Back - 2/5 starsMay Day - 4/5 starsPorcelain and Pink - 2/5 starsThe Diamond as Big as the Ritz - 4/5 starsThe Curious Case of Benjamin Button - 5/5 stars FAVOURITETarquin of Cheapside - 3/5 starsO Russet Witch - 5/5 stars FAVOURITEThe Lees of Happiness - 4/5 starsMr Icky - 2/5 starsJemina, the Mountain Girl - 3/5 stars
There are many allusions to Oscar Wilde (my bae) in Scottie's work, but never have I felt the connection stronger than in this collection.
These short stories could've have been written by Oscar himself – the "l'art pour l'art"-vibe was strong in every single one of them, and we even saw some imitations of the dandy.
I think that Tales of the Jazz Age is a fantastic collection to get familiar with Scottie and the common themes in his later works.My absolute favorite story in this collection is May Day btw, you should totally read it!
I can conclude, having finished this collection of short stories, that with the exception of The Great Gatsby, F. Scott Fitzgerald is just not really for me. This collection was saved, in my opinion, by The Diamond as Big as the Ritz, Porcelain and Pink, and Jemina the Mountain Girl. Barring some moments of subtle but shocking endings, I found the rest of the stories dull, and the characters empty, and the prose ineffective.
This collection has eight stories: The Curious Case of Benjamin Button, Head and Shoulders, The Four Fists, The Cut-Glass Bowl, May Day, O Russet Witch, Bernice Bobs Her Hair, and The Lees of Happiness.
A handful are incredible: Head and Shoulders, Bernice Bobs Her Hair, and The Lees of Happiness were far and away my favourites.
Benjamin Button was great, The Four Fists was fun but forgettable, and The Cut-Glass Bowl was just alright.
They were lyrical and well-written, with engaging prose, but some stories were significantly more poignant than others, while Bernice Bobs Her Hair was mostly hysterical.
Gli anni dell'età del jazz sono gli anni caratterizzati da feste, balli e vita mondana fino alla crisi economica e al crollo della Borsa del 1929.Gli 11 racconti della raccolta che sono accompagnati dal commento dell'autore, mostrano una vita fatta di lustrini e di paillettes, una vita effimera, a tratti frivola.
Un pessimismo dal quale ci si può risollevare rifugiandosi nella campagna, luogo dove sono ambientati gli ultimi tre racconti e che sembrano restituire una sorta di malinconia e di nostalgia per la vita genuina, vera che quell'ambiente è in grado di dare.
One of the best short story collections I've ever read! Many of the stories felt like 5-starred reads, but some were just s0-so (hence the 4 stars). A must read for any one who enjoys excellent writing and touching stories. Somehow these stories felt more powerful than some of his novels. I was reminded what a brilliant writer Fitzgerald was.
Fitzgerald wrote two great books, 'Gatsby and Tender is the Night.'Maybe more writers, should do a little more partying and not take themselves so serious.""The Jazz Age" was given to me as a gift quite a few years ago.
It taught me nothing about "The Jazz Age" that I didn't already know and it sadly re-enforced my notion of Fitzgerald as a tragic figure.Yet, like always there was a touch of genius in the collection, that reminded me of "The Great Gatsby and Tender is the Night." In closing, this amazingly gifted artist writes, "It was not Monte Carlo I was looking at.
The remarkable story "THE CURIOUS CASE OF BENJAMIN BUTTON" is even better then the movie which was made based on this story.This story was inspired by a remark of Mark Twain's to the effect that it was a pity that the best part of life came at the beginning and the worst part at the end.
By trying the experiment upon only one man in a perfectly normal world I have scarcely given his idea a fair trial.
Over the last 10 minutes I must have switched between 3 and 4 stars about 20 times - but I did really like most of the short stories. Fitzgerald has a way of creating the not always endearing but nevertheless interesting characters in his short stories that are sadly missing in his novels (The Great Gatsby excepted).
Two overlapping themes recur: (i) wasted privilege, youth, lives; (ii) all that glitters is symbolic & brittle.
Apart from the famous short about ole' Benny there is nothing here to write home about. The acclaim for F. Scott Fitzgerald is overrated, the skill of the pen does not exist. Two books, two failures and no amount of telling me what I am misssing will convince me to read anymore of this third-rate writer. Awful, just awful.Two stars for the story of Ben.Yes my kind bookshop gave me a refund.File under c for Murakami... (That's c for crap).
I haven't read into the subject, but many of his young female characters seem to adapt this young and carefree flapper/dancer/socialite archetype who often spoil the dreams of ambitious young men.The Lees of Happiness ☆☆☆Don't let the title fool you, this too is a bit of a downer filled with regret and remorse.Mr Icky ☆☆Another strange one-act play combining the folly of old age and Fitzgerald's bizarre sense of humor.Jemina, the Mountain Girl ☆Strange, absurd, in the vein of Tarquin of Cheapside and Mr Icky.Overall ☆☆☆☆While most of the stories were either too strange, so-so, or downright depressing, the few truly great stories (and majority of the volume's volume) made this book a worthwhile read.
Overall Rating: 4.5 stars. Breakdown of Individual Ratings: 5 stars: 'The Lees of Happiness', 'The Curious Case of Benjamin Button', and 'Head and Shoulders'4.5 stars: 'The Cut-Glass Bowl'4 stars: 'May Day', 'O Russet Witch', and 'Bernice Bobs Her Hair'3 stars: 'The Four Fists'This is a fabulous selection of stories. If I'm going to be a Fitzgerald purist (which, admittedly, I am), I take issue with the fact that the Penguin Hardback Classics edition I read, though gorgeous, does not contain the
5 stars: 'The Lees of Happiness', 'The Curious Case of Benjamin Button', and 'Head and Shoulders'4.5 stars: 'The Cut-Glass Bowl'4 stars: 'May Day', 'O Russet Witch', and 'Bernice Bobs Her Hair'3 stars: 'The Four Fists'This is a fabulous selection of stories.
If you wish to read the original Tales of the Jazz Age, complete with the author's charming notes on each individual story, I recommend the cheap-and-cheerful Collins Classics edition entitled The Curious Case of Benjamin Button and Tales of the Jazz Age. It may not be as pretty as this edition, but it has 'The Diamond as Big as the Ritz' and 'Porcelain and Pink' in it, so that really doesn't matter.I shall now get down from off of my soap box and talk about what I DID like about this deceptive but wonderful collection of short stories.
It's been over a decade since I've read anything by F.
Scott Fitzgerald and I had forgotten how much I enjoy him.
But when the stories are good, I don't want them to end.
He can set a scene and dialogue beautifully and makes you feel like part of the story, only to hit you with something wonderfully absurd to stir up your enchantment.
I don't know why I waited so long to revisit F.
Scott Fitzgerald, but I won't wait another decade to do it again.
Okumam uzun sürdü ama sevdim.F. Scott Fitzgerald'an nedense uzak durmuşumdur. Bilmiyorum. Romanları da aynı tattaysa bir an önce okumalı. Öykülerin hepsi aynı kalibrede değiller. Ama çoğu oldukça hoş. Zaten bir yıldız o kadar da güzel olmayan bir kaç öykü yüzünden eksik.
He's close enough to maintain warmth, honesty, and intimacy with his characters, but just far enough away that he renders their imperfections, and the ugliness of the world they live in, without disdain.
He's the long-ago friend who gently preserves the memory of everything good about the past without turning his cheek to the present.The final short story in the collection, The Lees of Happiness, is particularly poignant.
"She was in his room constantly, bearing medicine, straightening a pillow, talking to him almost as one talks to a nearly human dog, without hope of response or appreciation, but with the dim persuasion of habit, a prayer when faith has gone."
Downloads of "Tales of the Jazz Age" are FREE on iTunes, and so far I think this is a great collection.
I really enjoyed this side of Fitzgerald, which is a little more light-hearted than his full-length novel output.:)The books is divided into two sections: his great jazz age work and his bizarre fantasy tales.
While I didn't dislike his fantasy tales (Diamond As Big As Ritz, Benjamin Button)I found them too jarring set against his more timely Twenties stories, the dynamics being so different they almost seemed at odds with each other.
I really enjoyed this collection and liked seeing Fitzgerald's range as a writer."Love is fragile, but perhaps the pieces are saved, the things that hovered on lips, that might have been said. The new love words, the tendernesses learned, are treasured up for the next lover.""I smell sweet, I was made for love.""everybody's youth is a dream, a form of chemical madness"
Ho adorato immensamente la prima parte, meno la seconda. "Primo Maggio" è qualcosa che va letto, come ognuno sente di "dover" leggere "Il grande Gatsby" o "Belli e Dannati". Anzi, ho trovato in questi racconti i grandi temi di Fitzgerald (che cosa brutta da dire "i grandi temi", ma ci siamo capiti no?), ma ancora più ricchi, più dinamici.
Basically everything F. Scott Fitzgerald has written is pure gold. It took me a long time to finish because I read one short story at a time, and didn't want the book to end because every story is written so beautifully.
Engaging, Insightful & Fascinating! I Loved It!
This just didn't do it for me. There are a couple of great stories (Benjamin Button, The Diamond as big as the Ritz), but the rest left me underwhelmed.
Only a few gems in here. Benjamin Button of course stands out. Not my favorite of his collected short works though.
While, in my opinion, 'Tales of the Jazz Age' (1922) does not offer as good a selection as 'Flappers and Philosophers' (1920), even though it is more varied, 'Tales of the Jazz Age' is still an entertaining and an illuminating read; which is characteristic of Fitzgerald.'Tales of the Jazz Age' includes some of Fitzgerald's better-known stories, featuring, for instance, fantasies such as 'The Curious Case of Benjamin Button' and 'The Diamond as Big as The Ritz' (one of my favourites and a story which tends to overshadow all the other pieces).
In short, 'O Russet Witch!' is certainly one of the better stories in 'Tales of the Jazz Age'.
I was afraid of getting disappointed.
How could I not after loving The Great Gatsby so much?
It felt to good to be true, but to my great fortune it was true!
'The Curious Case of Benjamin Button' is just as brilliant and entertaining as The Great Gatsby!
Every short story's language is magnificent and flows so beautifully and every short story provokes the reader with new feelings; it's a roller-coaster!I do normally not like short stories collections that much (which is why I chose this as my next Fitzgerald-pick; if it was bad, I would just tell myself it was because it was short stories).
But now I am no longer afraid to try another one of this genius' works!
Kitapta yer alan çoğu öykü o kadar anlamsızdı ki bir kaçı dışında aklımda kalan ya da üzerimde etki bırakan hiçbir şey okumadım. Öyküler genelde anlamsız olaylar silsilesi şeklinde ilerliyor ve tatmin edici bir sonuca bağlanmıyor. The Great Gatsby'nin kitaplığımda özel bir yeri olduğundan bu kitaba büyük bir beklentiyle başlamıştım ancak hayal kırıklığı oldu. 3 yıldızı okumaktan gerçekten çok hoşlandığım 3 öykünün hatırına veriyorum, kalan öykülerin toplamı bunlardan 1 tanesi bile etmiyor kanaatimce.
Some of these stories I really liked and others not so much. The fantasies were my favorite. There were great moments of description, narrative and characterization that were quintessentially F. Scott Fitzgerald—I very much enjoyed those.
