https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/62801.Thirst_for_Love
Verses had angrily left me, words refused to find a refuge within my wits and leisurely Mishima’s manuscript had melted into an obscure viscosity leaving behind only the recurring images of a mystified Etsuko and the pair of socks.
Etsuko was the fated romantic hero in a world where love was misplaced behind the countless agonies, fatigued by the dilemmas of egotistical hunger trapped between the insatiable nature of vengeance and obsession.
Love had metamorphosed into a dreadful entity for Etsuko , love had no proper place then , only proper death.The pair of socks is surely not diabolical after all.
Thirst for Love is a shattering depiction of self-depravity.
Etsuko is a broken woman beyond repair, hunted by the scars left by her torturous husband.
And in his dying moments, she was the model wife, not out of love or affection, but out of insane happiness rooted in her knowledge that her jealousy and suffering was bound to flourish stronger than she had known.
We all have a need to be loved, this beautiful oasis we all long for and worship.
This function was lost to Etsuko, maybe broken by her suffering, and it proved to be her bane.Thirst for love is the story of a woman who only asked that she be loved but was denied.
Madam is like some kind of proud beggar."Mishima is a very unusual man in many ways but most of all in his ability to create impressive female characters.
Her madness is really just an extreme version of the very common romantic delusion that turns love into a kind of twisted spiritual quest to heal one's wounds by inflicting pain on others.
The old man is in awe of her, and very jealous when she forms an obsession for a young farm labourer.
In fact from any perspective...to fall in love so obsessively is a form of insanity, but even more so when the object is such a vacant and simple character.
Tradition vs ModernityMasculinity vs FemininityOld vs NewPride vs ZealFear vs Necessityand the splash of Blood that paints it all.
Sete de iubire este un roman cutremurător despre dragoste și nepăsare, despre puterea necruțătoare a geloziei, despre dorință și respingere, pe scurt despre o femeie care dorește totul și nu poate ierta nici când i se oferă o parte din lucrul la care râvnește, pentru că simte minciuna ce se ascunde în spate lui. Etsuko este o figură tragică, prinsă între minte și trup, dar care nu își folosește puterea decât pentru a frânge destine, iar povestea ei este impresionantă tocmai prin simplitatea cu care sunt prezentate evenimentele în mijlocul peisajului idilic al unei Japonii marcate de război. continuare
Mishima followed up   Confessions of a Mask  with a book that was purposefully completely different. From the first-person coming of age tale of a young queer man to a third-person story of a woman who is lusted after by her dead husband's father. It's a departure in every sense.This book is far too conventional for Mishima. It doesn't seem to include any of his trademarks and any trace of the Mishima we know and adore seems to be missing here. The novel itself is fine. The story trundles along
Mishima followed up 
Confessions of a Mask
with a book that was purposefully completely different.
From the first-person coming of age tale of a young queer man to a third-person story of a woman who is lusted after by her dead husband's father.
It's a departure in every sense.This book is far too conventional for Mishima.
It doesn't seem to include any of his trademarks and any trace of the Mishima we know and adore seems to be missing here.
The novel itself is fine.
The story trundles along and there are admirable parts (especially the ending) but not much else.
When Saburo said "I love you" to avoid an awkward conversation, I thought "the dumb cow's going to fall for it!" but she was ahead of me and read the situation the best.Yakichi, however, is further proof that Mishima just hates old people.Although the Sugimoto family have land and staff, there's something strangely suburban about the location and attitudes.
Her nervous system has just got into the habit of it, I suppose, and when she falls in love it has to end in a miscarriage.'""People who only wear ready-made clothes are apt to doubt the very existence of tailors.""The magnitude of pain leads people to believe in the indestructability of the body.""'But why, why, did you kill him?''He was making me suffer, that's why.''But it wasn't his fault.''Not his fault?
Hard to believe he wrote it in his early twenties, although you can see that he expanded upon a lot of elements in his later books: the frailty, hysteria, and ease of manipulation of women; the youthful and masculine man who is adored by these women and in a position to use them for his own gain; and the older man, manipulating the feelings felt by others for his own gain.
Could be that I have issues with 'feeling' the character, although this was not really an issue with me for this reading, further heralding Mishima's talent.
!!رواية غريبة جداً, وصعب تحديد موطن الغرابة..يمكن لولا الترجمة كنت استمتعت بيها اكتر واديتها ال 5 نجوم كاملين..الرواية برغم ان فيها جزء كبير من الملل وده اكتر شيء بكرهه الا إني ماقدرتش ماكملهاشيمكن لأنها كانت ماشية بملل ملل ملل ملل جزء فجأة يصحيك وياخد انتباهك وتنسى اللي فات..كان في اسهاب في الوصف الا انه كان بيوصف المواقف والحاجات بطريقة حسية ومميزة برغم انها كانت في معظم الأحيان ..تشبيهات مظلمةالرواية بتحكي عن سيدة اسمها ايتسوكو.. غامضة صعب تقرا افكارها او كلامها لكن سهل تقرا عاطفتها, شديدة

Yukio Mishima committed ritualistic suicide or seppuku shortly after I returned home from Vietnam in 1970.
It made an enormous impact on me.
Why would a man in the prime of his life and on the verge of winning the Nobel Prize for literature kill himself?
It is a question I continue to ponder.
I have read most of his books since then and love them.
This is one I had not read yet.
I highly recommend the movie Mishima: A Life in Four Chapters if you want to learn more about him and his works.
Pues esto es lo mismo, que yo no haya dejado el libro (aunque lo he barajado en un par de ocasiones) y haya acabado yendo de la mano con Etsuke por su tormento vital, son precisamente argumentos que validan la calidad de la novela.
Mal cuerpo y mala sangre, eso me ha dejado, así que no se si recomendar o no recomendar la lectura de esta novela del torbellino Mishima, de la cual se hizo una adaptación al cine en 1967
و عندما تظن أنها انتهت من الحب تماماً و إلى الأبد يرى فيها أب الزوج المتوفي عشيقة أكثر من مثالية و لأن الحب يحلو له أن يكون غريباً على الدوام تقع بدورها في غرام الخادم الوسيم سابورو .
يغوص الكاتب في أعماق البطلة و يتناول موضوعات الحب الأثيرة الغيرة و العجز و القسوة و كل سلوكيات الحب التي تجعل منّا كائنات أسوأ مما نحن عليه : Dلم أكن يوماً من عشاق الأدب الياباني و هاروكي موراكامي ليس بالاستثناء فلا يمكن القول أنه كاتب ياباني تماماً .
Thirst for Love has the tragedy of Shakespeare, the romantic scandal of a soap opera, and the brutality of a back alley stabbing.I was hesitant about reading this book because a lot of reviewers underscored it, claiming he was too young when he wrote it.
It isn't his best work, but it's still damn good.Thirst for Love is a masterful portrayal of insane jealousy taking place in a psychologically suffocating environment.
His early development is fascinating to read.
Although it isn't Mishima's best, I never felt Thirst for Love was underdeveloped when taken as an individual work.
Este libro es increíble. Redondísimo y con un final gigante de esos que sorprenden pero después es una sacudida donde una se da cuenta que no podría haber habido otro final.Mishima no le tiene una pizca de miedo a meterse en los lugares más oscuros del alma humana y en eso Sed de Amor comparte mucho con El Color Prohibido, dos libros profundamente perversos. Lo admiro por eso.
Depressing tale of Etsuko, a widow who just lost her husband who didn’t love her, where she subsequently submits numbly to her father in law’s desire for her but soon find herself in love with her young servant, Saburo.
Loved the characters, Etsuko and Saburo especially.
Etsuko’s obsession was brilliantly explained and Saburo’s oblivious to such feelings was simple but fairly well crafted (I especially loved Saburo’s characterization at the end of the book)I thought that this story would end in a typical manner, BOY WAS I WRONG.
Fairly twisted and disturbing.My actual rating: 3.9/5 stars.
“În momentele acelea, nesiguranţa fericirii pe care aş fi simţit-o dacă îşi revenea şi nesiguranţa vieţii lui erau făcute din aceeaşi plămădeală. De aceea, dorindu-mi fericirea — dar nu acea fericire nesigură - chiar atunci, în acea clipă, mi-a fost mai simplu să o găsesc în certitudinea morţii lui decât în nesiguranţa supravieţuirii. Speranţele pe care mi le puneam în viaţa lui, de care trăsese minut cu minut, erau totuna cu dorinţa să moară... Şi totuşi, corpul lui încă se mai zbătea să trăiască. Voia să mă trădeze...”
"An overpowering, corrupting spirit seemed to hold her in invisible chains."A dark and disturbing novel, even for Mishima who can elevate the dark and disturbing to beautiful heights.
He may have reached the heights of that here, in one of his earlier novels.A young widow, whose husband's last feverish days saw her in utter ecstasies watching him die, moves in with her father-in-law's family, has sex with the father-in-law and covets the simple-minded farmboy that works in the house.
Not recommended for fans of joy and/or goodness-in-others.
Сюжет построен вокруг Эцуко.
Короткие рубленные фразы, бесконечная тревога в природе – автор стилистически подчеркивает ту пустоту, которая царит в душе Эцуко.
В простого крестьянского юношу Сабуро, в котором примечательны лишь его свежесть юности, на как же она контрастирует с немощностью Якити!Многослойность, многозначность, многомолчаливость, сдержанность – книга-загадка с подсказками в каждом слове и фразе, через которые нужно прорываться к правде.
Чтобы финал не шокировал, как удар тока, когда ты теряешь ориентацию в пространстве и ощущения в теле.Как многие восточные книги – очень странная.
Как многие восточные книги – очень чувственная.
Как все восточные книги – многогранная.
Tenía muchas ganas de volver a leer a Mishima, pero la verdad es que esta historia me ha dejado totalmente fría... Para mí no representa prácticamente nada de lo que suele retratar el autor, y aunque conserva algunas de sus genialidades características, me ha parecido bastante insípido de principio a fin.Creo que posiblemente se trate de uno de los libros que escribía por escribir y vender sin más, porque se nota que no le ha dedicado mucho tiempo elaborar ni la historia ni su desarrollo. Hasta el momento, el libro de Mishima que menos me ha gustado, la verdad.
Дуже дивна і несподівана книжка. Сама би навряд взял в руки, якщо чесно. Втім текст здався мені дуже кінематографічним, гарні описи осінньої природи та настроїв героїні зробили все це кадрами з якогось фільму. Фільм за книжкою теж є, якщо мені не зраджує пам'ять. Вразила фантазія головної героїні, така інтенсивна і така відштовхуюча. Все це помножене на японські реалії дає в принципі непоганий текст, але перечитувати бажання не виникає.
Great Yukio Mishima.....once more has been overflown with astonishing feelings.....
Thirst For Love is an early work of Mishima yet it's well-crafted.
The name of the book is Thirst for Love, the main character Etsuko suffers from not getting enough of love and compassion.
In the first part of the book ( I separate the book in two sections not Mishima), the lack of connection between Etsuko and her husband causes Etsuko's abnormal jealousy and in my opinion breeds the very seeds of her madness.
After the festivalm scene, the story speeds up with Miyo's pregnancy, Saburo and Miyo's marriage decision, Miyo's being sacked and the last section.
I think Mishima is a powerful writer--his imagery and cadence. He writes in prose poetry. But I had trouble connecting with the people in the novel and found it difficult to sympathize or care about them. I wanted to feel the sympathetic humiliation of the infidelity of Etsuko's husband and her relationship with her father in law, but I could not. She was so restrained yet seething, so alone, but unsympathetic. Is this a metaphor for Japan after the war? A thought provoking book but difficult to embrace.
Early Mishima. I'm a big fan of Mishima, one of my favorite writers and it was really interesting to read this and see how he grew from writing this to writing The Sea Of Fertility. It's a short book, barely making it to 200 pages and obviously the writing isn't as confident or beautiful as his later work but it is a good story and i really didn't see that ending coming for some reason and it fit well. Looking forward to reading the rest of his work.
أول رواية أقرئها من الادب الياباني الذي أود التوسع فيه وأقرأ لكتاب متنوعين.بدايتي كانت مع الكاتب يوكيو ميشيما روايته كانت غريبة وممتعه يعيبها بعض احداثها الممله و وصفه الزائد لأشياء غير مهمه في الاحداث.
The earliest days of the haiku, before Basho, before Shiki, were filled with the vigor of an age in which the spirit of the ordinary had not died.""On certain occasions human beings are imbued with the belief that they can accomplish anything.
None can avoid these moments of destiny; nor can anyone - no matter who he is - avoid the misfortune of seeing more than his eyes can take in.""Prolonged suffering makes one stupid; but one made stupid by suffering knows joy when he sees it.""This tale, combined with what she had seen earlier that day, made Etsuko feel as if every inch of her body had been impaled with needles.
Ακόμα και όταν αναφέρει την λάμπα της κουζίνας των 100 βατ μου φέγγει μόνο με 40 εσύ συνεχίζεις να τα βλέπεις όλα φωτεινά, μέχρι να σε οδηγήσει αριστοτεχνικά ο Μισίμα στο φινάλε στην μέση της νύχτας.Η πλοκή είναι το κλουβί που πλέκει μόνη της η Ετσούκο, εξαναγκάζοντας την εαυτή της σε ένα κυνήγι όχι της ευτυχίας, αλλά της ψυχαναγκαστικης δυστυχίας που επιβεβαιώνει την αυτολυπηση της.
Μια ιστορία αντιπροσωπευτική της ιαπωνικής ψυχής, που μοιάζει να ξεκινάει ένα μουντό πρωί να συνεχίζεται σε μια ηλιόλουστη μέρα και να κορυφώνεται μέσα στις λάσπες της άγριας νύχτας.
Ahora tengo demasiadas preguntas en la cabeza por culpa de esta novela. Siniestra , hermosa, terrible y etc.
Resulta muy interesante el personaje principal, Etsuko, con sus profundos pensamientos relativos a la muerte de su esposo y con su ferviente (e inverosímil, incluso) deseo hacia un joven campesino. A diferencia de otras obras de Mishima, esta carece de ese hermoso lenguaje para las descripciones generales que le caracterizan, aunque manifiesta una gran habilidad al describir el cuerpo humano como siempre. Fue víctima, también, de una deficiente traducción y edición (hay varios errores). Me ha abrumado la intriga, me ha acongojado el final, pero tal vez no tanto como otras obras del autor.

