https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/596307.Crown_Duel
I will start with what I like about this book: the courage of the main character is admirable, in the end I am even impressed by her realization of her ignorance, but that is where my like of this novel ends.
The main character, beyond courage which might more aptly be described as willfulness, has no qualities to set her apart from any of the other characters in the book.
Even with her ignorance, the main character's blind stupidity is inexcusable.
Overall the more I discuss this book after reading it the less I like it.
It was quite the adventure from the start and I knew pretty early on that I’d really love Mel — even when she’s kinda rude and stubborn.
I loved watching Mel and her people think of cunning ways to outsmart these larger and well trained troops.
I really liked the world, though that and the magic system were a little too sparsely constructed for me at times, and loved finding out more about the other kingdoms and players within.
Definitely a book to pick up if you are craving fantasy but want something shorter and fast paced!

And that is just the beginning.I kind of liked her, despite the fact that she comes out unsure of herself, capable of misunderstanding people and situations, which leads to mistakes that drive part of the plot.
She comes out as immature most of the time, in fact we don’t know how old she is, so I can’t say it’s not appropriate.
Towards the end we understand that she can learn with her mistakes and starts to change.It’s clearly a young adult book, not my type.
Despite that, it’s very well written and being relatively short I was able to read through to the end without problem.
Still one of my favorite books.
Purely on the strength of that story, I went right out and bought the related double novel, Crown Duel.
I'm sorry to stay the story was far better than the book.
Early on, a pair of characters are described as having hip flagons.
Some continuity flaws don't help.The story itself is determinedly Young Adult, though the protagonist's age is never clear.
Dumb is another, and not one that most readers are looking to relate to.Even before that point, the story has its flaws.
The characters are likeable and Mel is mildly fun, but there's no real depth anywhere.All in all, disappointing.
That was exactly my thoughts during the first 100 pages or so then the book picked up its pace and just when I was about to start enjoying it the book stopped abruptly.
In a way you can call this a perfectly strategic move on the author's part because now I don't think I can rest without reading the second book in the series.
Intially I thought of giving it 1 star rating then after 50 pages it increased to 2 stars then towards the end 3 stars which makes me wonder whether I would have enjoyed it more if the book was a little bit longer.
2.5 starsI read this for the YA/MG battle, and my review and comparison to the other battle book can he found here.This is book I of a two-book story, and even though the ebook I read had both books combined into one, I'm still going to rate and review them separately.
Mostly because they are very obviously two separate books, but also because my reaction to each part was vastly different.
However, I struggled too much to get into the story initially, and I believe book II is definitely much better.
I have both the paperback and the ebook.
I read the paperback then went to the ebook because it has some truly priceless snippets at the back.
They tell part of the story from the perspective of Vidranic.Anyway, I'm glad I read A Stranger to Command before this book.
I think I enjoyed it more because I understood the character of Shevraeth (Vidranic) so much better than I would have without it.
Its well suited to teen readers but I think adults can enjoy it just as well.
I look forward to reading more books set in this world.
So as it turns out, I am a total and complete sucker for: Pride and Prejudice/North and South + strong young woman comes of age + strong/silent/tall love interest + secret admirer/courtship by letter a la You've Got Mail + magic + court politics. TOTAL SUCKER. Whatever, I still loved it. I liked the second half with the court politics and intrigue (Court Duel) better than the first half of battles, but the first half is necessary for setup. There are a few characterizations that seem a bit forced to support the second half (Mel's brother Bran, mainly).
I was expecting a fantasy with a strong female lead.
You know there are lists for everything here on GRs and several with "fantasy" and some derivative of "strong female lead" as the topic.
I really felt like I was reading a period piece with random magic stuff and hard to pronounce names thrown in here and there to make it a fantasy.
Now don't get me wrong, I like period pieces but it's just not what I was hoping this book would be.
If you have already read Crown Duel perhaps you will also enjoy the works of authors like: Phillip Pullman, Tamora Pierce, Garth Nix and Madeline L’Engle.
Phillip Pullman’s Dark Materials beginning with The Golden Compass and Madeline L’Engle’s A Wrinkle in Time series are also fabulous works of fantasy with elements of magic, coming of age, and adventure driven mostly by an intelligent female character.
In the event that you have read all of these I suggest Victoria Hanley’s The Seer and the Sword, this story has a strong female protagonist but is at times also driven by her male counterpart both are nobility forced to escape and unknowingly begin to shape the future for their country.
It is the story of Meliara Astiar, a noblewoman from an impoverished mountain province, who, along with her brother Bran, initiate a desperate revolt against the tyrannical king Galdran.
Along the way, she is captured by the enemy and begins a complicated relationship with Vidanric, a nobleman who has long been engaged in a covert attempt to topple Galdran.
After Galdran is killed and deposed, Meliara comes to court and gets involved in political and romantic intrigue.This novel was a lot of fun to read.
Smooth, subtle, and enigmatic, Vidanric is an excellent foil for her.
Because, and here is where the killing it with fire comes it, I hate her.Now thoroughly annoyed, I said, "Well, if you're done listening to us sit here and make fools of ourselves, why don't we get on to whatever it is you're going to hold over our heads next?"She thinks everyone is out to get her, that they are laughing at her simple country ways.
(Both quotes taken from professional reviews on the book.)I sincerely wish 'spirited' didn't mean the same as 'unruly, stubborn brat'.Finally, I speculate that the guy that had been nothing but kind to her is going to be a love interest in the sequel.
3.5? Can't decide how to rate this book, I liked the story well enough but my feelings for the main character kept getting in the way. Sometimes I liked her, most of the time she got on my nerves. But then the story flowed the way it did because of all her actions so I guess it's thanks to her that I liked the story? Okay, whatever. Of course I'm going to read the next book because I want to know if she's going to learn to make mature decisions. (She better.)
Onto the next book!The writing is just so beautiful and descriptive and very reminiscent of old fantasy and I loved it!
My only complaint is that I wish there was a map cause I got a bit confused about where things were, which annoyed me.I love Bran and Mel’s relationship!
I honestly wish there was a book through his perspective while he was at court planning everything.I didn’t mind kind of the abrupt battle at the end.
I’m pretty excited to see what happens next at court since I love that stuff so much!
Loved this book(s)!
I wish there was more to read, but she did wrap it all up nicely at the end there.
;)*As a side note; I loved the gender equality in this book.
I can't count the number of times reading this I unconsciously assumed someone was male because of their job only to have them referred to as she in the next sentence.
The sexism in the fantasy genre is real and I was glad to see this book making steps towards changing the role women are "allowed" to play along the same lines of Wonder Woman, Ghostbusters 2016, and Oceans 8.
Simply put, Sherwood Smith's book is a romance for the MG/YA crowd.
They live in what is left of the family castle, scrounging to pay the rents due the king.
They don't have a particular longing to get involved in politics, but when their father dies, he forswears them to fight and over throw the king.As they don't have any money this is rather difficult.
Sherwood Smith's writing brings the story vividly to life and he manages to bring matters to as much of a conclusion as you can given that there is a follow up book.Enjoy.a mini Pam Tee review(BooksForKids-reviews.com)
We read thru the heroines POV which wasn't too bad until the hero is introduced and I get really annoyed at not knowing what his true motives are.
She was alright until the end when she started to get really annoying in her distrust for the 'hero', even though he's proved his side time and again.
I didn't mind the "she gets sick then is fine then gets sick again and again" as much as some other reviewers because that at least felt real.
At least it wasn't a long read....
The main character, Meliara Astiar is courageous, loyal and kind (she think about her people)But the good points is end here, now for the bad pointsThe rebellion is totally stupid, she don't have a power, magic or swordfighting or army or whatever just a useless girl with his brother.
Just keep dreaming honey...And Meliara is brave yes but she's so stupid and useless, gosh she didn't do anything at all.
gosh that rebellion happen because of the covenant a.k.a because of them, and they do nothingBut a lot of people give this book a high praise so maybe it just not my cup of tea.
Don't start reading this expecting lots of action and adventure and a brave heroine.
While the heroine does have some endearing qualities (and she is quite likeable) she doesn't DO much.The thing that bothered me the most about this story was that their wasn't much action from the heroine and the "good" side.
She simply had to let things happen to her and react to them.A lot of the world in the book was left unexplained.
The world was interesting, and it could have been handled much better if I actually understand what some of the elements meant.I was quite disappointed with this story, but I'm going to go ahead and read the second book.
I really wanted to like this because of all the hype, but it fell quite short of my expectations.
Of course, this seems like a kid's book, so maybe my expectations were too high, but it had so much potential.
The heroine annoyed me (probably because of my own biases), the motivation for rebelling was thin (especially since the rebels forget their own covenants soon enough), and the ending felt forced.
The heroine did improve somewhat at the end, so I do think it's possible that the rest of the series might be more tolerable.
An entertaining read. I tend to stay away from YA these days because I find the market oversaturated with lackluster tropes and flat, predictable characters. This book, however, can be read by all generations and each generation can pull something from it. I appreciated how the heroine doesn't have special magic powers or abilities; she's got to resolve things on her own (with the help of some good timing). The love story was a bit rushed in the end but I appreciated it nonetheless. A recommended read. I look forward to reading more of Sherwood Smith.
Shhhh. My opinions are secret due to the YA/MG Battle.I just couldn't get into this. :( I KNOW.Okay, so still didn't love this, but I liked it better. I still sort of feel like a lot of the details were lost on me and, ugh, I wish Mel had LISTENED more, Re-read March 2016Book battle re-read.
Sherwood Smith & Tamora Pierce are the queens of YA medieval fantasy. That is all I have to say about this series. I really need to read more Sherwood, her writing is brilliant;) Oh, yes, and I am a sucker for Shavraeth.
The Goblin Emperor is a fish out of water story with an ignorant protagonist swept into holding the throne of a powerful kingdom; he learns as he goes, allowing his naivety and newness at court to help guide him in his interactions.
His asking questions allows us to learn along with him.Crown Duel on the other hand, though it also stars a young ignorant protagonist, tells a tale of a person who never admits being wrong, believes that everything they learned in their backwards little province was right, and expects anyone connected to the court to be evil.
I know many people didn't like this book because the main character is kind of insufferable for the first half of the book.
Meliara learns about half-way through the story the truth of her flaws and has to come to grips with the fact that her temper and ignorance have caused most of her own problems.
For the same reasons that most people didn't like this book, I actually loved it.
I found it refreshing to see a story from the perspective of an ignorant, angry, and immature character who then has to deal with her issues.
I liked it.
Crown Duel: 3/5Court Duel: 4/5
In Crown Duel, Sherwood Smith brings us to a divided little country called Remalna, on a planet called Sartorias-deles—very much like our own medieval world, but featuring its own strange fauna.Of these strange fauna, the most remarkable are the trees called colorwoods.
He extracts an oath from his two children, twenty-one-year-old Branaric and seventeen-year-old Meliara, that they will defend their people and their land against the encroachments of King Galdran.Shortly after their father’s death, the kids find themselves leading an armed rebellion against the King.
Some of the violence is slapstick.Nothing a kid who’s read The Hobbit or the Narnia books can’t handle.ConclusionCrown Duel is smashing good fun and leads right into the sequel, Court Duel.
These are not the Wren books.
They're not train-wrecks, they're beautiful names with that just off feel.
What saved this book from a three star rating was the candle stick.
Things happen that change them, and that are later proof for the second book but I don't feel it.
There's proof that they're naïve, there's grounds for feelings in the second book but I simply do not feel them.
Certain events are glorified in the second book, and I don't see why.
Except of course the little scene with the candle stick.
I will content myself with the Wren books for now.
