https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/64284.Heaven_and_Hell
He really doesn't care for kangaroos.
Hay fragmentos en los que propone ideas muy interesantes respecto el arte y la religión. Otros trozos son muy aburridos, es demasiado estático y da la sensación de que repite todo el rato las mismas frases.
Accidentally deleted my review! Basically, this is nowhere near as good as The Doors of Perception. Pretty much the whole thing is Huxley's poorly thought out (and often seemingly arbitrary) art criticism. He makes very little effort to actually justify anything he says.
Continues on in the same theme as Doors of Perception. The appendices were the most interesting part of the book.
Impressive systematic analysis of Heavenly and Hellish sensorials across times, cultures, religions and artifacts from the perspective of psychedelic experience. Personal account(s) of latter is recommended)
Amazing!
My signed first edition of this book is one of my greatest treasures.
one of the greatest essays I have ever read
"Sanity is a matter of degree ..." -Aldous Huxley, Heaven and Hell
I do think there was some genuinely interesting theories presented such as the relationship between various forms of art and religion and the "other world" of human transcendence.
The biggest argument in this essay is really that humans desire a need to self-transcendence and that alcohol/opiates cause a lot of harm to the individual and society.
Huxley is very pro mescaline and gives various reasons on why we should substitute one vehicle for transcendence for another.
In the "Drugs That Have Shaped Men's Mind" essay, Huxley accomplishes everything in "Heaven and Hell/Doors of Perception" sans art history references and vaugeries.
Overall I think the essays are worth reading but just okay.
And this brings into question if everything he says is truthful, or based off of vague literature, ideas estranged by notions of aestheticism and beauty.
Whether that may be true or not, the idea that Plato's theory of forms could be applied into a contemporary understanding of the workings of vision is surely a good read.
What I love most about this book is that he takes this presupposition and extends it to matters of art, literature, history, and what the future could hold in store for our perception of beauty through transcendental visual experiences.
Huxley presents the idea that our minds are inhabited with some kind of creatures/things that are the equivalent to the Australian fauna for a European/American.
At a certain point I couldn't help but wonder - are these creatures/things manifestations of something real, some higher reality/truth, as Huxley seems to believe, or are they simply hallucinations of the deprived brain?
Definitely an interesting read for anyone interested in the human mind and its altered states, but I personally found the Doors of Perception MUCH more interesting and thought-provoking.Also, I was a bit disappointed that the aspect of hell was touched only marginally.
Though not as eye-opening or enchanting as The Doors of Perception, Heaven and Hell offered some very interesting ideas about the relationship between the visionary experience and religion, art and mental illness.
Contains a couple of gems (including his metaphor of the antipodes of the mind, complete with marsupials), but is more art criticism than anything else. Rather read Doors Of Perception again – there's not much new here.
Sinceramente... Huxley sigue desarrollando la hipótesis que plantea en Las puertas de la percepción, solo que el primer ensayo supera al presente en todos los sentidos...
Rating: 2.0
I think Huxley's just bored me to death.
In a word, even if it overviews a bunch of religions and artists, it's just a bit surface-y.However, I loved the part on differentiating between coloured and black and white dreams and perception, as I realized I do capture surroundings according to this "logic" through my photographic lense: "to be effective, symbols do not require to be coloured...
What is good enough for the waking consciousness is evidently good enough for the personal subconscious, which finds it possible to express its meanings through uncoloured symbols...
Dreams, which are not given but fabricated by the personal subconscious, are generally in black and white.
He purposely had the drug administered to him in 1953 and wrote this essay in an attempt to explain its creative effects.
He uses the word "Antipodes" dozens of times in this writing to explain its polarizing effects on the mind.
Most normally to explain the creative aspects of the drug.
"Antipodes" is most often used to explain opposite sides of the earth and in this work he uses it to describe the Old World as Europe and its opposite Australia and in particular: kangaroos.

Beautifully written and thought provoking essay comparing similarities of heaven despite differences in geography and ideology.
Aldous Huxley sites several instances in culture and art where despite the differences we as humans all seek a similar desire for light - and reaches the conclusion that perhaps that is something inherent within humans.
He does not attempt to sway or prove but rather lay out all the instances where he has noticed a oneness.
This essay would be a useful and intellectually stimulating for all those with an interest in: philosophy, psychology, theology, sociology, anthropology, art and history.My only complaint, though understood based on the entirety of the essay, is I wish an equal analysis of hell was performed.
Vastly inferior to 'The Doors of Perception'. It mostly seems to focus on art (paintings), which in my opinion was already too prominent in 'The Doors of Perception', but, with a few exceptions, it becomes unbearable here. Furthermore there are far less interesting observations than in the book's predecessor. The final few pages on 'Hell' were interesting but it only scratched the surface, I would have preferred for Huxley to have focused more on this instead of the endless painting critiques. Wouldn't really recommend this book.
This book makes me realize I know very little about art. Therefore I will have to educate myself on art. It would make the book that much more interesting if I knew the paintings and painters he was talking about. I did look up a lot of the works he was describing and that helped a lot to push me in the direction of understanding some of what he was writing about. Good quick read.
Interesting contemplation on visionary art and its significance with hallucinogens and hypnosis. I kept the internet by my side while reading to better inform myself of the continued siting of artists and authors Huxley regurgitated to better describe his thought process. At first it seemed daunting but soon had me enthralled in learning more about the visionary art world.
Further thoughts from Huxley regarding human escapism, looking primarily at how it relates to religion. Again, it's just a long essay which can be read quickly but will have you musing for hours and hours!
I'm too young to grasp this kind of mysticism and the antipodes of the mind failed to grasp my attention, I enjoyed the Appendix's and some points where certainly interesting, more of an essay really
This is primarily an insightful examination of Huxley's views on art. While I don't necessarily agree with Huxley on all of his claims, I found value in his unique and fresh perspective. As is typical for Huxley, the elaborations of his ideas can become long.
Appendixes saved the reading, rather poetic -but accurate- interpretations of a somewhat forced look at a variety of art images.
Paranoid
This essay continues Huxley's work on perception and experiences. It discusses the relationship between real life objects, abstract notions, art, and how human perceive them differently.
