https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/144258.The_Diamond_in_the_Window
I loved this book when I read it in sixth grade.
The story stuck with me through the years -- probably more than any other novel I read at that age.
It's spooky and unpredictable and completely engaging.
But as much as I liked it, I forgot the title.
I was thrilled when I finally figured out the title and got a copy of it as an an adult.
I think young readers might be impatient with all the information on transcendentalism.
I suspect I skimmed through some of that as a kid, but it obviously did not hamper my enjoyment of the novel.
I've been looking for this book for decades (under the wrong title) and finally found it on a vintage children's fiction blog...and on eBay. Reading this book again after more than 40 years was one of those rare times when something actually is as good as the memory.
The Diamond in the Window is a top notch children's book for any decade.
Even for adults, it's both a fun and gripping read, and filled with valuable, not-too-pedantic lessons for children (and grown-ups too).
It's a scintillating tale about two good little children who save the day.
The first chapters had such promise, with a crumbling old house I would have loved to live in as a kid, two adventurous protagonists with fun quirks, and an intriguing mystery for them to solve.
However, as Eddy and Eleanor began to dive into their Transcendentalist dreams, the book began to lose me.
I can see how I might have enjoyed this more as a kid, but as an adult reader trying it for the first time, it felt dated and didactic.
I still find myself entirely enchanted by its wonders.
What a wonderful introduction this is to some of our most influential and revered historical figures: Louisa May Alcott, Ralph Waldo Emerson, Henry David Thoreau.
Superbly thought out and executed, Ms. Langton's work in this novel never fails to delight in this unusual and captivating tale.
Ms. Langton has a wonderful sensibility for creating appreciation for artifacts both physical and intellectual.
The novel is able to smoothly offer the idea of choosing wisely now for the future you create for yourself, but it never comes off as preachy.
The sexism fairy has slightly visited this book since my last read - Edward is a lot more proactive and decisive than Eleanor, he is going to grow up to be President, and she is not going to worry so much about her red hair and freckles - but other than that it was the same charming story I remember.A large part of the charm is the interior illustrations that just capture the spirit of the book but the story itself gives moral lessons, and an education in Louisa May Alcott, Emerson and Thoreau thrown in for free, without being preachy or talking down to children.
Could the two be linked?
I loved this book as a child and still like it as an old lady.
The situation of the family (genteel poverty) is background for a series of adventures in dreams shared by the young brother and sister.
I also like the interracial marriage.
That is very unusual for a kids' book of 1962, especially as no big deal is made of it.
I read this the first time in 1964 or so and the last time possibly two years ago.
I've read one or two of the sequels and don't think they live up to this book.
Recently I found the scrap of paper upon which Ms. Langton drew me a map so I could find the house in that inspired her! Unfortunately, when my friends and I went to Concord we found out the house is no longer there.
This is one of the best kids' books I've ever read--it's mysterious, funny, smart, touching, suspenseful, and thought-provoking.
I *might* have enjoyed this when I was child. But it left me flat now, and this is my second attempt. I guess I never felt like the magic was following any interesting rules, as it does in, say, Eager's series. And the casual sexism is downright painful... why are all the footprints left by great men? Why is Louisa assumed to be in need of a wedding? Etc.I do see my review on librarything ... not sure why I gave it four stars then... only two now, so reporting the average of three.
One day they notice the diamond shaped attic window and realized they’d never been up there so off they go.
Eddy and Eleanor move into the attic to try and solve the mystery and start to have shared dreams in which they see Ned and Nora.
I loved this book and never realized, aside from being an awesome story, it was about Transcendentalism.
I never knew there are more in the series so I will have to try and get copies of those.It made my list of top five all time favorite books.
The relationship between Eleanor and Edward, the children, as well as those between them and the rest of their family, are strongly drawn and moving.The book feels pretty dated in some ways, though, particularly when it comes to gender roles (it was written in 1962 but seems to be set in some earlier, unspecified time).
Eleanor is often reduced to caring only about her appearance and romance--one of the first things that we learn about her is that she likes a boy in her class named Benjamin Parks, who is barely even a character in the book, and she spends a lot of time worrying that no one will marry her because of her freckles.
This book is the tale of Edward and Eleanor Hall, two orphaned kids who live with their sweet, hard-working aunt and their scholarly-but-decidedly-quirky uncle.
About the time that their house is going to be taken away due to tax issues (gee, I guess the book is kind of current!), they stumble upon a mystery: apparently, two children lived in this house years back, but they disappeared.
It's a smart book that doesn't talk down to kids.
Several times, it reminded me of The Mysterious Benedict Society -- another book about (and appealing to) smart kids.
A book on American Transcendentalism for kids - this was how I was introduced to Diamond in the Window by my fiancee, whose mother lent me a cherished library copy to read through.
It is indeed a tale surrounding the hotbed of that movement in Concord, Mass., set a generation or more after Emerson, Thoreau and Jane Austen walked its paths and picked its berry bushes.
Langton writes a very tight and instructive mystery into the heart of the Transcendental movement with action both occurring inside and out of dreams for the child protagonists.
This is a difficult book to find, but happy hunting in procuring your copy to enjoy the transcendental journey.
This was my favorite book as a child in the 80s.
Even as a child I understood how rich it was in detail and subject, but until this read (more than 25 years later) I didn't realize the depth and breadth of its content.
I actively sought the book out on Amazon after searching for a few years.
Certainly it's not for every child, but for an awkward, nerdy kid who loved nothing more than a new book, it was magic.
As a kid, I had no idea that this was the first in a series, nor that its publication date was in the early 60s.

I had never heard of this book, but it was recommended by a friend that fondly remembers it as one of her all-time faves as a kid.
It is sort of a alternate-reality fantasy that mixes Transcendentalism (really!) with a good old-fashioned mystery about children that vanished within brother-and-sister Eddy and Eleanor's old house in Concord, Mass.
Because of the locale, there is plenty of name dropping (and even quoting!) of Thoreau, Louisa May Alcott, and Ralph Waldo Emerson, so there is a nice literary lesson disguised in adventure.
The dream/alternate reality sequences are some of the most imaginative that I've read in a long time, and I'm sure kids now will still find this absorbing.
Magic, family secrets and puzzles in verse are combined to create engaging adventures for a brother and sister team that want to save their family’s house from being repossessed by the bank. This is not like other magical adventure books- there is something so immediate here that the reader is drawn completely into the story. There are interesting references to historical figures of the Transcendalist movement that give it texture and depth. I love this remarkable book- and am sad that it has not really attained the classic status I think it should have.
This book is my all time favorite. It is the first book in the series of Hall Family Chronicles. The sequels in this series are great, but nothing compares to this stand out children's book. When I was growing up, this book helped me through a lot of decisions. I've probably read this book more than 20 times - I never, ever tired of it. I love all of Jane Langton's books, but Diamond in the Window should be a classic whether you are young or old.
One of my favourite books as a child, one that I reread and reread and now had the pleasure of reading to my children. Good characters, interesting background (town of Concord) and a wonderful treasure hunt plot with lots at stake. Just found out there's more in the series and planning to start book two soon.
A young adult novel, probably the first I read that hit me as a novel, one I read to my own kids when they were young. But be sure you get the version with Langton’s own drawings in them—before the Homer Kelly series.
I have read this book numerous times. I love the combination of family story, fantasy and philosophy, not to mention the literary & historical references. Reading it aloud to my children was great fun. My 9-year-old son's reaction: "Can we read the next one?"
Written in 1962, this book had so many references to Anchor Stones! The reason I picked it up! A great read. Recommended for children. I could see it as a movie. A cooler than Lego movie.
Read this book as a kid and LOVED it. My first foray into fantasy/mystery/paranormal. Still remember it so well, especially the wedding gown spun out of snowflakes.
I read this book as a child and have always remembered it because I loved it so much!
This was the first book I ever read that got me hooked on reading. I wanted my daughter to read it as well, but it was out of print so I ordered it used. As soon as it came I was swept right back up into the adventures of Edward and Eleanor - many fond memories and, being from Concord, Walden, Lexington area of Massachusetts, it was a joy to once again read the more intimate thoughts surrounding some of my literary heroes like Alcott, Thoreau, Emerson, and Hawthorne!
I first read this book as a child and loved it then.I love it now. It was my introduction to Transcendentalists and one of the reasons we visited Concord, MA, several years ago.Wonderful for kids, great for adults.
Apparently I loved it as a kid, but I don't remember it now - another I need to re-read.
As a children's book, it was very good.
For years I had been trying to recall the title to this book. All I could remember from my childhood were two children who had a time travel adventure in an old house, one a girl and the other a boy who spelled his name backward. So pleased to have found them again! As an adult I found the story to be as rich and remarkable as I remembered. I was delighted to learn that this is the first book of a series!Out of print and hard to find.
Main characters Edward and Eleanor become intrigued when they learn that two children named Ned and Nora disappeared from their home’s attic bedroom years ago, and they decide to sleep there themselves and investigate.
Though the mystery of the missing kids is intriguing, the way the story is told didn’t really build off of that interest.
The dreams are vivid and well-described, but somehow the structure of the story was too linear and predictable to keep me invested in the fate of the missing kids.Another thing that surprised me in this book is the lack of explanations for themes that recur in later books.
