https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/25571844-quick-curtain
Douglas was a master at convincing theatergoers that his next show would be a sensation.
Brandon Baker fell down, lifeless, on stage in front of a dazed audience.
Hilary Foster, the actor who fired the fatal shot seems to have committed suicide.In attendance opening night were Inspector Wilson of Scotland Yard and son, Derek, a journalist.
Inspector Wilson worked from home and did not follow police procedure.
The Wilson's banter was witty and humorous.
Lovers of witty, humorous investigation and vanishing suspects coupled with a theatrical setting will be delighted.Thank you Poisoned Pen Press and Net Galley for the opportunity to read and review "Quick Curtain".
As does Melville's use of Inspector Wilson of Scotland Yard and his journalist son (who plays both side-kick and devil's advocate to his father).
Wilson is prepared to call it murder followed by suicide in a fit of remorse, but there is no suicide note and there are a few other oddities as well--like the position of the bullet when it's dug out of the proscenium wall and the woman who shows up at the inquest and the funeral and who claims to have been Baker's wife.
The best part of the book is the relationship between Wilson and his son--making for a highly entertaining read overallFirst posted on my blog My Reader's Block.
As I began to read this one I wondered if I could continue since Alan Melville is taking on the detective story and the theatre world with this single novel.
I will admit to having to encourage myself to continue reading at first, but quite soon I found that I was enjoying the silliness.What saves this novel for me is the fact that there is actually a good mystery involved.
The Scotland Yard police inspector and his journalist son are in the audience so are right on the spot to begin investigating.
If Alan Melville ever wrote a serious detective story, I'll bet it was a pip.
Humor is so dependent on personal taste.
I understand why others would see this as witty and clever, but most of the time the humor irritated me.
I didn't think it succeeded as humor or as a detective story.
The plotting was just strange, with the professional detective and his son just manufacturing one theory after another, without much of any logic or work.I did like the theater setting and I'm a sucker for Golden Age mysteries, so it wasn't a waste of time.
I was just hoping for more.
I kept thinking of how much better it could have been.
Define “witty”...It's the opening night of the new show at the Grosvenor Theatre – Blue Music, produced by the great theatre impresario Douglas B Douglas and starring perennial juvenile lead and heart-throb Brandon Baker, a combination designed to guarantee box office success.
Had Melville written some other kind of theatre based froth, then it may have come off better, but a crime novel really requires at least some pretence at a proper plot and investigation or it becomes nonsensical – and not in a good way.
An odd detective story set in the theatre. The star of a musical comedy is shot dead onstage and inspector Watkins and his journalist son Derek investigate. The author tries very hard to be funny - much too hard. Apparently he was a theatre man himself, but the book conveys no affection for the theatre, or any really interesting details about theatrical life. The unrelentingly facetious tone becomes tiresome very quickly. Apparently this author only wrote one whodunnit, which is a mercy. The attempt to combine mystery with humour fails on both counts.
its quite awful... some of it is funny I grant you... I know what it is trying to do and that is make a little stab at all the mysteriousness in detecting and a tongue in cheek to all detective stories but... it doesn't even do that justice. The father and son thing doesn't work and it just feels flat and tired I don't think this should have seen the light of day. A bit disappointed really.
Thoroughly enjoyable vintage whodunnit. Loved the theatrical setting, the banter between the father and son detective team and the cynical, almost Wodehousian humour. Not as clever twists as a Christie but the setting and amusing style made up for that plenty!
Among the audience are our detectives, a father-and-son-duo from Scotland Yard and from the press.
"Quick Curtain" is full of humor that makes it a fun, leisure read.
The plot itself is far from an exceptional one but the author's wittiness and his unconventional style help to establish "Quick Curtain" an unique mystery read, something turns out to be extraordinary out from a plain, simple plot.
The cover arts of the British Library Crime Classic series are always something to-die-for, and this one is no exception.
The cover does capture the essence of such a witty and fine crime story.
Fast, fun read. The dry humor, nostalgia and theatre element were appealing to me, as was the relationship between the father/son crime solving duo. The unending cluelessness of the village dwellers was a little over the top but was well balanced by our masquerading sleuth. Maybe not to everyone’s taste but I quite enjoyed it!
It also draws back the curtain on the Scotland Yard investigation headed by Inspector Wilson ably and saucily assisted by his reporter son Derek Wilson.Despite a couple murders and an apparent suicide (murder?), everything is very droll.
There is no one exempt from his wit except for Inspector Wilson and son who use their wit to score off each other mercilessly.
There is a surprise ending that really turns things on their heads, though I was also very happy to get to the end of the book, too.
Few people escaped it.I also thought the banter between Inspector Wilson and Derek was off-putting.
On stage in front of the entire audience on opening night, an actor, instead of just pretending to get shot, is actually shot- dead.I'm not sure how I feel about Quick Curtain to be honest.
It was light-hearted, (you know, for a story that contains a murder), and there is some nice quirky banter.
I found it amusing in places with some interesting character observations.For me, what let it down was the ending.
It's a bit of a light-hearted adventure.
It's a nice casual read but ultimately a little let down by an ending that could have been managed better.
It is a comic crime novel and it actually works very well.
Often comedy just doesn't work when mixed with crime but the author does manage to keep up the humour right to the end.
Unfortunately this scene turns out to be rather more realistic than was intended by the producer or the actors concerned.
This duo proceed to investigate the crime in their own inimitable fashion with more than a few mistakes on the way.Realistic it isn't but it is well plotted with some very nice twists and turns and I found the humour very much to my taste and I laughed out loud at several descriptions and incidents.
The murder of an actor on stage is quickly followed by the death of another of the cast, but Inspector Wilson of Scotland Yard - plucked out of the audience to investigate - isn't satisfied that the case is as straightforward as it looks.
The book tries to be witty and generally succeeds, although occasionally seems to be trying a bit too hard.
There's scarcely a nod to actual police procedure, but then it's not trying to be a police procedural.
And I wasn't entirely satisfied with the ending, although it's definitely clever and well-plotted.
Bounced around alot. Found it hard to like the detective and his methods.
I hated it
Perhaps in my review, I've drawn too much of a comparison to Sherlock Holmes, this book is not remotely like a Sherlock Holmes story, except where it does poke a little fun at the genre.
I recently read Death of Anton by Melville and while I did not like it as much, it was a solid piece of classic detective fiction.I received a copy of this book from NetGalley and Poisoned Pen Press in exchange for a fair review.If you are looking for a classic whodunit, this may or may not be it.
But if you enjoy Golden Age detective fiction with witty humor and a big twist, I think you will enjoy this book.
There's a very complicated mathematical equation - involving variables such as your fondness for all things British Library, your tolerance for English humor, your insistence on realism in mysteries, your general susceptibility to nostalgia, and your level of exposure to the theater - which you can use to precisely calculate your response to Alan Melville's Quick Curtain.
After recently reading The Death of Anton by the same author I wasn't surprized by the humourous style of crime fiction found in this novel.
Most of the other characters too seem to be from the same comedian club as the Wilsons - making this novel more of a slapstick humour book than a detective novel so much so by the later third I did find it somewhat tiresome - as the plot became secondary to the humour.
However it was a welcome change to read a detective novel with humour that was actually funny and worked reasonable well with a murder plot - unlike his contemporary J.
Originally published on my blog: Nonstop Reader. Quick Curtain  is another 'forgotten' gem, re-formatted and released by Poisoned Pen press in the British Library Crime Classics series with a release date 5th December, 2017. It was written by Alan Melville and originally published in 1934. There's a lighthearted element to the humor (for which the author was taken to task by Dorothy Sayers). I enjoy so many of the classic golden age mystery writers and find the interwar stories especially engagi
It was written by Alan Melville and originally published in 1934.
They seem to genuinely like one another and their banter adds a lot to the dialogue.There is a fair bit of authorial intrusion (the author speaking directly to the reader), which may annoy some readers, but I found it teasing and quite fun.
In fact, I've enjoyed all the books I've read in the Crime Classics collection.Four and a half stars.
Lighthearted, witty, and entertaining.Disclosure: I received an ARC at no cost from the author/publisher for review purposes.
This was was one of the most intelligently funny crime novels I've read in so long.
When Derek goes 'undercover' as a hiker/bicyclist having no idea how to pose as one or in fact just how far he's going to have to ride, I laughed both at his stupidity and enthusiasm.
It's a cool trick, and I don't want to spoil it, let's just say I had to go back a few pages when I was done because the actual bad guy(s) were buried in all of the theatricality.
Douglas's new musical gets shot for real during a supposedly fake shooting scene in front of the opening night's audience, Scotland Yard Inspector Wilson is in the house and immediately on the case.
It looks like an open and shut case, but after the funeral and inquest, several people come to Inspector Wilson with doubts and further information.
Melville writes a cunning mystery that will keep readers guessing and satisfy the sleuthing itch, but he's not above taking some little pokes of fun at the genre (and musical theater) all along the way.
Another story told in an old fashioned style, but one that was rather interesting though a bit quirky at times!Centred around a successful director and a particular set of actors with the famous director Douglas B.
Inspector Wilson who was present whilst the murder took place, takes immediate charge of the investigation and along with his son who is a journalist tackle the whys and wherefores to get to the bottom of this murder.
The suspicion now moves to others in the play and moves far from London to a smaller village where another murder takes place.
Alan Melville did not spend much of his life writing mysteries, but those he did are clever and fun - albeit a not particularly accurate representation of police procedure.
What you see is what you get - almost.In Quick Curtain, the star of a dazzling music extravaganza is murdered onstage.
Or is there a more complex conspiracy behind the surprising murder?
Inspector Wilson and his son Derek (a young journalist who readily joins the investigation) tackle the case, but will their solution be the right one?Quick Curtain has many humorous scenes, but it is understated compared to more modern comic mysteries.
"Quick Curtain" is a humorous mystery set in England and was originally published in 1934.
It's a clue-based mystery, but it's also a spoof on "clever detective" murder mysteries.
I was a little surprised at the assumptions they made, though I grant that "clever detectives" do tend to make flashy assumptions.
I guess I felt a little tricked, thinking it was a real mystery and not learning it was a full-fledged spoof until the end.
Overall, I'd recommend this humorous mystery.I received an ebook review copy of this book from the publisher through NetGalley.
This was a lot of fun.
It is described as a "witty, satirical novel" and lives up to the billing.
It pokes fun at all aspects of musical comedies in the theater in Britain in the early 1930s but it is easy to recognize the same type characters, behaviors and enthusiasms in the film, music or internet media so the book is not hopelessly out-of-date.
Of course, there are elements that date the novel such as using telegrams but if compared to texting it is understandable even by millennials and younger readers.
A very good time - quick-witted and nimble, with enough (deeply time-period specific) humor to keep the just OK mystery bustling along.
The sleuths here are a father with his son as a sidekick, and both intelligent and invested in the solving of the crime, which is a nice change from the bland, Watson cut-outs that teem around most detectives in other mysteries of the era.
The deaths here are dealt with especially swiftly, and no one involved seems to care AT ALL (readers included) about the second act of violence, which is a plus or minus depending on how much you care about nuts and bolts detecting in your Golden Age novel.I received an ecopy from the publishers and NetGalley in exchange for an honest review.
"He did not like the look on Miss Turner’s face at all.
Nor did he like the peculiar dark mark on the stage, just where Mr. Baker had fallen.
Mr. Douglas gave another twist to the swivel of his opera-glasses to bring them exactly into focus.
He fixed them again on the dark mark.
It was blood."And so murder has been committed on stage, on opening night, and there just happens to be an Inspector in the audience, ready to investigate.The writing is engaging; the characters slightly over exaggerated; the humour dry and satirical.
During a production of "Blue Music," Brandon Baker joins the ranks of entertainers who have literally died on stage, but fortunately Melville's detective duo is on hand to catch the culprit. Dorothy Sayers apparently criticised Melville for seeing "all this detective business as a huge joke," but I would prefer to praise him for writing a sustainedly witty whodunnit. This is a thoroughly entertaining mystery, especially thanks to Melville's brilliant characterisations, sharp writing and Wilson-Wilson conversations. And to end it all, there's a wonderfully unsettling ending after Insp Wilson presents the final resolution.
This is another great novel from The British Library Crime Classics stable.Alan Melville wrote a great story set in the Theatre this time.The ubiquitous bodies, suspects, infighting among the cast and management and red herrings galore make this a very witty story to relish during the long winter evenings, with a little something in a glass!Very highly recommended. I was given a digital copy of this great book by the publisher Poisoned Pen Press via Netgalley in return for an honest unbiased review.
