https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1354904.Christmas_at_Cold_Comfort_Farm
However that does not go for all the stories.In the collection you gain a real sense of a woman who understood the missed opportunities for love and happiness that comes about as a result of people failing to speak or communicate clearly.
There are other examples of the same sadness and though very few stories end sadly or miserably 'The walled garden', 'A charming man' and 'sisters' all speak in different ways of expectation and loss, of people reaching out in love or decency and being rebutted.
Gibbons is like an edgier L. M. Montgomery. Her characters are terribly concerned with manners and propriety and what the neighbors think.Some of these stories were quite sweet and amusing, but there's nothing here that's going to stick in my memory a month after closing the book.
What I discovered were stories that explored the intricacies of life in England as it moved from the Edwardian Age into the Modern Era. Gibbons explores deep themes - the meaning of life, the role of women, relationships versus isolation in her stories.
It is a cliché to describe stories in a collection such as this as gems, but each of these stories truly is.
He compliments Gibbons but reserves higher praise for her contemporary Barbara Pym. I don't think a comparison is needed or even fair.
Gibbons work in this collection shows she stands the test of time, and richly deserves a contemporary readership.
Rating clarification: 3.5 stars.This is a lovely volume of short stories by the author of the classic comic novel Cold Comfort Farm.
But be warned, they differ in style to that popular novel, all excepting the titular story, Christmas at Cold Comfort Farm, of course.
While they are outdated in many respects, they are a wonderful insight into the lives of people of a certain class, in a certain place, at a certain time, and some themes touched on in these stories will definitely resonate with the modern reader.
I don't know whether I should rejoice that they've successfully evaded the smug, cruel and immoral Smart Set or mourn that they've married into the slow, uninteresting or deeply flawed world of convention.
Let me provide and example, which won't ruin the whole book for you (wee bit of spoiler):In "The Walled Garden," the sensible husband says, when his wife doesn't put her old friends ahead of her young family, "You needn't feel bad about it.
You can't live like a married person and a bachelor as well.
A marriage has got to have a wall round it, like the garden.
I would like to read a novel in which this short story is a first chapter.
**** for "The Hoofer and the Lady" - A sweet and true study of a first love.
It is, I think of human nature but it isn't good idea for a short story, in my opinion.
**** for "The Friend of Man" - Next charming love story.
**** for "A Young Man in Rags" - Another enchanting love story.15.
*** for "Cake" - Story with something to tell about society and social changes and how to make own way in this all.16.
Some, like "The Little Christmas Tree" or "The Hoofer and the Lady," are quite sweet; people try to do the right thing and are gently, unobtrusively rewarded for it by making connections with other people who understand and appreciate them.
I also quite enjoyed "The Murder Mark," an unconventional murder mystery, and the unrepentantly unserious characters in "Poor, Poor Black Sheep." To my surprise, I quite loathed the story I originally checked this book out for: "Christmas at Cold Comfort Farm" isn't funny, it's just a bundle of terrible people being terrible at each other, with a saccharine bit between Elfin and Dick Hawk-Monitor tacked on at the end.
I think I was supposed to laugh at how awful everyone was, but they just seemed sad and poor.
Reading Stella Gibbons is like taking a lovely warm bath - an inherently comforting experience.
Obviously the plum in the pudding is her revisiting of the eponymous Cold Comfort Farm on Christmas Day a little before Flora Post makes their aquaintance.
Ada Doom, the matriarch of the clan, commands her descendants to - "Be Gay, Spawn!" - a line which I have adopted as my own and whip out at any opportunity with my own ungrateful children.
There is a little too much vintage cath kidston-y femininity for my liking on display but there is still vituperative, grumbling Ada Doom brandishing her stick in a fetid farmhouse kitchen to warm your cockles.
Definitely a good Christmas read.
I rather LIKE dated, period stories.After a reading a couple of these, however, one has pretty much met the characters-- or character types-- that will appear in the next story one reads, and the next. These people are engaging enough, and the atmosphere is pleasant. The trick would be to read them with a nice long time-for-forgetting in between. Ah, perhaps the title is a reader's clue: slip into a dressing gown, obtain a cup or tea (or a gin fizz) and read one of these tales every Christmas.
I love the line "'The turkey gave out..."
I have been sent several short story collections over the past few years and none have I enjoyed as much as this.There is The Little Christmas Tree where the single woman suddenly gains a family on Christmas Day, To Love And To Cherish where an embittered wife delights in her preparations to leave her husband until she realises over the course of the day that she is unqualified to live alone and rushes to undo her decision, Poor, Poor Black Sheep where a man returning from abroad finds himself out of place back at home – each presents a character at the point of a dilemma and each finishes with a tightly sewn together conclusion.
Overall I so enjoyed these old fashioned stories, and it has made me want to read more Stella Gibbons.
Stella Gibbons' stories are obviously set in a world that no longer exists, they are about bored housewives, aging Bright Young Things, "modern" career women, spinsters in country villages and librarians.
In his introduction to the new Vintage edition, Alexander McCall Smith writes about the short story as an art form.
His description of the modern short story made me smile - and nod in agreement.
These short stories come from a different time.
The modern short story are just the kind I usually hate.
All of the other stories, including "The Little Christmas Tree," are romances - not so much high romance, or fantasy romance, but a more realistic kind of "settling" romance in which a rather ordinary heroine matches up to someone equally prosaic.
A few of the stories are a bit unsettling, particularly "Golden Vanity" and "More Than Kind," but mostly Gibbons keeps the tone light.
There are traces of the Gibbons wit in this collection, but it is a stretch to describe it as humorous.
A career, if you're lucky, writing, but those melancholy shelves tell the likely truth: most writers are forgotten as completely as most books.So, in that respect, Stella Gibbons is luckier than most of us.
Cold Comfort Farm, possibly the funniest book I've ever read, means that she stays in print and thus, in literary terms, alive.
And, being alive, publishers have cast through her back catalogue and hung a collection of short stories on Gibbons' brief return visit to the Starkadders' farm.It's the other stories that impress here, though.
I'm pretty sure that these stories were not written with the intention of forming a coherent book, but were just collected together after they had appeared individually in other books.
They are beautifully written, and Gibbons' turn of phrase was beautiful and unusual in places.
I just wish she'd branched out a little from that wry, knowing critique of woman's place in the world in the inter-war years.One thing I really enjoyed was her building of suspense.
Even when you've pretty much worked out what's coming, you are still keen to read on.The weakest stories were the last two, which were frankly bizarre and could have been left out.
The story I enoyed most: 'More than kind'; but my favourtiote quotes comes from 'The friend of man':'She felt that if she had to spend another year of interesting, congenial work during the days, and sensitive, cultured, intelligent talk in the evenings, she would go mad or die.' (p.
211)Like too many views, this one over Buckinghamshire consisted chiefly of being able to see a long way.
One knew one was high up; one thought "Must be a wonderful view on a fine day," and that was all there was to it.' (p.
Despite a little initial disappointment that the book contains only two Christmas-themed stories, that feeling was ameliorated by the quality of the writing.Mainly concerned with the doings of middle- to upper-class folks of the inter-war years, if there is a connecting motif between the stories it would seem to be that of redemption, perhaps making an Easter marketing more appropriate (though probably less lucrative).These are quiet stories about people trying to find meaning in a world which seems fragile and shallow.
More often than not they succeed, but Gibbons deftly avoids over-sentimentality, leaving the reader with the feeling that things actually might get better.
(view spoiler)[Bettie's Books (hide spoiler)]
Really loved this collection of short stories. Mad, clever and funny - need to read more Stella Gibbons
Almost all of Dodie Smith is out of print stateside, unless you really want to read 101 Dalmatians, and you'd think by her shelves at bookstores and libraries that Daphne Du Maurier only wrote two books, Rebecca and Jamaica Inn. Usually Amazon UK can rectify these problems, but not always.
but quite some time later on abe books I finally found a reasonably priced copy of Conference at Cold Comfort Farm, and at least that book was now accounted for.
All this leads to the joyous day when Penguin Books decided to re-release Christmas at Cold Comfort Farm.It was around the time of this announcement that I first realized that it was not a full book but a collection of short stories.
Very disappointing.

I got a copy of this short story anthology just to read it's title selection "Christmas At Cold Comfort Farm" set (pre Flora Poste) at Cold Comfort.
There is some pretty blatant classism (one spinster implied as being married off to a man (not her social equal) in order to raise his rowdy motherless children and due to her white and patrician hands.
They are disturbingly uncomfortable to read now.All in all, I recommend this book for the title story.
Moreover, it's not as if the women in these stories are falling in love at first sight with noble and interesting men; they are almost all settling resignedly for the very last turkey in the shop, no matter how unappealing that may be, and the overall impression is not only stifling but also deeply depressing.Stella Gibbons wrote one delightful, sparklingly funny book that has withstood the test of time.
'Christmas as Cold Comfort Farm' will remind you that Christmas  is  a magical time of year and that romance can blossom in the least likely of places.
Only one of those related to Cold Comfort Farm.
Secondly, only two of the sixteen stories relate to Christmas; the other fourteen are the worst kind of shallow romances, that appear to have first been published in various magazines.Cold Comfort Farm is one of my most beloved books, but not even a story with the Starkadders could save this anthology for me.
Christmas at Cold Comfort Farm - ★★3.
A Charming Man- ★9.
Stella Gibbon's Cold Comfort Farm (CCF) is among my favorite books, so I had high hopes for this collection of short stories, finally available in the US and -- bonus!
Rather, most of the stories were about youngish women in the 1940s disenchanted with the "smart set" of London and longing to settle in the country and/or start a family.
It's interesting to think that young intellectuals of modern times (the current "smart set") haven't changed much in their fast-and-loose lifestyles, but that the main character's morality and longings for marriage and children feel dated.
Is it because modern women are less comfortable expressing these longings?
I thoroughly enjoyed Christmas at Cold Comfort Farm by Stella Gibbons.
I love her book Cold Comfort Farm (and the movie based on it) so I had to check this out when I saw it on the library shelf.
One minor caution - there is only one story about the family from the Cold Comfort Farm, and it's one of the least impressive in the collection.
The collection was first published in 1940, and the stories appeared in a number of magazines.
I highly recommend Christmas at Cold Comfort Farm to anyone who likes good stories about everyday people going about their everyday lives.
Because these stories were written around eighty-five years ago, and because they appeared in publications like The Lady, Good Housekeeping and the Evening Standard, the attitudes in some of them are dated and things which were shocking like single mothers no longer are.
There is a lovely story in which a spinster takes in a single mother and eventually confesses to having had unwedded *cough* with a man herself.
This was a very sweet story about acceptance and also about the attitudes of a village.
The title of this collection of short stories is a little misleading.
It would be easy to suppose that these are stories entirely related to Gibbons' most famous creation, Cold Comfort Farm.
The other stories are generally themed around unassuming women who find true love and conventional happiness at the conclusion.
Perhaps the most successful story, Sisters, examines the hypocrisy surrounding the issue of single mothers at a time (around the 1940s) when such a situation was morally unacceptable.
While these stories are entirely readable, and enjoyable on a shallow level, they do not give the expected warm Christmassy glow.
Laced with wry authorial asides, and careful, subtle wit, Gibbons' stories allow us to glimpse the make-do climate of England in the 1930's.
The stories, if a little obvious at times, are interesting and compelling period pieces in their own right, and for my part, the collection certainly doesn't need to be touted as some kind of continuation of Cold Comfort Farm, especially since it isn't.
The title story, "Christmas at Cold Comfort farm' is out of keeping with the themes found in the remainder of the compilation, which would be infinitely more cohesive without it.
It's not Cold Comfort Farm, and that's fine.
