https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/449008.Paradise_Lost_and_Other_Poems
Many readers accept Milton's view of events as accurate and that it was wholly derived from the Bible, when in fact, it is largely an original work.Under Constantine, Hell and the Devil were re-conceptualized.
It is a great book of questions, and a book which demands the reader think and try to understand.We are supposed to sympathize with the Devil because he is heroic and dangerous, but we also know he is the Devil.
Great poems, written in the 17th century that still seem to reflect today's world.
Let me think on this one. *goes back to the drawing board*
A good edition and well annotated. This is one of the foundations of both English literature and the modern English language. If read in context of British culture and politics of the time, one can gain some deep insight into the transition of England from a Catholic medieval society into a Protestant enlightenment one. Paradise Lost is a work by yet another dead white guy that you should none the less be required to read.
Paradise Lost may have its stakes as the greatest poem written in the English language, but it pales in comparison to Virgil, Homer and Dante. Milton's attempt to emulate the elevated Latin and Greek style (syntactically) only makes his verse sound pompous and arrogant. The only character that entices the dormant imagination is the Byronic Satan who exudes charisma and rebellious charm.
Although I'm not into spirituality, the writing is absolutely elegant and superb. One of the strongest products of literature I've ever seen. Every line, despite being only a handful of words, evokes such rich and deep imagery I need to force myself to slow down so I can enjoy the deep immersion.
I was persuing this last winter, and Paradise Lost remains as mind-expanding as ever, action packed, with possibly the richest prose in the English language.
In 'A Preface to Paradise Lost', C.S. Lewis suggests reading 'Paradise Lost' as if it were true.
He used this illustration, "Instead of stripping the knight of his armour you can try to put his armour on yourself...You must, so far as in you lies, become an Achaean chief while reading Homer, a medieval knight while reading Malory, and an eighteenth century Londoner while reading Johnson."  I think this is good advice.
If, dear reader, you are not used to reading old books—specifically, epics—I suggest reading 'A Preface to Paradise Lost' before reading Milton's Epic.
It will help you cross the "gulf between the ages" and experience the story as the author intended.
I enjoyed this story immensely.
I'll probably read it several times over.
Using the poetic writing style of English Heroic Verse (without rhyme), Milton will attempt to characterize God (!!!), make Satan, the epitome of evil, his epic hero, tell the story of a war in Heaven, describe the desolation and horror of Hell and the perfection and beauty of Heaven, and create complex characters out of the Biblical classics.
This may seem an impossible task, and Milton certainly ends up contradicting himself on multiple occasions, but overall Paradise Lost ends up being just what Milton envisioned; a classic (and hard to read) epic poem about the ways of God and the corruption of mankind.The Characters: By trying to characterize some of the most recognized figures in all of recent history, Milton has set himself up to disappoint at least some.
Seeking nothing less than to justify the ways of God to man, Milton recounts in verse the rebellion of Satan and his angels, their subsequent expulsion from heaven (courtesy of the Son of God), and Satan's vengeance against God in the form of his moral poisoning of God's newest and most favored creation - mankind.
Was this poem an "apology" of sorts to the restored monarchy of England; a way of demonstrating how easy it is for well-meaning people to get caught up in causes which seem noble, but are in practice ruinous?
Adam essentially has to convince her that although men are not as easy on the eyes as women, God nonetheless made the two of them to be together.
The words seem to fit, giving everything a sort of primal power that's fitting to a poem that seeks to 'justify the ways of God to men,' and to change any of it, would somehow diminish it.This might be hero worship, because I frankly and freely admit to be a slobbering Milton fanboy.
It's an amazing work, with full, complete characterizations, beautifully crafted dialogue, and moments of transcendent literary beauty where all that you can do is wonder at Milton's mastery of his language.It really amazes me that this hasn't been made into a movie, but knowing everything that would be cut out to make it work, it makes me glad that it hasn't.
The works of Milton are one of those things I had always wanted to read yet never seemed to get around to.
There is nothing meaningful I can add in this regard, except to recommend the University of South Carolina’s Milton page, which does include some in-depth information as well as some gorgeous images about the poet and his era: http://library.sc.edu/spcoll/britlit/...I greatly enjoyed this book.
As with most books of a literary nature, recognizing some of the allusions makes me wonder how many I am missing, although the glossed version rectifies this fear somewhat.
Anyone interested in poetry or important English or world literature should read this book.
Paradise Lost was one of the most amazing books I've ever read!
I felt that God was a little too...aloof?
It was interesting that God and Jesus were two seperate beings.
I liked the fact that Satan, Death, and Sin were family members.
It was also cool that after Adam and Eve ate the fruit, Sin and Death built a bridge from Hell to Earth.
I thought it symbolized sin and death entering the world rather well.
Adam was too arrogant and stupid, while Eve was self loathing.
Eve was almost worshipful of Adam.
Again, it was an amazing book!
Satan I get you. You feel you were treated unfairly. But instead of communicating those feelings to the group, you went ahead and started a war, got yourself kicked out of heaven, disfigured and now your stuck in hell.Forever!So the big G decided to have a few pets (Adam, Eve etc.) No big deal! You had a good thing going. But NOooo! you had to go get all jealous and outspoken. Now what? War? Really? Do you really think you have a chance... in hell?  *Authors note: LMAO :)Nope, you know you don't.
This poem has a reassuring, dreammlike meter and beautiful imagery. I'm pondering how Adam and Eve both wanted to know God, but took different approaches: Adam wanted to know God through philosophical or worshipful methods, while Eve took the shortcut of eating from the Tree of Knowledge. Where's the sin, Eve asked?
This book has an interesting perspective on the devil. There is a line in there that I thought was particularly masterful:"The mind is its own place, and in itselfCan make a Heav'n of Hell, a Hell of Heav'n."I haven't got the hang of the rhyme yet, but the words are majestic and broad (albeit a little difficult to decipher in its entirety). I'm looking forward to finishing it.
Turly an epic, that's for sure. Milton's language is poetry at its best--sweeping, dramatic, and fully of beauty and substance. I'm not a religious person, but I can say that I've been to sunday school and mass, and this book was a much more entertaining way to read about god.
A few months ago I was taking the funicular in downtown El Lay and saw the sign that called it "Angel's Flight," but I read it wrong, thinking "Angels Fight." I thought, what a cool idea for a story!Then I remembered Paradise Lost. Never mind!
While his use of language and creating an interesting story can be looked upon with praise, his portrayal of Eve is nothing short of appalling. I realize it would be impossible for someone not in the 20th century to portray 20th century ideals, but still. It's appalling.
I am only part way through, but just the descriptions of the generation of Sin and Death are worth reading the book. The language that Milton uses is beautifully precise, although it does not always create beautiful pictures.
Paradise lost is an astounding work, and if true that he wrote it while blind from pure divine inspiration- well it just speaks to the power in his words.
To be fair, I would have enjoyed this more if it weren't taught to me by a drab, sickly old man who smelled of cheap pipe tobacco and puncutated every sentence with a chest-rattling hack.
Such a sympathetic main character.
Fantastical. Audacious. Milton linked his piety with his imagination to great success...
821.4
2 copies.
A book worth rereading frequently. Its interesting to ponder how the depiction of the prince of darkness by a deeply religious man reads like a modern hero. This Satan has balls, a ethics.
Epic.
Really Horrible..........
It's a hard read but once you learn the language...the book is freakin' hilarious and moving.
