https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/544424.Leaving_Paradise
Book: Her and the guy aren't getting along...obviously this means they are MEANT FOR EACHOTHERBook: Insert awesome situations that make you wish you had this lifeBook: *Spend several moments sniffling over your sad, lonely life*Book: BREAK UP/CRYING IN THE RAIN SCENE Book: Stop listening to Taylor Swift on repeat and watch as they mope for daysBook: Back together again!
*throws confetti*Book: But hang on...Book: Wait-Book: And she's going to tell him she- OH WAIT HE'S LEAVING, sike!Book: ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS (where the author will proceed to shower you with the number of dogs they have, a bunch of adjectives describing their editing staff and the name of their favourite chocolate brand).Dear authors - READERS HATE CLIFFHANGERS!I mean, have you ever met one reader that THANKED you for giving them a cliffhanger?!
Yes. Not the real, red-skinned taters mashed potatoes, we're talking good old boxed taters.
It seemed to take forever for Maggie and Caleb to see each other again, but once they did, it was like instant love....which just didn't settle well with me.
Caleb's POV sounded suspiciously feminine and that made his macho persona a bit cheesy.
I can see why a lot of teen girls love this, however.
It's just that, when you get to be even my age (which is only 30), these particular issues seem almost unrealistically juvenile.
Good for the teen set.
Anyone over the age of 19 or 20, however, might find it a bit too grating.
Her father has left, she lost not only her circle of friends but her best friend, can no longer play tennis, and her time away from school has left her feeling isolated and alone...like a freak.Caleb Becker, Maggie’s neighbour, ex-best friend’s brother, and Maggie’s secret crush since her childhood, was convicted of Maggie’s hit-and-run and has spent the past year in juvenile detention.
"It's hard keeping everything the same when the same things look and feel so different." What both Maggie and Caleb want is just to leave Paradise.Yet, being neighbours, as well as other chance encounters, forces them to confront their grief and anger since that tragic night, and they end up finding love and solace in each other.
I think this author has some talent and I liked the shifting POVs. The story actually seemed vaguely familiar to me but I liked the concept behind it.
However, a few things about this book really rubbed me the wrong way.1) I think that Maggie's reactions are totally unrealistic.
I think it was kind of a cop out and Caleb's behavior didn't really reflect that the twist ever happened.
I would have expected a totally different attitude after finding out the "twist." Something about it didn't sit right.3) The cliffhanger ending.
She doesn't choose to sugarcoat their more amorous feelings or leave out curse words to make her novels more "teen friendly." I love that because, for me, it's better to be realistic than to make prudes happy.The characters.
They were good, certainly better than a lot of characters I've read about, but not as good as with her other novels.Which brings me to the reason for my rating:The pacing.
Because, all in all, it was a very enjoyable read do to the writing, and the plot was very unique and refreshing.Bottom line, read it if you're a fan of Elkeles' writing.RATING: 2.5 stars.
3/5 StarsTwo teenagers lives are drastically changed after one fateful night when Caleb hits Maggie while drink driving, leaving her for dead.
Maggie and Caleb want nothing to do with each other but fate has other ideas.I had high expectations when it came to this book based on all the reviews I read and was only left disappointed.
The book had a great plot but I didn't like the way it was written, felt very rushed and unrealistic.
I liked them but was very easily annoyed with them.
This book was okay and overall I did enjoy it but could have been much better.
★★★★★★☆☆☆☆[6/10]Dear Caleb Becker,⏩While reading:  ⏩At the end:  ⏩Now:  Phew, kids! Sequel? No thanks!!
Opening Line: "I'd been waiting a year for this moment"4.5~ I don’t generally read much YA stuff but Caleb and Maggie’s forbidden coming of age romance got to me and I found myself quite wrapped up in all their teenaged angst.
Throw in some majorly screwed up family members, a big secret and super cool old lady and you’ve got yourselves a great story.Told with alternating POV’s for each chapter, this was a fast read and I enjoyed getting into both Maggie and Caleb’s heads, seeing what each of them thought of the same situation.
Definitely one of the best YA love stories that I have ever read XD
THIS BOOK WAS SO FREAKING AMAZING!I loved every second of Leaving Paradise.
I need to find the second book as soon as possible because I NEED and WANT more!Now I'm not going to indulge in spoilers or any of that crap because you all need to drop whatever you are doing and go read this book.
Unless you are in the middle of REALLY good book then proceed with reading and get this book after you're done.
I want people to cry while reading this book because I definitely had some tears falling.
At the end of the book.
I NEED THE SECOND BOOK RIGHT NOW!
And while I have read a few books that have been really good, nothing had been better than Perfect Chemistry.
When Caleb is finally released, he and Maggie both try to move on with their lives but it’s hard when fate seems to have other plans for them……leaving them to both fighting their attraction for one another.
While reading it, I realised that we were slowly starting to find out how both, Caleb and Maggie felt about that fateful night.
With the story alternating from different point of views, you really get inside these characters head and really see them for who they really are.
Again, this is one of those books that leave me with a 'why didn't I read this sooner?' feeling.I kept seeing this pop up on my flist and I enjoyed it a lot.
Usually, when I read about female characters, my thoughts go from 'why can't I be more like her' to 'for the love of god, please somebody, slap her!' but this time I recognized something of myself in Maggie.The part where Caleb makes her play tennis again, and she secretly loves it but doesn't want to admit it, that's exactly how I am.
Trying (new) things, getting over myself and my fears...
When the two are forced together again after that one fateful night, how will they deal with the guilt and anxiety of trusting the person who's ruined ruined them forever?Leaving Paradise possesses an interesting premise, but Elkeles didn't take the story to its highest potential.
Caleb and Maggie were good characters, yet they lacked the emotional complexity to make their struggles entirely believable.The pacing of the plot also left something to be desired - it seemed rushed and too many things fell into place at exactly the right moment.
We all have a book that the blurb is so good you wanna just make love to it but when you read the actual story, you were disgusted to find out it has herpes.Yep.Let me start why I decided to read this book.♣The blurb : I was hooked with it.
Count me in!♣My cursed curiosity Now why I hated this book.♣Inconsistent story line Too much.
Most of the time, I was like "huh?", "say what?", "WTF", "Did I lose a chapter of this book?"♣My on and off fondness of the characters:♣The supposed to be big deal secret which is not so shocking at all.
Really.♣The way the author writes: No point in pulling punches.
The author writes like she's in middle-school.♣The fucking ending.♣All in all:
Such a great book.
Ok it's about a girl and guy.
For the past year the guy, Caleb Becker, has been in Juvinille detention for hitting a girl with his car while also being drunk.
On the other side of the story, Maggie Armstrong, the girl Caleb hit with his car, has been in physical therapy for the past year.
Story's very real, raw, great emotions.
I could hardly keep this book down.
PLEASE READ IT!!!Oh, yeah...definetley a teen book.
Language (BAD) and *interesting* scenes between girls and guys.
Beyond that this book is de best!
Lots of lessons to be learned in this book.
I liked the alternating points-of-view between Maggie and Caleb.
People just made fun of her and didn't understand the physical pain Maggie was suffering from was almost more than she could bear.
I enjoyed the connection that Caleb and Maggie found with one another and thought their relationship was very sweet.
The time they spent with her was some of the best in the book.
The book had the potential to wrap up and go no further, but it seems that Caleb and Maggie’s story was not meant to come to a conclusion just yet.
Maggies is best friends with Leah, Caleb's twin sister....until the night that changed everything.
Eventually, Maggie and Caleb come face to face after a year and as awkward and ridiculous as it is, they find that they are the only people who understand what really happend and what it's like to be a popular turned outsider/ They tried to avoid each other, but their attraction and chemistry is too intense to ignore......can they fight it or will it destroy them forever?OKAY, so sorry that was quite long....I couldn't stop the words from flowing right out of me.
I really enjoyed the format of the book and how the POV alternates between the two main characters.The author did a great job of developing both Caleb and Maggie’s character that you immediately come to care for both of them regardless of their opposing circumstance.
Lately, I’ve been boo’ing sequels, but reading Leaving Paradise has made me an instant fan of Simone Elkeles, so I look forward to book two in this series.About the story… Maggie Armstrong is a senior in high school returning after a year in the hospital and subsequent physical therapy as a result of being hit by a car that left her scarred and damaged both physically and emotionally.
It has been two or 3 years since I've read anything by Simone Elkeles. I still remember reading  Perfect Chemistry  trilogy, which I absolutely love. I'm so glad that I've read another novel of hers, giving me this jittery and sad feeling. If you haven't read that trilogy, GO READ IT. Especially, if you love Pushing the Limits by Katie McGarry.  What happens when the person who damaged you for life... becomes the person you trust the most?  Leaving Paradise is an emotional roller coaster read. T
trilogy, which I absolutely love.
I'm so glad that I've read another novel of hers, giving me this jittery and sad feeling.
What happens when the person who damaged you for life...
There are moments of sadness, joy and love.
This book has an alternating point of view between Caleb Becker and Maggie Armstrong.
I love how the story is elaborated so that we get to know more about their life and struggles.Caleb spent his past year in prison/juvenile detention because of being drunk and hit his neighbor, Maggie Armstrong which changed both their lives and relationships with other people.
throughout the story,there are character developments.
I hope there is some reconnecting in book #2.
Maggie, at first got under my skin.
The way she was handling the accident was whiney and childish...
Probably the same way, so it was realistic.
But, since we got to read inside Caleb's head it made me root for him.
The way he is taking the blame for Leah just blows my mind.
I am very glad that in the end atleast Leah and Maggie are working out their problems instead of running away.
if you liked her other books, I believe you will be into this one as well.
Probably not.Let's get the ugly stuff out of the way first: I was bored, I didn't connect with the characters and the writing felt stiff and unconvincing.
I kept reading till the end because I wanted some kind of satisfaction about Maggie and Caleb's relationship.
(view spoiler)[The "Let's go get pie" thing seemed so weird to me.
(hide spoiler)]I also liked the premise.
It's one of those books that I sort of liked while I was reading it but, ultimately, it's forgettable.
One of those books that ends with me thinking, "Well, at least that's another book read for my Goodreads challenge..."
No me ha gustado nada la historia de Maggie y Caleb.
Estos dos libros han sido una decepción absoluta, una de las peores historias de amor que he leído.
Me ha gustado única y exclusivamente como escribe Simone pero la trama de la bilogía y sus protagonistas no me han gustado nada, nada y nada.
No suelo decir esto pero estos dos libros los habría echado a la hoguera, y a sus protagonistas también.
Paradise y Retorno a Paradise es de lo peor que he leído.
Simone escribe muy, muy bien, pero esa trama y esos personajes son ruinosos.MI RESEÑA COMPLETA DE AMBOS LIBROS AQUÍ:http://mayuamoraprimeravista.blogspot...
Esta historia me ha llegado al corazón por su crudeza, la historia de superación que tiene y la fortaleza de ambos personajes. Es de estos libros que te hacen pensar a pesar de los tópicos que tiene y un poco de insta - love que no me ha terminado de convencer. Sin embargo el ritmo es adictivo y se lee en un suspiro.
Dear cliff hangerI hate you and wish I never met youLove Angry ReaderThis story was ok.. It started slow.. Kiiiiiinda cute.. Then rushed the end.. And left you hanging in a cliff.. No closure.. some cliff hangers I get even tho they make me angry... But this one jus made me angry..
I didn't hate this book, and the 1 star rating seems a bit harsh even for me, but so many things about this story bothered the hell out of me that I honestly cannot make myself click on that second star.So the story is about this boy, Caleb, who hit his next door neighbor, Maggie, with a car while drunk driving, fled the scene, and went to jail for a year for it.
The progression felt awesome and the characters emotionally connected in moments, but then it felt rushed to heck and back and underdeveloped in others.Caleb and Maggie both felt like realistic characters with strong central conflicts to me - which was one of the reasons I was initially drawn to this story.
I still want to see what happens in the follow-up book, but it doesn't make me want to jump right into the next story for anticipation because I feel like this ended so haphazard.I thought it was worth the time - both for the strong audiobook performance and for watching the relationships between the characters develop and evoke their struggles over time.
But during those times, the people who Maggie thought were her friends began to grow apart from her.
It's bad enough that her mother is trying to make ends meet and trying to make Maggie happy, but since Paradise isn't such a big town, there's a greater chance of Maggie running into Caleb.
The relationship between Caleb and Maggie was so real and extremely heartwarming, and the ways that they struggled to continue their lives, both individually and together, makes you wonder if you are able to be as strong as they are.
Sin embargo aunque la escritura es rápida de leer, la prosa de la autora no me convenció.
Los personajes para ser un libro tan corto están bien desarrollados y se puede conectar con ellos.Hubo un secreto revelado que cambia lo que pensaba que sabia, que no me esperaba para nada pero que le dio un buen giro a la novela.
Y el final me pareció que dio en el clavo por como venían las cosas.Si estas entre lecturas pesadas recomiendo que la leas, es corta, rápida de leer y que no trata una historia tan ligera pero que deja muchas enseñanzas.
Simone Elkeles knocked this book out of the park.
Leaving Paradise is wonderful, the second half particularly stood out to me.
Leaving Paradise will put your heart through the ringer.
This story also touches on the power of forgiveness and learning to trust..
The other thing I must mention is the slow beginning but I forgive that for the amazing second half.I just want to go back and reread some passages from this now.
I'm on the edge of my seat eagerly awaiting the sequel because that was a cruel cliffhanger.4.5 stars!*7/25/11 Recently reread and reviewed on Wit & Fancy.
How you feel about yourself, family, friends and home can change after just one event, one night, and one mistake.
Maybe it takes our worlds completely shattering for us to see the pieces in a whole new way--the pieces and people right in front of us or right next door.Yes, Leaving Paradise has one of my biggest weaknesses—that boy next door!
I can never resist a falling-for-the-boy-next-door story!
:) Where are these boys?Caleb and Maggie’s story was so heartbreaking and compelling.
The idea that the one person who hurt you the most could be the only person to help you heal really hit home for me.
