https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/833834.The_Broken_Spears
A must-read for all those interested in a history not often written: A history written by the nearly vanquished.
They were nearly vanquished.
I knew that English language has survived the English royalty being defeated.
I was taught at university that English was the only language my professors knew to have kept thein language and did not switch their language to that of the ruling class.
That was what my professors of English and rhetoric knew.
And I am glad to know how the Mexican natives have held on their languages.
No siempre hay una sola verdad frente a un hecho. "Visión de los vencidos: crónicas indígenas" es justamente el otro lado de la conquista, contado por los que vivieron, sufrieron y vieron su cultura perderse a causa de la conquista.Tuve que leerlo a las apuradas para realizar un trabajo sobre las crónicas indígenas, y en verdad es muy completo. Me ha dado mucha información que no estaba al tanto, y lo agradezco.Siempre es bueno conocer los dos lados de una misma moneda.
I had to read this for my intro class to Latin America from prehistory to 1800. I absolutely enjoyed reading it. Getting a peak into what the Mexicas felt, saw, and experienced was priceless for understanding the Conquest of Mexico in full. The language though melancholy was quite beautiful. I highly recommend for all history fans.
The importance of a collection of accounts such as the one found in Broken Spears has untold value both in its factual documents shared by the native people who were witness to the events that occurred during the conquest, and also for its expressive value that many cultures throughout history and the present can perhaps, relate to.
I never realized what a significant event this was, both in the telling of my history as an American; but more importantly for the people of the Aztec Empire.
This book provides a detailed account of the destruction of the Nahuatl culture as witnessed by a few of its survivors.Some questions I've always had with regards to the meeting of these cultures: what was going through the native's mind when they first saw these ships?
And how did they interpret their own downfall?
For instance we know that destructive technology and monotheistic religion gave the Spanish reasons to think the "indians" were savages and inferioir.
In stark contrast, the Aztecs humanized the "gods" stating in the nahuatl passages how greed consumed the barbarian's eyes at the sight of gold.
La llegada de los españoles a América contada desde el hombre indígena, que tras luchar a muerte por su libertad, vio morir a su gente, vio contaminar sus ríos con la sangre de los vencidos, vio el hambre y la desolación por todas partes. Una versión de la historia que impresiona al corazón, porque uno no puede salir impertérrito de un relato que mueve los cimientos de lo que la iglesia, los políticos, la SEP nos han contado durante tantos años de la conquista española en México.
Siempre me ha atraído la historia de los indígenas, sobre todo antes de la llegada de los españoles. este libro narra la caída de uno de los pueblos más fuertes de la América precolombina y lo que llevó a ello. se comprende mucho mejor el cómo ocurrió todo desde la visión de los vencidos y no de los vencedores, hay una diferencia importante entre una versión y la otra.
So is the progressively more haunted Moctezuma as he tries most everything possible to interpret what is happening to his empire.This edition also offers facsimiles of some of the illustrations found in the Florentine Codex.Read in conjunction with Castillo's "The Conquest of New Spain" (https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1...), it provides an intense, disconcerting experience, as you watch these two radically different world views come in to conflict.
It is the beginning of the unspeakable brutality which the Old World brought to the New, with the end result being the wiping out of at least 90% of the population of the two Americas.
Nechce sa mi čítať o tom, ako niekto niekoho sťahuje z kože, ani ak ide o domorodé kmene.
Es fantástico , uno aprende mucho , y nos ayuda a comprender el pensamiento de las personas ante la llegada de los conquistadores .
It's as refreshing as it was when it was first published many years ago.
In recent years, academic studies have been more inclined to also address "cultural adaptations" which certainly allowed these voices to be reproduced and heard for many centuries after the Conquest.
Looking back, it is amazing how, despite the fact that these are voices of the "defeated", they also permeated other voices and echoed for long enough to still be "heard" in the present.
Under this perspective, this book is not a story of the "defeated" but a story of survivors.
Although this book lacks a strong narrative flow and overall context which would be critical for someone new to the subject area, if you are familiar with the Spanish version of events, then this is a must-read that fills in a lot of gaps in the Spanish account which helps to humanize the Aztec/Mexica and explain how cultural differences have lead to misinterpretations on both sides.
It is a fairly quick read and well worth the time if you want to round out your knowledge of the events leading up to and following the fall of Tenochtitlan.
Classic account from Nahuatl texts of the battle between the Spaniards and Aztecs. Just a few perspectives and best read with a textbook or more thorough descriptions of the Encounter era. But so evocative and descriptive. Really easy read that my surrender love--but helps to have a more straightforward narrative to put this in context with. The editor was one of the first to do this back in the 50s when few read indigenous peoples' perspectives anywhere. So a great bit of historiography.
It is mainly about telling the story-from different codexes- of the Spaniard conquest to the aztec capital (Tenochtitlan), and the territories around it... There're a lot of Mexican names which makes reading it a little bit uncomfortable --By the way, it was one of my history class requirement, and that is why I am reading it.. Honestly, I would not be interested reading this kind of books
Si eres mexicano es lectura obligatoria para conocer tu cultura.
Si se quiere aprender el punto de vista de los indigenas mexicanos un poquito antes de la conquista... éste es el libro para hacerlo!
A tragic history that everyone alive today must study. Amazingly condensed while also casting a wide net, leaving the reader with as much hope as there can be for the Nahua people.
An important historical text that gives the largely unheard perspective of the Aztecs when the Spaniards came to their land.Very dense, repetitive, and overall boring. Not my kind of book.
i'm like halfway through this book and it's fucking great. why the fuck aren't more history books written like poetry?
A must read!!!
One of a kind. This was a great read, even if it was required book for class. I enjoyed every minute of it. This book will have you questioning everything you previously believed.
Reto de Lectura 2015: "Un libro basado en una historia real".
Had to read this for a class and I really enjoyed it!

The story of the Cortés and his conquistadors overturning the Aztec empire is typically told from the Spanish perspective ("history is written by the victors" etc.), so this classic (1959) book reminds us -- and it tries to set the record straight by showing some of the accounts from the Aztec side.The foreword tries to link it to the current struggles in Latin America, and the various revolutionary movements.
While true, that is also what I read in contemporary history (e.g., Conquistador: Hernán Cortés, King Montezuma, and the Last Stand of the Aztecs).
An easy read given the date of original publishing. While slightly limited in covered content (depth) it is unique in covering accounts from the native perspective, where the greater depth can be found in other works.That uniqueness can be an issue given the lack of original source material, as on a few occasions the accounts are a bit too similar. While useful for corroboration it does handicap what is contained in the work.Very handy reference material and perspective.
"Vision of the vanquished" --This book is unique in that it's the voice of those conquered, which is pretty rare for most historical events. It packs different accounts from Nahua peoples who lived during the conquest of their incredible lands. Fascinating to hear the poetic way the Aztec people described seeing horses and Spaniards for the first time. Significant part of history of the Americas; quick read.
Glad to have revisited this in its entirety after reading only a few chapters months ago for a grad school assignment. These oral and written Aztec accounts of the fall of Tenochtitlan and the Spanish conquistadores provide some excellent perspectives on the brutality of the time and the mixed emotions that can be evoked by exploring such a wide cultural and historical gulf. Well worth the read.
Originally published in Spanish in 1959, this work draws from multiple sources written within a lifetime of the events. It covers the events from another perspective we don't usually see in history (at least as I was taught in school) and is important for that. It's moving, tragic, and sad. But worth reading.
Sin duda un pasaje sumamente interesante en la historia de México, la redacción no ayuda mucho al libro ya que hace que la lectura sea algo confusa y tediosa.A los que disfrutan este tema y este período histórico de México, les recomiendo ampliamente que lean Azteca de Gary Jennings, un libro exquisito y lleno de emoción de este período.
