https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/109901.The_Cold_Dish
"On the afternoon of June 25th, 1876, as the heat waves rolled from the buffalo grass, giving the impression of a breeze that did not exist, Colonel George Armstrong Custer and five companies of the Seventh Cavalry rode into the valley of the Little Big Horn. Also that afternoon, Davey Force, a pitcher for the Philadelphia Athletics, went six for six against Chicago, who scored four runs in the ninth to pull out a 14 to 13 victory. Custer was not so lucky." Big Horn MountainsSheriff Walt Longmir
Big Horn MountainsSheriff Walt Longmire of Wyoming's Absaroka County is having a hard time getting his life back together after the death of his wife.
Sharps RifleWhen a second boy of the four is also shot with the same weapon Walt realizes he is in a race against time if he hopes to keep more murders from happening.
Walt hates that truck, but..."There was one thing I liked about Henry's truck, even if I never told him: its comfortable smell of old steel, earth, and leather.
Solid narrative with guts! This is the first novel in the “Longmire Mysteries” book series. MODERN-DAY SHERIFF I have watched the TV adaptation of Longmire since its beginning.I decided to watch it since it has three cast members that I was familiarized and I like to watch them to perform:-Katee Sackhoff, from Battlestar Galactica (the re-imagined TV series) and she was honestly my main reason to watch this TV series. She plays “Deputy Victoria (Vic) Moretti”.But I didn’t mind to find too…-Cass
He plays “Henry Standing Bear”.Also, I like the concept of a modern-day sheriff, investigating murders.
Sheriff Walt Longmire, is the sheriff in the fictional Absaroka County.While the TV series is different in certain elements and dynamics than the original book series, certainly I can say that any fan of the TV series would enjoy to read the novels.
When one of them winds up dead, sheriff Walt Longmire finds himself in the middle of murder investigation.
And are his three compadres next on the hit list?In my never-ending quest to sample what series crime fiction has to offer, I decided to give The Cold Dish a try.
After all, A&E wouldn't make a crime series about a dud, would they?The setting sets the Cold Dish apart from most crime fiction on the racks.
I liked the backstory and I loved that I had no idea who the murderer was until Walt did.And now here's the stuff I wasn't crazy about.
Walt Longmire is just wanting to finish out his term as sheriff of Wyoming's Absaroka county in peace and quiet.
Don't feel bad for Cody though, he and his buddies violently raped a young Cheyenne girl.
Walt Longmire is that type of character that grabs my fickle attention.
He lost his wife 4 years previously and has not recovered from her death yet, he does have the inner sense of good and that makes this book shine.
"Good.""Then you opened your mouth..."I was entertained enough that I might just turn my Netflix back on because I've never seen the show that was developed from this book and now I'm curious.
I was loving it because it was so cute and funny, but then on page ten I found out that a key plot point was the gang-rape of a teenaged girl with fetal alcohol syndrome with many objects besides penises.I have a real problem with rape books, often having to DNF because I just can't take fiction on this topic (see The Round House), but fortunately for me Johnson skirted around the rape enough so that I could read this and finish it.
I was tempted to say that the main difference between the two is the absence of the supernatural, weirdness factor, but by the end of this first book in the series, the story veered right into some shamanism, new agey spiritual communnion with dead people, so I say give David Lynch a call and sell him a new TV series.I mentioned earlier Dick Francis, but the connection is more in style and general forthright attitude of characters than in content.
This is the first book in Craig Johnson's long-running series featuring Walt Longmire, the middle-aged sheriff of Absaroka County in Wyoming.
The books, in turn, would later inspire the television program that was named for the sheriff.This book opens with the shooting death of a young man named Cody Pritchard.
He'd rather just do his job, drink a few cans of Rainier beer and let it go at that.In Longmire, Craig Johnson has created a character that obviously appeals to a large number of readers and television viewers.
Ruby, dispatcher/receptionist, interrupts his musings to tell him he has a call from Bob Barnes, who wants to report a dead body he discovered when he and his son went to collect their sheep.“She leaned against the doorjamb and went to shorthand, ‘Bob Barnes, dead body, line one.’I looked at the blinking red light on my desk and wondered vaguely if there was a way I could get out of this.‘Did he sound drunk?’‘I am not aware that I’ve ever heard him sound sober….‘‘Hey Bob. What’s up?’‘Hey, Walt.
He used a paring knife, but it got the job done, and the rubes in town do think it's a miracle, despite the fact that it happened 6 months after the tree was hit.
I did like most of the characters in the book - this little town seemed peopled with interesting, smart, and funny characters with loads of personality.
It just seems strange to me because he DIDN'T read at all during the course of this book, yet rattled off literary references and quotes like they were tattooed on the inside of his eyelids.
Often the first in a series is a bit awkward, but this one hit on all cylinders for me right out the gate.Walt Longmire, the 50-something sheriff of the fictional Absaroka County in northern Wyoming, gets a case of a young man shot by a large caliber gun likely to be an antique buffalo rifle.
That he gets help from such visions at critical times of danger may strike some as a bit over-the-top or as crass cultural misappropriation, but, for what it’s worth, I don’t feel that way.If you join my addiction to this series, you will find it hard to find copies of out-of-print volumes early in the sequence.
When starting this book as a result of my daughter's recommendation, I didn't think a murder mystery set in sparsely-populated Wyoming would hold my attention.
When finished, I realized this was one of the most enjoyable books I've read this year, I marveled at how well-written it was, and I wondered how Craig Johnson's books had heretofore escaped my attention.
Johnson has created several intriguing characters in this book, all with a subtle technique of describing themselves through their dialogue.
Recently I saw a trailer on A&E plugging the debut of TheWalt Longmire Mystery series coming to tv with the first to be aired last Sunday.
Time to turn the pages!The Walt Longmire series begins with The Cold Dish and it seemed appropriate to start right at the beginning.
The Longmire series is much about what it's like to be a Wyoming Sheriff and Johnson is quick to point out the man needs to be big.
The Cold Dish is a solid start as the first in what is now eight books.
Craig Johnson’s The Cold Dish introduces Walt Longmire, long-time sheriff of the fictional Absaroka County, Wyoming.
While Longmire and his band of deputies investigate the murder, more bodies start to pile up.This book is a traditional mystery, meaning solving the puzzle surrounding the crime at hand is the main point of the plot.
This will infuriate the nobody-can-make-decent-films-of-books posse: the TV series shows what the book could have been, but isn’t.The sheriff’s department Johnson wrote is staffed with people who mostly get along, set in a town where most everyone likes Our Hero and each other.
I read this because I really love the TV show, but it spoiled a lot of things on the show for me, so then I decided to not read any more. So, if there was no TV show, I would read all of them. Does that make me a bad person? Or am I just an awesome TV watcher?
And to be fairly honest the book did more than satisfy my curiosity.The actual story starts several years before this tale takes place in the form of a group rape of an Indian girl.
They share a bond and mutual respect that really shows through the story.In this book Walt is looking for the murderer of two of the perps of the rape of the Indian Girl, He would like to fall in love with a beautiful woman that has been in his life on and off for a very long time.
A nice change to a murder mystery with a western backdrop taking place in a small town in Wyoming.
Walt Longmire, sheriff for 24 years, widowed, gives us a wonderful description of the beautiful country seen thru his eyes.
His friendship with Henry Standing Bear and his banter with deputy Vic (Victoria) Moretti add nicely to the story line.An interesting twist toward the end of the book as to whom was murdering the boys convicted of raping a disabled Cheyenne girl a few years back.A good series for mystery and western lovers.4 out of 5 stars.
There are threads that run in the background of the primary story that weave through the series, and are adeptly begun in this first book.Unfortunately, that plotting comment on the sub-plot is a point where I would offer some criticism.
Johnson captures the sense of setting very well.I would have loved to give Longmire, Book 1, a solid 4-star if not a 5, but I can't.
I could feel the presence of the author too much at these points, and you should never sense the author trying to do anything in a story.
I have now read all twelve Longmire books (in reverse release order).I believe I started last June, so that works out to about two of the books in the series per month.The Cold Dish is a powerful work.
The characters are supremely well developed and as a reader the characters become quite endearing.Mr. Johnson's ability in infuse humor into the story line is an art in itself.
The humor fits the characters and it fits the story line.
As one reads along, the realization that Wyoming itself is one of the main important characters of the books.
This story of a smart, seasoned and kind Sheriff just had me from the beginning.
A fairly small town band of characters only add to the rich story line.
A murder of a youth that was convicted of the rape of a young girl starts the roller coaster story line.
The banter between the Sheriff and his best friend called Bear is so random and dry that it is just hilarious and sometimes inappropriate which makes it even funnier.
Real characters that feel like old friends by the end of the book.
I cant wait to continue with this series.
Thank you Audible reviewers for leading me to this new series.
Per usual, you can find this review and others like it at  Tome RaiderThis was my first contemporary mystery and I couldn't be more happy with this book.Walt Lomgmire is the Sheriff of Absaroka County, Wyoming.
Walt is given the case and quickly finds out that the other boys lives might also be in danger.
He also rivals GRRM with his love for making you super hungry through his descriptions of food.
Other than those rather petty complaints, I couldn't have been more surprised at how much I loved this book.
"But Walt's a pretty good guy...the kinda guy if my car slithered off the road on I-80 in a blizzard, he's the guy I'd want to help me out." Johnson admits to portraying Walt Longmire, the hero in this award-winning series, as "The kinda guy my wife says I want to be in about 10 years."Starting from his choice of book title all the way to the final period at the end of the book Johnson's prose fills the reader's soul with a longing for the good.
His home is worse than a bachelor pad, his deputy Vic is forever giving him a hard time about being overweight, and there's mouse droppings on his cooking utensils.Despite the fact that Walt's life seems to be in a shambles, the people of Absaroka County like Walt, especially his good friend and Cheyenne Indian Henry Standing Bear.
All the characters in this novel are fascinating: Vic, Lucien, Omar, Jules, Ruby, George, Vonnie, Dena, Melissa and Lonnie Little Bird...yes, it is so.
This fact is reinforced when Vic is giving her crime updates to Walt at various times throughout the novel.
I'm willing to assume that Johnson knows the difference between a furlong and a furlough and further assume that the publisher is responsible for these.Mr Johnson showed that he has done considerable research into the firearms used by the characters in his book, but he has erred on a couple of points.
Also, on Page 161, in referring to the firearms used by the Native Americans in 1876 during Custer's last fight, he refers to "old fashioned Henry rifles".
All things considered, this was a very good mystery and I will definitely be going on to read the next book in the series some day soon.
I tried watching the TV series & didn't care for it, so I was surprised at how good the book was.
It was quite a bit longer than it needed to be, but that was part of the writing style - very laid back & subtle at times.
Made for a likable, humble character who was really quite a bad ass & yet a softie, too.
I liked the way it was used to describe the blizzard trek.
On top of all that, it was quite a good murder mystery.
The way the weapon was used against the suspect list was tricky & good.I'm definitely looking forward to another!
I have no idea what I was thinking, giving this only three stars the first time I read it.It is absolutely fantastic. A mystery that you keeps you guessing, wonderful characters... it's everything I love in a mystery novel.
I'm giving this book (after consideration) four(4) stars though it's a low 4.
You'll love the detail about Walt, Vic and others.
That's not the type of book I particularly like so as I said...it was slow for me.Now that said somewhere around the halfway mark as we got more involved in the actual plot (which was introed early on but got lost for a while in the detail) I got involved and enjoyed the book.Also I think fans of Tony Hillerman might like this one as it uses Native American (American "Indian" as is used in the book) mysticism in the plot.

I enjoyed reading this book and give it a solid 4 stars.
It is the first book in the series.
Walt Longmire is the Sheriff of Absaroka County, Wyoming.
Absaroka is not an actual County in Wyoming, but there are Absaroka mountains.
He asks the location of the body and is about to hang up and head out when the caller says:'Hey, Shuuriff?
Dad says for you to bring some beer, we're almost out." I did not realize who the murderer was until almost the end.
There are some laugh out lines in this book.
The TV series Longmire is based on this series and is pretty faithful to the books.
With the Big Horn mountains as the backdrop, the Busy Bee Cafe, the White Buffalo Sinclair station, Swayback Road, Crazy Woman Canyon - they all ring true.The characters are richly drawn - Walt, the tough laconic sheriff who is inching his way toward retirement, Deputy Victoria (Vic) Moretti, who can turn the air blue with her peppery language, Henry Standing Bear, Walt's longtime friend.
It is good to know that Walt Longmire, sheriff of Absarok County, is on the scene, a true standup guy with plenty of smarts and experience to keep the peace and insure that there is no revenge served up at all.Craig Johnson is a new author for me, not quite sure how I had missed him until now.
Walt Longmire is the type of guy I wanna have a beer with.
He's the down to earth sheriff in a small county, with small county problems.
A great backdrop for a mystery novel.
It's a nice contrast to similar books that always seem to be based in major cities.
All in all, a tight book with a great cast and some unexpected twists.Inspired by this book, here are the characters I'd most like to have a beer with, let me know who you'd pick!- Walt Longmire- Harry Dresden- Druss- Logen Ninefingers- Hoid- Tyrion Lannister- Mitch Rapp- Mother Newman- Kelsier- Jorg Ancrath
