https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/29044.The_Secret_History
Like a freshman who annoys everyone with her overbearing sense of importance and unfathomable potential, Donna Tartt wrote this book as though the world couldn't wait to read about all of the bottled-up personal beliefs, literary references, and colorfully apt metaphors that she had been storing up since the age of 17.The most fundamentally unlikable thing about this book is that all of the characters -- each and every one of them -- are snobby, greedy, amoral, pretentious, melodramatic, and selfish.
It’s been a long time since a book has stuck with me so completely as this one, and I say that having had a quite remarkable year for memorable reading.
The reason why I’m pointing out that it’s not a new book is because, since reading it, I’ve been told by several people that it is their Favorite Book Ever.
One of the blurbs on the inside of the jacket said that it read like a 19th century novel, and I don’t think that’s at all unearned.
It takes its time developing atmosphere and character quirks and some of the days in the novel take dozens of pages to unfold.
While Richard is not entirely convincing as a male narrator (a fact I find more noticeable every time I re-read the book), he and his friends make up a fascinating cast of characters: six aloof, self-absorbed and arrogant intellectuals who are obsessed with ancient Greece and don't particularly care for modern life.
The Secret History is very much a book about friendship.
The book basically reads like an elegy on a great friendship, and one doesn't necessarily have to share Richard's intellectual attitude towards life, his morality or even his morbid longing for the picturesque to be able to relate to that.
Yes, you, because my guess is that, as a modern-day example of all the characters in this novel, you probably have a goodreads account, and read nothing but "tome-suh" and write snide, condescending, long-winded comments and boring as a brochure reviews jerking off whatever dense novelist or philosopher had previously caught the fancy of whatever other dense novelist or philosopher you had previously jerked off.
This is a 500+ that you read like a 200-pager, and watching Donna Tartt unspin her spool is really a delight (damn, you mean it's an enjoyable novel??
And you if you are the sort of person who relates to the characters in this novel.
“Beauty is terror. Whatever we call beautiful, we quiver before it.”  I have never read anything like this book in my entire life. I laid in bed for over an hour last night upon finishing this book, just tossing and turning and thinking about everything I just consumed. I still don’t think I can put my feelings into words, but I can honestly say this book was a cathartic experience for me, and the irony of the word “catharsis” being a Greek rooted word is not lost on me, because if this book i
The Secret History is told in a unique style, which is a man reminiscing on some significant events that took place in his college life a bit over a year ago.
All the characters are morally grey to just generally horrible people, but you completely ignore it because Donna Tartt weaves this hypnotic spell with her writing, that you feel like you are reading this book in a dream like lull.
God, I’m being so cryptic, but if you’ve read the book maybe this paragraph will mean something to you, because it means the world to me.
Apparently the New York Times described The Secret History as "Powerful...Enthralling...A ferociously well-paced entertainment" and Time said "A smart, craftsman-like, viscerally compelling novel."Very funny, guys, ha ha and all that.
Tickle my tootsies and call me something Latin...ooooh.This book puts you in the kind of trance where you don't mind that The Secret History is mercilessly ripped off from Brideshead Revisited.
Well, I didn't mind at all because I hadn't read Brideshead Revisited then, which I suspect most of young Donna's readers hadn't either and I further suspect the reviewers of The New York Times and Time hadn't.
They are like no boys I've ever met: dressing souly in dark suits and silken cravats, while the lone female is called Camilla, smokes, speaks with a gravely femme-fatale voice and wears over-sized cashmere sweaters and is compared, looks-wise, to Helen of Troy.This being said, perhaps it's not the most believable of novels, pray tell, however, it is EXACTLY what I LOVE in novels.
If I really had met a girl in college who kept dusty tea-cups and water glasses filled with dandilions on her bedside table.It was a beautiful book with great character development.

It’s vivid to the point that it wasn’t even like I was watching a movie or seeing each scene; I feel like I became a character in the book.
This book was published 5 years before I was born and yet I felt like I was there at Hampden college using payphones and smoking a pack a day.
Whereas tartt’s previous book I read, The Goldfinch, felt like it could have been 200 pages shorter, I relished every page of this.
The gist of Nietzsche’s theory is that the ancient Greeks attained such a high level of culture mainly due to their personal struggle between the opposing philosophies of Apollo and Dionysus; Apollo being the god of art, and thus, stagnation, while Dionysus is the god of debauchery and barbarism, and thus, action.
This struggle between appreciation for art and culture and a zeal for living is what Nietzsche credits for the Greeks impressive progress.
His students loved him, but they (or Henry, at least) realized the inherent stagnation in pouring over ancient texts and art--they needed a Dionysian push to move them forward to real progress.
Okay, so let me see if I understand what's going on in this book: These college kids accidentally murder someone while participating in some ancient ritual which involves some form of alternate consciousness.
Then, they're shockingly ho-hum about the entire thing because after all it was just some random farmhand or something who just accidentally happened to be around.
They never ever discuss this murder.
I was really drawn in to the first half but as soon as the second half begins, it all goes downhill right until the ending which is the worst part of the whole stupid thing.
"A month or two before, I would have been appalled at the idea of any murder at all. But that Sunday afternoon, as I actually stood watching one, it seemed the easiest thing in the world."  this book starts and it's like: hello bitches, welcome to murder club. Here is Bunny, he is dead, he got murdered. strap the fuck in.This book is actually not funny at all. It's about murder, lots of it. In the first page we find out a group of friends killed one of their own - we know the who-dunnit, this
people doing things for the aesthetic and getting fucking rektBut also, I heard it's like Kill Your Darlings anD I READ IT IMMEDIATELY.
I don't read many mysteries, so maybe it's just me being a genre noob but I found the thrill of the story, and the mystery behind why this group of friends decided to kill one of their own THRILLING.
I was so wrapped up in this story and the murder and why people did it and how they dealt with that afterwards.But beyond a shadow of a doubt, the highlight of this book is the characters.
One of my all time favorites. It's been a while since I read it, have to reread it soon. Great story, very intelligent, very fascinating, keeps you going on and on page by page until the end. Remember reading it on a camping trip in Canada! Simply brilliant. Top ten best reads ever.
Then you try to stand up and the world falls out from under your feet.
The Secret History captured me from the first page with the introduction of the narrator, Richard, and his memories of Hampden College in Vermont.
Tartt has written an excellent novel, telling a great story, but also exploring and satirizing the stereotypes that pop-up in liberal arts colleges.
Plug in any private liberal arts college and the story would read the same.
This is a book I highly recommend to anyone looking for a good, stirring read that will leave you feeling a little drunk and disoriented after the last page --- in a good way.
DNF at 70% “If you love one book by a certain author it does not automatically mean you will enjoy all the author’s work” (Me, while reading The Secret History) .Before I begin my review I have to inform you that Goldfinch is one of my favorite novels. If you want, you can see my short review here. Based on that fact, there should be no doubt in anyone’s mind of how much I love Donna Tartt’s writing. I thought it was perfect in the first novel I read by her, it kept me coming back for more each
“If you love one book by a certain author it does not automatically mean you will enjoy all the author’s work” (Me, while reading The Secret History)
The blurb states that .“Under the influence of their charismatic classics professor, a group of clever, eccentric misfits at an elite New England college discover a way of thinking and living that is a world away from the humdrum existence of their contemporaries".
In all the 400 pages that I read I did not see the classic professor as a charismatic character.
Like Jim Thompson getting the sauce under control and writing about college kids.While Donna Tartt tarts it up a bit, the plot is straight out of the noir playbook.
Fortunately, Donna Tartt can write the shit out of things and the whole is much greater than the sum of its parts.The characters and the writing set it apart from many similar books.
While the writing was good, it took forever for things to actually happen.
Another thing about it that didn't set my world on fire is that I've recently read The Likeness and felt it was a little too soon to read about such a similar group of asshole college kids.All things considered, I guess I was enraptured enough to give this a four.
All I can say is that this book seized hold of me and refused to let go, lured me and seduced me with Tartt's picturesque, poetic language and description, the sustained tension and ominous mood, and the intricacies of the dark, feral, brutal natures and impulses that lurk underneath beautiful, polished surfaces.
I can see how wicked can mean evil/unpleasant, or a New England style excellent for this read, and completely understand its polarizing nature.
I can't tell if I devoured it or it devoured me, or both, but either way I loved this wicked book.
So why can I not bring myself around to loving it?The Secret History is very much a tale of two novels, the split between them coming when Bunny dies.
And if you don’t like even the first pages of novels being spoiled then I suggest you should go outside more often.Side note: it’s rather depressing to read this novel when you’re the same age as the characters.
Nah. Not a chance.So what do I think of The Secret History the second time around?
I’m happy for us both.Oh, and isn’t Judy Poovey just the greatest name of a fictional character in the history of Western literature?
It gets - to use my girlfriend's word, which made me want to just hug the shit out of her - super "plotty" towards the end, which was good, but I felt a little let down by the denouement; I was kinda hoping for (view spoiler)[some huge revelation, like everyone was scheming to frame Richard, or Julian was in on it, or some crazy shit like that, so just having Henry shoot himself was, like...not plotty enough for me?
(hide spoiler)] I don't know, that's unfair of me to say but it's how I felt.I've heard people say that the neat thing about Secret History is how it shines a realistic light on what it really means to murder a guy.
This is such an amazing book that combines crime and Greek language and mythology with Donna Tartt's beautiful writing style.
It is a story about guilt, admiration and repercussions and it blew me away.
I also gave "The Goldfinch" by Donna Tartt 5 stars, but these 5 stars are a little bit different.
The story in itself was very interesting, but it did have its dull moments.
Like so many other stories by Donna Tartt, this is a story that makes you think for days and weeks onwards :)
“I suppose at one time in my life I might have had any number of stories, but now there is no other. This is the only story I will ever be able to tell.”  I'm still in limbo after finishing this book. Honestly, I don't know what I was expecting from The Secret History. This is one of those books were you finish the last page, put it down, and don't know what to do with yourself.   But walking through it all was one thing; walking away, unfortunately, has proved to be quite another, and though o
This is one of those books were you finish the last page, put it down, and don't know what to do with yourself.
Life was constantly butting in which made it really hard to cut out some time to finish this book.
I couldn't think about anything else but this book.
And although I wouldn't say it's slow, Donna Tartt takes her time building the story.
“Are you happy here?" I said at last.He considered this for a moment.
The characters in The Secret History were gray, which completely sucks as a description on my part.
The writing and characters were just superb, and I'm honestly quite upset to have finished this.
'Cause what else is going to hold my attention as well as this novel did?I've never read Donna Tartt's The Goldfinch (her most known work), but I'm going to have to pick it up now.
But if you do decide to give it a chance, I hope you will appreciate the descriptive and lovely writing that Tartt uses to slowly and steadily pull the reader in.
I'm absolutely in love with her writing and her characters, and I cannot wait to read more of her work!
I am not disowning my earlier review but I believe the only way to be fair to Donna Tartt will be to concede another star.Now begins my earlier review.__
Because here we aren't dealing with the solution of a complicated police case but instead getting acquainted with a thread of events which also happen to include a murder from the narrator's point of view who is a reluctant accomplice to the crime.
A classical story becomes twisted in modern times How much do I love and admire Donna Tartt? (This is a rhetorical question; I love and admire her very, very, very much.)I read this compulsively, single-mindedly, with the pure joy of reading sparked by the same excitement I remember having when reading The Goldfinch. She may have focussed on dark subject matter, she may have penned a story filled to the brim with selfish, unimpressed, spoiled brats, but GD can she WRITE. She's just so good. She
She tells a story in a way that makes me irked at any obstacle that keeps me from the next paragraph.
Moved away from his unhappy life in California, he finds his true home among five insufferable classics students in an exclusive Greek program.
These students are Henry, Francis, Bunny, and the twins, Charles and Camilla.
But if I've learned one thing in my short sad life, it is that that particular platitude is a lie.
And whoever thinks it does is a fool.The main criticism I've read of this book is that the characters are not likeable.
ok real talk i didn't know what tf Classics was until i read this and then i thought "hey this is ca
i think the fact that i've just read 600 pages in a day is indication enough that this book is everything to me
The Secret History is about as convincing as Less Than Zero. how has this book stayed so popular? well, Less Than Zero also remains popular. i'll take lev grossman's The Magicians over both of them, and that one is aggravating too. (1) i'm so tired of people who are so tired of everything! (1b) ennui is so very boring, almost as boring as (2) pretentious know-it-alls. this book manages to combine all three. i learned nothing except a new way to be irritated. oh, donna tartt... as if!
There are actually a few spoilers in this sentence, but putting those aside, we have our protagonist who speaks in the first person as in a journal or memoir, confronting out anti-hero "Bunny." Neither of these two characters is presented in a very positive light, they are friends and enemies and I had a hard time caring which way or the other they leaned.
- as well as the dreams one of which ends the book.Overall, it is an interesting read, but not nearly as good as my favorite, The Goldfinch.
You guys, I am really scared that The Goldfinch was so fucking good that it has ruined me for all other books. Everything I've read since has just felt like stupid bullshit (well, with the exception of  You Deserve Nothing , which did manage to rule). Anyway, using the "hair of the dog" theory, I'm turning back to this for a re-read. Maybe once I come out the other side I'll be recalibrated and ready for normal reading life again?***Great good gracious. I am honestly a bit tongue-tied, delirious
I'd guess I probably read it in 2002 or 2003, and although I am a widely acknowledged literary snob now, I wonder if I was actually spoiled from reading better books then, back when my days revolved around work at a bookstore, when there were great golden stretches of time for me to languish over Gravity's Rainbow and Hopscotch and Underworld, before life sped up and filled with real jobs and too much internet-ing and the realities of credit card debt and walking the dogs and proofreading romance novels.
You know from the very first page that the narrator and his friends will kill someone during the course of the story - you even know who the victim is and how he dies.
His five friends, all Greek scholars at an elite private college, are just like him.
The six main characters of this story are not good people, and that does not bother them.
Emotion, darkness, barbarism...Do you remember what we were speaking of earlier, how bloody, terrible things are sometimes the most beautiful?
And what could be more terrifying and beautiful, to souls like the Greeks or our own, than to lose control completely?
