https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/71979.My_Point_And_I_Do_Have_One
one of the funniest books i ve ever read !
i love Ellen so much she is a great human being and funny i loved her books so much and this one is my favorite “That's what life is all about.
So you'd better cry now and get used to it.”i had so many "funny monents that left me laughing out loud :p" LOVE YOU ELLEN :D Was I good at anything?Athletics, I suppose.
You were on the tennis team.
And you started the girls golf team.
You were the only one on the team, playing every day by yourself.
Well, I finished reading the book yesterday.
Except if you can't see the date, then you might think today is yesterday, which it may have well been depending on when you read this review.
But if you read this review today, then it can be accurately concluded that it was really truly yesterday that I finished reading the book.
Like if your dog ate it or you happen to buy a book at a bookstore for cheap because it doesn't have a cover on it.
I love her act in person, but I expected to learn a little bit more about her than I did by reading the book.)
But no, that's totally out of the question :/ I guess Ellen developed her "sense of humour" throughout the years as this book was written in 1995 & I found it hardly entertaining.
I had to chuckle a few times but that's pretty much it.
The running gag here is Ellen's commentary on how she has to write this book consisting of at least 60,000 words to satisfy her lawyers & how hard writing was for her at times.
It does seem like some chapters were written simply to fill up space.Unfortunately, it has been disappointing all in all & I wouldn't really recommend the book :( Let's see what her latest one is like!
Simpatična, full duhovita i zabavna knjiga... baš kao Ellen.
I'd better not get too comfortable in my 3/4 of an inch recline because toward the end of the flight, the flight attendant is going to say, 'You're going to have to put your seat in the upright position for landing.' They're so adamant about that every single time, like that's gonna make a difference.
I can only imagine what a disaster it would have been if I had gotten the coyote into my car."Watch: http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YUjL_F...Ellen's comedy is often a matter of making a statement that's somewhat funny, then adding what seems to be a throwaway qualifying statement that is both funnier than the first and makes the first funnier in itself.
Quirky. Very, very quirky. Almost too much quirk for one book.Review to come.Audiobook CommentsRead by the author (always a plus in my book) however, I soon learned that there were plenty of doodles in this book and opted to stop listening and started reading!Blog | Instagram | Twitter
Why i decided To read this book?i decided to read ellen degeneres my point...and do i have on because i read her seriously im kidding and really liked it, so i ordered this online and read it :) although it was still good it wasnt as good as the first oneWhich category on the bingo board does this cover?i decided to put this in 'My own choice', Mainly because it doesnt cover anything but autobiography and i have already used that,my favourite quote from the book, and why:there were many great quotes in this book but my favourite was '' if you hit your funny bone, you will hear a joke within twenty-four hours.
I had a few good laughs throughout the story and there were some quotes that I related to.
But I felt like the entire book was written as a joke.
None of what was written was believable for the most part and it seemed like someone was just telling me a make believe story about a certain event.
I wanted it to be more of something that taught me something about her and be something relatable instead of reading make believe stories about how she gives her neighborhood children (from five years old and up) alcohol while telling boring stories that are supposed to be funny.
I am a huge fan of ellen and was hoping the poor reviews were wrong.
I admire ellen and she is my favourite comedian.
However I struggled to get through this book.
I really gave it a go, I got to the end when I really didn't even want to keep reading.
The problem is, I think, her book material is written as a standup, relying heavily on expression, timing etc...
I regret spending the money on this book.
Please save your money.
If you really want to read it, borrow from a library.
But its not worth the time imo.
As much as I love Ellen, I hated her book. It was incredibly boring, & not at all funny. It was like she tried way too hard to be funny, & the opposite came across. I almost stopped reading it halfway through, but I stuck it out because I like to finish what I start.
Yikes, most unfunny book by a comedian ever! Thank goodness for David Sedaris.
In short—this was rambling nonsense.Excerpts:In mentioning the ¾” reclining seat on an airplane she commented how flight attendants are adamant about instructing the passengers to put it in its upright position for landing as if it will make a difference.
“Because if we crash, the investigators are going to say, ‘Oh, that’s a shame, her seat was reclined ¾ inch.
She had a section about cures for ailments which had nothing to do with anything, much like the rest of the book.
Her cure for the hiccups was to wear a Viking helmet and snowshoes while watching reruns of “Dynasty.” That’s as funny as it got people.
I’m Kidding, which is Ellen’s third book, but I didn’t find My Point...
But the focus of each chapter in this book kind of gets lost whenever she shifts suddenly to an off topic subject (a problem I didn’t have with Seriously...
I’m Kidding).
Also, most of the really funny parts where in the chapters near the end of the book.
I’m trying to figure that out too) that I don’t find amusing.
Or maybe it lacks the vocal way of Ellen’s spiel-delivery (but then again I read Seriously...
I’m Kidding with the same omission but I still found it funny).
Unfortunately, I think Ellen's genius loses a lot when you can't see what she's doing.
And I Do Have One.Having seen some of Ellen's standup acts, the sections discussing weird bathroom behaviors and airplane experiences were the funniest because I could envision her actions.
I thought this book would be a little bit more about her life than just a written routine -- I would love to know more about her childhood in Louisiana and what it was like being raised as a Christian Scientist.She's still one of my favorite comedians, but I would recommend watching her act instead of reading it.
I've always thought Ellen was pretty funny and I was looking for a laugh, so I picked this up.
I've heard her later books are great and much better, but I have this thing about having to start from the beginning with books.
Since this was her first published book, I had to start here.I did laugh a few times, but overall this was just annoying to read.
I see tons of negative reviews on this but positive reviews on her later works, so I will still read those when I need a good laugh again.
I think possibly part of the problem is that these days people are of course familiar with Ellen Degeneres from her talk show, and although she's retained a similar style of humour throughout her years as a comedian, this book was written before her talk-show days and is more like a long, written-out standup act, which was what she did at the time.
I really enjoyed it, I like that there was never a focus and she never really cared about telling her life story, she just wanted to write some jokes and make a fun book to read.
I was expecting this book to tell me more about Ellen herself and her life. Instead it was just like one long joke - "I did this...ok, only joking, no I never" that sort of thing. I got boring. I didn't discover anything new about Ellen. The only redeeming feature was that it was over relatively quickly. Had it been any longer, I doubt I would have finished it.
a good book to read from when you had a bad day.
Another fun, light-hearted read from Ellen! Not quite as funny as 'Seriously... I'm Kidding' but still worth a read if you are a fan of Ellen.
This book was obviously still trying to hide Ellen's Sexuality. I thought this was supposed to be a biography, but it was a poorly written book with some funny anecdotes thrown in.
So, rather than seeing if perfume irritates a bunny rabbit's eyes, they should throw it in Charles Manson's eyes and ask him if it hurts.” Already read Ellen's other books and thought they were funny but this is my favorite.
I think this book is hilarious and also relevant, (don't know why) it surprised me that I read about, like, how women should look "according to society", animal cruelty (like Ellen, I also don't get why people go hunting, just WHY?) and people in general.
I really enjoyed this, it made me laugh so hard/loud and it has been a while since I read a book that did that.
126 - 2017
Nuguu nomoo duusgiidaa
However, I don't like this book.
I love her standup comedy from the '80s, I even watched an episode here and there of her television show Ellen, & I adore her new Ellen DeGeneres show.
I found myself really wanting to like this book, but in the end I didn't even want to finish it.
I was hoping the book would actually give an insight into how she thinks, her life, maybe even a little bit of real comedy.
All I got was just fluff, I don't think she really even wanted to write this book.
Maybe other people would like it, it's just not for me.
She doesn't go too deep or ask you to - but she does kind of give you that everybody's human so give yourself a break kind of glow.I breezed right through this, chuckling all the way, and I'm glad Ellen is out there, being a gay person whose persona is not all about being gay.
She's like the Bill Cosby of gays.
If Cosby said - my humor doesn't have to be in your face or angry or crass just because I'm black, and if definitely doesn't have to be about being black.
Ellen said - my humor doesn't have to be in your face or sexual or crass just because I'm gay, and it doesn't have to be about being gay.

People have been telling me to read Ellen's books for years so I finally got around to reading one.
I just...did not like this book as much as I wanted to.
It was an easy read and when I did pick it up, I'd read a few chapters just during my lunch break.
But I didn't really want to pick it up.
I know some of the jokes would've worked better with Ellen herself reading them to me.
I've heard better things about her next two books so I'm looking forward to giving those a shot.
I know that Ellen in general has a very non sequitur type of humor in which she ping pongs from one topic to another. Unfortunately, in a book that type of popcorn thinking drives me mad. I expected there to be some cohesion to the chapters, something that tied them together, and as far as I could tell by about halfway in there wasn't anything of the sort. On top of that I didn't find the chapters themselves particularly funny. It's a shame really since I'm fond of Ellen, just not, I've found, of her writing style.
I know I am echoing many of the other reviews when I say simply that this book fell short of expectation. Though I think some of the parts mentioning the contract stipulated word limit were meant to be humorous, the motif appeared often enough to make me think that Ellen actually did have trouble hitting her word limit and thus felt the need to go on long and relatively un-funny tangents. Disappointed.
I don't agree with the title...she doesn't have a point! The irony is that I normally love the randomness of Ellen's comedy; however, I think this book is a little too random. There are a couple of funny parts but overall it feels like she is just trying to fill space or even trying too hard to be funny.
