https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/77490.Hide_and_Seek
I’ve a habit of stumbling into a series and reading subsequent books - those that preceded it and those that followed - in random order.
My only outstanding books are a handful (I’m not quite sure how many as I’m not absolutely certain which ones I’ve read and which I haven’t) at the start of the series.
Here Rankin has created one of the enduring heroes of crime fiction, and what’s really pleasing is that even in this very early book (the series has reached 20 episodes and is still going) the quality is already abundantly clear.
This hardcover copy is signed by author Ian Rankin.
Ronnie's girlfriend, Tracy, tells Detective Inspector John Rebus that Ronnie was distraught before he died, and repeatedly cried "hide, hide." At first it looks like Ronnie overdosed, but Rebus learns that Ronnie's dope was tainted with rat poison.Because Rebus is involved in a drug case his boss, Superintendent Watson, invites the detective to lunch with a few Edinburgh bigwigs who are involved with an anti-drug campaign.
Some side plots in the story involve illegal dog fights, a gay character, and Rebus's ex-lover - Gillian Templer - who has a new radio DJ boyfriend.
This is a pretty good story, recommended to mystery readers - especially Rebus fans.
I have a big complaint about Ian Rankin’s early Rebus novels, and it is a complaint that continues to taint my enjoyment of the series.
He’s his own biggest critic when it comes to the early characterization of Rebus, and he claims that he fixes the problems as the series continues.
He has an illegal boxing club named after Edward Hyde (and by coincidence, Robert Louis Stevenson’s classic just happens to be the book Rebus picks out of a pile to read while in the middle of his investigation).
Rankin knows how to spin a mystery, even at the early stage of his career, and while he didn’t really keep me guessing, he kept me reading.
Una historia mucho más centrada en la investigación que en la vida personal de Rebus, de la que ya tuvimos detalles en su anterior novela. Me ha gustado mucho, con un estilo narrativo que te hace devorar las páginas hasta el final. Se nota que el autor está intentando enganchar a sus lectores en la serie, y conmigo lo consigue. Un thriller poco enrevesado, y que podrá llegar, como así lo ha demostrado, a miles de seguidores. Lectura ágil y agradable, con esporádicos toques de humor.
Rebus himself seems to bridge both sides of the class divide: he is obviously well-educated and well-read, with a love of fine music, yet he doggedly hangs onto elements from his modest social background.
The benefit of reading the early instalments of the Rebus series is to get a good understanding of what makes this curmudgeonly detective tick.
I also think of Rebus as fairly similar to Harry Bosch, Michael Connelly's famous LA detective - they share a lot of personal and professional traits.
In any case, an anonymous tip leads the police to a boarded up home in a housing estate, an abandoned house that drug addicts have taken over.
But there are a few anomalies...Rebus decides to follow up with a tighter investigation, personally seeking leads and interviews with the junkies known to frequent the house, and asking that the police doctor look for contaminated heroin in the victim's body.
Later, as the evidence shows it is the same room the body was in before someone moved it downstairs to the living room, the thought a police officer might be involved further spurs Rebus to keep digging.
I think Rankin was still trying to develop the persona of John Rebus which is so strong in the later books in this long running series.
But that is the fun of reading the early books in a series......seeing the protagonist change and get comfortable in his skin.
I think the problem I had which kept me from giving a higher rating (I love the Rebus books) was the story itself.
There was way too much going on around the overdose death of a local addict.
Rebus has a feeling about it that says it is murder.
The first book had moments where I considered dropping my rating down to two stars, yet this second book remained a consistent three stars throughout.The reason I enjoyed this one more than the first and the reason why it did not work itself to a higher rating can be pointed towards the same thing – the character of Rebus.
He is okay as a means of telling a decent story, but if I’m going to really enjoy a crime series I need to love a character.I am hopeful that the books will continue to improve, though.
Hide and Seek by Ian Rankin.Inspector Rebus #2.A junkie is found dead of an overdose in a tenement.
Inspector Rebus finds a curiously drawn pentagram on the wall nearby and the body arranged with the arms outstretched as if crucified.
And then Rebus glanced at the wall and noticed the words: Hello Ronnie.
A packet of the pure stuff was next to the body but that's not what the examiner found in Ronnie's system at the autopsy.
Rebus is on my must read list as this fantastic tale proves him to be next to none.
I have a lot more reading to do as I think there are 21 books in the series.
Instead I'll relate what I liked about the book and why I want to continue on with the series.
First of all, I like the character of John Rebus.
Well, I liked this book very much so am looking forward to continuing in the series.
Sometimes Inspector Rebus didn't treat him real well but it seemed he was gaining respect for him by the end of the book.The mystery was good.
I am looking forward to continuing on with the series.
The mystery is solid, and the message the reader is left with is no surprise, but I'm still not sure that Rankin (at this juncture -- I haven't read any others but the first in the series) has a handle on exactly who he wants Rebus to become characterwise.
His personal life is a bit of a mystery and he dislikes interacting with other policemen unless he feels an absolute need, And although this book is listed as a police procedural, I'm not sure that's entirely accurate.
Overall the book was good -- I love the way Rankin writes, and Rebus is so enigmatic that I have to keep reading the series to see what happens with his character.
It has all the elements of a great detective, including DI Rebus, who seems to have all the stereotypical characteristics of the Scandinavian loner detectives (semi-alcoholic, divorced, does not play by the rule book etc etc).
Maybe it's a series it takes more than three or four books out of order for getting to like them.A junkie is found OD'ed in a squat.
But Rebus gets some indications that the junkie was actually killed...
Ok, perhaps it would be hard to add some likable characters when most of the bad guys and the people Rebus is investigating are junkies.
Even when he makes an effort with people (not part of a case), it just doesn't go well at all -- we've seen this character before, but it still works -- readers just like this kind of cop.So much of this feels (when you think back on it -- or when you start to realize what he's doing in a scene/with a character) like something you've seen before -- maybe several times.
Knots & Crosses felt like a character study, a good crime novel.
I really like this character, even if I'm not doing a good job talking about him -- I think that'll change in forthcoming books.
Ian Rankin states in his introduction that he used a Jekyll and Hyde theme for this book and it does have that late foggy night, 'I could hear steps behind me on the side walk' kind of feeling to it.
(Further disclosure: I have never actually seen a Wagnerian opera, but if I do, that's the way I would like it to end.) It's just not a suitable for mysteries.Anyway, I'm often picky about endings, so don't let that discourage you.
Perhaps the deceased was killed as part of a satanic ritual or sacrifice?Rebus's supervisor, Superintendent Watson invites Rebus to an exclusive restaurant to meet some influential men in Edinburgh.
The Superintendent and the other men at the table are interested in the drug trade in the area where the body was found.
Tracey tells Rebus that the deceased was a friend, The man had been beaten and was afraid someone was coming after him.The story moves nicely and we get a good picture of Rebus with the usual desires of a man, a good drink and the company of women.The plot develops in an unexpected but nicely described manner.
Hide and Seek by Ian Rankin is the second Inspector rebus novel.
Inspector Rebus is called to a suspected overdose at a housing squat, but finds that rat poison had been added to the heroin and satanic symbols surround the body.
He then finds links to an exclusive gambling club with multiple influential members.
The book started slow but picked up in the second half.
It was interesting but not really the type of mystery that I like.
It seemed to be going nowhere at the start with seemingly unrelated events that even though they connected at the end were quite tedious to read initially.
This series is dark and edgy- one of the few mystery series set in contemporary times (besides P.D. James' works which I absolutely love) that I enjoy. Inspector Rebus is your typical semi-alcoholic, "doesn't-play-by the rules" type of detective, but does not come across as a cliche. The mysteries are interesting, if dark, and not terribly predictable.  Hide and Seek  is one of the earliest in the series and although short, is a good intro to the series and the characters.
With this the second book in the series, Ian Rankin found that he had become a writer of police procedurals.
Perhaps Rebus will never be fully settled but Ian Rankin will, as we all know, acquire complete mastery of the genre.
I guess that this sums up the entire series, but I have many more books to read.The path which leads to a solution is not completely believable and the resolution hurried and unsatisfactory.
I think Rankin starts getting it really right from the fourth book of the series Strip Jack.
This is only the second in the series, but Rebus is already older, jaded and suffering an unhappy personal life.
The investigation literally and figurative leads ever downward.
At the same time, Rebus' boss, who they all call The Farmer, has tapped him for a place in a new anti drug campaign that he is starting with a large group of the local movers and shakers including a well known Estate salesman, an attorney, the owner of a private casino and more.
He's been asked to be a part of it because his brother is serving a long sentence for one of the leading drug dealers in Edinburgh.
This is only the second in the series.
Let that be a warning.
Another warning.
Inspector John Rebus does not accept that the junkie's death was an accidental overdose, especially when that overdose was loaded with rat poison and the young man's death staged to look like an occult ritual.
Further investigation complicates the case even further and eventually leads to horrific dark secrets involving the highest powers in the city.
Rebus is a great detective, but he cannot seem to get his own life in order.
He is difficult to get along with and hopeless when it comes to relationships with women.
I enjoyed the first book and liked this one even more, so I will definitely continue with the series.
Me ha gustado mucho mas que el primero, no me equivocaba al decir que en el primer libro el autor se
Somewhat of a disappointing outing for me. The writing was sub-par for me compared to book one. And it seemed rushed and muddied. A step down from the first in the series. And Rebus wasn't really a smart ass in this book - he was an arsehole so it was a pleasant little burst of joy when he got his berries busted. Hoping future books have a upward trajectory.
another enjoyable yarn in teh life of Rebus
Leider eine eher enttäuschende Fortsetzung! Inspektor Rebus ist mir in diesem Buch weder besonders sympathisch noch finde ich seine Figur interessant. Den leicht deprimierten, trinkenden Inspektor, der kein Glück mit den Frauen hat, kennt man schon und hier bietet sich nichts Neues. Die Polizeiarbeit wirkt stellenweise erschreckend stümperhaft. Auch der Fall ist eher mäßig interessant.
I understand that Hide and Seek would not be able to continue developing John Rebus as a character the same way Knots and Crosses but I still expected more.
I knew Rankin could write a crime novel that was not formulaic or unoriginal, but Hide and Seek was not on the same level as the first book in the series.It has been come out that Hide and Seek was Ian Rankin’s attempt in presenting a modern take on The Strange Case of Dr Jekyll and Mr Hyde.
****.Inspector Rebus is called to the scene of an apparent drug overdose in one of the less desirable sections of Edinburgh.
Later, after the scene of the crime boys have done their job, he learns that the heroin that the dead man had shot up contained lethal levels of rat poison.
Rebus and his co-workers are hailed off in that direction, looking for possible connections to members of the occult underworld.
With that information, we then are taken on a merry case that ultimately leads to the discovery of an association of rich and famous men in the city that have a lot to hide.
This book, the second installment in the Inspector Rebus series, is much much better than the original Rebus story.
Rankin seems to have a penchant for off-kilter endings, in fact, since his first Rebus book did as well.
I wasn't planning to read Rebus #3, until I got to the very end of this one.
Now I may have to, just to see if Rankin follows up on the decisions he has left Rebus with here.
In any case I'll definitely be reading Rebus #8 and #13, which are Rankin's award winners, to see if the series improves further.
Rankin's "guy" is John Rebus, a police detective in Edinburgh.
John Rebus is a Detective Sergeant in Edinburgh in the first novel, and the case gets him promoted to Detective Inspector for this one.
Being an Inspector, he's got seniority but not rank.
He gets to utilize (and terrorize) the PCs (Police Constables) that work at the station, but it's not as if he's supervising a squad, such as Lt. Fancy on "NYPD Blue."The story of this case is good and unpredictable, which is essential in a murder mystery.
Once again, we visit the dark streets of Edinburgh with Rankin's second effort in his Rebus series.
I'm aware that Rebus improves (or mellows even) as the series progresses, but this reads more like a debut novel than the debut novel knots and crosses!Maybe I've seen too much crime shows on the TV or read too much crime fiction, but this effort does seem by the numbers and Rebus lacks depth, there are times when you shrug your shoulders at Rebus' plight, not what the author would have intended for the reader.
