https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/127645.Sword_Dancer
Because we like Sword-Dancers:)I had no idea what to expect of this 1986 published Fantasy by J.
The story is told from the POV of a 30-something, very macho-horn-dog sell-sword, a master Sword-Dancer in the Southern Deserts, and a apparently irresistible to women Sandtiger, aka.
Not ready to give up on seducing her, our brave sward-dancer decides to assist Del in finding her brother and protect her while in the desert lands, no matter that she does not want him to.
While most of the story is a rode trip desert adventure, Tiger and Del's developing relationship and the mystique of the Northern Swords are in the core of the tale.
And so I plunged into the story of Tiger and Del not knowing what to expect and not really expecting anything.
The story is narrated by Tiger aka.
Tiger is your usual charming sexist-warrior and his macho man narrative is hilarious.
This gorgeous woman is, of course, Del (surprise, surprise, also a sword-dancer, just from far up north).
The world is divided into North and South, described as similar and yet different like man and a woman, like day and night, like summer and winter.
What happens between Del and Tiger is important, but happens on the margins of the actual plot-line (yes, there is a plot line, imagine that!
He is Tiger.
A sexist Southron sword-dancer.
Determined to save her younger brother even if it means traversing the desert and hiring Tiger as her guide.He assumes she will fail.
She assumes he cannot understand.And neither of them will survive.If they continue to underestimate one another.One of my all time favorite fantasy novels!
Sword-Dancer is the first of six books in the Tiger and Del series by Jennifer Roberson.
Plenty of action, adventure, and traditional fantasy.
And plenty of heat.
But what makes these books so surprising, and entertaining, is Tiger’s hilarious commentary.
Not quite 3 stars because the beginning was a rough read that took me 3 tries to complete, but I'm rounding up for the sly subversiveness of the storytelling and the subtle ways in which the writing plays off of classic genre tropes. This book wasn't what I expected, but it turned out to be a lot better than what I was hoping for.
This is a 3.5 stars read. It is a fantasy classic, told in a first person point of view - Tiger - of a fantasy tale about swords (and to some extent magic). The characters are the best aspect of the book in my opinion and the desert should be considered a character in the story. Just splendid!I cannot wait to read the following story!
This is essentially your traditional pulp fantasy. It is not going to set the literally world alight, but is was a joyous uncomplicated read. I will definitely continue the series as I am keen to find out what is next in store for Tiger and Del.
Apparently this is a desert where waterholes and oases are only a day or two apart, but Tiger spends a lot of time talking about how sometimes wells are fouled, and sandstorms come up in a moment, and there are all these dangerous animals that can lay you low, and no time at all preparing for any of those dangers.
But every time things were moving along decently well and Roberson was rebuilding my suspension of disbelief she would do something else that revealed her lack of control over her novel: the characters would do something inconsistent, or some aspect of the world would get lost that was set up earlier, or a passage of time would be handled badly.
Continuing on with my project of re-reading all my Roberson, I started in on the Tiger & Del series.
I really loved the series back when I first discovered it, especially since I had read several of the short stories about them in various of the Sword & Sorceress collections.
This first novel stands up well upon re-reading.
According to the S&S volume where they first appeared, MZB nearly threw Roberson's short story across the room at the beginning, responding to Tiger's apparent stereotypical barbarian-man behavior.
I read Jennifer Roberson's historicals long before I discovered her fantasy books.
The mighty sword-dancer the Sandtiger is ensconced in his usual corner, enjoying the wine (and the cantina girls), when in walks trouble in the form of a woman from the north with ice-pale hair, a sword strapped to her back, and vengeance on her mind.
And the wonderful thing, the thing that had me jumping up and down inside as I read this book for the first time, is the fact that Del is just as remote and prickly and hard as Tiger is annoying.
BR with the Sword-Dancer Group from FBR: Emily, Aristea, Veronica, Shaitarn and Mayim.Just because we're women doesn't mean we don't know how to dance!
:)This was a light sword and sorcery classic from the 80s and a real entertaining read.A search for a long lost brother, and a perilous journey through the desert serve to bring together a tough macho from the south called Tiger, deadly with both his blade and looks, and a fierce proud woman from the north Del, just about as deadly as her companion.Their adventures, told from Tiger's macho type perspective, are hillarious at times and touching at others.
Probably longer.I never read these as a kid, but they made me nostalgic for the kind of books I DID read as a kid.
this might still sound terrible, but it's one of those books that you can see is trying so hard not to be sexist (view spoiler)[Del confronts Tiger about his sexism multiple times (hide spoiler)] but is still a product of the 1980's it was written in, so .
well, is still sexist.Was hoping this would be one of those romantic relationships I fell hard for and so far it's not, but maybe the next books will convince me.
Sword Dancer by Jennifer Roberson⭐⭐⭐⭐⭐4.5⭐⭐⭐⭐⭐Always an enjoyable comfort read.
Original review below.Yet another novel that hooked me from Page one.
I instantly disliked Tiger's attitude, but his internal monologue had me laughing out loud.
I actually made some of my friends sit so I could read them the first couple pages.
Being a woman I don't know how well Ms. Roberson captured the essence of a man, but if I guessed I would say brilliantly.
Tiger is at once chauvanistic and yet caring.
She put Tiger in his place so quickly.
She was troubled and mysterious and I wanted to see Tiger break open her shell.
When I am queen of the world, libraries will be required to have the first book in every series the stock; in fact, twice as many of the first as of the rest.I'm glancingly familiar with Roberson from her Cheysuli books, but they're not my sort of thing; any series where I have to consult the genealogical graph in the frontmatter is operating at a severe handicap with me.
Combine this with a glowing review from See Michelle Read and I am done for – hook, line, and sinker.The book in question is Sword-Dancer by Jennifer Roberson is currently out of print I think.
You see, my boyfriend’s grandmother left behind a treasure trove of fantasy novels, and with some digging, I found among her shelves a faded copy of Sword-Dancer, complete with a receipt inside from the 1980s.
Finding this book does make me sad that I will never get to meet my boyfriend’s grandmother, because with her fierce taste in books, I think we would have gotten along very well.Read the rest of my review here
Loved this! In a lot of ways it felt like a classic sword and sorcery novel and yet it also turned a lot of those tropes around. I think it was brilliant to have the pov character as Sand Tiger--it was the best way to make his character likable, if the story had been from Del's pov he would have come off as a chauvinistic jerk through more than half of the book. I also loved the character growth of both Tiger and Del throughout the story.
Unfortunately, those memories are now replaced by knowing that it is pretty much a waste of paper.I'm not sure if it's an artifact of the 80s or just the desert culture Roberson described, but the unrelenting sexism really grated on me.
Though I have to wonder if Roberson really had to make every ruler a venal waste of skin and if they really had to be betrayed by every single person with any power that they met(view spoiler)[ (okay, one exception there at the end, but that felt more like authorial fiat than anything real) (hide spoiler)].
Tiger is one of the mightiest sword-dancer's in the south, a renowned warrior, a legendary sword for hire.Del is a woman from the frozen north, a woman with a magical sword of her own who is seeking her young brother, kidnapped by southern slavers five years previously.
This isn't a great book by any means: the world building seems pretty sketchy (southern desert area that seems quite Arabian, northern area that sounds a bit Scandinavian), and many of the characters and situations seems drawn in rather broad strokes.But the story is an entertaining, fast read, and as it's over 30 years old I'm willing to overlook some situations that may seem rather clichéd now.
Knowing a crazy undertaking when he hears it, Tiger still agrees to Del's proposal.
And that includes its 'unique' cover - which I absolutely adore to tell you the truth - because that is Del. Told solely from the perspective of the arrogant and often narrow-minded (yet oh so lovable) Tiger, Sword-Dancer excels at describing the tricky relationship of Tiger and Del. Both are incredibly strong personalities who are more than capable of taking care of themselves but together they form this crazy partnership that simply works.
I love nothing better than watching strong characters go through the toughest of trials and Sword-Dancer does just that.
Meet Tiger:Now meet Del:Together they embark on a journey across the deadly Punja desert to find Jamail - Del's long lost brother.This is an 80s pulp sword and sorcery novel.
The plot is furthered by characters making stupid decisions and as a result constantly getting captured, which made me wonder how they managed to survive into adulthood.
Also, the protagonist is a sexist jerk, and his companion a special snowflake.Yet I enjoyed watching their relationship evolve and Tiger's character growth.
After reading many fantasy novels with high stakes, I loved the small scale of it.
Some may object to the decidedly sexist content, but it always struck me as the author detailing a fictional culture, not justifying "real life" attitudes.Weak points: There is a bit of repetition, and the novel is fairly short.
Time that passes between action sequences isn't detailed at all, instead being mentioned in passing, so it sometimes seems that one improbable event after another is happening to the two lead characters.
If you don't end up liking the story, you haven't wasted too much of your time.
Del, a Northern, came from a culture that afforded women more freedom, leaving plenty of opportunity for conflict between Tiger and Del. At it's core a revenge story, Del is searching for her younger brother, her last living relative.
She apprenticed to a sword-dancer, and after making very difficult and potentially soul-destroying decisions, blooded her magical sword and headed out in search of her brother.
She hires Tiger, who is skeptical of this beautiful woman carrying a sword, and the two have many adventures, some of which seemed random and didn't move of the story along.
I'd heard that this was a great work of fantasy with lots of swashbuckling and a strong female character.
We've had so many strong female fantasy characters come out in the past 29 years--especially the last 10 or so--that Del just doesn't stand out.
I can see how Del and Tiger's banter about the sexes, plus a few other things made their way to the Wheel of Time, so that was fun to see.
Still, here it just seemed silly (Tiger's inability to take Del seriously was just eye-rolling and seemed a bit forced), whereas in the Wheel of Time is often has at least a thematic soundness to it, even when it is aggravating.
The first sentence describes his thoughts and feelings as Del, also a sword-dancer, enters the cantina where he’s playing with a barmaid and getting drunk.
He knows she is a woman to contend with, and I wanted to see how they would pare each other to the inner core of themselves.
Most of all, they are matched in spirit… in their determination to be true to themselves, even when such integrity takes each of them alone, and then, together, to the brink of death.There are four books in the series.
Examples: Labyrinth, The Wee Free Men, Outside Over There, and any version of the Snow Queen.You can play with the genders and relationship and the nature of what, exactly, happened, to the one in danger, but at its core, it’s a story of someone who will go to the Ends of the Earth, to Hell and Back, for Forever and Day, to rescue the one they love – and that kind of love and dedication is compelling.The fun part of this version of the tale is that the narrator is the smart mouth mercenary the Big Sister character is forced to work with to get anywhere near her brother.
Throughout the series, the main character, Tiger, gradually learns what is means to respect women through learning to respect and love Del. The first person point of view (Tiger) really works in this book because we can follow his logic as he makes mistakes and learns throughout the series by comparing his experiences as a freed slave to Del's perspective on how women are treated.
Sword-Born is the only book in the series that did not work very well, but by that point you are attached enough to stick it out for the next one!
I read this back in September and at that time kind of quit doing reviews. Trying to catch up and at least rate books if I can't remember enough detail to do a review. I just finished the second book and will review it.
I never got around to reading it because every time I read a mainstream heroic fantasy novel written after 1975 written by someone I don't personally know, I feel like I get burned.
I had just finished Roger Zelazny's Roadmarks and I wanted to read another sf-fantasy novel; I found this one and figured I would read the first page.
There's a Middle Eastern flavor to it, with a fairly complicated fantasy cultural system that actually didn't bore me to tears!
(Go figure!)Looking for pure entertainment, I got exactly what I wanted and way more.
Sometimes this reaches the point of absurdity, as when Tiger is jumped by some thieves for no apparent reason and must waste a week recuperating--a series of events that in no way furthers the plot or adds anything to the story, but simply fills up page space.
There's still a surfeit of sword-swinging males in the genre, and it'll be a long time before addressing sexism is unnecessary, but Roberson's handling is just a little too blunt, maybe a little outdated.But the dynamic between Tiger and Del is wonderful.
I noticed that authors often have problems writing a point of view from a character of the opposing sex, but Roberson manages it perfectly, since the story is told from the male protagonist, Tiger.
Unlike other fantasy novels which often introduces a myriad of characters, both main and secondary, Sword Dancer focuses only on the main two, Tiger and Del which I greatly appreciated, as it gave them enough characterization and I didn't had to keep a glossary of the size of the phone book by myself just to remember various names.
I guess this is one of the minor faults of the book: there is too much action.
The world-building is not exactly stellar, and the plot is pretty leaky, but eh, I'm not inclined to think to deeply on those issues with a book like this.
Sometimes you just want to read something relaxing and fun and not think for a while.Only problem was, my fun kept getting interrupted by my desire to repeatedly punch Tiger in the face about once a page.
But SIGH, I've already ranted about that in my review of Prophecy by Ellen Oh.I did enjoy it overall.
I'm just not sure whether I enjoyed it enough to pick up the next in the series.
