https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/18600.Touching_the_Void
Me and Simon decided to climb this one mountain in Peru.
"We are so awesome!" On the way down it started to snow and we decided the best way to continue would be to wiggle-wam across the northeast fizzle-deedle and then jabberjaw down the other thingie.
I thought I was going to die because my leg was broken and it hurt so much!
THE VOICE told me to continue even though my leg was broken.
I made my way slowly back to camp.
It was hard to walk on a broken leg!
I was so tired and thirsty and also my leg was broken!
Joe Simpson had a remarkable experience - totally of his whole making, but nevertheless the way he survived was pretty amazing.
After that, there's a postscript, an epilogue and every other excuse possible to drag the book out.Don't get me wrong, Joe Simpson completed a fantastic journey and survived against all of the odds.
However, there were times when I was ploughing through this book when I would have much preferred to be dragging a broken leg across the 'scree' at the bottom of a mountain and pissing my pants.
One of my absolute favorite books, it transcends the genre.Some readers might be put off by talk of abseils, carabineers and crampons, but this is more than a book about mountaineering, this is a book about being human.
It speaks of mortally, determination, suffering, hope, and friendship.
Joe Simpson conveys what climbing is to reader whom has never be off asphalt, what suffering is to the reader whom has never been off a cushion, and, what friendship is to the lonely.
This book will take you to Andes and back, to the glacier and back, and to hell and back; afterwards you'll be glad you went.
The cocky, confident Joe suddenly has to face the terrorizing prospect of death and he's not ready to leave this earth just yet.Simon Yates is a true friend as he attempts to lower Joe down the mountain.
In desperation he begins to carefully lowers himself deeper into the crevasse as his only chance to survive since he can not face the prospect of a long, slow death.What happens next is one of the most thrilling true-survivor accounts I've ever read marveling at Joe's will to live.
My wife is a mountain guide who has walked in the shadow of Siula Grande many times, leading treks through the Peruvian Andes, and an old friend of mine went to Canada's Yamnuska Mountaineering school to become a guide (I am a dilettante when it comes to paddling and mountaineering, and I've done nothing like Erika and Curtis have, but I do love the extreme sports and have a healthy respect for the conventions that go along with them), and their response to Touching the Void is that the pair of them -- Yates and Simpson -- should have died for their stupidity.
but what really got me about this story, what deeply deeply moved me to a new understanding of human endurance, was not that he climbed the peruvian andes, suffered sub zero temperatures huddled in a dugout snow cave, got frostbitten digits, put his life in his climbing partner's hands, or alternately held his climbing partner's life in his own hands, or that he shattered his knee, got dragged through the snow for 2 days, fell down a crevasse and had to climb out with a mashed leg, dragged himself half delirious and starving for 3 more days across rocky moraines, but...that he did this without taking out his contact lenses.
that must've sucked.
Yes!This is the quintessential survival story, and it is true!In 1985 Joe Simpson and Simon Yates decide to climb the west face of Siula Grande in the Peruvian Andes.
The book focuses on moral issues too.(view spoiler)[A prime one being that Simon cuts the rope between him and Joe, remember Joe is the author, causing Joe to fall into a deep crevasse.
Simon didn't look down that crevasse to check and see if Joe really was dead.
I could NOT exactly picture what it was like in the crevasse as the author described it.
Simon corroborated with Joe in the writing of this book.
Sehingga dihadapkan kepada pilihan yang sangat menyesakkan; ikut terseret ke jurang dan tewas bersama Joe atau memotong tali.
Simon yang menyangka Joe telah tewas kembali ke kemah induk dan terus menerus bergulat dengan perasaan bersalah kalau ia telah membunuh Joe.Setengah dari buku ini adalah sebuah petualangan yang bikin gue geleng-geleng kepala disertai perasaan perut teraduk-aduk dan tulang jadi terasa ngilu.
Gimana perut gak teraduk ama tulang gak ngilu kalo ngebayangin kondisi seperti ini:*jatuh kedalam ceruk es sedalam 30 meter*diserang badai salju dan suhu yang amat dingin*angkle kanan patah, lutut remuk*suara berderak dari kaki yang patah tiap kali terbentur batuDengan kondisi seperti itu, Joe merayap naik, melompat dengan satu kaki sambil menyeret kaki yang patah, merayap menuruni tebing, gletser, morrain.
I used to play another bloke regularly, nice guy - if a bit irascible at times - and, one day, he asked me what I did.
It's not doing too badly."He seemed like an interesting bloke, intelligent, given to philosophising, had seen a bit of the world as a mountain climber, so I thought I'd give it a shot - as much out of politeness as anything.The next time I went to the Broadfield I found myself, once again, playing pool with the bloke.
He knew how lucky he was when he met me, apparently, given he'd cracked it as a writer and I'd hacked away at it and got nowhere.
If I hadn't been reading several other books at the same time, it would have been a one or two day read with its scanty 174 pages.
Joe Simpson and his climbing partner, Simon Yates, are alone on the mountain when disaster strikes and Joe slips, falls and fractures his leg.
Its not that it blew me away, but he stays away from the annoying pitfalls that many memoir writers fall into by sticking closely to his story.
The depth of honesty on both men's part was particularly refreshing even though there were times I wanted to shake Simon for his lack of considerateness towards Joe's injury.
Estos libros de supervivencia en situaciones extremas siempre gustan y enganchan. Solo le sobran algunas páginas y que no fuera tan detallado para ser redondo.
The adventure begins in the Peruvian Andes, where Simpson and his climbing partner Simon Yates attempt to scale the ice shrouded slopes of Siula Grande.
When Simpson falls and breaks his right leg, Yates, in a truly heroic style, attempts to lower his injured partner down the near vertical face of the mountain in a blizzard ...
I must give Simpson credit for never downplaying the difficulties Yates faced, and for confessing, that having found himself in Yates’ position, he too would have cut the rope.
Ma i due non si danno per vinti: Simon lega Joe alla corda e lo fa scivolare lungo il pendio per tutta la durata della corda (una cinquantina di metri), aspetta che Joe si metta in sicurezza, scende a raggiungerlo, ricomincia a calarlo, ecc...
Da questo momento in poi il racconto si sdoppia: da una parte, la discesa di Simon che, oltre che dalle difficoltà tecniche e climatiche è resa ancor più ardua dai sensi di colpa e dal rimorso per aver abbandonato l’amico (da lui creduto morto); dall’altra il racconto di Joe, che invece non è morto nella caduta, e deve affrontare da solo e gravemente ferito la discesa fino al campo base, unica possibilità di salvezza.
He expected Yates to leave him, but Yates stayed and lowered his mate down the mountain, 300 painstaking feet at a time.Yates would anchor himself in a snow seat, lower Simpson down, and when Simpson tugged on the rope, he would climb down and start the procedure over again.
What happened after this is a testament to how nearly indestructible the human body is and just how stubborn two athletes at the top of their games can be.At one time Tom Cruise was in line to play Joe Simpson in a movie version of Touching the Void.
And two climbers are hanging by their fingertips and boot toes but lashed together with a single strand of nylon rope and a few pitons hammered into the rock.
They are in a dire position, and their situation seems impossible to get out of.
The decisions they are required to make are a huge gamble and a life-threatening risk.How Joe Simpson and Simon Yates made it off that mountain in the Andes is an incredible journey worth reading.
This is Simpson's firsthand account of these events, and he is as good a writer as he is a mountain climber.
This is a story which asks you so many questions of yourself. What would you have done? How much inner strength do you have? Physical strength is only one aspect of survival. Could I forgive someone who left me to die? Could I leave someone to die? I read this before I saw the excellent film but I don't think it would matter which way round you met this amazing story.
http://mariesbookgarden.blogspot.com/...My husband went to prep school with Joe Simpson in England (although Simpson's a few years older than him), so I've wanted to read this book for some time.Joe Simpson and his climbing partner, Simon Yates, climbed a mountain peak in the Andes--the 21,000-foot Siula Grande.
Joe writes from Simon's perspective as well (in italics), giving us a more complete picture of what was happening in both men's minds.I woke up at night thinking about this book--it will stick with me for a very long time.
Dengan kecepatan yang menyedihkan dalam kondisi cuaca yang menyeramkan, mereka berdua menyusuri jalur yang terjal dan berbahaya, penuh salju yang rapuh dan tidak terduga.Saat Joe mengalami kecelakaan terjatuh ke jurang dan mengalami patah kaki, (maaf ini bukan spoiler karena memang ada di cover belakang :D), yang merupakan vonis fatal (baca:kematian) bagi para pendaki, Joe merasakan penyesalan karena merasa akan menjadi beban bagi Simon, sementara Simon, antara iba dan berat hati mau tidak mau harus menolong rekan sependakiannya.
Saat terjatuh, mereka berdua masih saling terikat pada tali di masing-masing tubuh, yang menyebabkan Simon ikut tertarik ke arah Joe. Dalam kondisi badai salju dan lawina (longsorang bola salju), kelelahan dan frostbite parah, tentu saja Simon tak akan sanggup lama menahan berat tubuh Joe, apalagi menolongnya.
If you are looking for a great book about rock climbing/mountaineering, or a book about beating the odds, or a book that is just going to make you squirm in sympathetic pain, then this is the book for you.
The sentence structure can become slightly repetitive, and there were times I had difficulty discerning whether it was Joe or Simon speaking.Simpson also states in one of the three (or four?) epilogues that the only mistake he and Simon made was that they didn’t bring enough gas for their down trip.
Suddenly, as Simon is lowering Joe into the mists, all of Joe's weight pulls the rope taught.
After several minutes, with no release of weight and his own position in serious danger, Simon makes the painful decision to cut the rope on his partner.
When Simon cuts the rope, Joe falls into an ice-crevasse a hundred feet below him.
Joe, having survived the fall, must call upon every physical, mental, emotional, and spiritual reserve within him as he struggles to get down the mountain and back to base camp before it breaks.
Ok, even though the reader knows how it ends: as one of the mountaineers wrote this book, it’s incredibly suspenseful.
I do seem to adore mountain climbing books, although it’s a totally vicarious experience as you could never get me on one of these expeditions.
Especially this one as their method was different than all the other accounts I’ve read of mountain climbers.
On the one hand I felt infuriated with these 2 men for taking such huge risks, but their story is unbelievably riveting and well told and I appreciated the honesty with which it was told as well.
The thing is, it seems impossible that either one, especially the author, could survive what happened to them.
I started the book with a deep-seated feeling that all mountain climbers must have a death wish.
(We should all be so open minded to see that winning even the smallest victory in life gives us confidence to fight our next battle.) For Joe and Simon the "void" was the black abyss high on a mountaintop, the uncertainty of what you can't see or feel and no resources other than yourself with which to fight the unknown.
I started by thinking all mountain climbers had a death with - trying to find that one mountain that would beat them.
His friend Simon Yates does everything possible to help Joe down the mountain, but Joe falls into a crevasse and after hours holding onto the mountaineering rope, and in danger of falling himself, Simon cuts the rope and leaves Joe, believing him to be dead.
The book openly discusses the risks and the mistakes that led to the crises (plural intentional) and the ethical questions of cutting the rope and leaving one’s partner on the mountain.
I think the movie would be an excellent jumping off point for a discussion with mid to older teenagers of taking risk, assessing danger, achieving goals and the ethics of ones actions.
This is the second time I have read Joe Simpson's Touching the Void.
Of course, high adventurers like them wouldn't normally reclimb the same mountain and probably would advise against rereading Joe's narrative again.
Climb every mountain.Joe didn't seem grounded in society, in life, or in religion.
I was too tired to care."Me too.It was all pride: "They'd never know we did it."This self-centeredness I think is characterized in the narrative style, which was mostly descriptive and not emotive.
And I initially wanted to say this book was also inspiring because "indomitable will to live," "when you're going through hell keep going," etc., but really, it was just painful.
And then I read stories like this and I'm not so sure.
I mean, maybe the only meaning we have anywhere is the meaning we give things since we are the meaning-making monkeys, but those elevations are places we just were not made to live (nor was anything else, really).
They are alien and brutal and just completely unconcerned with our insignificant little lives.
Maybe I'll keep my mountaineering under 15,000 ft....
It is the account of author Joe Simpson's survival after breaking his leg descending 21,000 foot Siula Grande with his climbing partner, Simon Yates.
With zero visibility, no communication and exhaustion setting in after a grueling descent with no food or water remaining, Yates cuts the rope to save himself and leaves the mountain struggling with guilt but believing Simpson is dead.
With only ingenuity, incredible fortitude, grit-your-teeth-and-bear-it determination, and a voice in his head that commanded him to keep moving, Simpson endures the pain of his injuries for three days as he crawls and hops the remaining six miles back to base camp, arriving only hours before his companions were prepared to leave.
Een verhaal over bergbeklimmen en de ontberingen die ze moeten doorstaan.
Een verhaal over de dood in de ogen en onmacht, maar vooral over doorzettingsvermogen en overleven.
Ik kan er niet veel over vertellen omdat ik geen spoilers kwijt wil.
Maar het boek zegt voor mij genoeg.
Je leeft mee, voelt mee en persoonlijk wil ik nu niet meer bergbeklimmen.
Ik heb lang over het boek gedaan, niet omdat het slecht was.
Juist omdat ik het een mooi verhaal vond.
Maar ik las langzaam omdat ik me niet goed kon concentreren en omdat ik het boek in het OV naar/van mijn werk las.
The mountains one climb for fun, and the mountains one climbs because of the peer pressure because they are ‘a classic.’ The same applies to books about mountaineering.
This book belongs to the second category: one reads it because it’s a classic.The story is very predictable, especially if you have had climbing friends talking about it.
Having said that, if you are a mountaineer, it’s not a complete waste of time.
I really enjoyed this book. It wouldn’t make you want to climb any snow capped mountains any time soon!!
As the author and, in fairness, the one with the larger obstacles, the majority of this second part of the book focuses on Joe Simpson as his battle for survival against the odds.Unfortunately, although it’s an amazing story, it’s not one that’s terribly well told.
It feels as if this book might have been a chance to bring mountaineering to a wider audience, but it is an opportunity missed as the language used could be beyond the understanding of that audience, much as it was beyond mine.The second part, the descent, is better in terms of the language, but the emotional distance I felt from the events described was greater.
