https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/45337.Night_Has_a_Thousand_Eyes
And why does she fear the stars in the night sky?
His descriptions of competing light and darkness add to the thick atmosphere, and the tortured physical poses his characters always seem to find themselves in create a sense of unease and agony.The remainder of the book alternates between the protagonists' long, dark night of the soul and a police procedural that hums along nicely.
Woolrich keeps the reader guessing right up to the end: are his characters trapped by inhuman, unchangeable Fate or merely the victims of an elaborate con game?
And once fear has them all in its grasp, does it even matter anymore?
There are parts of this book that sparkle just like the title but there are other places that it slows down mostly in the police investigation sections when the main protagonist, police officer Tom Shawn, isn’t involved.
The first 30% of the book is bang on, a real page turner; vintage Film Noir.
As often with Film Noir the themes are fate, the occult and the inevitability of a horrible death.
I’m not sure how this book would have read to contemporaries (1945) but from a modern view point there are parts that seem very farfetched.
On the cover of my Dell paperback edition of "Night Has a Thousand Eyes" (with a cover price of 25 cents), the author is listed as William Irish, with an asterisk next to the name.
Shawn and a squad of detectives investigate this death prediction, and try to avert the millionaire businessman from meeting his ordained end at the stroke of midnight "at the jaws of a lion." The reader will never guess how things turn out, or how Harlan Reid eventually winds up.
But upon finishing the novel, the reader will inevitably realize that the characters in "Night Has a Thousand Eyes" have no free will at all.
The characters of 'Night Has a Thousand Eyes' are depressing, self serving, and in need of misery for company.
Jean, and the police, are equally helpless to intervene.Jerry Tompkins whose gift outweighs his nondescript appearance “just a farm boy, a lifelong misfit, embittered by the burden of something he wasn’t equipped to cope with.” is a mere cameo to the Reid's and adds little despite the prophetic plot bestowed upon him.
My interpretation of the mood and the delivery by which Woolrich depicts the contrasting and at time conflicting emotions were the highlight of the novel.Despite best intentions, the novel was always going to head in one direction.
There were a few suspenseful moments that crossed over into supernatural horror territory, which I liked, and the exploration of free will vs.
determinism was interesting, but it wasn't enough to save this from being a slow-going, laborious read, which is the last thing I'm looking for in a noir novel.
I do wish that more writers of the 40s and 50s had been willing to combine noir or hardboiled elements with horror (the underrated John Franklin Bardin is the only one I can think of), as I'd like to read more in this vein, even if this one wasn't entirely successful for me.3.0 Stars
Night of a Thousand EyesBy Cornell WoolrichNarrated by Angela BrazilPublished by Blackstone Audio, Inc., 2012Classic Noir GenreWritten in the 1930’s3 StarsA young woman is preparing to leap to her death.
A police detective, on his way home, sees her, rescues her and spends the rest of the night talking to her, trying to understand why such a beautiful woman, in her 20’s and obviously wealthy, would want to end her life.
The predictions of various natures are told, some favorable, until the ultimate fortune is told no one wants to be hear: the date and time of someone’s death.
Perché durante la notte tutto appare pericoloso e oscuro?A tali domande cerca di dare risposta la squadra investigativa che decide di smascherare quella che sembra essere una sensazionale truffa ai danni di un uomo molto ricco e della sua famiglia.
La sua storia è così assurda ed inverosimile che lui, da poliziotto, non può fare a meno di volerne dimostrare l'insensatezza.
È così che inizia la storia tra la donna, che si voleva suicidare, perché aveva paura delle stelle, e l'uomo che le amava a tal punto da volerne dimostrare la purezza e lo splendore.
She has learned through one of her housekeepers that the prophet has predicted that her father will die on a specific date and time – ravaged by a lion.
He soon gets involved with the prophet and the people around him in an effort to convince her father that all of the prophesies are untrue.
Unfortunately, many (actually, all) of the minor prophesies about her father turn out to occur, just as predicted.
Racing against time, the detective and the daughter must find a way to debunk the prophet and bring her father back to the world of the sane.
What’s great about the novel is, as usual, Woolrich’s intense descriptiveness; a sense of despair and terror comes alive through his moody prose and in particular the titular metaphor of twinkling stars of night as piercing eyes that watch these characters like pawns in a giant tableau in which they are helpless to escape their destinies.
Written before his two greatest works, Rendezvous in Black and I Married a Dead Man, Night Has 1000 Eyes feels like a slightly experimental novel, as its structure begins with a long, descriptive first-person flashback that later shifts to a series of briefer third-person snippets from the present.
Both the plot, the usual Woolrich tangle of unlikely coincidences, and the behavior of the characters need too strong a dose of unbelief to hold water.
The fact that after all the trouble the protagonists go to in other avenues to prevent Reid's early demise, the other obvious ones that haven't already been removed stretches the reader's credulity.The apparently clairvoyant Thompkins, even given his short stage time, remains the most enigmatic and interesting character in the novel.
This novel did have a very cinematic feel and I highly recommend the movie based on it.Not characteristic of Woolrich's better work which is usually as weird but not so drawn out, these being more akin to more tightly plotted short shocks.
I've loved Woolrich for decades.
Then I found several of his books at a used book store and I loved his work right away.Woolrich was not always the greatest writer...
Before there was film noir, there was the "roman noir," French for Black Novel, and those were named as such because of Woolrich's use of the word "Black: in he titles of his best novels: The Bride Wore Black, The Black Angel, The Black Curtain.Night Has a Thousand Eyes is a superb noir novel, filled with Woolrich's amazing sense of doomed predestination.If you love noir like I do, this is one of the touchstone source novels.
This book was an odd little story. It started off so strong. I was hooked. I enjoyed the plight of the characters. But somewhere in the middle the momentum stalled and then the rambling began. I was wondering what happened. I wish the initial momentum could have been sustained. I still wanted to see how things got wrapped up. It was predictable, but still an interesting read.
A fascinating and beautifully written story about fate, paranoia and fear of death that features some truly cinematic imagery. What struck me in particular is Woolrich's masterful ability to communicate a character's state of mind through spot-on descriptions of body language.
This is my second go with Woolrich (after 'Rendezvous in Black') and I suspect what Raymond Chandler said of him may be true: "He's the best idea man in the business." But it also seems to me that, to appreciate Woolrich to the fullest, you must be willing to go the full length of the eccentricity expressed as he displays his ideas - and humor him in his writing.
(Ultimately he is - especially at the conclusion - but the way there can sometimes be irksome.) Woolrich has been criticized for his writing style - but it's best to remind yourself that he deals in heightened realities.
Starts off tremendously well, but once the direction of the plot is established it mostly just spins its wheels and spends a ridiculous amount of time describing the spinning.
Dramatically it makes no sense for anything to really happen before a certain time of a certain day so there is virtually no suspense.
There is some nice noir-ish depiction of predestination vs free will and of someone giving up the will to live once informed that he is to die, but too much time is given over to irrelevant detail, especially during the police's attempts to get to the bottom of things.
It is fate and dread and despair in the night, beneath the unblinking stars.
Woolrich practically invented this style, and this book is one of his finest creations.Arguably included with Dashiell Hammett, James M.
This despite the fact that more film noir screenplays were adapted from Woolrich novels and short stories than from any other crime novelist.
Opinions differ on whether Woolrich's greatest strength was his plotting or his style, but there is no denying that in addition to setting an extended scene, he could turn a phrase.
i cavalli della morte trottavano verso il palo.Inquietante e ossessionante per chi legge proprio come per il protagonista di questa particolare vicenda - Harlan Reid - diventa un'ossessione il tempo; come rimanere, infatti, impassibili di fronte ad un uomo che è in grado di predire l'ora esatta della morte di un altro individuo che avverrà a mezzanotte di un giorno ben predefinito?Supponiamo che il nostro Harlan creda fermamente a ciò che il veggente Tompkins gli ha predetto; allora, vien da chiedersi: come si preparerà all'appuntamento con la morte?
Il tempo che scorre, inesorabile...la fa da padrone e contribuisce a mantenere il lettore "in agitazione" e ben incollato sino all'ultima pagina :P!Già adoro Woolrich e non vedo l'ora di leggere un altro romanzo di questo grande scrittore ^-^!
I have not read much thriller/noir, butI have a sense of Woolrich as progenitor of many conventions.Many think he is too wordy - but it does add to suspense in some places, and poetry in others.
The plot, such as it is, falls a little when not focused on main characters.I wish Hitch would have had a shot at filming this - I heard the film does not do this book justice.
It's interesting to note how filmed Woolrich is - with Rear Window the most famous film from his work.I plan to read more of Woolrich's highlight noir novels.
I loved the beginning of this book. The first chapter and the second chapter (a flashback which takes up over 1/3 of the book) are atmospheric and intriguing. The problem lies in the drawn-out, overwritten latter part of the book. Almost all of the tedious police procedural sections could have been edited out.
Outside of the very intense determinism of the book--this is literary Naturalism at its most Pulp wildness--the thing to read this book for is the absolutely gorgeous prose. Woolrich is an absolutely visual thinker, and he paints dark, dark, Hopperesque pictures in words that will blow your mind. Wonderful novel.
I now see that Cornell Woolrich's writing tends to teeter between clunky and sublime. This book is no exception. The supernatural element stands out from the other Woolrich I've read.
Excellent, atmospheric noir novel by the screenwriter of Tourneur's The Leopard Man and Hitchcock's Rear Window.
She tells Shawn she’s afraid of the stars twinkling above, so they make their way to a deserted restaurant where Shawn persuades her to tell her story.Night has a Thousand EyesShe begins rambling on about “darkness and fear and pain and doom and death.” As she begins to settle down and explain, she soon outlines the theme of the book saying, “…God permits us to look backward, but God has forbidden us to look forward.
He also published under the name William Irish.Meanwhile, back at the Thousand Eyes, the race against time that Shawn and other detectives embark on is typical of Woolrich thrillers and as Nevins says in the introduction, imminent death and the ticking of the clock are as central to this book as any Woolrich novel.
As a big fan of Chandler and Cain, I expected to enjoy this book. Instead, I found the florid writing distracting and the plot just a little too ridiculous. Rather than pulling me in, I found the plot and characters repelling me.
"Cornell Woolrich's novels define the essence of noir nihilism." ~ Marilyn Stasio, The New York Times Book Review Night Has a Thousand Eyes was published in 1945, under one of Woolrich’s noms de plume, George Hopley.
One of Cornell Woolrich's most famous novels, this classic noir tale is arguably the author's best in its depiction of a doomed vision of fate and free will.
The outcome could have been the result of predestination or free will; the reader can decide.I became impatient at times with the writing; Woolrich’s prose can be quite overextended and contains too many literary effects.
It’s likely that Woolrich published this book in 1945 under the name George Hopley in order that readers would come to the novel without expecting the kind of story that would be written by Cornell Woolrich or William Irish, CW’s other nom de plume.
In this book, although there are multiple narrative threads they all contribute to the building suspense of the main plot, making this the most successfully structured novel by Woolrich I’ve read so far.
Although I was not entirely satisfied with Woolrich’s resolution of the various plot threads, there is enough atmosphere and well-constructed, well-written scenes here to make the experience very much worthwhile.
Strange plot. ©1945 no gore, profanity or sexual situations. Romance. Well narrated.
Qua cuốn sách này, ta mới thấy rõ được ngòi bút tài hoa của Cornell Woolrich, nếu ông không viết trinh thám đen mà chú trọng vào những dòng văn học chính thống hơn, hẳn tên tuổi ông sẽ được lưu danh cùng các tác giả kinh điển.
Tuy Đêm ngàn mắt được xây dựng xuất sắc trên nhiều phương diện, nhưng giống như Ám ảnh đen, mình vẫn có cảm giác truyện vẫn hơi bị thừa, giá tác giả viết gọn lại một chút thì hay hơn.
This is the first time I've read him (he writes under multiple pseudonyms, including "William Irish" and "George Hopley").The premise of a con man/clairvoyant, a wealthy man and his pampered adult daughter who get caught up in his trap is a brilliant concept.
I was tempted to quit reading at the beginning when the daughter Jean is at her wit's end (literally) and meets Shawn.
By the end of that section I didn't care which, just wanted it to be over."The Telling" where Jean relates details of her father and the con man, there was the writing Woolrich fans rave about, although imo it was still too wordy.The second half was drama, drama and more drama, and I really didn't care.
I thought Woolrich did a good job building suspense especially in the first part of the book.
What works to create an atmosphere of doom early in the novel falls flat as page after page of a dinner or following a suspect or a parlor game creates less suspense than it does boredom.
The characterizations, especially of the detective Shawn, were odd as well -- out of place is the best I could describe it.I would have given it one more star except that the ending left me flat.
Not a good payoff IMHO.
