https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6418.Thanksgiving
This one is a fairly quick read that I would warn contains a very fast paced connection between the characters so if insta-love is not your thing you may want to avoid this one.In the story Megan Murphy finds Dr. Patrick Hunter’s pet rabbit running wild and is of course upset at his carelessness with his pet so intends to give him a piece of her mind when returning the rabbit.
However, I can’t say I completely loved this one with it’s fast pace and Megan being a bit too over the top for me.
Janet, you've done it again! A light hearted romantic romp with a crazy family, slippery turkey, pregnant horse and a rabbit, all set to Thanksgiving in a reenactment village. Tons of fun for a quick read while the turkey cooks.Ok, I’ve reread it again (2017) and I still love it. Even though I wanted to smack the hero upside the head a few times and shake the heroine, (I may sound a bit violent, sorry) it’s still a fun romantic romp. 😊
Thanksgiving is a pre-Plum romance by popular American author, Janet Evanovich. Megan Murphy is a potter who supplements her income dressed in period costume in her xx town. When she rescues a floppy-eared rabbit with strange appetites, its owner, paediatrician Patrick Hunter is entranced by this quirky redhead. But despite the attraction between them, neither wants to get involved: Megan is thrice-bitten and therefore involvement-shy; Pat is in no position to support a wife or the children he would love to eventually have. Sweet, sexy and funny, but just a touch too drawn out.
I don't know how I forced myself to finish this book. Megan was the worst protagonist I've read in an adult novel, okay Anastasia(FSoG) is #1 but Megan is #2. She acted like a whiny preteen. Pat was just as bad. None of the characters were likable, I was sitting, waiting the story to get better but it never did. This really has me worried about Evanovich's other works, I'm not sure I want to read them if they're anything like this book.
This was an oldie but a goodie, pre Stephanie Plum romance by Janet Evanovich.
It takes place in Williamsburg, VA.
When Megan rescues Pat's floppy-eared rabbit, they end up in his house together.
The two of them become quite close while taking care of Timmy.
They actually become very enamoured of one another and fall in love, although they do not want to admit it.
Although they are in love, neither of them is ready to get married.
I love the humor that Evanovich always uses in her books.
I got it all in "Thanksgiving".
This is a short, sweet romance about two people who smack up against each other and fall in love at a time when neither is ready for it.Megan Murphy has a very cynical view of engagements and weddings, she has had two and neither made it to the real marriage.
What follows is a wonderful, warm story of Megan and Dr. Patrick Hunter, a baby boy and a traditional family Thanksgiving.
Along the way Megan decides that maybe marriage to the handsome doctor might be something to pursue and Pat realizes that even with all the demands of a new doctor, he needs Megan.
Although there were several typos in this book I still enjoyed it. It was a short fun holiday read.
Simple, quick, and cheesy.
Add in the fact that it features a couple meeting like a week before Thanksgiving, discussing marriage like three days later because their parents unexpectedly turn up, and then deciding to get married on Christmas Eve, and I was headed to Nope Town.
Add in a world of weird possessive bullshit and pretty dubious consent, and I'm definitely going to be getting rid of this one.
It would have been one star territory if it weren't for the fact that there were a couple of scenes that made me snort laugh.
I really like the Stephanie Plum series so thought I would give this book a try. I thought this one was very hokey and predictiable. Had I not been stuck in my car listening to it on CD, I wouldn't have finished it. It was painful.
A chance encounter puts her in the company of Dr. Patrick Hunter, the town's new pediatrician.
(That would be the romantic literary device of "putting the main characters into an improbable situation that forces them to remain in each others' company.") It pains me to give Janet Evanovich so few stars.
I love the Stephanie Plum series.
This book was written back in 1988, before the Stephanie Plum series began, and is a reprint.
The whole thing is pretty ridiculous, from the childish behavior of the characters (and their parents) to their shared moment in a barn.
A friend was donating her copy to a used book sale that she and I were working so I told her I would read it since I missed it last year.The young woman and man in the love story meet cute, immediately fall in lust, and within a couple of days he asks her to marry him.
The next time I see my friend, I am definitely going to ask her!Several years ago I started reading Evanovich's Stephanie Plum series.
I understand from friends who are still reading the series that Stephanie still can't choose between Ranger and Joe. This is definitely my last Evanovich book!
This is a fun, light-weight, easy read.
I loved the fact that it was set in Colonial Williamsburg, which is a wonderful place to visit.
Since I'd been there, I could envision what was going on in the story with greater clarity than most books I've read.
the story itself is nothing exciting or new, and the interaction with the baby, as in any of her books, doesn't seem very realistic.
but it's a cute thing to read when you don't want to think too hard and want to have that warm and fuzzy feeling when you're finished with it.
Take it to the beach, or to Colonial Williamsburg!
This was a good quick read. It is also the first book I have read by Janet. I really liked how the characters connected and jumped right in to take care of the baby. I loved the pretend family. I was a little frustrated with Pat and that he would not just hurry up and marry Meg. I liked the ending of the book as well.
I never thought that Megan or Pat needed something to "help them" come together, they were both clearly lusting after the other upon first meeting.
Not to mention, you need to consider Pat into all this, especially if you're insisting he be the father of said child.There isn't a lot of drama in this book.
What sounds like a major plot point (as mentioned on the back of the book) are Megan and Pat's families joining the two of them for Thanksgiving, and thinking they are engaged, and we get the whole "fake/mistaken engagement" trope.
That ends the positives.A character who is supposed to be a pediatrician brings a walker for a baby?
Hello - consumer child protection commission calling - shouldn't he know that they are deadly?A woman who supposedly supports herself making pottery begins work in November for the Christmas season???
Her mother says nothing either.A character laughs off her mother and beau's mother planning her wedding before anyone has proposed .
That would be self aware, self confident, boundary appropriate.Main character wishes love interest would propose marriage so that she could turn him down.
The main characters Pat and Megan, are thrown together to care for a baby, Timmy, as the story opens.
Anyway, one of Pat's patients, he's a pediatrician, drops her baby by his house (out of the blue) to keep for a couple of weeks!
Megan happens to be returning his rabbit that she found wondering in the street and agrees to help him with the baby.
These two have just met and are now caring for a baby together!
So odd ...Parents of both Pat and Megan get involved in their strange relationship when they come for Thanksgiving, as does an ex-fiancé of Megan.
I finished this book a little before midnight last night. Toward the end it gets funnier and funnier so that I was laughing out loud. So many of her books are very funny! I needed this book so thanks Carol for alerting me to it.
Sure we all have parenting capabilities but I feel like stories like this do a great disservice to those who have chosen a life without children; it feeds into the popular belief that if only this situation were forced onto a woman who doesn't want children that soon she will become googly eyed and motherly.
Ultimately, there are ways to convey someone feeling reserved about starting a relationship and someone who wants to pursue this someone without a lot of unwanted touches and demanding talk.
I make two commutes these days, so I decided to try listening to audio books as a way to distract me on the boring often-slow drive into work.
Here are just some of my complaints (and I made it just shy of finishing the second CD so I was just about at the halfway mark when I called it quits):1.
The inner monologues by both Patrick and Megan were ridiculous.
After a day, he thinks he's falling in love with Megan.
At one point, Megan goes upstairs to get something and then accidentally falls asleep (because she's not actually a grown up, and and she can't stay awake at 530am apparently).
Having just met the small town of Williamsburg’s new pediatrician (Dr. Patrick Hunter) with the corky sense of humor, Megan Murphy was stunned that a young girl would assume she was his wife and drop a baby (Timmy) off.
The more he thought about it, her realized that he was not in the position to take a wife, and child on, no matter what his or her parents thought of the idea during their joint Thanksgiving Day. She had already turned his joking proposals down, maybe she was right but Patrick could not let her ex have her back.Janet Evanovich has a way of making it all so much fun.
If it doesn't make you laugh, it will definitely make you smile.Dr. Hunter's pet rabbit keeps escaping and wandering around Williamsburg.
Of course, the rabbit just loves to nibble on Megan Murphy's clothing.
Megan is convinced that Dr. Hunter is an irresponsible pet owner and is irritated with him.
Megan finally tells him that she has sworn off men and that she just wants to be friends.
He tells her he doesn't want to be friend but lovers instead.
I would recommend this book to all the romance lovers out there.
I think this is only the second book I've read by Evanovich, and I'm not totally sure what all the hype is about.
Once you realize that most of this book takes place over the course of about a fortnight, you start to realize just how ridiculous the story is.
Within these two weeks, the main characters meet, are given a baby, kiss, "fall in love", sleep together, pretend to be married, have family over for Thanksgiving, plan/not plan on getting married, lose the baby, try to get pregnant, fight, and make up.
In the course of two weeks!
I had to suspend about a couple tons of disbelief to swallow the premise that an MD who was handed a stray baby would not call social services.
I understood that it was necessary for the plot that this man and this woman care for the baby themselves because it will draw them together, but the doctor would at least have filed a report or something.
I was only able to tolerate it by viewing it as an old comic movie, maybe with a Katherine Hepburn type as the fiery redhead, and maybe with a Jimmy Stewart type as the goofy, adorable doctor.
3.5 starsI liked it, in the way that I occasionally like to watch Hallmark movies because they are light and cheesy and they make me smile.
This is, by no means, a literary classic, but I was in the mood for something lighter to read.
Megan and Pat had me laughing with their antics, although I will admit that I did start to get frustrated wondering if they were ever going to get together.
Also, just a random sidenote, I HATE the name "Pat" for a male lead in a romance novel.
Overall, nothing too serious, but just what I needed to break my reading slump.
Right around Halloween I like to look for holiday themed books.I found this one on a list.Megan and Pat meet when Pats rabbit chews a hole through her skirt. They live in Williamsburg, VA.Everything about this book is absurd. I'm supposed to believe a pediatrician would simply take a baby left in his care without calling authorities. I'm also supposed to believe a woman's maternal instincts suddenly go into overdrive just being around said abandoned baby.I chuckled a bit but all of the outrageous over the top situations were not enough to keep my attention.
This book fulfills requirement #3 - Romantic Comedy for the 2014 eclectic reader challenge.Once again Janet Evanovich delivers the laughs. This romance is set at colonial Williamsburg. Megan works part time for the historical village and she finds a rabbit that chews on her costume skirt. The rabbit belongs to a pediatrician with a weird sense of humor. It is obvious that these two are destined to get together. BUT there are many obstacles in the way and the craziness ensues...
This romance sails right past madcap in manic. It is a ton of fun set in Colonial Williamsburg with a just out of med school Dr, a bunny, a baby, jalopies, and a redheaded potter. Phew.I read a lo t of Janet Evanovich before the Stephanie Plum series and it is always a pleasure to revisit her category romances. The sex is there but beyond closed door and towards the end the hero is just kind of a twit. It feels like the book ran out of breath but a good time is had by all.
This was another one of JE's older books. It was a cute, fast, and fun read. It is always interesting to me to see how the writing style of an author matures and grows. In this book her wonderful sense of humor and love for food is a great element which she includes in her current novels.
Honestly one of my all time favorite "smut" novels...just absolutely hilarious. I remember I was lying on my side reading it and had to sit up b/c I was laughing so hard. Ms. Evanovich signed my copy at a book signing back in the 90s at Waldenbooks at Mongtomery Mall. That was pretty cool.
