https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/353435.Education_and_the_Significance_of_Life
Anyone with even one philosophical "bone" in their body should read this book. He ponders the deepest questions of life-our purpose and future; better still he offers workable solutions. This book guided me on the path to becoming a teacher. Its quite revealing; you have to read it with an open mind.
I genuinely enjoyed the journey of reading this book by this great intellect Krishnamurti.The book talks about the significance of life and education which is obvious as it's the title of the book.
It emphasizes on the fact that we mustn't just focus on education as a mean for livelihood and way to learn certain techniques .
And to raise our kids with these fundamental meanings , to teach them to understand life fully and be integrated , not to be just skilled technicians.
Choosing the right educators for them , those who are passionate , genuine and integrated in the process of teaching .
This is one of the first books that I had read on REAL EDUCATION...
It is a state of tranquility in which there is reality, God; but that creative state can come into being only when there is self-knowledge and freedom.
Fear dulls the mind and heart so that we are not alert to the whole significance of life; we become insensitive to our own sorrows, to the movement of the birds, to the smiles and miseries of others." (57)"Intelligence is not separate from love." (63)"Wisdom is not marketable, it is not a merchandise that can be bought with the price of learning or discipline." (64)"A man who merely imparts information with the world crashing about him is not an educator." (96)"The moment one asks 'how,' one is confronted with insurmountable difficulties, and the teacher who is eager to dedicate his life to education will never ask this question, for he knows that there is no method by which one can become the right kind of educator.
The primary premise of the book is that nearly all of the education system (govt.
These systems educate children to be good at techniques or skills, but do not educate them to know themselves.Without knowledge of oneself, children will grow to be conflicted between the reality of their true nature, and the constrictions of conforming to civil society or religious doctrine.An educational system that truly sought to benefit the children would be staffed by adults who were continually studying themselves, and striving to deepen their own awareness, not just conformists seeking the safety of job, income and leisure.
i highly recommend this book....be careful though because you might quit your job, school, relationship, or abandon your belief system.
9. EDUCAȚIA în adevăratul sens al cuvântului constă în a înțelege copilul așa cum este el, fără a-i impune idealul a ceea ce credem noi că el ar trebui să fie.
Cultivarea respectului pentru altul este un element esențial al educației, dar dacă educatorul nu posedă el însuși această calitate, nu-și poate ajuta elevii să ajungă la o viață.
Este deci evident ca cei care sunt profund interesaţi de această problemă vor trebui să înceapă prima se înțelege pe ei însuși și prin asta să ajute la transformarea celorlalți.
It is hard to see how this model of education will gain momentum when the world is competitor, one needs an education to be employed and the markets focus on efficiency, scale and lowering unit cost.This book raises important questions in what an education means and what we want out of it; these are inspired ideas to incorporate into one's life and their children's life, however it is difficult to see its broader application
To quote JK (Jiddu Krishnamurthi): "Conventional education makes independent thinking difficult."JK stresses the fact that conventional education lays more stress on knowledge maximization and not on imagination/creative thinking. He comes down harshly on the drawbacks of conventional education system which for some reason or the other we find it difficult to do away with. He does suggest some alternative, which too we find it difficult to practice becuase of our own inertia to break free from the conventional system of education.
The ideas in this book are a ten - absolutely wonderful and needed as much, if not more, today as ever. The writing style is a little more difficult, hence I'm giving it a 4 rather than 5, but I probably shouldn't. If every child were taught this way by teachers as Krishnamurti describes, the world would be a different place.
One of my favorite thinkers to read even if I don't always agree with everything he says. This one though, seemed a bit too repetitive and the solutions he suggests have no realistic bearing in real life.
Ние произвеждаме като по калъп един тип човешки същества, чийто главен интерес е да постигнат сигурност в живота, да станат важни личности и да се забавляват – като мислят колкото може по-малко.Съвременното образование е пълен провал, защото набляга прекалено много на техническите умения.
Ние не сме щастливи, жизнени, радостни хора...Преди да се заемем да възпитаваме другите, трябва да пречистим сърцата и умовете си.Чувствителността към красотата и грозотата идва не с привързаността, а с любовта, когато няма самосъздадени конфликти.
Творчество има, защото Азът бездейства.Любовта към красотата може да бъде изразена с песен, с усмивка или мълчание, но повечето хора не са склонни да замълчат.
What Henry David Thoreau achieved for the environmentalist movement with Walden, Krishnamurti has achieved for education with this slim volume.
It's short, accurate, truthful and will situate your moral compass to education and schooling so that one will not interfere with the other.


Krishnamurti hace una apología muy interesante de la educación y la cooperación, explica que aprender es actuar y actuar debe ser en favor de un bien mas grande y perenne que el inmediato y egoísta porque así la raza humana sobrevivirá, la cooperación es reflejo del aprender en un sentido verdadero. Yo estudio la cooperación desde el punto de vista matemático y coincido plenamente con su visión que sin ser matemática es 100% correcta por lo que sabemos de teoría de juegos, es un gran libro místico practico!
Krishnamurti stresses self-knowledge and creating an environment free from fear to help create an atmosphere in which real education can take place. In this seminal book he critically examines what is wrong with education as it stands, relating it to society at large and the need for a new and different world order. One of the most compelling and thought-provoking books ever written on education. This philosophy is based upon the insight that no child can be trained in anything that their soul is not ready to receive. Read it with a grain of salt.
"Creativeness is a state of being in which the conflicts and sorrows of the self are absent, a state in which the mind is not caught up in the demands and pursuits of desire." The central theme of this long essay is that the alternate education should aim at self-exploration: free and beyond materialism. I would like to disagree with his idea of education but this is a recommended read to get a critical analysis of existing system and issues associated.
What I like of this book so far is the fact that the educator needs to be a respected person; but not because somebody named him the educator; but because he is an outstanding human being that makes all his students look up at him. This is a very early work of Krishnamurti; and I am reading it out of curiosity; because I think that his later work is more interesting because his ideas in his later works are more elaborated and clearly explained.
The first two chapters are a must on how learning to pursue success is not the same as being educated. The last two chapters take a more radical turn as Krishnamurti starts conceptualizing solutions to the crisis in education. His comments, while valuable, are permanently relegated to the realm of philosophy because there are no connections to organizing such alternatives in the midst of success-minded societies.
I first saw Krishnamurti when I was 14, while recovering from the flu. He was being interviewed for a PBS special and he was talking about his childhood and education. Being 14, much of what he said confused me, but as I mature, his work has became much more meaningful and profound. This volume is my favorite.
Though a bit muddled at times, a book with many great ideas on what education should be. And as a high school English teacher in the US, I can tell you that American education is flying at light speed in the opposite direction of Krishnamurti's beliefs. Kafka, Orwell, and Swift locked in a room for ten years couldn't narrate the profound idiocy of the leading lights of American education.
Ο Κrishnamurti μέσα από αυτό το βιβλίο καταφέρνει να προβληματίσει τον εκπαιδευτικό αλλά και τον γονέα για το ρόλο που πρέπει να έχουν και την στάση που πρέπει να κρατούν απέναντι στα παιδιά!!!Δυστυχώς, μόνο κάποια απ' όλα τα ωραία που προτείνει μπορούν να εφαρμοστούν από τον εκπαιδευτικό με το υπάρχον εκπαιδευτικό σύστημα της Ελλάδας. Οι γονείς όμως μπορούν άνετα να τα εφαρμόσουν όλα!!!
it's a good read of obvious truths. a little heavy on "this should be this way" and "that should be that way" but for the most part, a good many things resonated. definitely more philosophical than "spiritual" per se, but it's a fine line between the two often times anyway.
If you highlight your books, I'll save you the trouble. The whole book deserves highlighting. A groundbreaking work on the role of educators in a world which thrives on conformity rather than individual thought.
Amazing that so little has changed in education since Krishnamurti gave these talks in the 1950's:The system still needs to be reformed.Added insight to my decision to quit my current job teaching high school.
J krishanamurti gave a very good analysis, why our education fails to make a peace around the world and creating more conflict. "Education is not merely acquiring knowledge, gathering and correlating facts; it is to see the significance of life as a whole."
still learning
Some excellent lines passages and insight (it is Krishnamurti, after all), but seemed a convoluted and repetitive read.
