https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/30350.French_Silk
Primer libro del #RetoRita2 #RitaBrown, pero no el primero que leo de una autora que cada vez me gusta más y que para mi es mucho mejor en el suspense romántico que Nora Roberts, de la que he leído casi toda su obra (cuando tu madre es superfan, prácticamente no te queda otra).A través de tramas de suspense bastante enrevesadas, Sandra Brown suele tratar temas de fondo muy profundos y Sedas de Francia no es una excepción.
En esta ocasión, la química entre los protagonistas es muy buena, así como el planteamiento de la historia, con todos esos falsos culpables, pero el desarrollo se me ha hecho largo, he acabado de las ideas y venidas de Claire y Cassidy un poco harta, y -como ocurre en casi todos sus novelas- el desenlace es demasiado rápido.
What just happened? Where is the follow up? How do we find out what happened to you know who? Seriously? Like the city of New Orleans itself, Claire Laurent is a vibrant beauty laced with a mysterious elusiveness. The founder of French Silk, a fabulous lingerie company, she has fought hard to make it a worldwide success. Then a TV evangelist attacks French Silk's erotic sleepwear as sinful. And when he is killed, Claire becomes the prime suspect. District Attorney Robert Cassidy knows Claire is
How do we find out what happened to you know who?
Then a TV evangelist attacks French Silk's erotic sleepwear as sinful.
District Attorney Robert Cassidy knows Claire is damning herself with lie after lie about the murder, even as he feels her drawing him into her world and her very soul.
She inched her way down to his navel and the silky strip of hair below it, then nuzzled htat dark, dense thatch surrounding his sex.
She can write a fairly erotic sex scene, I will give her that.One of her more disappointing books, for me.
3.5 "I Need Closure" Stars!!  When evangelist Jackson Wilde is found naked and murdered in his hotel room, the beautiful and secretive Clare Laurent, owner of the very successful lingerie company French Silk is unfortunately the number one murder suspect as the evangelist has been aggressively targeting her, her sexy lingerie and it’s cataloge in his campaign against smut and pornography. Handsome, ambitious Assistant District Attorney Robert Cassidy is on a mission to get his conviction but he
Handsome, ambitious Assistant District Attorney Robert Cassidy is on a mission to get his conviction but he has his own secrets, and he’s is falling for the mysterious Clare Laurent, he is torn between his duty and wanting to find her innocent (what I can’t figure is why the assistant DA (Cassidy) is so involved in a murder investigation, basically running the whole investigation…is this normal?).
Suelo acertar el 90% de los culpables en los libros de suspense romántico, así que el 10% restante ya tienen una estrella ganada.He de decir que en este caso, lo pensé, pero también creí que era tan tan claro que no podía ser.
A él lo he visto muy real y común, algo que me ha gustado, con un pasado pero sin marcaElla sorprende a veces, pero al final acabas dándole un sentido a ese comportamiento.Una buena novela de suspense romántico, aunque advierto que como he dicho, el romance tiene muy poco peso, aunque sí marca las dudas del potragonista.Reseña completa: http://masromance.blogspot.com.es/201...
Me encantan las novelas que mezclan suspense y romance y Sandra Brown es una especialista en esto. Una vez más, no me ha defraudado. Ganas de leer más cosas de ella.
Tantos con motivos para asesinarlo.Cassidy es el ayudante del fiscal que debe, sí o sí, lograr un triunfo en el tribunal para continuar su carrera.Claire, la principal sospechosa, es la dueña de una empresa de lencería sensual (Sedas de Francia) que es atacada por la congregación del pastor por inmoralidad.El encuentro entre ambos es electrizante.
Todo en la subyugante Nueva Orleans.No le pongo 5 estrellas por algunas cosas que no me convencieron:Primero, está bien que Cassidy está para comérselo pero no me resultó creíble la rendición de Claire aunque la agradezco (sino no sería romántica, ¿verdad?).
Opinión en el blog
I heartily recommend this book for readers who enjoy mysteries based on red herrings rather than actual clues, twists based on shock value rather than character consistency, and totally irrational and often idiotic behaviour in the main characters. Bonus elements include constant head-hopping, a load of melodrama about sin, and multiple uses of the word "moxie," which I thought had died out decades before this book was written.
4/5Me sigue encantando cada libro que leo de esta mujer
The plot points mostly center around the lies told by multiple characters. These lies especially coming from the heroine seem forced and annoying. I do enjoy the mystery that keeps me guessing the whole time, but this long book is also very easy to put down. BTW, the ending is kind of crappy.Note: OW? (view spoiler)[ yes:( (hide spoiler)]
Sandra Brown can do no wrong as far as I'm concerned. This was one of her earlier ones and I did have a few problems with the plot. Would an Assistant DA really spend time socially with a suspect,kiss her and then ask her to admit to murder? Hum.That said it was still a page-turner and I mostly didn't guess how it was going to turn out. I certainly didn't guess the identity of the real culprit, which is usual for me.Not one of her best but still well worth reading and certainly worthy of four stars.
Una trama muy bien desarrollada, unos diálogos excelentes, un caso de asesinato en el que hay distintos personajes que parecen culpables, muy bien construidos. Como siempre me pasa con esta autora, me quedo enganchada con sus novelas.
Reconozco que soy fan de Sandra Brown y que, cuando cojo sus libros, no espero una novela romántica al uso, espero una con su sello, donde haya una intriga lo suficientemente importante y bien llevada que haga que, con una buena tensión sexual y dos refrotes de nada, me quede más que satisfecha en todos los aspectos, y con este libro Sandra Brown lo ha logrado.
Me parece que está todo muy bien hilado, como es habitual en ella, siempre sabes menos que los personajes incluso aunque creas lo contrario.
Y todo esto con el lenguaje nada complaciente que utiliza habitualmente y que a mí me encanta (puede que en otra escritora los personajes sean tan brutos y me indigne pero en los libros de Sandra Brown directamente es lo que espero).
Alta carte superba a unei autoare dragi mie!
Well plotted mystery with a deliciously trashy premise: scheming televangelist is murdered and the beautiful owner of a mail order lingerie company is the prime suspect! The New Orleans locale adds to the sultry, jasmine scented entertainment.
An Assistant District Attorney (for some unknown reason) is the only homicide detective in New Orleans.
His main and only suspect is a very successful entrepreneur (supposedly), but she doesn’t act like it.
It could be the narration that made her sound more like Scarlett O’Hara than a well respected business woman.
There is no romance and there is no suspense, but this is Sandra Brown so there is plenty of sex and dirty talk.
Usually in romantic suspense, the damsel in distress is in danger from a bad guy and the hero swoops in and saves the day.
The discovery of the bad guy was such a letdown.
A wonderful mix of suspense, drama, and romance, with a few story-lines intertwined to create an intricate and complex plot rife with twists and turns to keep the reader at the edge of her/his seat and guessing.Well-paced, wonderful characterization with lovely multi-dimensional and flawed protagonists, mysteries and secrets galore, a wonderful thunderstorm seduction, and nicely executed.
Especially toward the end, when I though I had it all pegged down (and found myself rather disappointed by the transparency of the story).
Absolutely loved the steaming hot sex and the murder mystery that kept me guessing right up to the last few pages. Laughed my ass off at the eye-rolling antics of the over-the-top Born Again villains. Could have done without the nauseating sentimentality about sheltered southern womanhood and the crude racial stereotypes surrounding the childlike, promiscuous, voodoo-worshiping black fashion model. (Who exists just to make the chaste white heroine look even more pure and white!)
Una novela mexicana un poroto al lado de esto 🤣Demasiada ansiedad, no me aguante y fui al final para ver quién era el asesino (llegué hasta la página 100), no me gustó ningún personaje así que me daba lo mismo seguir leyéndolo.
It was that bad.You get that lovely romance where the hero hates the girl and still wants her, so he's completely nasty to her.
He thinks she's a murderer and he still wants to shag her.
Who would fall in love with a guy who thinks they've killed an elderly man in cold blood?
He literally just follows her around and calls her a liar and a murderer before forcing himself on her for kissing, then cursing her and stalking away for five minutes.
He has barely anything to do with the plot and the author never puts the two together in any way.
This was the author trying to be "clever".
Brown does a beautiful job in describing the life, people and culture of this part of new Orleans and its spectacular.The only fault to the plot I could find is that perhaps it was a bit slow to start.
l love the twists in Sandra browns novels and boy was this a good one.
I love how a brown novel can do that to you.
The plot and characters were wonderfully developed although I had a bit if a love hate relationship with Claire because of her unability to argue her innocence, although that is explained later in the book.Ultimately a beautiful written novel with complex characters, an enchanting setting and a gripping plot.
French for its location in the Crescent City; Silk for the fine material comprising the majority of the suggestive garments she designs; together, the name of Claire Laurent’s thriving mail-order lingerie company, half-owned by supermodel Jasmine.
It’s not the sort of book that would ordinarily pique my interest.Claire is the illegitimate child of a rogue a itinerant hustler.
Pour this sauce over a platter of al dente spaghetti (which represents the directions the plot seems to take).
But, the result is a fine dining experience.Normally, I’m fairly adept at assessing the direction a storyline is headed, but I was deceived by the author’s ability to surprise and deceive me.
I don't remember the exact date i finished reading it but i know it was within a day or two of finding it in a box in my parents garage.
Once i finished it i was at the library every few days to see if i could find any more Sandra Brown books.
This book remains one of my favorites, Sandra Brown introduced me to a genre of books i never even knew existed!
Sandra Brown has a genre that's all her own!Once you've read this book, other crime & mystery books will seem like children's books!!!
Muy muy buen libro
French Silk, an upscale lingerie store, is the protagonist‘s business. Although this is an early novel of Brown’s, it is exciting and full of action with an intricate plot. The characters are interesting, too.
speechless
Tapi percayalah di memberikan kisah yang menarik dari French Silk ini.Asisten Jaksa Cassidy galau luar biasa karena semakin banyak bukti yang dia temukan untuk memojokan Claire Laurent sebagai terdakwa utama kasus pembunuhan sadis pendeta karismatik, semakin hati kecilnya ingin menunjuk orang lain sebagai terdakwa.
Momen lucu yang membuat suasana interogasi Claire menjadi tidak menegangkan adalah setiap saat Cassidy datang untuk mengorek-korek informasi, pasti berakhir dengan Claire menyuguhi minuman dan membuatkan makanan.Aku baru bisa bonding dengan karakter Cassidy di sekitar 50 persen cerita.
Tapi saat dia menjelaskan alasan sesungguhnya menjadi asisten jaksa dan meninjau ulang hidupnya termasuk pernikahannya, aku mulai merasakan simpati pada pria ini.Seratus halaman terakhir buku ini benar-benar menghidupkan kisah ini.
Jika saya mengacu pd masa saat ini, penilaian akan bias dan saya rasa jadi tidak relevan juga.Pertama, saya agak merasa author terlalu berlebihan dgn penggambaran korban, pendeta Jackson Wilde yg super fanatik dan cenderung menghakimi siapapun yg dia tidak sukai.
Kedua, beberapa scene menurut saya too much drama, hubungan cinta Claire & Cassidy bak sinetron telenovela cinta terlarang, dgn puncaknya saat Claire "mengakui" dia membunuh Pendeta Wilde.Ketiga, menurut analisa saya, eksekusi cerita novel ini terkesan "dipangkas" agar HEA.
True to Sandra Brown form, this book was just about everything I look for in a book.
You really can't go wrong with anything Brown writes.
This book was written in 1991, but I didn't find myself noticing the 22 year difference.
With some books, you REALLY notice that the book is old ...
Maybe that's one of the main reasons that I really enjoy all of Brown's books.
it was a really good book.
The characters were great (as are all of Sandra Brown characters in every single book) - well written, thought out, engaging ...
Long story short, great book ...
I give French Silk four stars because I really enjoyed this book and I would definitely recommend it.
I liked the characters of Robert Cassidy and Jasmine and the way their characters were woven into the storyline.
The writer used words like "impetus", "inexorable" and "rapicity".
Some of the vocabulary in French Silk was a little ridiculous but the story is excellent.
I also really like the way New Orleans was described in the book.
French Silk was a thrilling read and I'm going to read more of her books
