https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/8586330-the-outsider
Yet we readers of Lovecraft do not find this improbable, for—dreamers too--we know what it is to dwell in a gothic world of subterranean darkness.Written in 1921 (although not published until 1926, in Weird Tales), “The Outsider is clearly a homage to Edgar Allan Poe. A decade after its composition, H.P. conceded that it represented “my literal, unconscious imitation of Poe at its very height” and decried the “barbaric pomposity of its language” and its “baroque and windy rhetoric.” Lovecraft was being too harsh, for though I often find his diction “pompous” and “windy,” I do not find it to be so here.
A tale, truly Lovecraft style!  MONSTRUOS(LY) SUPERB! In this sad tale, the main character has been living all alone and without light......in a decaying castle for so much time......that he even forget how he came ending there......and who was before of being there. Once he decides to venture into the outer world,......soon enough he is face to face with the most hideous monster.
Great build up to a solid surprise reveal!The Outsider has a very Poe-esque feel to it. An old castle. A mysterious stranger. An ominous inner monologue. This short story feels like a birth-to-adolescence progression. The main character knows very little about himself, but he learns and gradually all is revealed in a spine-chilling climatic ending when we discover he
A BR with Lovecraft cheerleader Craig :)What a lovely short spooky story. I loved the atmosphere and the secret revelation wasn't really secret, but I felt that every page of this short story was used fully :)
In  The Outsider H.P. Lovecraft crafts a soul-shattering tale of self-knowledge and self-realization.“I know always that I am an outsider; a stranger in this century and among those who are still men. This I have known ever since I stretched out my fingers to the abomination within that great gilded frame; stretched out my fingers and touched a cold and unyielding surface of polished glass.”
A re-read.It doesn't get any more gothic than this!Alone in a dreary dark castle, a young man has no memories of every being anywhere else, of ever seeing another human soul.
He learns of the outside world from the castle's extensive libraries, and develops the desire to see the light.
Thus, he embarks on a dangerous excursion to try to reach the exterior.This story is a classic example of the paradox at the heart of Lovecraft's art and life: He was xenophobic well past what was considered average at the time, but yet he writes of horrors - "outsiders" - from an inside perspective, with remarkable sympathy.
Loved this short story! I'm only just getting into Lovecraft but I'm already very impressed with his work and his writing.Creepy setting and descriptions set this up to be a really dark and disturbing little story. This is fantastic! A story about our fear of the unknown, but with a twist... maybe the unknown is scared of us & the unknown too.
A powerful and moving story of a man forced by fate to live alone, and his venture into another world, filled with people and a monstrosity forever pursuing him.
Horrific. Heart-wrenching. And Brilliant.A mysterious man lives in a morbid castle surrounded with a seemingly endless forest. The story tells of his attempt to escape to the other-upper side.I said heart-wrenching and this is why:H. P. Lovecraft wrote this short story as a tribute to Edgar Allan Poe, his idol. Poe reached the literary summits during his lifetime; Lovecraft didn't. He died in poverty and was virtually unknown, confined to the pulps. He epitomizes this confinement in the story. "
Horrific.
Heart-wrenching.
And Brilliant.A mysterious man lives in a morbid castle surrounded with a seemingly endless forest.
The story tells of his attempt to escape to the other-upper side.I said heart-wrenching and this is why:H.
P. Lovecraft wrote this short story as a tribute to Edgar Allan Poe, his idol.
Poe reached the literary summits during his lifetime; Lovecraft didn't.
He died in poverty and was virtually unknown, confined to the pulps.
He epitomizes this confinement in the story.
Recommended.Note: In the story, the ascent symbolizes Lovecraft's desire to rise in the literary field.
And things get increasingly bizarre until we reach the crescendo when we get a more complete picture to which my first reaction was “Ah Ha!” and my next was “What is it?” and then it was an immediate rewind back to the beginning and start over, abandoning all the assumptions I had made that blinded me to all the clues strewn through the whole book.Now I’m not going to tell you what that picture is other than to say think of a Mr Potato Head.
Lovecraft gives you a Mr Potato Head in the beginning, unassembled.
This story is probably, in my opinion, one of Lovecraft's best. I have read it dozen's of times and I never seem to get bored with it.I'm sure everyone can relate to its general theme of 'being scared of the unknown' but I loved that fact that this story went one step further and made it about how the unknown may just be afraid of us too.
"Unhappy is he to whom the memories of childhood bring only fear and sadness" Este cuento fue el primero que leí de Lovecraft y de eso ya tiene bastantes años, pero dejo tiene un lugar muy especial en mi vida porque el extraño nos presenta a un personaje triste, solitario y olvidado por el mundo, que teme lo que hay en el exterior de su habitación (¿puedo llamarlo habitación?) pero detesta ese lugar...básicamente describía de manera estupenda como me sentía en el momento que lo leí (dah, pre-ad

His style, which sometimes reminds me of Faulkner, his disturbed yet amazingly ordered mind, his point of view toward the world(sentences such as: LIGHT IS NOT FOR ME ETC),the simplicity of his works, especially in this story are the features that makes Lovecraft works exception among the other writers in horror literature.I finished this very short, yet unforgettable story today and when it was finished, I was like: can this happen to me too?
To become an alien without even knowing it?Vivid despair and pessimistic view toward the world, which is the main aspect of works of Lovecraft, was too beautiful and obvious in this story.
از این بیشتر خوشم اومد! هنوز با نوع روایت داستاناش مشکل دارم.ولی خب میتونم بگم این داستانش به راحتی میتونه منبع الهام برای داستان نویسی بشه.ایده خوب بود دیگه،خووب
Love the twist at the end. Love it. I am always a huge fan of the unreliable narrator. Great story.
Haunted castle! Mysterious monster! Great story! The audiobook was great too!https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WZyBK...
This was a fun short story! I saw the twist immediately when his surroundings were described, but that didn't really matter
Until now, I've only read one other lovecraft story, which was the call of Cthulhu.
Then one day I was reading an article online where they were comparing Kafka and lovecraft.
I'm something of a fan of Kafka so this struck my interest.
After reading how similar this two guys were, I decided to take another look at lovecraft.
Looking through his different stories, this one struck my interest.
It was only about ten pages long and there was something about that got my attention.
When I started reading it, I couldn't help but feel a bit depressed at how bleak it was.
You could say that the main themes of The Outsider are loneliness, sadness and loss.
You don't know more about the narrator than he is willing to tell you.You start with the knowledge that he has been living alone in an unapproachable place.
He doesn't know how long.
No human or any other contact.
The books are his source of knowledge.
All the rest you find out along the way.After numerous attempts to leave the only place he knows, he stumbles upon people who react to him the way he doesn't expect.
The Outsider is a pretty sad story.
One of Lovecraft's most imaginative short stories. Leaving aside his usual imagery and story formulae, Lovecraft decides to focus on his main character, whose whole life has been spent imprisoned in a castle. Telling us of his efforts to reach the outside world, Lovecraft tells a surprisingly sad story that will leave you with a couple of things to ponder about.
Meu primeiro Lovecraft e adorei! Sinistro
This is my favorite H.P. Lovecraft story. It's the kind of story that only really works in text because it refrains from giving enough detail to give away the twist at the end. You end up rooting for the main character and feel sympathetic toward him until the very end when there's that big reveal (no spoilers!). Heck, you may even feel sympathetic toward him afterwards (I sure do).
Usual Lovecraft. The story has made me feel scared and happy because I didn't go through what the narrator has gone through.
This is my introduction to Lovecraft, and I enjoyed it. It is heavy in its gothic themes, very evocative and could also be allegorical, which I appreciate. I read it to Harry, who had no idea what was happening.
My mum read this to me and I had no idea what was happening.
La obra narra la historia de un sujeto que posee una vida lúgubre y solitaria en un gran castillo en donde solo se destaca la continua oscuridad y en donde no se ve un rastro de luz.
Tampoco ha presenciado cómo es el mundo exterior, solo mediante la lectura de ciertos documentos.Tras sentirse inmerso en una cárcel, el protagonista decide explorar una altísima torre de la cual se podría vislumbrar el universo que lo rodea.
La descripción de cada escena es entretenida y ni decir de la filosofía del protagonista que genera mucha intriga al lector.Me recuerda ciertos elementos de relatos de Edgar Allan Poe.
3.5 stars.(view spoiler)[I like the idea that the place that the protagonist has been and cannot remember anything outside of, is perhaps an underworld/afterlife and he climbs up and up and up until he comes into the living world.
It also explains why he understands that he is human despite never having seen himself and why he knows how to read despite not remembering being taught how or anyone who might have taught him.
(hide spoiler)]An aside: It is never actually specified whether the main character is male or female, but I kept imagining a "him".

Even though this one doesn't make sense, it makes no sense in such an appealing way that it is one of my favorites by Lovecraft. How is it that the narrator who has apparently grown up without any contact with anyone else have such a rich vocabulary, to say nothing of various intellectual constructs and concepts. The more I think on it, the less it coheres... and yet.
I know always that I am an outsider; a stranger in this century and among those who are still men.Gothic horror at it's finest. This was especially reminiscent of Lovecraft's idol, Edgar Allan Poe (who is one of my all-time favorites!) A tale of grief; loneliness & isolation; a fear of the unknown & facing those fears head-on.
