https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/101567.Savage_Pellucidar
After a good start, this series of books got increasingly more frustrating to read.
Protagonist A would meet friendly native B, they would then be captured by hostile tribe X and have to escape.
After a short period of freedom they would be captured by tribe Z.
This one did change things a little in that there were multiple POV's, but that caused issues when the POV would change every couple of paragraphs.Glad to have finished the series, but I think that's quite enough ERB for some time.
If your interested in this series, grab the first two, find a map of Pelluicdar on the internet and enjoy.
It's a delightful read!
The tale reminds me of those old-time chase movies because the action goes and goes and goes.
The characters (many) explore, get lost, are captured, escape, and the sequence repeats.
Meet David Innes and Abner Perry who drill into earth's interior to discover a world within a world, Pellucidar.
Inhabited by cave men and beasts of the time, they find themselves stranded.
David falls in love with Dian the Beautiful and Perry invents and invents.
The adventures of Innes and Perry combine with those of several other characters.
It's great fun to read!
I have no particular recollection of the Pellucidar stories in this, the last of the series. I do, however, remember the cover and have appreciated aggressively independent women ever since.
Really enjoyed this!
My favorite Pellucidar book and one of my Burroughs favorites, a brilliant satire of religion and a comedic romp.
I have the Ace edition.
Read this and the rest of the Pellucidar series in the 70s. Enjoyable!
The last in ERB's "Pellucidar" series, this one is actually a collection of four stories. Typical plot and adventures, with dinosaurs still around in Earth's inner world.
Thanks
Worthy of note is the accuracy used in the genus description pertaining to the dinosaurs.
Filling a full sized hot air balloon with natural gas would be begging for a disaster given the volatility of natural gas or hydrogen.
The Hindenburg was filled with hydrogen, a highly flammable gas, and exploded in 1937.
So the idea of filling a large hot air balloon with highly flammable gas, and the risks associated with that, is not new but just as risky.
A very good book for up and coming young readers with a bent for sci-fi, dinosaurs and adventure.
The final installment of the Pellucidar series is an interesting story with a lot of potential that unfortunately seemed to follow the same template as the other books.Burroughs introduced an New Englander who had become a cannibal, a king from a bronze-age city, and several other interesting characters, but never really developed them. The characters he does develop are nearly indistinguishable from the characters in the other books in the series. There are the strong, independent women, the strong, honorable men, the men without honor, and the wild beasts.The story itself was an enjoyable read, but nothing spectacular.
Still the same formula as the other books, but this time with added humor and a bit of social commentary (just a tad). I enjoyed reading about David finding Dian one last time. Hopefully they lived happily ever after.
The Pelliucidar series is my favorite series written by Edgar Rice Burroughs. I used to walk to Grand Central and gather bottles along the side of the road. I would be able to collect enough bottles and turn them in for the deposit for the next book in this (and all of his series)series of books!
This the last novel in the Pelucidar series is actually rather good, the style is often poor at times almost childlike, the story totally unbelievable, but it is great fun, action-packed with at times (especially in the second part) lots of humour and rather dark humour at that.
read some time in 1995
Pellucidar Book 5
