https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/295961.The_Eagle_Has_Landed
”The slab slid to one side, tilting on the slope of the mound, and all was revealed. I suppose it was one of the most astonishing moments of my life, for it was a simple stone with a German cross at the head--what most people would describe as an Iron Cross. The inscription beneath it was in German: Here lies Lieutenant-Colonel Kurt Steiner and 13 German paratroopers, killed in action on November 6th, 1943.” Colonel Otto Skorzeny with Benito Mussolini after the successful rescue attempt.Really t
Luckily, they have the man they need right there in Berlin, teaching English Literature at the University, a Trinity graduate and an IRA member named Liam Devlin.
Devlin thinks the plan is a bit daft, but he is bored and wants to get back into the action.
That is Jenny Agutter looking lovely perched on the back of the bike.Radl finds his man to lead the mission, the disgraced Lieutenant Colonel Kurt Steiner, son of a German general and an American mother.
Steiner is in the Channel Islands sitting on manned torpedoes, attempting to blow up Allied shipping.
In all seriousness, this is without doubt, the BEST 2 STAR BOOK  that I've ever read.  I know, I know... on its face that sounds confusing and maybe even oxymoronical and may lead to a bit of head scratching or possibly even a mild rash. For that I'm truly sorry, but please slap some calamine lotion on your itches and give me a chance to explain before you dismiss me as an oxy or any other form of moron. PLOT SUMMARY:Briefly, this story tells the fictional tale of a German commando unit that att
PLOT SUMMARY:Briefly, this story tells the fictional tale of a German commando unit that attempts to kidnap Winston Churchill during World War II.
The book employs the “story within a story” method and begins with Jack Higgins (as himself) seemingly discovering the facts behind the unknown mission after finding the hidden graves of 13 German paratroopers at an English graveyard.
One of the reasons Higgins cites for the popularity of the book in his introduction is that it was the first time that regular German soldiers (as distinguished from those within the NAZI hierarchy) were portrayed in fiction as human beings and not bloodthirsty monsters.
There was a time when I loved Alistair MacLean, Jack Higgins, Desmond Bagley...
the whole damn lot.
That was when I was brainwashed into thinking that Americans were good and Russians were bad: that the Second World War was a just war, where the Good Allies won and the Evil Axis lost: that the Israelis were a peaceful people, being continuously menaced by the bloodthirsty Arabs.
Most of my black-and-white take on world affairs were influenced by popular Hollywood movies and thrillers.That time is long past, but I would still rate this novel as one of the better ones, as it presents Germans in a favourable light: the noble and tragic anti-hero Kurt Steiner is a fantastic character.
It's been a long time since I read my old paperback version, but I think I read it too early in my life.
well, just everything.There are plenty of good & bad guys.
I'm a bit confused by the idea that a low jump was better for the reasons given.
Less time in the air is nice for concealment, but I always found it a hell of a lot more scary.
http://www.imdb.com/title/tt0074452/Michael Caine as Steiner is perfect casting as is Donald Pleasance as Himmler.
I don't think I've seen the movie since it came out, though.
امتیاز واقعی:3.5داستانی بر مبنای اسناد و مدارک تاریخی به ادعای نویسنده که در اواخر جنگ جهانی دوم اتفاق می افته وبه دلیل همین تاریخی بودن از لحظه ای که کتاب رو شروع می کنید می دونید که تهش چه اتفاقی قراره بیوفتهعملیات نافرجام آلمان برای دزدیدن چرچیلبا این حال جوری با کاراکتر ها ارتباط برقرار می کنید که امیدوارید در انتها سرنوشت بهتری داشته باشند.
نکته جالب برای من این بود که شاید برای اولین بار با داستانی از جنگ جهانی دوم روبرو شدم که آلمانی ها در اون شخصیت های پلید و "نازی" نبودند، بلکه بیشتر از همیشه شبیه به همه ی سرباز ها هستندمقدمه چینی ها برای اتفاق اصلی بسیار بیشتر از خود واقعه بود و این کمی خسته کننده بود.
I enjoy reading war & related fiction & have read many books but what Higgins presented here was beyond doubt extraordinary.
In fact the research is as important to the plot as is the book.
A German War HERO: Yes & I am not going to talk about him because words won't do justice to the courage, character or clarity of thought Kurt Steiner possessed.
Conclusion: I don't think I will ever read another book from Higgins as I am afraid he will let me down.
I think I’ve read this book before, and seen the movie, but I read it when I was in high school or junior high—long enough ago that I’d forgotten the details.
Not squeaky-clean (PG-13), but cleaner than average for the market.I think what impresses me most about this book is the way Higgins creates sympathy for so many characters—even though most of the characters are trying to kidnap or assassinate Churchill (something I don’t want to happen), Higgins introduces the characters in a way that makes me like them and want them to achieve their goals.
The characters are imperfect, but admirable or funny or brave, and though most of them are fighting on the wrong side of the war, I understood their motivations and cared about what happened to them.
'The Eagle Has Landed' is definitely one of the best and must read World War II Spy Thriller.
Easily one of those classic thrillers with very believable plot and crisply created characters, which makes it a candidate for re-reading.The story takes place in the fictitious Norfolk village of Studley Constable.
The plot follows a Abwehr headed special forces mission for abducting British Prime Minister Winston Churchill during his supposed visit to a remote village in Norfolk.
For those who loved 'The Eagle has Landed' the sequel 'The Eagle Has Flown' is worth reading.
Though nominally about espionage, as the story revolves around an imaginary plot by the Nazi military intelligence agency, the Abwehr, in 1943, the novel is more properly a thriller, action-filled virtually from the beginning to the end.Enter Heinrich HimmlerThe principal characters in The Eagle Has Landed include two real-life leaders of the Third Reich, Admiral Wilhelm Canaris, head of the Abwehr, and Heinrich Himmler, leader of the SS and widely regarded as heir apparent to Adolf Hitler, who also figures in the plot as a minor character.
At the beginning and end of the novel author Jack Higgins gives the reader the impression that this particular event really did happen and through extensive research the author is simply filling in the details to bring the story to life.
Can't believe it's taken me 38 years to discover the book - I've noticed it time and again but it never really caught my eye, and Higgins is not an author I've ever read.
As luck would have it, the paperback was on the recycle shelves at the library and I grabbed it to take along as a summer read a couple of years ago ...
One of Jack Higgins best novels and a rare case in which the movie was just as good.
German commandos are sent to England in 1943 to kidnap Churchill while an IRA agent goes in ahead of them by a few weeks to prep for the mission.
Of course things go wrong.
It's a great read with a twist of an ending.
I saw the movie in 1977.
I read the book five years later.
I own the movie.
I've re-read the novel a couple times.
I still like it.
Just open the book and go with the roller coaster.
THE best period piece, adventure/ spy story. A classic! Imagine a book where the reader ends up rooting for a German commando to kill Winston Churchill. As a writing exercise, the characters are so well-crafted that one can believe it. Many of Higgin's other books do not rise to this standard, but are still okay reads. This one is the best, however.
A masterpiece. The fact that there's only one way for it to end is not a detriment to the suspense, either. Fast nailbiter of an impossible book.
این کتاب راجع به ماجرای نافرجام ربودن چرچیل در انگلیس توسط سربازان آلمانی هست.
ترجمه ش عالی بود.
موضوع عالی بود -هرچند اگه ساختگی باشه -.
اما مهمترین چیزی که تو ۵۰۰ صفحه کتاب روی مخ آدم میره اینه که نویسنده توی فصل اول کل کتاب رو اسپویل میکنه!!!
یعنی شما توی فصل اول متوجه میشید که آخر کتاب چی میشه!!
همینکه طی خوندن کتاب میدونستم آخرش چی میشه و چه بلایی سر سربازا میاد، حالم گرفته میشد و رغبت برای ادامه ش نداشتم.
برای همین خیلی طول کشید خوندنش.
۳ستاره هم فقط برای بی طرف بودن نویسنده س توی جنگ جهان
ترجمه ش عالی بود.
موضوع عالی بود -هرچند اگه ساختگی باشه -.
اما مهمترین چیزی که تو ۵۰۰ صفحه کتاب روی مخ آدم میره اینه که نویسنده توی فصل اول کل کتاب رو اسپویل میکنه!!!
یعنی شما توی فصل اول متوجه میشید که آخر کتاب چی میشه!!
همینکه طی خوندن کتاب میدونستم آخرش چی میشه و چه بلایی سر سربازا میاد، حالم گرفته می‌شد و رغبت برای ادامه ش نداشتم.
برای همین خیلی طول کشید خوندنش.
۳ستاره هم فقط برای بی طرف بودن نویسنده س توی جنگ جهانی.
خیلی خوب هر ۲ طرف آلمان و انگلیس بود.
و تصویر پردازی هم خوب بود.
This is one of those classic war novels that created a genre and was highly influential, like the Alistair Maclean's novels Guns of Navarone & Where Eagles Dare (both books share the same era in thriller books that were published and both are British and are considered great in their genre).This is one of those books that dared to show a different face of WWII, the Germans were not the bloodthirsty murderers they are actually the gentleman like hero's and of course the other antihero the IRA hitman by the name of Liam Devlin makes his first appearance.
It is disheartening to me whenever a good story comes to an end, one such book is Jack Higgins "The Eagle Has Landed".
I borrowed from a library read quarter last year and was not able to get hold the book again.
Fortunately this year I got the opportunity to hold this book and finished reading.
I enjoyed each and every page, the characters Liam Devlin and Steiner will be cherished in my heart.
The story, Adolf Hitler hints about an idea of kidnapping the Prime Minister of England Winston Churchill.
Devlin and Steiner comes in.
From IMDb:Oberst Steiner, a German parachute unit commander, is sent to England on a covert mission to kidnap Prime Minister Winston Churchill and bring him to Berlin. The seemingly impossible assignment becomes more and more feasible as the mission grows nearer with Steiner and his men arriving in England to a very real possibility of success.
Mind blowing, unputdownable. Set on the backdrop of WW II, where the German paratroopers are instructed by Heinrich Himmler to kidnap Churchill dead or alive. A must read, and recommended for any WW II fan.
A suspenseful and clever World War II adventure tale. Recommended to readers who enjoy historical thrillers, although fans of the mystery and romance (yes, romance!) genres might also be impressed.
(But, unlike some thriller writers who waste tons of pages trying to make their boring stock characters come to life, Higgins just draws his with a few rough strokes and moves on, which I appreciate.)This book essentially asks the reader to root for a group of German soldiers whose goal it is to capture or kill Winston Churchill.
He succeeds by making them the most sympathetic group of soldiers who intend to capture/kill Churchill possible, and by organizing the plot like a heist film.
I know they fail, and the characters don't feel real enough for me to care about them too much, and I don't want them to succeed anyway so...
If the Germans could make a successful strike against Churchill, perhaps British morale would be so shaken a negotiated peace could be made.This is the premise of what is probably author Jack Higgins’ best known thriller, The Eagle Has Landed.
Pulled from the water, the local villagers discover the soldier is wearing his German Army uniform under his Polish uniform.But that movie was a severely abridged version of Higgins’ story of wartime loyalties and betrayals.
¿Cómo pueden confundirnos con el ejército personal de Himmler?" En esta novela los buenos son los que siempre han sido los malos: quieren asesinar a Churchill y tú estás con ellos, quieres que lo consigan.
Otra cosa que me ha gustado mucho es la presentación de la maquinaria institucional de la Alemania nazi: la Abwehr, la Luftwaffe, el por qué te dan la Cruz de Caballero o por qué no, las purgas internas, la lucha política...Como aliciente adicional, contiene la frase más nazi que jamás se ha escrito: "Se quitó el casco, el impermeable y los guantes, sacó la gorra, la Schiff, que tenía guardada bajo la Fliegerbluse y se la puso.
A classic. I'm putting this on my bookshelf as it was the first adult book I read at 12 years old - I'd always seen it on my Grandad's bookshelf and wanted to read it so one long weekend, it was handed to me. I became absolutely engrossed.It's one of those books that you can re-read every few years and still get lost in the characters and the plot; and a great introduction for anyone that isn't familiar with this author's books.Rachel AmphlettAuthor of White Goldwww.rachelamphlett.com
So, I've never read a Jack Higgins novel before, which is amazing because the guy is a prolific writer and there are alot of them out there.
All I can say is I am sorry it took me so long to pick one up, and one of his first, also.
This was a great classic book and one of my favorite WWII novels i've ever read.
This was made into a movie also and I have never seen it, but I am heading to netflix now to see if I can find it.
Highly recommended if you like action, great detail and a ripping good yarn with historical characters.
The best book I have ever read in my life. Jack Higgins' prose and talent as a writer is beyond comparison. Steiner will always be one of my favourite literary heroes and the plot will always be one of the greatest I have come across. This is a novel I can read time and time again - and always be left in awe. Sheer genius.
One of the greatest books of all time.
Maybe 3 1/2 stars. A nice little spy thriller. As a fan of the movie I appreciated the deeper back story here.
Admiral Wilhelm Canaris, head of the Abwehr (German military intelligence), is ordered to make a feasibility study of the seemingly impossible task of capturing British Prime Minister Winston Churchill and bringing him to the Reich.(Canaris is executed 1 mth before war end as involved in plotting Hitler's downfall)Canaris realizes that although Hitler will soon forget the matter, Himmler will not.
After the Colonel is shot in the head by Mrs. Grey, Major Kane organizes a second, successful attack.Steiner, his second-in-command Ritter von Neumann, and Devlin manage to escape with the aid of a local girl, Molly Prior, who had become romantically involved with the Irishman.
A classic World War II story as only Higgins can tell. (The movie is pretty good too)
This was a pretty good spy thriller about the alleged attempted kidnapping of Winston Churchill by a group of Nazi officers and an Irish Spy. It's not my favorite genre but this had a good story.
