https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/52042.Ten_Days_that_Shook_the_World
Sometimes you know a book is great even if you yourself have a hard time reading it.
I certainly admire the book, and can see why a movie was made of it; Reed's descriptions of moods, sights, sounds and smells, his overall description of environment is immpeccable.
I loved these parts of the book.But the book is just as much, if not more, Reed's account of the literally scores of factions, political parties, armies, navies, congresses, and commititees.
Unfortunatley, one has to be a geologist to keep some of them straight.I will, in all liklihood, read the book again one day, when more of it has time to process.
Amidst a whirl of excitement, dread and rumour, Lenin abolishes all private ownership of land.Episode 5: Chill WindsEx-Prime Minster Kerensky has joined forces with the Cossacks and is advancing on Petrograd, and there is fighting in the streets in Moscow: rumour is rife that the Revolution cannot survive.
Reed and Bryant set out to Moscow to see for themselves but find not everyone in the city supports the Bolsheviks.Episode 10: The Conquest of Power: The Bolsheviks have defeated the counter-revolution and are getting on with the business of government despite the threat of civil war.
Due to the various political parties that John Reed speaks of in his impassioned account of the Russian Revolution, it becomes somewhat difficult to follow the flow of events and their importance.
And the Provisional Government wasn't exactly any more sympathetic to the poor lower classes; it was in support of Russia's continued participation in World War I, and would not grant them the land that much of Lenin and Trotsky's Bolshevik ideology argued that they were entitled to.
John Reed, a Portland born American journalist covered most of the chaotic events of the October Revolution, including the attack on the Winter Palace, where the counter-revolutionary Whites where defeated by the Bolsheviks.
Αυτη ειναι η μοίρα των σημαντικών ιστορικών γεγονότων.
Αθτο το βιβλιο ειναι ενα χρονικό.
Καποιοι θα πουν οτι δεν ειναι αντεικειμενικο.
Ειναι λοιπον ενα χρονικό, μια μαρτυρία και ενα ρεπορτάζ .
Ο Τζον Ρηντ ηταν δημοσιογράφος και έβλεπε τα πράγματα ως τέτοιος .
Καποιοι θα πουν " Μα ηταν δικός τους " .
Ο παλμός των γεγονότων και της επανάστασης υπαρχει σε καθε σελίδα αυτού του βιβλίου.
Αυτο το κανει ανώτερο απο καθε βιβλιο των ημερών μας που μυθιστορηματικά ή ιστορικά θελει να αναπλάσει τα γεγονότα .
Αν θες να μάθεις την ιστορια αυτής της επανάστασης , απο αυτο θα πρεπει να ξεκινήσει.
This impact of the revolution has been noted by other scholars as well, but its amazing to see firsthand how a feeling of ownership over their society dawned upon the ordinary Russian and how this in turn fed a desire to read and know as much as possible.
Some of the scenes, such as the funeral procession at the Kremlin for the martyrs of the uprising with their "rough-hewn caskets painted red" (paraphrasing) and the great red banners over the Kremlin wall were incredibly evocative.One thing to take from this book is how informed the average Bolshevik cadre was about who they were and what their political project was.
Sin embargo, a día de hoy, muchos historiadores dudan de que el autor pudiera estar presente en tantos hechos importantes, sobre todo por la simultaneidad y la distancia entre los mismos, salvo que tuviera el don de la ubicuidad.
No así Stalin, al que parece que no le sentó muy bien que Reed encumbrara a Trotsky por encima de su persona.Como obra de consulta no la he encontrado de gran ayuda, salvo por su valor testimonial.
La Revolución Rusa 1917-1922”, publicado por Edaf.He de reconocer que no he leído “10 días que…” página a página, más bien he ido saltando entre capítulos, pues tiene partes muy densas.
Tanto ó más recomendable que la presente obra.
Reed and Bryant set out to Moscow to see for themselves but find not everyone in the city supports the Bolsheviks.Episode 10: The Conquest of PowerThe Bolsheviks have defeated the counter-revolution and are getting on with the business of government despite the threat of civil war.
The abolition of all private ownership of land has won over the peasants and, for a moment, the Revolution seems to have accomplished its goals.Director Alison Hindell BBC Cymru Wales productionJohn Reed's vivid eye-witness account of his time in Petrograd was written in early 1918 and published in the USA the following year.
وان كان جون ريد قد عانى الامرين فى سبيل اعداد هذا الكتاب متحملا دوى الرصاص والانفجارات من حولة ....فقد عانى ما هو اشد من ذلك فى وطنة (امريكا) عندما اراد ان ينشرة ..فحتى ذلك الوقت لم يكن ينشر فى اميركا واوروبا الا احقر الاكاذيب والادعائات البرجوازية لتشوية الثورة الروسية حتى لا يلفتوا نظر عمال وفلاحين بلادهم لبطولة اخوانهم فى روسيا وكيف استطاعوا انتزاع السلطة من ايدى مستغليهم ، وتعرضت المخطوطة الاصلية لست محاولات سرقة على ايدى قطاع طرق لاتلافها ، ولكن رغم كافة المصاعب والعراقيل .
فقد اصدر الكتاب فى اميركا عام 1919.
American journalist and socialist John Reed wrote about Russia's 1917 October Revolution presenting a first hand account of all the events whilst being on assignment for a socialist politics magazine called The Masses, however due to this magazine's forced closure another magazine The Liberator published his articles. Reed was able to interact with Bolshevik leaders and got much information from officials apart from his experiences and was therefore able to present his account both dramatically and accurately. Read it here: http://www.marxists.org/archive/reed/...http://www.bartleby.com/79/http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ten_Days...
Ήξερα, φυσικά, τη Φήμη αυτού του βιβλίου ως ένα από τα καλύτερα βιβλία που περιγράφουν την οκτωβριανή επανάσταση αλλά διαβάζοντας το δεν μπόρεσα παρά να εντυπωσιαστώ.
Πρόκειται για ένα βιβλίο που πραγματικά σε βάζει στην καρδιά των γεγονότων, με μία γραφή σχεδόν μυθιστορηματική και μία αφήγηση που καλύπτει όλες τις πτυχές αυτού του σημαντικού γεγονότος της ανθρώπινης ιστορίας.
Ο συγγραφέας μας μεταφέρει διαρκώς από τα λόγια των σημαντικών προσωπικοτήτων της επανάστασης στα αισθήματα των απλών ανθρώπων και ξανά πίσω, περιγράφοντας παράλληλα και τις δικές του περιπέτειες μέσα σε όλο αυτό το χαμό, προσφέροντας μας έτσι όχι απλά μία εξιστόρηση αλλά μία ευκαιρία να ζήσουμε τα γεγονότα όσο το δυνατόν πιο κοντά.
Ένα πραγματικά απαραίτητο ανάγνωσμα για όσους θέλουν να γνωρίζουν κάποια πράγματα για την οκτωβριανή επανάσταση.
9 OCT 2017 - a recommendation through Bettie. Many Thanks. Give a listen here - http://www.bbc.co.uk/programmes/b0978bgq23 OCT 2017 - a very good listen-to.
Russia was in great turmoil, with widespread opposition to the war, a struggling economy, and shortages of basic necessities.
Though the bolsheviks probably never achieved majority support for their party, it seems clear enough that their political aims were by far the majority position.The book only covers the early days, up to the assumption of power by the soviets, but already it was clear that this would not be a peaceful transition of power.
For the next five years the new Soviet Union would fight a civil war in which the anti-socialist forces were aided by foreign governments, leading to the further erosion of the economy, and, of course, great loss of life.
4.6 stars Ten Days that Shocked the World talks about American journalist and socialist John Reed experience in Russia during October revolution and Bolsheviks seizer of power ( Bolshevik literally means "one of the majority", derived from Russian ) in 1917, Russia.
Reed clearly wasn't neutral, in fact all of his sympathies lay with the Bolsheviks due to his political beliefs, but still he takes you on journey, through Russia, it's cities and it's revolutionary people.
Ten Days That Shock the World is an amazing detailed experience of one of the greatest events of the twentieth century.
The classic account of the October Bolshevik revolution that was supported mainly by the urban working classes and the large mass of sympathetic sailors and soldiers who were fed up with war and wanted peace. Even though a politically one sided work, John Reed wrote with enthusiasm and passion showing the events that took place mainly in Petrograd during the fateful days.
Πολυ μπερδεμα, πολλα ονοματα, λιγα πραγματα μου αφησε.
Ci sono troppi dettagli, troppi nomi di leader di partito, troppi partiti e comitati e sindacati...c'è troppo e ci si perde nei minuziosi dettagli.
It's said that this is one of the best books about Russian Revolution, but there are too many details, too many names of political leaders, of political parties and seen that in those days things changed from one day to the other, it's really difficult to follow or remember everything.
Usually I like non-fiction, but there are too many detailed informations and it seems more a school text rather than a pleasant non-fiction about the revolution.
ينجح ريد في نقل حالة التخبط السياسي و الاجتماعي قبيل و خلال الثورة فيقدم من خلال محاوراته و تجاربه الشخصية نماذج لكل الاطراف الفاعلة في الازمة بدأً من العمال و الفلاحون و الجنود و وصولاً لاراء جماعات سياسية كالبلاشفة و الاشتراكيين الثوريين بجناحيهم بل و حتي انصار حكومة كيرينسكي .
الكتاب يؤرخ لفترة محددة من عمر الثورة الروسية الكبري و هي قبيل استيلاءالبلاشفة علي الحكم و هروب كيرينسكي بعشرة ايام تقريبا .
بارغم من ان ريد ذكر في مقدمة كتابه انه حاول نقل الاحداث بعين محايدة إلا ان انحيازه للبلاشفة واضح تمام الوضوح و قد يفسر ذلك نشأة جون ريد و اتجهاته السياسية حتي قبل زيارته لروسيا .

Now that the dust has settled on the Soviet Union (though not, alas, on Russian expansionism) I think the status of the October Revolution of 1917 as the most extraordinary event of the 20th century has probably if anything been enhanced.How in the name of Sergei Eisenstein did a small group of revolutionaries representing solely the needs of the proletariat where the population consisted of 80% peasantry and all the real power lay in the hands of the aristocracy gain the upper hand with barely a shot fired in anger?John Reed, an American socialist of all things, was on hand to witness just how, and this is his account of it, one which became an instant classic and Lenin himself approved of.
4.5/5I was planning on reading this during the week of the 100th anniversary but I couldn't help myself. A bit biased? Sure.Bonus material: October: Ten Days that Shook the World (1928)The End of St. Petersburg (1927)
Ten Days that Shook the World is a compendium of eye-witness reporting and translated (except for some illustrations) source materials from this pivotal point in the Russian Revolution.
The book was penned by John Reed, a socialist journalist from the United States, who was the subject of the Warren Beatty movie, Reds.
For those who doubt the power of pen and word, Ten Days that Shook the World is a must-read.
At one point, Reed opines: “I suddenly realized that the devout Russian people no longer needed priests to pray them into heaven.
Reed may be ideologically committed to rule of the proletariat but he's certainly first and foremost an elite in the vanguard- he writes about working people as though they were a noble but alien race.The best lines, of course, go to a forceful, contemptuous, devastating Lenin- try these remarks on a movement within his own party to reestablish freedom of the press: "To tolerate the bourgeois newspapers would mean to cease being a Socialist.
Reed reportedly wrote this in ten straight days, and it shows: it's very much a stream of consciousness, liberally stuffed with unwieldy verbatim quotations from pamphlets and speeches of the era, and festooned with ellipses to the point of there being four or five "..."s on many pages.It's an interesting read as a personal (and unreservedly biased) account of the Bolshevik rise to power, but if you want a more readable, more coherent and more structured account, I'd recommend "Six Red Months in Russia" by Louise Bryant, who was there with Reed, as a much better choice.
هذا العنوان الذي أعطاه الصحفي الأمريكي جون ريد لكتابه "عشرة أيام هزت العالم" يعتبر الكتاب من أهم الو

Ένα από τα πλέον κλασικά έργα για την Οκτωβριανή Επανάσταση, το οποίο ακόμα και σήμερα, 100 χρόνια μετά, αξίζει να το διαβάσει ο κάθε ένας. Στο βιβλίο παρατίθεται το πως βίωσε ο συγγραφέας τα γεγονότα , και ενώ δείχνει να γνωρίζει σε βάθος την πραγματικότητα στη Ρωσία και παίρνει ξεκάθαρη θέση πολιτικά, δεν φοβάται να πει τα πράγματα όπως έγιναν με τα θετικά και τα αρνητικά τους και να αφήσει τον αναγνώστη να βγάλει μόνος του τα συμπεράσματά του. Προσωπικά μου φάνηκε αρκετά διδακτικό σαν κείμενο.
A very interesting, dense, complicated book. Trying to remember the names of all the councils, groups, parties, etc, is a bit of a chore. But it is an important book, that helps understand what happened in Russia in that time period. And it is now a classic.But... be aware that this is very one-sided. I knew it would be, but it is almost funny sometimes how much of a propaganda tool this book is.
İnsanın tarihte giriştiği en heyecan verici öykünün ilk on gününü anlatan müthiş bir eser. Belgeler, tarihin o döneminde sahne alan kişiler, örgütler, partiler, gazetelerle ilgili çok detaylı bilgiler içeriyor. Bu belgesel anlatı aynı zamanda bir edebi eser. Bolşevik Devrimi o kadar güzel sahnelerle resmedilmiş ki, okurken zaman zaman tüylerim diken diken oldu.
The second, in November (Gregorian calendar), toppled the provisional government and set up a communist dictatorship under Vladimir Ulyanov’s (Lenin) Bolsheviks.
Mr. Reed transitions from narrative to the text of a speech by some leader back to narrative to the text of a proclamation back to narrative.
Sometimes these speeches and proclamations discussed policy, sometimes ideas, sometimes assertions about events.
At the end of the book is a set of Appendices, one from each chapter, containing additional relevant speeches, proclamations, etc.
Kerensky, a leader in the provisional government, made the mistake of firing on neutrals as he approached Petrograd to drive the Bolsheviks out.
Lenin himself gave this book a good review and I think that says enough. Very informative and beautiful.
