https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/574764.Curious_George_s_Are_You_Curious_
He balances a ball on his head and feels happy, he blows a trumpet so that he can be loud, he is scared and cries when a bundle of balloons whips him off the ground, he is proud when he has won a medal and disports it in the mirror, he is dizzy when he spins round on the record turntable and he is sad when he goes to bed and cries.He also does silly things and can occasionally be naughty and mischievous after which he needs time out!
This works well with children who are changing stages of comprehension. It is short and the pictures are engaging if they are at that level, but as they start listening more the questions asked and pictures work well to reinforce the child's own emotions and connections. Sometimes you are naughty and need a time out.
Maybe I liked this one because my four-year-old niece answered all the questions aloud as I read. And at "Are you ever scared?" she giggled and said, "Of course."
It is available as a standalone board book or part of the 'Curious Gorge Box of Books' which contains the following titles:Curious George's OppositesCurious George's 1 to 10 and Back AgainCurious George's ABC'sCurious George's Are You Curious?My youngest and I recently read this book through a number of times.
Buy the third or fourth time through she was reading the whole book to me.
I am not sure where my daughter picked up this board book edition.
It is a fun little book, and my daughter loves it.The Original Stories by HA.
The newest incarnation The New Adventures of Curious George have been appearing since 1998.Read the review on my blog Book Reviews and More.
My three year old and I read this at bedtime *along with several others*.
I must say it's not my favourite Rey book.
I appreciate the book relays a range of feelings to small children; however, not thrilled with the naughty page and subsequent time out - as this is a board book whose primary market is presumably the young toddler set?
Do we really need to encourage naughty behaviour - don't they get into enough of that without assistance?
My youngest son seems to love this, so it shall certainly continue to be read in our house.
This is a good picture-board book to help your child understand his-her feelings. Each page has an illustration of George the monkey doing something that corresponds with his feelings and then askes something like "you ever feel sad" "you ever feel silly" etc.
My daughter likes all the Curious George books that we have. This one is not my favorite. I'm not sure how I feel about some of the language. In this book it asks if you are mischievious and naughty.
This book would be good if it weren't for the "Have you ever been naught so that you need a time out?" I don't believe in punishing children, and children who have parented consentually and with respect may very well find George sitting all alone on a bench very sad.
I like the curious George show. Our toddler hasn't watched any. He couldn't much relate to the character or the illustrations. He quietly looked at the feelings of George while I read.
Gift for my one year old, but oh so appropriate for my three year old!
My first bookI love re-reading the books that I loved reading as a child, books like this and Charlotte's Web. I still remember my emotions
I read this with both my children.
If I had a nickel for every time we read this book at bedtime, I'd be a rich woman!
Sweet, cute little George!
Adorable book about feelings.
Part of a set we got for Christmas from Grandma Weezie.
Eli loves anything George related.
In Africa lived little monkey but he was very curious. One day a man with yellow hat come in the Africa and see little monkey . He wanted to take little monkey with him I the big city
This is a great introduction to feeling. Curious George depicts sadness, anger, curiosity, etc. and it's great as a board book. My son loved that he could easily turn the pages.
