https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/18007535-the-winter-people
I can so vividly recall our last morning together, hear her saying, If the snow melts down to water, does it still remember being snow?" Sara Harrison is grieving the death of her daughter, Gertie- and is willing to do anything to see her again...even though she knows bringing her back from the dead will have horrible consequences.January 2nd, Present day, West Hall, Vermont:Nineteen-year-old Ruthie Washburne and her little sister- Fawn- wake up one January morning to discover their mother- Alice- has gone missing.
I was riveted with the past- and Sara's story...and not so much with the present...but I am sure everyone who reads it will have their own favorite.
Ruthie is desperate to find her missing mother and Katherine is looking for answers about her dead husband's visit to West Hall.
She tells Sara’s story, all while leading up to the truth regarding the legend and how that has shaped the reality Ruthie and Katherine are now living.Woven within the mystery of the story is this quandary - what lengths would you go to for a little bit more time with the ones you’ve loved and lost?
I tend to have mixed feelings about books that end this way, but in this case, I kind of liked the open feel, especially regarding Katherine and the reckless decision she made.
Seriously people..these characters need to read more Stephen King. If they had read "Pet Sematary" they would have known that you just don't mess around trying to bring back the dead. Granted, Mr. King wasn't around writing in the 1800's that some parts of this book took place. I liked the older bits of the story more than the present day setting. One reason is because Ruthie really did not come across as realistic to me. I mean damn-a 19 year old girl with a curfew? Several things she did and e
Seriously people..these characters need to read more Stephen King.
If they had read "Pet Sematary" they would have known that you just don't mess around trying to bring back the dead.
Granted, Mr. King wasn't around writing in the 1800's that some parts of this book took place.
I liked the older bits of the story more than the present day setting.
Several things she did and especially the ending and I was like??
WTF??The book was a pretty good spooky read.
When I went to bed last night I really did want to get up and continue the book.
"Sometimes they're angry. They hate being stuck." This was one of my most anticipated scheduled reads for the year. It felt appropriate for the beginning of the winter, since November calls for stories with supernatural twists. The title and the front cover set the scenery. This proved to be a story rich in atmosphere, local lore and with an engaging plot line. And it was also an example of how fast can a certain 5-stars read become a 3 within 120 pages...In my opinion...The story follows two d
This proved to be a story rich in atmosphere, local lore and with an engaging plot line.
And it was also an example of how fast can a certain 5-stars read become a 3 within 120 pages...In my opinion...The story follows two different plot lines that are obviously connected to each other.
Set in West Hall, Vermont, a land of witches and dark woods, we initially find ourselves in 1908 when Sara loses what is most precious and dearest to her.
She did a major harm to the novel and the story would have been a 100 times better without her.
These myths become fantastical whereas aspects of the truth are distorted to make an even more engrossing tale of why there are "sleepers" roaming the forrests.The Winter People by Jennifer McMahon is gripping novel about a small town in Vermont, West Hall, where people disappear and farm animals to be slaughtered.
Although the novel turns into a sort-of thriller near the end, where the present day characters are trying to sort between the fact and fiction, The Winter People never becomes hokey or unbelieveable.
At times I found Sara's diary more interesting than the characters from the present day but that's because the bulk of the ghost story happens in the early 1900s.
The most mysterious secret is that of Sara Harrison Shea, who, in 1908, was found dead in the field behind her house just months after the tragic death of her daughter, Gertie.
Skip to the present day where 19 year old Ruthie returns home to find her Mother, Alice, missing.
There is also the story of Kathryn who comes to town to investigate the death of her husband who visited West Hall, Vermont without her knowledge.The Winter People is a beautifully written page turner.
This book tells the story of people dealing with untimely deaths.
Talk about CREEP FACTOR. This book was super spooky. Had a hard time putting it down. Highly recommend!
What initially attracted me to this book was that beautiful cover and I found the title very intriguing as well which definitely enticed me to pick this one up!Thoughts & what it's all about…THE WINTER PEOPLE by JENNIFER MCMAHON is a spooky, dark, eerie, and creepy tale that actually gave me the heebie-jeebies and goosebumps while reading this suspense-filled horror/thriller novel.
Right from the opening of the very first chapter I was hooked!The Secret Diary of Sara Harrison Shea - The first time I saw a sleeper, I was nine years old.JENNIFER MCMAHON delivers a well-written and an extremely atmospheric read here that is told in two separate timelines.
The story is creepiest when you don't really know what's happening.
When their trustworthy mother goes missing with no explanation, and their investigations start to turn up very creepy clues in very scary hiding places, the story is riveting.
(view spoiler)[ I didn't buy who the killer ultimately turned out to be, and I really hated the way Ruthie was asked to give up her dreams and take care of this sleeper that her mother had decided to take responsibility for--it didn't feel like a satisfying conclusion.
This book grabbed my attention because it did not appear to fit into the typical ‘slasher’ style horror trope, and seemed to promise me a chilling, atmospheric tale that did not rely upon a blood and gore to shock me or merely gross me out.Sure enough, the novel delivered what was promised, giving me a solid, atmospheric, and chilling tale, which fit the bill for the perfect story for my Halloween reading pleasure.
The isolation of West Hall, the oddities of the town and its inhabitants, both past and present is the perfect stage on which to build a chilling ghost story.
I was really engrossed for much of the story and I was sure I had a solid four-star book in my hands.
For the most part it was a good, solid, read, but there were just some things I didn't like.
My favorite scene was this one: (view spoiler)[When Ruthie goes to Candice's house and it looks perfect, but then she realizes that everything is broken and messed up in some way and she feels like she needs to get out of there.
That was my 5 star scene (hide spoiler)].But there was some not-so-good.
4.5/5 - One aspect of the ending was a tiny letdown, but overall I ADORED this. So unique and unsettling. I'll have a spoiler free video review up next week :)
In the present day is nineteen-year-old Ruthie living in Sara's old farmhouse with her mother Alice and her younger sister.
They search for clues in the house to find out what has happened to their mother and it is during the search that they discover a paperback version of Sara Harrison Shea diary...Have you ever read a book that sucks you into the story from page one?
Ruthie is a wonderful character, and as much as I enjoyed reading the past story with Sara was I a bit more interested in Ruthie's search for her mother.
Hooked me from the very beginning, two young girls, Ruth and Fern, wonderful inquisitive characters, really wanted to find out what happened.
Built of suspense, a little creepiness, exactly what is going on in this town and where has their mother gone?
What about the dreams Ruth keeps having, what are they supposed to mean?
Really wanted to know, kept reading and then plunk.
Ways that kind of dropped the suspense like a bowling ball.I always look forward to this author's books.
Did not like the way she chose to reveal what was gong on, just had a corny aspect to me.
It's one of those books that had me completely mesmerized at the time, but now that many days have past, I keep wondering .
That bit still makes the hairs on my arms stand straight up.From The Monkey's Paw to Pet Sematary, the idea of a grief-stricken parent giving almost anything to have a dead child back again always provides rich fodder for literary exploration.
But, perhaps it is best saved for a cold, gray day when the temperatures plummet, and the snowflakes are flying."He took me to see a lady with tangled hair who lives inside an old hollow tree.
She's been dead a long time.
She's one of the winter people."I felt Mama stiffen.
Deep in the Vermont woods in West Hall, one can find the Devil's Hand, a conglomeration of rocks that resemble the fingers on a very large hand.
Nearby, there is an orchard that produces bitter malformed fruit.
In West Hall, there are a lot of ghost stories and legends, albeit with very few solid facts to back up the frightening tales of children gone missing.
This is a fine ghost story, deftly weaving mysterious happenings between 1908 and present day.
With a focus on the power the dead have over the living, it maintains an appropriately eerie tone without going overboard.
A totally awesome and creepy book! My book light bit the dust one night and I read some of this by small flashlight and let me tell you it gave me the heebie-jeebies. I am not usually a horror fan, but this was pretty damn good!
However, also consider the old adage "Be careful what you wish for".In a story that bounces back between 1908 and the present day fictitious town of West Hall Vermont, we meet several characters dealing with untimely deaths.
Present day finds a wife and mother grieving the loss of her son, and then husband.
Is it possible to bring their loved ones back even if only for the seven days the book promises?McMahon sets her story well, in a creepy old house, with wooded lands and old stone formations, a place where imagination can run wild.
The Winter People is being marketed as a ghost story.
It begins with the secret diary of Sara Harrison Shea of West Hall, Vermont, written in the winter of 1908, just before she was brutally murdered.Sara tells of her life, the man she married, the babies they lost before little Gertie was born.
While trying to figure out where their mother might have gone, the girls stumble upon Sara's diary and other clues from the past, which lead them on a quest.
She is driven to go there and find out what he was up to, and in so doing, brings the stories of all those past and present together, leading to the interesting, though a bit formulaic, conclusion.
I read the entire thing on an overseas flight.
I didn't even watch the free movies, preferring to read.I was really drawn into the plot-- both the current day story of a mother who vanishes one day; and the story in the past where a grieving mother brings her dead child back to life.
I was impressed with the way the two stories came together at the end.
For me, this story has just the right amount of creepiness.
If anything wakes me up in the night, it will be the deep emotional descriptions of what it means to love and lose.
Silly me.
I believed all the hype and was expecting a real chiller of a ghost story.
What I got was an inane tale rife with clueless characters.
Knuckleheads who opt to take a 5-hour drive to check out a completely iffy lead instead of doing a simple Google search.
Who lack all common sense (Uh oh, these papers need to be destroyed or they could alter the fate of all mankind.
Let’s keep them in one piece and toss them into this old dry well.) Stephen King already wrote the definitive piece on this subject.
Do yourself a favor and swap out your copy of The Winter People for Pet Sematary.
A super-creepy ghost story full of mystery and suspense. Definitely a page-turner I would recommend if (view spoiler)[you like a bit of horror and the undead. (hide spoiler)]
A small Vermont town, rooted in legends that will make the small hairs on the back of your neck stand on edge.
A diary that is uncovered and a secret that is finally released all culminate in the ending of this novel.Flipping back and worth between 1908 and present day introduces us to all the main players and the different story lines that eventually all converge together.
In 1908, legend has it that Sara Harrison Shea was brutally murdered and still haunts the town to present day.
Sara's diary is uncovered in present day after a couple of people in the town have died mysteriously, or disappeared.
⭐⭐⭐⭐⭐ / 5Note: this review was changed from 2016. This novel was my first time reading Jennifer McMahon and the book that started it all. I originally gave this a 4 star review but have modified it to 5 on account of the fact that I haven’t stopped thinking about it even now, 2 years later, and recommending it to everyone. This book was freaky AF and I don’t recommend reading it in the dark.... and especially not alone in the dark. I loved THE WINTER PEOPLE and if you like books that have a supe
⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️ / 5Note: this review was changed from 2016.
This novel was my first time reading Jennifer McMahon and the book that started it all.
I originally gave this a 4 star review but have modified it to 5 on account of the fact that I haven’t stopped thinking about it even now, 2 years later, and recommending it to everyone.
This book was freaky AF and I don’t recommend reading it in the dark....
and especially not alone in the dark.
I loved THE WINTER PEOPLE and if you like books that have a supernatural aspect then I HIGHLY recommend it.
Mysterious, scary, full of strange old legends and set in rural Vermont, The Winter People has all the makings of a classic ghost story.
Locals avoid the area.Back in 1908, Sara Harrison Shea lives in this farmhouse with her husband and six year old daughter, Gertie.
When Alice goes missing on a chilly January morning and Ruthie is looking around the house for clues to find her disappeared mother, she comes across some old diary entries of Sara, in which Sara recounts the events surrounding the death of her daughter and some weird occurrences from her own childhood.The story that follows is in a dual timeline.
Once I started, I couldn't put it down.
Turns out others have gone missing, and there is talk of an old diary that gives directions to bring back the dead for seven days, providing...Something happened about half way through, although I was still ripping through pages, it became a little too far-fetched for me.
I just couldn't get over how implausible it was becoming.
Also, the characters started behaving in ways that seemed debatable.Oh well, this is probably the perfect read for anyone who wants a good, creepy ghost story.
Maybe just not my type of read.
I loved the spookiness, the haunting plot and the intensity of this ghost story that jumps between different time periods. I thought it was 5 star from the beginning but I was so nervous that the author could not deliver a 5 ending. I was wrong, this is a solid story from beginning to end. The author wrapped up all my questions and I loved how it all came together. This book delivered all the attributes I like in a ghost story.
I was so excited about reading her work I moved on shortly thereafter and picked up the audio CD of The Winter People.
Delee’s review had already sparked my curiously of this book but reading the Night Sister bumped my curiosity to a longing.
The Winter People was not as good as the Night Sister in my opinion.
But it was still a damn good book.
The story has you so hooked it’s better than any drug on the street… please take my word for that.
The last time a book made me call everything into question like this was with Pet Semetary.
West Hall, a small town somewhere in Vermont, is plagued by mysterious disappearances; the most strange of all being the one of Sarah Harrison Shea, who was later found dead in a field behind her house - just one month after the tragic death of her young daughter, Gertie.
Fascinated by its contents, Ruth becomes sucked into a century old mystery - until she realizes that past events might have a connection to the present in the town of West Hall, where old folk tales warn of something bad happening in the woods.I approached this book with considerable expectations, but it was ultimately a let down.
The Winter People was my first Jennifer McMahon book.
I wanted to read it because the premise sounded pretty good, I like a spooky ghost story (if it’s well written), and from what I’ve heard McMahon has a popular following.So this was an “in between” book for me, meaning that I neither loved nor hated it.
The Winter People enters as a ghost/paranormal story, but for many readers it may not end with what you had wanted.
The success of a story like this hinges on the final result because that is the set up.
