https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/8667848-a-discovery-of-witches
At first, I thought that this book was going to be an intelligent Twilight for grown-ups--the main character wasn't helpless, thought for herself, didn't immediately adore her bloodsucking, murderous stalker or find his abusive behavior endearing, and didn't seem interested in losing her entire identity to the first good-looking guy who wanted to eat her.
Diana goes from being subject to object almost the very moment that she decides that Matthew, despite being a deadly creature who has been stalking her, might not be so bad after all, and takes little action for the rest of the book except to travel back and forth from Matthew's vampire mother's castle (yes, really) in France (which she comes to think of as her home alarmingly quickly) and her aunt's magical house in England America (New England?), which apparently isn't special enough for her anymore.
Harkness has several plot lines going: the mysterious Ashmole 782 manuscript, the forbidden love affair between Diana the relunctant witch and Matthew the 1,000 + years old vamp, the mysterious death of her parents, the possible extinction of the supernatural beings, the Congregation wanting to know the extent of Diana's power, tracing Diana's DNA, and the threat of a witch/vamp war.
The excessive alchemical details get annoying, as does the DNA discussions(and you'd better know what mtDNA is because I don't think the book does a good job explaining it.
I CAN BARELY CONTROL MYSELF WHEN YOU'RE AROUND.Diana: Oh well, I'm sure it's fine.Matthew: I FORBID YOU TO DO VARIOUS THINGS.ALSO, YOUR LIFE IS IN DANGER SO WE'RE GOING TO VISIT MY MOM.
DID I MENTION I'M FRENCH?Diana: Hey, for serious you can't just tell me what to do all the time.Matthew: I AM COLDLY FURIOUS.ALSO, IT MAKES ME SAD WHEN YOU DISOBEY ME.
These few short weeks have shown me that you are my one true love!Matthew: OH HEY DID I MENTION, YOU KNOW THAT TIME I KISSED YOU IN FRONT OF MY MOM?
Sorry Bronze Horseman, A Discovery of Witches has taken the #2 spot for my favorite book <3
I’m not really sure who this book is aimed at; it’s a very pedestrian, traditional romance wrapped up in a nearly 600 page, painfully slow tale filled with history and science.
If I am going to struggle my way through a sappy romance, the least I would expect is a good sex scene!The female lead is Diana, who is a highly intelligent woman and well respected in her field.
She manages to cram in alchemy, paranormal groups, magic, evolution, mythology, medieval knights, politics, DNA testing, yoga, and wine tasting, not to mention (view spoiler)[time travel (hide spoiler)] before this book is done.
Upon checking, I then found that this book is almost 800 pages long, which is more than almost all of my fantasy DTB's.
Wow.I started reading this book just after midnight, thinking I might see how it started before I got some sleep.
I think it was somewhere around the 3-5% mark that I noticed that even though I was tired I did not want to stop reading.
It has been a very long time since I have read a book that so captivated me and enthralled me.
THIS IS ACTUALLY ZERO stars, but it won't be listed if I put zero, so, just so you know - ZERO!.I thought this was going to be a really entertaining read, but I'm giving up.
can anyone think of where they might have read this?
What I've learned thus far is that the author is very proud of her knowledge of Oxford and the library there.
I might have found the energy to finish this one off, but I can't imagine reading three books like this one.
I've actually stopped reading a book that I felt was a waste of time.

This is easily going to be the best book that I will read this year, and is going in my top 10 list of best fiction books of all time!
I knew that the author was setting the stage for all that was to come, and while it may seem slow at first, you will be very grateful as you continue in the book.
I tend to get very emotionally involved with books and characters that I love; I already miss spending time with these characters and I am desperate to continue living in their magical world!
I was also much intrigued by Matthew Clairmont’s genetic research into the evolution of witches, vampires, and daemons and how this related to Diana’s research in alchemy.Thus, A Discovery of Witches had a lot of potential for me, but there were three problems that sapped my enjoyment:The first is that the book is simply way too long.
The most unbelievable part of the entire romance, though is that [removed spoiler — Read it here.]Thirdly, there are a lot of minor plot issues that just don’t fit into a well-developed fantasy, especially once we leave the academic atmosphere of Oxford and the book starts to feel like Harry Potter.
Then suddenly, it wasn't.
Wasn't interesting, that is.
She likes tea!
But it was too little, too late.
Everything that should have been happening/discovered/talked about in the middle of the book ('cause it was tea time!) was crunched into the last part of the story.It looks like this is a trilogy, but I seriously doubt I'm going to attempt to read any more of these.
It looks like the author did a lot of research to bring this book to life, but it just wasn't for me.I'd recommend this to someone who enjoys slow-paced books with a lot of attention to detail.
The book started out so well with an interesting protagonist, a bibliophile's dream setting, and wonderful descriptions of illustrated manuscripts.
Edward- er, I mean Matthew becomes her very protective vampire husband and, in spite of the fact that his list of superlative credentials continues to grow, this superman's top priority seems to be feeding her and giving her foot massages.
Without these character anomalies, the text has no conflict and the plot is broken.
What I did love about this book were the descriptions of the texts and the settings.
The author does a lovely job bringing to life the various settings and props of her story.
Matthew and Diana are drawn to each other from the moment they meet, BUT it’s so subtle that you aren’t sure that’s what is happening.
And that’s probably why it gets a pass.I never really thought about it (before this book forced me too), but it’s the things that insta-love seems to be comprised of, rather than the insta-love itself, that I take issue with—fluttery eyelashes, wild proclamations of ardent, enduring (but wholly untried) love, and the accompanying false sense of urgency.
But that’s the way things were, and getting mad about it isn’t going to change anything, and besides, Dukes are HAWT.So is Matthew.
Vampires, witches, and daemons aren't like you and me--in fact, our lives are infinitely more interesting than theirs.
And neither is A Discovery of Witches.When I decided I had a life to live, Matthew was fervently explaining how daemons, witches, and vampires might be going extinct!
I tried really hard, but wow this book was boring. I think it reminded me way too much of The Historian, which was the biggest waste of 900+ pages I've ever read. I think it's because I've done way too much academic research in my 20 years of schooling to ever find it remotely entertaining.I think the part where the witches, vampires, demons, etc. do yoga together pretty much killed it for me.(Okay, it's probably more of a calm indifference, but had I wasted any more time this would be more fitting.)
I knew I'd enjoy a re-read even as I finished the third book since there are so many great historical details as well as more developed characters, later on, but I think I may have enjoyed this novel more this time around purely for its own sake.Just knowing what happens at the end and where Diana winds up is good enough to chortle over, all by itself.
It's true that I expected a novel with a scholarly feel, and it's equally true that I expected a witch with equal parts frailty and overpowered magic, but unlike a number of completely unfair reviews, I didn't have a problem with characters that displayed actual human complexities.
it looks good, like it could be a fun time, but nothing is happening, it's limp, it's useless.hmmm, where do i even start?
i got about halfway through and just gave up, because:- this is a thin little Urban Fantasy & Romance that has been tricked up to be a kind of literary romantic horror novel.
now i don't mind little Urban Fantasy & Romance novels.
how many fuckin times do i have to read about our tedious heroine going to the library and finding that a bunch of preternaturals are stalking her?
BORED NOW.i tried to like this one, i really tried.
Though it doesn't beat the Harry Potter series (and nothing ever will), it sure is up there in the running with my favorites.
Yes, there are some points in the book where the romance seems a bit "Twilight-y." However, that was not the author's intention and I'm sure I just took it that way because I had read Twilight first (the only vampire books I have ever read, and probably the only ones I'll EVER compare other vampire stories to.
If you've read Twilight, you may or may not compare the romance to it, but I feel that Diana and Matthew's relationship was far less awkward, more natural, and sweet.
I even forwent an evening meal to finish it.A Discovery of Witches is one of the most enjoyable books that I have read in a very long time and I loved the feeling of being completely submerged in a different life and a different world.I really liked Diana and admired her verve and athleticism, so different from my own book-worm, sedentary nature.
I think Diana asserted herself when she needed to - I wasn’t looking for her to make feminist speeches.Reading this book was so satisfying and I felt that I was getting just the right mix of romance, adventure, history, character development and magic.
"It begins with absence and desire.It begins with blood and fear.It begins with a discovery of witches." This trilogy is like no other paranormal book I’ve ever read. The world is huge and the author not only takes us around the world but also tells us about its history through the Book of Life. The protagonist of the story has distanced herself from her magic and any other supernatural concept in the world after she lost her parents as a child. The protagonist’s lack of knowledge allows the r
Matthew, like the others, wants to know the contents of the book of life, but not to destroy another species but to find out how to protect them all from extinction as they seem to be getting weaker by every generation.
Putting aside the, again cliche, vampire possessiveness, Matthew is a pretty great guy, easy on the eyes, and his character mixes with diana’s very well.I’m writing this review after reading all three books, don’t worry there are no spoilers, and can confidently say that every single character introduced throughout the trilogy plays off of the other characters amazingly and they each have a role of their own.
Our main protagonist, Diana, is a historian who is studying at the Bodleian Library, and she is also a witch from a very pure bloodline, but she doesn’t practice her witchcraft because of a dark event that happened to her parents.
And I love slow, character driven stories, but in my personal opinion, don’t even think this is a character driven book.
I also truly believe the next book in the series will be better, since we finally have a plot now, but I just don’t care enough about Diana or Matthew to read on.
Redeemed only through a nice use of language.Initial assessment: Harlequin romance meets Twilight.
Yes, that's how strong her moral determination is--looking for a ladder trumps principle.Stereotypes annoy me, and A Discovery of Witches is full of romantic stereotypes.
Bookish orphaned heroine meets dark, brooding man.
Initially annoyed by his arrogance, she segues quickly into accommodation, and then lust.
We are supposed to rave because it's a vampire and witch, and somehow that makes it all different.
Except more than being vampire and witch, they are really doctor-geneticist and historian.
She drew me with the enchanting mysteries of magic and books: “The leather-bound volume was nothing remarkable.
The protagonist Diana Bishop is a witch coming out of the magic closet; she also likes to go rowing, which the author tells us at every opportunity.
The protagonist goes on to discover what she is capable of in a tale of magic oozing with possibilities.
I wanted to read about a woman who learns about herself and the world through her own willpower not because of the help of an apparently powerful vampire nerd.
I read this book back in 2011. I marked it five stars. I put it on my favorites list.I'm hunting 2011 Shelby down to kick her ass. I wanted so much to enjoy this. I'm reading it with some of the bestest people..I just give up. The wording..the insta love..the clueless female. Just can't. I sorry. Book you got kicked off the favorite list.
A Discovery of a Crappy Book.
This book is terrible.
Why oh why were the stupid witches discovered.
Here is the plot:Day One.I went to the library.
I am a witch; he is a vampire.
I am a witch; he is a vampire.
I had lunch and did some yoga.Day Three.I went to the library.
I had lunch and did some yoga.Day Three.I went to the library.
Today's book glowed when I touched it.
I am a witch.
He is a vampire.
I had lunch and did some yoga.This is seriously like the first 200 pages of the book.
But I’ve got a little more news for you before you decide to read this book.There’s no boinking in A Discovery of Witches.
A Discovery of Witches is a boinkless non-YA vampire romance, which is as rare a creature as the ancient texts Diana studies.
I hear there’s a movie in works, and I will watch it solely to see how they portray the Bishop house.Despite Diana’s annoying degradation of IQ, reading A Discovery of Witches is an enjoyable experience.
I’m looking forward to Book 2 (more Bishop house, please!).
UPDATE AUGUST 2016:This was my 4th time reading this book and I enjoyed it more than ever! No doubts about this being my most favorite paranormal story of all times.My Diana and Matthew: “It begins with absence and desire.It begins with blood and fear.It begins with a discovery of witches." I am not exaggerating when I say that this is the most fascinating paranormal story I have ever read in my life. Discovery of Witches is splendid combination of history, science, romance and action. This book
No doubts about this being my most favorite paranormal story of all times.My Diana and Matthew:
I am not exaggerating when I say that this is the most fascinating paranormal story I have ever read in my life.
This book is full of knowledge and interesting facts wrapped up in beautiful paranormal story.Discovery of Witches is kind of book that will make you fly over the pages, eager to find out what will happen next and than make you feel like re-reading it all over again right after you finish.
Discovery of Witches is story about independant witch Diana and enigmatic vampire Matthew.
Panicked, she returns the book to the stacks, but it is too late--word is out that she has discovered the lost Ashmole 782 and now all species of creatures are after her.Enter Matthew Clairmont, renowned scientist and vampire.
He feels drawn to Diana, feeling the need to protect her from the other creatures, despite witches and vampires being notorious separatists.
They are thrown into an uneasy friendship when the worlds of witches, vampires and daemons descend upon Diana, all looking for the manuscript.
A Discovery of Witches: A Novel is one of the best books I've read in quite a while.
As a witch, she is trying to find a root to the three magical races (with the other two being daemons and vampires).
In walks Matthew Clairmont, vampire and obvious love interest, who is also a scientist studying blood stuffs (obviously).I’ll be honest; both times I skipped over the romance aspects of this book because that stuff just doesn’t interest me.
I also got tired of Matthew and his maman Isabeau.
Having read through to the end of the series already, I was looking for little hints I may have missed the first time but I didn’t notice anything major that jumped out at me (Rowling spoiled us for that so much that this automatically becomes an instinct when we revisit books after a series ends).
This novel is a masterpiece.It's tempting to compare it to other works so as to characterize it but to do so would be a disservice. Prof. Harkness writes well and her story-telling is engaging and suspenseful. She masterfully weaves together history, science, alchemy, illuminated manuscripts, love, sex, war, and family dynamics.You'll enjoy this novel and then you'll be eager for the sequel.Highly recommended.SR.
