https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/35657511-warlight
In 1945 our parents went away and left us in the care of two men who may have been criminals.  When we are young we rely on the people who surround us to introduce us to the world, to explain the many elements of life that can be so confusing, overwhelming, or simply opaque to young eyes. Some of this knowledge can only come from first-hand experience, but it helps to have adults at hand, of a trustworthy sort, who can help us along the road of becoming. Nathaniel (aka Stitch) is fourteen. His
His sister, Rachel, (aka Wren) is sixteen when their parents depart for Singapore on mysterious government assignments after the war, leaving them in the care of the boarder they call “The Moth,” and a fluid cast of what can only be considered dodgy characters, reminiscent of Caravaggio from The English Patient, who was both a criminal and a spy.Questionable they may be, at first glance anyway, but they are a remarkably colorful lot.
It is among these remarkable personalities that Nat and Rachel are introduced to the realities of a world that exists largely in shadows, the dim light redolent of wartime London, or warlight of the title.
From the title itself, “Warlight”, to the luring first line in the novel - “In 1945 our parents went away and left us in the care of two men who may have been criminals”......I was completely captivated to the end.Nathaniel—is an adult writing about his life.
The siblings and their mother also have nicknames…very symbolic to this novel: everyone being a substitute.
Smugglers and low lives replace parents.
From Nathaniel’s childhood to his adult years he is most unsettled with his mother.
The questions that troubled Nathaniel about his mother -things not fitting together- haunting & mysterious —were insightful about post war life.
Those who had been working in the shadows during WW2 are now being asked to transition to a new war that would eventually be referred to as The Cold War. Some, like Rachel and Nathaniel’s mother and father, want to walk away from their clandestine work, but with the powerful enemies they have made, that is proving impossible.
The interesting friends and associates, especially of Darter, who Stitch and Wren come into contact with provide a view of alternative lifestyles that are sometimes disconcerting, but whether they know it or not, those brief contacts with those people are expanding their definitions of what a normal life looks like.
This might have been a coming of age novel but it’s not. It might have been a post WWII novel but it’s not. It might have been a family drama of sorts but it’s not. The narration is messy, the plot is pointless and the premise is unbelievable. Warlight meandered about without a glimmer of light at the end of the tunnel.
Warlight is a novel about the secret underlife of identity and about how we seek to construct memory in a narrative form to sustain a structure of order.
Thus if you're going to write a novel about a son seeking to piece together his mother's life after her death it's a simple stroke of genius to make her a secret agent.
All our parents are secret agents.
As the author says at the end, "We order our lives with barely held stories." As you'd expect with Onjaadte, Warlight is beautiful, poetic, romantic, fabulously constructed but, more surprisingly, it's also very exciting.
By following Nathaniel in his formative years, Ondaatje presumably intends to explore the aftereffects of war, to examine how a family is devastated by a pressing obligation to their country.
Who Nathaniel’s parents were during the war, the seemingly questionable behavior of The Moth, and the criminal deeds of his acquaintances are either easily discernable or undisguised.
And, yes, the narrative is justifiably nonchronological, mimicking how memory does not follow a linear path, but these glimpses into Nathaniel’s past are lusterless because he doesn’t change by the end of the book.
Had Ondaatje opted to follow Rachel, Warlight might have been salvaged.
After experiencing much of their teen years through Nathaniel’s recollections, there is a leap from the time Nathaniel is about 18 until about a decade later.Is this a spy story?
Simultaneously, I felt the pathos of knowing that all the other people involved in the story would have their own perspective on the events of that time – and that all of them would be as real and true to their lives as Nathaniel’s story was for him.For me, this book solidified my impressions of Michael Ondaatje’s status as a genius of storytelling.
Your parents left you with two dodgy characters while they left for a year-long trip! Neither our storyteller, Nathaniel (Stitch) nor his sister, Rachel (Wren) know either man very well. He slowly unravels answers. Each one reveals more questions. It’s probably better that way. I was fourteen at the time, and Rachel nearly sixteen, and they told us we would be looked after in the holidays by a guardian, as our mother called him—we used to call him “The Moth,” a name we had invented. Ours was a f
Your parents left you with two dodgy characters while they left for a year-long trip!
Neither our storyteller, Nathaniel (Stitch) nor his sister, Rachel (Wren) know either man very well.
I was fourteen at the time, and Rachel nearly sixteen, and they told us we would be looked after in the holidays by a guardian, as our mother called him—we used to call him “The Moth,” a name we had invented.
Rachel had already told me she suspected he worked as a criminal.
Our parents must have assumed he was reliable.
As to whether The Moth’s criminality was evident to them, we were not sure.
I wish I hadn't read thisBecause then I'd still have it to readJust stunning.
I am going to leave this unrated. At 35% I am putting this one down, unfinished. Usually enjoy this author for the wonderful way he uses words, and this book did have some of that, but the story just did not resonate with me. Maybe it's my mood, maybe I'll pick it up again sometime, but for now I'm done.
Key moments in their lives, such as Rachel's epileptic fits are nonchalantly but expertly dealt with, thereby building an underlying sense that there are hidden depths, safety and protection that they can count on from The Moth and his cohorts.Nathaniel experiences the shadows of London and wartime activities, gaining insights into the corruption of greyhound racing and night river trips, entering empty homes, having sex with Agnes Street, not her real name, and so much more, Nathaniel is to learn that there is much he is unaware of.
The older Nathaniel begins to piece together the past and throw light on the clandestine characters, most notably his mother as a spy, and events, existing below the radar, perceived only in the dim warlight where much is unseen and redacted in a pivotal period of his and Rachel's life that is to mark them indelibly.
A Lost Inheritance We continued through the dark, quiet waters of the river, feeling we owned it, as far as the estuary. We passed industrial buildings, their lights muted, faint as stars, as if we were in a time capsule of the war years when blackouts and curfews were in effect, when there was just warlight and only blind barges were allowed to move along this stretch of river. I watched the welterweight boxer whom I had once perceived as harsh and antagonistic turn and look towards me, talkin
One of these men is a lodger in their London house whom they call "The Moth." He is benevolent but distant, disappearing for days at a time to leave the 14-year-old narrator (Nathaniel, more generally known as "Stitch") and his older sister Rachel to their own devices.
The story resumes again, fifteen years on, in a beautiful group of villages in North Suffolk (photo below) known as "The Saints," where his mother grew up.
For although the narrator moves well forward in his own life, he makes it a vantage point from which to look even further back into his mother's story, to the interwar years and her activities during the War itself.
But it does not do the disappearing act before leaving behind the story of the 'scar' – the scar hidden inside the wound.
And the thing about scars is that they are permanent, or nearly so.Nathaniel was unfortunate to receive one such scar early on in his life, in 1945, when he was 14-years old to be precise.
Nathaniel never remained the same since that day.Conjuring the impressions of life and its shadows in the rear-view mirror of his main protagonist many years hence, Ondaatje creates a poignant picture of faith and forgery.
A very different sort of coming of age story, with the most dramatic first sentence to entice you into this world. 1945. Post war, bombed out London. Nathaniel and Ruth.. teenage brother and sister left in the care of a man called “The Moth” a shady character, while their parents go awayto Singapore.A mysterious tale that is full of adventure ..and secrets that Nathaniel becomes aware of as he ages.My first Michael Ondaatje novel. Will be reading more of him!
A teenaged boy and his slightly older sister find themselves attending separate but proximate boarding schools rather suddenly one year while their parents have taken off for Singapore.
The boy and his sister find their way among an oddball group of scammers and outsiders, none of whom want the wider world to know what they are doing.
When the teens find their mother's trunk--the one she packed for Singapore-- hidden in the basement, much confusion and uncertainty ensues.
Audio is a wonderful way to enjoy this title, though truthfully, the Alfred A.
Quiet, contemplative coming-of-age/historical fiction novel set in England in 1945 just after World War II ends.
The unveiling of what is really going on and who their parents and the dubious friends are is a slow reveal, but Ondaatje's stellar writing and the moody, dreamy atmosphere he calls forth kept me spellbound.Just lovely - this is my first Ondaatje novel (I KNOW!!) but it won't be my last.
I'd be very surprised if this didn't end up on the Booker longlist in a few weeks.
A 4.5 for me, but I may come back and change my rating to a 5 if this continues to linger in my heart and mind.
Longlisted for the Man Booker Prize 2018There is plenty to like about this book - it is always readable, the plotting is clever and some of the stories are fascinating, but for me it never quite lived up to its potential.The opening draws you in quickly: "In 1945 our parents went away and left us in the care of two men who may have been criminals.".
I did enjoy parts of this book a lot but I don't see it as a potential winner, particularly so soon after Ondaatje won the Golden Booker.
Now longlisted for the 2018 Booker Prize and with a postscript to my review added after its longlisting.  So we began a new life. I did not quite believe it then. And I am still uncertain whether the period that followed disfigured or energised my life. I was to lose the pattern and restraint of family habits during that time and, as a result, later on, there would be a hesitancy in me, as if I had too quickly exhausted my freedoms. In any case I am now at an age where I can talk about it, of ho
He uses the unsort opportunity (and some of the more dubious skills he learnt from his own post-war activities with the Darter and his associates) to find more about his mother’s immediately post-war activities, including her relationship with the Dickensian-named Marsh Felon – a character whose very name alongside the shadowy part-criminal activities of many of the characters, drew me into the world of Great Expectations (which I remember reading as a child) and whose buildeering activities reminded me of the brilliant, recent children’s novel Rooftoppers – a favourite of my oldest child.Over time he uncovers unexpected and hidden links and connections between characters and events: 
[3.5 stars]A very good novel. Ondaatje has a way of capturing the reader, transporting them and creating a rich atmosphere. There's clearly a lot of research done for this story—though at times evidently too much, perhaps, as it tends to get a bit verbose and bog down the narrative. But I loved Nathaniel as a main character and coming to understand things in shadows and glimpses as he discovers them himself. It's an intriguing story with lovely writing.
What a terrific read, charming and nostalgic on the adventures of childhood as with his delightful "The Cat's Table", and thrilling over the persisting dangers of past transgressions in the name of country, as in his “Anil’s Ghost.” Here we have a narrator, Nathaniel, at far post-war perspective, recounting his shaken world after his parents disappeared on him and his sister in their adolescence in London right after World War 2, leaving them in the care of a shady character they call “The Moth”.
A woman takes them into the woods in the dark, and speaks as a poem, or song: "It's a warm evening .
Meaning "difficult." "Heavy." We were told this at some point by The Moth, as if it was a warning.
My sister and I got used to parroting the word back to each other--"schwer."There will be many schwer moments.
When I started reading this I chanced upon this thought on some social media site: Few items are made from paper and the best poetry isn't written on them.
Because this is the best poetry.I do not need to know the color of hair or what shape the ears.
This was not a good book, but I don't think it's over between me and Ondaatje.
I'm sorry, I know that 'boring' is the kind of pedestrian critique that we try to stay away from while reviewing, but I'm not sure I've ever read a book that felt this utterly pointless.
The whole thing is bizarrely perfunctory and passionless, and there is no doubt in my mind that Warlight's inclusion on the Booker longlist is an homage to Ondaatje's illustrious career more than a reflection of the quality of this particular novel.
It appears to them that the Moth has a criminal nature and as the story continues, we meet other people who seem to be living within a dream state.
As Nathaniel learns and grows he discovers his mother's role in the war.This story is told in two parts, that of a brother and sister abandoned and then later when Nathaniel attempts to piece together the connections, the roles, and the parts that were played by the people who surrounded him especially his mother.
What is the truth as Nathaniel tries to figure out the complex relationship that ultimately exists between his mother and he?Told with beautiful prose, this telling is as murky as the life of its characters.
“We order our lives with barely held stories.”Here lies the central message of the book.
The parents tell the siblings that while they are in Singapore, Rachel and Nathaniel will remain in England, each installed in their respective boarding schools.
The book reads as a mystery, filled with danger and suspense.
The book demands patience; only now do some of the questions begin to be answered.
We, the readers and Nathaniel, search for answers--about Nathaniel’s mother, about his father and “The Moth” and “Darter” and about the other mysterious figures encountered.
Longlisted for the Man Booker Prize 2018Michael Ondaatje meditates on how we construct ourselves through the past - and he does it in elegic prose, highlighting the details that become instructive to understand the bigger picture, and illustrating the human need to somehow make sense of our own personal history.
In "Warlight", this personal history is intertwined with world history, and like a historian tries to find the most enlightening ways to understand past events, our protagonist, Nathaniel, is looking for the bits and pieces that make up the most rounded version of his own person.This novel has two parts: In 1945, 14-year-old Nathaniel and his sister Rachel are left behind in Lodon when their parents are moving to Singapore.
Nathaniel was 14 and his sister Rachel almost 16 in 1945 when their parents left for a year's stay in Singapore, leaving the children in the care of their lodger who they called The Moth.
The father (whose past may have been even more mysterious than Rose's) and Rachel basically disappear from the book after Part One. As an adult, Nathaniel was recruited by the Intelligence Service and used his job to try to trace Rose's movements during and after World War II.
The book shifts back and forth in time and there are no tidy conclusions.
This may be my favorite book so far this year.Just when I thought I may no longer be interested in reading novels, this one comes along.
The story begins in England with 14-year-old Nathaniel and his slightly older sister Rachel saying good-bye to their parents who are (apparently) off to Asia to work for an English company.
When at home, they are to be left in the care of strangers, ostensibly friends of their parents but people they don't know.What follows is a story of family love and strains counterpointed against espionage and the ravaged post-war English world.
A wonderful and above all very mysterious novel.
Two teenagers are abandoned by their parents who apparently still had undercover operations abroad to perform after the ending of WW-II.
These men don’t reveal anything to the children as to the predicaments their parents are in.
The mother remains an enigma and her past obscure, even when she re-emerges from her travels after years abroad.
Only tiny fragments of her past are revealed.
I wonder why this book has not been chosen for the Booker Prize shortlist for 2018.
In my opinion, this is a special book and Booker Prize worthy!
In the opening pages of this beguiling novel, the narrator Nathaniel Williams is looking back on 1945, when he was 14, and "our parents went away and left us in the care of two men who may have been criminals." He and his sister Rachel are soon shocked to learn that their mother is not at all who they believed her to be.
The first half of the novel is a coming of age story that deals with the loss of innocence, as circumstances outside Nathaniel's control mean that he has to grow up very fast.
The English Patient, which won the Man Booker in 1992, is set in 1945 and follows a cast of characters after the end of World War II.
Warlight, which is up for the Man Booker now, is set in 1945 and follows a brother and sister after the end of World War II.
The first half of the novel reads like a caper, to borrow a word I've seen used a lot with this book, and the second half is much slower as he tries to collect details and connect the dots.
