https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/92121.Nine_Princes_in_Amber
Lets start with the good: I enjoyed your method of immersing the reader in your fantasy world.
The protagonist's case of amnesia makes it so he must learn all the same things the reader needs to know.
I'm not entirely convinced he's the "good guy." It's sort of like voting for Zeus instead of Hera.
And then you tell us, most of the way through the novel, each one of these brothers could technically make their own perfect reproduction of the original world of Amber, and ALL be kings of identical territories, AND COMPLETELY BYPASS ALL OF THIS FIGHTING TO THE DEATH?!
This series is the first of the two reasons 75% of the books I read are fantasy.
Trying to regain his memory the poor guy soon learned the true story is much deeper than he suspected and to get to the bottom of this he needed to visit a mysterious and fascinating place called Amber.
This ability - to write short and to the point - is completely lost in modern literature.
Modern writers think endless descriptions of food, heraldic, and so on constitute world-building.
This quote was written in Victorian Britain and still rings true:“Nothing is easier to write than scenery; nothing more difficult and unnecessary to read.” Jerome K.
Only true Masters possessed this ability.
Man, all the good stuff has been said to let me be brief:OVERALL FEELING: One of my favorite fantasy pieces; sort of starts out as a PI man who lost his memory and has to figure out that he's the prince of another world.
MARKETING APPEAL: The Amber series is greatly loved; I imagine that it sold well; it took a first person point of view of a wise cracking PI type fantasy hero who discovered the realm of Amber; a conflict of sibling gods who are out for dominance and then discover a great evil.
Superbly written.[image error]FAVORITE METAPHORS: “The night was bargaining weakly with the sun.
Be glad and rejoice!So the world building is pretty luscious and the story is original and fun and intriguing and the plot is fast-paced and there are deviously deceitful characters with potentially great potential and yes I am aware I already said most of this down there ↓↓ but who the fish cares anyway and there is lots of Yummy Swashbuckling Type Stuff (YSTS™) and I am most pleased that some of my subaquatic cousins are featured in the story and there are heavenly Kentucky Fried Lizard Parts, too and also bid red guys + little hairy ones and commas are overrated anyway.This "but" here ⤴ might seem quite innocently inconspicuous to you, and yet it is most completely responsible for the distressing (if a little Zelaznian) predicament I mentioned earlier.
Then again maybe not.✎ Book 2: Guns of Avalon - currently reading.[Pre-review nonsense]Actual rating: 3.33567458 stars.
I expected a more traditional fantasy when picking up this book, but instead got a story of Corwin and his companions travelling between worlds and attempting to reach Amber while also struggling to regain his memory and understanding of what’s going on.This combination of science fiction and fantasy was pretty interesting, and made even more so by the fact that the protagonist himself, as a result of his amnesia, holds as little information as the reader to begin with about the world of Amber and how it works.
*** 4 *** "...“I like libraries. It makes me feel comfortable and secure to have walls of words, beautiful and wise, all around me. I always feel better when I can see that there is something to hold back the shadows.” ..." Nine Princes in Amber is the first installment in a series of 10 rather shortish books. They are divided into 2 arcs and the first one is told from Corwin’s perspective, while the next set make his son's story the main event. Although we see the happenings from this family li
Whoever ends up with the crown will have to dodge the treachery of all his siblings and their allies, while ruling Amber and trying to protect its people from problems starting to emerge from the Shadows and the forces of Chaos.
As he starts to remember, he discovers that he is one of the nine princes of Amber, the only World which is Real and True, while all other worlds, including our Earth, are just shadows thrown by it.
And Chaos is starting an offensive on the g-d-like siblings of Amber.
My wife became very ill and was bed fast a long time, she also came to the point where she really couldn't read, so I began tracking down audio books for her.
Since I had the books anyway I listened to them in my work vehicle).Since that time I have found I really like audio books and have often bemoaned that these books, the Amber Series were never done in audio.Well now it has been and as soon as Audible offered the books I began downloading them.
Kada citam neke od ovih starijih knjiga prosto mi je tesko da poverujem da za ovih 40 godina nisu ostavljeni u prasini i da su pojedine (mnoge) knjige bolje od danasnjih.Ako uzmemo ovu knjizicu prosto je neverovatno da na svega 170tak strana imamu pricu dubine i tezine daleko vece nego mnoge epske knjige na 400 i vise strana. Mada sa druge strane moglo bi se reci da je minus sto imamo malo likova ali su barem svi odlicno razradjeni.Ako niste citali obavezno overite, ako jeste vreme je za obnovu znanja :)
Literally.) and that this makes him basically a god.These princes can, in fact, modify Shadow worlds with just a minor effort of will(but not Amber itself), travel freely between universes and do a number of other nifty things.The rest of the book covers, more or less, his struggles to regain his memories and win the throne of Amber itself, now held by Eric, one of his brothers.Too bad that, while having a great premise and being full of good ideas, the book fails (quite badly) to deliver.Its first and most obvious fault is that it's so very hasty: Corwin goes from "I wake up without knowing who I am" to "I single-handedly wage war to decide the fate of all the universes" in about 30 pages!
Opet sam ostao fasciniram početkom priče, kao i prvi put, onih par prvih podglavlja koji su za mene vanserijski dobro urađeni.
ali, opet sam imao problema sa piščevim stilom, koji mi opet nije najbolje sjeo, ponekad se izgubio čak pa zbog toga se ne mogu natjerati da naguram na svih pet zvjezdica.
Ali stoji da je ova priča veoma, veoma dobra.4*_____________________________Veoma dobro!Ovakav fantasy još nisam pročitao.
Orginalna priča sa dovoljnom dozom misterije, zanimljivim 'storytellingom', odličnim razrađenim i zanimljivim likovima i to sve spakovano na 231 stranice, što je u današnje vrijeme izgleda nemoguće, a da knjiga nema jedno 600+ stranica.
However, very early in the story Corwin gets his rug pulled under his feet and all it takes is one word: Amber.I swear I could feel the hairs on my hands standing while I was reading about his initial reaction to this word and the funny thing is that in that this early in the story he (and we as readers) is totally clueless about what this word means, but as the mere mentioning of this word caused a storm in his head, he feels it must be an answer to all the questions he yet has to learn how to form.
The idea behind this series is really something and the way it gets developed is truly wonderful, but I’m getting ahead of myself.The second thing that I really love about this novel is protagonist, Corwin.
It's still a fantastic read after all these years.
That's amazing.I re-read this every 5 years or so.
It's the start to one of the best series I've ever read.
Zelazny is a super writer & this book started a series that has spawned a lot of other books.
There are 4 other books that follow this one with Corwin as the hero, then Zelazny did another 5 about Corwin's son, Merlin.
Some don't like Betancourt's books, but I think he's done a great job.
A lot better than most of the novels others have finished for Zelazny.
Too much time passes too quickly as Corwin, our hero, allies himself with various brothers, gathers armies from various Shadowlands, wages war on land and on sea, and eventually finds himself jailed.
I couldn’t care less about Amber or even Rebma, its undersea companion nation where the story spends a little more time.
So I’m in for at least the next volume, and trusting that maybe now it will get to a closer, more “real” story where I actually get to know and care about some of the characters, especially Corwin.
kompletan prvi dio Amberskih kronika je jedan stvarno izvrstan fantasy i tu nemam više riječi dodati osim da je Zelazny majstor majstora kada je u stanju napisati i izvrstan SF i izvrstan F.opća kultura - pročitati obvezno!(kad mi već GR nutka da ovo pročitam da mu napišem kako sam već i zaboravio :) )
There are nine princely brothers who want to rule the kingdom of Amber (which is the only real realm, all others - including our earth - being shadows of it), and our first-person protagonist Corwyn is one of them.
So what happens when many people want a single seat of power happens in this novel too - war, murder and mayhem.The story starts abruptly with Corwyn trapped in our world without a memory.
About the only 70s hangover (it was originally published in 1970) it suffers is the characters' constant lighting up of cigarettes and downing of drinks (wait, that still applies -- and it's not like cigarettes are going the way of the Edsel, either).I think it's a classic in its genre if only for the imagination that went behind the worlds Zelazny created (Amber, the Forest of Arden, Remba, etc.).
Sometimes the card will come to life and you can communicate, reaching a hand to it and thus being pulled to wherever that brother or sister happens to be.OK, so it appeals to the fantasy kid in me.
The question is, will the 21st-century kids like it?
When he realizes that he has healed too fast and that he’s being drugged so he’ll stay unconscious, he decides that he better find out what’s going on.The truth is strange: Corwin is one of the nine princes of Amber, the one true world, but for centuries he’s been exiled in the Shadowland we call Earth.
Here we learn what Corwin has been doing for centuries on Earth, meet several of his siblings, discover the way in and out of Amber, meet a race of people who live under the sea, and discover some of the special powers of Corwin’s family.Ah… Corwin’s family… if you can call them a “family.” Corwin’s own description for them is “Machiavellian,” and that about covers it.

wow, i don't think anyone ever regrets picking this book up.it's just so good
He makes it so easy to just fall into the story, no matter how bizarre the setting.
The kind of magic at work in this setting is the type that allows immensely powerful people to warp reality with their thoughts, yet still allows them to have car accidents and get beaten up by a bunch of regular thugs.
In the hands of a less skilled writer I think it would have been unbearable.'Friends' character the protagonist is most like:Corwin is an everyday bloke who just happens to be heir to the shining pinnacle of reality.
Add this to the list of fantasy series and authors I had never read.
It has a child's bookplate with a unicorn in the inside front cover, and this really made it feel like a living book!The basic premise of the book is a man waking up in a hospital in New York with amnesia.
My favorite part absolutely had to be the journey into Remba, the underwater mirror world to Amber.
There are little slang words that slip in, like "dig" for "I get it" and "creamed" for defeated that place this book soundly in the 1970s.
I'll definitely read the next one!
If a Bookshelf/tag was ever a perfect description, then 'oldschool scifi' is it.A solid 3.5 stars, (I wonder why GR has refused to listen for all these years on half star ratings?)This is the second read of this story for me.
Simple, effective and time to move on.You do really need to read with book 2, commit to 250 pages.
I think a lot of people, the younger me included, probably feel there wasn't enough in the first book, but I am confident that after reading the fist 5 pages of book 2, that the story is going to unfold before us, in a deliciously old fashioned way.
The only motive anyone has in this book is a loosely-defined desire for the throne of Amber, which is the only real world in existence.
There are nine princes and, I think, some princesses, and some of them are dead, and one of them has the throne but the main character (another prince with highly selective amnesia) wants it.
There are no rules to the magic except when rules are convenient to move the plot.Again, the sequels improve on all of these, but not enough for me to enjoy this series, and especially this terrible, extremely highly overrated book.
She argues that some generally accepted masterpieces were produced quickly, and that an author of sufficient talent can turn out something in a few weeks which is better than a 'literary' novel that might have taken years to write.
The fight on the Endless Stair!) But, as the series progressed, I thought it got more tired and stale with each book that appeared, and I would, alas, have to classify the last ones as formulaic trash.
Zelazny was no longer creating, just recombining, and it became horribly like listening to a group of D&D players discussing the week's happenings in their current game.I wonder what this example shows?
It still feels very modern even though its 40+ years old.The story begins with Corwin, who has woken in a hospital and seems to be suffering from amnesia.
In this book, I felt the relaying of information and world building worked extremely well.
Following his journey, meeting his companions, and learning about this world, discovering how Corwin came to wake up in that hospital all made this an enjoyable reading experience.For me, perhaps the most telling aspect of this book that hints at its age is the length (or lack there of).
A pioneer among the novels involving the "multiverse," this story portrarys multiple dimensions (or multiuple realities) in fantasy rather than science fiction terms.
Corwin, an immortal and powerful (think god-like) prince of Amber awakes in a hospital with no memories of who he is or how he got there.
He quickly escapes and comes to learn that he is heir to the throne of Amber (the one true world when all of the other realities, including our Earth, are just shadows).
Corwin's other brothers and sisters are engaged in an epic struggle accross shadow realms in an attempt to claim the throne of Amber for theselves.
Zelazny may just become a new favorite of mine. A while ago I read some of his short stories and I thought it was excellent. I saw some reviews on here and decided to give this story a read. I loved it. Great characters and really cool SF elements that make for an exciting read. Plus Zelazny's writing is interesting without being overly flowery so he doesn't waste words telling the story. There is very little filler. A great book.
A quick read that gives an introduction into the intriguing world of Amber. A friend has wanted me to read this series for a while now and he is super happy that I got into it. And I have to say I am too. Each book looks to be a quick read, but I think the author does a nice job (at least in the first one) providing details about the world while still leaving a lot left to be learned. Looking forward to reading more about Corwin and his quest!
My rating 4.8The book "Nine Princes in Amber (The Chronicles of Amber # 1)" by Roger Zelazny, is not without reason, classic science fiction and fantasy.
The story and the world in which the action is happening is not easy to describe because there is as much shadow as Amber.
I think a lot of things are written about this book, so I'm not going to write much about the content, but be assured that the book will be easy to put in a well-designed world and story.
I would recommend the book to all lovers of science fiction and fantasy.
My initial reaction to the novel is a positive one, as it reflects upon the better aspects of pulp fantasy fiction from the 1970s and beyond.
In many ways I feel that this novel is what Michael Moorcock was aiming to create with his Elric novels and yet I feel as if Zelazny succeeded much better at creating a book which reflects a mixture of strange magic and human appeal.
It may be more a reflection on the arrogance and brutality of his protagonists and antagonists.Is Nine Princes in Amber a decent novel then?
