https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/174730.The_Life_of_Greece
The Story of Civilization, Part II: The Life of Greece (The Story of Civilization #2), Will Durant, Ariel Durant (Editor)تاریخ نخستین خوانش: سال 1993 میلادیعنوان: تاریخ تمدن مجلد دوم یونان باستان؛ نویسنده: ویل دورانت؛ آریل دورانت؛ مترجمها: امیرحسین آریانپور: کتابهای یکم و دوّم ؛ فتحالله مجتبائی: کتاب سوّم ؛ هوشنگ پیرنظر: کتابهای چهارم و پنجم؛ ؛ سرویراستار: محمود مصاحب؛ ویراستاران: نادر هدی، خشایار دیهیمی، فتحالله مجتبائی، هرمز همایونپور؛ تهران،سازمان انتشارات؛ 1370؛ در 904 ص؛ فهرست: کتاب اوّل: پ

Edward Gibbon, never the optimist, in his long chronicle of the collapse of the Roman Empire defined history as “little more than the register of the crimes, follies, and misfortunes of mankind.” Will Durant thinks this is a terrible mistake, and his series on the Story of Civilization can in part be seen as a corrective to the Gibbonian view.
But works like Durant’s and Gibbon’s allow us to develop a sense of history, to feel in our bones the many generations that have lived and died before us, to sense our own small place in a progression of works and deed that did not begin with us, and will not end with us.
“No great nation is ever conquered until it has destroyed itself.”After Our Oriental Heritage, The Life of Greece is the second book of the ginormous 11 volume History of Civilization. This book covers the ancient Greece and Hellenistic Near East until the Roman conquest. All the glorious Greece comes to life in this enjoyable, interesting and colorful read with never a dull moment.One loses oneself in this fascinating ancient world surrounded by all the myths and gods, the philosophers, poets, sculptors and scientists.
Unfortunately, they did not live long enough to accomplish their goal, but what they did accomplish was nothing short of amazing.I had expected The Life of Greece, the second volume in the massive Story of Civilization series to be pompous and well-meaning.
Instead, Durant lingers here and makes us realize that Greece did not die with Alexander, nor did it even die with Roman rule.
This helped to clarify some.A quick, partial judgment on the series as a whole before I continue with Volume III: If you knew of a precocious pre-teen or early teen who was interested in history and ancient cultures, you could do a lot worse than set them free with this set.
A friend of mine mentioned that in some ways, this series was like a time capsule from the 1940s (though this installment isn't nearly as bad as Volume I), and that seems fitting.
History comes to life in The Life of Greece !
I have no natural interest in Greek philosophy and have slaved, here a little and there a little, thru this almost 700 page work.
I have been amazed at the energy and intellect of Will Durant in putting together in a five (5) year period of time the most complete history possible of ancient Greek civilization and all it's generous gifts bestowed to us.
I didn't just casually peruse this 2nd volume in the "History of Civilization", I tried to discipline myself to research, cross reference, digest and understand, a chapter at a time the content of the Greek civilization, especially Greek philosophy.
Durant is a great historian for people who aren't usually 'into' history (like myself!) He pulls together an astonishing amount of knowledge into a compelling narrative, stopping to inspect art, architecture, poetry and drama. Though there are doubtless many points for specialist historians to disagree, there are few if any replacements for this masterful work.
The Story of Civilization, after Our Oriental Heritage I decided that I'm going to finish this epic story, one way or another, and it 'd be great if I not only read the book but other referenced books in it and so my journey begun with The Life of Greece earlier this year :) I started the first chapters, then jumped to the greats - The Iliad and the Odyssey by Homer - I re-read Politics by Aristotle and The Republic by Plato, I added the rest of the dialogues to my to read list and got introduced to The Literature of the Golden Age, great books to be read.From the rise of Crete, The Troy war, the Legends, the story of Athens, the Greek mythology, the democratic experience, the Persian wars, Sparta and its great history, Macedonia and Alexander the great!!!
I took a long break from Will Durant after finishing Volume I: Our Oriental Heritage.
That took me a long time on the 10 page a day plan.
I must credit Kazantzakis for giving me a glimpse into the hearts and minds of the Greek people (and I suppose I should also give a nod to Eugenides and Middlesex.)My personal reading odyssey finally led me back to The Life of Greece.
This is mesmerizing history in the tradition of Herodotus and Paul Johnson, not Thucydides and Gibbon.It helps to have a solid set of worldview chops before reading Durant, though.
Many times he criticizes and repudiates only to - begrudgingly, in the final analysis - admit that the conservative old institutions and standards had it right all along.As far as the book's content, I was relieved and thankful to at last digest a well-styled general history of the Greeks after piecing together an image of the civilization through endless classical references in other books and essays.
There are distinctions and differences, naturally, but to read Greek history is to walk through a hall of mirrors.Can't wait to follow Durant to Rome.
This book was an incredible adventure into one of the most fascinating civilizations to have ever existed - one that we see the influences of strongly to this day.
Durant ends the book by saying, "Civilization does not die, it migrates; it changes its habitat and its dress but it lives on.
The decay of one civilization, as of one individual, makes room for the growth of another; life sheds the old skin, and surprises death with fresh youth.
Greek civilization is alive; it moves in every breath of mind that we breathe." And that is not an overstatement.
Another monumental work from Durant, this time covering the history, politics, philosophy, literature, science, economics and art of the Greeks down to their subjugation by the Romans just before the time of Christ.
In a sense, the book is actually too long: they are too many significant figures to remember them all; too many significant developments: political, economic, military, scientific, philosophical, social and artistic to keep a logical track or summary in one's mind; too many colonies and city states, each with its own particular political system and military history to be easily remembered.
بخش های سقراط و محاکمه و اعدام سقراط، شاگردش: افلاطون، و شاگرد افلاطون: ارسطو، و شاگرد جهانگشای ارسطو: اسکندر مقدونی.معمولاً اطلاعات ما نسبت به جهان گشایی اسکندر، از طریق منابع ایرانیه که به طرز غیر محققانه ای جانبدارانه نوشته شدن، اون هم راجع به واقعه ای که دوهزار سال قبل رخ داده و کمترین تأثیر واقعی ای روی زندگی کنونی ما نمی تونه داشته باشه.
با یه شخصیت خیلی پیچیده تر و صد البته جذاب تر سر و کار داریم.اما راجع به ارسطو، به نظر میرسید لحن کتاب، بدون دلیل، خصمانه میشه.
اما انگار ویل دورانت این انتظار رو داره و پی در پی به خاطر اشتباهات ارسطو تمسخرش می کنه.
"Perhaps Aristotle would have developed a thoroughly scientific mind had he not listened so long to Plato (some say for twenty years); the doctor's son struggled in him with the Puritan's pupil, and neither side won; Aristotle never quite made up his mind.
He refuted Plato at every turn because he borrowed from him on every page."These are examples of the benevolent understanding with which Durant infuses his hundreds of pages packed with facts.
THE LIFE OF GREECE includes an amazing collection of knowledge - and this is just the second in a series of similar books, chronicling what we knew of human history when the Durants were working through it.
المجلد الرابع من قصة الحضارة والذي يتضمن جزأين يتحدث كلاهما عن حياة اليونانويقسم الجزء الأول لقسمين:
Those who read history have their favorite historians.
After reading Volume One, Our Oriental Heritage, I was impressed, very impressed, with Durant's knowledge and writing style.
So much so, I went out and purchased the full eleven volume set, despite my recollection when he completed it many years ago that "that was a lot of history" (i.e, who would actually read?).
I had just read a Mentor book, "A History of the World in 240 Pages." Volume II did not disappoint (though there is a lot of detail, hence the rating of 4 [too much detail?:]).
I learned a lot about the origins of certain words and basically got a good enough overview of Greek History that I could probably call someone out if they were talking about it and being totally ignorant.
Also, this book is probably a little dated, I'm sure there have been new archaeological discoveries or rediscovered works (hopefully).
One of the coolest things you learn about is how class struggles have always been around and follow a pattern.
I think Will Durant's purpose is to show us that nothing is truly new (When I read the first book in this volume he said that even the Egyptians, who were as old to the Greeks as the Greeks are to us, thought this).
The first volume of Durant's Story of Civilization was a disappointment, except perhaps for the brief coverage of Gandhi, but here, with volume two, the series takes off and maintains its quality throughout the remaining volumes.Durant's background interest appears to have been philosophy. He is particularly strong on that, but otherwise this serves as a very good introduction to ancient Greece, its history and culture.
It took me more than a year to slog through it. I'm astonished that a human being could actually write a tome chock full with information about such a great and fascinating time and culture. Admittedly there were times that I thought I would give up in some of the less interesting parts, but I feel I am a better man and reader for not doing so. Almost want to read it again, but I'll wait until I turn 70.
Durant describes their profound influence, that surrounds us today, in reference to philosophy, politics, virtually every science or academic subject (math, biology, anatomy, medicine, astronomy, geography, engineering, architecture), and all the arts (sculpture, painting, drama, literature and more).During their heyday, their influence not only spread through the Mediterranean (Italy, France, Spain, North Africa, Middle East), but also north into Central Europe and east through Asia Minor, Persia, the Black Sea, Afghanistan, India and more.
Our admiration for the Greeks does not overshadow the accomplishments and debt we owe to the many other great and small cultures, from the rest of the world, throughout the history of humankind.
I wish I could remember more of what I read in this book, this marvelous contribution to knowledge.
The main thing I gained from this reading is summed up in the preface and the epilogue, both of which point out our debt to Greek civilization.
From the preface: "Excepting machinery, there is hardly anything secular in our culture that does not come from Greece." And, the epilogue: "Civilization does not die, it migrates.
decay of one civilization .
makes room for the growth of another.
. Greek civilization is alive; it moves in every breath of mind that we breathe.
The name of the book is Life of Greece, and it was written 80 years ago by a fellow most any historian would perk his ears up at the mere mention: Will Durant.This book is the second in Durant’s decades-long series of historical tomes called The Story of Civilization, the first being (—I dunno(?)—a book I haven’t read yet), that he first published in 1935.
This is the second of eleven volumes that cover The History of Civilization, which I have been listening to intermittently during the commute to and from work.
For Westerners, Greek history is the bright morning of its civilization and the Hellenic influence is still strong among us today, even in many ways that we never imagine.
The Greeks are the precursors of western intellectual thought and from them arose profound revelations in philosophy, art, medicine, literature, theatre, etc.
But, like golf, you keep coming back again and again, because the value of suddenly profound and insightful revelations make it all worthwhile.
He covers the topic mostly by using a thematic approach tied with an overriding narrative.It takes the author a while to get into his own voice, but when he does the book comes alive and the history and the wisdom of the Greeks will live within the listener.
It's worth wading through those eight or so hours to get to the real story.At about 700 BCE, he starts talking about Sparta and contrasting that with Athens, and the author develops his real theme, "individualism leads to the destruction of the group, but gives creativity and progress".
Thus in later part of the book, the reader without previous knowledge is subjected to a lithany of short biographies and tidbits of information that will probably provide little insight into the period.In one respect my admiration for the author is unchanged his skill in language and ability to express complex thoughts and ideas in simple and accessible way is simply superb.
Many times, especially in the parts of literature or the arts, I got a general idea of what was happening in that time period in Ancient Greece, but I really could grasp or truly absorb all the details that Durant presented.I know every reader has their biased, but I felt that too much time was spent on the literature, arts, plays, and poetry of Ancient Greece and major events, people, and aspects of society could've been fleshed out more.
However, on the scale of the effort and breadth of subject I think it is a fantastic book (almost an encyclopedia.) It is mind boggling how much of what we know about Greece is through second-hand (or even many-hand) accounts.
Then again much of what we know about anyone else is through the Greeks.
So much was lost to the vagaries of time and the prejudice of the classically minded scribes, but apparently a good deal of what survived went to the bonfires of a Christianity that had plagiarized most of its philosophy off of pagan Greece.
The Greeks originally were pirates and warriors.
They also seemed to be the original Mafia, because they demanded protection money from farming communities to protect them.
My favorite part is the story of Pericles and Aspasia.
These two people are my favorite Greeks and I love learning more about them.
Another great part was the story of later Greeks during the Hellenic diaspora with Ptolemy I and II in Egypt.
Each section of history is broken down into the culture, people, religion, arts and architecture.
They gave us our sentence structure, paragraphs, biography, history, and drama.
They gave us medicine and oratory.
I can't authoritatively speak for the research; these are old books; The Life of Greece was published in 1939, and surely some new discoveries have happened in archaeology of ancient Greece since 1939.
But I know I can speak for the quality of the writing which isn't merely good or great: if you love history, it's magical.
One could write reams on the reams that Durant has written: his life of Greece runs the gamut of a little bit of everything one could possibly want to know about the Greeks.
