https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/23281906-the-liar
So, let me begin with the things I most enjoyed in this very sweet and cute love story with a bit of suspense thrown in that leaves you with a warm feeling as you turn the last page.THE SETTINGNora Roberts is the best at creating a small town setting and she does it incredibly well in this story that brings Rendezvous Ridge and its location, Smoky Mountains, Tennessee’s, to life.You immediately have a picture in your head of a slow-paced, friendly town, where everyone knows everyone’s business and secrets, the everyday life of the community and their interaction with each other.The writing is smooth and makes for easy reading.THE MAIN CHARACTERSSHELBYWhat I liked about her was, that despite finding herself in a situation that would break most people, she pulls herself together and deals with it as best she can.
Griff is just sheer perfection <3 <3 <3 <3 <3Loved it, even though I wish it didn't take so long for him to appear, but oh well :DD
The crime/mystery everything to do with her husband worked for me (mostly) but it was all the Hard of Dixie stuff, feuding with an old enemy from school, playing family and the extremely predictable ending that made this book lose stars.
But this kind of ending, no!So, in the end 2.5 stars because half the book was good and I still liked Shelby and her family in the end.Thank you Piatkus for providing me with a free copy for an honest review!
No place is perfect.Our heroine, Shelby, just lost her douchbag of a Yankee husband and came back South a single mother with her sweet little girl, Callie.
Stay for the queso.Nora Roberts writes a helluva great leading man in her books.
But, she'd rather make sure everyone knew that she was going to do whatever it took to get Visa every cent her husband owed them.Because of her, I didn't rate this book as high as I would have, but it was still entertaining enough.
Review posted to: http://www.sweptawaybyromance.com/201... 4 Stars!! Shelby is a twenty four year old widow who is shocked to learn that her husband lead a double life, a life that left her in staggering debt and many, many unanswered questions about the man she married..... When her world seems to be crashing around her, her only thought is that she needs to get home to Tennesse. She needs surround herself and her sweet little girl Callie with her loving family and lifelong friends.While trying
She needs surround herself and her sweet little girl Callie with her loving family and lifelong friends.While trying to get her and Callie settled she learns that she didn't know her husband at all and she's determined more than ever to learn more about the man she so trustingly married.
All in all a somewhat predictable storyline but the charming characters that make up Shelby's family, Shelby & Griff's budding romance and adorable Callie make The Liar well worth reading.* This audio book was narrated by January LaVoy who does a fantastic job!!!
5 Stars on narration!!!
She and her three-year old daughter, Callie, are now saddled with enormous debt instead of the wealth she thought she was inheriting.
Shelby returns to her hometown in the foothills of Tennessee to recreate her life, re-establish relationships with family and friends and start anew.
She gets the attention of Griff Lott, a building contractor, whose bowled over by her and her daughter.
There's plenty of humor, heartbreak and romance with a healthy dose of family dynamics.
There is a mystery element but it just isn't suspenseful.
If you read this as a contemporary romance with a mystery element, you'll have a better reading experience.
I think Nora Roberts' romantic suspense novels are no longer romantic nor suspenseful.
She spends more pages on people's jobs and houses than she does on anything, and after the third conversation in twenty pages in which the protagonist explains the same thing to someone (I've been taking online coursesI I'm going to start a small business!) I stopped caring what happened to her or her wonderful family or their beautiful houses and fulfilling careers.
There was so little conflict that I got bored.
Her love scenes have always been tedious but this time she actually interrupted one in order to continue talking about interior decorating.
The main villain of this story came across more like an absurd person or maybe a lunatic than a calculating or sly one.
And about two main characters...I think the hero was ok for the most part.
I had a hard time connecting with her character.
The story flowed nicely and some parts of it were very entertaining and the supporting characters were interesting and colorful.Anyway, I wouldn't consider this one a satisfying read for me.
It was sad that the book with so much potential ended up becoming another one of those mediocre (almost subpar) stories.
DNF @ 38%I'm bored. Maybe because I really don't care as much as Ms. Roberts seems to do about the proper colour of the walls and of the cabinets.
And the pacing is good, the setting tremendous (I can't think of anybody who does Southern small town as well as Roberts), and the side characters fantastic.
(view spoiler)[When the "dead" husband showed up, finally, I heaved an actual sigh and thought "well, now for the stupid hostage situation the heroine will solve with her gumption and determination just in time to fall into the hero's arms." Gotta give her credit, though, as at least Roberts had Shelby get herself out of trouble rather than merely waiting for rescue.
**2.5 stars**I know this is a work of fiction, but there were too many unrealistic things happening for me to take it seriously.
It takes seven years for that to happen.
I don't care how good of a person you are, you're not going to take on millions in debt for someone who was - at a minimum - a liar and a cheat.
It's just not going to happen.
I liked Shelby & Griff and their romance well enough, but it would have been better in another setting.
Left with a huge debt and very little self-esteem, Shelby must find her way once again and become the woman she deserves to be.The opening chapters of the novel are a bit hard to get through.
But 500 pages of watching Shelby claw her way back to a healthy life more than make up for it, and the initial difficulties only make the end that much more rewarding.Left all alone and choking in debt, Shelby returns to Tennessee to be with her family.
Although the plot was a bit predictable and I was disappointed that Shelby didn’t think of the answer herself, the rest of the story made up for that small fault and the romance especially made it completely worthwhile.
It is not long after she arrives that she finds a contractor that keeps showing up around town.
The book balances her willingness to help find out the troubling secrets and protect herself and her daughter.
He is loving to his sister even though he was angry at her for years because of her actions.
There are so many full bodied side characters and they add to the story one layer at a time, until you feel a part of this town.
The writing of the southern people in town is perfection.
These people could live in any southern town in several states.
The Liar was offered to me as a psychological thriller......which it most definitely isn't.It is a pretty schmaltzy romance with a little bit of, well I can't even really say suspense, because for me it just wasn't suspenseful at all.The beginning was interesting.....Shelby Foxworth loses her husband in a boating accident.
Then going through his belongings she finds a key, which in turns reveals he was a cheat, a liar, and had multiple identities.After that, for me, it all went downhill.If you like romance, this book would be a good read.
As a thriller, particularly a psychological one, it falls well short of the mark.
I loved the Tennessee mountain setting, and enjoyed every word of this book.Shelby Pomeroy Foxworth has been dealt blow after blow since the death of her husband a few months earlier.
Her loving family welcomes Shelby and her daughter with open arms and hearts, and her life starts to come together.
As she begins to build a new life and feel pride in herself again, even meeting a man who interests her, she is faced with unsavory elements from her husband's past that put she and her daughter in danger and jeopardize the new life they are leading.I loved this book.
No he podido con el...Mira que me gusta Nora Roberts y he leido mucho ( y bueno) de ella pero este libro es infumable.... No puedo darle ni una estrella porque la historia no me ha enganchado, la protagonista uffff ,no se por donde cogerla, la historia de amor es demasiado rapida y se pasa mas de la mitad del libro contando las aventuras y desventuras de un pueblo sureño de America,para llegar a un final precipitado ( y muy previsible)....
LOVED this book! Griff is the ultimate book boyfriend and Shelby was a fantastic heroine. I loved Griff's interactions with Shelby's daughter, I loved the small town setting and I loved the suspense. This is my favorite book by this author! Loved it!
THE LIAR contained plenty of elements found in a typical Nora Roberts novel: a strong female with a vulnerable side because of a traumatic past.
All through the story I kept thinking that someone with her sheltered upbringing and give-not-take marriage with an uber-controlling spouse didn't jive.
But like Shelby's family, he was written almost too perfectly.
I liked Shelby's cop/brother, Forrest.
The romance was pleasant but the secondary characters were near-perfect and the mystery was lukewarm.
IMHO, I think die-hard Nora Roberts fans will enjoy this story the most.
Aside from a couple of her In Death books (which I loved), I've not had the chance to read anything from her extensive library.
In debt to the tune of a couple of million dollars, Shelby meticulously planned out how she would be able to pay all the debts her husband incurred.
The two-million dollar debt should've been debilitating to some, but that didn't deter her from wanting to move on and build a life for her and her daughter.
For the first time in her life, she was able to see that there could be a future for her and Callie, her daughter.
You know when you start to read a book, and it's not really that good - but you continue reading it, while thinking "It might get better". Well, this one don't.It's an extremely flat storyline, filled with pathetic stereotyped characters - who is not even the slightly bit likeable.The entire book is predictable and boring, and how this ever got to be on New York Times bestseller list will forever be a mystery to me.
I generally enjoy Ms. Roberts' once a year romantic suspense book. This one was okay but not a favorite. I felt that both the romance and the suspense portions were underdone. Somehow it never developed much tension in the suspense portion. There was no real sense of any danger to the heroine and I did guess the ending from the very first. The romance was nice but rather tepid. I enjoyed the interaction between the hero and the heroine's little girl.
The story was interesting, I suppose, but I’m not sure I even liked the heroine, the way everyone just loved her (except the jealous school mate ones who did criminal acts to get back at her after she’s been away for years) and she was just so perfect, except she ran off with someone she didn’t know, ditched her perfect small town family and got married without them to a controlling, mentally abusive shit, had a kid, let him run roughshod over her and she had no idea who he was or what he was, then all of a sudden when he dies she’s able to pick up everything, pay off millions of dollars, go back to her old life and everyone loves her again and she’s all perfect.
She seems to love those naive heroines that have to grow up and find their spine by the end of the book while also finding love.In this book, I was baffled at how unaware Shelby was.
Shelby met Griff Lott and she made him work since her trust in men had been obliterated.I really liked Griff because he was a great guy.
Shelby, Callie and Griff made a great bunch and I love that Shelby got her fight back.Unfortunately, I've read this plot twist a few times already so I wasn't surprised by much in this book.
Quick review:Cover: Okay Rating:  NC-17 Thumbs Up:  4.5Overall: Really enjoyed this oneCharacters: Well WrittenPlot: Overcoming bad choicesPage Turner: Yes Series Cont.?
N/A Recommend:  YesBook Boyfriend: GriffSUMMARY (60 words or less)I knew from page one what would happen by the end and I was right.
I didn’t really waver from that reality as I read.
However, it didn’t take away from my enjoyment of the story at all.
I even found myself tearing up at the HEA ending.
Audio Review January LaVoy did a wonderful job with the narration.
I didn’t have any problems following along.
Great characters!!
Shelby learns that the man she married was not who she thought he was.
She is a strong character and a great mom.
Shelby brings her little girl home to Tennessee where her loving family and colorful friends in the small town take care of her.
When he meets her little girl, it's cemented.
His character is kind, handsome and thoughtful.
When Nora puts her mind to writing the perfect man, she hits it out of the park.
I have been on a Nora Binge and I'm amazed that she never writes the same character twice.
When her husband dies, Shelby Foxworth learns the life she's been living for the past four years had been a lie, and the husband she thought she knew (and loved) had been a liar.
But sometimes things are not as they seem, and she'll quickly realize, her newly found freedom and independence might be the biggest lie of them all.I know I'm repetitive, but you just can't beat Nora Roberts when it comes to writing gripping suspense, great, subtle romance, wonderful characters, and small-towns and their communities.
We're talking about a romantic suspense book, and a NR to boot, and the big clue was right there.
This is a down home country feeling novel that takes place in a small town in Tennessee.
There is quite a bit of lineage here with daughter, mother, grandma, great grandma, son, father, grandfather and greats.
As far back as a great great grandfather who shot his 3rd cousin for taking his wife.
A romantic suspense and mystery with a contemporary setting, in the 21st century that produces hunky guys as carpenters and cops, back yard BBQ's, potlucks, dances and picnics.
This book made me wish my folks would have set down roots long enough to have this kind of history and lineage somewhere and where family means everything.
Will Shelby be able to escape his web lies?What I Liked:*This is my first Nora Roberts book, and I can certainly see why she is a bestseller.
If you enjoy a romantic suspense novel with plenty of cozy small town folk and a lovely romance, pull up a seat and set aside some time because once you delve into The Liar, you will be hooked.
With The Liar, you get a sizzling romance, a chick lit type book set in a small town with terrific characters, along with a dose of mystery/thriller as well.
The Liar is the perfect example of her writing at its finest.Our story centers on Shelly Foxworth, a young woman who was courted by a charismatic man, married him and gave birth to a beautiful daughter.
The tale that unfolds was wrapped in murder, suspense, town antics and a second chance at happiness.The Liar is just over five hundred pages and delighted me with secondary characters as witnessed Shelby rebuild her life.
This aspect felt like a small-town romance, but Roberts weaved in a suspenseful murder mystery.
I would love to get Fosters' story (Shelby's single brother) and a few others.The Liar was a fantastic romantic suspense with small-town charm.
For a more detailed review, please check out my review below:Debra's Book CafeDebs :-)
