https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/93370.Akira_Vol_2
3.9 stars.For fans of: The Men Who Stare at Goats; Dennis the Menace; Dragon Ball Z; The Curious Case of Benjamin Button.Avoid if: you’re a member of the Neo-Tokyo military.
You just cannot put this book down.
Akira's second volume is pure, non-stop action from start to end.
Even without the film as a reference, this book is oozing with cinematic appeal.Now I can really say that there's a huge difference between the manga and the movie.
Again, both still follow the main plot points but the smaller details are very different.
I can even go as far as saying that (view spoiler)[except for the huge Tetsuo monster thing and the big explosion in the movie, (hide spoiler)] much of the events has already happened in the first two volumes of Akira.["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>
(I read Akira in one huge go over a weekend, so I will be cutting and pasting this review for all 6 volumes)Akira is an epic work of science fiction sequential art.
The storyline is complex and consistent.
The two characters are drawn to one another over time, and the world doesn't stop for them to wallow in their newfound twitterpatedness.The art is beautiful, especially the detailed cityscapes and technical drawings.
The main characters were easy to recognize, regardless of their circumstances or outfits, which is not true of many manga.My complaints about the work are small.
The manga is far more complex and satisfying.
AKIRA AWAKENS! Wow, the way the artwork of the underground base, futuristic urban landscapes, spacecrafts and helicopters is done is truly stunning. I’m loving this.
I wouldn't dare to give this series lower than 4 stars considering how much time and effort Otomo put into planning out all the architectural and landscape details. The story are still quite basic post apocalyptic sci-fi, but I guess this must be pretty new for the manga industry back in the 90s. I can see how many manga artists (including my beloved naoki urasawa) would be influenced by him.
Acción desenfrenada en este segundo tomo de Akira en el que kaneda y Kay intentarán escapar del encierro al que les somete el coronel, mientras tanto Tetsuo averiguará el paradero del número 28, Akira, e intentará liberarle, empieza así una carrera contra el reloj para detenerle.
It's been a while since I've read a book in the Akira series, but it's still as much of a fantastic adventure as ever. Eerie, intense and deep, this book is a great addition to the series.
3.5 stars this wasn't as good as the first one, still way better than the movie, and the story takes A LOT of turns
If there is one thing when it comes to anime, people will always remember Akira.
When it comes to manga, this is a one read people should invested on.
I love Akira personally because of its sheer epic story of man versus Godhood and any thing that writes about power, this is the book people of all reader types should read.
I love Akira ever since its anime was released in 1989.
Not many authors or creators these days are bold enough to write some thing this good and this is one of the best 1200 over pages I have ever read.
Lots of action, but the action has no substance, tension or emotional weight as we still don’t know anything about the plot or have any reason to care about the characters.
Most of volume 1 and 2 were just a series of repetitive chase scenes with no tension or reason to care about what happened to the characters.
The humor is also very poorly done and placed in the most awkward and unnecessary situations.
There was one particular scene in the first few pages of this volume that was so poorly placed and unneeded that I actually rolled my eyes.
This was just as good as the first one. Lots of action and mystery. The ending had a bit of a cliffhanger and I'm interested to see where it goes. I love the villains of this story because I actually dislike them immensely and feel that they make good villains. The other characters are great too. Kaneda might be my favorite.
Ósea, flipando en colores, de verdad. Mira que solo llevo fos tomos y ya se han cargado el final de la peli (lo cual me suponía ya que según había leído la peli salió antes que el manga), pero es que de verdad que yo no se a donde nos va a llevar a parar esto. De verdad, que angustia y que estrés más grande.
Que desenho do caralho. Fico babando em várias páginas.
In the first volume, we were left with a lot of questions, but this did a great job of answering a lot of the big ones while leaving more to discover, so it didn't feel like the reader was being teased along continuously as can happen sometimes in some serialized stories.
I'm wondering if the rest of the volumes will continue at this breakneck pace or if it will slow down a bit.
On one hand, I'd be interested in the story slowing down for the characters to connect a bit more, but on the other hand, he does action so incredibly well.
Reading this feels like watching a movie.
Otomo's twinned finesse for meticulous architecture and kinetic, gestural character drawings, are, of course, totally amazing. And the story continues to be involving, especially as it really starts to look ahead past the film version which the action here has already nearly caught up to. But, action-packed as this is, it's almost too action packed. Couldn't we pull back a bit and focus on the characters and ideas and side developments a little longer? Plus, the enjoyment of Kaneda as improbable action hero gets strained a little if he's too implausible, which is happening a little by this point.
Oh boy oh boy things are moving really fast now! Sadly, I read the whole thing in an hour and a half. I guess a later, more calm re-reading will do me good. Also, it was interesting to see that some very memorable scenes from the film weren't based on the source material.
The Akira story continues, and its just as awesome as the first. Crazy telekinetic powers, secret military plots, and an earth shattering event on the horizon all colour the second volume into a masterpiece. Akira is an absolute classic and should be read by any aspiring graphic novel readers.
O talento de Katsuhiro Otomo transparece de forma clara neste segundo volume do mangá. O que parece ser um mangá longo, passa de forma tão rápida que a gente fica louco desejando mais histórias. A habilidade de juntar a narrativa visual à textual é o que destaca o autor. Nesse volume, vemos vários plots se desenvolvendo ao lado de momentos de ação ininterrupta.ATENÇÃO: Tem leves spoilers do primeiro volume.Passando rapidamente pela edição da JBC, ela mantém o padrão do primeiro volume com uma ca
Acha que eu colocaria em risco a vida de centenas de milhares de pessoas só para satisfazer sua vontade de realizar experiências?"Como a gente pode ver pela frase do coronel a grande temática deste segundo volume são as experiências de moral duvidosa levadas a efeito pelos cientistas.
Não podendo fazer, coube a ele e à sua divisão fazer o possível até que surgisse uma oportunidade de descobrir como lidar com Akira (ou número 26).
Não dá para saber por ora se um chama o outro, se eles são complementares ou se existe algo mais profundo por trás disso.A ação deste segundo volume é inacreditável.
This volume's More focused, more splodey (HOW?!), and has more changes from the anime. So pretty much why I started going through these.
Because Katsuhiro Otomo’s improved art, more exciting plot, and better character development Akira Vol. 2 manages to be a better book than Vol. 1.
This wasn’t as prevalent as in the first volume, but this is a great addition and makes Tetsuo feel a lot more real and developed.
In the Volume One, it focused heavily on the relationship of Tetsuo and Kaneda which wasn’t really fleshed out making for a lackluster plot.
Overall, the plot and character development thoroughly improve from the last installment......In conclusion, Akira Vol. 2 is a great sequel to the first book.
Akira Vol. 2 Amplifies the Action*Major Event Spoilers in the First Two Paragraphs* In the brightly-colored nursery, everything stands still… until a sharp beam of light pierces the ceiling and strikes the ground. After the glass roof shatters, a boy follows the lazer’s path and lands in the nursery. With vengeance in his eyes, the boy points a heavy firearm at the person he used to call his friend. A very abrupt conversation results:  KANEDA. Tetsuo!! TETSUO. K… Kane… da? KANEDA. Die!! (Otomo 1
(Otomo 113)Kaneda desperately fires at Tetsuo, tearing apart the facility with every strike.
Kaneda and Tetsuo are not the only characters that share a skirmish in Akira 2.
Later in the story, Kaneda and Kei infiltrate the military base and fight off against the fighter pods that find them (Otomo 189).
Meanwhile, more fighter pods blast hopelessly at Tetsuo, who descends towards Akira’s chamber on a large elevator (Otomo 191).
On the same elevator, after Tetsuo awakened Akira, one of the rebels must face a spy in a close-quarter knife brawl (Otomo 254).
All of this violence solely contains characters that Otomo introduced in the first Akira manga.
Tetsuo then sets off straight for the children to gather information about Akira’s whereabouts and from there he is on the mission to locate Akira with Kaneda and Kei one step behind trying to stop Tetsuo from ending the world.
He locates the base where Akira is and he rides the elevator down with the military hovering around trying to stop the two from meeting.
In the end, we are stuck with seeing Tetsuo’s arm blown off his body and him screaming.This cliffhanger at the end has made me wanting more of the story and what will be happening to Tetsuo.
As Tetsuo and Akira are escaping, Colonel screams “DO IT!
Sin embargo, como Lady Miyako dice, está predestinado que Akira vuelva a las andadas y es Tetsuo quien ha de despertarlo.Este tomo es un no parar de acción tras acción: golpes, disparos, explosiones y poderes asesinos yendo para acá y para allá.
Por fin entramos al clímax de la historia, el despertar de Akira, por lo que todo este movimiento sin fin tiene sentido.Siento que todos los personajes tienen personalidades demasiado extremas, ya sea para un lado o para el otro.
However the movie is condensed for characterization’s sake, and leaves out certain details that made the plot make more sense in the manga.Otomo loves both setting and action, as both are illustrated throughout the manga with care and prowess.
The art never looks to bedazzle you, but when Otomo wants to express the hugeness of a scene and the breadth of every event, it pulls off a sense of colossal dread that makes the story altogether incredibly memorable, terrifying, and human.The plot of the manga is a deeply engaging stream of events that grabs you by the shirt collar and never really lets go.
4.4/5This is like a far more detailed and fleshed-out version of about thirty minutes in the film's final half.
It's really fascinating to see how the original scenes were reworked between the two mediums, and how different the manga is despite its striking similarities with the film (yes, I'm aware the manga was a little more than halfway completed before the film came out).Like the first volume, Otomo's artwork is phenomenal.
He spared no expense on the details.
His characters are lively, the action is energetic and thrilling, and we finally get into more of the story's rich, succulent meat.
Volume 2 of AKIRA fails to grab the reader quite in the same way that Volume 1 does, and yet it seems overall to be the stronger of these first two part.
The characters are all developed with more quite a bit more depth in this volume, and the issues with action continuity between the individual panels (that is, being able to follow the action) is much stronger here.
There's clearly a reason AKIRA is considered one of the greatest graphic novels (mangas) of all time, even in spite of its flaws.
I'm excited to dive into volume 3.
The thing in manga-world where kids, especially younger, weaker-looking kids, possess the most awesome, deadliest superpowers is such a viscerally appealing concept, especially when set in contrast to the authoritarian adult figures.
Here that authority figure, Colonel Shikishima, and his youthful antagonist for most of the volume is Tetsuo, who at one point nearly kills the Colonel.
But the whole arc of this volume is a build-up to the release of Akira from cold storage deep underground.
And Akira, of course, is an even younger child, slouchy and meek-looking, but who is the ultimate mega-weapon.
These are some of the most incredible graphic novels I've ever read in my life.
If you are looking for something that contains depth of character, well developed storyline, incredible imagination, and spectacular art, you've found it.
Akira pulls no punches and is not interested in playing it safe - it'll grip you from start to finish and have you itching for more.
I was so excited to read the next one that I couldn't wait to get my hands on it.
Because my local library at the time had a waiting list for them, it forced me to be patient.
This is how I would advise you read them - in chunks.
Otomo’s Freudian critique of the excesses and human expendability of military proliferation.
The sins of the father, those from the past buried deep within the cold heart of failure and those of the present in churlish teenage boyhood, meeting face to face in a countdown to the future.
All paths facing his protagonists are beset with destruction, and the technical marvels on display represent the thin facade covering the toxic masculinity of a war economy write large.
The themes are still epic, the stakes are even higher and humanity take even further inhumane steps in the name of control and revenge.
Auf jeden Fall stärker als der erste Teil.Es passiert zwar nicht unfassbar viel, aber es gibt keine langatmigen Pausen zwischen verschiedenen Action-Spikes. Der gegebene Platz wurde mit sinnvollen Story-Elementen gefüllt, was ich sehr appreciaten kann wenns um Mangas geht.Nur Tetsuo nervt mich. Meine Güte. Und das liegt nichtmal nur an seiner unfassbar dämlichen Jacke. (view spoiler)[ Hurr durr ich geh nen gefährlichen Supermenschen ausbrechen, ich zieh besser die hässlichste Jacke mit Fellkragen an, die ich habe. Sieht garantiert fesch aus, wenn ich dämliche Entscheidungen treffe und ohne Grund böse bin  (hide spoiler)]
