https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/102305.The_Forgotten_Soldier
Heart breaking, brutal, real, lyrical, depressing, insightful, and in some ways familiar - I simply loved this book.
His story spans his journey from Germany to Poland for training in the transportation Corps and then to the east in the winter of '42 to resupply the German Army at the Don river.
His vivid descriptions of the Russian landscape, combat against the Bolsheviks, the bombings of cities in Germany and their aftermath, are amazing.This is a beautiful, painful, brutal book that anyone looking for a firsthand account of the horrors of combat and war should read.
Writers like Sajer, will never allow the future generations to forget, the miseries of world war soldiers.World war two was fought by soldiers but described by soldiers cum writers; Sajer belongs to this rare breed; he accomplished this rare job by writing, under stressful circumstances and arranging the information, for future readers.Sajer did a fine job in describing, the situation and psychology of a foot soldier, respect and value of enemy, Morality of a losing infantry, Hate for partisans, Agony of dying comrades, Worries of families, Benevolence of seniors, Difficulty of weather, Hardship of immobility, Frustration of illness and much more.This is a very fine book for those, who want to read about the agonies and pain of German soldiers.
This book gives altogether a different aspect of world war.
This helps in understanding a crucial fact of war that ....
the true enemy of, a man in war is ....
the war itself!!
Guy Sajer's account of life on the Eastern Front in World War II is a must read. If "All Quiet on the Western Front" left any mark upon you at all, this book will floor you. You will fully understand the brutality of war, the brutality of the Soviets and the Nazis. You will fully understand the brutal nature of "total war" and fierce nature of mankind who stoked and fed the machinations of World War.He's just a dumb kid in the beginning. He's an old man at the end. You'll never put up with jingoistic nonsense ever again.
Finding the guts to kill or be killed and to endure almost unbelievable hardship in unbelievable circumstances are too often absolutes for those who must fight.“The Forgotten War” by Guy Sajer is perhaps the best book I have ever read about what it is like to be a “grunt” on the front lines.
Sajer tells me how they died.I note that there are a very small number of people who quibble with Sajer’s account suggesting that he didn’t always know where he was, what caliber weapons he was using and that he referred to a unit patch being on the wrong sleeve.
Through the eyes of Guy Sajer, I have rediscovered the putrid horror of war and the interminable depth of the human soul.
So many people allude to war as the pinnacle of evil within human nature.
People fight wars.
Sajer beautifully renders his story with the wisdom of his age and through the eyes of a young man faced with inhumane devastation.
What pride to know what the human soul can survive!Or, perhaps, Sajer remains on those battlefields, lying face down; his nose half submerged in a block of ice which has settled in the gasp of his open mouth.
Stalingrad is lost and the German Army is no longer the formidable force which swept through Europe at the start of the war.
Facing starvation,daily fear of enemy bombardment, disease, exhaustion,and the unforgiving Russian winter, Sajer's experiences are retold with chilling detail and brutal honesty.'Too many people learn about the war with no inconvenience...sitting in a comfortable armchair, with their feet beside the fire...One should really read such accounts under compulsion, in discomfort...in worst circumstances, when everything is going badly.'The Forgotten Soldier is not a comfortable read.
There is no glory in war and the human cost is beyond comprehension.
Amazing, shocking, and unforgettable.This is the best book about WWII that you can find.Forget the U.S. involvement, or the British, or the French.Hell, I'm Canadian, but I always knew the real battle was in the East against the huge tank divisions of Germany and those of Russia.And yet...
here is the infantryman's perspective.And not even a German, but a French man.Or boy, since Sajer was 17 when he was drafted in.And what did he see?Everything!The Eastern front in all it's horrible form.This is a read you won't be able to put down, not for the gore, but for the human reflection.Really!
Guy Sajer was a sixteen year old boy in 1942 who was brought up in France by a French father and a German mother.
After being drafted into the German army transport division he was sent to the Russian Front.
This book describes his personal account of the two years he spent fighting on the Russian Front.
He also gets across the terror of war and the feelings of utter exhaustion of troops that are being forced to continue to fight with diminishing resources beyond what most of us could be expected to endure.
It is a book about a young boy growing into manhood through a time of total war and how it affected him.
Out of the 50-ish war books I’ve read, this is top three!
The desperation and constant battering of missions that never end is relatable (in a lesser scale of course), while trying to sustain anything close to an individual personality in land of pure horrid.
Guy Sajer’s story and motives have been strongly debated, but this book should probably be read by anyone curious of how the human mind develops into a simple tool for the mighty (much like another Nazi tale in the Kindly Ones by Jonathan Littell).The detailed descriptions of Ukraine were another personal highlight of interest.
A powerful book!
It's a mistake, for instance, to use the word 'frightful' to describe a few broken-up companions mixed into the ground: but it's a mistake which might be forgiven.I should perhaps end my account here, because my powers are inadequate for what I have to tell."(This on page 90 of a 560 page book.)As the war progresses, and following a brief respite of sorts during leave in Berlin (where he witnesses a terrifying daytime Allied air raid), Sajer and his comrades are 'volunteered' into the elite Grosse Deutschland division as infantry.
The author was a teenager who enlisted in the German army in 1942, and following basic training, was sent to the Eastern front as a truck driver.
In 1943 he volunteered to become an infantryman in the elite Gross Deutchland division in exchange for a one week leave in Germany.
For one thing the author isn't German, but rather French.
The book was originally written in French in 1967.
It's considered a classic war book and THE such book about the German army on the Eastern Front.
There are inconsistancies and it was later declared fiction by the official historian of the Gross Deutchland division.
I think he's at his best when he doesn't appear to be trying.We're thrown in with Sajer and his companions when they first arrive on the Eastern front, and there isn't really a chance to get to know the characters befor things start to happen to them--I suspect this is why it took me a while to get emotionally involved (but when I did...dang).
There's a great scene involving his scrawny & underfed teenaged self, a handful of eggs, and a strapping farmer's wife...yeah, just go read it.I was curious about what happened to Guy Sajer after the war--and it turns out that, interestingly, he became a very prolific cartoonist.
I read a review of this book around 1971 and my Dad and I eagerly awaited its arrival at the library.
We both thought it was a great read.
It was one of the first popular 'from the German point of view' stories available.
The genre has grown quite a bit since then.Twenty years later in the early '90s, there was and perhaps still is a controversy over whether the author is telling his story or one that is, shall we say, a composite.The debate is available, just search the web, I've ready the book 2 or 3 times, either way it's a good one.
The author's experience was so grueling, and his telling of it so eloquent, that I felt drained when I finished reading this; to pick one detail that sums it up, he ends the book (this isn't a spoiler, since you know he had to survive to write it) by describing how when he finally got home after the war and walked up to his family's home, his mother didn't recognize the worn-out old man greeting her as the boy who had left home for the army a few years earlier.
"...pain is international."These words are the central thrust of a book that asks you to pity the German soldier on the Eastern Front of World War II.
He even at one point has a good thing to say about Adolf Hitler.Yet, pain is international, and the raw experience of war at its worst is what saves The Forgotten Soldier.
You get gurgling throat wounds, explosive diarrhea in a moving truck, men ground down by tanks, soldiers buried alive by artillery, and sudden death from partisans waiting in the wings.
I read Sajer's story 20 years ago and I was deeply impressed by it.
Sajer himself is of French and German parentage.
Since the time I read this book, questions have been raised as to its authenticity.
Be that as it may, Sajer's descriptions of serving both with an anti-partisan and later with an elite infantry unit on the Eastern Front are compelling.In answer to his critics, Sajer has said that "You ask me questions of chronology situations dates and unimportant details.
Historians and archivists have harassed me for a long time with their rude questions.
All of this is unimportant.
I read this book while enduring Officer Candidate School.
If you want to read a story about what war is really like, then read this book.
The descriptions are vivid, the fear is palpable.Mr. Sajer basically says in the book that you cannot appreciate just how miserable or terrifying things were.
He said that you should read this book out in the mud, the cold, and the snow, so you could get just a small taste of what he went through.
I read this book over 20 years ago and his words still stick with me.
How often can you say that about a book?
"The war seemed to have turned me into a monster of indifference, a man witout feelings.
I was still three months short of eighteen, but felt at least thirty-five.
Peace has brought me many pleasures, but nothing as powerful as the passion for surviving in wartime, that faith in love, and that sense of absolutes.
It often strikes me with horror that peace is really extremely monotonous.
During the terrible moments of war one longs for peace with a passion that is painful to bear.
But in peacetime one should never, even for an instant, long for war!"
An amazing read, a truly horrifying account of World War 2 and how it was experienced by the soldiers. It is a very long and detailed personal account of a French-German soldier, giving gory details as well as very personal and honest accounts of what went on.Very moving, thoughtful and intellegent, and very very sad.
A descent into hell as we read about an ethnic German from France who joins the Wehrmacht in 1943 and is promptly sent to the Eastern Front. Talk about bad timing. Things quickly go from bad to worse as you follow him retreating back to Fatherland with the broken remnants of the Master Race. Hard to feel sorry for any of the Krauts in WWII, but this is as close as you will get. Great book.
I enjoyed this book even though I had read some criticism. Sure there may be some areas that the author has muddled, but has also been implied he may have a bit to hide. With all that in mind this is still a read about a brutal time for a young man. For those that are considering reading this be warned though, it is long and the "action" is non stop.
Read this a few years ago -- very poignant and moving, even intense. I'd place this on a level with All Quiet on the Western Front. Paul Baumer of All Quiet was a fictional character: a German soldier in WWI. This memoir concerns a German soldier in WWII--nonfiction. This is truly a forgotten gem, worthy of being more well-known.
words cannot describe.
An intense first hand experience of WWII in eastern front given by GUY SAJER.
even the hardest of all would be crushed and shaken while reading this book.
it has shocking Brutality, Horrors of the war, Tragedy, Fear, pain, toughness, extraordinary courage of the German soldiers and their misery was beyond our comprehension.the book Showed the Hell in which humans endured in WWII.the book also uncovers shocking Brutalities beyond anything, massacre by so called ALLIES or SAVIORS OF HUMANITY Soviet Russians during WWII.Everyone should read it to realize how our problems and pain are minuscule and how lucky we are.
So I'll split the difference.The best part of this book for me at this stage in my life was hearing the similarities between an average German soldier in WW2 and knowing how close his story was to an American soldier's story.
At the end of the day that's the secret that people starting wars for ideological reasons don't want you to know.
He fought back and forth across the Eastern Front for the last several years and was by the end of the way a veteran of more fighting than most people see in a 30 year career though he was not yet 19 years old.
Mr. Sager does more than an excellent job in describing the brutality and hopelessness he and his Komrades endured in Russia.
Who would think being a convoy driver could be so brutal?
I was shivering as I read this account.
Like the author, the reader will become immune to death and its consequences.
I found myself reflecting back to the Italian movies, “Stalingrad” and, “Attack and Retreat.” These films told the story of the men who fought and died in the most violent theatre of war.This book is a must read for all those interested in the Eastern Front.
It's good, not great.
Needed an editor: much too long.
Endlessly repetitive yet often psychologically dissociative.
And far to many references to "I think the town was named 'such-and-such'"--could have made more of an effort to uncover the German or current Russian names.
But, nonetheless, an impressive recounting of the horrors of the Russian front from an infantry perspective.
In the epilogue, because the author's Father was French, he was released immediately, on condition that he enlist in the French Army.
No wonder the author is dissociative!
10 STARS!The real brutal tragedy of the german soldier who has to fight on the eastern front with its bombings, battles, frost-bites, starvation, retreats all experienced by a half french, half german Sajer.As with every book of this kind everyone would tend to be a little skeptic that the actions portrayed actually took place.
After research i will say there is just so much evidence pointing to Sajer being authentic and so little evidence pointing to him being a fraud that I will conclude that his memoir is true.
Sajer himself said that he never intended for his book to be used as an infallible historical Bible, but rather just one soldiers view/memory of the war.
A unique hardhitting memoir of War on the Eastern front.No other book covers the sheer savagery of war between Germany and Russia as this book does.
The author (Guy Sajer) fought with the Grossdeustchland division of the German Army against the Russians and witnessed the horrors first hand.
The hunger, sleeplessness, cold, depravity, tiredness and constant stuggle for survival take their toll on the soldier who is hardly out of his teens.For anyone seeking the prespective of a common German soldier, this book is an invaluable work.A book you are not likely to forget if you read it till the end.
A must have for WW-II buffs.
"The Forgotten Soldier," has been called, "All Quiet on the Western Front of World War II." It is that, both more and less.
More - Guy Sajer has written a volume twice the length of, "All Quiet" It is a story - autobiography - largely untold of the experiences of German soldiers on the Russian front battling the Red Army and the Russian winter.
Sajer's account compels close, deep interest.
(I read somewhere - I cannot recall where - that, "Forgotten Soldier," has historical inaccuracies.
The thing most valued here is the close account of personal experiences.
just started and it's starting slow, just spotted a forest of Russian soldiers "crawling like ants on a mound north and south, while we go west to east" but I loved all quiet on the western front and I love History on any fronts except American History. Off to Ukraine.. Finally finished this Ww2 / memoir? very good, by far the best book I read on ww2, very sad read. I think the part I found the most curious was how he described how the U.S soldiers treated him toward the end of the book. Brave Man! 4.5/5
