https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/790131.And_Both_Were_Young
I love Madeleine L'Engle, I love the idea of boarding schools, Switzerland, and French boys and girls snowed into a storm of romance, adventure, and heartbreaking loneliness.
This one absolutely fills that niche.)I've reread this book countless times now, and each read only makes me happier and sentimental for the gorgeous but grounding tales of Madeleine L'Engle.
I'd also like to comment that since I was 12, this book has made me want a winter wedding by candlelight in a chapel in the middle of the woods.
How many stories talk about Lost Children, and the lives of the Germans as they rejoin the international community after WWII, and adults who are real people?Even the buttons are special.
Unfortunately I was too absorbed to mark it up with book darts, but let me tell you that you must at least read the first page.
And probably a better reader, too.Five stars might seem high, but I do recommend it to just about everybody.*I don't mean 19th c.
didactic stories, I mean literature for young people.
A Swiss boarding school seemed like one of the most exotic, interesting things ever and I frankly envied Philippa for what I perceived as a wonderful opportunity.This time around, I enjoyed the fact that Flip was obviously an introvert, and I was interested in how L'Engle approached her introversion.
Being an introvert myself, I felt for Flip and understood her hunger to spend time alone, and didn't like the way the various characters approached her need for quiet.
About a teenage girl whose mother has died who gets sent to a Swiss boarding school and her adjustment to her new life: her relationships with a new boy, her teachers & fellow students at the school, her father and his girlfriend.
I love L’Engle’s flawed but gifted girl characters.
A lot here that rang true, especially how an adolescent girl might feel when a father dates after the mother dies.Important to read the reissue with Madeleine L’Engle’s poignant note about how when she originally published this book, writing about death and sex had to be toned down, and how with the edition reissued/published in the 1980s she was able to make it more as she’d originally envisioned.
But again, that probably had more to do with the way people spoke at the time (post-World War 1).This is the story of a young girl sent to a boarding school in Switzerland.
I really wish they didn’t packaged this book as having a forbidden romance because of two things: one, there wasn’t any.
And second, it was an awkward romance.What I enjoyed about this book was the depicted life on a Swiss boarding school.
It makes me want to stay at home on Christmas and create our own family tradition.Over all, I almost feel like it’s sacrilege to say I didn’t quite enjoy this book.
This was apparently quite daring when it was originally published in the 1940s, so much that it had to be bowdlerized.
I read the original (non-bowdlerized) version and find myself wondering just what they felt they needed to cut out.
The whole "mysterious stranger lurking around" subplot seemed pretty truncated to me.Nevertheless, this was a good book.
It does a good job portraying the claustrophobic, almost incestuous boarding school atmosphere (I would have HATED it) and it's also interesting to see Philippa mature from a painfully shy, sulky and rather whiny girl to a stronger, more independent and mature person as the months go on.
What girl doesn't fantasize about going to a Swiss boarding school, having a dashing artist father, a mysterious and beautiful mentor/teacher, and a dark, brooding forest boy to fall in love with?
Phillipa Hunter, better known as Flip (oh, how much I love this), never wanted to leave her father and her Connecticut home to come to a Swiss boarding school.
Since her mother passed away, Flip has grown even closer to her artist father and the idea of leaving him and attending a foreign school among a host of strange other girls terrifies her.
Like so many of L'Engle's books, I turn to this one when I want to be reminded that the world and the people in it can be beautiful despite the darkness.
This made me want to go to a Swiss boarding school with stick-up-the-ass rules and a bunch of kind of snobby girls.
And Both Were Young is good as boarding school stories go and has a sweet, quiet romance, but I don't think the part of the plot which has to do with Paul's history works very well with the rest of it. I mean, the wartime amnesia thing is fine and interesting, but not the mysterious stranger part. Anyway, I do like the convincing way in which Flip grows from shyness to confidence during the course of the book, and of course I pretty much always like boarding school stories.
This was very sweet. Definitely reads like book from early in an author's career, but still worthwhile.
She's always clung to her family, and now she's going to be on her own for the first time in her life.Spoiler alert: The girl who's convinced she has no courage at all finds enough to perform a truly heroic act for the sake of someone she cares about.
The motherless girl who's never talked to a boy in her life finds friendship and more in a young man who teaches her that being able to remember a lost loved one is a precious gift.The prose here isn't as luminous as that in L'Engle's Camilla, but there's also no horrifying sexism.
Well, I would have given it five stars when I read it over and over and over when I was around twelve. (I even tried to copy out the library copy, but gave up after a few chapters. In those times and place, I didn't think you could buy books. Living in East Lansing, Michigan circa 1964, you couldn't very easily.)
This book was absolutely divine!L'engle did Switzerland justice and there was some amazing character building. I adored the friendship between Paul & Flip. . . It was the stuff legends are made of. :)This is one book that's gonna stay with me.And I don't care that it's summer. I wanna get me some hot chocolate and go stargaze!
I rounded up on my star rating because I love the author. But the book is probably more like 3.5 stars. When it came out in 1949, it was probably a delight for young ladies the world over. A boarding school in Switzerland! A young man with a murky past! But by today’s standards it’s pretty tame. It was a lovely little story though, and I enjoyed the innocence of its characters.
I wish I'd thought to explore more of L'Engle's books when I was younger. I always loved a Wrinkle in Time but after his I suspect I would have gobbled them all up. A lovely book for 8-11 year olds (though be prepared to explain a little about the Holocaust to them, there will be questions)
A coming of age story, a boarding school in the Swiss Alps, mystery and romance, Madeleine L'Engle...can it get any better? "She began to feel the sense of wonderful elation that always came to her when beauty took hold of her and made her forget her fears."
(3.5) A sweet coming of age novel. Middle grade level, I think? The characters were charming, the dialogue a little unrealistic for teenagers, but I still liked it. Just because I didn’t give it four+ stars doesn’t mean it wasn’t good. (Yes, Mom, I’m talking to you. 😘)
Simple & Sweet
2.5 stars - I love me some Madeleine L'Engle, but apparently all L'Engle are not created equal. But this is one of her very first. Wrote this for me to remember, s/o to anyone else who may read this
In the Foreword to the revised edition, Ms L'Engle says, "When And Both Were Young was first published, there were a great many very simple things that could not be put in a book that was to be read by children and young adults." She goes on to mention attitudes about death and sex in those days.
Her female characters especially say and do things just the way actual people would.In this novel, Flip (nickname for Philippa), has been sent to boarding school in Switzerland, just one year after her mother died.
I love the new cover too, I like how the pink stands out against all that snow and how it portrays Flip and Paul taking a walk.
Also, Flip finds happiness in observing the beauty in her surroundings and trying to capture that in her artwork.This is a very sweet novel and I was smiling when I finished reading it.
And Both Were Young reminded me of old school novels for girls like Little Women maybe because it's set in a different time and yet I could still feel for the characters.
I also enjoyed the setting, Switzerland seems like such a beautiful place based on Flip's descriptions.
At the school she struggles with fitting in and making friends, except for one person who is "out of bounds" for a young woman at her boarding school, a boy named Paul.While it was marketed as a "young love" story for teenagers, I think this book has more to offer than the predictable resolution that Paul and Philippa will get together.
For example, a young German girl named Erna must deal with people looking down on her because of her nationality, even though she doesn't understand much about the Nazis or their actions.Philippa also wrestles with faith but in a manner that (I think) is unique to the author.
Written and set right after WWII, this book is a period piece by Madeleine L'Engle long before she became the best-selling children's novelist in the 1960s.
Set in Switzerland, an American girl is sent to a boarding school because of her father's job.
It is at boarding school where she meets and befriends Paul, who lives up the mountain from the school.
Books like And Both Were Young and Dog in the Wood do a good job of telling stories that explore such vestiges.
I loved the beautiful scenery descriptions, and I admit that I felt a bit of a desire to experience boarding-school life (just for a day or two...I'd miss my family too much to do it for long).
And I really loved her sweet romance with Paul (though I did feel like the first kiss came out of the blue...I was getting "really good friends" vibes from them, not necessarily "crush" or "love" vibes).This book has a lot going for it: a touch of mystery, some danger, a bit of excitement, sympathetic characters, and a sweet little romance or two (SO glad how things went with Flip's dad).Note to self: how did I not read this when I was a kid, with my love of all things L'Engle???
The last time I saw an edition of "And Both Were Young" was when I handed my copy over to a friend in high school.
She liked romance novels, and I thought she should read it because it has the sentimentality of romance combined with a need for self-discovery.
I never saw the book again, so thankfully it has just been released as a re-print.
Yes. Flip's teenage angst at the beginning is understandable, but I'm not quite as sympathetic.
After the teenage me identifying so strongly with teen Flip, I'd like the adult me to see how the adult Flip turned out.
And Both Were Young by Madeleine L'Engle is a fabulous book that has easily deserved its four-star rating.
The story begins with a young Philippa, Flip, who is being sent to a Swiss, all-girl boarding school.
However, when wondering, Philippa sees a boy, Paul, who she has meet before leaving for boarding school.
Flip finds herself in trouble with the school and her favorite teacher, and has to find a way to keep her visits with Paul and help him figure out who he is.
Flip is a teenage girl who is sent off to boarding school in Switzerland because of her nasty potential stepmother convinces her father to do so.
Before she leaves, she meets a boy and in a emotional rage tells him about her feeling toward her step mother.
Unbeknownst to her he is staying in a little guard tower just up the way of her new boarding school.
Paul, they boy, has a very mysterious past that she has to go to great length to uncover.
This is a truly incredible book and I recommend it if your looking for a mystery/romance.
I need more Madeleine L’Engle in my life. Sure, she’s retro, but friends, I’m sort of sighing over the sweetness of And Both Were Young. Weird as this sounds, And Both Were Young totally relaxed me and was such a calming read – bringing me back to a different time.Read the rest of my review here
American born Flip is miserable at her Swiss boarding school, and doesn't fit in with the more sophisticated European girls. Longing for privacy, she explores the nearby mountains and meets a French boy Paul, whose friendship beings her great joy and whose secret changes her life. My favorite L'Engle!
