https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/44543.Slammerkin
I love this book so much that I actually couldn't bear to read the end the first time around.
Also Emma Donoghue is an excellent stylist.My one caveat that I have with all of Donoghue's books is that she seems incapable of depicting heterosexual relationships in a positive light and it's always the homosexual ones that seem the most natural and real.
But given the way women were treated at the time--well, it just seems like it would be hard to have a positive relationship with a man because they...I'm having too much trouble finishing this sentence, I'll cut it off here.
I’ve learned that she’s won or been nominated for several prizes, and that her historical fiction has tended to be centered around the different ways that in past times women were perceived; the pretty limited choices that women often had; and the real stories of certain women that became rather sensational in their own time – or perhaps scandalous would be a better word?Knowing these and other bits about Donoghue has caused me to think that I may have been somewhat dismissive of this book, and the author, those four years ago.
(These are the only things which made me give this novel 2 stars...otherwise, it would've been a 1-star book.) I thought the narrative's main flaw lay in its heroine, Mary Saunders.
I found her to be very unsympathetic, and for me, that made getting through the book very difficult.
Many times, as readers, we look for something within a character which can be relatable to our own lives, but the characterization of Mary Saunders was such that I just found her intolerable and insufferable.
Even in the 3rd part of the novel, when she seemingly wants to try to change her ways, she still comes off as disingenuous.
Lacking a common desire or situation, thereader may have difficulty opening herself to a character– in my case, the relationship between a middle-agedlibrarian and a doomed teenaged prostitute.Slammerkin places a very young woman in a desperatelypoor household, where she is neither loved nor consultedabout how her life will unfold.All evidence points to a miserable and colorlesscontinuation of her mother’s life of poverty, drudgery,and subjugation that was sealed when her fatherwas killed in a misguided protest by men who believed thatthey were going to lose, literally lose, eleven days of theirlives when the government changed to the Gregoriancalendar in 1752 -that they would lose time.I was fascinated by the subjective inconstancy of Mary’sperception of time.
Well, from all the books I've read about this time period, it has become alarmingly clear that a woman such as myself would not have existed back then.Women were allowed only a few scripted roles, one of which was prostitute.
All were examples of the same thing; a woman who exchanged sexual relations for money and/or power (of a sort).Most woman who chose door #2 often made bad ends; the heroine in this novel (or is that anti-heroine?) is no different.
A woman who sells herself for money can't possibly end up well off and comfortable, because that would promote such a thing, right?
Right??Other than that amount of predictability, this is a better-than-decent read.
This book is anti-erotica. Its about a girl who is forced into prostitution by a totally heartless world (London in the eighteeth century) and who progresses in the course of the book from an innocent to the most depraved of humanity. The story wends its way from beginning to end and is interesting and readable, but it is a crabbed view of humanity, unlightened by any hope of redemption or joy. I enjoyed reading it once but its not one of those books I will seek out again.
It's strange that when you don't like a book you can come up with a lot of reasons why, yet when I love one I just say "Fantastic.
Read it." This book had a lot of ingredients for me to love, but it just fell completely flat.
I felt absolutely nothing for the main character, Mary.
I think that was the crux of the problem.
I mean at least give me a better reason for her to willingly give into that ribbon peddler at age 14 than she just likes colorful hair bows.
Come on.
Skip this one and read Room by Donoghue instead.
It was the equipment and accoutrement of the rich that particularly fascinated me.
This book makes that blackness extremely real.
Slammerkin is a brutal look at one particular facet of the Georgian era underclass: prostitution.
A bit like opening a privy door to 1760.The focus of the book is Mary Saunders, a courageous girl with a core of something distinctly unlikeable wedged inside her heart.
I didn't see too many choices for her on the way though.What I really like about the book is the author's brilliant use of period detail.
What I can't quite get over is the shallow nature of Mary Saunders.
Most depressing book EVER!
One of the best books I’ve read in a long while.
Beautiful array of female characters, who all show different aspects of being a woman in 18th-century society.
You could definitely tell that the author had done her research, from everything to clothing to food to society to architecture.
Considering the research fail I usually encounter, this book was one long session of me saying YES!I wanted, wanted, wanted Mary to have a happy ending, to reform herself and marry Daffy, but she didn’t.
She failed pretty spectacularly at the whole reform thing, though I wonder if she were even capable of it.
I liked her sharpness, her ambition, her resourcefulness, and I felt sorry for all the things she had gone through in her young life, which destroyed any faith or trust she had in other people, especially in men.- The female characterisation all around was excellent; Doll, Jane Jones, Abi, and Mrs Ash were all well rounded and nuanced characters that didn't just fulfil one role; they were all a mixture of good and bad, weak and strong, and making right and wrong decisions which affected the way in which the story unfolded.-(view spoiler)[That shock ending totally took me by surprise!

She wants color in her life, freedom from the work that’s making her mother prematurely old, and a future that is better than the dreary existence she sees all around her.
She also learns that, out in the world, “clothes make the woman” and that “clothes are the greatest lie ever told.” Her appearance is a means to getting what she wants.
Getting an education about better quality clothing stokes her desires for even finer things, without getter her any closer to a real means of attaining them.
Slammerkin is inspired by fragments of a real life story from 18th-century newspapers.We follow young Mary Saunders who falls , for the love of a ribbon, into prostitution and ultimate disaster...I loved how Emma Donoghue describes life on the streets in London 1760 for a young prostitute.We follow her to the Magdalen Hospital for reformed prostitutes and then to the quiet country town of Monmouth in Wales.Fans of Sarah Waters work and Michel Faber's The Crimson Petal and the White will love this story.
I'm not going to tell the story except to say, there isn't one truly good thing that happens to any character in the book and almost every person in the book was somewhat messed up.
There were no happy or good things going on ever in the book and every character had some kind of evil or misguided by religious thinking motive behind their actions.
Read this book if you want a depressing and sad story of an abused and unloved young girl who had a crappy existence.
I am not sure I liked that they told me the ending right at the beginning.The story was well told and characters well written. Fully thought out and motives examined.Definitely recommend.
The book covers 3 years in the life of Mary Saunders, and takes place in the mid 1700's in London and, primarily, Monmouth.
Mary's home in London is one of poverty; when she finds herself pregnant and disowned by her mother and step-father early on in the story, she turns to a life of prostitution where she finds she can make money.
There is the bitter mother that rues the day she gave birth to a worthless girl, prostitute whose life was utterly pointless, the tailor lady that thought it ok to have a slave, the minister that was also a pimp on the side, the disloyal husband, the religious but hateful fanatic, and last, but certainly not least, an incredible spoiled brat, which is the heroine in this story.
Every other character in this book is a hypocrit.
I have read so much about the rich royal family, that it was interesting to get a feel for what went on outside the palaces in that time.
Emma Donoghhue writes a a story inspired by few surviving facts of the real Mary Saunder's life.
Mary's desire of vanity holds no bounds although she is given many chances for a fresh life she only knows one way to get what her heart desires, the luxury of fine clothes and fame.
This is a book I know made me think deeply of today's lost youth who don't know how to receive love cause their heart has hardened and can't absorb it.
I loved this book and look forward to much more of Donoghue's intelligent and absorbing writing.
Nie byłam przekonana, bo mam to poczucie, że twórczość Donoghue ociera się o eksploatację, biorąc pod uwagę, jak bazuje na pewnych faktach na korzyść samej autorki i jej pisania, a nie dla jakiekolwiek innej racji.
Jednakże Donoghue ma ogromny talent i powieść napisana jest w niesamowicie wciągający sposób, który każe czytać dalej.
Główna bohaterka jest niesamowicie antypatyczna i uwielbiam to w niej.
Ostatecznie trudno powiedzieć, czy Mary jest psychopatką czy dziewczyną po traumatycznych przejściach, ale byłam w stanie ją zrozumieć i miałam wiele empatii dla jej poczynań.
Throughout the story Mary is continuously being given to, even in the beginning she didn't have too bad of a life but continued to make things worse for herself without any thought.
I kept with the story because I thought there is no way the story can continue like this, but it did.Then I had to actually do a project for my grade 11 english class on this terrible book.
The book was well written so I guess the one star I'm forced to give this because of the website format can be given towards that, but I really don't think its worth the star.
There are several times where it could have gotten better but didn't - to my frustration.
Not really additionally enlightening to the times (18th Century England), at least to me.
The main draw was that the book was not difficult to read and I kept wanting to know what was going to happen next (I kept hoping the storyline would get better.) I actually liked it better after learning that the author created the story based on a few known facts about the main character.
However, this is not revealed until after the book because the few known facts are the culmination of the story.
At the age of 14, Mary is raped by a ribbon seller, after seeing a red ribbon in the hair of a prostitute and wanting such a fine ribbon for herself.
Eventually, she is kicked out of her own home for 'losing her virtue' after the rape and has to turn to a life of prostitution at the age of 15 in order to survive.
What follows is a detailed story about life on the streets, and Mary's struggles to get by in a depraved area of London.
Donoghue is a skillful writer, and Mary's journey as a London prostitute and a country maid is gritty, dark, and depressing, but driven by Mary's vivid personality.
Multiple points of view in the second half of the novel detract from Mary's story, but on the whole this is a dark but burning novel which raises thoughtful issues of family, gender roles, and liberty.
The first half of Slammerkin closely follows her point of view, and her journey is as horrific as it is admirable: though never glamorous, her life of prostitution is sometimes joyful.
The quality of the writing was excellent, though it's hard to believe Slammerkin and Room came from the same author; they are so different.
I struggled to put it down and I was fascinated by the details, even if they were disgusting at times!Good bits: Donoghue's creativity in weaving Slammerkin out of off-cuts from another, real life story, and the obvious effort that has gone in to the historical details of daily life in the 18th C.
NB: While I enjoyed reading Room, Slammerkin is a whole other thing.
Donoghue's narrative voice is witty, idiomatic, evocative, and compelling.
The book has a rollicking pace without sacrificing a profound sense of the misery of human suffering and female embodiment (within prostitution, slavery, and poverty).
Donoghue slyly inserts into Mary Saunders' tale a canny historical awareness of the shift into a capitalist culture and the veneer of Enlightenment that disguises something much darker about the birth of modernity.
She does this without losing compassion or humor and without blunting the edge of her book with either of those often softening qualities.
I poured through this book with total engagement.
To be honest I tried to enjoy it but apart from the middle section when she was in Monmouth and trying to find a life away from prostitution, it was just too depressing. Donoghue's descriptions of impoverished 18th century were interesting and well written but I just couldn't like Mary. Perhaps it was clever to make us dislike this unfortunate girl so much but really I can't give it any more stars, there was too little to feel good about :(
A few things I know now as I've finished it up, this is a historical fiction coming of age story where we follow Mary Saunders, a young girl who lives in London in the 1700s with her mother (a seamstress) and stepfather (her's died when she was barely born).I haven't read a great deal of Historical Fiction but it is always a genre which I quite enjoy because I have a fair fascination with Historical periods I don't know much about and always finding out more about them is interesting to me.
Set in London and Monmouth in the late 1700s, this is an extraordinary novel about Mary Saunders, the young daughter of a poor seamstress.
Mary hungers greedily for fine clothes and ribbons, as people of her class do for food and warmth.
It's a hunger that lures her into prostitution at the age of thirteen.
Mary is thrown out by her distraught mother when she gets pregnant and almost dies on the dangerous streets of London.
Mary roams London freely with Doll, selling her body to all manner of 'cullies', dressed whorishly in colourful, gaudy dresses with a painted red smile.
Again, I really don't like historical novels.
I keep having to read them for my book club and I continue to not really like them.
The "history" is that a maid killed her mistress back in the 1700s.
but then she gets extremely greedy and becomes a prostitute again and kills her mistress.
I think what I really don't like about historical novels is that they really seem to be an attempt to rewrite history.
Still this book was entertaining and made having sex with prostitutes in 1700s London seem really gross.
Comparable novels that spring to mind are Forever Amber and The Crimson Petal and the White but with one big difference: (view spoiler)[for all her desire for a higher station in life, in this book, Mary never achieves it (hide spoiler)].
Most of all, though, I was reminded of Scarlett O'Hara, who is similarly afflicted with a yearning for her lot in life to be other than it is, and who similarly alienates a sympathetic reader with her willingness to go too far to get what she wants.
