https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2003793.Why_England_Slept
Written, I assume in 1940, Kennedy's book examines the reasons why England was so slow to re-arm before WWII, with many quotations and facts and figures.
The roles of the National Government, the Labour Party, the Conservative Party and the electorate all come under considerable analysis.In particular, I enjoyed the following:“No discussion on Britain's psychology would be complete unless some mention were made of the natural feeling of confidence, even of superiority, that every Englishman feels and to which many Americans object.
What we need is an armed guard that will wake up when the fire first starts, or, better yet, one that will not permit a fire to start at all.We should profit by the lesson of England and make our democracy work.
I’ve had plenty of friends who thought JFK had good insight and vision, but I didn’t understand what they meant until I read this book. His analytical sense was so keen that I thought that he was psychic about what’s going on today in the world. He easily understood what happened then in England and why it could happen in the states. I recommend everyone should look at this book sometime in their lives to understand politics a bit better. It just goes to show you what can be done if you research your topic thoroughly.
JFK wrote this when he was in Harvard.....gives quite a glimpse into one of the best minds ever to be in the oval office. Too bad w can't read , maybe this would have helped him some!
Pretty interesting historical document of a young JFK sizing things up before Pearl Harbor. Of course, considering what we now know about Cuba and Vietnam, you have to think about the old saying aboutpeople in glass houses.
WHY ENGLAND SLEPT was written by the future 35th President of the United States as a historical thesis when he was a 22 years old Harvard student.
Within its pages, JFK outlined the varying factors that led to England's ill-preparedness in the years that led up to the Second World War. It is clear through his writing that Kennedy had a firm grasp on the leaders, conditions, circumstances, and culture of England at the time.
It's clear after reading WHY ENGLAND SLEPT why historians consistently rank John F.
We can see this in the dictatorial actions of Obama who pushed the hated Obamacare through Congress which the majority of Americans oppose and in his stance on immigration which the vast majority of the country is against.
We see it in his constant use oF Executive Orders for issues that he could not possibly get through Congress.
At the very least this book demonstrates that JFK had a better handle on issues and would have been a better president at the age of 24 than Obama would be at any age.

The impulse behind this book: "I believe it is one of democracy's failings that it seeks to make scapegoats for its own weaknesses." And then the layout of which politician said what when, numbers, all very thesis orientated as indeed it was Kennedy's thesis and was published in order to promote his career goals.
Reading it made me wonder about Mrs. Kennedy's soul searching inquiry "Do you think a wife should let her husband think he's smarter than she is?" Still a highly competent analysis of the 1930's wherein it is clear that disarmament vows hampered rational thinking about Germany, ruined, who further multiplied its debt to raise an military prowess and arms, keeping inflation at bay, and was obviously getting ready to wage war as the economic situation was not likely to be kept safely under wraps for long.
I never new John F Kennedy had such good analytical sense.
This book is about the 1930s in England: international relations, local politics and national defense.
It asks why England did not prevent German aggression, and why they pursued a policy of appeasement (they did not have the power to back up any threats).
On a larger level it is about the relative merits and weaknesses of democracy compared to totalitarian government.
I did not give this book more stars, because even though it is informative, it is still dry and academic.
Also it is not as good as "The Hobbit".
This book should be required reading for all government leaders in a democracy. John Kennedy shows how smart, perceptive, and thoughtful he is at a very young age ( in 1940) when he wrote this book. It was very difficult to find a copy of it to read, which is sad. More Americans should read it, as he speaks very thoughtfully and forcefully about the strengths and weaknesses of a democracy when it comes to waging war.
JFK's evaluation of why it took England so long to realize the threat posed by Germany's rearmament and increasing belligerence during the 1930's. His basic conclusion is that while a democratic and capitalistic system is superior over the long term, a dictatorship is more effective in preparing for and prosecuting war at the outset. An interesting study, especially when one considers it was written well before the outcome of WWII was known.
This was Kennedy's thesis paper at Harvard, on why England did not rise sooner to confront the forces of totalitarianism that led to the second World War. It is an interesting little book, not particularly well-written, but nonetheless useful in generating ideas about a subject we should be thinking more about today.
It is a good lesson about being prepared and being blinded, even guided by what others might think or do when we make a decision. I enjoyed the matter of fact way John Kennedy wrote.
I'm not going to rave over a "book" just because someone [who subsequently became] famous wrote it. So, he wrote this in 1940 and then came WWII. Hindsight is 20/20.
Will have to meditate further over my review on this. Initial reaction is I'm satisfied--it has a strong thesis for armaments policy applicable to a democratic country when faced with war-mongering dictatorships. What I'm not impressed with is JFK's construction of his paragraphs. Umm hello, editors?
No wonder he was one of the most influential presidents of all time!
He really knows his way around words and I felt I learned so much about this topic.
Although it was just a book I felt like I learned a whole year about the build up of world war 2 and how England wasn't ready for the war.
I can only hope to read literature like this again, and to those who are also fascinated in world history.
This will be one of the most influential books you have ever read, much like his term in office.
While Hitler was able to mobilize the entire German population for rearmament, the British Parliament had a difficult time convincing the British public that the League of Nations and the Disarmament Conference should be abandoned in favor of making preparations for war.
British factories couldn't make conversions overnight, so unfortunately by the time the public came around (after Munich) it was too late in the game to make a substantial difference.
This book is filled with great information and at the time it was written served as a warning for all democracies not to become too complacent.
This was interesting, but obviously more a curiosity than anything else.
yes
