https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/114128.Hidden_Riches
Isadora runs an antique and collectibles shop.
Her family is into theater acting and she used to be an actress.
She is undaunted, persistent, beautiful and bright.
After bidding some collectibles in Virginia, she had no idea about the trouble those things would bring her.
Jedidiah (love the name) is an ex cop who turned in his badge after his sister died.
But Dora got under his skin and gradually breaks down the wall he erected.
I love Dora's family.
They love the flair and the drama.
Also, I love the banter between Jed and Dora.
The suspense is great but the frustration of not being able to warn the characters about something the reader has already read is awesome - and painful.
I had a few issues with things that are pet peeves for me, like ignoring a hot meal so the main characters can have sex and ripping a sweatshirt in two to get at a woman - really, who lets their food go cold for sex when you can always have sex later and has anyone tried ripping apart a sweatshirt?
I am not going to review every Nora Roberts book that I have read in the past because she is quite prolific and it would get redundant and I honestly cannot remember all the plots.
I think I have read every one of her books to date because despite the cheesy nature, the ending is always happy and the read is easy.
Frankly, I like these books and will continue to read each one that comes out.
I am going to post this same review for each of her books that I have read in the past.
Re-reading. Made the time on the elliptical and treadmill pass quickly this morning, which is always nice! this is still one of my favorite old-skool Nora books. Her non JD Robb books are always hit and miss for me, but I always enjoy this one.
I fell in love again <3
Mystery plot was patently obvious, but enjoyed entering into the world of collectibles, old books, and antiques.
I have so been missing my romance. This was just a breath of fresh air.

Nora Roberts is just not for me..
No sé si hay una edición en español de este libro pero lo disfruté bastante, tiene un aire de "El guardaespaldas" : El tipo duro, policía, con pasado oscuro, héroe renuente y la chica es de una familia de artistas aunque ella ha tomado otro camino que la lleva a necesitar la experiencia de Jed como policía cuando adquiere un objeto en una subasta que la convierte en el blanco del villano.
El romance estuvo super entretenido.Not a huge fan of Roberts (at least not yet) but i enojyed this book.
The romance was super entertaining and the steamy scenes were great.
3.5 stars.A good romantic suspense from NR. I enjoyed Dora's theatrical family. Jed's character, on the other hand, is not as appealing. The finale was a bit more violent than I anticipated but all in all, a satisfactory read.
Para escapar de su mundo alquila el departamento al lado del de Dora, arriba de la Tienda de Antigüedades, su vecina y casera lo intriga y lo saca de quicio a la vez, tienen personalidades totalmente opuestas y aquí es donde comienza la atracción.La historia está muy buen narrada metiéndose en la cabeza de cada uno de los personajes, Dora con su constante optimismo y testarudez, Jed con su culpa y sus demonios y el villano con su complejo de Dios.
But I liked Dora's character a lot.
About 74% of the way through I was so anxious because (view spoiler)[ Dora let it slip that she was in love with Jed. Omg.
(hide spoiler)] And then again at the end.
At 92% (view spoiler)[ when Dora was basically breaking up with Jed and you can just feel his panic.
He was scared and didn't like it one bit.
(hide spoiler)]That actually happened a lot in this book for me.
(view spoiler)[(Wish someone would get me a complete set of first editions of Nancy Drew.)  (hide spoiler)]4.5 stars.
Posso dizer que gostei; o enredo não é extraordinário mas a história é boa e está bem contada.
Dificilmente sobressairia no mercado actual, com tanta oferta de thrillers empolgantes e romances arrebatadores.Gostei da forma como Nora Roberts intercalou o romance com a resolução do problema em mãos que, embora não seja nenhum mistério já que a identidade dos vilões bem como os seus objectivos e motivações são revelados logo no início, não deixa de ser interessante.A escrita é a habitual mistura de competência e elegância, pontilhada com diálogos dinâmicos e, neste caso, divertidos, já que Dora e Jed estão em picardia constante.
Gostei que ambos viessem de realidades familiares bem diferentes mas que tentassem compreender as origens um do outro.
My first attempt at reading a Nora Roberts book. I held my nose and chided myself that she was just to much a part of the vernacular to ignore her. I'm not really into romance novels.I was surprised that it really was much better than I thought it would be. That works out well because someone gave me several of her books saying that I really "MUST" read them.
Un gran libro para estrenarme con Nora Roberts^^
สาวดาว เพราะใชเวลาอานนานมากกก
สาวดาว เพราะใช้เวลาอ่านนานมากกก
And I loved the way they called each other by their surnames; I can imagine this couple being best friends, regularly bickering and loving each other.The intimate scenes packed a punch; in a world of generic sex scenes, the scenes in this book highlighted their passion, need for each other and the growing love between them as well as the humour interspersed.I must say this; some authors of old have a gift for making the most out of intimate scenes without using erotic words or even specific terms to name body parts; Nora Roberts conveyed the passion between this couple beautifully
I really enjoyed this romantic suspense novel from '94.
I found it at the bookstore - I'm happy for an author's earlier books to be re-released, as long as they're clearly marked, as this one was.
Our heroine isn't a push over or bland, but she is someone who cares about others, tries to do the right thing, and is all around likable.
The baddies are selfish, mean, and enjoy killing.
There were some times in the book that I really worried about Dora, even though you know she has to be all right in the end.
It has been years since I have read a Nora Roberts' book and Hidden Riches was a good read to introduce me to her. No great shakes of "literature" but there is always a good story line, albeit cheesy, and a happy ending. This story worked for me since I listened to it in the car and while walking. I look forward to downloading a few more books by her. Go Cards! L1C4!!
It was the first book I remember reading of Nora Roberts (that wasn't a Silhouette) and I loved it so much, I read everything of hers I could get my hands on. Re-reading it today is still a joy. This book made me a lifelong fan of Roberts.
The audio version of this makes it unique.
My favorite Nora Roberts! Mystery and romance - perfect!
Dora is an art and antiques collector who comes from a family of actors. When strange things start happening at her store, she turns to her new tenant, a taciturn and mysterious ex-cop who the only thing he wants is to be left alone.As always with Roberts' books, great fun, fast-paced story and likable characters (not to mention great dialogue). If you like Nora's other work I'm sure you will enjoy "Hidden Riches."
Hidden Riches has been on my list since January 2010.Dora's quick wit makes this book.
In fact, his struggles are some of the most realistic I've seen in romance novels.
That added believability to the HEA.The plot has suspense but it's not a mystery.
The readers know all along what's going on, and the suspense comes from how it's all going to play out.
The suspense was a success for me.
Dora's emotions and reactions after scary events seemed believable.
In newer novels the norm is a superwoman who is fearless and often reckless.
Dora was no doormat, but she had realistic reactions to being in danger.
Parts of this book I really love, parts of this book I skim, and that might be part of the problem for me.
I like the parts in her building, in the store, in the apartments over it.
Maybe it's that Ms Roberts has made those parts of the book more vivid, more detailed.
I maybe should reread the book again, see if I like the other parts better the next time through.My favorite is the last 40 pages, and the reconciliation.
I love when a guy comes riding to the rescue - and his rescue almost came too late.
Isadora, or Dora, gets to be an unwilling participant in art smuggling when she buys a few things at an auction.
A trail of corpses leads directly to Dora and a rich art collector that stops at nothing to get a painting back.Jed is a cop on personal leave since he brought down a drug lord who killed his sister.
He is very angry at the world and have a big problem letting people under his skin.
Especially a hot landlady.The story of Dora and Jed is, as usual with Nora Roberts, filled with witty dialogue and suspended feelings.
The problem with the book is that it is to long.
นางเอกเปนเจาของรานขายของเกาทีบังเอิญไปไดของเกาทีประมูลมาลอตนึงโดยไมรูวาสินคาทีไดมาเปนของทีมีของมีคาทีถูกโจรกรรมและลักลอบซอนไว และเปนเหตุทำใหเกิดการฆาตกรรมหลายรายพระเอกเปนตำรวจทีลาออกจากหนาทีการงานเพราะตัวเองเปนสาเหตุใหนองสาวตายจากการลางแคนของมาเฟีย พระเอกทนอยูในบานทีไดรับมรดกจากพอแมทีมีฐานะไมได ประกาศขายบานและมาเชาหองในตึกทีนางเอกเปนเจาของและอาศัยอยูภูมิหลังของตัวละครเอกทังสองตางกันอยางกับฟากับเหว นางเอกมาจาครอบครัวทีมีความสุขดวยความรักและความอบอุน ในขณะทีพระเอกมาจากครอบครัวทีแตกแยกและไมมีความสุ
นางเอกเป็นเจ้าของร้านขายของเก่าที่บังเอิญไปได้ของเก่าที่ประมูลมาล๊อตนึงโดยไม่รู้ว่าสินค้าที่ได้มาเป็นของที่มีของมีค่าที่ถูกโจรกรรมและลักลอบซ่อนไว้ และเป็นเหตุทำให้เกิดการฆาตกรรมหลายรายพระเอกเป็นตำรวจที่ลาออกจากหน้าที่การงานเพราะตัวเองเป็นสาเหตุให้น้องสาวตายจากการล้างแค้นของมาเฟีย พระเอกทนอยู่ในบ้านที่ได้รับมรดกจากพ่อแม่ที่มีฐานะไม่ได้ ประกาศขายบ้านและมาเช่าห้องในตึกที่นางเอกเป็นเจ้าของและอาศัยอยู่ภูมิหลังของตัวละครเอกทั้งสองต่างกันอย่างกับฟ้ากับเหว นางเอกมาจาครอบครัวที่มีความสุขด้วยความรักและความอบอุ่น ในขณะที่พระเอกมาจากครอบครัวที่แตกแยกและไม่มีความสุข แค่ฉากการพบกันครั้งแรกก็น่าประทับใจจนต้องติดตามอ่านแล้วล่ะ
I've been reading Nora Roberts like crazy this summer, and this is definitely my least favorite so far. It was by no means bad and I actually really liked it at first, but I had to convince myself to keep on picking it up this last week so I could finish and I was able to put it aside for 8 days and start/finish other books instead - never a good sign.
A random selection which turned out to be a good one. The best thing about NR books are the variety of work profile she brings on to the table.Like always shes done a wonderful job of creating lovable characters, the bickering between Jed and Dora a real treat!
