https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/8812648-my-kind-of-girl
All those memories seemed to have been wiped clean, I thought I had forgotten them all-- but suddenly, after our conversation, it's all come back so clearly."This was a relatively short and simple read about four middle-aged Indian men, strangers, sharing a train compartment.
After witnessing a young newlywed couple, they decide to tell each other stories (four in total) about first loves in their youth.I found the stories quite readable and compelling, funny at times too.
Each story looked at a different aspect of love, as well as being interesting looks at nostalgia and memories.
My Kind of GirlAuthor: Buddhadeva Bose (In Bengali)Translated to English: Arunava SinhaPublication: Random House IndiaPrice: 350/-I always saw this book cooling its heels in the rack of my book store. The cover & packaging was classy and so was the price. I always felt that for a 171 page book the price was too much. And then on a rainy day I picked the book sat on red couch of the book store & was hooked to it in no time. Needless to say the book was bought & possessed.On a cold Dec
Needless to say the book was bought & possessed.On a cold December night a doctor, a bureaucrat, a contractor & a writer are stuck in the waiting room of Tundla Railway station.
In the present times of fast paced life and faster love life’s the book makes you sit back and yearn for the times when you could not pester your boy friend with unlimited missed calls.
It makes you yearn for the times when the best way to pass time as a couple was to go for a walk not mall hopping.Sigh!!!A lovely book about love!!!5/5 from me.
I first came across Buddhadeva Bose in the dusty shelves of a second-hand bookstore in Bangalore earlier this year.
While 'It Rained All Night' was impressive, it is 'My Kind Of Girl' that really made me understand why Buddhadeva Bose is considered one of the finest Bengali writers.
They recount stories from their past of their lost loves.
Not all the loves were lost, don't despair.
Bose weaves in beautiful descriptive narration with the utter poignancy of emotion.
If the translation itself is so good, I can't imagine how good the original Bengali must be!
They were all simple tales but together they form a subtle whole.Romantic love is the subject of My Kind of Girl (1951, English 2010) by Buddhadeva Bose (1908-1974), a prolific Bengali writer.
Also, they can be cruel and heartbreaking and yet still enlarge the heart, by a few millimeters at least."The more I heard about love, the more I wanted it," a dejected character cried out at one point in the story he was telling.
The four voices in My Kind of Girl, spun in a kind of addictive prose, somehow tells of it.The novel reminded me of another book set in the region.
Four middle-aged strangers - a doctor, bureaucrat, contractor and writer - regale each other with stories of unrequited adolescent love in the waiting room of a railway station on a bitterly cold night.
The book was originally published in 1951 & the almost knight-like quality of putting women on a pedestal from afar is certainly reflected in the modest stories these men tell, stories prompted by them seeing a couple in love, stories they share of some type of love from their own pasts.
Supposedly Bose was/is considered one of the great talents of Bengali literature, but while I thought the stories were fine, I wonder if something wasn't lost in translation just a bit?
In the end, I'll say it is a solid 3 star book; I'm glad to have read something by a Bengali author, the tales were mildly interesting, but there was no great pull for me.
Each story is one of unrequited or impossible love in its purest form, and through them the reader learns more about each man, the Indian middle class after independence, and the hurdles that made it difficult for young people to find true love in a society that was becoming more Westernized and modern.My Kind of Girl is a light hearted and beautifully written short novel, which was originally published in 1951 and reissued in English translation for the first time by Archipelago Books this month.
The premise is intriguing and after years of just putting it on my wishlist, I finally ordered and bought it.With clean but sophisticated prose (I'm reading the translated version), the author manages to convey four people's love stories in such a simplistic way.
It gives insight into the lives of people in India in that era, as well as their customs, which is a pleasure to read about.The ending is quiet, nothing dramatic but it gives us a long pause to think about the whole book.
Somehow it is more perfect that way.I'm not sure about the rest of the author's books, but I think I'll seek them out and give them a try.
A quiet, lovely stories-on-a-theme book from India.
The stories--dealing with memories of adolescence and early adulthood years--all center on the conflict between the Ideal and the Real, on the “mystery of womanhood,” and on those turning-point decisions, roads that are memorable because they were taken or not, in one’s past.
(The plots involve a fair number of misunderstandings and lack of nerve.) Each of the men gained access, for a short time, to an exceptional window on womanhood, and in each case they came away from it only more mired in enigma and emotional mysticism than before.
"La manera de narrar del autor indio es efectiva y sobria, huye de los dramatismos y consigue distinguir bien a los cuatro protagonistas". Más en https://capitulocuarto.wordpress.com/...
Bose writes with clarity, simplicity, and tenderness concerning matters of the heart, and the unexpected paths life takes. My Kind of Girl is a novella perfect for escaping with into a lazy, reminiscing sort of afternoon.
On a winter night, four strangers sit in the waiting room, in a railway station, awaiting their delayed train.A glimpse of a young couple rekindles old memories and they decide to pass time by recounting their first love story to each other.It was clear from the beginning, none of the stories they would share are going to be epic romances.
Is it possible to feel an ache of nostalgia for a period you haven’t even known?But then I guess the narrators of these four stories bring along the nostalgia of youth that has passed, of the women that they thought of sometimes, on nights like these, on mention of their first love.The beauty of anthologies is they are beautiful together, than their independent stories.
Cuatro hombres de profesiones distintas se ven obligados a pasar la noche juntos en la sala de espera de una estación de tren, y cada uno de ellos narra la historia de amor de juventud que les marcó. Ninguna especialmente romántica a mi parecer. No tiene más.
It was ok. Four stories of told of past love... I always enjoy books that take place in India
মোনালিসা,আমি ছাড়া কে তোমাকে মনে রেখেছে ।।
What exactly is Love, is it the feeling that bounds two hearts together, does it need to be expressed or reciprocated, is a mere glance sufficient enough to infer the feeling of love.
I'm not sure why this book is called My Kind of Girl. In any event I am pleased to have read it. There are some touching stories in this novella. My favourite is Makhanlal's Sad Tale. My Kind of Girl is made up of untraditional tales of love that are at times romantic. There is also exploration of life in India. I recommend it to those who like to read about India and or relationships.
I enjoyed this book so very much... Each story is beautifully told! Bittersweet stories; I really did like all of them, the third and fourth ones - the best - and then, the first and second ones. (An observation: Bits of the fourth story reminded me of Prince Ahmed and the Fairy Pari Banu... Did anyone else think so, too?)
Translated from Bengali, 4 men, strangers stranded in a waiting room when their train is delayed, pass the time by telling a story from their past of a girl they had loved and lost, loved from afar, or loved and won. Very well written and the stories are captivating.
Arunava Sinha's translation reads very well. I can't comment on how faithful it is to the original but it flows, never seems awkward.The beauty here is not in the plot but in the story telling. Simple stories beautifully told.
Livro para quem vai amar, ama, ou já amou. Combinação de quatro histórias contadas por quatro homens durante uma noite fria em uma estação de trem: burocrata, médico, empreiteiro, escritor. No background, a Índia em transformação, se modernizando.
Beautiful stories that give you an insight on India, even if from another era :)
I liked it a lot.It was an easy read, and really deep. But some stories were rather "weak" compare to other, really touching and quite universal.
yo soy una mezcla de Gagan Baran y Ramen. Muy bueno, muy muy bueno.
This book had rave reviews when I came across it but it didn't speak very loudly to me. Lacked imagery and descriptions of the very lush culture it depicts. Meh.
Made me want to move to India...beautifully written and rich with detail
Like a collection of short stories in one. Nice read when you don't want to read something heavy. Going to definitely read Bengali translations more.
Beautiful, philosophic book on love, life and memories. Clear well-crafted prose which makes the book a fast read which one wants to savour at the same time.
There are four stories told through the frame of four travellers stuck in a railway station. Two of these stories are interesting and hold the reader's attention. The other two barely make a mark.
Marginal. If it was more than 150 pages, I wouldn't have finished it. 5.5 out of 10
