https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/4588.Extremely_Loud_and_Incredibly_Close
Can I use the excuse of being in shock during the actual event?
The journey that the boy, Oskar, takes in this book is beautiful.
When Oskar is anxious he describes it as ‘wearing heavy boots’ and when his Grandmother likes something or in a good mood she uses the term ‘that was One Hundred Dollars’ and then there’s a whole mention of a ‘Birdseed shirt’ that I’m still unclear about but enjoy the imagery of.But, this isn’t just Oskar’s journey..
and fuck if you are a writer that can somehow come up with the means to tell a story, a small story even, to summarize the totality of what it means to be alive on planet earth and to live amongst and around all these people and memories and ghosts and all the potential and possibilities...
I’m not as smart as my goodreader friends.
And I suck at life.Of the 40 of you “friends” who read this, this is how you rated it:5-stars: 18 people 4-stars: 13 people3-stars: 7 people2-stars: 2 people1-star: 0 peopleSomething wrong with me indeed.(Or something wrong with all of you.)No. I didn’t finish it.
I listened to it.
People tell me if I had read it instead of listening to it I would have liked it more.
I now tell them that I don’t care.I have returned this grouping of compact discs to my local library.
Don’t cry for me Argentina.
It’s your birthday, don’t cry if you want to.
Okay, please don’t.
I’m done.
Extremely Loud and Incredibly Close takes readers who thought they might have seen a glimmer of greatness in Everything is Illuminated and convinces them all they really saw were special effects.It’s very difficult to read Foer’s second novel without reflecting on his first.
Everything is Illuminated began in such an original way that a reader forgave the 150 or so dull pages of less-than-compelling writing that came along throughout the rest of the book.
Foer takes a large subject and makes it tiny.But sometimes, I’ve learned, large things must be tiny.
But then, that’s why we don’t publish books written by nine-year-olds.
Oh, wow.
I happen to think it means his efforts were an abject failure, and that he has a great many readers and critics completely snowed.With a book like this, you either accept it as charming wistfulness, or you don’t.
I think most people in today’s age of texting while driving and non-stop news alerts and picture-in-picture don’t actually read every word on the page anyway.
I would also like to say that what with all this smiling through tears, the grandma, the grandfather, the old guy who can hear again, the mom who is probably schmoozing with some guy in the next room, the sad quest to find the Blacks of New York, AND 9/11 AND let's throw Hitler into the mix, you don’t have to look any further for a dictionary definition of emotional blackmail.
Extremely Precocious and Incredibly Irritating
In my defense, at least everyone could see that writing matters to me and I appreciate quality literature, which further proves my already-established qualifications as a tutor.But then I got to the climax of the book, and I was moved by how the climax was written because it felt so "real" to me, because it captured how I feel and think (if those things could be replicated in language other than poetry), and I loved the characters as I love my families, and I loved the twist in the plot and how it came together in a way I didn't think it would come together because I was being skeptical and I thought it would be more trite, so I'm reading in the middle of this common room but I wouldn't call it reading as much as I would call it immersing myself into the novel when I start crying.
Extremely Loud and Incredbily Close: Jonathan Foer's novel of love, loss, and memoryThere are events that leave an indelible stamp on us for a great portion of our lives.
His grief is all the more palpable because he is extremely gifted and incredibly cursed with an intelligence far more gifted than children his age.Oskar shared a bond with his father, who fostered that intelligence, by devoting great attention on his son, gently lulling him to sleep at nights by reading him the New York Times and circling the errors they found in red ink.
Still, if this was a short story and I reached the point where the Dad is about to talk to his son before the towers collapse, I would be excited by the cleverness of the moment, would look forward to the conversation, and be pleased in anticipation of the genuine anguish that must be coming.
It's the first chapter in what is a pretty long book, and I imagine all manner of excruciating crapness is to come.
I just saw it on sale, knew it had good buzz, liked the cover and thought, "What the hell?!" I need to reexamine my impulse buying, apparently, because I would not have bought this book if I'd known what it was about before I did.
It is so radically different and almost as complex and perfect as his first work.
(Speaking of which, where & when will we see Foer's 3rd!?) Radical because in this one the reader flips through pages in a suspect fervor to navigate a, lets say it, mixed media novel.
In this fictional world, suddenly everyone is unrude and all denizens of New York City are complex in a positive way.
(...though there is a reason.) Oscar Schell, perhaps the biggest problem I see in the novel (The!
Protagonist!), truly reflects a New York City post 9-11 that's probably all too sure of itself for its own good.
285, the first sentence reads, “The day after the renter and I dug up Dad’s grave, I went to Mr. Black’s apartment.” We know that when Oskar does go to Mr. Black’s apartment, he retrieves a biograph card from Mr. Black’s index.
How, then, is it possible that directly before the grave digging operation, Oskar is able to relate to his grandfather (the “renter”) the details of what he learned in his meeting with William Black (p.
302) if the grave digging operation itself is supposed to have happened the day before retrieving the biograph card??If someone could explain that last part for me, I’d greatly appreciate it.
If I would have seen a page full of question marks I think I might have thrown the book across the room!
A boy loses his father and finds a key in an envelope with the name "Black" on it.
He has weird grandparents who like to write him letters about their sex life and who really didn't add anything to the plot of the story that I could tell.
The book had pages of meaningless pictures.
He filled over a dozen pages with pictures of someone's loved one falling to their death from one of the burning towers of 9/11.
Apparently, Foer would at times not use proper punctuation, or would clump words on top of each other so that they appeared to look like scribbles, or would insert photographs, or even leave several pages blank.
I mean, there is mention of a memoir having nothing but blank pages, but that is part of the story itself...
there was no sense of actual blank pages within Foer's book.
Sometimes I get annoyed by the fact that my current situation limits me to audiobooks, as I miss having a real book in my hand and reading the words on a page in my own voice with my own interpretation.
Now that I've read it, I'm not sure it was the right choice.Extremely Loud and Incredibly Close is the story of Oskar Schell, a nine year old possible genius with issues whose father died in the World Trade Center collapse.
After discovering a mysterious key, he wanders New York's five boroughs, meeting people and drawing closer to the end of his quest.I loved the Oskar Schell character, a smart boy who has trouble fitting in, and I loved the idea of a boy on quest.
The ending denied the book an entire star for me.Even so, Extremely Loud and Incredibly Close was not without its charm.
Extremely Loud and Incredibly Close is Jonathan Safran Foer’s love letter to New York City.
This love letter takes place just after the September 11th attacks on the World Trade Center, and it gives me the feeling of Foer sewing up the wounds of the city.
I would say the same about Afghanistan, Nicaragua, Dresden, and Hiroshima.On a lighter and more bitchy note, Nicole Krauss is married to Foer, and her book The History of Love is very, very similar to Extremely Loud.
In fact, all of this, everything in this book, is more figurative and sentimental than many readers care for, but what do you expect from a love letter?
I got sad because that classmate of mine was close to me but I did not have those deep and mind-blowing thoughts that Foer made for Oskar.
Instead, the Oskar in this novel cries in every opportunity and says “I love you” as his second language like a big star in an afternoon television series.
When he cries and says that he loves you, that’s heart shattering and you’ll say that Foer is a genius and this book should have a movie.
A father always think of his child's life or safety first before his own.My first time to read a Foer and I am just blown away.
One of the most beautifully written and impactful stories ive read.
While I wouldn't want every book to be written like that, because it's a bit like riding a roller coaster in the dark with strobe lights, it sure is fun every once in a while.Jonathan Safran Foer, the author, writes the tale of a nine year old boy named Oskar Schell, whose father was in the World Trade Center when the planes flew into them on September 11th.
I told her, "He had cells, and now they're on rooftops, and in the river, and in the lungs of millions of people around New York, who breathe him every time they speak!"The book also tells the story of Oskar's paternal grandparents.
I couldn't like this fucking selfish kid who tells his mother that he wishes he had a choice which parent died, who can't comprehend his mother or his grandmother having a life outside of him, who actually thinks things like "Why is she not waiting at the door?
GAH!Half of this story is about Oskar's Grandma and Grandpa, and the shit's so convoluted and goddamn stupid that at the end I seriously could not believe that paper was wasted on this.
So I'll just tell you that I literally hated reading about it, because they were both so stupid and I could not comprehend why they couldn't just TALK to each other.
Perhaps I'm just stupid, but I don't get this book, nor am I really crazy about it.It's a little too hip for me, in the sense that I don't think anybody really gets what the hell Foer is trying to say, but because it's obscure everyone likes it.Or maybe I'm just looking too much into the book.
It doesn't do it for me, but I might try to get through it one last time, mainly because I feel very guilty if I don't finish a book, despite how bad as I think it is.
Wilson 'No two persons ever read the same book.' I love an author that allows a story to just unfold; that leaves me to draw my own conclusions.
Well my spin is this is probably the most powerful anti-war book I’ve ever read.
It’s not depressing; in fact parts of it are really funny.
A survivor that emerges wounded but not shattered, perhaps by choosing to transfer all that bottled up love for his lost father to others.
It’s not the perfect novel, what is?
It’s strange but I finished this book feeling cautiously hopeful.
LOOK I WROTE A BOOK WITH PICTURES IN IT AND SOMETIMES PAGES OF NONSENSE. I GOT THE IDEA FROM DOUGLAS COUPLAND IN 1991. GIVE ME AN AWARD.
Oskar, a thoughtful kid full of quirks and handicaps, finds a key.
So the journey he goes on to find its (and his own) place in the world should be inspiring at least.
But although Oskar learns all sorts of interesting things everywhere he goes, he never really makes any progress.
And similarly, neither does the story.Right from the start, the prose is sharp, and the characters stand out.
The father particularly is just as likable as can be.
But the story as a whole moves in too many directions without ever really going anywhere.
There are quite a few novels that you either love or hate.
There’s Oskar who misses his dad who dies on 9/11 and there’s his grandfather who loses the love of his life in the bombing of Dresden and, melodramatically, refuses to speak from that day on.
In fact Dresden, like Hiroshima, seems a gratuitous service station in the novel.
It’s also a novel that has more sympathy for the male than the female.
It’s the males who get the best lines and make things happen in Foer’s world.
Extremely beautiful and incredibly lachrymose.
Like Oskar, Jonathan Safran Foer’s nine-year old protagonist, searching the city for the lock to fit his father’s key.
We need the words.Why didn’t he say goodbye?I gave myself a bruise.Why didn’t he say “I love you”?…you didn’t sound like someone who was about to die, I wish we could have sat across a table and talked about nothing for hours, I wish we could have wasted time, I want an infinitely blank book and the rest of time…Foer has a message I can’t afford to ignore.
I could write an endless review about this book and how amazing it is... but Im not going too, because I would never want to take or giveaway anything about this book. Youll want to feel every emotion this book gives off. such a powerful, beautiful, and moving novel.
This is a book about grief and how to deal with the loss of someone you love.
Oskar lost his father in 9/11 and is obviously filled with sorrow, pain and also guilt.
He loved his father dearly, and he doesn’t feel like he have that same special connection with has mother.
Naturally, this story (or most of it) is told from Oskar’s perspective and I loved those passages.
The rest of the book, though, is told from a different perspective, and I didn’t like that as much.
I wonder what the story would be like told from the mother’s perspective...
