https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/32148570-before-we-were-yours
But the love of sisters needs no words. It does not depend on memories, or mementos, or proof. It runs as deep as a heartbeat. It is as ever present as a pulse. I still maintain that The Heart's Invisible Furies and Pachinko were more deserving of the Goodreads Choice Award for Historical Fiction, but I can definitely see why Before We Were Yours has had such an emotional impact on readers.Comparisons to Orphan Train make a lot of sense. The pacing and structure of both stories are similar, and
But, most of all, Before We Were Yours stands out for doing one of my absolute favourite things in historical fiction: exposing a largely unknown and horrific pocket of history.Alternating between the perspectives of privileged and successful Avery Stafford in the present, and twelve-year-old Rill Floss in depression-era Memphis, a story emerges linking Avery's grandmother to Rill and her four siblings, who were stolen from their riverboat home and their two loving parents.
I'd give this book 10 stars if I could!
I actually think this novel was enhanced by the superb narration!
There are two storylines going on in this novel, one in 1939 and one is present day.
I thought the writing was wonderful and so were the characters in both storylines.
As gut wrenching as this novel is I feel it is an important story that must be read!
There is a bit of chick lit to the part of this story taking place in modern day.
In my humble opinion it's a much better book.Highly recommended!!!
May you always know the valueof your work and your love.This book is about the Foss children.
They are fictional in the book but taken from real life stories.
The stories of this horrible woman, Georgia Tann, who had children stolen from poor families and sold to rich families.
Those that actually survived living at the Tennessee Children's Home Society.
You can google and find out tons of information Here is a photo of the evil woman.
Here is a picture of a memorial to the hundreds of children who died.
Oh. My. Goodness. What a great read..... If you're ready for a story you can really sink your teeth into with characters that virtually come to life, here you go. "Adoption matron may have been most prolific serial killer." BEFORE WE WERE YOURS takes the reader on a heartbreaking, but mesmerizing journey depicting shocking truths about the real life Tennessee Children's Home Society that was active from the 1920's thru 1950.....an organization that basically schemed, lied, kidnapped and brokered

The true story portion was the horrible things that happened for over 30 years in the Tennessee Children's Home Society orphanage.
The two stories are told from the point of view of a family of children ripped from their parents and put through the system and a woman, a bit lost, trying to figure out what her family is hiding after an elderly woman mistakes her for someone else.What I liked:*The story from the point of view of Rill - OMG, so heartbreaking.
What a heart-wrenching, powerful and emotional read!I’ll start by explaining that ever since I laid eyes on this cover a few months ago, I haven’t stopped thinking of this book.
I have a hard time accepting this actually happened – it is so shocking and upsetting.This novel follows the lives of the five Foss siblings who grow up living on a Mississippi River shantyboat with their parents in 1939.
One of the children, Twelve-year-old Rill Foss, grows up taking care of her younger siblings, often fulfilling parental roles.
However, Rill's story more than makes up for it.
Through the telling of this story, Lisa Wingate sheds light on the despicable real life actions of Georgia Tann, a woman that ran a black market child trafficking ring masked as a legitimate adoption agency for decades in Tennessee.
Gradually, the two storylines intersect and the connection comes to light.The fictional story of the five Foss children parallels the real life experiences of hundreds of victims of Georgia Tann's illegal adoption agency, the Tennessee Children's Home Society.
Avery is left to follow the cryptic clues if she wants to unearth her grandmother's secrets, knowing it may be the downfall of her highly public family.This is the type of story that raises awareness and will leave you feeling outraged.
This novel pulls on the heartstrings, stirs outrage and horror, but at the end of the day the story was about familial bonds, and a spiritual connection that can not be broken, no matter what.
Wingate did a magnificent job of pulling the reader back in time, creating a realistic atmosphere, and building a fictional story around one of the most shocking black-market adoption operations in American history.
Avery is a central character, but she can’t compete with Rill, so the author wisely fattens up her part of the story with a little romance, which kept her character from simply becoming a means to an end.
Sometimes when the average rating for a book by 65, 652 people is 4.39...we are foolish to not read it.
Sometime books rated high - are Goodreads Choice Winners - really ‘are’ heartbreaking- beautiful- emotional - important - historical - powerful - eye opening - educational - ( based on real life scandals) - wonderful and compelling.Sad with a happy ending!
Thank you to the author Lisa Wingate for writing a book we needed to read.
Got suggestions??Lighting candles tonight on Valentines Day ....not for us .....but with thoughts of all the people who this devastating news in Florida day are hurting beyond anything I can imagine.
As in Orphan Train when I first learned about their existence or in What She Left Behind, which highlights the atrocities of a mental institution and in particular the treatment of women, this story inspired by real events relays the sad story of a family torn apart by the greed and horrible acts against children and their families.
The reality of what happened to numerous children from 1920 - 1960 is depicted through the story of five siblings taken illegally and subjected to the adoption for money system spearheaded by Tann.
It really is heartbreaking and though the characters are fictional, I couldn't help but think about the real children who were affected.
Told from two different points of view: Rill, now known as May, who experienced horrors most of us can’t even begin to imagine; and Avery, a former Federal Prosecutor and the Daughter of a Senator, who feels the need to live up to her families’ expectations at all times.Between the 1920’s-1950’s, The Tennessee Children’s Home Society was run by a matron named Georgia Tann.
My heart broke for all of the children who spent time in The Tennessee Children’s Home Society or any place that even remotely resembles that.
Two alternate stories, one in the past narrated by a young girl, whose brother and three sisters were taken from their parents and brought to this horrible place.
Blonde children were particularly valuable as they were more easily adopted, bringing the larger sums of money to it's notorious founder.
I did like how the stories come together in the end.
Of course these type and other injustices are not just confined to the past, and I can't help thinking about the injustices being committed in our present that readers will read about fifty years from now.
An amazing,don't want to put down, hold the book in a big hug and wish this story never ended.
Sigh* BUT....This grabbed me from the get go.
Two stories told simultaneously during 2 different time periods.
Avery's story, present day.
She's an attorney who has met up with a woman in a nursing home who says she looks familiar.
Curiosity starts to open this Pandora's box.
I loved the writing, I didn't mind the romance but it could have been a great story without it.
4.5 ⭐️ and a big thanks to Jen M.
This is based on one of America’s most notorious real-life scandals—in which Georgia Tann, director of a Memphis-based adoption organization, kidnapped and sold poor children to wealthy families all over the country—Wingate’s riveting, wrenching, and ultimately uplifting tale reminds us how, even though the paths we take can lead to many places, the heart never forgets where we belong.The siblings were kidnapped and taken to the Tennessee Children's Home Society in Memphis, Tennessee.
Georgia Tann did indeed facilitate the adoptions of children from the 1920's through the 1950's.
The past was the siblings earlier years and the horror they went through.
5 Stars - a heart wrenching, emotional and haunting read!    "But the love of sisters needs no words. It does not depend on memories, or mementos, or proof. It runs as deep as a heartbeat. It is as ever present as a pulse."  This book - how can I put in to words how it made me feel? It basically tore my heart into a million pieces but also filled it at the same time. How is that even possible? The answer is actually quite simple - the Foss children. Their tale was one of unimaginable loss and h
5 Stars - a heart wrenching, emotional and haunting read!
It basically tore my heart into a million pieces but also filled it at the same time.
This story was powerful and I loved the way it unfolded in alternating voices and time periods.
I knew these characters were fictional BUT they were sharing a very horrific reality of many children and families and I was very aware of that as I read this story.
It haunted me, touched me deeply and made reading this book such a moving and emotional experience.
The present day was filled with mystery and secrets while the past was filled with heartbreak and hope...5 simply stunning stars!🌟🌟🌟🌟🌟WOW!
and even though the historic part of this book was horrific and tragic, I could still see the hope, the good and the cultural Pride of the southern people.....This book took place during the 1940s as well as the present day....Rill A feisty river girl and her siblings were basically stolen and taken to the Tennessee Children’s Home....
While this novel is based on historical events and real persons who existed in Tennessee in the first half of the 20th century, preying on poor families and their children, I found that I had great difficulty relating to it, primarily because of the contemporary story and the primary protagonist.
But the total presentation still bothers me, particularly the "heroine" of the contemporary story, who might have stepped out of a romance novel.
And romance is fine, but must it be such a large component of what should be such a serious historical novel.
I only wish the contemporary story had seemed as serious to me.
"For the hundreds who vanished and for the thousands who didn't. May your stories not be forgotten. For those who help today's orphans find forever homes. May you always know the value of your work and your love." The Tennessee Home for Children (T.H.C.) was run and operated by Georgia Tann during the first half of the twentieth century. Although some children living in the home truly were orphans, there were many others that were torn from their homes. The reason?The mother may have been unwed
The Tennessee Home for Children (T.H.C.) was run and operated by Georgia Tann during the first half of the twentieth century.
Although some children living in the home truly were orphans, there were many others that were torn from their homes.
In addition, there were "spotters" that would look for vulnerable targets to kidnap and place under the care of the T.H.C. If this weren't bad enough, the children were horribly abused and mistreated.
Georgia Tann illegally adopted ,no sold,these children to the highest bidder, as if they were cattle.
Rill lived and breathed the river.
PRELUDEBaltimore, Maryland AUGUST 3, 1939 “My story begins on a sweltering August night, in a place I will never set eyes upon. The room takes life only in my imaginings. It is large most days when I conjure it. The walls are white and clean, the bed linens crisp as a fallen leaf. The private suite has the very finest of everything. Outside, the breeze is weary, and the cicadas throb in the tall trees, their verdant hiding places just below the window frames. The screens sway inward as the attic
This is the story of the Tennessee Children’s Home Society, the facility, “home,” where Rill Foss, who will be renamed May Weathers, and her siblings who become wards, as well, are also all renamed by Georgia Tann.
Though Rill and her siblings exist only in these pages, their experiences mirror those reported by children who were taken from the families from the 1920s through 1950.“The true story of Georgia Tann and the Memphis branch of the Tennessee Children’s Home Society is a bizarre and sad paradox.
This Memphis-based adoption organization was absolutely horrific in the way that they treated and exploited these children.We thought that LISA WINGATE did a wonderful job at shedding light onto this story of how these children were exploited and of course, it was very heartbreaking and shocking to read about.
Brenda and I read BEFORE WE WERE YOURS with four of our Traveling Sisters and we were split on how we felt about this one with some of us loving it much more.
I finished reading this late into the night and I still can't get it out of my head.
It was such a Strong, Emotional and Heart-wrenching read!!
Any book that can make me feel the way I did, and make me cry the way I did, deserves nothing less than the FULL 5 Stars.
Still, as I am writing this I can feel it.
It has been a good while since I have read something that will say with me forever.
I still don't know how I feel about the way it all ended.
4.5This is a story that taught me about a time in history. In the 1930-1950's there was a woman named Georgia Tann who ran The Tennessee Children's Home Society, that stole children from poor families and sold them.The story of the sisters in this book, from a poor "river" family, is based on this history. It is really heart wrenching what happened to this family, but it was a beautifully told, and moving story.
This books sheds light on a another dark time in our nation's history - sad times for the children and families affected.
When she meets with the woman, questions arise.
Avery goes on a quest to learn the truth and to find out what connection this woman, May, has with her family.
This book goes back and forth from 1939 to the present day.
The Author shows the reader how Georgina Tann stole the children not only from their families but from their culture, their way of life, from their own identity and created new lives for them.
One night her parents have to leave all five children home alone to rush their mother to the hospital.
I had not heard of this children's home or the true life Georgia Mann.
I'm glad that the author did take the time to spotlight this dang evil woman.
The children's story line in this book was my favorite as the present day one just never connected for me.
I can't imagine how these parents felt when their children were taken and there was nothing they could do.This is the face of an evil ass woman.

Where you have the kiss of innocence, you also have the lurking snarl of evil who prey upon it.A stormy, hostile night finds Queenie Foss in the throws of giving birth to twins on a shanty boat on the river.
The actual Georgia Tann died in anguish in her bed of uterine cancer.......the very organ that embraces the unborn.....the wombs that she stole from.Lisa Wingate shifts the story to the parallel of the present day with Avery Stafford in South Carolina following the trail of her grandmother, Judy.
Lisa Wingate weaves a well thought out plot with memorable characters and while there were a couple of times in the story where I thought ok perhaps that was a little too convenient or contrived but I just tossed it aside as the enjoyment of the story far out weighted any tiny issues I might have had towards the end.So happy to have purchased a hard copy of this novel as another beauty to add to my real life book shelf and the dust cover is staying firmly in place on this one.
Its themes of adoption for profit, out-dated adoption practices, separation of siblings, orphanages, child exploitation and abuse are certain to horrify you as well as pull on your heartstrings.
I knew a single mother who gave birth to a child in a home for unwed mothers in the era this book was written.
In recent months I have also read several books on DNA testing and how it might be used to bring adoptive children and birth parents back together, not always with good results.
The story of the main characters was fiction but based on what really happened to many of the children in this orphanage.The plot is written from two points of view, that of Rill, later named May by her adoptive parents and Avery, the daughter of a senator whose grandmother is now in a nursing home.
From Rill’s story we learn about the children, many of whom were living in river shanty boats or other very low income type housing who were literally stolen away from their parents.
I went in to this book not knowing very much about it.
I had not read very many reviews and it was recommended to me.
The author takes an almost unthinkable chapter in our nation’s history and tells a story of most compelling power.
That someone like Georgia Tann and her Memphis Tennessee Children’s Home Society could actually exist, is shocking.
Countless lives of children were affected, stealing their pasts and changing their futures, will give you chills.
.This book is a gripping story about two families, and secrets.
It's compelling, shocking, heartbreaking and very well told.
I would recommend this book.
