https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/64710.The_First_and_Last_Freedom
Out of every "spiritual" book I have read, this one takes the cake. Krishnamurti takes a more philosophical and psychological approach to why we're miserable. Unlike most other books, Krishnamurti doesn't shove pseudo-wisdom in your face and tell you what you need to do to attain enlightenment. He makes rational observations. The result is similar to reading a Dostoevsky novel. You will notice things about yourself that you absolutely hate. You will become more in touch with yourself - which in the authors mind, is society; and by changing yourself, you are changing society for the better.
Several years ago, I came to the conclusion that no form of government could limit itself sufficiently and therefore there is no hope that a geographic monopoly on the use of force with the right to demand taxes under threat of violence (ie., government) could result in a free and just society.
I tried to be "aware" in this way for a couple of days and found both that it is possible and that it was heading toward Krishnamurti's promised "liberation," but it took such a tremendous amount of concentration that I question whether self-supporting people can really do this and still function economically.I am still trying to determine if I believe his solution is the only solution (and I'm leaning toward saying that I do) and am also trying to determine if it could actually happen (and I'm leaning toward thinking that it can't).
Someone once gave me this book for no reason known to me. Then began the madness and transformation of my life.
I love this Indian philosopher. A nugget from him;“It is no measure of health to be well adjusted to a profoundly sick society.”
فيه تلتقي بك.
من غير شائبة، تتعرفك، تعرفك، وتستكشفك.
ومن غير أن تقتحمك.يناقش في هذا الكتاب كريشنا مورتي موضوعات متنوعة تشمل المعاناة، الخوف، الثرثرة، الوحدة والجنس وغيرها من الموضوعات الكثير، على نحو مختلف تمامًا عما ندعوه بنقاش.
إذ أن قراءة هذا الكتاب بمثابة جلسة نقية تلتقي فيها بروحك على نحو لم يسبق لك وأن التقيت بها.
إنه كتابٌ محمل بالطمأنينة، كيف لا وهو من أولى الكتب التي أقرأها ذات اسم على مسمى بكل ما تحمله الكلمة من معنى.
دَعُوكم الآن من كل الكتب التي بين يديكم، ولوقتٍ قصير، وإبدأوا بقراءة هذا الكتاب، لعلكم تتَحرّرون وتُحرّرون.
خلاصة فكر الفيلسوف الهندي جودو كريشنامورتي، يقع في جزئين، الجزء الأول، يفكك فيه معظم المفاهيم والأنماط التفكيرية، ويطرح موضوعات الفرد والمجتمع، البحث الوجودي، الفعل، منابع الفكر.. وغيره. أما الجزء الثاني فهو أهم الأسئلة التي أجاب عنها كريشنامورتي في لقاءاته مع مريديه. هذا الكتاب للدراسة، والتأمل، ويقرأ على مهل.
When my mentor recommended that I read Jiddu Krishnamurti's works, I thought they would be Deepak Chopra-esque pseudo-profound books, and so it was with a sense of dread that I picked up "The First and Last Freedom" (or in my case, downloaded the PDF).
Everything within it is sensible and even obvious, and many times I found Krishnamurti completing thoughts that I had already started having (God being used for gratification, for instance, or people only seeking what they already know).
This book challenges everything I have been taught, and I recommend it to anyone who is finding religion to be rather shallow.
In the Spring of every year, Krishnamurti would come speak under a large oak in a quiet grove near Ojai, California. We would take a blanket, spread it out on the grass, and listen. This book will give readers an idea of his thinking, but it was his silence that really penetrated and made us intrigued to know what he was saying.
Lo pongo como ejemplo, en representación de todo lo que he leído de este maestro. Es mucho más que un libro y representa para mí la esencia del aprendizaje definitivo. Cualquiera de las palabras de Krishnamurti abre directamente en la mente y en el pecho el espacio de la verdad.
“The self is a problem that thought cannot solve.”Reading Krishnamurti is often a disorienting experience.
In a nutshell Krishnamurti is all challenge and no message.Lastly then, is the ambiguity of just what that challenge is.
Leaving us no shelter, even the shrewdest among us are confounded until we concede to what is ultimately a sentiment found in nearly any religion and philosophy: Know thy self.
The great difference being that Krishnamurti–the cheeky bastard–rather then telling us what there is to know, insists this can only be done by: getting to know thy self.
I was reading this book with so much interest for the first 160 pages or so but, when i came to realize the totality of his belief- that the truth is a pathless land- it hit me: why would something entirely incommunicable be written in a book?
That's where Krisnamurti's BELIEFS really fell apart for me.I'd hand it to him, he speaks extremely clear and has a very sharp intellect.
For example, he criticizes meditation as concentration for the sake of escape but fails to realize that people don't always concentrate to escape: others escape to concentrate.
Vẫn đang đọc rất chậm ...-Sky-
To understand the misery and confusion that exists within ourselves and the world, we must first find clarity within ourselves, and that clarity comes about through right thinking.
Clarity is not the result of verbal assertion, but of intense self awareness and right thinking.
Awareness brings understanding, because there is no condemnation or identification but silent observation.
Relationship is really a process of self-revelation, which is a process of self-knowledge; in that revelation there are many unpleasant things, disquieting, uncomfortable thoughts, activities.On boredom:  If you are not interested in why you are bored, you cannot force yourself to be interested in an activity, merely to be doing something like a squirrel going round in a cage.
To be more precise, this is not even a book in the strictest of senses; perhaps a series of discourse on wide range of topics including self-knowledge, awareness, desire, relationship, time, present-crisis, loneliness, suffering, sex, simplicity, meaning of life, transformation, and so on.
It is that simple, as the title itself suggests awareness to be the first and the last freedom.Another thing, Krishnamurti has utterly rubbished out knowledge, philosophy, beliefs, meditation and yoga in the form of escapism, words, language, dogmas (well, I was reminded of those inspirational twaddles you see these days on instagram/facebook quite a lot; though I adore some of them myself and wish them to keep on coming).
La libertad primera y última es una recopilación de charlas que dio Jiddu Krishnamurti a lo largo de su vida sobre distintos temas existenciales; el amor, el sexo, la religion, el poder, el miedo, el deseo, el sufrimiento, la verdad, la libertad, el pensamiento, el conocimiento, la sencillez, el ego, el odio, la comprensión, entre muchos otros.Si hay algún líder espiritual al que admire, ese es Jiddu Krishnamurti, su filosofía me parece de lo más lógica y realista.
Krishnamurti has an incredible ability to break down complex daily life questions, regarding religion, nationalism, sex, and just about anything else you can think of, into very simple pieces and address with correspondingly straightforward solutions.
If you can analyze where your thoughts and feelings come from and what conditioning has built up in your mind throughout your life that causes conflict in your life (i.e. an ingrained desire to be rich and successful due to years of societal pressure to do so), you can dissolve that conflict in your mind and reach closer to truth.Only critique would be that his ability to break problems down to their most basic elements means that his answers to 38 questions can tend to be a bit repetitive.
"What you understand leaves no mark"To meet every challenge fresh and without preconceived notions - this is the theme central to Krishnamurti's philosophy.
It is a very powerful idea, one which we know works, and is central to spiritual gurus (like Osho, Thich Nhat Hanh, Eckhart Tolle) whose ideas are based around and constitute Eastern philosophy.
The method of tireless scrutiny he dictates is painfully honest.
It requires great focus to develop such persistence in inspecting one's actions and urges, of which Krishnamurti was a master.
I found him illuminating and precise, so I wanted to read an actual book.I enjoyed the first couple of chapters, but then I started to realize that Krishnamurti is full of contradictions, even in the chapter on contradictions.
They started piling up and I just had to drop the book halfway through, I couldn't stand reading it any further.Obvious contradictions aside, he tends to present a lot of things as "obvious facts" without realizing that he himself is full of assumptions which aren't factual at all.
So yeah, I didn't like it at all and I don't think I'll read anything from Krishnamurti again.
أفكار معقدة و عصية التنفيذ ... عرض الكاتب مجموعة كبيرة من أفكار غريبة توصل إلى السلام الداخلي و الخارجي برأيه و لكنه لم يوضح الكيفية لتطبيق هذه الأفكار على أرض الواقع و لم يذكر أية أمثلة واقعية تدعم أفكاره و تجعلها قريبة من المتلقي .... لم يعجبني الكتاب كمضمون فقد وجدته خال من أي قيمة أو محتوى قيم كما أن الأفكار التي طرحت برأيي غير منطقية و غير عقلية ... يحضرني في هذه اللحظة كتاب للدالاي لاما ( The art of happiness ) كتاب رائع و يستحق القراءة لغناه بأفكار عالمية و متحضرة .
اتعبني هذا الكتاب... خدعني ، جذبني ، ثم مالبث ان بدأ يلقي بأفكاري هنا وهناك... يسلط الضوء على المشكلة ، يضع حلاً ، ثم ينقضه... يدخل لأعماق الذات ، وفجأة يرمق منها كما يرمق السهم من القوس ...لا أُخفي متعتي أثناء قراءته ، لكنه برأيي لا يستحق العناء في قراءته.. كان عنوان سرده " التكرار في الأفكار "
Knishnamurti concisely expounds on living truthfully with oneself in relationship through self-study. It is what it is: “It cannot be taught in books. It has to be found from moment to moment, in the smile, in the tear, under the dead leaf, in the vagrant thoughts, in the fullness of love.”
رغم اختلاف افكاري كلياً مع ماذكر لكن الكاتب له فلسفته واستمتعت جداً بالكتاب اعادت نظره بالاشياء ومفهومها لي عودة ان شاء الله لقرائته مرة اخرى ..
http://dgvpawar.blogspot.in/2015/05/b...
Krishnamurti would say that since consciousness, which is thought, is conditionned by the past, it can never be free from its conditionning, and thus never truly understand that the objective truth, that which is fact, since it sees everything through a filter of memory and opinion.IntentionHe argues that we might no have the intention to understand, despite being discontent, and that our frustration gets 'canalized', meaning channelled in an unproductive way: instead of causing us to question life and ourselves deeply, we merely search for the closest branch, a superficial fix to our problems.
"...You see a lovely sunset , a beautiful tree in a field and when you first look at it, you enjoy it completely, wholly; but you go back to it with the desire to enjoy it again.
What happens when you go back with the desire to enjoy it?
There is no enjoyment, because it is the memory of yesterday's sunset that is now making you return that is pushing, urging you to enjoy.
That is, memory is intervening between you and the sunset, therefore there is no enjoyment, there is no richness, fullness of beauty..."
Fantastic, but I read this too early. I'll come back to it in due time.
Basically, his philosophy is about people understanding the way in which their own mind works better and how they must question their own beliefs to pull back the layers of the onion.For me, his philosophy in this book can be summarised pretty well in the following passage, which stood out most for me in the book:"The problems of the world are so colossal, so very complex, that to understand and so to resolve them one must approach them in a very simple and direct manner; and simplicity, directness, do not depend on outward circumstances nor on our particular prejudices and moods.
en dat kan voor ieder van ons verschillend zijn, maar het heeft wel een enorme impact op hoe we in het leven staan, hoe de maatschappij draait, hoe we (niet) met elkaar omgaan, hoe we iets (opnieuw) ervaren, hoe we ons laten (mis)leiden door eender wat en wie (politieke overtuiging, religieuze overtuiging, groepen, ideologieën, mensen "die het gemaakt hebben" [m.a.w., we kijken op naar beroemdheden, naar de rijken, ...
https://m7raby.wordpress.com/2018/12/... عندما سمعت اسم الكاتب وموطنه، ظننت أن الكتاب سيكون روحاني ومليء بثقافة الهندوس ورهبان التبت، بدلا من ذلك فوجئت بالتفكير العقلاني الذي يقدمه المؤلف. يأخذنا كريشنامورتي بمقاربته الفلسفية والنفسية لشرح لماذا أصبحنا بؤساء. فعكس معظم الكتب الأخرى، لا يدفع كريشنامورتي الحكمة الزائفة في وجهك بل يخبرنا بما تحتاج إلى القيام به لتحقيق التغيير. فهو يقدم لك ملاحظات عقلانية، والنتيجة مشابهة لقراءة رواية من روايات دوستويفسكي، فهو يُشرح النفس البشرية ويجعلك ترى المساوئ
هل الخوف هو الذي يدفعه إلى الفرار إلى المعتقدات والأفكار المنظمة ويجعله يفضل سحق المشاكل عن طريق سدها بدلاً من اعتبارها كما هي؟ هل هي أنانية ومصلحة تدفعه إلى الإدمان على الآخرين ، إلى الدولة ، إلى الدين؟ الفكرة المتصلبة من الموت التي تمنعه ​​من إلقاء القبض على الحياة كما هي ، دون إضافة الغرض والجهد والنتيجة؟ هذه بعض الأسئلة التي طرحها كريشنامورتي.
وأيضا صعوبة تنفيذ ما يقوله، فهناك بعض الأفكار لا تزال صعبة بالنسبة لي، لاستيعاب بعض المفاهيم - فالغموض الذي يكمن في هذا الكتاب هو أن الكاتب بدلا من إخبارنا بما يجب معرفته، يصر على أنه لا يمكن القيام بذلك إلا عن طريق التعرف على الذات، لكن التساؤل الذي شغل بالي هو كيف يمكن التقرب من ذاتي في هذا العالم المجنون، وسط الحروب، والابادات الجماعية، والجوع، وكل هذه الفوضى؟
Para los tiempos modernos "La libertad primera y última" supone una obra completamente rupturista con las grandes teorías filosóficas aceptadas por grandes empresas y gobiernos.
Esta ausencia de ejemplos está justificada por su autor en que la "verdad" es algo único, personal e irrepetible y por lo tanto no se puede mostrar, ya que pertenece a lo "desconocido".
Es llamativo el repudio que además siente por la imitación, que lleva según él, al sometimiento del individuo a la autoridad, y por tanto a una desaparición de libertad y a una falsa sensación de seguridad.
