https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/17727.The_Books_of_Magic
Great power comes at great cost and it may be more than he is willing to pay."Child, magic exists.
There are powers, and forces, and realms beyond the fields you know."The worlds Neil Gaiman has created in The Books of Magic are haunting and layered and will stick with you after you've finished the story and closed the book.So...
Not in a jarring way, just noticeably different."It's like there's a whole other world, that I never knew existed, side by side with the old one."Recommended for adults or mature teenagers.
Rather a who's who of the DC comic world of magic, mixed with a bit of real magic.What?
You bet!A kid very much like Harry Potter might have been starts a journey of discovery, with four wise(ass) men from the magical side of Detective Comics, ostensibly to see if he wants to keep upon the path of a magical destiny.
Perhaps it's just slumbering, waiting for that one good story to kiss us and shock us awake after long last?This one feels like a genuine Gaiman even though it's filled to the brim with stock DC franchise characters.
The four propose to show the boy the ways of magic and put a choice before him (to practice magic or to be "normal").The four issues of this book are the travels he undertakes with each of these "teachers".The first voyage leads through the past with the Stranger and we get to see Atlantis, Ancient Egypt, mythological creatures from ancient Greece and more.The second voyage is with John Constantine through the present, during which Tim encounters several contemporary practitioners as well as magical creatures like werewolves.The third voyage is with Doctor Occult, who takes the boy to the worlds parallel to ours (Fairyland chiefly amongst them) and we get to encounter a baba yaga as well as the queen herself, Titania.The fourth and final voyage is with Mr. E, who takes Tim into several possible futures until they reach the end of time itself.I must say, I'm used to top-notch writing from Gaiman but the story he conjured up here as well as certain revelations throughout the four issues defy description!
for a comic book nerd like myself, reading what is essentially a beautifully illustrated List of People & Things is a fun time.
but coming from the mind of the guy who wrote Sandman (an all-time favorite and the one long-running comic book series that i would recommend to anyone), i can't help but feel really disappointed.
best of all - for me at least - was a glimpse into the possible far-future and a tiny little bit in the corner of one panel there, showing Klarion the Witchboy kicking The Spectre's ass in a magic battle.
I belive in magic!!!http://bookwitch77.blogspot.rs/2018/0...
Hmmm....I'm not sure about this one. There were moments when I had no idea what he was talking about. There were some really cool sections that got me thinking. Sometimes the font changed to a style that was difficult to read. Oddly, G and S looked alike. I own this, so I may have to try this one again at another time.
17th book read in 2015.Number 213 out of 445 on my all time book list.Follow the link below to see my video review:https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Uqwko...
This book is magic, simple as that. A bit of a lengthy read, but you don't get the feeling of running around in circles or anything like that. It just flows effortlessly, despite being highbrow in some places, especially the last chapter, Road to Nowhere. (Reminds me to reread it) other than that, this is an amazing feat of textual magic.
I once read a breathless and poorly written article about how this book totally ripped off Harry Potter.
It's just a shame that online articles can't be physically ripped into tiny pieces and stomped upon.) Clearly, anything about bespectacled English kids who can do magic has to be stolen from Harry Potter, right?
Too bad the article author -- and this was published in the online edition of a respectable newspaper, mind you -- didn't notice that The Books of Magic and the Chrestomanci books referenced (Charmed Life and The Lives of Christopher Chant) were all written before Harry Potter.
"Magic...as delicate as a razor, as dangerous as a dream..."
this book is a real magic !!!
And somehow it doesn't surprise me that Neil Gaiman was responsible for that wizard's creation in "The Books of Magic." This brilliant four-part graphic novel is full of shadowy art, strange happenings and wild magic -- and while it was intended to be a story highlighting the more magical DC characters, it ended up taking a life of its own.
and ends up up to his neck in trouble After that, Dr. Occult takes Tim into the world of Faerie, where he comes across a great sleeping king, gets caught by Baba Yaga, and shown Gemworld, Skartaris, Pytharia, a tiny glimpse of Hell, and a brief trip into the Dreamworld.
12 year old Timothy Hunter has been chosen by the Trenchcoat Brigade to discover the lands of magic.
Will Timothy be able to choose if he wants to be a magician or not and can he handle the price of doing so?
Read on and find out for yourself.This was a pretty good graphic novel by Neil Gaiman.
The artwork is great too.
It is done by John Bolton who did his book Harlequin Valentine and more.
If you love whimsical stories by Neil Gaiman then be sure to check this book out at your local library and wherever books are sold.
It's just that I had no interest in it -- it looked at a glance like lazy writing covered by amazing art, and that Papyrus title font...!It might have just been the font, honestly.Anyway, Books of Magic isn't that great.
In his notes for League of Extraordinary Gentlemen, Alan Moore points out that in the age of the internet, writing an easter-egg-riddled comic really has no limits to the depths of obscurity for its references -- piecing the whole thing together as a sort of digital metatext is to be expected.
*Book source ~ LibraryFrom Goodreads:A quartet of fallen mystics dubbed the "TrenchCoat Brigade" is introduced in this first collection of the adventures of Timothy Hunter.
John Constantine, the Phantom Stranger, Dr. Occult, and Mister E take Hunter on a tour of the magical realms.
Along the way he's introduced to Vertigo's greatest practitioners of magic and must choose whether or not to join their ranks.
Though I’m not sure I understood parts of it.
Anyway, ever since I read about Constantine in The Sandman, he’s been a favorite character of mine.
I’m not sure Timothy got what they were trying to tell him.
Is it just me or does this feel like a very philosophical Harry Potter? Could be the glasses...Timothy Hunter has magic and the potential to become one of the most evil people ever. There's a bunch of characters dedicated to teaching him how to use his powers (hopefully) for good.It's a bunch of long walks discussing how magic works with quick tricks in between these long-winded talks. Wasn't a big fan.Blog | Instagram | Twitter
Un avis rara maravillosa. Me alegra haber leído este cómic que lamentablemente ya está descatalogado. He disfrutado de los cameos de Constantine, el Fantasma Errante, el Dr Occult y Mister E junto a Tim. Ah y no puedo olvidarme de Espectro, Dr Destino y los Eternos. Tanto si eres un aficionado del cómic con mayúsculas como de Neil Gaiman esta es una joyita que tienes que leer.
4.5 / 5No sé lo que esperaba de este cómic pero sin duda lo que resultó ser se aleja años luz. Magia y belleza al más puro estilo de Gaiman. Es imposible para este autor decepcionarme.
Read this again after years have gone by. Still love it. Knowing what happens to Tim Hunter in the series after this mini-series, it is fun seeing his eyes being opened to possibilities. It was fun to go back...
Uživala kao nekad u Mikijevom zabavniku, pošto je i ovo niz štosno upakovanih klišea, samo za odrasle.

Gaiman no decepciona. Empezó muy bien y el final no ha sido tan bueno, demasiado raro todo lo del viaje al futuro... Pero por las tres primeras partes merece la pena leerlo.El dibujo a veces marea un poco, pero le pega mucho a la historia. Y Constantine es genial.Es el primer comic de Neil Gaiman que leo y me ha animado a seguir leyendo más comics suyos.
Constantine, Mister E, Doctor Occult and the Stranger approach Timothy Hunter, a kid with a potential to wield very powerful magic.
Each member of the Trenchcoat Brigade will take Tim to meet people attuned to various aspects of magic in the past, present and future.(view spoiler)[The Stranger takes Tim into the past, to a young Merlin who can see his own future and demise, but can't prevent it.Constantine takes the boy to New York where Madam Xanadu reads his cards.
They are bailed out by Constantine whom the magic practitioners fear.Doctor Occult takes Tim to a magical land full of dangers at every step.
Harry and Timothy can both give nods to young Arthur Pendragon.Book I: The Invisible LabyrinthIllustrated by John Bolton, The Invisible Labyrinth introduces Timothy Hunter and the characters who will help him on his journey to decide between magic or the non-magical world.
Timothy here learns the importance of knowing the laws of the different magical worlds and the dangers of not following them.Book IV: The Road to NowhereThe final book, illustrated by Paul Johnson takes Timothy to the end of time.
It's also unfortunately tiresome.Final thoughtsI enjoyed reading The Books of Magic.
Timothy visits the past, the present, and the future and also the fairylands.This graphic novel takes an interesting look at the history of magic (both in general and in the DC universe), the future of magic, and realms of magic.
The final book which journeys into the future had a very abstract style that was my least favorite of the bunch, but still matched the story very well.I will be honest in saying that a lot of the DC comic references were lost on me since I haven’t read a ton in this universe.
I still really enjoyed the story of Timothy exploring all these different avenues of magic and learning about them.
I've always thought that this book's main strength was as a magical tour of the DC universe — Neil Gaiman's take on Marv Wolfman's History of the DC Universe.
And, it's rather magnificent in that regard, recording everything from Arion to the Legion.But, it's also a great building block of the Vertigo Universe.
magic.And there's drop dead gorgeous art — with the third issue again being my favorite, thanks to Charles Vess.This is a great book for (1) fans of classic DC; (2) fans of classic Vertigo; and (3) fans of the Books of Magic comic that followed.
The artwork in this is SO beautiful - for that alone I would recommend people read this!The story follows Timothy Hunter and his discovery of magic, through a 'magical mystery tour' as John Constantine so aptly puts it.
If he chooses magic, he could become the greatest magician of his Age.This is the second graphic novel by Neil Gaiman that I have read, and I am really loving the storylines he comes up with - really looking forward to getting my mitts on some more!
It it both thoughtful in places and also humorous, and with yet another appearance of Death, I think I will have to be adding her graphic novel to my to-read list, as she is pretty cool!
I first remember encountering The Books of Magic sometime in the mid-'90s, when I was just starting high school.
Ordering a new edition of Books of Magic?
At the age of 12, Timothy doesn't believe in magic.
In theory, Timothy will have a choice as to whether or not magic will be a part of his life, but it's fairly clear that he may not have nearly as much control over the matter as he'd like to believe.Fantastic artwork, coupled with Gaiman's inimitable prose, makes for exceptionally good comic reading.
"The Books of Magic" is a story in three parts about a twelve year old Tim Hunter who must make a choice to join the magic realm and become the most powerful mage of this age.
The Neil Gaiman-y touch is that this graphic novel collection ends at the beginning of Tim's story.
In a way, these three comics feel as if they were setting up a series that never made it, but Neil provides enough that I didn't feel unsatisfied with the end twist.
If you enjoy classic allusions to faery, DC's Occult League, and old fashioned story telling, I definitely suggest picking this up!
Claramente a melhor da terceira série da Col. Novela Gráfica, instantaneamente a par do Mort Cinder (primeira série) como título favorito lançado até agora nesta excelente parceria do Público, que merecia maior adesão (os jornais precisam cada vez mais disto para saírem das bancas).O Timothy Hunter até parece o Harry Potter, podia ser um ponto de partida para os fans lerem a sua primeira obra de literatura.
Conhecerem um mundo novo (ou, neste caso, quatro, pelo menos), como o Tim. Conhecerem a trupe da Gabardine, vampiros e lobisomens (piada óbvia).
Mister E.P.S. A versão em língua inglesa tem piadas bónus, que escapam à tradução para português.
