https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/66358.Men_of_Mathematics
Ово посљедње је гдје се књига разилази са највећим бројем научнопопуларних књига којих сам имао прилику да се прихватим - наиме, иако је скоро све објашњено тако да и нематематичари могу да разумију (под условом да имају барем солидно средњошколско знање математике и да нису баш тотални дудуци за логику), Бел се уопште не устручава да вам у лице саспе разноразне формуле и цртеже, па ћете се тако овде нагледати бесконачних низова, редова, полинома, алгебарских структура, комплексних бројева и сличних звијери од којих (ако се не бавите математиком) неке можда нисте ни срели, а већину сте упознали у средњој школи и онда са одушевљењем заборавили при изласку из исте.
It made the subject of maths and the mathematicians come to life.
Maths class at school was not as boring as it used to be, after realizing that Archimedes and Newton were real, flesh-and-blood men.Then I read the book again, while at engineering college.
After this second reading, I felt more than a little love for the subject of maths, when I learned about the interesting lives that the mathematicians had led, and the often curious ways in which they had created the mathematics that we now took so much for granted.
The main intent here is biographical rather than mathematical. But this isn't a very good account. He doesn't distinguish between facts and anecdotes and the author always lets his prejudices get in the way of narrative. I guess it just reflects the times in which it was written. The parts i liked the most of this book were the mathematical parts.
A must read for anybody interested in the life of Mathematicians, the history of Math, or Math itself. The author has managed to make a seemingly dull subject lively and fun to read. Highly recommended.
It may make you look at your own life with a hint of having already wasted it.- others did terrible in traditional systems - like Poincaré, who nearly failed the mathematical parts of his Bachelor's degree and was only admitted because of his previous mathematical importance- funding of science changed a lot with the French revolution - before that, good mathematicians got their money from benevolent rulers, after that, they either had to give lessons or were (sometimes poorly) employed by universities- transfinite numbers are weird- and much more, it's a long bookThe biggest drawback, and here the book shows its age, is the very dry style of the mathematical parts, maybe I'm too spoiled by pop-science writing, maybe it's the age.
These definitely take their time if you want to read them properly.But then again, to quote the author (on a different occasion):The choice of such phraseology is not merely stereotyped pedantry.
Bell, most likely inadvertently, gives a sense that, if one is not going to be a first-rate, world-class mathematician, then they should not bother taking up the art.On the other hand, Bell's enthusiasm for mathematics is infectious.
So long as you take some of the historical accounts with a grain of salt, Men of Mathematics will be a pleasure to read, even for the non-mathematician.
So in that sense, Bell is actually being modest.My final qualm with it is that it doesn't really capture the collaborative spirit that is even more pronounced in modern mathematics.
In this sense Men of Mathematics is outdated, and perhaps a tad too romantic for my taste.
A book about the lives and contributions of the greatest mathematicians up to early 19th century; the book starts with some .
But mostly the book is about the mathematician and his work.
Before I started the book, I wanted to know the common denominator across these great minds.
To prove the greatness of a mathematician, his works have to be explained.
I didn't understood many mathematical proofs, but still was able to appreciate the contribution of the mathematician.I have been reading this book on and off for more than a year.
When I was younger, I liked this book a lot. Later, however, it is easy to notice that there are several great mathematicians who are curiously omitted simply because they were female, and that some of the biographies have a few liberties taken with them to be more dramatic. As another reviewer said, this is a product of the times in which it was written. Still, a readable overview of the sometimes overly dramatic lives of the greatest male contributors to mathematics, but by now there are many more accurate and complete texts on the history of mathematics.
E.T. Bell is by no means unbiased, but he doesn't ever claim to be. His writing reflects his captivating wit and seemingly endless knowledge; it is anyone's pleasure to read.
What strikes out for me is that Bell tries to portray these men as gods; outworldly people capable of doing inhuman tasks.
But I loved reading about the little stories behind these men's lives.
Because let's face it, people reading this book have a vested interest in Mathematics and know most of the men discussed in the book.
We were looking for stories about these men and not an explanation of the math they did, an explanation, which in my opinion.
I should rate it 3.5 but since the author did the arduous task of combining so many eras of Mathematics, I'll be generous in the rounding-off.
I can see why this book inspired Freeman Dyson. The book contains bio-sketches of more than 27 mathematicians, arranged chronologically in 29 chapters. The book starts with Zeno of Elea (ca. 490 - 430 BC) and ends with George Cantor (1845 - 1918). It successfully compiles the lives of the 27 great mathematicians, depicting interesting aspects of their lives. An outstanding book by a great mathematician. Highly recommended!!
slow going, but fascinating, because he describes how mathematics has evolved over time, and you get some idea of how remarkable these discoveries were. Starts with Pythagoras. I I'm as far as Newton now. Some math, but not a lot. Very opinionated writer, which really comes through when he is discussing mathematicians who also were theologians, like pascal and Newton. He has no time whatever for those endeavors.
As history, this book should be taken with some salt. As a book about mathematical characters and the character of mathematics, though, I think Men of Mathematics is hard to beat. I first read this when I was in middle school or high school, and while it wasn't the only thing that got me into mathematics, it was certainly an influence.
This is one of the ones I keep on my shelf for easy access rather than in a box in the closet. Each chapter is a self-contained bio with personal info, the mathematician's place in history, and life in the context of his/her times. Laid back, not like other scientific bios that can be annoyingly stuffy. One of my favs. Just now finding out there's a part 2. Hot damn!
Mathematics has evolved over centuries. It is unlike any other branch of science where someone proposes a theory and years later it is proved wrong. When something is accepted in mathematics, it is forever in there. This book provides an insight into the lives of those great mathematicians who have shown the world new ways and opened new dimensions in various fields of mathematics.
it very good
A wonderful biography, however a little bit old, it is not with Ramanujan, Von Neumann, Hilbert, Godel...I can get some new ideas.
Extremely biased against protestants. Author seems to be an angry Catholic.
As the subtitle of his quasi-historical work states, Bell looks at “the lives and achievements of the great mathematicians from Zeno to Poincare.” He wrote the book in 1937 and it was posthumously reprinted in 1965, the version I enjoyed reading.
In fact, some historians postulate that if the Greeks took their cue from Archimedes instead of Euclid, Plato, and Aristotle, they might have advanced the era of modern mathematics of Newton and physical science of Galileo during the 17th century by 2,000 years.Modern mathematics began with two great advances - analytic geometry in 1637 with Rene Descartes (1596-1650) and calculus with Sir Isaac Newton (1642-1727) and Gottfried Leibniz (1646-1716) around 1666.
It must be difficult to write biographies of mathematicians.
But this is so only because mathematics does not attempt to draw absolute conclusions.
Denis Diderot was trying to convert to atheism, and Catherine commissioned Euler to silence him, knowing how uncomfortable Diderot was with math.
Humiliated by the unrestrained laughter which greeted his embarrassed silence, the poor man asked Catherine’s permission to return at once to France.” (147)Euler calculated the complex mathematics of lunar motion entirely in his head.
Don't let the introduction of this book fool you!
While the front-matter is enticing and exciting, the rest of the book fails to live up to these expectations.
This book manages to make an exciting topic boring and hard to suffer through via a combination of flowery, say-nothing prose and a focus on the people rather than the math.OK, I get it -- for the most part, readers do want people stories over math, but those are not the people who are going to be reading this book.

It's impossible to know how accurate his facts are, but E.T. Bell's vivid, curmudgeonly and wonderfully coherent telling of a few dozen life stories is too entertaining for an amateur math geek like me not to love. Take it with a grain of salt, I suppose, but it's one of my favorite story books.
Delve into not only mathematics but into the history of those who were geniuses of their time and brought all of us the wonders that can be found in numbers.
The most obnoxious writing style ever.
Just as good as I remembered it. I like that when in doubt he tells us the anecdote even if there are no proofs. I want Evariste Galois to have led exactly the life that Bell gives us.
Great idea, but stories are mixed with personal opinions of author. I did not like the writing style at all.
Gives some history of the mathematician's lives and times along with their most cherished works.
I would have to check again to make sure.Anyway, quite interesting for a novice mathematician or a person into the history of mathematics.
I honestly don't know who else would be interested in this book.On the second reading:Men of Mathematics by E.
T. Bell is a fascinating account of both the lives and the achievements of the greatest mathematicians in history.
Some of the chapters include more than one mathematician, but most of them are devoted to only one.
For instance, the second chapter talks about three Greek mathematicians; Zeno, Eudoxus, and Archimedes.
While it is true that most of modern mathematics was discovered by European men *cough* imperialism *cough*, there were some people of color and women who some important work.
Ideas like including women on the merit of their accomplishments weren’t invented yet.Aside from the imperialist and sexist attitude of the author, it was quite enjoyable!
There are 23 chapters (intro + 22 mathematicians) from Zeno to Descartes to Gauss to Eisenstein to…if you’re bored already this book is not for you.
I sincerely doubt that if you don't care about mathematics that you will like this book, but if you do it's a must read.
There's humor, interesting personal details and insight contained in Bell's book.
Bell has a strong point of view and his language is precise.
The math is described in a wonderfully succinct way.
I'm sure the book is dated in ways that a non-Ph.D. math type like me would never know.
But I doubt that there is a better and more engaging introduction to the history of mathematics and its intellectual evolution.
