https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/5348.The_Testament
What I learned from this book:1) Everyone should have a fully executed will. 2) A poorly written Will is bad estate planning.3) If you have lots of money and hate your family, make them think you are giving them $11 billion and then swap the Will that gives them nothing, and then jump off a building plunging to your death so that they can't do anything but settle with the estate. This is my first Grisham book. And many more to come, I am sure!
The Testament, John Grishamتاریخ نخستین خوانش: دوم ماه اکتبر سال 2000 میلادیعنوان: وصیتنامه؛ نویسنده: جان گریشام؛ مترجم: بهرام افراسیابی ؛ تهران، مجتمع انتشاراتی ایران، 1378، در 437 ص؛ شاب: 9646273165؛ موضوع: داستانهای نویسندگان امریکایی قرن 20 مشروع داستان: من مالک این بنای بلند شیشه ای هستم که اینک در آن نشسته ام؛ نود و هفت درصد از شرکت خانه سازی که در زیر پایم است؛ به همراه زمینهای پیرامون آن به وسعت نیم مایل در نیم مایل و کارکنانی که در آن جا مشغول کارند؛ همه در حیطه ی اختیار من هستند. دو سا
The Testament, John Grishamتاریخ نخستین خوانش: دوم ماه اکتبر سال 2000 میلادیعنوان: وصیتنامه؛ نویسنده: جان گریشام؛ مترجم: بهرام افراسیابی ؛ تهران، مجتمع انتشاراتی ایران، 1378، در 437 ص؛ شاب: 9646273165؛ موضوع: داستانهای نویسندگان امریکایی قرن 20 مشروع داستان: من مالک این بنای بلند شیشه‌ ای هستم که اینک در آن نشسته‌ ام؛ نود و هفت درصد از شرکت خانه‌ سازی که در زیر پایم است؛ به همراه زمین‌های پیرامون آن به وسعت نیم مایل در نیم مایل و کارکنانی که در آن جا مشغول کارند؛ همه در حیطه ی اختیار من هستند.
By the end of the book, it felt like Grisham had tired of the story himself, and just threw something together to be done with it.Think of me what you will, but I don't like missionary work, and it bothers me that the protagonist here is painted saintlike (perhaps that is a poor choice of words) because she chose this occupation in order to hide from the world (the idea of God is just an afterthought).
Even without the let-down of an ending and the overabundance of obnoxious characters, the idea of the missionary as the protagonist in the good-of-heart role would have turned my stomach enough for a poor rating on this book.
I used to be an avid reader of the likes of Grisham, Patterson etc but found myself moving away from secular fiction after I became a Christian.
I remembered that a few of Grisham's novels had moral or Christian principles--The Testament is one of these.
He married three times and was believed to have had six grandchildren whose lives he also ruined by spoiling them with million dollar payouts at intervals.
The author also does a good job in highlighting how an alcoholic will always struggle with the temptation to drink.The author claims to be a Christian and as already noted I have seen these themes in his books at times.
Grisham does a great job of blending the law genre and the adventure genre.
Nate travels to South America to find out more about Rachel Lane, mysterious illegitimate heir to Troy Phelan's 11 billion dollar will.
Out of Troy's 3 marriages, dozen's of children, Rachel Lane gets it all.
Nate travels to Corùmba, Brazil in hopes to find Rachel Lane, a missionary working in the Patanal swamp.
Nate finally leaves to come back to D.C when he contracts Dengue Fever, and almost dies.
Afterwards Nate travels back to Corùmba to get Rachel's signature on the papers.
The book ends on Nate's journey back to the states.
I found myself only reading one chapter, then putting it down.
Then coming back hours later, reading another chapter maybe two, then putting it down again, etc.
An old, reclusive, very rich man who hates everyone commits suicide in the lamest way possible and leaves his fortune to a long lost illegitimate daughter who's a missionary in some far away country, so a lawyer has to find her and give her the money.
And of course, it wouldn't be complete if the lawyer who has to find the Christian woman is a drunken, drug addicted slob whom she helps to find God and he is "reformed" simply because she taught him to say "Forgive me God. Kthnxbai" and your slate is wiped clean.
5 Stars. This is probably one of the best John Grisham books I've read. It's not the usual courtroom/murder drama....just people behaving badly.
Phelan commits suicide by jumping out a window just seconds after writing his Testament, which says the rest of his estate will instead of to his money=grabbing family, to his illegitimate daughter Rachel Lane, who none of Phelan's family or associates know about or have ever seen or met.Now after Phelan's suicide, Josh Stafford calls upon his colleague Nate O'Reilly to find Rachel, who has become a missionary in Brazil, Troy paid her to go to college but disappeared into Medical School and Seminary, and went to Brazil.
This time an eccentric billionaire Troy Phelan(One of my favorite Grisham characters ever) jumps out of a window to his death, after writing a new will, leaving his $11 Billion estate in limbo.Despite being fully engaged by the story, there are a few things I didn't like about the book.
I was very disappointed that the story started out with such a bang and then ended with a whimper.
Once again, Grisham could have used a better editor.
I would recommend it cautiously, only because readers will probably get caught up in the story as I did and want to see where the money ends up.
It was a quite enjoyable read. The Plot: So, this story is about, An American billionaire named Troy Phelan. He's an 80years old man with three divorced wives and six heirs. Troy suffered from his illness so he decided to commit a suicide ( he's kinda crazy man). After his death, all his heirs and his wives wanted to read his will, his testament, (I know you're thinking about all his money and his lucky heirs but you have to read till the end!!) And all his money was left to his Illegitimate Dau
After his death, all his heirs and his wives wanted to read his will, his testament, (I know you're thinking about all his money and his lucky heirs but you have to read till the end!!) And all his money was left to his Illegitimate Daughter (Rachel Lane) I told you he's a crazy man but wise at the same time.Rachel Lane is a missionary of world's tribes, she lives in somewhere in Brazil with the Indians, she knew just a little about her biological father.Troy's lawyer decided to find Rachel and inform her about her father and his will, but he couldn't risk his life in the third world, so he sent his an old friend (Nate O'reily) to find Rachel.Will Nate find Rachel in a middle of nowhere?
I learned it's more important to forget the materialism of this world and be self-less for Christ like the heroine of this book was, than to get caught up in making a name for myself in my short time on earth.
Her other-worldness was in stark contrast to the superficiality and artificiality of family members who showed up the moment they heard of their tycoon relative's death.
I remember the book opened with the old rich father's death and how instantly his corporate office was swamped with relatives shamelessly hoping to cash in, some actually spending excess amounts of their own money before they realized that the old rich man never left them a cent.
This book is a shining light of what is really important in life. We all struggle in some ways. You just need to stay focused on what is really important
So Josh Stafford, Troy's long-time lawyer, dispatches one of his associates, Nate O'Riley, on a mission to find Rachel.Nate is fresh out of drug rehab (his fourth trip), and is coming to terms with the wreck his life has become, with a failed marriage and kids he doesn't stay in touch with, on top of federal charges that jeopardize his law practice and good intentions but little hope of true sobriety and recovery.
He is close to the end of his current rehab stay, but he leaves to go to Brazil.REVIEWER’S OPINION:This is not as powerful as some of the author’s other books, but it’s a fine story.
You’re skinny as a rail.” Nate said “You want to lose fifteen pounds, find the right mosquito.” On another topic, I admired and liked the character Josh - smart, competent, but not perfect.Maybe 40% of the story is lawyers for the grandchildren scheming to get money.
The rest of the story is about Nate with some Rachel.
Tenth in publishing order, THE TESTAMENT, shows an author with no sign of wear and tear.Some guys don't like admitting they cry, but I don't care if others think I'm a wimp for this book making my eyes water.
Stay with me, this one cooks.It starts in first person narrative with crotchety rich old guy, Troy Phelan, describing it detail just how desperately he wants to cut out his despicable family members from his will.
There is power with prayer and faith, and in the final pages tears came down my cheek because this story did what the best of the best stories do: enthralled, enchanted and made me want to be able to read forever.
I'm impressed that I made it through to the end. At first it seemed like a cool idea...guy goes down to jungle and comes out a changed man. Instead it's more about finding God within a malaria-fevered haze. Grisham entering his 'very-preachy' stage.
Another well written book by John Grisham that flows easily and keeps the reader wanting to read more.The book is full of interesting if not nasty characters that are described perfectly by John Grisham. There are a number of sub plots that bring interest and intrigue into the novel. The first 100+ pages were very good but unfortunately the book did lose its way a little after that otherwise I would have rated it even higher.
It wasn't until the window scene that I remembered reading this book before. It contained two parallel story lines about parenting. It is a terrific example of the imagination of Grisham. Some parts were a little tedious. The ending was something the reader anticipates.
All of the three ex-wives and six adult children who had gathered for the signing, minutes after they left the room, were cut out with a new handwritten holographic will, given from Troy to his lawyer.
They are in for a shock when, one month later (after they’ve gone out and spent the money they thought they were getting), they learn that the will they saw him sign was no longer valid; the new will left his 11 billion to his long-lost illegitimate missionary daughter, Rachel, currently living somewhere in Brazil.
My first John Grisham.. Too much details of law suits..Dry at places but still has a wicked humour and something tempting one to finish it.. Not bad.
reviewI am reading The Testament, by John Grisham.It's about a man named Nate who is put in charge o
I prefer Grisham’s hero as a rascally conniver, rather than as a reformed drunk who has found Jesus. Nate, in The Testament, is the latter so the story lacks the edge that glosses many of Grisham’s novels with a saving caustic humor. The sections describing the interior of Brazil and Nate’s journey to find the missing heiress, missionary Rachel, moves like a slow and somewhat boring travelogue, despite the addition of storms, alligators and dengue fever. Grisham’s books often serve me as diversions, but this one was a drag.
Had I not purchased this book I wouldn’t have finished it. The allure of reading about eleven billion-dollar estate was quickly tarnished by the slow, repetitive, boring adventures of a recovering alcoholic who while on a search for the missing illegitimate heir has a religious awakening. There were no twists and turns or unexpected events that I have I come to expect in John Grisham novels.
I was very surprised to cry over this book as I sure did not expect it. Its amazing how he writes about what wicked liars lawyers can be. Everyone knows it but some of them reach new depths of lying in this book. I could hardly put it down for a minute. It kept me up until five am!! I am rapidly becoming a John Grisham fan.
Another nice story that demonstrates John Grisham's growth as a writer of mass-market, popular fiction. Its a nice book to read or listen to on vacation or on a commute. You get exposed to a great number of characters -- many of them unsavory -- and some poignant parts, particularly at the end, leave the reader thinking.
A book based in Brazil? Yes please! This was our book club book this time and I'm glad I read it, even if it didn't end up being my typical kind of book. I enjoyed learning about the Pantanal, and loved the Brazilian characters. The downfall for me was the massive amount of greedy people in the book. I was wondering how this book could possibly end well, and I'm happy to say that it did.
Not sure if it was an okay book or a waste of time. Too long and boring sometimes, fewer times gossipy and intresting. Would not recommend.
Books such as This Is Where I Leave You, tv shows such as The Family, and movies such as August, Osage County flood the market and make me feel more than a little nostalgic for a time when “normal” families were something to be upheld and to strive for.The characters were well developed and Troy Phelan and his heirs definitely inspired feelings of intense dislike.
It Although the heirs were amusing, they didn’t have a whole lot of bearing on the outcome of the case and they were just annoying nuisances after a point.Personally, you’d be better off reading one of Grisham’s better books, such as The Firm, A Time to Kill, or The Rainmaker.
Actually I do remember reading this one, but somehow never entered it. I'm leaving the stars blank here, because although I remember it, I don't remember it well enough to rate it. It seems to me that the bad guys got what was coming to them -- of course -- it's an earlyish Grisham, so not like some of his later, lesserly gets-what-coming works.I'm just guessing at the date I read it.
Wonderful,wonderful,wonderful!My favourite Grisham to date!!!Shady beginning-glorious ending!
