https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/236777.The_Metaphysical_Poets
Actually, I've already read this. But a good poetry anthology is gold, and worth returning to again and again (as I'm doing now). Gardner did a great job with the selections. Donne, Herbert, Vaughn, but also poets that have been long forgotten.
Recommended Metaphysical Poets (that you can find in this book): John Donne: "A Valediction: Forbidding Mourning" & "The Ecstasy" (2 of my top 10 favorite poems), "The Good-Morrow," "The Bait," and "The Flea" (which is hilarious and weird)(John Donne reads alternately like the most romantic, insightful and passionate man that ever lived, and a horndog--but either way he's one fucking smart dude.)Sir Thomas Wyatt: "Whoso List to Hunt" (another top 10 poem, a play off of one of Petrarch's poems), "My Lute Awake," "Madame, Withouten Many Words," "The Flee From Me (That Sometime Did Me Seek)"
The project is a little different from that of Donne or Marvell or any or the others mentioned above, but its sense of another world is perhaps even more precisely aimed at the reasons why I read literature.
Put too much into a symbol, and it pops right out of the page and becomes a THING.Here, Traherne isn't just wondering about the unknown, he's charting it, building it: dreaming of a world that twins ours but goes on of its own accord, full of all the adventures and undiscovered countries and perhaps even little quotidian victories and defeats that mark our own.
And all this written in a tedious, self-important way that probably was normal, even clever for the time but this is not their time.One or two of the poems didn't completely suck (one or two out of over a hundred).
Lol poor Gardner if this was what she worked with all the time (there were probably few choices for women who wanted to do academic work in her time).
They are the ones who have shown us the right path to practical and truly beneficial spirituality!
Gardner's selection is terrific and her introduction is too. I'd read a lot of this stuff years ago in college, of course, but it was nice to revisit it. Donne is fine and all, but let's hear it for George Herbert and Thomas Traherne. The latter's prose isn't included here but it's worth the time and at least as poetic as anything contained in this volume.
This is a brilliant selection of metaphysical poems, with generous selections of John Donne, George Herbert, Andrew Marvell and Henry Vaughan alongside other poets many of whose poems are less familiar today.
I have loved the book ever since my teens, and fifty years on it is still one of my favourite anthologies.
The metaphysical poets have been a huge influence on 20th century English poetry, and it seems amazing that for a long time they were largely neglected.
Much of their work calls for a degree of concentration, but the effort is well repaid.
I cannot recommend the book too highly.
Notable for including a lot of obscure--but definitely Metaphysical!--selections. Otherwise, the readings, though competent, alternate between whispers and shouts, are often very hard not only to hear but to understand because of thick Brit accents, and as titles and authors are never announced, require constant reference to the table of contents.
I love poetry and this delightful collection has entertained me.
I am glad the editor / compiler didn't include the longer poems though because it meant I could just pick up the book, flip to a poem and read it between other things I was doing.
Some of the poems are quite challenging (both in language and meaning) but that was the intent of many of the poets included in the compilation.
I think they didn't want poetry to be available to the masses - but rather to the educated classes.
I recommend this book to anyone wanting to plunge into some old fashioned poetry.
The first book of poetry I have ever read. Actually, I cheated a bit and skipped over a lot of the poems.The three stars is for overall impression but some of the religious poems are really breath-taking. Worth the price of the book just for those poems.
a collection of 16th to 18th century English Metaphysical Poets. I return to it often.
A goodly selection of the best of the metaphysical Poets. An excellent introduction to these poetical mind benders...
"Go catch a falling star or get with child a mandrake root..." What more can one say. John Donne particularly!
Surely the most innovative group of poets, in the English language, until the Modernists and Post-Modernists of 20th Century.
I used to love the Metaphysical poets, but much of this collection I found very difficult to understand. Maybe it's an age thing.
I gotta admit - i love Donne, but reading this was a lot like work. Like eating your oatmeal - good for you, but you'd rather have a beer.
Donne, Marvell, etc. Among the greatest poets after Shakespeare.
This was a school book. I still love it and read it often. What is there not to love? Especially Donne.
Beautiful collection from own of the most personal lyrical movements any countr ever had.
Zero Stars. NEW AGE GARBAGE. FIND JESUS <3
In addition to the terrific selection, there is a very perceptive introduction by Helen Gardner with one of the most enlightening and well-written discussions of the metaphysical conceit.
Did every high school student have to study this? Surely they could have some new ideas by now for poetry to study...
now thats what i call an anthology vol. 1
