https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/338749.The_Ginger_Tree
This is a story of a young Scottish woman, Mary MacKenzie, who moves to China to get married in the early 1900s.
The writing was very affectless which made me feel very distant from Mary and unengaged in her story.
Several times I felt like putting down this book, but thought that it must get more interesting once we got to WW1 and WW11.
The one good thing about this book is that I learned something about what it was like for European women to live in China and Japan in the early 1900s.2 1/2 stars.
What is delivered is not a touristic description but the undercurrent of life in these places at a given time.And thirdly the author's portrayal of the Japanese is stupendous.Through page 228:I LOVE, LOVE, LOVE the book.
Through page 57: It is so funny - you start another book and the way different author write hits you smack in the face.
If you have read a bit of the reviews for this book then you know that the main character, Mary Mackenzie, leaves Scotland to travel to Peking, China, in the year 1903 to marry her fiancé, Richard Collingsworth, a British attaché posted in Peking.
This is a slow-burning historical novel that follows Scottish Mary Mackenzie from 1903 when she is sailing half way round the world to marry Richard, a military attaché stationed in China, to 1941 when she is finally sailing back, evacuated from the Far East in the Second World War, having made some choices and gone through some life events that the young Mary of the opening chapters would never have foreseen.
I found the first 100 pages slow going as there wasn’t much that hooked me emotionally.
Just arrived from USA trough BM.This is the story of a Scotswoman Mary MacKenzie who starts her saga by sailing in 1903 in order to get married to a military attache in Peking. However, she falls in love with a young Japanese nobleman and her adulterous case is very criticized by the British community in Peking. If you really want to know what happens next, you MUST read this book which is written as letters to her mother in Scotland.
This has been sitting on my shelf waiting to be read for more than 10 years.
I was attracted to it by the recommendations of others but put off by the fact that it is told in journal entries and some letters, which is generally not my favorite way to convey a story.
It's been a long time since I've read a book that kept calling me to sit down and read every moment but this one did just that.It is the story of Mary Mckenzie who leaves Scotland in 1903 to marry a military attache in Peking, China.

He pulls much from his own background: His parents were from Scotland -the main protagonist, Mary Mackenzie; the author was born in 1913 in the foreigner's quarter of Tokoyo, Japan in 1913 while his father was working as a baptist missionary and spent most of his life in Japan--his protagonist spent most of her adult life in Japan and felt like it was her home.
I told her what I been thinking about and she said something I will always remember; 'Child, you are traveling towards the lands of sudden death.' She told me about a huge flood in China near a place called Wuhan in which some say as many as two and a half million people drowned, which is half of all the people in Scotland.
Things of course started to change in Japan after the war, but prior to that very little changed.The story is narrated by way of a diary and letters by a young Scottish woman, Mary Mackenzie, who is sailing out to China to marry an army man she has decided to marry to get away from Scotland and the unexciting life she has there.
So the story is relatively trite, and the characters are fairly predictable, but the best thing about the book is the insight we get into pre-war Chinese and Japan society and how Europeans fitted in or didn't.
This is the kind of book that unfolds like a delectable seven-course meal.
What I love about this book is how it shows opportunities and decisions conspire to shape one's life, but outside forces will intrude.
We are never truly in control of our own lives.
Natural disasters, political forces, and people we randomly meet will change our lives for good and bad.
The plot of this book is 100% credible, and the end is touching without being sentimental.
It hits all the major themes: love, loss, war, and betrayal.
This is the most satisfying book I've read since Laurens van der Post's "A Story Like the Wind."
Written in 1977, it was possible that some of the early 20th century foresight of Mary about Eastern progress may have been coloured by the hindsight of the author!The author, a fascinating character wrote this book on the basis of his understanding of Japanese language and culture, his experiences as a child of missionary parents, and his subsequent experience as a prisoner of war.
Given that the author was in a Japanese prisoner of war camp, and he vowed never to go back to Japan, why was the book so sympathetic to Japanese culture?
The joy of participating in a book club is that you are often introduced to a book you would not find on your own, and that was precisely the case with this 1977 novel.Written as the first-person account of a young woman travelling to Asia in 1903 to marry a Scottish military attaché, I was totally captivated by her story from the first page.
But, I was totally entranced by the forty year journey we travel with this woman and her pragmatic and stoic approach to her life with virtually no family or support system to sustain her.
Am I the only guy who has read this book?
If I arrive early, I wait and read a book.
I didn't notice until I had arrived at the school that it was not one of my books, but one of my wife's instead.
When I told her what I was reading she said; 'You're not going to like that one'.
She said that since I usually read a lot of 'guy' type books.
A very cinematic book as well.
Anyone reading this book should then give it to their boyfriend or husband to read, they just might like it too.
Set in China and Japan, spanning the period from 1903 to the outbreak of WW2, The Ginger Tree tells the story of young Scottish woman, Mary Mackenzie, who travels to China to marry, then through circumstance is forced to survive alone in an alien East.
At times, through 21st century eyes, I found it difficult to understand decisions taken my Mary, but be in no doubt she is a character ahead of her time - a woman unafraid to flout convention, quietly carving her own path in a world dominated by men.
This is a beautifully written novel which offers the reader a glimpse into everyday life in Japan during a period when most eyes were focused on the broader world stage.

Beside that I've bought this book for the setting, of course, but because, for once, I'd have liked to read a good romance but I was disappointed, there is almost no romance, the character have not been developed enough on this part, not to mention Wynd's habit to only mention events that are important for the plot without further writing about them.
Which has been very disappointing for me.So, recommended for the detailed settings and the sincere description of another country's mentality, not recommended for characters development and romance.
Thank you Bernadette for recommending this book last year. I finally got around to reading it and I am so glad that I did. It's been a while since I have been able to get lost in a book with a fascinating subject and a wonderful character who had to endure so much just to survive. It brought back Japan to me and all that Mary MacKenzie went through was just the icing on the cake for me. I can't recommend this book enough. It would be an outstanding choice for a bookclub. Thanks again Bernadette.
There are some great moments in this, and I love the world it evokes. The prose is often denser than I prefer though, and I think it would have been more enjoyable if that had been thinned a bit in some spots. I think it does the Forest Gump moments of history thing too, which comes off as a gimmick where that occurs. On the whole very nicely done though. I enjoyed reading.
J ai adore ce livre.!!!
The main character is Mary, who in 1903 leaves her home in Scotland to sail for China where she will marry her fiancé, who is there with the diplomatic corps.
In the first year, she has a child, is unhappy and (this is not a spoiler because this info is printed on the back of the book) begins an illicit affair with a Japanese general.
The story takes place during a volatile time for China and Japan.
I very much enjoyed this story of a young woman named Mary who makes her way through the world; although it was very, very sad.
And it was also a book.She finds her way out of that life and into another, equally unpleasant one, in Japan, but at a cost.
Mary recognizes this and her life picks up.
It is because of that that Mary has such a unique vision for her life and such drive despite all that has happened to her; it is also this that drives her fate.What made this book even more appealing for me was that the author was a Japanese prisoner of war for three years.
Japan and Japanese she dislikes, together with "Japanophiles" - it was a bit refreshing after other Western books which pretty much idolize the culture, but even this dislike was dry and without passion and therefore not that interesting to read about.And there were quite a few lapses for someone who was born and lived in Japan.
This well-researched epistolary novel by Oswald Wynd follows a young Scotchwoman’s (Mary MacKenzie) journey to China at the start of the twentieth-century.
I enjoyed the book’s relatively unusual examination of a woman’s position in colonial high society and her ‘insights’ into the culture of China and Japan at this time.
Alas I never really felt very engaged by Mary herself begins as a naïve air head who eventually heaps misfortune on herself through terrible choices and becomes a masochist desperate for punishment.
The constant historical sign-positing within her diaries and letters eventually becomes hilarious.
And disaster ensues.(view spoiler)[After bearing a daughter, Mary becomes bored with marriage and motherhood, and at her earliest convenience -- when Richard is away on assignment -- she has a short-lived affair with a married Japanese aristocrat/military leader and becomes pregnant by him.
Before she can board the European-bound transport ship that Richard has booked her onto, Mary is whisked away to Japan, where she bears Count Kurihama a son, whom she names Tomo.
I came across this book when my on-line book club was looking for Japanese fiction for our monthly read.
It is a lovely tale describing a young woman's journey from Europe to the Far East at the beginning of the 20th century.
Based on the author's family papers, and very well written, this tale is told in the form of letters and diary entries.
The details of the culture at the time are fascinating and I found myself caring about the main character from the beginning.
An easy weekend read that peaks into a culture and encourages me to seek out more of this genre.
I initially thought this book a bit stuffy however I quickly became absorbed in the story and the historical events of the early 20th century.
I felt the diary entries allowed the reader an intimate picture of Mary's changing feelings towards love, marriage, family, friendships and belonging.
These entries give a very strong feeling of Mary's emotionally prohibitive upbringing and at the end I found myself shedding the tears she repressed during the trials she suffered.
I thought this book would adapt well to a screenplay.
This is a gripping and original novel about a young Scottish woman who travels to China to meet her fiancé Richard in the early 20th century.
Mary McKenzie grows from a naive young girl on board ship to a competent businesswoman in Japan years later.
Reminiscent of Memoirs of a Geisha, this book includes a wealth of detail about life in China and Japan.
Separated from her children by her husband and father of her son respectively, Mary becomes an independent and confident woman who survives on her terms in countries that were alien to her younger self and worlds away from her genteel upbringing in Scotland.
I would rate this book more highly but there was just something lacking about it. Soul, perhaps. It felt a little stiff to me, which perhaps is appropriate, given the refined societies of its characters. But I did really enjoy the book. I read it in the week after I started my maternity leave but before the baby came. So I have very sweet memories attached to it. I also love historical fiction.
A Scottish woman married to an English officer in China, has an affair with a Japanese nobleman with dire consequences. I thought the relationship between Mary collingsworth and count Kentaro Kurihama somewhat contrived. I did find Mary's life in Japan as a foreigner and outcast fascinating. Not a page turner but interesting.
I found this slow-going at times. I also found Mary MacKenzie a little aloof and I don't think the author intended that. She was quite risque for her day and for the setting in Japan. I didn't get the sense that she mourned the loss of her children at all. Maybe it was that Scottish stoicism. She didn't strike me as cold so much as just kind of blank.
I did enjoy this story. I found it impossible to predict what would happen next - so many twists and turns - and this kept up my interest and enjoyment. I learnt a lot about a culture and a time that I knew very little about.
