https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/105992.Helter_Skelter
***DISCLAIMER: I READ THIS BOOK UNDER THE CONSTANT INFLUENCE OF THE WHITE ALBUM BY THE BEATLES.*** Hello Charlie! You crazy F (expletive has been deleted because for some crazy reason I’ve got a bunch of kids following my reviews) R!!!”’How are you going to get the establishment? You can’t sing to them. I tried that. I tried to save them, but they wouldn’t listen. Now we got to destroy them.”’---Charlie Manson to a friend in the summer of 1969The number of people killed by the Manson family in t
Now we got to destroy them.”’---Charlie Manson to a friend in the summer of 1969The number of people killed by the Manson family in the 1960s and 1970s could be as many as 35.
For the prosecutor, Vincent Bugliosi, the goal was to get Charlie Manson, along with his most fervent followers, out of circulation for a long, long time.
He wasn’t book smart, but he had his own brilliant way of discovering the weaknesses of most people he met and turning them into brainwashed zombie followers.
People have made comparisons between the mesmerizing abilities of Adolf Hitler and Charlie Manson.
On the afternoon of Friday, August 8, 1969, Manson told the Family: “Now is the time for Helter Skelter.”   {This is probably the darkest review I've ever written. Beware, ye of little courage.}Gaze upon this gif. So innocent, so sweet. There is nothing sinister about it. Right? Well, guess again. The carefree girls in this gif are members of the Manson family singing and laughing as they entered the courtroom. Who knew a murder trial could make someone so happy? But let’s go back a bit.Crazy
Those selected were Tex Watson, Susan Atkins, Linda Kasabian and Patricia Krenwinkel.
The unfortunate victims were Sharon Tate, Jay Sebring, Wojciech Frykowski, Steven Parent and Coffee heiress Abigail Folger.
The Manson family was convicted of 9 murders.
Does that mean Tex Watson, Susan Atkins, Linda Kasabian and Patricia Krenwinkel were actually victims themselves?
Manson, Watson, Krenwinkel, Van Houten and Atkins were sentenced to death, but the sentence was modified in 1977 to life in prison with the possibility of parole after California abolished the death penalty.
Watson, Krenwinkel, Van Houten and Manson remain in prison to this day.
It even sounds like Manson was more impressed with Bugliosi than his own defense attorneys!Now, a caveat here – if you like your true crime to be more of a retelling and less of a deep dive into the details or if you prefer a lighter/abridged story (something that might fit into an hour long show on the Investigation Discovery Channel), then this may not be the book for you.
Virginia asked her, "Well, did you do it?"Susan looked at her and smiled and said, "Sure." Just like that.
"You know who did it, don't you?""No.""Well, you're looking at her."Virginia gasped, "You've got to be kidding!"Susan just smiled and said, "Huh-uh."She asked the big question first: Why, Sadie, why?
The book tells in detail about the day the people were found, all of the records that could be told, how they found the freaks and arrested them, how things were done to different people.
No apparent motive could be found.The following night of August 10,1969 two more victims were found at 3301 Waverly Drive, both brutally slaughtered.
Despite the obvious similarities in these crimes it would be months before the LAPD acknowledged there was a connection.On November 18, 1969 Vincent Bugliosi, age thirty-five was handed the job of prosecuting the perpetrators of  the slayings at Cielo and Waverly Drive.During the course of his investigation and preparation for the trial  Vincent Bugliosi came to believe that Charles Manson was as responsible for the killings as the people who had actually done the slaying.
“My father is the jailhouse. My father is your system…I am only what you made me. I am only a reflection of you.”- Testimony of Charles Manson, November 20, 1970 (given outside the presence of the jury)When I started Helter Skelter, it did not have an ending; by the time I finished, by an odd quirk of timing, it did. On November 19, 2017, with about a hundred pages left in my paperback chronicle of his infamous deeds, Charles Manson – cult leader, convicted murderer, synonym of charismatic depra
I am only a reflection of you.”-	Testimony of Charles Manson, November 20, 1970 (given outside the presence of the jury)When I started Helter Skelter, it did not have an ending; by the time I finished, by an odd quirk of timing, it did.
Part of the reason is Helter Skelter, written by Manson prosecutor Vincent Bugliosi, with help from Curt Gentry.
You don’t read any dissenting views in Helter Skelter; instead, Bugliosi & Gentry tell the story from Bugliosi’s point-of-view, discounting even the possibility that there might be any other worth noting.
My high school US history class textbook was Bloodletters and Badmen: A Narrative Encyclopedia of American Criminals from the Pilgrims to the Present.
I also attribute this one course for my insatiable desire to read crime novels - fiction or non.
For our final grade we had to read Helter Skelter: The True Story of the Manson Murders by Vincent Bugliosi.
It's banned in many high schools now but we were, hmmmm, tougher back them.
Bugliosi was the Deputy DA in charge of prosecuting the Manson clan for the Tate murders.
The Book of Books about one of the most shocking crimes ever committed.
Written in simple, clear, almost surgical language, it demands the reader's full attention and leads us right into the hell of one of the most evil minds to have walked this Earth, the mind of Charles Manson.Although everyone knows the particulars of the massacres committed by the Family, the lack of remorse, the sheer power of all the brain-washing done to the Girls of Manson's sect never fails to shock me and amaze me.
Exciting news - we're joining the Manson Family!Today is a very big day for all of us at P Bryant Reviews Inc. As you may have seen on our blog, we are joining the Manson family.
I wanted to take this opportunity to say that we always appreciate your feedback here at P Bryant Reviews.
Partnering with the Manson Family will help us focus on making our reviews an even better experience for readers.
Our new parent company chairman has issued a press release from Corcoran State Prison welcoming P Bryant Reviews Inc into his family.
I had no idea that so many people were murdered or how batshit crazy and evil the Family was.Charles Manson was not only an evil, little man but was extremely manipulative and cunning.
No, it’s not.Helter Skelter is not light reading nor does it lack in details.
There are so many details in the investigation and trial.I just took my time with the book.
Know this going in if you decide to read this book.I still enjoyed all of the investigation details and the prosecution’s case against Manson and the Family.
Yet in another, it was hard to listen to the horrifying details of the crimes and the twisted philosophy of Charles Manson.
I don't think there is a better way to describe this book written from the viewpoint of D.A Vincent Bugliosi who headed up the legal team during the trial.
Yeah, I am definitely strange!The book begins with the murders, then the investigation, no surprise that there are criticisms towards police officers, then there are the interviews, the backgrounds, the grand jury, the trial, the sentencing and finally in my Audiobook Bugliosi's reflection in 1994 about the continued appeal for the Manson family or more particularly it's creator, Charles Manson.
Charles Manson and "his family" reigned terror throughout an affluent LA community back in 1969 after the brutal mass murder of more than seven people....an unforgettable time if you grew up in the sixties. Prosecuting Attorney, Vincent Bugliosi gives the reader a technically detailed and vividly descriptive account of the true-crime murder trial, and the motivation (view spoiler)[ (to instill fear in the establishment and cause paranoia) (hide spoiler)] behind the mind of a killer.And while all
Prosecuting Attorney, Vincent Bugliosi gives the reader a technically detailed and vividly descriptive account of the true-crime murder trial, and the motivation (view spoiler)[ (to instill fear in the establishment and cause paranoia)
(hide spoiler)] behind the mind of a killer.And while all the murders were certainly atrocious and unforgivable, what the bloodthirsty animalistic Susan Atkins did, not only to an eight and a half month pregnant Sharon Tate, but the disgusting act thrust upon her own baby made me sick!
Vincent Bugliosi: August 18, 1934 - June 6, 1015.....A Brilliant and Brave Man!
(Thank you GR friend Susan for information regarding "Aquarius", a TV series on the Manson murders now showing On Demand)
A classic in the true crime genre, this is a fascinating account of the Charles Manson family and the murders they committed in the summer of 1969.
Bugliosi also shares his perspective on the case, which was interesting.
Charles Manson's crimes were so heinous that I was revolted trying to find the words.
My apologies, but if you want a recap of his evils, you'll have to look elsewhere.This was my first time reading this book, and I picked it up as preparation for the novel The Girls by Emma Cline, which was inspired by the Manson family.
When questioned about it, Reznor claimed that his real estate agent had failed to tell him that the house had been the site of the Manson murderers, but that smacks of dishonesty to me...especially because Reznor collaborated with Marilyn Manson on projects at that time, and shortly thereafter Marilyn Manson recorded "Portrait of an American Family" at the Tate residence as well!
It's also sickening that despite his ludicrous, paranoid philosophy and blatant hatred for African Americans that Charles Manson is still widely regarded by young people in the United States and the UK as some kind of pop hero--or at least he was in the early 90s, as Bugliosi demonstrated through various examples.
I don’t understand the continued appeal of Charles Manson or his family, but I do understand the appeal of this book. It leads through the events as they are placed back together by the prosecution during the trial of Manson and his accomplices, and does so in an interesting way. Helter Skelter reads fast and kept my attention until the defendants are sentenced. At that point, I felt I knew everything I needed to know about Manson — he was a delusional racist who preyed on weak and needy souls and believed the Beatles music was created for him.
This is the best true crime book I've read so far.
Better than In Cold Blood and more exciting than The Devil in the White City (in my opinion).It's hard not to find references to Charles Manson in popular culture, especially on screen (hello American Horror Story: Cult), so I had a general knowledge of the crime before I began.
Vincent Bugliosi is prime to tell this story as he was the prosecutor charged with presenting the evidence of the Manson murders, laying out the facts objectively.
I challenge you to read this book, and NOT listen to The White Album.
Manson referred to himself as "MAN SON" and Jesus Christ, and it's impossible to ignore how much the two had in common.Both were revolutionaries warning of change and an imminent Armageddon.
Similar results, as well: a hard-core following of people who are willing to kill and be murdered for their leader, and dedicate their lives to carry out their leader's message.
But if you don't believe in his miracles, the fact that people followed him so devoutly is even more notable.) I think in order to gain control like Christ, Charles Manson and Hitler had, the stars really have to align.
If you're interested in the Manson family or True Crime you need to read this.
I'm very interested in cults, true crime stories and deeply disturbed killers but I rarely read books on those subjects because it's very hard to find a good book.
Learning about Manson, his followers, their way of life, their philosophy and the psychology and reasoning behind it all was enthralling.
Bugliosi was the prosecutor and he was a very good one at that too.
Bugliosi was a good writer, he also wrote in quite a logical unbiased way.
Reading this book was so interesting.
The Manson trial in particular was one of the strangest, and most high-profile criminal cases in American history, but I had never known much about it other than the crimes themselves.I think with audiobooks I get on better with non-fiction, so this was the perfect book to listen to in this format.
I also loved the fact that this was written by Bugliosi, the chief prosecutor for the Manson trial, as I felt I was privy to a lot of very important information and details that I would have otherwise known nothing about.If you like true crime books, and/or have any interest whatsoever in Charles Manson or the infamous Manson murders, I would highly recommend this audiobook.
By the end the novel, my opinion of the hippy subculture became permanently interconnected with this murdering cult.
Needless to say, by the end of the book I was burnt out (but not in a bad way).I knew about the Manson Family and the Murders due its pop culture and cult notoriety but other than that I was completely clueless as to what actually happened back in 1969.
It also gave me a better understanding of the pop culture stemming from it (e.g. one of my favourite horror movies is based off these murders: The Strangers; and a recently published fiction novel I want to check out: The Girls).
there're times, are times keep on going...think you love me, babe...you know that it is truea folk singer, a racist. a junkie, another self-negotiating loser[image error]with Afton Elaine Burton
I got this book for my trip to New Hampshire with my family to stimulate myself while sitting in a condo wishing I had nine dollars to go see Harry Potter alone due to my sorta sick crush on the character who plays Ron Weasley.I am learning about my new interest in terrible but insanely interrelated crimes committed by and against high-profile persons.
It is insanely detailed about the crime and the trials and I don't think anyone should read every word in this book unless they are completely obsessed with the murders.
I can't stop thinking about reading the book.
How the author made an interesting story and topic so boring is beyond me...
The author was the persecutor for this case and I guess all the reading and writing of boring legal documents bled into his writing style for this book.
If anyone has a suggestion for a book on the Manson Murders or The Family, please comment below because I would love to read an interesting, well-written book on the subject.
I tried reading this book multiple times before just switching over to the audiobook which still put me to sleep at times and took forever to get through.
This one goes straight to my "all time favorite" shelf. Phenomenal! I couldn't stop listening to it.
Like the murders at Cielo Drive, the murders were savage and words were written, in blood, at the scene – including the infamous, “Healter Skelter,” (spelt incorrectly) at the LaBianca home.In July of that year, a music teacher, Gary Hinman, had been stabbed to death at his home.
Indeed, they were the first to link the LaBianca crime with the Tate murders and even suggested the words written at the scene were from the Beatles latest album, the “White Album.”We read of evidence gathered, interviews and the rumours, and fear, that swept Hollywood.
Victor Bugliosi finds he is in charge of prosecuting the Tate-LaBianca murders and painstakingly sets about trying to build a case against the suspects and finding evidence.
An interesting account of the Manson case but a bit outdated now. A lot more has happened since Manson's incarceration and most of the info in this book I have learned over time so I didn't feel like I really learned much. Well written though.
(view spoiler)[Bettie's BooksThe rating, any status updates, and those bookshelves, indicate my feelings for this book. (hide spoiler)]
I was a teenager and do not know what I was thinking even reading it.
To know that such evil was out there actively terrorizing innocent people.
The writing was vivid and graphic and it painted pictures that I would just as soon forget.
the fear in that time of the Manson family was real and on the news.
The writing by Vincent Bugliosi was gripping.
The tension of the police and the civilians was real.
Knowing the horrors that had happened at the ranch and the terror of the creeping of the days and weeks leading up to the murders, was so terrible.
جنازه خونین شارون تیت بازیگر زیبای هالیوودی که ۸ماهه حامله بود غرق در خون با ضربه های متعدد چاقو همراه با ۴ نفر دیگه که به همین هولناکی به قتل رسیدند در خانه سیلو درایو لس آنجلس پیدا می شه.
چارلی و اعضای خانواده که "انتخاب شده" هستند به ته سوراخی در بیابان میرند که سرزمین مخفی پرنعمتی آنجاست و از این ارماگدون نجات پیدا می کنند.
نکته جالب و فکر اینقدر زیاد بود که این ریویو طولانی می شد و خواندنی نبودچنین کتاب هایی درک عمیقی از اجتماع ایجاد می کنند.
OK, I think I'm done with this one at 50%.I haven't picked it up in 3 weeks, and I haven't missed it.Let me be clear: there is nothing particularly wrong with the book itself.
The problem I have is that by this point I've read/watched/listened to so many things on the subject that very little of this is new information to me.
So, as you can imagine, continuing to read this lengthy book just doesn't make a lot of sense in my case.
I think if the author's personality really came through the writing, or if the storytelling itself was more engaging—I would have continued reading.
