https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/251954.The_Duchess
The Duchess is one of my favorite of Jude D’s old books. In it, we have a very unique hero- and a heroine that at once touches your heart and makes you laugh at her frank matter of factness. Claire Willoughby is in love- with a Scottish Duke no less. And good thing because her mother desperately wants her to marry a Duke. Considering she’s a wealthy American Heiress and he's house and title rich but money poor, she’s about to catch him too.But she’s an odd sort. She loves books and learning… and
Harry the Duke is going to marry his American Heiress despite her dreadfully uncomfortable straight forward American ways - he needs the money that comes along with her, but he will be content to never have to spend time with her after the nuptials.Immediately upon their arrival at Bramley Castle, Harry’s ancestral home, Claire realizes something is amiss with her future husband and with his family.But a peculiar man and the relationship they begin after she discovers him wondering around the grounds one morning helps to distract her.
For the majority of the novel, I am happy to be charmed by Claire (who is delightful and intelligent) and Trevelyan (who is bitter and lovely and interesting).
And then near the end, Claire, who has been open-minded about so many things, gets all weird about religion and totally freaks out when confronted with the reality of the practices of another culture.
As much as I love the rest of the book (seriously, a lot), I can't quite overlook or forgive the problematic bits.But overall, it's pretty delightful, and I do enjoy the very end, which not quite as unorthadox a happy ever after as I would like, but makes a good show of it anyway.
Also, the heroine spends 90% of the book thinking she's in love with the wrong man and telling the right man how awful he is and how much she hates him and wants him dead.
He found out his brother wasn't really dead after years of thinking he was, and what is his reaction: "Oh, is that you?
I hate it when the heroine spends nearly the entire book hating and thinking these horrible things about the hero, how he's cold and evil and cruel and the worst, more uncaring man--no, as Claire put it "machine" on earth.
Number two in the Montgomery series by Jude Deveraux.
Claire Willoughby needs to marry an acceptable man if she wants to keep her inheritance.
She gets engaged to Harry, the Duke of MacArran and travels to Scotland to meet his family.
Once there she meets Trevelyan...I thought I had read this one but I didn't remember it so I guess I missed it.
It wasn't her best but I did enjoy it.
No really big surprises except for one thing (sorry I don't do spoilers).
I liked both the H/h characters but they made me want to slap them several times.
I had planned to stick to one spot per favorite author on my Top 10 list, but there's no way I could possibly choose between A Knight in Shining Armor and The Duchess.
Funny, moody and sexy, The Duchess is unlike any romance I've read before or since.
There are secret passageways in a historic castle, an extremely intelligent heroine, a rather strange but incredibly alluring hero and a little sister nicknamed "Brat" who likes to play dress-up in jewels and priceless gowns.
It's a book that defies description, which might just be one of the reasons it's so fantastic.
Trust me, you should read it.
For my friends that have been curious about the romance "beach trash" that I so revel in reading, I'm listing a few books you might want to start with if you're interested in dipping a toe into the genre...Set mostly in a draughty Scottish castle in the 1880s, "The Duchess" is the story of an American heiress who sails across the Atlantic to marry an impoverished duke.
As all romance novels must, "The Duchess" ends with a happily-ever-after (though slightly more unorthodox than you might think) and shows how falling in love makes you a better person, and the world, a better place."A Knight in Shining Armor" (not half as saccharine as you'd imagine from the title, I promise) is another good one from the author.
The romance is overwhelming, you hate, you love, you hate and then are smiling by the end.
My favorite point in the book...perhaps any romance really, is the moment Trevelayn realizes he is in love with Claire.
“You love her,” Nyssa whispered, and there was wonder in her voice.
“You are in love with her."  “Yes” was all Trevelyan would say.
“Yes, I love her.
I love her mind, her body.
I love her sense of humor.
I love her thoughts.
Were she to love me in return, I’d give her whatever she wanted.” See what I mean?
The h and H do meet but the real story begins in the last half of the book.I really liked their intellectual discussions- how both of them shared a zest for life, drove each other's lonliness away and cared for one another even before the feelings were realized.What I adored was that none of the characters were negative, and everyone had shades of grey.I really adored the supporting parts played by Nyssa, Brat and Oman.Once the couple does fall in love though, there's a lot of passion, feelings are tested and secrets are revealed.Also the book has its good share of humor.The epilogue was very bittersweet.
I had a love hate relationship with this book.
Unlike her later books , which are barely understandable, this book is from Deveraux's golden period. A romance, but NOT full of mushy,gushy, ridiculousness like most romances. Not only are the main characters interesting and believable,but so are all the minor ones,like the heroine's little sister. Like most of Deveraux's books, it's also full of humor :)
Aside from A Knight in Shining Armour, this is my absolute favorite Jude Deveraux novel. All of the characters in this book are interesting and intelligent. The villian of the book is definitely believably evil. The storyline keeps you drawn in throughout the whole book, and the ending is unorthodox. Truly an enjoyable book, and one I read every few years.
So far so good. BUT I DO NOT LIKE the name trewelyan. Is it me or my tounge? However, JD's is always a page turner. FINALLY, finished the book. Have to drag myself thru it. Initially, it was ok but the plot starts to drag itself.
Good, but needed more of an ending, it was just too abrupt and I was left with too many questions!
A favorite comfort read.
I'm not quite sure how to review this one.
There's so many elements to it.
But the core is Claire and Trevelyan.
So she is immediately claimed by a Duke, Harry, whose brother turns out to be Claire's idol, Captain Baker, the great explorer.
But, naturally, she meets Captain Baker, who turns out to be Trevelyan, the real Duke.
He doesn't want the title.
He only wants to explore the world and Harry has promised to finance that.
Claire and Trevelyan fall in love, but it's not an easy one.
I loved this book.
When you know from the very beginning that Claire has fallen for the wrong man, it makes it difficult to enjoy her meeting with the right man.
Since Claire takes forever to see that he's the right man doesn't help.
Then she has the difficulty of knowing that she must marry the wrong man to protect her family because the right man can't.
What a dilemma she faces all the way through the book.
I didn't much care for the way it ended, however, although all the loose ends are tied up snugly and everyone except for the dowager duchess gets what they want.
Lovely and colorful characters. The historical setting was so vivid that one can actually picture the era then. I loved the way the author injects subtle humor throughout the story making it a fun read with enough doses of passionate romance.
I was afraid it would be slow starting, the kind of thing where its taking the heroine forever to travel to the Scottish castle..but not so.
My one quibble was that for as smart as she was, she kept insisting that she loved Harry and couldn't ever see that maybe he was only after her money.
Even if she didn't want to admit to loving Trev, she should have at least admitted that she clearly knew him better than her finance.
but she knew Harry???
I loved that it wasn't a "duke marries for money and then really falls for her" story because those are a dime a dozen.
I'm starting to wonder if Deveraux is a romantic at heart who has been disappointed by her suitors?
After reading this book I didn't know what bothered me about the ending.
Oh yes, a guy says that to me and I'm sure I'll head off into the sunset with him, no problem.
I seem to be disappointed by Deveraux's endings quite frequently.
Yes, the girl gets the guy, but sometimes I wonder if they're really all that great of a catch?
Well, the guy ends up being the brother of her fiance.
One of the few romance novels that I've kept over the years, and now I have a shiny new hardcover first edition to replace my old, tattered and curling mass market (thanks, Mom!) The Duchess has always been my favorite of Jude Deveraux's historical novels, which I devoured as a middle-schooler, when my fondest hobby was toting home giant $2 bags of paperbacks from the library book sale.
I always admired it for its non-conventional romance--(view spoiler)[No kids!
(hide spoiler)]--although I imagine that romance wouldn't seem quite so non-conventional now.
Wonderful characters with flaws and virtues and deceptions grow and blossom and find their true selves,not perfect but to their limits and potential and I fully enjoyed their humanity.
Every secondary character brought a new angle of perception and was worthy of mentioning-beastly and controlling mother of hero,his masochistic sister,beautiful brother that heroine believes is in love with,eccentric relatives and servants,foreign cultures....
Oh and Brat,that is heroine`s 5 years younger pretty sister and a castle with secret passages!
I am going to write the same thing for the Taggart and Montgomery series of Jude Deveraux.
Here is the scoop: We stopped at a friend's house in Tennessee on the last leg of one of our cross country trips about 11 years ago and I had run out of books.
By the time we got home, I had already called the library and asked them to reserve all of the Taggart and Montgomery series books they had!
Here's the funny thing - I have never read any more Deveraux since that time (not even the last Taggart book or the last two Montgomery books).
This is one of my favorite Jude Deveraux books, and it continues to have magic after several readings.Claire is a wealthy American who is supposed to marry a Scottish duke.
She thinks they are marrying for love; he knows they are marrying so he can get her money.
Her word is law and it soon becomes apparent that Claire will never truly be accepted as part of the family.
While exploring the estate grounds, Claire meets a man who she first thinks is old, but then realizes has been sick and it relatively young.
Extraordinary, surreal, breathtaking, miraculous, prodigious, just BREATHTAKING!  Literally and in a very deep and meaningful way, it has taken my breath away! I never thought that it was indeed possible to have not breathed after I read the book. I was perfectly swoon over by each and every scene portrayed by Miss Jude Deveraux's characters. I was swept off my feet! Also, her writing skills are one of a kind. At first, you'll be sure of yourself. You'll be sure of the outcome of the story base
Extraordinary, surreal, breathtaking, miraculous, prodigious, just BREATHTAKING!
Literally and in a very deep and meaningful way, it has taken my breath away!
I never thought that it was indeed possible to have not breathed after I read the book.
At first, you'll be sure of yourself.
You'll be sure of the outcome of the story based on your perspective.
However, as the story goes by, you'll eventually realize that what you thought of it is definitely and fully different with the actual result!!!
[Haha!] DEFINITELY!
Without any doubt, I will surely read this again.
GOD BLESS!
I was blessed!)
Claire Willoughby will lose millions of her inheritance money left to her by her grandfather if she does not marry an acceptable man.
Their engagement announced, Claire's future will be a Duchess, but when she arrives at Bramley Castel, she finds it cold, damp, filled with crazy family members.
But then she meets a family member who's been hiding out in one part of the lone castle, Trevelyan, a very secretive man.
Trevelyan has traveled all over the world and has seen almost everything there is to see, but when he and Claire meet up sparks fly...........great read!
Good book with interesting characters and an actual story.
The ending was a bit too abrupt for me and I know everyone's fallen for Vellie and all, but I really felt for Claire.
He really put her through the ringer!
All that creepy flirting with her little sister and then again with the pearl goddess and then trying to make her prove her love by having her choose him over her family.
Yeah, yeah, troubled childhood, trouble expressing his love, w/e.
I'm sure he ended up making a great husband.
The Duchess kept me avidly turning pages. I am a big fan of books set in Scotland so that kept me interested and I loved the travels of Captain Baker and Claire and Vellie falling in love with one another. Claire and Harry were together for all the wrong reasons so their was no love lost between them. The friendship between Claire and Vellie was very natural and the story flowed perfectly along. A really good read.
This book was the very first romance novel that I ever bought and it began my life long love of reading romance. I have read this one book so many times that the poor cover is pitiful. It is a story that never gets old and I would reccomend this book to anyone who loves to read.
I was really liking it until about the last 20 pages. Did not like how it ended-kinda anti-climactic
Loved it!
