https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/33453.You_Suck
"Ummmm, that's cool." Looking for exit.The kid picks up a book on the clearance rack.
If you like vampires, you'll LOVE this book."I read, "You Suck...A Love Story." Is he high or something?
This looks like a a suckASS book."OK, thanks, I'll give it a try." I bought the book, and now I'm so grateful that the kid decided that I was the vampire loving type of chick.It is impossible to completely classify this book.
It's a love story of vampires that is hysterically funny!I can't even begin to try and explain why it's funny, so just read it.
Another very funny book from Christopher Moore, this one the middle book in his vampire trilogy. Not as outrageous or imaginative as the other two, this is still vintage Moore with his unique way of dealing with a well worn fantasy subject.Moore may have thought of this trilogy a long time ago, and so he may not be a part of the glutted market (or he is) but not even his comedic talent can completely offset the rush to vampirism that has plagued our books for a while.
Funny, with some definitely quotable moments.
That's not an insult--I still enjoy them and definitely snicker out loud in ways that make those around me pick up their things and stealthily move away from the crazy person, but they're a little too "wink, wink, nudge, nudge" sometimes in their humor.
What impresses me with Moore is that, often among all of the wacky chaos, he can sneak up on you with a beautiful turn of phrase or moment that catches you off-guard.
The scene where Jody feeds off of a man with terminal cancer is beautiful and touching without being maudlin.
I love Christopher Moore. I mean, I really, really love this guy's writing. I've given his books to friends, made them required reading for classes that I've taught, and generally done everything I could to help him along.But this one...well, the title pretty much says it all. Moore slapped together a thin plot, an ongoing lovers' quarrel, some gimmicky scenes, a major deus ex machina, and an ending that is truly lame.When the guy is on, he is fantastic. And when he's off, well, he sucks.
This is my first Chris Moore book.
Because Moore is fricking hilarious.
This is the story of two rookie vampires (Jody and Tommy) who are doing their best to avoid the law, former friends, and giving in completely to their primal natures.
Her narration of the story is one of the most entertaining aspects of the book.
Then there’s the bronzed (literally) vampire who sired Jody.
So, if you like vampires who don’t take themselves too seriously (or brood, or sparkle), hilarity, and the mocking of goth/emo/death punk kids (and who doesn’t?), this is the book for you.
This one's going back to the library unfinished, because I'm just not wasting any more time on it.
I read about a quarter of the book, in which stupid, not particularly likable characters bumble their way through a stupid and artificial plot.
Usually, if I read even that much of a book, I'll see it through to the end, if for no other reason than to find out what happens to the characters I've started to know.
This time, though, I really don't care.
Quick review:Cover: Eh Rating:  NC-17Steaminess:  Steamy Thumbs Up:  4Overall: Still funnyCharacters: Well WrittenPlot: The accidental vampire and her lover still mucking things upPage Turner: Yes Series Cont.?
FloodSUMMARY (50 words or less)I wasn’t sure when I started this one if it would live up to the first one, but as I got into it, the laughs were plentiful.
Audio ReviewSusan Bennett brings this narration to life.
I swear I’m not sure I would have enjoyed the book quiet as much without her lively interpretation.
She just brings that little extra.
That having been said, this series isn't exactly Game of Thrones so I didn't feel too lost by starting on book #2, but there were certain parts of the story that I felt like might have made more sense if I had read the books in order.Almost immediately after I started this book, Moore's writing style started to irritate me.
Unfortunately a couple of pages later Moore went back to dead hooker jokes or something and completely lost me again.Speaking of the jokes - I feel like a lot of this book's sins could have been forgiven if it was actually funny.
The book focuses on Jody and Tommy, two new fledgling vampires and their rather unconventional love.
Jody bites Tommy and makes him a vampire.
During daylight, they sleep like the dead.The attraction of this book was the unique cast of characters.
Other cast characters include Chet the really big shaved cat (who makes a rather large appearance in the next book).
Tommy’s night shift friends from the Safeway store – the Animals – add even more comic relief as they cash in their money from the previous book and run off to Vegas.
I was expecting more from this book since Moore wrote it after Dirty Job. But, where Dirty Job was nicely crafted, well-paced, and original, You Suck was not quite the same.
Personally, I was it over by the second time it appeared in Diry Job, but then I saw it in Island of the Sequined Love Nun, You Suck, Blood Sucking Fiends, Lamb, and Fluke.
You Suck seemed like either you wrote it before Dirty Job and just didn't get it published right away or you'd spent too much time with the Animals turkey bowling and then had to cram to make deadline.
Like most of his work, "You Suck" is an outlandish, mildly entertaining story within a story that references previous books and resurrects old characters.
Similarly, Moore's previous books (except "Fluke", which I really enjoyed) have long since departed from my memory, leaving many of the references and characters in this book completely lost on me and the entire work feeling incomplete.
And I remain an inexplicably loyal reader who, twelve months from now, will likely find myself wondering why the next Christopher Moore book seems lacking as it references this work.
What I probably wouldn't accomplish as well as the Dark Lord Flood is the dry wit and wise cracks, which make this book a joy to read.My only criticism is that, as the book goes on, more and more of the story is told through the journal of teenage minion, Abby Normal.
Not that they're bad, but I found them a bit long winded - perhaps a by-product of my slow reading speed.I found myself very attached to the main characters Jody and Tommy.
If Moore writes a sequel to this, I will be eager to read it.
One really amazing new character, and one really not balances this second book out.World: The world buildling is fun, from the insane premise to the rules and the characters that inhabit this weird crazy slice of San Francisco it’s a hoot.
The new addition of Abby is absolutely fantastic and is the best thing in the series after Jody (more below) and the introduction of Blue and honestly the entire storyline of the Animals was pointles and irksome and pretty gross to say the least.
I enjoyed this installment of A Love Story more than I did BLOODSUCKING FIENDS.
Our protagonists are now both vampires and bodies start dropping around them constantly with a blue-skinned hooker, a returned ancient vampire fresh from being bronzed, and really bad self-control from our antiheroes.
The real gem of the book, though, is Allison a.k.a Abby Normal the Perky Goth Girl minion our protagonists recruit despite being two of the dumbest vampires in the history of fiction.
Abby is a nonstop dribble of hilarious observations, rapid fire quips, and verbal diarrhea that attempts to be profound but is just entertaining as hell.
Certainly, Abby is awesome.8/10
I’ll pencil in a laugh sometime next week.I’m going to try the next book, because Moore has earned a lot of credit with me.
The sudden appearance of Steve as a vampire hunter/love interest for Abby at the eleventh hour is almost as unsatisfactory as the wimpiness of the new vampires on the block.Sigh.I didn’t even realize how worked up I was about this until I wrote this review, and now I just can’t even.Do I read the third book?
The cover copy seems to promise that it foregrounds Abby and includes a vampire cat.But is it worth it?I have since read the third book.
I need to start with book #1!" But quickly it became evident that going back to Bloodsucking Fiends was unnecessary, for Moore seamlessly presented the backstory to fill in the reader.I listened to the audiobook, and Susan Bennett did a marvelous job with all the characters, making each one sound different.
WhatEVER!" goth girl Abby, the black Lash, born-again Clint, and homeless wino William all had their own distinct voices.
Her sassy tone perfectly fit the mood of the book.
My favorite character by far was Abby Normal, and Bennett brought that girl to life.However, I don't think I'll listen to any more Moore novels when I'm hiking.
I started this and thought "Really? This is dumb." Then I looked up my friend's reviews and was like…"Hmmmm, they seem to like it." It was a challenge book for me, so I decided to keep on…hoping it would get tolerable at least. As I got further, I found that I was more interested….had a few chuckles. I started thinking…"Oh yeah, I remember these characters…they are quite funny." By 80%……I was LAUGHING OUT LOUD!!! Too funny. Christopher Moore you crack me up! Abby Normal is "the bomb!" Not quite a 4, but 3.5 for sure!
Últimamente todos los libros de Moore que leo vienen geniales pero la caga irreparablemente con los finales.
Didn't suck.
I didn't think this book was that good. The first book was funny, but the jokes in this just got too juvenile, I think. The characters just aren't interesting.Like the first book, it is very slow paced for the most of it, and then ''the big battle'' at the end goes over pretty quickly. And again it cuts between different characters way too fast.You don't have to read the first book to read this one, as everything is explained.
Left my duty undone, like so much dog poop on the blooming sidewalk of the tragedy that is my life.
If there wasn’t a TOTALLY hot guy two tables away, acting like he doesn’t notice me, I would weep.
It’s like he has this power over me.
Like I have an eating disorder and he’s a package of Oreo Double Stuffed cookies.
I think my system has always wanted to survive on a liquid diet, and until I’m brought into my Dark Lord’s loving embrace, it’s Starbucks for me.(Transcribed from Audio, so I probably got the punctuation wrong.)Yeah, I'm totally tickled.
It is particularly important figuring out how to get some coffee as the vampire body is highly resistant to anything resembling normal human fare.The cast of characters is a rich one, with The Emperor, a homeless guy who runs things on the street, William, a homeless derelict and owner of a very large cat, a 16-year-old wannabe who attaches herself to Tommy and Jodi, a Vegas hooker who had made herself blue to keep business alive, and who the Animals had acquired while running through the several hundred grand they’d gotten from the old bloodsucker.
So.This book.I read the first one in this trilogy, Bloodsucking Fiends, probably in 8th grade or freshman year of high school.
That's a large amount of time between books, but the author seems to have forgotten that his original story happened in the late 90s, because suddenly the characters are all carrying cell phones and downloading music at Starbucks with WiFi.It was a fast read, and it was interesting to see what he came up with as the continuing story of Jody and Tommy.
Abby was funny at times, so that was nice.Despite this trilogy being called, "A Love Story," I still don't believe that Jody loves Tommy.
Sporadically funny, disjointed vampires-in-love story, that almost stands alone from it's prequel, Bloodsucking Fiends.
Jody and Tommy are young, new vampires, just trying to make things work.
They have to move, because Tommy's old gang at work has learned that he's a vampire now, them and the blue call-girl they've brought back from Vegas, and they are probably going to come after him.
It is all just paused until the next installment.I might have enjoyed this more if I'd read Bloodsucking Fiends, but I didn't enjoy this one enough to bother.
C'era una volta...Una casa editrice italiana che pensò bene di tradurre il secondo volume di una trilogia, senza minimamente curarsi del primo o, per quanto possa contare, del terzo.Si credeva fosse una legenda, ma risultò essere tutto tristemente vero.Ora..
Mi va bene (quasi) tutto: serie interrotte, porcate pubblicate senza ritegno perché "vendono", scelte grafiche che fanno drizzare i peli..
MA TRADURRE UN SECONDO VOLUME DI UNA TRILOGIA NO, DAI!!Ma qual è il senso??
Forse nella lettura sono stata influenzata dal mio "NO" totale a questa furbata, ma ho sentito spesso la mancanza di alcuni elementi tanto da confondermi e, lo ammetto, anche distrarmi perché aspettavo da una riga all'altra una spiegazione.Per il resto Moore è sempre geniale e a volte ho riso di gusto..
When I picked up this book to fulfill a book club requirement, I did not know that it was the second book of a trilogy. I don't feel that I missed much. I think the Author gave enough of a backstory that I did not need to go back and read the first book. For me, it did well as a stand alone book. I didn't love it but I didn't hate it either. I liked it. It had some clever and funny moments. The part of the book I enjoyed most was Abby's diary entries. They were fun.
Una ligera y muy divertida novela de Christopher Moore que, en mi opinión, es algo inferior a la primera de esta trilogía. Es genial para pasar el rato y despejarse, sin más pretensiones.
This is so funny that I kept cracking-up listening to this audiobook while walking the dog. Love it!
I bought this from a clearance bin because the author has the same name as my husband.
I made myself finally open it up.I haven't read anything by this author and had no idea what to expect going in.
It does a great job of recapping what happened in the first book.This is about a vampire, Jody, who turns her love slave, "minion" into a vampire.
Basically, it's about him figuring out his new vampire life and them running from a bunch of people.
It just felt really sloppy to me.It's a quick read and I got through rather quickly.
I'm not into vampire stories at all, and I'm pretty sure I never will be. But I made an exception here because this series is seriously funny, like laugh out loud funny, the kind of funny where the iced mocha that I just took a sip of shoots right back out of my mouth because I'm laughing so hard at something I just read. The first book was hysterical. This second book in the trilogy even more so. It's just what I needed during a week that kinda sucked.
