https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/4687.The_Cider_House_Rules
At the same time though, our story takes place when abortion was illegal, and you see Dr. Larch save lives, and the issue of choice itself is framed almost perfectly.
You have no choice but to have an opinion on it after reading this book, because you get hit with the weight of its seriousness.The Cider House Rules has all the traits of a good Irving novel: the humane, odd, and likable characters with unusual life experiences; a storyline with moral undertones; profound scenes -- some zany and humorous -- others wise and touching.
And when Wally Worthington and Candy Kendall, a glamorous young couple who’ve come to terminate their own unexpected pregnancy, tell Homer about the apple orchards back home near the ocean, he leaves with them, planning to stay just for a week or so to learn about orchards for the orphanage.The book essentially recounts Homer’s coming-of-age.
Choices seem so much easier in the books that he used to read to the orphans: Dickens’s Great Expectations and David Copperfield (for the boys), and Jane Eyre for the girls.In a sense, Homer sets out to realize his own great expectations, working in the orchards that Wally’s mother runs, falling in love with Candy and forging a lasting friendship with Wally.
I just finished reading this novel, and it is so phenominal that I'm almost speechless, and I'm sad that it is over.
Irving develops the characters superbly, such that the reader comes to know and love all of them, even those with significant flaws.
The abortion issue is handled perfectly; while it becomes obvious what Irving's opinion is, he presents both sides of the issue objectively and refrains from preaching on the subject or becoming overtly political.
Irving is a storyteller on par with Dickens, and I'm going to add his other works to my future reading list.
It was hard for me to feel any sense of connection to the different characters, and I cared very little about Homer's life at Ocean View - I was always anxious to get back to St. Cloud's and the orphanage.
The triangle between Wally, Candy, and Homer could have been interesting, but it is written without any tension between the characters.
It was so boring that fifteen years of potential strain was glossed over.The one truly interesting character in the book (besides Dr. Larch) turned out to be the illustrious Melony, whom I hugely enjoyed reading.
Moving on, John Irving's The Cider House Rules is a thought-provoking novel that's both entertaining and affecting.
During the first parts of the book, I couldn't help feel that grim aura that enveloped St. Cloud's.
The feeling that every woman had whether their case was that of an abortion or of the orphan conception.
Dr. Larch did abortions in St. Cloud's and wanted Homer to follow in his foot-steps.
Homer, though he thought abortion should be legalized, didn't want to perform it.
Because abortions are illegal, women who need and want them have no choice in the matter, and you—because you know how to perform them—have no choice, either.
I am VERY Pro-Life and was very skeptical before about picking it up...although I love John Irving as an author.
He is excellent at character development and his stories are so multifaceted that you are never disappointed.
This is certainly true here in this novel.
I loved how Irving intertwined her story into the theme of the book.
I found myself torn with my own personal feelings about the love triangle of Wally, Candy and Homer.
This novel reminds us that sometimes even the underdog doesn't win although he plays a damn good game.
Hats off to Irving once again for a rich and delectable story...
Incredible book. You can watch my review here - http://youtu.be/NINrIZE1Dco
I started the Cider House Rules after giving up on 3 novels that just couldn't hold my attention.John Irving will certainly make you love reading again.
The Cider House Rules is once again a novel rich with characters so real you forget this is fiction and you care about what happens to them.Why can I only say that about a mere handful of writers?This is a novel about abortion in the 1940s.
The dilemmas of abortion are obvious, and this novel does lean towards pro-choice.
(Let it be known that I still have no interest in watching the movie.) And if it weren't for this John Irving Challenge I'm doing, where I'm trying to read all of his novels in a year's time, I likely never would have picked this up.
Lorna and her love story was beautiful and heartbreaking, and I'm glad Irving took the time to follow Melony's storyline all the way to the end.
These lengthy chapters are further rendered pointless when, later in the book, Irving skips ahead in time fifteen years.
The sense of setting perfectly evoked, able to swallow almost any reader.Like every Irving novel, this is not a quick read.
It unspools slowly — and Cider House seems to unspool even slower than this author’s other works; maybe it’s the long chapters — and forces the reader to have patience.
My heart is left aching, knowing I’ve just experienced another modern classic as penned by John Irving.”It’s natural to want someone you love to do what you want, or what you think would be good for them, but you have to let everything happen to them.
the cider house rules in particular seems more real than the others, the orphanage and apple orchards seem more tangible, the emotions less idiosyncratic and the characters more human.the direct issue here is abortion.
i'm all for seeing tobey maguire play charmingly awkward characters, but the movie falls far short of the complex web of events and relationships of the book.
I really can't stand John Irving's style of writing.
This was a six hundred page novel that should have been three hundred.
Also, I found it to be a little heavy-handed.
He admits that it is deliberately didactic, but I think he pushes it the the point that it starts working against him.
I was surprised to learn that he wrote the screenplay for the film, which I thought was excellent.
If he had employed half the discretion or subtley in the novel that he did in the film it would be a great book.
Other times there's just that "indescribable something" which makes me love a book.
There are many social issues John Irving bravely writes about in a way to allow us, his readers, discuss how we feel about the world around us.
John Irving is a courageous man to bring together so many social problems in America and leave our citizens (through our lawmakers) to make those difficult decisions.After reading this book which took about four days, I thought of the issues brought up by John Irving and his character Homer Wells for days on end.
Far too often they seem like shallow blanket judgments used to convey a character trait but which instead seem to make Irving's characters seem like cardboard cutouts.What Cider House Rules does provide is a very even-handed look at the pro-choice vs.
Through Homer and Larch's conflict regarding abortion, Irving manages to shine an insightful light on a subject which has pulled hard at America's edges for as long as the nation has been extant.All in all, I think I enjoyed Cider House Rules.
Digital audiobook performed by Grover GardnerFrom the book jacket: Irving’s sixth novel is set in rural Maine, in the first half of the 20th century.
The movie left out a lot and compressed the timeline.The span of the novel is about 70 years, taking Dr Larch from a young man to his death in his 90s.
The reader also clearly understands why Homer makes a different decision, how he struggles to love this man who is like a father to him, once he makes that decision.
The only thing necessary for the triumph of evil is for good men to do nothing.” ― Edmund Burke" In what many consider John Irving's masterwork, we're asked to consider abortion and the rights of society in imposing laws on its citizens.
The Cider House Rules were posted by well intentioned people who didn't live in the cider house and who didn't really understand what life there was like.
No matter what your stand on abortion, whether you're pro-life or pro-choice, I'm sure that if you read "the Cider House Rules" you'll be pro-Irving.

I don't know how Irving does it. Again, in this book nothing spectacular happens. We just follow some very human characters in their everyday lives, with all its ups and downs, with its beautiful sides as well as its sad ones. But I just loved to read this, mainly because I cared for the characters. Most of them are so kind and warm, they have so lovable quirks and their passion sometimes leads them to make stupid mistakes. It's easy to connect with them and in my opinion, that is the particular beauty of this story.
It's a fairly hefty book that follows one character throughout most of his life, from birth until middle age.The book centers around St. Cloud's, an orphanage in Maine where the resident obstetrician, Dr. Larch, not only delivers babies but performs abortions as well.
When we take controversial issues like abortion and put them in a novel; when we read about characters who seem as foreign to us as a martian and yet could live in our same city; when we look through the eyes of someone else as if they were our own, what we are essentially doing is humanizing something.
I liked the first part, I had also a lot of laugh-out-loud moments and I was curious to see what would happen next.
I was totally in the story and also liked the characters, they were all so particular and eccentric.
It is as if they didn't have a development: they were the same from the beginning of the book till the end, at least 30 years later.
Maybe the only character that had a small change in her personality and that surprised me was Melony.
I arrived at the end of the book that I had enough of the characters and their lives.
But all things considered, I think three stars is all it was for me.
This word was so overused in the first 20% of the book that I started keeping track and even before I hit the 20% mark, I had lost count.
He continued to use this word throughout the whole entire book,(causing much eye rolling) but thankfully he did so without the zest used in the beginning.
No doubt, the writing of John Irving was absolutely beautiful.
I just wish he used his talent to describe some good things, but this was truly a most depressing book.
Dr. Larch delivers babies who are to be left at the orphanage, and performs abortions on the women who request them.
As Homer grows up, Dr. Larch teaches him to deliver babies and perform abortions, planning to make Homer his successor.
For instance, the moment when Homer Wells decides that he won't perform abortions:"In eight weeks, though still not quick, the fetus has a nose and a mouth; it has an expression, thought Homer Wells.
Dr. Larch, on the other hand, decides to perform abortions by looking at a mother.
I think it's probably the best book about kindness I have read.
It kinda gives you hope in humanity.The book portrays the world that is definitely not a very good place: it's cruel, it's lonesome, it's messy, bloody, and unjust, and you have no right to choose, and you have very few opportunities, and everyone is either an orphan or a deeply unlucky man, but in this stupid, unfair world kind, self-effacing people like Dr Larch and Homer Wells somehow manage to bring glory.
The most honorable thing about their self-sacrifice is that it feels completely natural.
I really, really wanted to like this book, and I thought it was very good initially, but the more I read, the less I liked it.
What bothered me was an overall lack of connection with the characters and the fact that I honestly felt that this more than 600 page book was never going to end!
Many years ago, I read a terrible book by him, “The 158-Pound Marriage”, named after one of the characters who weighed the “dreaded” 158-pounds.
I’m giving it two stars, because I feel a wee bit generous and because I have to be honest in that I liked it at first.
I love John Irving but stayed away from this work for years because of the "abortion" issue. I didn't want to be preached to, (in principle I am against abortion) and I foolishly underestimated Irving's ability to create a complete work, one in which "abortion" was a small part. This is one of his finest works and I recommend it without reservation. Irving forces the reader to view the world from many angles and does it with his usual excellence in creating characters with depth and a plot that keeps you engaged page after page.
PERFECT.
Tradičně výborný Irving. Sice je pro mě stále srdcovou záležitostí Meany, tahle kniha mi ale připomněla, proč mám tohoto spisovatele tak ráda.
Doktors Lārčs liek uz viņu lielas cerības, taču Homērs nolemj dzīvot pats savu dzīvi.Mūsdienu „tikumības” pārņemtajā laikmetā, kad valstsvīri pa televīziju un radio gvelž lietas, par kurām viņiem acīmredzot nav nekādas saprašanas, šī grāmata noteikti būtu dikti aktuāla un iespējams pat iekļaujama vidusskolnieku obligātās literatūras sarakstā.
Sieviete nevar izvēlēties starp bāreni un abortu, ārsts par aborta veikšanu vai neveikšanu.
Sievietei tiek liegts speciālists, ārstam atliek izvēle darīt to, ko viņš negrib, vai sūtīt viņu meklēt ne tik kvalificētu palīdzību.Otrs ne mazāk svarīgais temats tiek atspoguļots grāmatas nosaukumā tie ir likumi rakstītie un nerakstītie.
Ultimately the book had a very good point.
We also watch young Homer as he learns about the purpose of rules.
Ultimately though, it is the character of Melanie, who I feel is the hero of the story.
Candy is a character clearly invented by a man, for men.
Candy isn't the only flat character, and there's a lot of useless information about things that don't really add to the plot, or have to do with anything.
This would be fine if these awful scenes contributed to story, or plot, or were interesting, or placed in strategic places.
J'ai eu du mal à entrer dedans car, avec les ponts de mai, je ne lisais pas régulièrement. Mais avec plus de constance, je me suis attachée à tous ces personnages. Et John Irving reste un conteur hors pair !
