https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1304088.One_Pair_of_Hands
I'm just head over heels in love with Monica Dickens and her hilarious memoirs. Her writing is wonderful and so full of life I can't stop laughing as I am introduced to a variety of strange and eccentric characters that she has to work with. This memoir follows her life as a cook in various houses. It's fascinating to hear about her duties and her accounts are so rich and funny i sometimes forget I'm reading a true story. Wonderful, wonderful woman, her great grandfather would be so proud 😉
“Teribbile”!Monica Dickens, figlia di una facoltosa famiglia, pronipote del grande scrittore, per assaporare il gusto della vita vera, abbandona i privilegi e inizia a lavorare come domestica.
Dall’avventura nasce un libro.
Ci sarebbero altri dieci capitoli.
Io mi fermo qui.Cara Monica Dickens, sarà anche la pronipote del noto Charles, ma che due palle!Pensavo a una camomilla letteraria, qualcosa che mi accompagnasse sorridendo fra le braccia di Morfeo.
E invece sono bastati cinque capitoli per scatenare il mio spirito omicida.
Il libro, da su, è andato giù.
Insieme a Monica.
When she lands her first job as a cook-general, she discovers that taking one class is not the same as being a chef.
She even spent time as a cook in a country house, complete with snooty servants.This memoir is a hoot.
She handles her failures well, using humor to make the situation seem a little less awful than it was.
I couldn't put it down until I found out how long she stayed at her job and what happened during that time.
This is a must read for anyone who has had an awful job or anyone who has repeatedly cooked for other people.
It most certainly must have been but Dickens’ account of it is almost the opposite, her writing making all she describes very funny indeed (situations she finds herself in, people, and most of all, her own lack of experience and to an extent, efficiency, which gets her into her fair share of scrapes), as she goes from job to job, trying to cope (she has had training in some “fancy” French cooking but isn’t quite up to the mark with more basic things like boiling an egg), making friends with the other staff, gossiping, enjoying her employers’ rows, and even sweeping the dust under the bed―she does (work aside) enjoy herself thoroughly.
LA FENICE BOOKHo letto la trama e mi pareva qualcosa di molto carino poi ho letto la biografia dell'autrice Monica Dickens e non immaginate minimamente chi sia ...lei mi ha colpito tanto, quindi ho deciso di leggere questo romanzo.
"Occhio non vede cuore no duole" era il suo motto.L'abilità di scrivere di Monica Dickens è sorprendente, un romanzo così semplice poterebbe annoiare perché si ripetono sempre gli stessi passaggi e le stesse mansioni ma lei con la sua verve, la sua capacità di tenere viva l'attenzione sulle sue vicissitudini porta a concludere l'opera in pochissimo tempo senza che la stessa dia noia.
I didn't like her so much when she was on a train on her way to take a job as the head cook in an establishment reminiscent of Downton Abbey (an interlude that strains credulity a bit, as she was 22 when the book was published, and it's hard to believe she had the gravitas to take on this position).
After a year and a half, she got so worn down at a job where she was both cook and maid of all work -- actually one of the few places where she liked her employer -- that she called a halt to the experiment.
E' così che un giorno lascia la vita oziosa che conduce e si cerca un lavoro, non avendo nessuna esperienza e avendo seguito qualche corso di cucina decide di presentarsi come una cuoca tuttofare (ovvero all'occorrenza anche cameriera e donna delle pulizie).Le avventure, o più spesso le disavventure, della Dickens rendono questo volume davvero divertente, l'autrice in effetti racconta le sue giornate con una ricca dose di ironia, non risparmiando nemmeno se stessa ma soprattutto i suoi datori di lavoro, con l'ovvio risultato di far sorridere il lettore.
As a young woman, she grew bored of "going out to parties that one doesn't enjoy, with people one doesn't even like." Much to her family's surprise, she decides to "go into service," working as a cook-general for the wealthy "on the other side of the green baize door." This memoir covers her day-to-day life during the year and a half she spent going from job to job.
Yet for precisely these reasons the uncomprehending pettiness of her employers so hung up on "the servant problem", who cannot fathom that each ring for service puts a spanner in the servants' works, comes across as very grating.
With humour and levity she still pulls great punches - for instance:A maid makes a good defenceless listener for people who want to talk about themselves and not be answered back.or worse:It is a curious game that people like to play sometimes, drawing out the maid (baiting the butler in some houses), in order to get amusement out of the screamingly funny idea that she may have some sort of a human life of her own.
I absolutely adore this book. I've read it multiple times, and (like the Provincial Lady series) it never disappoints. Yes, it is a relatively light and fluffy true tale of a mildly aristocratic young lady who wants to see how the other half lives and hires herself out as a maidservant in Britain in the 1930s. It's beautifully written - she's a relative of Charles Dickens - and great fun. She learns a few lessons along the way, but it's never mawkish or sentimental. It's just one of those books that makes me happy.
It is a long time ago but I still remember this as being very funny as were the rest in the series.
Considerando che è ambientato non solo in Inghilterra ma anche negli anni Trenta, per me è difficile riconoscermi in questo mondo, ma sicuramente la Dickens non ha fallito per quanto riguarda il divertimento, e One Pair of Hands si può leggere anche un pochino come un libro di storia sociale, perché l'autrice pur non commentando il mondo intorno a sé lo descrive vividamente.Certo qualche lettore ha puntato il dito sulle descrizioni a volte un po' crudeli delle persone che la Dickens ha incontrato nei suoi lavori, e anche su una certa condiscendenza nei confronti di una classe sociale più bassa della sua ma non necessariamente composta da sempliciotti.
Her life as a debutante is an endless round of exhausting gaiety and 'pointless' parties.
...so I turned to cooking.
“However,“When I told my family that I was thinking of taking a cooking job, the roars of laughter were rather discouraging.” “One Pair of Hands” follows Monica, the great-granddaughter of Charles Dickens himself, as she takes one cooking job after another in London, burning sauces, frantically preparing dinners for parties of ten and, in the process, dropping dishes and helping herself to the cooking sherry.
The author's entertaining vignettes of her life as a cook and maid are hilarious!

3.5 stars. Not as interesting as I'd hoped. Monica comes off as kind of a grown up version of Amelia Bedelia, so in that respect her situations are amusing!
This book is an account of the year and a half Ms Dickens chose to spend working as a servant, specifically as a cook-general, despite the fact that she came from a wealthy family, and was at liberty to choose a more leisured life.
She justifies her unusual choice on the grounds that she was bored, and that the alternative life of leisure and parties seemed pointless.
And she wanted practical experience cooking, and this wasn't possible in her own wealthy household in which the servants ruled the kitchen.
So she became a servant herself, and learnt to cook in other people's kitchens.
Recommended by my English teacher at school; read it and then again much later - it's very funny. Very English too - of a certain decade. I checked, written in 1939. And Yes, she was the grand-daughter, no, great, grand-daughter of Charles.
Spassosissimo!Davvero brava, lei!
A bored debutante decides to get a glimpse of how the other half lives, and on the strength of a couple of cooking classes plunges into life as a "cook-general" in 1930s London.
One feels there must be quite a bit of poetic licence somewhere, either re: her actual abilities or re: the employers' reactions.
A light, quick read by someone who can at least handle the language properly, though her attitudes and posing made her less than endearing to this working-class girl.
Loved this book. LOVED. IT. I laughed my booty off the whole way through it (though sometimes my hands covered my mouth in horror at the scraps Ms. Dickens got herself into). Such a great book; man, those Dickenses have writing in the blood, don't they? Her characters were every bit as rich as her great-great-grandpapa's.
This is a light read that talks about the granddaughter of Charles Dickens who masquerades as a cook/maid below stairs when she was born and raised above stairs - entertaining.
En este su debut literario nos cuenta el resultado de una epifanía a las tres de la mañana (hora terrible para las reflexiones existenciales, como ella misma reconoce en el primer párrafo del libro) tras la que Monty se lanzó al mundo laboral buscando trabajo de cook-general.
Es algo añade una capa más de fina ironía a sus desventuras.Monica esconde su propia identidad inventándose diversos personajes como a Plover, la cocinera estirada perfecta, creando todo tipo de historias familiares y disfrazándose para las distintas entrevistas de trabajo.
Upstairs meets very downstairs in this recounting of the adventures of a 'toff' as she experiences life as a cook and house keeper. The great grand daughter of Charles Dickens finds herself bored with the trappings of privilege in London so decides to get a job - shocking all those she knows. Lacking experience in all things domestic, Ms Dickens manages to talk her way into the sculleries of the wealthy and wacky. There her education and our entertainment begin. Delightfully witty, wonderfully entertaining and historically enlightening at the same time. Highly recommended.
So crazy it just might be real...on the other hand, since the author admits her astonishing gift for work history fictionalization, some of this below-stairs tale of a cook’s domestic tussles between a dressmaker’s smelly pet and ongoing spat with his underappreciated secretary (or the crazy newlyweds) might be some tall telling.
I especially like Monica’s dedication to truth- finding, even if crumpets are burnt and stories are heard at keyholes.
The world must be entertained!
She must have picked up that much from her uneventful training at the drama school, even if she did get booted for lack of ambition (horror of horrors).
This was how I ran into Monica Dickens' books, hands first.
The work she'd taken on, cook-general maid for households of similar class to her own (or lower), was both less and more than her education and life had trained her for.
So much planning, so much caring, , cleaning, neatening, entertaining, preparing, smoothing out and then putting back in order are needed for keeping up even the modest households where Dickens works.
It is a partial dehumanization, and some of the employers clearly want to see their staff as humans, if not equals.
Delightful memoir of a middle to upper class young woman who wants to make her way, at least for a time. She takes kitchen positions for which she is utterly unprepared, works unbelievably hard, is not infrequently abused, finally gains some skills and quits the game. Well written
Gentle, amusing and well-written… This is an interesting and entertaining memoir of the period when Monica Dickens (great-granddaughter of Charles of that ilk) decided to work for a time as a cook-housekeeper. As a daughter of a well-off family in the ‘30s, she had no need to work for money but, bored with a life revolving around social events and parties, Monica had taken some cookery courses and then discovered that her family’s own cook did not take kindly to her interfering in the kitchen.So
As a daughter of a well-off family in the ‘30s, she had no need to work for money but, bored with a life revolving around social events and parties, Monica had taken some cookery courses and then discovered that her family’s own cook did not take kindly to her interfering in the kitchen.So she signed up with an employment agency and found herself, despite her inexperience and self-confessed inefficiency, in a series of jobs ranging from cooking and cleaning in the flat of a bachelor to being the cook in a large country house.
Having a healthy curiosity, she also took interest in the on-goings of the ‘above-stairs’ families and provides us with humorous and, in the main, affectionate portraits of all these varied characters.I first read this gentle, amusing and well-written book many years ago and am glad to see it re-published.
She doesn't outright say that she comes from a wealthy family, but that's the implication - certainly, you don't give up jobs as easily as she does if you are at all worried about money (plus her Great Granddad was the Dickens, so you'd think there'd be a bit money left over from his time).There is a suggestion that she's somewhat flighty - before being a cook general, she tried and failed to be an actress.
And after her stint as a cook general, she tried various things (including being a nurse, as detailed in One Pair of Feet) before she eventually became a writer.
I couldn't recommend this to a thriller addict.
The most suspenseful bit is whether or not her perfect souffle will survive waiting for the overdue dinner guest.
Thriller addict--what's the point?
Me--hilarious!It's about this young lady who gets bored with the society rounds of tea/party/theater and decides to take up a profession.
She'd tried acting school and got kicked out on her duff--couldn't act--so she decides to take up cooking.
And by "take up" I don't mean dabble in a little haute cuisine on her own--I mean "hire out as a paid laborer." And labor she did--plus a good bit of acting.
Wodehouse character Emerald Stocker comes to mind (the daughter of an American millionaire who lost her pin money on a horse race and took work as a cook at Totleigh Towers, finally running off with Gussie Fink-Nottle, Newt-Fancier).
Like Emerald, Monty has a jump-in approach to life, making a complete mess of kitchens, her work references and the English Class System.I now own this book, so I can dip into it for a jolly time in Imaginary Service Land whenever I need a good laugh.
