https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/3181953-the-heretic-s-daughter
The book is a very fine specimen of very fine historical fiction.Not only that but the author is a tenth generation descendant of this family from 1690s Massachusetts during the height of the Salem Witch Trials.
The conditions at the best of times are challenging but at the worst of times the author takes you into the suffering to such a degree that you start to panic and frantically want to skip pages or take long breaks from reading.
"I am so excited to have discovered a new favorite author and very much want to read her other novels !!
. . . for where there are women, there are witches. In 1692, jealous relatives, some pissed off neighbors, and a disgruntled former employee united to accuse an entire family of witchcraft. Since it was the good old days of guilty until proven innocent, they were tossed into a literal dungeon to rot. Forget zombies, ghosts, and vampires . . . other people are the true monsters here.A scary, scary cautionary tale about the abuse of power, and the dangers of a theocracy.Let's not let this happen
. . . for where there are women, there are witches.
In 1692, jealous relatives, some pissed off neighbors, and a disgruntled former employee united to accuse an entire family of witchcraft. Since it was the good old days of guilty until proven innocent, they were tossed into a literal dungeon to rot. Forget zombies, ghosts, and vampires . . . other people are the true monsters here.A scary, scary cautionary tale about the abuse of power, and the dangers of a theocracy.Let's not let this happen again, okay?
I won this here at GOODREADS!While it seemed slow in the beginning, boring even, it was just that very thing that made this book very powerful in it's representation of the events surrounding The Salem Witch Trials.The first half of the book was a day-to-day in the life a 9 year old girl, Sarah Carrier of Andover, giving me a feel for life in 17th Century New England.When the book gets to the accusations, the fear is palpable.
This novel is not so much about the Trials themselves, although giving the fact of the trials, it's more about the family left behind while Sarah's mother was sent to prison and awaiting sentencing.
A compelling historic drama about one of the darkest chapter's in America's history-the Salem witch trials.Told through the eyes of Sarah Cartier, who as an intelligent and curious child finds her life turned into a nightmare when her mother Martha, a herbalist and healer is accused of of witchcraft.
Her entire family is hounded, humiliated and and starved before being sent to a hellish prison.A richly atmospheric novel of insane and cruel hysteria driven by cruel and malevolent preachers.Told through the experiences of childhood, when the youngest children could be jailed and tortured for 'witchcraft' and where even pets are executed for being allegedly 'mediums'This bigoted fanatical savagery is now taking place across the Islamic world.
"Hyssop for cough. Rosemary for fever. A sprig of mint to cleanse ill humors from the mouth. Slippery elm for the midwife. Horse chestnut for stiffness of limb. Golden bough for palsy. But what is the cure for rage? And what of the tortures of a guilty mind? A seeping wound can be bound. Salve can be dabbed to a burn or a swelling bubo. Poison can be drawn with a leech, or a lance. But guilt is a ghost that takes the shape of the body it inhabits and consumes all that is tender within its shell
The Heretic's Daughter by Kathleen Kent is largely the story of Martha Carrier, "the Andover witch", as told from the perspective of her young daughter Sarah.
When supposed supernatural activity in nearby Salem leads to frenzy and panic, the family quarrel is escalated as Sarah's uncle and cousin fan the fires of agitation, leading to the arrest and trial of Martha Carrier.
When Sarah and her brothers are examined in court, they are given no choice but to do as their mother bade them and speak out against her.Kathleen Kent's description of Puritan life is vivid and unrelenting.
Central to the story is the mother-daughter relationship between Martha and Sarah Carrier.
Kathleen Kent is a direct descendant of Martha Carrier, the novel's heroine who was hanged in 1692 at the height of the Salem witch trials.
The prose is solid and smooth, and the portrayal of late-17th century New England is rich with fascinating details of life in that era.The story is told through the eyes of Martha's daughter Sarah Carrier, who is aged ten at the time of the events.A large early portion of the book builds a background showing the many factors leading to the fear and hysteria surrounding the accusations.
This historically accurate story allows the reader to be immersed into the Carrier family's Puritan life in Massachusetts and the Salem Witch Trials.
Kathleen Kent is a descendant of Martha Carrier, who was hung for witchcraft in 1692.
The story is told from the perspective of Martha's daughter as she looks back on her life and tries to come to terms with her familial relationships and the events that shaped her life.
I certainly appreciated Kent's desire to write the book, and it is beautifully written.
But I found out after I finished reading this book that Elizabeth Sessions who marries Richard Carrier at the end of the book is my 8th Great-Grand Aunt.
The book is beautifully written, powerful, and gives you a clear, emotion-filled picture through the eyes of a girl living in late 1600's Andover, Massachusetts (near Salem), of what life was like back then with its Indian attacks, smallpox, terribly hard toil, poverty, and ominous whispers of witchcraft.
You'll need a box of tissues nearby near the end as you read about whole families, including women and children, being tortured into confessing to witchcraft then thrown into jail to starve because their relatives are too poor to pay to feed them.
The Salem Witch trials has always fascinated me, so perhaps I am biased, but I loved ....loved.... loved this book. Sarah Carrier is an interesting narrator since she sees the proceedings as a child might, but with a teen's relationship with her unusual mother. I was amazed by how readily the people of Salem were to believe the tales of witchcraft as the net ever expanded wider and wider. How many women were left untouched in the Salem area?? Is this another allegory for our times - how readily people are to believe the most evil tales??
I am going to say right off the bat that had this been written from Martha Carrier's perspective I think I would have liked this book more.
I loved the writing and I'm impressed by this first time author for doing a wonderful job of making me feel like I was living in a dungeon and without a shower for most of the book for that matter.
I just think I would have enjoyed the adult perspective better because there were alot of things (as the reader)I had questions about that I feel only Martha could have answered for me.
This book spent a lot of time getting to the point, when it finally did I felt "the point" was a good one, but some of the details it focused on were random and not needed; where as there were other details that could have been useful; but were left to the readers imagination.
When the smallpox came to their home town of Billerica, Martha, her husband Thomas and children fled to the home of her Mother in Andover.
When people subsequently came down with the smallpox in Andover, suspicion was thrown on the Carrier family.
Women at the time were supposed to be quiet and subservient to men, so she and her family did not make many friends.The narrative is told through the eyes of Martha's daughter, Sarah, who is nine years old when the book opens.
Ms. Kent is a tenth generation descendant of Martha Carrier and grew up hearing the stories of her ancestors.
She is currently working on a prequel, the story of Thomas Carrier before he came to Massachusetts.
4/5 stars.- 1632 Salem trials - Exquisite writing/solid prose- Eccentric mother/daughter relationship
Was so excited to read this and I felt so blah at the end. Just didn't do it for me.
In 2016, Pulitzer Prize winner, Stacey Schiff revisited the sad history in her meticulous and exhaustively detailed non-fiction history, The Witches: Salem 1692.
Kathleen Kent’s The Heretic’s Daughter, a fictional account from a few years earlier, covers similar ground, but in ways I thought many readers would find more readily engaging and appealing, though other Goodreads reviews suggest I was wrong.
(Goodreaders appear to have liked Schiff’s attempt even less.)Kent’s story is told by a woman in her seventies, recalling her experiences as a ten-year-old in the early 1690s.
(Any who would like even more, could find them in Schiff’s non-fictional account.) Nineteen men and women go to the gallows.
This is an excellent historical fiction about the Salem witch trials.
It is told through the eyes of the daughter of Martha Carrier (convicted and hung) and written by a descendent who grew up listening to the stories.
I liked the manner in which it was written (I believe it would be the language of that time) and could feel what it was like to be falsely accused and imprisoned.
What an awful place and time, especially for the children!
It's easy to see what ignorance, religious beliefs, and hysteria run rampant can do.
Maybe my hopes were simply too high.I found the first 151 pages fairly boring, they were the day to day life of Sarah Carrier, daughter of Martha Carrier - one of the women hanged for witchcraft.
I felt very little emotion come up from the page when Sarah's mother was arrested.
I felt very little when Sarah was arrested.
I've read completely non-fiction accounts of the events and they were less boring than this fictionalized account.Some of the absolute best writing came from the last 50 pages or so, when Sarah is describing the prison scene and how the women either came together or pulled away to survive.
The author, Kathleen Kent is descended from Martha Carrier, one of 19 people hung as witches during the Salem trials.
Martha Carrier is an indelible character, and her daughter Sarah, the narrator, is equally complex.
I found myself crying throughout the reading of this book - the scenes in the prison for witches are devastating, like a concentration camp memoir, as are the scenes between Martha and her husband Thomas, whose own story is dealt with in this book's sequel, THE WOLVES OF ANDOVER.
The characters in these books, and the true story they inhabit is one we should be paying attention to now.
When we got the ARC for this at work I was immediately interested because the author was related to the women she was writing about. This is a fictionalized version of events during the Salem witch trials revolving around Martha Carrier and her daughter Sarah. The first half of the book dragged for me, but the second half made up for it.
If you enjoy reading about the Salem Witch trials, this one is for you. I found it to be a sad book, but a good sad book. It's just hard to stomach that a handful of teenage girls could ruin so many people...
This book swept me up in the world that Sarah lived in. I just can't imagine. A group of young girls have the power to have people killed. The thing is I know unfortunately how bitter women can be.
Nećaka koja je ostavila otisak palca na ispečenoj vekni se zaklinjala đavolu.Susretljiva supruga koja je razdvajala čaršafe na bračnom krevetu bila je demon koji je izvlačio krv zivota iz tijela svoga muza.Rasprava, nerazriješena svađa, psovka ili kletva od prije dvadeset godina ponovo su prizvane u sjećanje, nabrajane i otkrivane...Malena Sara je, zajedno sa majkom, trojicom braće, tetkom, rodicom i hiljade drugih porodica, zivjela u zatočeništvu pune dvije godine, jedni su odlazili i nikad ih više nisu vidjeli, a drugi zauzimali njihovo mjesto.
Having heard about but not knowing much about the Salem Witch trials, I was mesmerized by Kathleen Kent's personalized account in THE HERETIC'S DAUGHTER, as seen through the eyes of a family member of whom Ms Kent herself is a direct descendant.Sarah is the daughter of Martha Carrier and an enigmatic father with a mysterious past, her life in rural Andover, near Salem, depicted with unflinching realism and gorgeous prose.
Martha Carrier does not suffer fools gladly and she emerges as one of the book's strongest and most memorable characters.
Having been shocked and fascinated by the Salem Witch Trials since learning about them in school, I couldn’t wait to read this book.
The author is a descendent of Martha Carrier, one of the first women to hang as a witch, despite the fact that she maintained her innocence until the end.
Although it starts out a bit slow, Kathleen Kent paints a detailed picture of quiet Colonial life before the accusations and subsequent Salem Witch Trials took over.
No, we probably wouldn’t accuse others of being a witch, but how quickly do we believe accusations without proof?
This a wonderful historical fiction set around the time of the Salem witch trials.
Martha's personality depicts her as someone who would be targeted, and yet someone who loves her family dearly in her own way.
I enjoyed getting to know about this time period on a personal level and experiencing it through Sarah & her family.
Highly recommended to early American history buffs, Salem witch trial obsessives, and others who enjoy well written historical fiction!
The book is sober and somewhat melancholic due to its subject matter and time period.
This is a story about how I eventually came to mostly like this book.This book and I got off to a rocky start.
The letter that opens up the novel just felt so completely wrong, like exactly what someone in the 21st century thinks someone in the 19th century would write.
It's so over the top and melodramatic and mea culpa about things that the book will then explain to us very reasonably...I was put off.Note: The rest of this review has been withheld due to the changes in Goodreads policy and enforcement.
You can read why I came to this decision here.
In the meantime, you can read the entire review at Smorgasbook
I really enjoyed this book.
The subject of the witch trials in Early New England have long held my interest.
The author being a direct descendant of Martha Carrier offered a unique perspective.
The story is told through the eyes of Martha's daughter Sarah as a woman in her seventies.
Writing to her grand-daughter, she tells her story in retrospect.Her story covers a relative short period of time.
There is little to celebrate in this book except the end of this horrible chapter in our history.But at it's heart, there are people who refused to give in,be cowed by circumstance or design.And that is always worth reading.
I wept at the injustices perpetuated upon women throughout history.
Boo and hiss to insecure men with tiny junk that project their self-loathing onto others, especially women.
BOO and HISS I say!On a deeper level, I appreciated Kent's portrayal of the bond between mothers and daughters.
Even when you don't understand your mother or - hell - even like the bitch, there is usually a point when you realize there is little to separate the two of you and no one will ever quite understand the song your heart sings when it's being plucked by the complexities of life...except for her.
The Heretic's Daughter..By Kathleen Kent....This was a sad time in history when suspitions were rampant. Many people were called witches and imprisioned because of the helping others when there was not a positive outcome. Medicine was called black magic. They thought some women were too proud and independent. They were pursecuted for who they were. The mother in this story aimed to protect her daughter. There were many accusers, one followed the other with their lies. Mysteries surronded the people in jain, many died.
As a direct descendant of Martha Carrier, when I saw some great reviews of this fictionalized account of her family's ordeal in the witch trials, I felt I simply had to read it.The author has beautifully woven together family history/legend and the facts of the witch trials. She has created a fascinating account of the politics, religion, and conditions of Puritan Massachusetts during this hysteria that, however horrifying, is very believable.
