https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/29340460-sniping-in-france
Sniping in France: With the British Army During the First World War gets a strong 3 Stars for shedding light on key aspects of trench warfare in WWI, namely, snipers and associated observers and scouts.
But this is a new kind of war, needing new ways of fighting.The book is mainly a recounting of setting up sniper schools, along with the associated position of scout and observer.
A tunnel from the trench was next dug, and for many months inside that harmless-looking milestone a pair of keen French eyes noted much of interest that happened in the German line.
This 1920 memoir from a British WWI officer sheds much light on the subject of WWI telescope sighted rifles, a technical subject that has been overlooked to a large degree.
When WWI began in 1914 the Germans led the technology and apparently by the end of the first year of war each German company consisted of roughly 6 snipers with telescope sighted rifles.
Naturally dropped rifles needed to be re-sighted.
A bit of humor is tossed in as on one account a sniper spotted a distant movement and withheld his shot when the object was identified as a cat.
I read a good version on online, glad to see it is being republished. the illustrations are an important part of the book. Rather a low key, 'here is how you do it' book on the technique use in the setting up of sniper positions and the training necessary to do it effectively. The writing was neither the jingoistic "jolly good show" of the war years, or the more realistic horror show of the latter twenties. Fits with the author's background as a big game hunter... technical and practical. a rare and valuable insight on this area of WW1.
For svært spesielt interesserte. Interessant hvor engasjert, lettsindig og motivert man omtaler drap når det er lovlig og positivt for egen nasjon (i krig).
Excellent book on the training of sniping in the trenches during the first world war.
Great study of the history of sniping in the British army in World War 1.
