https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/172764.Full_Moon_Rising
I'm just absolutely freaking amazing.While I have no problem with a lot of sex in books, it just gets on my nerves when characters are sleeping with MULTIPLE people they have absolutely no feelings for, for some stupid contrived reason.
Then I'm turned on by the bad-guy clones, or whatever the heck they are, then MORE sex with the guy who SO OBVIOUSLY drugged me the other day and sliced out my contraceptive chip because he's obsessed with having my baby, yet I'm Too Stupid To Live because all I can think of is SSSSSSEEEEEEXXXXXX!!!I didn't even get half way and she's already had sex about 10 times ...
I’m not sure how to rate this book: I’m torn between a 2 and a 3 star rating.There’s one thing I am pretty sure about, though: miss Keri Arthur sure loves her heroine.
Another thing I don’t like is bad and/or illogical world building.
But as the book progressed and we learned more about the world Riley is living in, things stopped making sense.
Another thing that seemed illogical was the fact that the different species of the supernatural community didn’t know much about each other, even basic stuff like general powers and longevity.
I finished this book a week ago and didn't write a review straight away so now all my feels are gone. What I do remember are the reasons why this book stood out from most of the PR pack: 1. No goddamn Mary Sue MC2. Excellent world building3. AN ACTUAL FUCKING PLOT4. The message that it's okay to have sex with whoever the fuck you want to and you don't have to feel guilty about it. HALLE-FUCKING-LUJAH.
Between reading all 6 books of this series one after another, forgetting to get up in the morning to go to work (i don't know does it count as forgetting, if you have 4 alarms and you don't hear any of them because you were awake reading till 5.40 am and had to get up at 8) and then realising it makes more sense to stay home and read until all the books are over, i think I've lost perspective on other important things in life.
The book was better than the blurb described it to be.This one is about a bitchy smart mouthed werewolf Riley who works for the Directorate which is an agency that looks at all the non-human affairs.
She a dhampire (funky name, Yes) which is a cross breed between a Werewolf and a vampire.
Riley Jenson gets a fairly decent introduction, where she saves a bunch of humans from vampires despite the fact that she is utterly terrified.
Believable.And then the entire book goes to hell.Instead of focusing on the fact that her twin is missing for the first half of the novel, Riley puts on a brave face and gets on with the day-to-day.
Why isn't she taking off the heads of people getting in her way to find him?
My issue is with the, er, three (?) times Riley was forced to have sex because she was drugged/kidnapped/on a mission.
Despite 300-odd pages in her POV, I don't know Riley.
This is not a great book. It's a little like porn for the ladies, lots of "down there" hormones working over time. I did like the character enough to pick up all of them, I'm in a pretty trashy mood, but not the first Urban Fantasy series I'd recommend. I do have to say her writing gets better and better as the series goes on, much less clumsy, so I'll be sticking with this series!
I tried this, the first Riley Jensen novel by Keri Arthur, but couldn't get into it- I'm realizing I'm really not a huge fan of Urban Fantasy. I need a Happily Ever After with one hero/heroine to root for- the bed hopping ala Laurel K. Hamilton's Anita Blake series makes me insane and this story was stacking up the same way.I also had a hard time connecting with Riley. So-passing on this series. DNF
This review was originally posted on Addicted To Romance In Full Moon Rising, Riley Jenson along with her brother, are what considered half breeds. Riley is half vampire and half werewolf. But her werewolf side is dominant from her vampire side. Riley despises vampires, and it still boggles her mind about what her brother Rhoan does. He works for the Melbourne’s Directorate of Other Races, this organization is basically the police force for supernatural creatures. But when Rhoan goes missing on
In Full Moon Rising, Riley Jenson along with her brother, are what considered half breeds.
Riley is half vampire and half werewolf.
Riley despises vampires, and it still boggles her mind about what her brother Rhoan does.
But who she really craves is Quinn, the vampire that heats her blood like none other.In Full Moon Rising I was highly impressed with this story.
What I enjoyed the most was Quinn and Riley and seeing the beginning's of their relationship.
I really liked Riley as the main feature of the story.
wake me panting o.O*grin*Full Moon Rising is the first book in the Riley Jenson Guardian series; therefore I will be giving you details about what I have come to know thus far...
Hey it happens!Not often.But it does!Riley Jenson, a half-breed of werewolf and vampire, the twin to the badass Guardian, Rhoan ...
A vampire warned and warning Riley to keep her distance, and a handful of potential hot and dripping sexy lovers that quite honestly ..
as it is taking time away from reading!)This book takes off with a BANG ..
You do not even have to read 5 pages before being seduced into Riley's world ..
Ugh.Seriously, ugh.This reads like an Anita Blake novel, very late in the series when things had devolved into constant sex with only a thin approximation of plot.
This entire novel was about how bad Riley needed sex, who she was going to get it from, and if she didn't get it soon, bad things were going to happen.
If the sentence "I didn't really want him to touch me, but the way I was burning right now, I might have no choice" (or something similar) occurred less than 20 times in this book, I'd be shocked.
Literally everything in this book was about her need for sex.
In terms of the plot?
Seriously, WTF?
Aw, la mia Riley – MIA ♥ Questa Donna con la D maiuscola continua tutt'oggi a essere la mia eroina, il mio modello da seguire: è forte, indipendente e ferma nelle sue convinzioni.ADORO la natura dei lupi descritta da Keri Arthur: sono focosi e profondamente leali alla loro specie, vivono appieno ogni loro irrefrenabile desiderio e si accoppiano senza remore durante la danza della luna (perché non sono nata lupa?!) Ogni lupo può scegliere di avere più compagni, ma quando troverà la sua anima gemella e griderà il suo nome alla luna, giurerà di essere fedele a lei soltanto e si legherà a lei per la vita.
If you took Underworld and mixed it in a pitcher with Laurell K Hamilton's Anita Blake series, then threw in a slew of references to his bulging manhood heat and several ice cubes of "for all intents and purposes" which every character said at least once (I dislike phrases repeated over and over again) then you've got this book.
If you want a lot of werewolf free sex/rape action by/on a really stupid heroine then this is the book for you!
While Riley did wise up at the end, at the beginning you just want to slap her for her "What like, one glass of champagne doesn't make someone pass out?
Apparently she makes the comment that she can't hold her (1) glass of "fancy champagne." Jesus werewolf lady.
I know a lot of people think Riley is a ho, but I’m going stand my ground and say that I really liked her!
I’ve read plenty of Urban Fantasy books before this and not all of the heroines grabbed my attention like Riley did.
Riley has a lot of sex in this book, but they’re short scenes that are not as explicit as I initially thought it would be, given that others called her the next Anita Blake.
The only prolonged, explicit love scenes are between Riley and Quinn, her love interest.
I’m interested to read more about him and Riley.
I liked Riley as a character. The mystery was semi-interesting, although I figured it out before we were supposed to know. I enjoyed the other characters taht were introduced -- of course Quinn I really liked. I understand the whole pull of the moon and the fever, but I felt it was too much of a focuse for the story. It actually got old. I have heard this phases out with the books as the series progresses, I hope it does. I do plan on reading #2 Kissing Sin, but not right away.
I am doing a happy squeal right now because I loved this book!
One of my favorite things about this book is Riley Jenson.
She had all of the snark that Cat has and can kick butt, but she is also a little slutty and definitely compelling and fun like Georgina.
Her sluttiness would bother me if it wasn’t for the fact that it ties into the Paranormal story.
Quinn was a great hero as well.
I think this is going to be a great series.
I tend to like the Happily Ever Afters in my Paranormal Romances.
And the best part: a lot of bad shit happened to her but she never stopped being awesome.So, onto the story!The aforementioned Riley is as I said - half vampire & half were.
Which comes in handy when someone is trying to kill you.
Some of which were predicted (view spoiler)[It was pretty obvious that Talon was trying to impregnate her before the big reveal (hide spoiler)] and some of which I did not see coming (view spoiler)[.
I'm planning on continuing the series after this re-read.Original Review:Reading this was kind of like watching an action movie on basic cable -- it served its purpose and was moderately interesting, but it was kind of forgettable after finishing.
It kept my attention while reading it, I liked most of the characters, and the mystery was something that managed to pull a bit of curiosity from my overworked brain.
I plan to continue the series, but I am not desperate to acquire the entire series in the next few hours the way I feel after finishing some other books.
I would be more likely to call this way oversexed urban fantasy.The writing is average, the story pretty good, and the characters are interesting if not a little underdeveloped.
It's kind of like the writer created this really interesting urban fantasy world, filled with creatures and mythology that fans of the genre will love, and then thought hmm...
I'm about halfway through the third book, and still no romance, and the writing keeps getting worse bit by bit, but the overall story keeps getting better and better, so if you're an urban fantasy fan, you will probably really enjoy this series.
But she will have to control her urges if she’s going to find her brother….Easier said than done as the city pulses with frenzied desire, and Riley is confronted with a very powerful–and delectably naked–vamp who raises her temperature like never before.In matters carnal, Riley has met her match.
The rating is more like 3 1/2 stars as opposed to four, but I am intrigued enough to find out what's really going on with this clones/halfbreeds mess, so I will continue on.I'm not sure how I feel about Riley as a heroine, yet.
One evening Riley senses he is in trouble, and when she reaches her home she finds a very attractive, very naked vampire on her doorstep, his memory patchy, but determined to wait for her brother to return.This is only the start of a very deep mystery involving genetic research, cloning, moon fever, shape-shifting, sex, drugs and a Dhampire (Riley) who can seriously kick some arse.
I do get annoyed at the way certain words and spelling are changed into American English for US editions - and why change some, like mobile (cell phone) and jumper (sweater), and leave others, like rubbish bin?
Ok - I originally rated this book 3 stars, but I find myself having to raise it to 4.
I've never seen so much sex in a book that passes itself off as Urban Fantasy.
And, seriously, as much as I'd like to classify this as erotica, the plot is really more important than the sex.
But, Riley has sex with anyone and everyone.
Ms. Arthur sets up all this sex by establishing the werewolves in this series as *needing* sex during the full moon.
And, then sets the first book during the full moon, of course.
This book has been sitting in my TBR pile for ages.
I finally picked it up and I have to say I really enjoyed it, even with the almost constant sexual overtones in the book.Now I like my nookie in my paranormals as much as the next girl.
If you prefer to keep it to yearning and chaste kisses these are so NOT the books you want to be reading.
If you haven’t started this series, don’t wait like I did, do yourself a much deserved favor and read this book!
Personally, that's a big character fault and many readers who didn't like this first book stated that it was one of those PNR tropes where the magic of the world is developed so that the lead HAS to have sex.
Then I was blown away!Riley is a great lead, a werewolf/vampire half breed.
What I'm saying is that Riley likes sex, she's not ashamed of it and I enjoy reading about a woman that is comfortable with her sexuality.
Arthur has talent and she's clearly not going to let those tired old plot tricks most authors love to use muck up her book.
I really like how she started this book.
Keri Arthur has her series interesting and sexy with some horror.
Rhoan is a guardian and as much as her boss Jack wants Riley to be one, she wants to keep herself low brow.
Riley is a strong, funny redhead halfbread who has someone targeting her as prey.Synopsis:Arthur's suspenseful, colorful debut introduces readers to a world in which vampires and werepeople work side by side.
All in all, I really love this book.
All in all, I really love this book.
The whole series is a favorite of mine, as is anything Keri Arthur does.
I hate that moon heat premise has Riley in constant heat.
Don't get me wrong, I like steamy scenes in my books, I prefer books to have them but when they're just thrown in for the sake of having them, and not contributing towards the story, then they're not necessary.
Her attitude towards Quinn (the hero) is hypocritical.
And, for once, can someone not be a millionaire?
Every guy interested in the heroine is a millionaire, well hung, and incredibly good looking.
Granted, I don't want to read a steamy scene with Quasimodo but at least have some semblance of normalcy.
I liked this book, but the only reason I didn't give it more stars was because I didn't really like how the werewolves were portrayed in the story. I found it slightly annoying that the characters kept bringing up moon fever, and how they are basically slaves to lust every full moon. But I wasn't that annoyed that I didn't enjoy the book, and I will read the next one because Riley is an intriguing character.
DNF at 59% (view spoiler)[ No real plot for me to follow. The characters are having sex at the weirdest times that make so sense, like while invading a secure compound to rescue someone. And don't even get me started on Talon. UGH. (hide spoiler)]
A very good dark fantasy series. Great lead character, a mouthy half-werewolf/half-vampire. Good mystery that kept me interested. Billed as a romance series and has a lot of sexual situations, but not especially erotic.
I read the first four books back-to-back and here are some observations:1) Riley doesn't seem to have a lot of common sense/street smarts.
She's intelligent, but she makes a lot of questionable decisions and trusts way too easily.
2) There's a lot of sex in this book, but I wouldn't consider it an erotic romance.
It may be because I read them back-to-back, but it ended up feeling like one, long drug out story, rather than a continuing story-arc I wanted to keep reading.
After binge-reading four books, I'm not sure i want to continue the series.
