https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/9395215-everlasting
After finally getting this book and finishing it, my mind was souring with happiness and actually told me: Thank you.
You finally had the change to have the fucking of your life and you wasted it away!!ARRRRRGHHH!!!!Okay, she found the tree(even though Roman's army got there first), took the fruit and .
*audience groans* She really wants spiritual immortality even if it means that they're not immortal anymore.Then, Damen does the whining version of solving their problems(which he had done already): Stop talking to her.How charming.A party later, the Loony introduces the immortal army of Roman to get a taste of the Fruit.
After talking, Damen and Ever finally bit down the fruit, and TA-DA!!
Thank God this series is over!
i cant wait to read this but i think im the only one who is devastated that this is the last bookAfter Reading I was kinda hoping for like some kinda twist to make up for the drag but ....i guess there kind of was ..... but still it was really predictable everyone knew that they were going to find the antidote and live happily ever after and stuff.... all in all i guess it was a good book ...im sad (and relieved) its over .
I thought that Night Star is the last. And I wish it is. ugh! _________Whats with the crappy cover? [groan!] anyway, Im glad that they gonna find that damn antidote, and go in some expensive Hotel and you know whats next. LOL And the story will come to an end. thats the BEST part right?
I give this book 2 starsBefore Reading it:I added this because the cover is soooo prettty!!!
:D Hope the end is better than the rest of the series.
I must be honest:I have to admit that I skim read most of this book, I got bored at the beginning and when we had to go back in time and listen to all that stuff about Ever being Adelina or whatever I wanted to gouge my eyes out with a spork.
:/ I honestly don't know why I read as much as I did.Fruit>???????????
;) And if I had a choice I would choose Ever and Roman together.I really wanted this book to be better.

I think I can sum up the whole series with this: It's about two people who will do everything in their power to have sex.It was a waste of time, space, paper, money, and every other thing you can think of. It's an embarrassment to YA literature, and that's me putting it lightly.See my full review of the whole series over at my blog.
I hate it when people say horrible things about author's work.
No wonder why new writers don't want to come out with their ideas because it's people who say mean things about their ideas.
I think all people who have said something horrible about this series or any other books should say sorry because it's just pathetic doing it.
I think the story lines (that I've heard so many pathetic people) are great.
I can't wait to finish the series and I think Alyson Noel is a great writer!
:DWrite on Alyson!
i can't believe i'm adding this but oh god, another one?!damn. i thought Night Star was the last one.i'm already zoning out when i read this series since Blue Moon. God! I'm going to zone out reading this and have to re-read it again just so i can get the point!thank God this is the last one! I'm already dying because i have to get Night Star, i don't know what i'd do if there was a 7th book...Ever is seriously testing my patience with this series
Ok idk if it was my exciment for this to be over or if it was legit good but this was my favorite one of the series. 4.5 stars
The concept of being immortal, spending centuries fighting for love is perfect for the romantic at heart which we all know I am.
While there was still a few completely unexpected twists in Everlasting it's pace felt a little slower or maybe that is because we know a happy ending is in sight.....or is it?A lot of my difficulty with this series has been with the character but I felt you could really see how much Ever has grown in this final installment.
"What the hell just happened?" Can't believe I liked this series once..
"Will they be united-or torn apart forever?"They both die. The end.
Thank you Alyson Noel for creating this wonderful series! I am so happy to have made this journey and am sad that it is over. Hopefully theres a movie comming out in the near future? hmmmm
Her relationship with Damen and her friend's, Miles and Haven was sincere and the way she dealt with High School enemies was more or less ordinary.
In the end she is tricked by a rogue immortal named Roman into giving Damen a cure containing her blood.
In this book Ever and Damen learn of the Shadowland, the place where those without a soul lay to rest.
In the end he almost kills Haven (a character which I didn't like anyway) but surprise, surprise give's Ever the option to save her and turn her into an immortal.
In the end Jude ruins Ever's chance to get the antidote by killing roman.
After so long, it's over. It's finally over. Me and the Immortals series are officially:  For all that I have loathed about this series, it has been full of lulz of which nothing can compare. The Immortals series is so dull, so bland and so uncreative that it is offensive in an entertaining way. Yes, despite it all, these books have entertained me. I enjoyed Roman, pitied Romey and Rain, rooted for Drina and wanted to punch Haven/Ever & Damon. Despite all the crap, these books did not fill m
Me and the Immortals series are officially: 
For all that I have loathed about this series, it has been full of lulz of which nothing can compare.
The Immortals series is so dull, so bland and so uncreative that it is offensive in an entertaining way.
Yes, despite it all, these books have entertained me.
Despite all the crap, these books did not fill me with rage or even offend me on a serious level: it was just too lulzy for me to stop.
However, all good things must come to an end and I can happily say that this series ended the way it began: with a yawn.
Well that was a long journey just so they could have sex... xD
man, another book?
at least this is the final..Evermore was okay.
it was a fun read although not the type that gives me tingles..Blue Moon gave me tingles alright, but not the one that i prefer.
there wasn't much of Ever and Damen.
it just hurt me.i didn't even read Shadowland and Dark Flame.
just read the ending.
i'd probably just read the last chapter.although i am looking forward to Everlasting.
so, i hope this salvages the last books.
and i hope Ever's character improves from being a reckless spoilt whiner to someone who can actually help and make Damen happy.
3.5/5Full review soon on the blog! :)
I am going to read it only because I can't not finish the series, but really the series has been way to dragged out!
Just- just don't.B. You have read the book, and just generally want to sympathize with other tortured readers.
For the people who don't fall into any of these categories, because you read it, and actually liked it, I apologize if I offend your taste in literature, and also that I follow the many, many people who wrote reviews that generally elaborate on the serie's suckiness.For the purpose of this review, I will be targeting all the books in 1 shot, so bear with me.
So I decided around a year ago, that I should reread the whole series (4 books at the time) before reading the 5th.
So I didn't read the 4th and won't read the 5th, but I think I might actually read this last book just so I can know how this ends!I've always had a problem with not finishing series, and I thought I had finally cut the cord on this one.
(At least I didn't read the 4th and 5th, I probably would DESPISE this series then.)That being said, this book wasn't that terrible.
I did like the ending, however, and am actually happy that I read it and I know what happened.I am so glad I can officially shelve this series.
i liked this book better than all the others becuasae ever was finally the kick butt heroaine, that finally made the RIGHT decisions. also Damen was more of a character with emotions and decisions instead of a pawn.
Omg. Another one? I can't stand this series anymore. I'm soo glad its finally going to be over. NO MORE EVER and her REPEATED MISTAKES :D :D:D !!! :)
Damen, on the other hand, is manipulative and one of those crazy anti sex devices they put in teen fiction - we get it Noel: sex = disaster, so don't do it kids.
But isn't this all a bit familiar, didn't Myer go through this whole, woe betide anyone who has sex thing, with the Bella, Edward, Jacob chastity triangle?
I can pretty much guess how it will end, the curse will be lifted and Ever will FINALLY have sex with her true love Damen, yawn.
Teenage fiction should reflect the teenage spirit, which although at times is mopey, is mostly spontaneous, rather than monotonous/ monogamous.
What an amazing way to conclude one of my favourite series. Everlasting is a fast paced, action packed beautiful ending and conclusion to the immortals series. I'm surprised to say that I'm not sad that the series is finally at the end. When I finished reading Last Sacrifice (Vampire Academy #6), I was sad that I wouldn't ever read another book by Richelle Mead written from Rose's POV, yet I was excited for bloodlines. It's been an awesome journey, and the immortals will always have a place in my heart. Go Alyson Noel!!
This really was a great end to an otherwise frustrating journey...
So glad to see Ever grow up and become a mature young adult...
I like the direction this one took, going a more serious and deep route...
Enlightenment, journey of the soul, eternal life in the spiritual sense...
Very deep stuff...
I can relate to alot of that myself in my own life...
I think it's very inspiring to put this out there for the Young Adults to read and maybe make some serious changes for the better in their own lives...
Great job Alyson...
Look forward to reading more of your work...
Omg how painful it was to read this book!!!
So long and the plot was the same as all the other five books!!
I can't believe she had them not talk to each other AGAIN .
They had a period of not talking to each other in all 6 books now come on!!
I own all 6 books and was contemplating on donating them to the library but I would hate to have someone get sucked into this horrible series like I was ..a fate worse than going to the dentist for a filling 6 times ..
Good lord what a waste of time
I HAVE READ THEM ALL,AND LOVE THEM!!!AND NOW I CAN'T WAIT FOR "everlasting"!!!!!
If Ever and Damon don't end up together I will be sooooooo pissed......*********************** REAL REVIEW *****************************Alas, the Immortals series has ended. I admit, i sat in Barnes and Nobel for 2 hours and read this book, but still. This book is probably my second favorite in the series (after the first) I liked how Ever grew and when she finally makes her own decisions without having screwing everything up. And finally someone was blamed for the bad karma, mainly her man but, hey. It all worked out. Needless to say...I'm not pissed XD
