https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/3765.Octopussy_the_Living_Daylights
(B+) 76% | GoodNotes: James Bond, in each episode, searches for people: to apprehend, to identify, to shoot and to warn, with mixed results.
Reread this book after such a long time. This was my first brush with the iconic British spy in a book written by the creator, Ian Fleming. I had read a Bond novel by John Gardener earlier though.The edition I have contains the following three stories• Octopussy• The Living Daylights• The Property of a LadySome editions feature an additional story - 007 IN NEW YORK. I wish my edition included this one.In these stories you will get to accompany Bond on his missions across the globe: Jamaica, West
I had read a Bond novel by John Gardener earlier though.The edition I have contains the following three stories•	Octopussy•	The Living Daylights•	The Property of a LadySome editions feature an additional story - 007 IN NEW YORK.
Octopussy has been condensed into a dialogue in the movie and while The Property of the Lady became a scene.
The story would be part of the beginning scene in the movie adaption featuring Timothy Dalton as Bond.The book also has some illustrations which use dots to create profiles of weapons, cars among others.
Ian Fleming passed away in 1964 and Octopussy and The Living Daylights was published posthumously in 1966 after Fleming had taken the world by storm, introducing us to his master spy James Bond.The 14th and final Bond book by originator Fleming, this follows the 1960 publication of For Your Eyes Only as a collection of short stories.
James Bond, as written by Ian Fleming, is much more human and vulnerable, often struggling with the moral dilemmas of taking lives for the service of his country.
None are very interesting.1.) OCTOPUSSYThis is a short story about a man, living in Jamaica, who stole some Nazi gold during the war.
Again, we are confronted by Fleming's belief that ugly people are prone to turn to evil because they feel slighted and inadequate.3.) THE LIVING DAYLIGHTSBond travels to Berlin in order to murder a sniper who is planning to kill a British agent.
Bond also shows mercy on a woman in this story.4.) 007 IN NEW YORKBond travels to New York in order to warn a British woman that her boyfriend is KGB.
And, of course, there is Smythe's famous Octopussy, his pet name for the giant Octopus living in the coral reef off of his bungalow who ends up having a surprising role to play in the story.The Portrait of a Lady was only worthy of note for me because here Bond is a much more laid back character.
The Living Daylights has a much more serious tone throughout and I actually loved Bond in this piece more than the other short stories and even the previous two books that I read in the series.
A collection of four short stories. Two share titles with James Bond movies, but the substance is nothing like the subject matter of the stories. Will review more later.
The reader doesn't learn much about Bond in this tale, although Fleming does humanize the agent a bit by having Bond reveal his personal reason for bringing Smythe to justice.
In all, a very winning tale, only bits of which survived in the 1987 film "The Living Daylights," mainly in the character of Kara Milovy, the unnamed cellist in Fleming's story.The "Octopussy" collection concludes with "The Property of a Lady," which first appeared in "The Ivory Hammer" (a publication of Sotheby's auction house), of all places; it was later reprinted in "Playboy" magazine.
Ian Fleming shows that the James Bond adventures work equally well in the short story format. While not perhaps on such an epic scale as other 007 tales all three episodes are written with Fleming's superb journalistic style.
So, when I think of James Bond, I think of this super-spy guy who solves his missions by killing enemies, while getting all the dangerous, beautiful women.As such, this collection came as a bit of a surprise.
The first story, Octopussy, is the best in the bunch, I think - it's about WWII and James Bond does very little in it, but it's fun to hear the bad guy tell us all about how he committed a crime.
By the time he's supposed to do his job, the short, short story (shorter than the others) ends, mercifully never even coming to the actual plot, but containing a recipe for James Bond scrambled eggs nonetheless.
I feel like that's cheating.)This is an exceptionally short book, even with both stories together.
The movie involves some clowns and some acrobats and neither of those things make an appearance in the book.
The best is the ending - very vivid, which goes back to what I was saying yesterday after reading For Your Eyes Only - Fleming really seems to blossom in his short stories in ways that he did not in his novels.
I might revisit this review once we do reach that movie.I should mention that these short stories are the last two Bond books Fleming wrote.
These stories are from the '60s and were more introspective and character based than I expected from a "James Bond" novel.
I bought it because I enjoy the sound of Tom Hiddleston's voice-- I'd listen to him read the phone book.He was excellent.
He changes the tone of voice, and intonations for each character.
And, if you like interesting short tales of espionage, mystery and a little bit of angst about how it feels to be told you're going to kill someone tomorrow-- and really not being given a choice in that-- just that it's your duty.
A posthumous collection of the remaining Bond short stories: "Octopussy", "The Property of a Lady", "The Living Daylights" and "007 in New York". Having read this far it would be a shame not to complete the set...
I really do enjoy the Bond short stories because in the absence of broad-reaching plots and numerous characters, Fleming gives us insight into the character that's difficult to convey on film.Octopussy took me by the greatest surprise as it has nothing at all to do with the film bearing its name (although the film did happily borrow significant elements from The Property of a Lady and Moonraker), and indeed added more fuel for Spectre than anything.
Unfortunately he didn't live long enough to see his beloved character hit the bigtime; but word has it most of what he wrote came from his own life as a jet-setting, suave intelligence officer.This is my first taste of Bond, and the four short stories or 'scraps' as I came to see them, was a nice introduction to Fleming's work.
'Property of a Lady' transported me to the elegant auction rooms of Sotheby's, when a rare Faberge egg would take you back £100'000 and 'The Living Daylights' of the days when Germany had an East and a West and a border like no-man's land that still reeked of the dregs of Hitler's threat.Bond stories are not so much about the intrigue, the flashy cars (you get to read about one in this book), the women or the spoils of spydom.
The final book in the original Bond series consists of three short stories.
The least interesting as a story was the one about Bond eyeing bidders in an auction.
This reads like Fleming was doing a kind of product placement story highlighting the action and intrigue of a fine arts auction.
I like a Bond who worries, gets pissed off, and blows off steam.As this is the final Fleming Bond book in the series, and I’ve now read them all, I feel the need to reflect.
Overall, I found the Bond books interesting in how they are not like the movies which are oh so familiar.
James Bond started out as a literary character and soon turned into a movie franchise, becoming a “pop culture” icon in the process.
I now realise that this slim volume of four posthumously published short stories are quite atypical of the Bond oeuvre and possibly not the best introduction to Fleming’s work.
In “Octopussy”, Bond is almost a marginal presence, with the real protagonist being the “villian”, one Major Dexter Smythe.
In other words, The Living Daylight is a little gem, on the strength of which I’ll be happy to give Bond another chance.
The best thing that this audiobook has going for it is narrator Tom Hiddleston, who does a divine reading.SERIES IN REVIEWAlthough the James Bond series has not aged particularly well, it was still fun to experience the books doled out over the past 14 months, with audiobook serving as the perfect format.
I'm not particularly interested in reading a continuation of the character by other authors as I would prefer to stick to creator Fleming's version.BEST BOOK: Casino Royale gets the series off to a roaring start.
On Her Majesty's Secret Service features interesting character development for Bond.WORST BOOK: The Spy Who Loved Me, hands down.
The other day I came across this audiobook of James Bond short stories narrated by Tom Hiddleston.I was like, well hello there.Had no idea that he did this!
I was happy to see that two of the three he narrated happened to be a couple of my favorite Bond movies, “Octopussy” and “The Living Daylights”.
But after I got over my initial surprise and pushed the movie out of my head, I settled right down into the story and got caught up in it.Next was “The Property of a Lady”, which actually turned out to be my favorite of the trio.
This audio book includes the novella Octopussy as well as three other James Bond stories.
I look forward to hearing him read other books.It probably wasn't a good idea to start with the very last, posthumous collection of Bond adventures.
However, it does inspire me to try other Bond books.THE LIVING DAYLIGHTS was my favorite story from this collection.
This story has a lot of detail and would make a great piece for a Bond film - very enjoyable.The last story, 007 IN NEW YORK, was my least favorite of the collection, not the least because it wasn't read by Tom Hiddleston.
He reads at a slightly slower pace than I tend to like (I usually like narrators who don't pause and act out the characters' deliberations), but he injects a lot of personality in the readings and this collection is under 4 hours long.
I think each story in this collection highlights a different angle of James Bond.
I haven't seen or read a ton of James Bond, but it is easy to see some of the seriousness and depth to the character in Fleming's writing that I think to movies tend to gloss over with camp (well the bad ones anyway).
The character of Hannes Oberhauser, an Austrian climbing and skiing instructor who acted like a father to Bond, is also introduced.
Oberhauser features in the movie Spectre.The stories themselves are enjoyable and are some of the better Bond tales.
For example, Octopussy is a morality tale, with greed bringing repercussions years later to the main protagonist, Dexter Smythe (who seems to be modelled on Fleming himself).In The Living Daylights Bond's thoughts on killing are examined once again, showing that although 007 did not like doing it, he considered that he must as part of his duty to complete an assignment.
It’s amazing how little excitement there is within these four tales; indeed they all just drift aimlessly into each other.
So we have James Bond going to an auction in one story, and confronting a disgraced officer with a love of octopi in another.
And if you’ve read those vague descriptions of them, then you’ve pretty much read the whole thing.The highlight is certainly ‘The Living Daylights’, which does throw in some action and sexual frisson with its take on Bond as a hired killer.
Basically if the most exciting thing to happen in a story is Bond giving out a recipe for scrambled eggs, then something vital has got lost somewhere.
But it shows Flemings skill of description, but here it lacks his usual strength which makes boring stuff come alive.'Octopussy': This story is not a 007 adventure but more a tale of WOII where a soldier steals from the Nazi's.
( was mentioned in the movie "Octopussy')'The Living Daylights': The best story in the book, It is abouts 007's license to kill.
(Featured in the movie "The Living Daylights")'The Property of a Lady': Especially written for an auctionhouse, so that is what is the star in the movie.
(Featured in the movie Octopussy)For somebody who likes Flemings writing I would say it is recomended reading.
2 1/2 starsThis is one that I had forgotten about reading. I don't even know how I ended up reading it in the first place, but this is the only James Bond story I've read and from this story I gather that Ian Flemming's James Bond is a bit different from the one in the movies. The short story Octopussy is very different from the movie of the same name. Instead you get an okay action thriller without all of cheesiness that is the movie. That's not a bad thing, but I just thought it was a little dull.
I don't give a DAMN about James Bond, but I listened to this audio book, and Tom Hiddleston's voice is MAGIC and should be used for everything. He should record all the audio books, provide all the narration, make all the announcements, and replace Siri and her non-Apple kin. The world would be a better place.
not the best writing, but it does show a human side of Bond. Good afternoon read
As a short story, it's solid but suffers as ever from Fleming's rambling tangents.
Property Of A Lady (***) works a little better and shows Bond on a low stakes domestic mission that's a great time capsule of the Cold War. The use of an auction by the enemy is brilliant despite Fleming watering things down with too many snobbish details.
So maybe it's not fair to be so harsh on it but this is the worst Fleming Bond and I'm now glad it's not my last.
The mission is summed up in two to three lines after the fact and the story ends so abruptly I thought pages were torn out.
So listen, I was bored when a tutoring student didn't show up and plowed through this. It's pretty dumb.Octopussy is the name of an octopus that an old codger takes care of though, it's not a woman's name thank god.
I listened to the audiobook because Tom Hiddleston read it, and he does a fantastic job! I was pleasantly surprised by how much I enjoyed the stories themselves. I would recommend this.
Listened on audio: I'm giving it 3 stars for the stories, 5 stars for Tom Hiddleston's narration, for an average of 4 stars.
