https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/59821.Red_Lily
This was a very satisfying end to a very enjoyable trilogy. It was also a bit of a scary book as the household ghost started to step up her haunting and actually started possessing one of the main characters. Creepy! Nora Roberts is a very talented writer of romance. She must be because it is not one of my favourite genres but I can always enjoy one of her books. Especially when she adds in a bit of the supernatural. A good read and I am sorry I have finished the series.
Solid ending to the series. Some of the characters were a bit irritating and the plot sometimes drooped a bit, but all in all a good ghost story.  Hayley’s character was the most irritating at times. Her and Harper’s love story seemed to lack some of Nora’s usual depth, but still it was a good story. And I learned a lot about horticulture, so there’s that.
Probablemente influya en mi opinión personal los días tan estresantes en que lo he leído, lo he notado porque no le dedicaba tiempo ni me enganchaba, cosa que me parece una auténtica lástima, porque realmente quería que este libro me gustara más que los anteriores, no ha podido ser.Lo admito, tenía muchísimas ganas de esta historia, y mis expectativas eran altas: cierre de trilogía, unos protagonistas que me encantaban, juntos, por separado, de todas las maneras, los adoro a los dos, y la resolución final de lo que ocurrió con Amelia, pero ni con esas.
RED LILY is the story of Harper Ashby, oldest son of Rosalind (BLACK ROSE), and Hayley Phillips.
Hayley had come to Harper House the previous year, pregnant and alone, to beseech Roz, a distant cousin through marriage, for a job.
Now she has her daughter Lily, a great job, and a roof over her head, but lately she's been thinking of Harper, the man whose been her friend through it all, in a brand-new light--that of a love interest.
I loved this entire trilogy, and read RED LILY in one day.
But for me trilogies seem to hit the ground running and suck me right in, or it's a slower build when the groundwork is being laid and the characters are introduced.I felt the trilogy built on itself and got better and better with each story, and this was a very fulfilling conclusion.
Specifically to Book 3, Red Lily:I knew Hayley and Harper would make a great romantic match from their first meeting in Book 1.
The slow build of friends to lovers and Harper's complete love and acceptance or Hayley's daughter Lily was so sweet.
In this book, the rest of the secrets about the Harper Bride were revealed, but as to the romance, it felt like a rehash of things we already read in books 1 and 2.Hayley Phillips appeared at Harper House in “Blue Dahlia,” pregnant and alone in the world.
Hayley’s daughter Lily was born in the second book, and loves Harper like she would a daddy, so Hayley is fearful if she follows her feelings for Harper that everything will get messed up and she’ll have to leave her wonderful new home.
La verdad es que tenía muchas ganas de esta pareja y de este libro en general; uno, porque Hayley y Harper durante los dos libros anteriores me han gustado mucho tanto juntos como separados y dos, porque finalmente en este libro se resolvía el misterio de la Novia Harper, el fantasma que habitaba en la mansión y que hacía más malas obras que buenas.
A pesar de ser una historia sencilla y sin mucho más sobresaltos que un fantasma psicótico, me ha vuelto a enganchar a su pluma y a sus historias.
Hayley is Roz’s distant cousin from Little Rock, who packed up her life and moved after her dad passed away and she found herself “in trouble” from getting too cozy with a friend.
When she showed up on the doorstep of Harper House, she was six months pregnant and banking on family ties to give her and her baby a chance at a fresh start.
Hayley has built herself a life here, and a family.
Thankfully, something changes, and we get my favorite of the three romances that make up this series.We also get a lot more of our crazy, angry ghost.
by Nora Roberts4 Star TrilogyNora Roberts introduces 3 women whose lives become intertwined: Roz, the elegant 40 something Southern belle and owner of Harper House/In the Garden nursery and retail store; Stella, the 30 something mother and perfectionist Yankee is manager of In the Garden: while Hayley is the pregnant 20 something distant cousin of Roz and also works at In The Garden.
Could the Bride-always benign in the past-hurt Stella by harming her boys and Logan?The Black Rose is Roz's story, though Stella and Hayley are still living at Harper House.
Probably 3.5 stars on this one. The ghost story kept ramping up through each book, and in this one it moves into possession. I enjoyed the main characters but felt the ending was a little abrupt, maybe even a little flat after all that buildup. And I did kind of hope David would end up with someone, too. Review to come.
It was so nice to be back with these characters, and what a great way to end the trilogy. I loved the ghost aspect of this series and couldn't wait to see how it ended. I'm very pleased. I love Nora's writing and her friendships. She clearly knows what a positive relationship and friendship looks like.
Red Lily by Nora Roberts is book 3 of a series.
A young premed student helped with her loss but unfortunately left her pregnant.
When she went to confront the baby's dad, he had met the love of his life and she decided to do all by herself.
When Hayley had the baby she named her Lily.
The resident ghost Amelia became active.
Harper helped Hayley a lot with the baby.
Harper is Roz's oldest son.
Lily loves Harper.
Amelia, the ghost, possesses Hayley's body.
Roz's husband Mitch is researching the ghost.
Hayley is rather smitten with Harper.
She takes manners in her own hands and kisses Harper.
I only enjoyed the first book in the series, the rest were not very good.I really hated the ghost story, I really didn't care for it, it was boring.
I did enjoy the first book because the ghost was a secondary element in it, but in the 2nd and 3rd book it was mentioned too much.And about the romance, it never did develop correctly, I felt most of the time like something was missing.
All the time I felt like actions were taking place but feeling and emotions were left as secondary elements, you never get to know the characters.
A very satisfying end to the In the Garden trilogy.
I liked his quiet, introspective ways, as well as his lean, hot sexiness, of course.
My one regret about this trilogy is that we didn't get a romance for David, Harper's best friend, Roz's right hand man and housekeeper and the best cook and babysitter alive.
*grin* Yeah, I'd like Nora to be writing a little bit of gay romance.
So, looking for a fun and sexy romantic trilogy with fun heroines and sexy heroes and lots of terrific dialogue and hot sex scenes?
Give the In the Garden trilogy a try.
Oh, Nora Roberts of the swoony heroes; you got me with  Red Lily . ::: The Plot :::We first meet Hailey in the first book of the In the Garden Trilogy, Blue Dahlia, when she shows up at Roz's (the heroine of the second book in the series) house -- a distant cousin related by marriage in the way only old Southern families seem to keep track of -- pregnant, alone, and looking for work. We've known from the first book that Harper, Roz's oldest son and the one who shares her love of gardening and wo
. ::: The Plot :::We first meet Hailey in the first book of the In the Garden Trilogy, Blue Dahlia, when she shows up at Roz's (the heroine of the second book in the series) house -- a distant cousin related by marriage in the way only old Southern families seem to keep track of -- pregnant, alone, and looking for work.
, Hailey is occupied with being a new, single mother and adjusting to her new life working at the garden center and living in Roz's home.But as Hailey's feelings for Harper spark, so does her link to the house's resident ghost, Amelia, resulting in the creepiest of the three books, and a romance between the two that might be torn apart by the ghost herself.::: Hokey?
Red Lily was a very romantic book, but kinda freaky.
The romance goes on between Lilly and Harper and is a wonderful love story with a two year old in the middle.
I was disappointed that with all Nora Roberts research, she said that they found the Harper Bride that they were looking for in the 1890 Census.
The 1890 Census was lost in a fire and only certain places remain, and the place where the woman was found was not one of those remaining places.
I was very disappointed.

Rosalind es un pariente lejana de ella de forma política pero más allá de ser familia, Roz no podía dejar a esta mujer en la calle, le dio una casa donde vivir, un trabajo en el Vivero y un lugar donde encontrarse a así misma y criar a Lily.Dos años pasaron desde que Hayley llegó a la mansión Harper.
Así que después de dos años, Harper y Hayley deciden darse una oportunidad; es hermosa la historia romántica, Harper es un divino y un romántico, las cosas que hace me tuvieron suspirando buena parte del libro.
But what the reader got instead was a very over-drawn and labored ending to a story that didn't really exist in the character of focus: Hayley.
In  Blue Dahlia  we met the intriguing cast of characters in the series to include the infamous "Harper Bride" ghost lurking in the halls of Roz Harper's home.
Hayley's daughter Lily arrives in book two, and she latches onto Harper like he's her daddy putting Hayley in an awkward position - should she act on her feelings with Harper or snap his head off again - which is how she treats him for pretty much the entire trilogy.
Since Hayley has been my favorite of the three women of In the Garden, I'm sad I didn't like her book better.
And yes, he provides Hayley with love and unconditional support (when he isn't all autocratically unilateral and stuff).
Still, his fits of macho were off-putting and uncomfortable to me.Still and all, Roberts excels at showing the good in her characters, as well as their flaws, and the story was entertaining enough to grab and hold my attention despite those things I didn't like.
slutty mistress is then booted out the door and the book then jumps to the present.Now we meet a young lady named Hayley who recently quit her job to move into the Harper's home to raise her baby Lily and mooch off the Harper's.
Again, we should all be so lucky.Roberts starts the book assuming we know these people and I'm left confused about a lot of things.
Not all of us can keep up with the prolific Nora Roberts, you know!As I read along things began to make more sense.
La protagonista no me cae tan bien como Roz, la del libro anterior, pero la trama tiene un cariz interesante al centrarse más en el fantasma que habita la casa y en su trágica historia.
Me gusta que la autora no haga de ella una víctima total, sino que la vemos con perspectiva, como no todo es blanco y negro.La relación amorosa una vez más ha ido muy rápido, todo se ha precipitado y no estoy muy de acuerdo con algunos de los hechos, pero en fin.
Sin duda volveré a leer novelas de esta autora, pero espero encontrarme con historias donde la relación amorosa me convenza más y no se vea tan precipitada.
This was, by far, my favorite book of the trilogy!
(I called that way back in book #1, by the way)The wrap up of the Harper Bride was unexpected and thrilling.
I could not put the book (Kindle) down and that is exactly how a good mystery should be!
This trilogy as a whole was a very enjoyable read although a bit predictable in the romance category.
I will continue to read Nora Roberts books to try out other series but I continue to say that, so far, JD Robbs romances are more titillating and realistic to me.
I have just finished listening to this. The third in the Garden trilogy. It was very good and I gave it five stars because the narrator was great. Nora Roberts of course did her usual great story.
I have read and enjoyed every book from Nora Roberts. She is one of my favorite authors!! The Garden Trilogy was very good, some love, some romance and a bunch of mystery.
Love this series. Present day setting-three single women brought together by circumstances and how they each find friendship and love. Ghost story intertwined.
The last in this series, I felt that the ghost story took over which in turn took something away from Hayley's and Harper's story.
The other two books had enough about these two to give you a sense of where they were headed, but I would have liked it if the second half of the book had been as much about them as the first half.
There were a few loose ends that I would have preferred to see tied off, like the willow tree that Harper planted, but at least we got to see Jane again briefly, which was great.
I found the wrap-up too fast and slick and would have liked a bit more detail.
Nun habe ich den dritten und letzten Teil zu Ende gelesen.
Hier nimmt die Geschichte um den Geist nochmal richtig Fahrt auf.
Die Idee, dass Nora Roberts hier etwas Übernatürliches eingebaut hat, finde ich sehr gut.
Gerade hier im dritten Band tritt er öfters zutage als in den anderen Teilen.
Das hat mir gut gefallen.Hayley und Harper sind auch ein wunderbares Paar.
Mir hat die Geschichte mit den beiden sehr gut gefallen.
Allgemein fand ich, dass das Thema jetzt recht gut zur Jahreszeit passt, weil der Schauplatz ein großes Anwesen mit Gartencenter ist.
Das war jetzt besonders schön, weil auch momentan draußen alles zu blühen beginnt.
Este año es el de las sensaciones encontradas con los libros. Definitivamente este se trata más de Harper como protagonista y de Amelia como su sombra. Hayley no es mas que un conducto en la historia, aunque sea la pareja. Cosa rara.-Por momentos se hace bastante tedioso, aunque en los capitulos finales resurge la historia, entre el casamiento de Harper y Hayley y el final de la historia de Amelia.-Es una lastima haber tenido tantas ilusiones con este libro y que no haya cumplido las expectativas. Pero finalmente estuvo bien.-
Mooi afgerond einde van deze trilogie. Zoals vaker bevatte ook deze serie goed uitgewerkte karakters en voldoende romantiek met een vleugje spiritualiteit e/o magie... in dit geval de rusteloze, treurende, rancuneuze en waanzinnige geest van de ruim 100 jaar geleden overleden maîtresse van destijds de heer des huizes.
