https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/146122.Cigars_of_the_Pharaoh
Pursuing the mystery of these cigars, they travel across Arabia and India, and reveal the secrets of an international drug smuggling enterprise.تاریخ نخستین خوانش: سال 1976 میلادیعنوان: سیگارهای فرعون؛ نویسنده و تصویرگر: هرژه؛ مترجم: اسمردیس؛ مشخصات نشر: تهران، انتشارات ونوس، 1354، در 62 ص، مصور رنگی، ماجراهای تن تن خبرنگار جوان، موضوع: داستانهای فکاهی مصور بلژیک قرن 20 معنوان: سیگارهای فرعون؛ نویسنده و تصویرگر: هرژه؛ مترجمان: رایحه اندیشه؛ مشخصات نشر: تهران، رایحه اندیشه، 1380، در 64 ص، مصور رنگی، ماجراهای تن تن خبرنگار جوان، شابک: 9649380051؛ چهارمین کتاب از مجموعهٔ کتابهای مصور ماجراهای تن‌ تن و میلو است.
Here's a well-done constructed Tintin's adventure. Full of rhythm, we visit many places, (including India & Egypt). And unlike previous volumes, the adventure has a real interest.We are no longer at Tintin au Congo. Here, we're plunged into the heart of a large-scale drug trafficking. So, as always it is approached with lots of humour, some facilities at times, but we find all that we love in The Adventures of Tintin and even if it still lacks some cult figures, the optics of the adventurer as we know him already appears.
My M.O.S.T fave of the lot!This one never gets old, no matter the innumerable times I'v read it :)All the stars to my first ever and one of the most favorite book sleuths and his best sidekick, ever!
آقا روحیهی کودکانهم کاملا نابود شده. :(حتی از تنتن در اون حد لذت نمیبرم. :-گریه
آقا روحیه‌ی کودکانه‌م کاملا نابود شده. :(حتی از تن‌تن در اون حد لذت نمی‌برم. :-گریه
You know you want to.
It's Tintin.
The guy every kid wants to be.
The guy you grow up to be.
I even had the same dog.The guy in my corner shop was the absent minded professor and my dad's mate was Captain Haddock.The artwork is awesome and the stories are intriguing and full of mystery.
I confess I've read the whole series and loved every minute of them.
This was a time before social media when a kid could let his imagination run away with him.And if you love the book there are also cartoon versions of them.
The first of Tintin's full length adventures4 February 2012 This is the story where Tintin comes on his own. While it was still written in a serialised form when it first appeared back in 1934, this story has a proper story arc where Tintin stumbles on a sophisticated drug smuggling ring that stretches across the entire Eurasian continent. It is here that Tintin's companions begin to be developed (namely the Thompson twins) and we also begin to see Tintin going on real adventures and chasing aft
Herge developed this character very well in this book because we do not, at this stage, realise that he is the bad guy, and in fact when the master of the drug ring falls off a cliff at the end, we are left wondering who it was and whether we will ever find out.
While as a kid we read this book and considered that drugs smuggling was bad because Tintin is out to get them, it is when he meets the Raj of Gaipajama that the major concern is raised.

But when I was looking at the obscure school of experimental comic book artists called "Oubapo" recently, Tintin appeared again on my radar screen and I decided to re-read this early story, published first in the early 30s.And I ended up disappointed!
Usually, the plot is well sequenced and the characters well "drawn", both metaphorically as protagonists with idiosyncratic traits, and literally as cartoon figures with sharp poignancy of expression.Usually, but not here.
So, basically, we just spent three pages reading about events that are pure filler, and after that are literally back where we started!And these weaknesses, I am afraid to say, define this story, and do not remain the exception.
I did not remember any more (since I read these books so LOOOONG ago) that this was the adventure in which Dupont et Dupond appear for the first time, as well as the well known Portuguese character Oliveira da Figueira, the salesman who can make business even in the middle of the desert!
the idea was that children who got used to reading comics would never get used to enjoy real books and would not develop their reading skills.
Interesting!! i think i know who is the gangster! but waiting for the plot to reveal the person!!very interesting when compared to the earlier parts!! I enjoed reading and its a page turner!!tintin is one of the best comics i have ever rad or probably the best! it has interesting twists and the adventures are wonderful and fundeful!i wish i too have a dog like snowy!! Tintin is the sherlock holmes of the comic world! his ways of solving may not be too typical lke holmes but is quite interesting too!!waiting for the further episodes
It recently occured to me that I've never read Tintin, so I did, and it wasn't as awful as I was expecting.
I didn't realise the dog talked and I was suprised that what I thought to be a children's comic would have a plot about heroin smuggling.
The racist caricatures were exactly as I imagined.It's an extremely cluttered and fast story, with Tintin swiftly falling into one horrendous scrape after another with barely a second of breathing room, desperately throwing every possible cultural reference it can: pharohs, Lawrence of Arabia, tribal wars, elephant riders, Hindu Gods, snake charming, etc, etc, in a merlicless barrage of Orientalism.
Thankfully, this was a vast improvement upon the previous book, Tintin In America. The plotting was tighter and the character of Tintin starting to be more developed.The funny bits were actually funny, which helped, and the introduction of Thompson and Thomson gave the story an added dimension missing from the previous book.So, a better offering and a nice set up for the next volume, The Blue Lotus.
Johan löytyi Tinttiin vähän syvempää juonta pelkän päättömän vaeltelun sijaan! Vaikka kyllähän Tintti tässäkin sarjakuvassa liikkuu suht ripeästi paikasta toiseen, on hänellä selkeä päämäärä matkallaan - ja ilmeisesti matkalla on myös selkeä tarkoitus.Olin todella iloinen lukiessani tätä Tintti-sarjakuvaa; viimeinkin sankarini alkaa osoittaa niitä piirteitä, joihin muistan tykästyneeni jo lapsuudessa. Pari kommellusta sai suupielen hetkeksi nousemaan, mutta taidan olla tätänykyä todellakin vaativa lukija sarjakuvien suhteen.
#23 for 2018Genre: Children ComicDisini pertama kalinya Professor Lakmus dan detektif Thompson & Thomson muncul. Berlatar belakang negara Mesir dan penyebaran narkoba disana. Juga pertama kali muncul musuh bebuyutan Tintin, sang sutradara. Walaupun diterbitkan awal 30-an jalan ceritanya masih seru. Ini yang disebut komik klasik, gak lekang dimakan jaman.
this book was a good throwback to when i was younger and read Tintin books with my family and it was easy and quick which will help me read lots of books this semester.
Book 4 and I've finally reached the first true Tintin book. This one has all the usual tropes and isn't sullied by Tintin in America's poor plotting.
Cigars of the Pharaoh is one of Tintin's earliest adventures.
He and Snowy are on a cruise to Egypt when they happen to meet Professor Sophocles Sarcophagus (the first of Tintin's absent-minded professors) and join his expedition.
Most significantly, Tintin meets the detectives Thompson and Thomson as well as the movie mogul Rastapopolous.
While Cigars of the Pharaoh is a self-contained story, some of the mysteries are resolved in The Blue Lotus.
Herge wrote Cigars in 1932 then revised it in 1955, which is why the art has the more polished look of later stories as well as the anachronistic glimpse of a copy of Destination: Moon.Spooky this One ...
are we to believe that tintin made it from the banks of the Mediterranean to central India on one tank of gas in a pre-ww2 plane? I admit I don't know a WHOLE lot about planes, but that beggers the imagination. BUT I love that he learns to talk to elephants, who are, of course, the most intelligent beings in this story which I don't think is racist against non-white people, I think its racist against non-elephants and I am A-OK with that, sorry, I know, I'm a hypocrite. Elephants are great.
Continuing on with my adventures with Tintin. This time Tintin is traveling on a cruise when he comes across a strange conspiracy involving cigars, an odd mark and a secret boss. It also introduces the first of the nutty professors who'll eventually become Professor Cornelius. So far the best in my reread this is how I remember Tintin. The introduction of the Thomson Twins was good to see. I look forward to the rest of the series now it's broken out of it's racist origination.
+ Artwork good as always+ Great characters (the Fakir, Thompson & Thomson and the Professor - a precursor to Calculus?)= Less racist than the previous one, but still somewhat racist (Maharajas, Fakirs, Elephants, etc.) - maybe a reflection of the time period it was written in= Still has some deus ex machinas... which isn't great- Weak villains, except for the Fakir? How does the Fakir get the rope straight? Why doesn't the Fakir get out of everything through hypnosis
Dans "Les cigares du pharaon" (1934), Tintin se trouve impliqué, par hasard et malgré lui, dans un trafic de stupéfiants qui va l'entraîner jusqu'en Inde. Entre-temps, il aura rencontré Dupond et Dupont, deux policiers balourds dont les rôles vont s'affirmer progressivement.
مغامرة لطيفة من بورسعيد للجزيرة العربية للهند، الرسم متطور عن الأعداد السابقة والقصة أدق.
Oh no, Tintin has been captured.
Oh no, Tintin has been captured.
Oh no, Tintin has been captured.
Oh no, Tintin has been captured.
Oh no, Tintin has been captured.
Oh no, Tintin has been captured.
With the help of Snowy, Tintin escapes!
With the help of Snowy, Tintin escapes!
With the help of Snowy, Tintin escapes!
With the help of Snowy, Tintin escapes!
With the help of Snowy, Tintin escapes!
And so it goes.
All this misadventure takes Tintin from Port Said to the jungles of India.
This early work is beautiful if not slight in its' plot and characters.
Undoubtedly this book is fast paced than it's predecessors. We follow Tintin and Snowy around from the deserts of Egypt to the Mystic jungles of India. This book introduces us to the goofy detective duo Thomson & Thompson, whom you cannot but adore. The book skillfully holds the temperament of the Arabic nomads and the Indian believers. Though we don't get to know the identity of the mysterious villain, the book will amaze its readers nevertheless.
Trepidante aventura de Tintín. En este caso, el reportero se enfrentará a unos traficantes de opio en Egipto. Sectas, piramides llenas de trampas, locos de manicomio.. un poco de todo para una de las aventuras mas entretenidas del personaje creado por Hergé.
Reading further in the series gives me this feeling that i won't look at or enjoy the way i did when i watched the animated series as a child :/ Seems silly and absurd at times and the racist thing is still prevalent in one or more panels in the comics. Apart from all this, its a good read.
very good like all others. but i think Thompson and Thomson were a little much but it was amazing because so many people were after him but he survived.
This has long been one of my favorite Tintin books! Ties in well with several of the other books in the series, and introduces you to Thomson and Thompson and the Maharaja of Gaipajama. Sets up perfectly for the Blue Lotus.I love all of the historical references in the series. It’s not just for kids! Adults will enjoy it just as much. Enough humor for both!
Finalmente una storia come si deve, con un inizio, uno svolgimento e una fine sensati.E finalmente vediamo all'opera lo strampalato duo dei Dupond e Dupont, anzi  direi di più dei Dupont e Dupond.
Read this to the kids. Completely implausible at times but makes for some entertaining reading.
