https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/820910.The_Upstairs_Room
It is a true story of two Jewish girls who lived with a Dutch family, secretly, for two years at the end of World War II.
The story is told from the younger girl's perspective and is related simply without excessive emotion or excessive explanations.
The story doesn't go into a lot of detail about what happened to those Jews who were taken to camps and then killed.
But be prepared, the last page probably describes all the emotion, tension and fear of the two years of hiding in a sentence that somehow makes the impact that much more powerful than if it had been repeated over and over again throughout the book.

What a great book. So glad I happened on it.
They live in Holland when the war happens and they are forced to move away from their homes in order to be safe from the Nazi's.
Also this book was very interesting because I learned many new things about what the Jewish people had to deal with in the other family's home.
And also I would like to recommend this book to people who enjoy adventure books because there is a lot of fun and exciting adventures in this book.
This is another really great book for readers who are interested in World War 2 and the Holocaust.
The story takes place in Holland and is the true account (or biography) of a young girl named Annie living during the time when Hitler was taking over Holland and other countries and persecuting Jews.
Annie and her family are Jewish and have to go into hiding.
The Hannink's father says he'll take the girls back after two weeks at the most, but he doesn't come back.
They soon become well bonded with the couple and old woman as if they were family.
I did a book report on this in 5th grade, and was reminded of it when I read "Night" with my niece recently.
I could not for the life of me remember the title, so I spent about an hour searching things I remembered from it all over the internet, and behold: the power of the 21st century brought this book back to me.
I was as emotionally moved by it now as when I read it at age 10.
But now I see the clever writing, how the sentence structure changes as the main character goes from age 6 to 13.
I highly recommend this book to middle school readers.
I read this book for the bookclub I am in and to be honest, when I found out this was what we were reading this month I was a little dissappointed. This is why it is very important not to judge a book by it's cover (or title or blurb). It turns out this is a very good book, following the story of two Jewish girls who live in hiding. It was very eye-opening. And this is a true story, an autobiography which is totally breathtaking. I really enjoyed this book.
I think because I have read many books about WWII--fiction and non-fiction alike, this book for me pales in comparison to them. It is definitely an easy read, and of course the subject matter is interesting, but I felt like nothing really happened. The author didn't adequately convey the despair those poor Jews must have felt at having to hide for so long. If the characters were more endearing, and their development stronger, I would have liked this book a lot more.
I read this to the kids for History as it's a story of a young Jewish girl who had to go into hiding in Holland during WWII. It's the author's true story and made very real through her writing. I loved the "Postscript" as the author shared her experience as an adult, taking her daughters back to Holland to see the house where she hid, meet the family that hid her, and see her old hiding place. It was emotional for me envisioning that.
I liked it very much. The last chapter is really touching.
"The Upstairs Room", a novel by Johanna Reiss, tells the powerful story of Annie, a young Jew who lives through World War II.
Before the war, she lived in Holland with her mother, father, and two sisters, Rachel and Sini.
One day, a tree in the commons begins to give rules about what Jews can do and what they can't.
The war continues to grow along with the action that the novel contains as Annie and her sister Sini go into hiding.
The book did, however, begin to get repetitive as Annie and Sini had some days where they did the same things over and over again.
I was disappointed in this Newbery Honor book. Although it was interesting to get the perspective of a child and her experience & understanding (or lack thereof) of the situation she was in, the swearing really bothered me and made it a book I wouldn’t recommend to children or keep on my shelf. I don’t know many kids who would stick with this story anyway; it was rather boring - which accurately reflected the author’s experience - but even the parts that should have been suspenseful felt flat and detached. It was a basic survival story devoid of faith.
I remember this book so fondly.
The story is about two Jewish sisters hiding out in a trap room behind a closet in the upstairs room (hence the title) of a helping family during World War II.
They were trapped in the room for months hiding however one day the sisters risked to be outside and felt the warm glistening of the sun.
I could not imagine the based on true event of this book ever happening to me.
I appreciated the history, the suffering, and how the story was beautifully written about a horrible time in our history through the experience of two Jewish children.
I didn’t realize until I started that this is a memoir of the author’s own experience in hiding during WWII. It reminded me of a middle grades version of The Diary of Anne Frank, a comparison made by Elie Wiesel as well. This a gentler version and a great book for older elementary to middle school kids learning about WWII and the Holocaust. There is quite a bit of language that might bother some parents (damn and GD, repeated throughout from one character). Highly recommend.
gelezen in 1974 en nu in deze nieuwe uitgave uit 2018.De vertaling is hier en daar iets aangepast, het boek nog steeds mooi om te lezen...Het boek verscheen in 1972 eerst in het Engels, twee jaar later in het Nederlands. De vertaling is van Bob den Uyl.
This is the true story of 2 Jewish girls who go into hiding during WW2 and even though it is a "young adult" book, it held my interest and kept my eyes flying across the pages to find out what would happen to these poor girls next.
I didn’t realize this was autobiographical until I finished the book and read the note at the end. Now I HAVE to read the sequel.
This book is so good it is based on Johanna's real life and it teaches you many life skills like caring,bravery,sacrifice, kindness and love I don't know why you would not want to read this book it is history. I love it.
Even though The Upstairs Room by Johanna Reiss is fiction it gave me great insight into live during World War II in Holland.
Annie DeLeeuw was eight years old when the German army occupied Holland.
Annie and her sister Sini are hidden from the Germans by the Hannick family.
Annie and Sini live with their huge family.
When the Germans create headquarters outside the Oosterveld's living room they need to be very quiet.
Luckilly the girls met a very kind family who hid them from the Germans.
It gave me insight into German occupied Holland during WWII.
There are all sorts of comparisons that can be made between this and Anne Frank's "Diary of a Young Girl".
For some reason, I found I had a better sense of the hardships and fears with this one than the other.
Maybe that is because this was written by an adult looking back on the experiences instead of a teen in the midst of the experiences.
This one seemed to flow better - again, it was a planned out story rather than the publishing of journal entries.
I consider this a well-written account of a specific time in history.
I read this book originally as a 4th grader.
In undergrad, as a sophomore in a class called "Jews and Anti-Semitism," I did an Honors Option where my professor (noted Holocaust scholar Kenneth Waltzer) assigned us to investigate true-life Holocaust memoirs.
I picked this book, since I read it to pieces as a child, and I liked the way it had a quasi-happy ending (something you don't often get from Holocaust stories).
I also managed to find the author on the Internet and wrote her a letter, to which she responded quite kindly.
I highly recommend this book and commend the author for all of her dedication to educating children.
The upstairs room is about a girl that is Jewish and she is about 12 years old.
The German war is going on, and she is hiding from the Nazis.I don’t recommend this book I thought it was kind of boring but that’s my opinion.
I thought it was a good spot where they were hiding but I feel like they could have hidden better like in the walls or something.
I give this book a 1 out of 5 stars it was not that good.
I think i'm going to read the diary of Anne Frank next.
This is a 1973 Newbery Honor book, an American Library Association Notable Children's book, a Jane Addams Peace Association Honor book and a winner of the prestigious Buxtehuder Bulle German children's book award.Taken from real-life experiences of the author, she tells the story of four years of confinement in a cramped attic room during the Nazi occupation of Holland.
Written from the perspective of eight year old Annie, the reader learns of the day to day boredom and fear of their confinement.Recommended ( )
This book was really good it had some cliff hangers that I really liked. I would recommend this book to any one who likes history books. This book has some sad parts,happy parts and nerve-racking parts. That were really good. Like when the Germans came to their house and the girls had to hide in the closet safe place. My favor part was when the family let the Germans use their house as a base when they also had Jewish girls living in the house.
I think I read this book a least a half dozen times growing up. It was one of my favorites. A recent reorganization of some books prompted me to pick it up and read it again for the first time in about 16 years. I was rather emotionally attached to this book in my youth and it influenced a lot of my other reading choices and my early interest in history.After all these years it did not have the same effect on me but I still consider it a worthwhile book.
I really enjoyed this book. It is a true story, and I really liked the historical facts included. It does have some inappropriate language, so I would have to say that I recommend this to ages 13 and up. :)
Simple yet fascinating account of two girls who spent over two years in hiding during WWII - and lived to tell the tale.
Un libro sulla Seconda Guerra Mondiale, narrato attraverso gli occhi di una bambina. BELLO!
It was very good because it explained a lot about what she was going through. It was also about the Holocaust which I like to learn about.
Turns out I did read this before. Good book for about grades 4-6. Story of a Jewish girl in hiding during WWII.
