https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/27292.The_Roman_Way
She had a brief discussion on the treatment of women in Greek and Roman literature, pointing out that Virgil's treatment of Dido set the precedent for how women are treated in consequent works.
I'm not sure.Another question was on her comments about pleasure and morality in the ancient world.
Then she recounts a story from Xenophon about Socrates visiting a courtesan as representative of all Greece and follows it with, ”But to the Romans the opposition between duty and pleasure was absolute.
And her comment about the Romans can be seen in drinking laws, but what about their pleasure in the arena?
Edith Hamilton not only appreciates Latin literature for its use in the analysis of Roman history, but also the brilliance of their writings. By using Roman playwrights and poets, Hamilton traces the development of Rome, from its origin as something not-Greek, to the romantic and grandiose poems of Virgil, and the sentimental romantic that is Seneca.  The expression of Roman morals is first seen through its character within the plays of Terence and Plautus. The Mother, The Son, The Slave: each w
Edith Hamilton not only appreciates Latin literature for its use in the analysis of Roman history, but also the brilliance of their writings.
By using Roman playwrights and poets, Hamilton traces the development of Rome, from its origin as something not-Greek, to the romantic and grandiose poems of Virgil, and the sentimental romantic that is Seneca.
The Roman character was not borne for servility, however Horace was a product of an age where it was more important to have a great deal of money, that the sense of honour in its pursuits had been lost.
Like the Greek Way, the Roman Way is a collection of interpretive essays on specific writers and their broader cultural context, this time, of course, relocated to Italy's capital.
Her insight into Roman culture is, in my opinion, indispensable to anyone interested in the topic, even now, almost 80 years after the publication of the Roman Way. Hamilton's subject matter and method in all of the books of hers that I've read so far appeal to me a great deal and I have been hard pressed to find anything to criticize.
Now there's some food for Common Sense: why would Seneca set out to create something so different from the Greek original if he didn't sense another, more home-spun style and sentiment?It is an interesting theory, but it does require some squeezing and pushing, and I am still not sure what common feelings bound these men together --yet I am sure there was something of that sort, some kind of "Roman Way." Ultimately, it is one of those classic questions of the liberal arts: "you will never be able to answer it, but you will learn a lot by asking it." In this Edith Hamilton does an admirable job, a goddess of classical literature, laying out the facts for us mere mortals --and not shying away from liberal amounts of conjecture and digression.Hamilton was a "popularizer" --because she dumbed things down, says the cynic -- because she made things interesting and fun, says the enthusiast.
I read this book in my studies of ancient history this year, alongside Plutarch and Cicero.
While I enjoyed this book, I don’t think it compares to The Greek Way, which was excellent.
This book is very good and insightful, it just falls short of all of the beauty that was captured in The Greek Way. But—that is sort of how history played out—I don’t think there were as many beautiful things to write about during this time in history.
I still love how Edith Hamilton brings it all to life and helps us to understand the mind of the ancient Romans.
Fascinating although the parallels between now and then are a little alarming.
This book is easy-to-read, well-written and insightful.
Hamilton gives an authoritative account of the lives of a distant culture and their broader cultural context to today’s world.
I really got a feeling for what the Romans thought and felt.
Referencing such representational figures as Plautus and Terence, and even Cicero, she provided much interesting analyses from using examples of source documents.
It isn’t that long though, and I wish she provide more of a history of Rome and a more comprehensive survey of Roman literature instead of character sketches of the chief Roman literary figures.
But this is well worth the read.
The author succeeds in bringing an understanding of what the Romans thought and felt, and what their legacy to the modern world has been. Well and clearly written with interesting analyses and use of examples of source documents. I loved this book.
Edith Hamilton is sassy. I wish I had gone to Bryn Mayr Girl's school in the 1920s and taken her class. Yet another life changing experience I missed out on.
I love reading history because you realize, certainly in this book, that all people were fundamentally just like ourselves, which makes the study of them also the study of ourselves.
Because they were just like us) Indeed the author herself takes that view, as she says toward the end,"History repeats itself.
We that are grown should not find it impossible to learn from the ages-old recorded experience of the past."That is an extended quote, and perhaps more pessimistic than most in the book, but in truth the author has little asides on what this or that means for our understanding of humanity scattered throughout.
The Roman Way is a book I wish I had read at the beginning of my undergraduate education.
This book is a great introduction and overview to Roman history, society, and literature.
Even as a Classics major, I came away feeling like I had learned a lot.
It also made me think that it would be great to have cocktails with Edith Hamilton herself.
This book left me with a lot to think about and a desire to read more.
Anyone interested in the History of Rome, literature, or political science would do well to read this relatively short, fun book as a starting point.
Hamilton writes so sublimely when she weaves in and out of text from sources and her own writing to tell a story.
Her idea that Roman artistic personality is essentially romantic is fun when contrasted with how we normally think on the subject.
However, she makes the same mistake that so many other people do when thinking about Rome: the idea that it essentially ended when Commodus followed Marcus Aurelius.
You just can't ignore that!All in all it's a lovely book and a nice primer on who to read from the ancient sources.
It's fun to think about these people not just for their historical importance but their artistic merit.
Pas du tout le même niveau que "The Greek Way", et encore plus important, on ne sent pas du tout le même enthousiasme chez Edith Hamilton vis-á-vis des Romains que elle a pour les Grecs.
The Greek Way était nice to write, pendant que The Roman Way était plus quelque chose elle devait terminer.
Elle distingue entre la poésie, et la beauté, et l'intéllectualisme des Grecs d'un côté, et le pragmatisme, l'individualisme et la focalisation des banalités des quotidien des Romains d'un autre côte.
On sent bien lesquels elle préfère, et qui est, selon son opinion, la raison pour la chute de Rome.
A survey of the Roman thought as it exists in the written record. The book spans the period from around 200 BC, dating to the earliest preserved Roman literary works, until the second century AD. Among the notable figures Hamilton examines are Cicero, Catullus, Horace, Virgil, and Seneca. Very often, Hamilton compares and contrasts the Greek and the Roman thought, concluding that much of modern view of life comes from the Romans.An enjoyable, brief, and selective survey that somehow feels unique. The author's opinions show up very clearly and yet the books seems free from ideological shaping.
The book provides an account of Rome, as written by her own people instead of based on what historians have uncovered. It discusses the differences between the Greek classicism and Roman romanticism, traces the influence of Roman theatre on Western theatre, and explains what the Roman characters were like. I found the narration a bit difficult in some places, but overall it is a very enlightening introduction to Rome, her legacy, and how she shaped the Western civilisation.
An interesting approach to what it means to be a Roman: following its greatest authors & orators. It works for the most part, but due to its pre-WW2 authorship, there is a very old-fashioned...and very English...sensibility to the interpretation & analysis. Combined with the occasionally stodgy writing style, this ends up being as much an historical artifact as it is a work of history in its own right.
Though this is a decent look into Roman life as displayed in plays, Hamilton fails as a writer for me. Her writing style and argument lacks emphasis throughout, and this to me becomes simply a collection of snippets from plays which I'd be more interested in reading than I am in reading her attempts to analyze them.
A good look back into the roman way of life, as long as you can get past the syntax.
Picked the book up thinking it would be more about the history of Rome, instead it covered mainly the works of Roman authors. Still fairly interesting especially chapters 4-6
Overall, I found it a quick, intelligent read that shouldn't take too long to sift through.
However, Hamilton makes broad, sweeping assumptions of the Roman based on the writings of only a handful of writers.
She also analyzes the reactions and trends to those writings, and in that, I think there is greater value.
A picture of the people is not as well seen in the piece of writing itself, but in how that writing is recieved.
(The 2nd and 3rd Matrix movies might be a good example - but I digress.)In Chapters IV-VI we gain a better picture of Cicero than we do of the Roman people.
I picked it up because I am getting ready to re-read Vergil and I wanted to have some setting, some context and I wasn't disappointed.
In the final pages, Hamilton describes how important the study of history is and how extremely relevant the study of Roman history really is, not simply for the scholar or the student--but also for anyone involved in perpetuating our own culture.
This is extremely relevant.I hope you read this very accessible book too.
I think it is like an adult education class--read it because you want to be introduced or re-introduced to...the Roman Way.
It does make an excellent introduction to the figures whose writings Hamilton employs to illustrate Roman mores -- Plautus and Terence, Cicero, Catullus, Horace, Livy, Virgil, and Juvenal.
This is not however your typical social history; if you really want to know how the Romans lived and how they thought, I wouldn't start here.
This also was for me the most enjoyable portion of the book, which perhaps reflects my taste as much as it does Hamilton's writing...but the last third seemed to open up from a fairly dry exercise in literary criticism into a much more colorful and interesting discussion of life as it was actually lived in Imperial Rome.
Hamilton's slim little volume is not a history of Rome.
Nor is it a comprehensive survey of Roman culture or literature.
It is a series of character sketches of the chief Roman literary figures from the time of Plautus to the that of Tacitus, roughly 200 B.C. to A.D. 100.
Hamilton uses these sketches to explicate what the congeries of attitudes and beliefs she styles the "Roman Way." The Romans as they emerge from her portrait are down-to-earth, stolid people, more practical than the Greeks.
Yet she makes a convincing argument that Western culture generally, because of Rome's more direct influence upon it, owes more to the Romans than the Greeks.
"If you have a garden and a library, you have everything you need." Marcus Tullius CiceroEdith Hamilton's premise for this book is that we learn more about a time period or people by reading their literature, poetry, speeches and plays.
I don't know if this helped me with any chronological history of the Roman Empire but I do feel I understand the Romans better than before I read this book.
I enjoyed learning about him and his death at the hands of Mark Anthony's men.
Horace and Virgil were also interesting subjects to learn about.
This is Hamilton's examination of Roman literature, a companion to "The Greek Way." The drama and poetry of Rome was hugely influenced by the Greek tradition, and by her lights it pales by comparison.
Her argument seems to be that life as a Roman citizen was far more duty-bound than was the Greek's, and that is reflected in the literature.
She appreciates Vergil but labels him a "romantic," a term which is again useful only when compared to his Greek counterpart, Homer.
In almost every case it seems that whatever value there is to find in Roman literature, the Greek original is better.
Better as an introduction than as a survey I warmed up some on Edith Hamilton knowing what to expect in this one.
What Hamilton's books are good for is an introduction of sort.
She is reluctant to translate some of the writers and spends a great amount of time grading writers against one another, and I get the whole point of conveying the spirit of the two ways, but it definitely serves better as a lens to consider in your reading of Roman (or Greek) writers than it does at sharing useful knowledge about them.
I decided to reread it before sending it off to the University College Bookroom and I am so glad I did.
She freely admits that this is an incomplete and biased record but it is the best evidence for grasping the Roman spirit as it evolved from the Republican playwrights, Plautus and Terrence, through to the later imperial works of Juvenal, Tacitus and Seneca.Throughout she contrasts what she observes in Roman literature with Greek literature, which in most cases was the model, and so it helps to know the Greek sources, a deficiency easily remedied by reading Hamilton's Greek Way.
A moderately inspired work which will reiterate truisms of Roman culture for those even vaguely familiar with the major players of Latin Literature—still, it was a nice little visit while it lasted. This is one of those rare cases where the book could have been much better if it had been twice, maybe even three times longer. A decent treatment nevertheless.Again, its not really a revelation that we as Americans share so much with the Romans, but it probably helps to hear this every now and then.
I don't agree with every assessment Hamilton makes, but each one is thoughtful, well-reasoned, well-articulated. I would give this to my students as an excellent post-read overview of any of these Roman authors, and also as a case study in effective use of quotations. And reading about these authors I love made me love them even more. As Raymond once said of Plutarch, "All the characters in your cozy classics world in one place *grin*."
Hamilton, a renown scholar of ancient Rome and Greece, shows Rome through the eyes of it's writers....Cicero, Horace, Virgil, etc. Overall, pretty boring. There were a few interesting tidbits along the way. For those people who think that we live in the "most wicked" time, they really should study ancient Rome.
