https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/281747.Principles_of_Literary_Criticism_Routledge_Classics_
I.A. Richards wrote this book at a time when English literature was a nascent field of study and the different branches of modern literary theory weren't quite codified yet.
His writing draws from several disciplines and both are cited as practitioners of New Criticism, an important step between liberal humanism and structuralism that privileges the significance of content over context.At the time he wrote Principles of Literary Criticism, Richards was quite taken with new theories about the brain.
He tries to build an account of literary theory based chiefly on how literature is received through psychological experiences.
It's weird to finally actually read I.A. Richards, after essentially being saturated in approaches drawn from his writing (and from the New Critics, and from those who came after them) for something like my entire educational career.
Within these techniques of reading (Richards calls the book a "machine for thinking") are several interesting binaries, which I hope to use in my consideration of poetry in the future--his division of the "critical" and the "technical," between what a work of art conjures up and what it is physically made of, is something that I think would reward future consideration.
I don't want to make it seem like Richards is some sort of revanchist future for literary studies: much has been written since it, and we need to read that as well.
I am not in agreement with Richards about many aspects of human nature (I tend to think he is rather too optimistic about the mind of the poet and the value of art) but this is excellent stuff.
His work on the possible relations and confusions between emotion and cognition is particularly illuminating, and as a reader I daresay Richards is one of the best around (regardless of what one thinks of his critical assumptions).
In fact I think the reader and the psychologist exist only rather uneasily in him, and the attempt to reconcile the 2 has resulted in an admirable attempt to understand what happens when we read.
Reads like a fount for the study, teaching, and learning of literature and the arts as these have gone on in American classrooms from Richards' time even to our own.
An amazing argument, or complex of arguments, for the educational value and indispensible importance of the arts, both in school and out of school, in life and for life.
And our vaunted interdisciplinary inquiries in this scholarly region hardly seem to have advanced very far beyond the point where Richards took them in 1926.Art, he says, creates the possibility for experiences that define us, as individuals and as social collectivities.
I cannot say I have fully comprehended the complexities of Richards' position.
I've spent half my life reading critical theory, and it's mildly astonishing that this text is given such stature as being foundational.
Or where, for that matter, he offers a good or model reading of a poem?
Please, fellow readers, consult the "diagram" on page 107 -- a pictographic illustration of the mental processes involved in confronting a line from (though he does not tell us) Browning, I believe -- and tell me in what way this bears any resemblance to "Science" or modern psychology?
We all need to read more: the "foundations of modern criticisms" include some really loose beams.

Its an interesting book, but it is a little bit too "old" to be useful, but that is just my opinion.È un libro interessante, ma un po' troppo datato per essere veramente utile, ma questa resta comunuque soltanto la mia opinione a riguardo.
It´s an interesting book, but it is a little bit too "old" to be useful, but that is just my opinion.È un libro interessante, ma un po' troppo datato per essere veramente utile, ma questa resta comunuque soltanto la mia opinione a riguardo.
Espero nunca tener que volver a leerlo. Está interesante pero muy técnico para mí, aunque llega a tener partes humorísticas: "un crítico debe ser arrogante en su lenguaje, juzgar la moral de una obra es trabajo del gobierno y la iglesia, los psicoanalistas son unos ineptos críticos".
Richards' book is essential reading for the writer/critic in search of principles of 'analytic' and 'appreciative' literary understanding.
Sure, there's plenty of crackpot psychology (which Richards later recanted) in here, but as you read the book you can see the modern discipline of English studies taking shape.
Overall this was really boring. There were some surprises, good and bad. Also it's racist. The most interesting part was the second appendix on Eliot, since Eliot was still contemporary at the time.
