https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/290074.The_Jack_Tales
Where reading a story can be a solitary act, sharing the experience of an oral tale is a social act; and the contents of the tales are a repository of history and tradition, a shared cultural heritage that contributes to shaping a common identity (and often, a quarry of source material for literary storytelling as well).
The book is transcribed from these recordings, but with some harmonizing of different versions and verbal adaptation for an audience of younger readers (any changes are noted) and enriched by Berkeley Williams' wonderful drawings.To read (or listen to), these stories is to enter a world where there are multi-headed, human-eating giants; where shape-shifting malevolent witches exist; where magic is a reality, and really strange things can happen.
The oral tradition was fading, primarily because no one told stories to the family after the advent of TV.
Consequently, when Chase began his collection of old traditional Jack tales, the stories were already fading from the memories of Applachia's elderly.
In many instances, Chase came to feel that he had interviewed one of the last living "tellers." In the process of collecting the stories, Chase noted that many of the Jack tales were actually versions of the Grimm brothers' tales, or even "variations" of Chaucer, of tales in the Decameron.
Like Joseph Campbell, Chase noted that there were many variations of the same story.
He also deals with robbers -- is oppressed by his employer and helped by a magical bull -- stays all night in a mill and sternly forbids a cat to sop its doll in his meal, ending up chopping off its paw and finding it turning into a hand -- marries a king's daughter by making her laugh -- helps a girl turned into a cat by a wicked witch -- wins a match with King Marock and sets out to find him, not knowing he's a wizard, and has daughters who turn, not into birds, but into greyhounds -- and the last tale where he trapped Death, but finally freed him on hearing that people wanted to die, they were growing so old, and he was the first one to die himself.Many different takes on many old tales known across Europe.
I first read this book in 1982 as a sophomore in high school taking a folklore and mythology course at Harvard Summer School.
What a difference from my recent out loud readings to my six year old son.
Jack remains the quintessential Tom Sawyer or Huck Finn: clever, mischievous, cunning, successful and not above a mean prank.
The Jack Tales are great for kids, though a bit violent in this PC age, as well as adults.
They remain a rich resource for scholars who want to study their European roots.
Above, all, this is quintessential American literature in its rawest and purest form.
Great fun. They remind me of granddad's stories.Full review here: http://www.oldeship.blogspot.com/2012...
My son and I read these stories together at bedtime. I was fascinated by the history behind these Jack Tales as much as the actual stories themselves and my son (11 yrs) was captured by the adventure and fantasy in each tale. Tales about a boy named Jack have been passed down from generation to generation and this is one of the few books that collects those folktales, I highly recommend it to everyone young and old.
These tales are timeless. I remember them as a kid and enjoy them as an adult.
(Actually 3 and a half stars) The stories in this anthology tell of resourceful young Jack and his strange adventures, with everything from multi-headed giants to a surprising number of kings for rural America.
The Southern dialect used to narrate the stories made me feel more immersed in the setting, and Jack is always entertaining.
But many of the stories are either very similar to each other or clearly versions of European tales like "Jack and the Beanstalk" and "The Musicians of Bremen" adapted to an Appalachian setting.
These are a series of short stories told by Council Harmon’s family in the Southern Appalachian Mountains and recorded from their oral tradition.
If you concentrate you can almost hear someone’s Virginian grandfather telling you these stories as if he’d been there and saw Jack do it all.
He’ll do anything to avoid working a lick (he lies, thieves, cheats), but he always shares what he has and he never refuses an adventure and somehow he ends up with sacks of gold and the king’s daughter’s hand in marriage.
However, other stories are uniquely Southern.
I had never read THE JACK TALES even though I am a former children's librarian.
When Tony Earley referred to them in his latest book of short stories, I was determined to read them.
I enjoyed them.
And even though there was a lot of violence and killing in them, many times in the stories Jack helped those in need and was rewarded for it.
Jack was a very likable character and a very smart one, if not tricky.
Since I have just seen IN THE WOODS, a movie based on fairy tales, I enjoyed this book all the more.
"Jack and the Beanstalk" was likable in both.
This is a topic that I love and look into from time to time. These are so different than the tales of chivalry and knitehood. Jack, the rascally character, gains his endeavors by trickery, cheating, luck, or whatever works. He is not highly born but a poor mountain lad who faces giants, devils, and cruelty. There is no code for his behavior, just survival. I love this oral tradition in literature, and though these tales were compiled in the early part of the twentieth century, their preservation is important.
These stories take me back to sitting around the fire in the back yard, eating roasted marshmallows, or sitting on the front porch swing with the family after a big meal of garden foods and listening to these stories of Jack....told to us, not out of a book, but as a story....just like Jack was a long, lost cousin..... It's really fun to read this stuff and to remember that I actually heard some of these stories from my family growing up! Awesome!!
Bizarre, violent, and completely hilarious. As a kid, I checked this book out over and over from the library. (I own a tattered copy now.) I was constantly pulled back by Jack's unfaltering sense of self and his ability to never get fazed - whether he's facing a three-headed man-eating giant wandering the Appalachian backwoods or whether he's given some strange, impossible task by a hillbilly king. A world far more rich and interesting than 99% of the fantasy books out there.
I bought this for my Children's Literature class and honestly, it was way more brutal than I imagined. A lot of dishonesty and not something I would my children to read if I had them or something I'd want to share with my students. The only reason I gave it a two instead of a one is because the author put a lot of work into it, collecting folklore all over the country and did do a good job of it, but morally and graphically not anything I would want children to be around.
Jack in the Giants' NewgroundJack and the BullJack and the Bean TreeJack and the RobbersJack and the North West WindJack and the VarmintsBig Jack and Little Jack\Sop Doll!Jack and the King's GirlFill, Bowl! Fill!Hardy HardheadOld Fire DragamanJack and the Doctor's GirlCat n' MouseJack and King MarcokJack's Hunting TripsThe Heifer HideSoldier JackThese are really gory stories of Jack.
You know Jack from Jack and the Beanstalk? He got up to much more than just giant-killing. If I remember correctly, Richard Chase traveled around the southern Appalachians collecting all the Jack stories that had been passed down in the oral tradition for generations and this is the result. They probably get kind of predictable, but we used to fight over who got to check this out of our school library. This book was a lot of fun.
Delightful. Three of the stories, "Jack and the Bull," "Jack and King Marock" (my favorite, I think - Jack gambles with a 'roguish kind of feller' who may be the Devil) and "Soldier Jack" (Ray Hicks memorably tells this tale in the Scots-Irish episode of Story of English) were recorded in Wise County, Virginia, whence hail my father's folks. Chewy, tasty language (insert cornpone metaphor here).
What fun! I think we got most of the way through this before it was due back at the library. My husband who grew up in North Carolina read these to me and I do love how unfazed Jack is by pretty much everything. Just takes care of what needs to be done. I was surprised at how many tales had familiar parts from the spinoffs I had heard.
I've tried to read this collection of stories about a young man named Jack, but because the setting for all the stories take place during what I guess is the eighteenth centuryy in the Appalachian Mountain region, the English is hard to follow. Also like what my English teacher says,"life's too short to read books you don't enjoy!"
I started reading a few of these stories at night before bed to replace my terrible Netflix routine and it's started a good habit. I'd been reading some Grimm's fairy tales prior and I enjoyed finding some of the same tropes in the Jack tales (the looking glass to see Death, the group of men each with some talent who outwit the King, etc).
This book is an assortment of different stories with the character Jack. I used Jack and the Kings daughter. It was about the king's daughter who had never laughed before in her life. Many tried. Jack, while doing his day to day life things, and just being the town fool managed to make her laugh and was married to her immediately.
The Jack Tales are English folktales that were brought to Appalachia. Unfortunately Richard Chase was a sort of J. Frank Dobie figure, not recording the tales faithfully but trying to make them "literary" instead. Despite this romantic regionalism, he does give us some very well-told folktales.
This book has helped shape my world view. I've been reading it since I was a little Aaron, going to summer camp. Seriously, bring over a couple beers and I'll read you the whole thing, all the stories, complete with voices.
This is a Christmas gift for Jack, but after reading a couple of the stories, I'm not sure Jack's mom will enjoy reading the fables aloud to him considering the heavy southern accent the narration uses.So maybe he'll read it himself in 10 years?
An excellent retelling of folktales from the southern Appalachians.
This collection shows the evolution of mythology from one culture to another.
My children will know these. <3
These are great stories, written in the Appalachian dialect.
3 jack tales
These tales are old, but they make for wonderful read alouds and introducing dialect.
