https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/253047.Vienna_Prelude
It has some faith discussions and some of the characters clearly have a strong faith in God. There are even Gospel principles and themes at times, but this is not present throughout.
The details are not explicit but were borderline at times.Even though each of the books in this series is long, they can be hard to put down as I have discovered before!
I recommend this series, but it might be better to approach it from an historical novel perspective rather than as a Christian book to avoid disappointment.
I am not going to write about all nine books in the Zion Covenant series (which I have read), but I enjoyed them immensely and learned a ton. They are historical fiction novels written by Christian authors. I learned an enormous amount about why Hitler managed to do what he did and got a much better feel for life during that time without being totally depressed by the raw language that some authors use.
And yes, the novel clearly is Christian and contains discussions about God and faith, as well as good and evil, and even heaven and hell, but for the most part it doesn't come off as preachy and as a reader you can choose to agree with the religious aspects of it, or to just view them as part of the characters' way of dealing with their problems and the situations they find themselves in.
evil" mentality when trying to explain the motivation of the nazis, instead of trying to describe the real historical and sociological causes behind antisemitism and the rise of the Nazi party in Germany.But the story is fascinating, "Vienna Prelude" is a captivating read.
"Vienna Prelude" is a good historical novel that can be enjoyed regardless of ones personal religious beliefs.
Here is another holocaust story, but from the viewpoint of pre-World War II.
This book shows us just exactly how wicked and how evil and how very conniving he was.
And thus, we have the sad and tragic happenings of the late 1930's and half of the 1940's that affected not only Europe, but the entire world.
It changed everybody's lives.
HE changed everybody's lives.This takes us from 1936 to 1938, and from Germany to Austria, back to Germany, France, England, New York and finally into Czechoslovakia.
But it is a story told with integrity and great attention to detail.
From this book, I’ve learned and understood the political feelings before the war.
I’ve learned how small a person could feel when he is living in times like the late 1930s, when he knows what is coming, but can do nothing to stop its evil advance.
And I’ve placed a greater meaning to the Christian idea of “hoping in the Lord.” Hope is such a little thing to people like us who are financially and politically secure, but to those people, hope was something tangible.
I’ve truly learned so much, experienced so much, felt and understood so much that I could never have gained from mere history books alone.
I usually enjoy historical novels, but not this one.
When, oh when, will I ever run across a "Christian" novel worth reading?
There's more eloquence in every page of that non-fiction account than I found in Thoene's entire novel.And plot, [groaning] where do I start?
Romance novel machinations, unnecessary melodrama in parceling out historic background (Really!
You're a Christian, but you never once read your Bible?
You're a Christian, but that's no big deal, not really important, since every nice person who's dying peacefully flits off toward the stars, Christian or not.Lastly, an apology to the lovely and dear friend who recommended this series; though I didn't care for the novel, I'm still Christian and I still love you!
Edmond Burke  Set in 1936 Austria in Vienna, known for its people and their love of music and culture, and a large Jewish population as was true with most European countries during hitters rise to power.
Their lack of response was a signed invitation for hitler to occupy all German speaking people, including Austria who wanted to remain an independent nation free of Germany.
During this time he was starting to deal with the Jewish problem.The German Jews were already escaping from Germany to governments that they thought was safe from hitlers reach, such as Austria, Czechoslovakia and immigrating to England, the United States and Palestine.
England, France and the United States did nothing and remained silent.
I was very impressed by the words and actions of Churchill and Eden and some of the Austrian statesmen.The main characters are Elisa Linder aka Elisa Lindheim, a concert violinist whose father was raised as a Jew and John Murphy, an American reporter.
The characters were painted very real and the story was vivid.My main negative criticism is that the book’s font was tiny the book was long.
I did feel like I would like to read the other five books sometime to find out what happened to all the characters of the story.
This had many things going for it before I even started: highly recommended by someone I totally admire, trust and respect for her literary opinion, it set during WWII which is a favorite time period in which to read and the main character is a musician, of which I am also.That said, this book blew me away.
So, the writing was great, the historical information was excellent (not preachy or boring but informative and very important to the STORY) and kept me in suspense for nearly the whole book.If I had one complaint, it would be the fact that three men fell deeply in love with the main character at first sight.
This book can be slow at times, but I kept reading because there was always something about it that made you need to know what happened next.
Since there are so many books about people's lives during World War II, it was nice to read something about how it was for people in the "prelude" before it started.
This book uses real names and people involved in politics at the time and gives lots of information about the situation and feelings between European countries.
Lots of crazy things happen and the book does a good job depicting the internal struggles of the characters.
I hesitate to write reviews of books I have not finished, because you never know if the book really does turn out to be amazing without finishing it. So please be sure to read some positive reviews as well! This is just my personal opinion of the book. (view spoiler)[I was uncomfortable with the romantic content especially all the objectifying of women even if that was a part of the time period and culture. (hide spoiler)]
I loved this book. I loved how the history wrote itself among the lives of the characters. It is thrilling, fast paced, and full of grief and longing. Takes place in one of the most tragic times of history, in the most beautiful of places. As a musician, I loved how music was weaved in, and the specks of romance all along the pages. 5 STARS!
For a good portion of the book we know only that she is a talented and pretty (the pretty part is harped on a lot) and is getting over a disappointing affair with a German officer who jilted her.
(We wouldn't know, given the aforementioned lack character development.) In particular, I had a problem with the way the author portrayed two Christian characters, Elisa and Karl, as both engaging in blatant sexual sin.
I might read the sequel, as this one ends on a partial cliffhanger.
Overall I really enjoyed this book.
The historical facts are accurate, and incorporated into the story to give perspective.
As with many (of the few) romances I've read the bone-headedness, misunderstandings, incorrect assumptions, of the would be lovers is frustrating at many places, is agonizing to the point where it's almost unbearable.
She seemed to be imperfect and flawed (in my opinion) in ways the author didn't really intend (see "bone-headedness above).
But I cared about the characters, and enjoyed the way the story helped make the events leading up to the occupaton of Austria personal.
This was the first thing I ever read by the Thoenes. I read the entire series, and I was totally blown away by it! The historical accuracy and the delightful characters got me more interested in WWII than I ever had been before. I love the fact that the Thoenes cover the war in a way that you often don't see. This is one of those books that has stuck with me over the years. I highly recommend this to anyone looking for a good historical read with a Christian touch.
This is one of the most stirring WWII stories I have ever read. The characters are immediately engaging, and the circumstances at once original, alarming, and fulfilling. It's Book One of the Zion Covenant, and I am thrilled to see that I will be staying with these rich, desperately compelling characters through four more books in the series.
A story set in Vienna, Austria before the start of WW II, during Hitler's rise to power. It is full of great characters and wonderful history, and you get caught up in the story as the people of Austria see their world slowly dissolve into Hitler's ambition. I loved it, and can'twait to read the rest of the series.
Love, love, love this book. But WWII and what everyone went through is completely fascinating to me.
During the Hitler invasion of Austria. Elise a violinist with the Vienna Philharmonic, was thourlySurprised when she received a rare violin from the concert master in his dying moments.Her friend Leah knew all about the violin and the magic of it’s case .Elise became part of the underground risking her life and the lives of her friends and family .She is able to protect innocent children by what the violin case revealed.
One of the first Christian books I ever read. Great story.
Rich with historical details, this book is slow-going at times.
In fact the authors took the first hundred pages to set the stage, but the pace picks up after that.I don't mind some romance, but found it hard to like the female protagonist who steals the heart of every many she meets.
Even when she finally chooses one of the men, their relationship is pretty rocky.
One fact I found astounding in the book was that the Nazis had "God with us" stamped on their belt buckles.
But further research showed that this was not just a Nazi delusion.
The book was really really really good. Every last bit of it was amazing, EXCEPT chapter two. I hated chapter two, but other than that the book was great.
Back then, I fell in love with this set of stories for their multidimensional characters, the thorough historical setting and for the romantic interplay between our main character, the German violinist Elisa and John, the American journalist.
I also liked that faith is a part of the story, that people choose to use their faith to give them the strength to stand up, in whatever way they can, to the evil that they are surrounded by.In this first book, we learn Elisa is Jewish but her appearance allows her to have an Aryan stage name.
There were times when I felt like I was there with the characters sharing what they experienced.
The authors had the characters tell me what I should be learning from these experiences a bit more than I wanted, but not so much that I was annoyed while I was reading.
And others, trapped in the same fierce pressure and terrible heat, become diamonds to glisten in the hand of God. To shine bright when the blackness is all around, to find love when others are burning in their hatred [is] the essence of God.I like that concept and have thought something similar while reading contrasting books by Holocaust survivors such as Man's Search for Meaning and The Hiding Place in contrast with Night by Elie Wiesel.
Beware of spoilers beyond this point.I loved how I got to see the story from different character's view points.
That definitely changed the story because you understood each of the character's view points yet you still did not totally trust them (like Thomas for me).
There are some books that will mention God only once or twice, and the book is automatically cast as Christian fiction.
Then there are other books that focus on preaching a message so much that you get tired of the book because you also want to read the story.
One of, if not THE best historical fiction book I have ever read.Right from the start, I was swept up in this intriguing tale of Austria before the Nazi invasion.
I felt everything the characters felt: anxious, drunk with joy, lost in despair, sweating with nervousness, hopelessly in love, and holding onto a vague hope that the Nazis wouldn't come.At one especially tense moment, I read fast, my eyes glued to the page.
Deep marks were left from where my teeth had pressed.
Sure sign of a good book!!
Not enough good things to say about this book!
They're so good with there historical detail; you can tell they thoroughly research before writing a novel!It's not a book full of roses.
You have to like reading about the world war II time period.
This series will surely teach you a lot about what it was like before the war started, and what lead up to it.
This book taught me a lot about what lead up to the war, and how the nations of the world could have stopped Hitler long before he got started.
Along with all of that, it has some good story lines in it!I loved the characters in this entire series, it was great!
I read this series probably 15 years ago, and I remembered liking it.
I did not remember that it was religious fiction, which is not my genre of choice generally.
That said, I would classify this book primarily as historical fiction, with a gentle infusion of Christianity.
They were believable for the most part, although I did grow a little tired of the main character's extreme wishy-washiness when it came to her love life.
I have heard that she "grows" throughout the series, so let's hope so.
The main thing I have to say about this book is that it really made me think in a different way.
I did like how the book examined the reasons that world war ii happened.
Hitler may have been the aggressor, but a lot of other countries had a role to play in letting things go so far.
Those are the people who let themselves be blown along in the wind, regardless of whether that wind is good or bad.
I've read lots of stories of people who played resistance roles in world war ii and they always leave me wondering where I would end up.
I like to think I wouldn't be one of the bad people, and I like to hope that I'd be someone who stood against injustice.
The Vienna Prelude was an amazing book!
The Theone's have an incredible style of writing that is both very exciting and make's you learn a lot about the time period.
This book was no different!
The story of Elisa Lindheim was a captivating one and it made me realize how difficult it was to be Jewish around the time of World War II.
It was not a happy, beautiful, heartwarming, book though and told things that were terrible to even think about.
I would highly recommend any books by these authors though, I would just suggest some discretion if you are a younger reader.
This was an amazing book!!
