https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/817720.Babar_and_His_Children
As Babar paces and frets, finally going on a bicycle ride, the queen delivers not one, not two, but three little elephants, much to the joy of Babar, and all the other residents of Celesteville.
Naming their offspring Alexander, Pom and Flora, the proud parents embark on an adventure of a different kind, finding that keeping their little ones safe - from rattles, cliffs and alligators - is a full-time job.
Some of the parenting issues felt rather outdated to me (not surprising given the publication date), but then, I also found some of the adventures rather sweet.
This book was for the kids and they liked it to bits they thought it was the best story ever.
I love these problematic elephants.
I re-read this last night after borrowing it from the library. We have a copy of the earlier edition at my parents' place. It's still as gorgeous as I remembered it, with just the small misfortune of the hand-letering being replaced with fake hand-lettering, which takes away one star worth of charm and delight.
The Babar books are all excellent. Beautifully written with illustrations that are endearing. My copy is a 1966 hardbound copy in pristine condition and I consider it a valuable part of my children's collection.
Ages: 5 - 9**Like my reviews? I also have hundreds of detailed reports that I offer too. These reports give a complete break-down of everything in the book, so you'll know just how clean it is or isn't. I also have Clean Guides (downloadable PDFs) which enable you to clean up your book before reading it! Visit my website!
Babar is a product of its (british colonialist, racist, sexist) time. I shouldn't hold that against it. But having the chickens show up at Babar's baby shower bearing, as a gift for the new family, baskets of their own eggs.... that is strongly fucked up
Babar and Celeste are terrible parents.
Not a Babar fan...
Babar and his queen Celeste are having a baby, turns out to be three.
Flora swallows a rattle, luckily Zephir gets the rattle out to save her.
Arthur, the big brother, lets go of the carriage and Alexander almost flies into a deep ravine, luckily the squirrels and the giraffe saves him.
Then Alexander almost floats into a crocodile, luckily Babar saves him.
The babies snug in bed and Babar and Celeste have time to think how lucky they are that everyone is fine.Cute story but there is several times that it gets confusing.
I wanted to read, and possibly own, collections of classic children's stories.
I know I've been read Babar before, at least I am familiar with him, but I don't remember how they sounded.
I didn't enjoy reading this book.
I also took issue with the page that shows Queen Celeste hearing her new triplets are not gaining weight properly and need to be supplemented.
One child is given a rattle.
Why is the rattle not safe for this child to play with?
I think these days, we are so concerned with every possible safety issue, that children have less freedom to roam and learn.
The details given and the story lines can be fun.
While the stories may be somewhat absurd they are still sort of interesting, and the vocabulary is more engaging than that of many children's books.
I'm partial to stories about family life, I guess (can't imagine why).
I just read it again to Abraham, who loves it, and as it needs to go back to the library I'm going to write down a couple quotes from it."Oh, how hard it is to wait for one's heart's desire!" (7)"'Truly it is not easy to bring up a family,' sighs Babar.
The language is very formal, and the vocabulary quite advanced for a "modern child," and I was a little surprised that my daughter sat through the entire thing without getting restless, and without asking the meaning of any words. I think little kids understand more in context than we parents are sometimes apt to give them credit for. I remember liking these books as a kid; I just don't recall them being quite so formal.
This is another book I've read several times, though I'm not sure we owned it when I was young. I've read it to our five-year-old as well.I'm dropping one star from my rating because the book is kinda scary; the children face horrible deaths three times because they're allowed to wander unsupervised! Yes, I understand that it's dramatic license, but I still find it appalling.
This is a little story about and elephant king and his subjects, but the story is centered around the elephants kings newly growing family. I am not sure how to uses this in any lesson plan, for it is just truly a story. I would use this book probably as a story I would just read to the class for fun.
Okay in my version of this book the text is way too small for comfortable dim light bedtime reading. The story is intricate and most of the time i skip half the sentences. Babar is of course delightful, and these books by the original author jean de brunhoff are a time capsule for colonial values. The anthropomorphic animals are adorable though
Charmingly illustrated as usual, but I have the sense we are wandering about a bit, story-wise, now that all our characters are established. Still a nice cautionary tale about the mischief unattended children tend to get into.
Another of Caoimhe's favorites, although I find it terrifying that the children in the story come close to violent death on a number of occasions. I guess life for elephant triplets was pretty rough in the 1800's.
ugh. i remember not being particularly fond of babar as a kid, and now i know why. the stories are long, obnoxiously wordy (try explaining this stuff to a 3 year old) and just blah. and sorry, but all the hideous things that happen to his children aren't amusing, they're just disturbing.
ok
A little long for my 4 year old, but a good classic
Fiction,Children's fiction
I personally like the illustrations in the Babar series. I read many to my son when he was a child.
The paternal side of Babar is shown in the story of his family. I saw a depth to a fictional character (an elephant father) that is rare in a children's book.
I enjoyed this book as a child, but when I started reading it to my daughter, I was a little horrified. This is colonial propaganda! Naturally, she loved it. . .
love Babar
This story is long and a bit disjointed which made it a little tedious to read, but suspense filled, which my 2 year old liked.
