https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/328536.Here_is_Your_War
This is a book form of Pyle's experiences on the ground in the front with the common combat soldier.
Through Pyle's writings he has a clear love and admiration for the soldier and it drips from every page and is highly contagious.
You find yourself laughing, longing, even loving the soldiers on the pages as well.
The sadness does not escape his writing.
Pyle does not get near the recognition he deserves, for he was a master of words and loyal to his subjects until his death only days away from VJ-Day by a sniper on a small Pacific Island.
This book is amazing.
It was published during the war (1943) by a war correspondent who lived with the soldiers.
He tell of what the day to day life was like for the American soldiers in Africa from November 1942 through June 1943, and he tells it in such a personal relaxed style that it is almost like reading a letter he has written to you.
As far as first hand accounts go this is one of the most engaging I have read, and it leaves me (once again) so unutterably thankful for those men and what they went through for me.
I'm on the look out for his other books!
I read this book over 60 years ago. I wondered how much I would enjoy it after so much time had passed. It was much different because I didn't have to rely only on my imagination. I have seen enough World War II movies over the years that I could fill in with real pictures. The writing was much better than I remember. Mr. Pyle is a wonderful story teller. Who knows; I may read it again.
Enjoyed reading an accounting of the North African theatre during WWII written real time by a coorespondant on the ground with the U.S. Army.
Since Mr. Pyle was a coorespondant, his writing was geared towards making those on the homefront understand what is going on with their troops, but at the same time, not scaring them, so it may seem like a more sanitized version of events than what some others have written.I would reccommend this to anyone interested in U.S. History, WWII, and the histroy of journalism.
This book is a compilation of articles Pyle wrote about and during the Allied invasion of Africa in 1942 through the defeat of the Axis armies there in mid-1943. Pyle writes from the front much of the time and his perspective is that of the men and women in the ranks--he refers to only two generals in the course of this book, but repeatedly quotes nurses, enlisted men, NCOs and a smattering of lower-ranking officers. It's an engaging, unusual history of the first U.S. ground campaign of World War Two.
During the Allied campaign in North Africa, journalist Ernie Pyle hung out with GIs and generals. His writing is engaging, and his love for the common soldier shines through. This book is a true gem covering stories both hilarious and heartbreaking.
Very highly recommended for anyone wanting good war front reporting and specifically a feel for the front lines in the African Campaign.Having previous reported World War II from London as it was being bombed, Ernie Pyle is selected to accompany the American portion of the North African invasion fleet.
It does not seem to be in Pyle to tell the folks at home that their Army is anything less than new at the business of war.The business of war – This will be the theme that ties together the beginning and the end of Here is You War. America’s soldiers start North Africa as the kids, workmen and everyday people you knew growing up, where ever you grew up.
“Here Is Your War” continues Pyle’s formula of sharing his contacts with the common soldier, just as he did with his earlier writings about the common man.
All in all, Pyle’s descriptions of how these men lived, what they felt, and how they survived reveal the inner strengths that a human being finds when that human is facing the worst possible time of his life.
He only shared the good times, the funny experiences, but only very rarely talked about what he saw and felt.
A compilation of the best of Ernie Pyle's war reportage from the North African campaign in WW2, this covers the period between the U.S. army landing in French-occupied Morocco and Algeria in November 1942 and the final surrender of Axis forces in Tunisia in April of 1943.
Ernie Pyle did a tremendous job of covering the whole process of invasion, occupation, advance, retreat and final victory, never bothering with the "big picture" but sketching a massive and enduring portrait of the war as it was experienced by individual soldiers.
It was an excellent read, Pyle did what I tried so hard to do--write about good, brave men who, in my war, flew under the radar of a hostile civilian media, and hateful America.
Pyle's humor shines through even in the worst times, but so does he write his praise of the fighting men.
My mother remembers the day she heard on the radio, as a young woman, the sad news of Ernie Pyle's death by a Japanese machine gun in the Pacific, very near the end of the war.
I 100% recommend this book to every American. Yes, it's definitely grounded in its time, but I can't think of a better book that gives the real picture of American soldiers in WWII. It's about North Africa, a campaign not many people know about it. Ernie Pyle was a genius with words and gone much too soon. This book is a tribute to him as well as portraying the suffering, inhumanity, and trauma of war. It also shows the amazing bravery, selflessness, and endurance of the "boys" over there. Must read!
Head to South Africa during WW II. The author doesn't just tell the story of war, but goes into the lives of soldiers, the people they meet and the area that is affected by the horrors of war.
not this version
A pretty good telling of America's part in the war in North Africa 1942 - 1943 from the perspective of a correspondent traveling with the troops.
It was a time where the addresses of soldiers would often be printed alongside their names when they were mentioned in the dispatches.(As an aside, here’s an allusion in the book which I didn’t know how to interpret: Ernie Pyle describes meeting a nurse named Mary Ann Sullivan who, along with other nurses, had been saving sugar for Pyle ever since reading a London dispatch where he complained about the lack of sugar.
I agree with another review I saw where someone mentioned Pyle’s obvious pride in the American troops.I can see why his readers and the soldiers liked him so much.
I've read a few of the war correspondent's columns in anthologies, but never the bulk of his work until I came across two of the three collections of his famed syndicated columns in book form at an antique store.So, 70 years after Pyle sent his stories from North Africa back to the 300 newspapers who ran his stuff, I ate up "Here Is Your War."Pyle's brisk newspaper prose, the short, tight sentences, the reader-friendly language, the storytelling format combined with the folksy, guy-next-door tone helped me understand why he became a legend both to soldiers, sailors and airmen and to mom and pop back home.His great technique of identifying sources not just with their name and rank but with their street address back home -- "The navigator was Lieutenant Davey Williams, 3505 Miller Street, Fort Worth, Texas." -- was not simply a feel-good for the man in uniform and a way to sell newspapers around the country but a tool that brought reality and truthfulness to the reporting Pyle did.
Ernie Pyle, World War II correspondent, lived the life on the front lines.
By his own admission, his job was not to report on the "Big Picture" of the War. Rather, he told the story of the grunts who were sleeping in water-filled foxholes, flying unheated fighter planes at high altitudes for hours, spending three or four days in an offensive without sleep or food.
Reading these accounts makes all the "little stuff" we complain about seem totally inconsequential.Ernie's writing style was conversational and makes for an easy read.
The anecdotes are frightening, funny, thought-provoking, and moving.
In this book, Ernie combines dispatches and other thoughts from early in the war, focusing on the Battle for Tunisia in North Africa.
Despite the rigors of life at the front and the essential military censorship, Ernie tells us what it was like for enlisted men and officers, fliers and tankers, artillerymen and infantry in a way that even today makes you feel as though you are present in this foxholes, on those troop carriers, and inside those tanks in long ago North Africa.
I enjoyed this book and look foreword to reading more of his work.
I read a later edition than the one described in Goodreads.
The forward was by James Mustich, Jr. I have always been curious about Ernie Pyle, but never have taken the time to learn much.
This book explains his popularity.
It is one of four books he wrote about WWII.
Given the state of media at the time of WWII, you can see his appeal as he travels with the forces.
He knew the people personally and mentioned them in his columns.
This book is about the US invasion into North Africa and fighting through Tunis.
This was somewhat slow going for me - fiction always goes faster.
And this is journalism, really, and meant to be read in short bites.
It is very of its time, and of the war, and I kind of loved it for that.
It brought you both to exactly where the men fighting were psychologically and physically and also to what it must have been like to be back in America reading about it from writers like Ernie Pyle.
He was clearly well loved, and the fact that he died in the war a few years later makes his writing even more poignant.
What a writer! Why isn’t Ernie Pyle accounted as one of the greatest American writers of the 20th Century? Why are his dispatches not included in the collections of short stories we study in school? His prose is sublime. "Here is Your War" is amazing. Pyle’s descriptive powers are unbelievable; and more importantly, his sentiments are deep, heartfelt, and touching. It is easy to understand how at his death by sniper bullet on some island in the Pacific he was mourned by all who read his newspaper columns. These stories are timeless.
Ernie Pyle was one of the very best and most widely read of the war correspondents in WW2.
This is a compilation of his stories from the campaign in Tunisia.
Pyle lived in the field with the regular "joes", sharing their dangers and hardships, writing their personal stories.
And boy, could he write!
You feel the cold, the dust, the fear, and the humor of life on the line.
Pyle loved the GIs and they loved him.
He named them and their hometowns in his columns so the folks back home could read about them.
This is what really good writing is all about.
This book is about the Tunisian campaign of Nov 1942 to June 1943.
But it is not about the campaign per se.
Much of the book talks about life in camp and there is one very interesting chapter about the challenges of moving men and equipment to a new front.
Pyle also covers the people, customs and countryside of Tunisia.
It is a very accessible book and an easy read - well worth checking out.
I will be looking for more of Pyle's books based on this one.
This book is a series of dispatches sent by journalist Ernie Pyle from the front of World War II in Northern Africa. It is sad, uplifting, humorous, and most of all, real. In his late 40s, Ernie Pyle left his safe home in the US and went to Africa to live in the sand and the the wind and the heat and the cold, sleeping on the ground just as the men did. He paints a picture of war from ground level that you're not soon to forget.
I really enjoyed this book. It felt like I was living in my hometown back during the war and reading Pyle's weekly column about how the war was progressing. I was amazed to read about a Sergeant Ralph Gower and another soldier from Maine in this book. You really come away with a sense for how ill prepared for war we were, and what it was like to be a soldier in North Africa back before the US became the military juggernaut it is today.
Pyle is an amazing writer who really has an affinity with his subject. He'll write about generals, but his real link is with the Air Force fighter crews and the infantry. He makes you feel like you are there. You get the whole picture of war - the boredom, the sacrifice, the anger, the cold, the absolute fear and frustration.
A collection of articles written by the Pulitzer Prize winning reporter. Interesting to see how reporting has changed in the last 60 years.Recommend to anyone with any interest in World War II or historical writing.
I have a first edition copy, 1943 printed for the People's Book Club with illustrations by Carol Johnson . Ernie Pyle has long been one of heroes and my favorite journalists , this -- his finest work.
A journalist's candid retelling of soldiering life in North Africa during WWII. It's really a series of loosely-connected vignettes, but Pyle provides a very clear image of the American mindset and the day-to-day facts of warfare.
As I love WW2 history this book is a gem. Ernie Pyle expertly captures the feeling of the common soldier. The book I have is an original from 1943. It was givin to me by my girlfriends' grandma as a Christmas gift.
