https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/16029151-i-have-a-dream
This picture book was amazing and came with an audio CD of Martin giving his "I have a dream" speech. My students loved this book. Even my pessimistic student shared how he loved everything about this book. This story splits the speech into separate pages and has beautiful illustrations into. It made it easy for students to understand his large and strong vocabulary.I suggest everyone to read this book to their children, students, etc :)
The book contains the full speech supplemented by specially commissioned pictures that were interpreting a quotation from the speech.
At the end was a commentary on the pictures, in which we are told what the artists were trying to capture.As for the actual speech, I do not know what more to add to the endless commentary.
here is Dr. King looking back at this speech in the context of the Vietnam War:https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PYGtT...
Until I've read this speech in its entirety I didn't know that before the mesmerizing I Have a Dream I Have a Dream and Let Freedom Ring Let Freedom Ring passages here Martin Luther King Jr. had used some similes, likening the Negro then to someone cashing a check, or collecting a debt under a promissory note which is the American constitution.
Martin Luther King Jr., for example, was a womanizer like President Clinton.
This book is gorgeous - the illustrations are so well done and the speech well shortened to go with them.
And as I read the full speech at the end, it hit me that I’ve never read or heard it in its entirety.
I suppose that’s not terribly surprising - I’m not American and I’ve never taken an American history course.
It’s funny sometimes how much I know about America and also how much I don’t.
I read this to Kait because of the holiday coming up - it was a bit too advanced for her, but she liked the illustrations anyway.
It was great to re-read my anniversary edition today. Such a simple speech, but so powerful, and there is much more to it then just the I Have a Dream section that is often quoted.And this year when Martin Luther King Jr Day falls on his actual birthday, I think I’ll start Black History Month early, similar to leap year, to make up for all those days that are shorted every other February. #BlackHistoryMonth#DiversityMonday#WeNeedDiverseBooks#OwnVoicesBecause we can✊
I'd love to see the Dillon's edition. Nelson's would be good, too. If you're buying one of these, be careful... some are abridged, some are mis-catalogued....If you do read it, please check the specific entry to make sure ISBN and other info. matches. And if you have librarian status, please fix errors... and if you don't, send a PM to me with all the data. Thanks!
His words, taken on their own, give me chills and bring tears to my eyes. But seeing Dr. King's beloved speech coupled with the beautiful paintings of Kadir Nelson is absolutely breathtaking. A must have for every classroom, school library, and personal collection.
و همچنانکه در این راه گام برمیداریم، باید عهد کنیم که همواره پیش خواهیم رفت. ما نمیتوانیم به عقب بازگردیم. برخیها، از هواخواهان حقوق مدنی میپرسند، «کی راضی خواهید شد؟» ما تا روزی که سیاهپوستان قربانی وحشت غیرقابل بیان بیرحمی پلیساند نمیتوانیم راضی شویم. تا روزی که تنهای خسته از سفر ما نتوانند بستری در مسافرخانههای شاهراهها و هتلهای شهرها پیدا کنند، نمیتوانیم راضی باشیم. تا روزی که تحرک اصلی ما فقط از محلههای اقلیتنشین کوچکتر به محلههای اقلیتنشین بزرگتر است نمیتوانیم راضی باشیم. تا روزی که شخصیت
تا روزی که تحرک اصلی ما فقط از محله‌های اقلیت‌نشین کوچکتر به محله‌های اقلیت‌نشین بزرگتر است نمی‌توانیم راضی باشیم.
تا روزی که سیاهپوستان می‌سی سی پی حق رای ندارند و سیاهپوستان نیویورک برآنند که چیزی ندارند که به آن رای دهند، نمی‌توانیم راضی باشیم.
می دانم که برخی از شما به دلیل مصیبت‌ها و رنج‌های سختی که تحمل کرده‌اید به اینجا آمده‌اید.
برخی از شما از سلول‌های تنگ زندان به اینجا آمده‌اید.
برخی از شما از جاهایی آمده‌اید که در راه آزادی‌طلبی خود، ناگزیر با توفان‌های آزار و خشونت پلیس روبرو شده‌اید.
I didn't really read this Kindle book but read the text online after watching the speech on YouTube.
This passage in particular struck me:"We can never be satisfied as long as the Negro is the victim of the unspeakable horrors of police brutality."In the intervening years, this aspect of racism doesn't seem to have improved very much as the events of the past 6 months have shown.
We must not allow our creative protest to degenerate into physical violence.
Again and again, we must rise to the majestic heights of meeting physical force with soul force."
First time actually reading the entire speech...so beautiful! I couldn't help but feel sad, that despite the progress that has been made, there is still so far to go.
I put off reading this one until today. Honestly, I get lost in Kadir Nelson's work. It's luminous and powerful and the perfect complement to one of the most luminous and powerful speeches of the 20th century. I never get tired of reading/ hearing that speech and I never tire of viewing Nelson's art. A must purchase for all school libraries. You may think you have enough MLK books; but you don't. Your collection is not complete without this one.
In the illustration that accompanies the words "We hold these truths to be self-evident, that all men are created equal" it is hard to differentiate individual people, giving the sense of equality yet it also gives the sense of the sheer number of people.The dream section of the speech is very much about the country's youth and a few pages later, we see the faces of children in great detail catching the very essence and emotion of the I Have a Dream speech - that children are the future of the United States and we will be a better nation if we work together instead of against each other.This is a inspirational book for kids, kids who were born long after Dr. King's death and for whom he may only be a figure in history and a day off from school.
Although Martin Luther King Jr. is the author of this story, the way in which a time in history was broken down into shorter, understandable elements, is remarkable.
This story highlights Dr. Martin Luther King’s speech delivered in August in 1963, and selects certain quotes from his speech that were powerful and inspiring.
The emotions that the illustrator captured were created to connect the inspiring words on the page to the emotions that were felt during that time.
Students in younger grades can do a picture walk and re-tell the story in their own words.
As I read I moved back and forth between establishing wide shots, medium range shots, and close-ups.
Some of the close ups and wide shots are extreme.
One of the great aspects of his art is how he generously uses the full double page spread to emphasize either expanse or intense closeness.
The hyper-realism of his close ups and mid shots is balanced by the impressionistic style he uses on the wide shots with backgrounds.
Illustrating King's speech was a great way for someone who can do both writing and pictures to allow full focus on matching the pictures to an already known powerful text.
I Have A Dream by Dr. Martin Luther King Jr, artwork by Kadir Nelson; Random House 2012 (original text 1963); Pages:20; Genre: Speech/Historical; Grade level:K-3; Lexile Level: 1130; Guided Reading Level:Q In this beautiful abridged, picture book copy Dr. King's "I Have a Dream" speech comes alive.
NYS ELA CCS RL 5.2Another lesson that I can have the students do is to read this speech by MLK and then look at newspaper clippings from Southern states where some of the rallies for Civil Rights were held.
There could be no better pairing than the words of Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. and the illustrations of Kadir Nelson.
The forty page picture book comes with a CD of King's famous "I have a dream" speech from 1963, allowing the reader to hear the prosody with which he spoke, that drew in so many listeners from that point forward.
Some pages illustrate Dr. King presenting the speech, while Nelson intermixes images of King's words come true ("I have a dream that one day...little black boys and black girls will be able to join hands with little white boys and white girls as sisters and brothers.
The power of Martin Luther King’s words meet the beauty of Nelson’s art in this luminous picture book.
Using lines pulled directly from the latter part of King’s famous I Have a Dream speech, Nelson shows young readers how history was made that day.
Kadir moves back and forth between capturing the magnificence of King and his speech to images of what the world being dreamed of would look like.
This book belongs in every library, both for the historical power of the moment being captured, but also for its exceptional beauty and art.
In this book we will hear Dr. Martin Luther King Jr.'s original speech or dream that he had.
The talk moves that I used are activating prior knowledge because I wanted students think back to the book that we had previously read.
Students were also then able to make connections with a previously read text.
3. I chose I Have a Dream because it connects with a previously read text that we read, but then at the same time expands on what What Was Your Dream, Dr. King?
I also chose this text because it tells students the exact speech that Martin Luther King Jr. actually made to all those people.
It does its job in briefly giving some of the key points of his speech, while allowing it to be understandable to children.The speech takes place in Washington D.C on the steps of the Lincoln memorial.
They depict the scene as a slightly sunny blue sky day, with only slight cloud coverage.
The artist used oil paint to illustrate the people and setting of the book.They give illustrations of the Lincoln Memorial, and its courtyard that is filled with equal rights activists of all races.
It gives a picture of both black and white children holding hands and spinning in a circle all together smiling and laughing together.
I Have a Dream contains exactly that – the famous speech Dr. King delivered on August 28, 1963 to gathered hordes of Americans.
And even better yet, the speech is set off with the paintings of fourteen different artists who all wished to pay honor to Dr. King’s memory through their contributions.Various people may argue over the degree to which the federal government should participate in disallowing discrimination, but none can deny that Dr. King’s speech – and entire life – are hallmarks in the history of the 20th century.Conclusion.
I absolutely loved the illustrations throughout this book!
Kadir Nelson painted such a beautiful image of Dr. King and the March on Washington.
The images were just perfect even down to the emotion shown in Dr. King's face as he gave his speech.
I listened to this on CD as I looked along through the illustrations and it just brought the speech to life.
It was quite inspiring for me and it would definitely inspire our young students during a study of this time period.
It is well deserving of the 2013 Caretta Scott King Illustrator Honor and something I plan to incorporate into my classroom when discussing this.
Every page in this gorgeously illustrated book evokes the memory of Dr. King and the power of his words and speech to inspire others to work toward change.
The entire "I Have a Dream" speech is in the back of the book, and the oil illustrations accompany excerpts from that speech given in August 1963.
Several of the pages made me well up emotionally at how far we've come and how far we have to go.
I loved the two pages with two hands, one white, one black, clasped in friendship and imagined the possibilities.
This is another stunning book from Kadir Nelson.
Kadir Nelson’s stirring paintings capture King’s passion, vision and determination on this historic day. Showing literal and figurative scenes from King’s speech, and close-ups of King himself, Nelson conveys the many emotions wrapped up in these inspiring words. The complete text of the speech is printed at the back, and an accompanying CD lets young children hear King’s original delivery of this famous speech.
This book is one of my favorites! A classic. Dr. King's speech was about his dream of a world where segregation no longer existed. The there would be equality for everyone. The issues that the spoke about then are issues that we still have today. This will definitely be apart of my library in my classroom.
I shared this book with a group of kids at the recent book fair and they haven't stopped bugging me about readying this book for checkout. It's a beautiful book. Kadir Nelson, with his starkly realistic paintings, brings us up close to the words of Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr.'s famous speech. Mesmerizing.
I will admit that my eyes filled with tears before I opened this book. Kadir Nelson creates a stunning accompaniment to King's famous speech. Beautiful images, some taken from historic photographs, bring renewed life to King's message. Includes the entire speech in the back and an audio recording.The perfect gift book.
I cannot overstate how gorgeous the art in this book is. With extreme closeups and stunning colors, this is an excellent kid-friendly distillation of MLK's I Have a Dream speech. Full text of the speech is included, as is an audio CD of the full speech.
It’s been awhile since I read his famous “I Have a Dream” speech in its entirety. It’s as moving and powerful now as ever before. This book with Kadir Nelson’s lush illustrations is a great example of how picture books are sometimes works of art.
i bought this book because i teach this every year. it comes with the original audio recording on CD which i immediately listened to with my daughters. the illustrations are beautiful.a wonderful tribute to a phenomenal speech.
Amen! This dream, it lives inside all of us. Equality for all mankind, regardless of skin colour, religion, gender or any other form of discrimination. This world is in turmoil, but hopefully we are indeed marching forward.
