https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1472408.Bodies_Are_Where_You_Find_Them
"Have you got a line on the corpse?" Rourke asked. "I can't help wondering where she'll turn up next.""Bodies are where you find them," said Shayne cheerfully.   The cover above is of the book I read for this review. Due to a recent surge in collectors buying pulp novels mainly for the cover art, prices have skyrocketed. Not only for first printings, but for any pulp covers. It has been a long time since I've read a book this fragile. The book is intact, but I was fully aware that one shift in m
Now Shayne has put enough other people in the frame to know what it feels like to be in the frame.
Brett Halliday wearing the eye patch he wore since a childhood incident with barb wire.In the back of the book there was a short bit about the real life detective that Halliday based Michael Shayne on which I found very interesting.
I'm long past the days when I can stand a steady diet of pulp novels, but spending time racing around Miami Beach evaluating clues, feeling the desperation of being on the run, and taking the punches along with Shayne made for a very nice Sunday afternoon.
It's not just the bodies that are all over the place it is the ideas that go through Shayne's head.Before I go any further I'd like to share the artwork from my tasteless 1980s reissue paperback:And a google will illuminate you even further with an entire set of these beauties.As I pointed out with my first experience of Mike Shayne things are told in broad strokes; dumb bad guys and tough as old boots good guy with a friend who'll bleed for him on a regular basis, plot as convoluted as they come and Mike Shayne squeezing himself out of a jam just in time.
I find with hard-boiled detectives they normally blur the line between good and evil but they always seemed to always be a hero; well in all the ones I’ve read, I’ll be happy to be proven wrong.
But with Mike Shayne he often crossed the line, not particularly into evil but he was a deeply flawed detective that found me groaning at some of his actions.The novel is a typical hard-boiled plot, with some political thriller aspects thrown in; Shayne has backed one candidate to be mayor and now he finds himself being framed.
I'd have to see the movie again to really compare, but here's a quick synopsis:Our hero, private detective Michael Shayne, is about to hop on the train to New York with his beloved new wife when he gets an emergency call at his nearby office.
When he gets back to his office after dropping her off at the station, he discovers the unknown lass has been strangled, and he barely has time to hide her body when the police drops in to investigate a reported disturbance.Shayne cons a reporter buddy into helping him, but they can't do anything before a sudden visit from a different detective along with a fellow who happens to be running for mayor.
Bodies Are Where You Find Them is the fifth Mike Shayne novel and was definitely written by David Dresser before Brett Halliday became a house name for the writers that followed.
It features big redheaded Mike Shayne at his finest, accused of murder by Peter Painter, hiding sexy young doped up women from his wife, carting corpses around, getting in fistfights with bouncers, avoiding road blockades, breaking into sanitariums, and concocting wild explanations for everything that is going on.
Right from the start this book is filled with nonstop action that simply never lets up right up until Shayne gathers all the suspects in the parlor and pulls his big reveal.
I enjoyed this. That noir syntax...the multiple twists...our hero on the edge of ruin..hard livers and wild goings on!Fair to better outing! Probably will try more with Mike Shayne..he's pretty smooth!
I read this because it was the semi-inspiration for Kiss Kiss, Bang Bang, one of my favorite movies. The story itself however is closer to Weekend At Bernie’s. A funny, entertaining mystery with a private eye that’s actually not a repellent misogynist and/or sexist! The dialogue isn’t as great as Halliday’s contemporaries and dialogue is half of why people read PI books based in this era. But you could do worse.

I have to state first of all that I picked up this book because it was the inspiration for one of my favorite movies. I enjoyed the book a lot. I am a big fan of the noir movies and am looking forward to reading more of Brett Halliday`s books.
I have to state first of all that I picked up this book because it was the inspiration for one of my favorite movies. I enjoyed the book a lot. I am a big fan of the noir movies and am looking forward to reading more of Brett Halliday`s books.
This is the first Mike Shane book I've read, and I enjoyed it - it's a fast moving well paced written plot with lots of twists and turns, making for a fast, good read!
Synopsis: Shayne isn't one to say no to a gorgeous doll but he changes his tune when he finds her cold and lifeless body on his bed. It's a frame-up.
Δεν είναι το πρώτο βιβλίο του Χάλιντεϊ που διαβάζω, με ήρωα πάντα τον κοκκινομάλλη ιδιωτικό ντετέκτιβ Μάικ Σέιν, μιας και πέρυσι τον Δεκέμβριο διάβασα το "Εισιτήριο για το θάνατο", ελάχιστα κατώτερο από αυτό που μόλις τελείωσα.
Όταν μια κοπέλα, εμφανώς μεθυσμένη ή ναρκωμένη, θέλει να μιλήσει στον Σέιν στο γραφείο του για έναν υποψήφιο δήμαρχο και έπειτα αυτή βρίσκεται στραγγαλισμένη στο κρεβάτι του, τα πράγματα περιπλέκονται, ειδικά αν κάποιος έχει σαν στόχο να βάλει τον Σέιν στην φυλακή.
Η πλοκή είναι αρκετά τρελή για να την πάρει κανείς στα πολύ σοβαρά, αλλά μου άρεσε.
Γενικά το πρόσημο είναι θετικό και ο Μάικ Σέιν αρχίζει να μου αρέσει σαν χαρακτήρας.
I feel like the grand old tradition of hard-boiled, pulp fiction detective novels is overdue for a resurgence.
You have your detective Mike Shayne, a hard-drinking, hard-smoking, tough guy who works endless hours, gets beaten up a lot, beats people up a lot and has been set straight by his perfect, understanding wife.Incidentally, his wife is not present for most of this novel, giving him permission to be on less than his best behaviour for the adventure.
During which time, in spite of a cunning plan by The Baddies, he manages to eventually Save The Day, mostly by being a tough guy who can stay smart whilst drinking too much bourbon.
I, like a lot of people, decided to read this book because Kiss Kiss, Bang Bang was roughly (very roughly) inspired by it. I was not disappointed. Well written, a quick read, lots of trash talking, hard drinking, but with a tiny touch of class from the lead character, Mike Shayne. I'm definitely a fan, now I just have to find the other Mike Shayne books by Halliday so I can read them.
يقال بأن فيلم Kiss, Kiss, Bang, Bangمقتبس من هذه الرواية .. بالنسبة للفيلم حبيته كثير .. و بسببه احتمال اقرأ الرواية .. لكنهم يقولون ان الاحداث مختلفة بين الاثنين .. لا يهم اهم شيء طبيعة الشخصيات لا تتغير .. حبيت سخريتهم و لذاعتهم بالحكي
This is the first of these "Michael Shayne' books i've read and it was pretty enjoyable. The plot was fast-paced and had enough twists to keep me guessing.
First Mike Shayne series book I read, and I'm hooked. Great example of fun pulp from the golden era.
The Michael Shayne books are an easy read. There aren't too many books written as a series any more. I love old pulp novels although this one is nothing special.
Joko tämä oli suomennettu muistuttamaan poikakirjaa tuhisevine vihaisine naisineen tai sitten se jo alunperin oli sellainen.
