https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/3895.The_Barefoot_Contessa_Cookbook
Here are the dishes I've tasted and the cookbook club cooks who made them:Sheela - Lobster Salad in Endive: You can't go wrong with quality lobster.
No leftovers with this one.Molly - Rosemary White Bean Soup: Pureed and delicous.
Really an amazing soup and surprisingly right for a summer's evening.Gretchen - Grilled Tuna Nicoise Platter: Very beautiful presentation and quite delicious.
Me - Fresh Fruit Tart: Ina can turn anyone into a baker with her simple and well-tested recipes.
Additional thoughts:I've made the Key Lime curd tart on a couple occasions and it is always a star in the center of the table.
Love Ina!
Listen, the woman knows her way around the kitchen and she's not afraid of a stick of butter, which I like in a chef.
Paula Deen doesn't skimp on the butter either, but usually whatever she is cooking ends up getting deep fried and then used as a delivery system for some kind of mayonnaise product too -- and I just can't hang with that.
Whereas Ina will definitely butter you up, she at least has the common decency throw on some fresh herbs and add some roasted vegetables so even your cholesterol feels like good and evil have once again been righted in the world.
Less guilt is all I'm saying.
Less guilt.
The recipes in this book turn out perfectly EVERY time and I've made over half of them. Buy it.
It’s a classic and one of the best! Ina can do no wrong.
This one is a great one.
The cheddar corn chowder is A+++ delicious and I make it quite often.
I have opened this book many times, sometimes just to look at the pictures and sometimes because I actually want to cook something from it.
It's a well loved, and well used book in my collection.My one complaint about this book is the amount of food the recipes make.
I think the above mentioned corn chowder serves 20 in the book?
It's obvious to me that she just took the recipes from her catering/restaurant days and didn't modify them much for the home cook.
Ina Garten's cookbooks do everything you need.
If I didn't have any technique in the kitchen and had to pick a cookbook to last forever (or in this case, a series) it would be hers.
Rich, lovely recipes that are very approachable.
I almost always get rave reviews for anything I make from these books and I have made or eaten a large portion of them.
It is very hard to find cookbooks that can provide you recipes for every course without compromising the dessert.
Not our dear Mrs. Garten - the baking recipes in this books are EXCELLENT.
I cook 3 meals a day for my family, and I love the Barefoot Contessa Cookbooks. She's got great advice on preparing things ahead of time, how to cook for a larger group, and putting together a complete meal. Her recipes are best for people who are already pretty comfortable in the kitchen, and the baking is less reliable than the savory foods, but every one of her cookbooks is worth having.
During a particularly challenging time in my life, I found and fell in love with Ina. Many of her recipes are staples in my cooking repertoire, and I have yet to find a Barefoot Contessa cookbook that I don't thoroughly enjoy. Great for ANY kitchen and cook!!!
This is by far my favorite cookbook. The pages are stuck together I use it so much. Curried coucous? Yes, please!
Here’s my verdict on The Barefoot Contessa Cookbook by Ina Garten.To Read: Yes. It’s well-written with some stories about Garten’s personal life and great cooking tips.
There is also a foreward by Martha Stewart that you won’t want to skip over.To Look At: Yes. There are beautiful photos of each recipe, which I think is standard for all of Ina Garten’s cookbooks.To Cook From: Yes. I haven’t made a lot of recipes from this cookbook, but I have made plenty of Barefoot Contessa recipes.
I have looked through a few others, and I’m not sure The Barefoot Contessa Cookbook is the one I would pick if I had to choose just one.
Beautiful cookbook, recipes that are easy to follow and no extra words that can complicate a beginner. Helpful tips on where to buy hard to find ingredients. The lentil soup recipe in this cookbook is one of my favorites. This is a well rounded cookbook with recipes that can please every guest.
Amazing! I love the little tidbits of advice and the whys of how it is. Good solid pictures with all the recipes and easy to follow instructions. Might be for cooks that have a reasonable know how around the kitchen already.
This cookbook by Ina Garten was great. I got quite a few great recipes. I will be making some great food for my boyfriend bryann and I
good
4 stars- Ms. Jenn
about what I expected with a few good keeper type recipes...many old traditional ones that I have used in the past from her or others.
Here's why I like Ina Garten's recipes.
They are simple but use the highest quality ingredients she can find.
They are simply assembling the cheapest "edible" ingredients.
I love the Garten is clear about exactly which ingredients make her dishes so good.
This cookbook was published in 1999.
That may make it seem dated, but it also gives a lovely familiarity to the recipes.
This may have been an accompanying cookbook to the Barefoot Contessa show on the Food Network.
In either case, most recipes can be found on their website.
A lovely cookbook to have on hand.
I had plans to see Ina Garten speak in Wilmington but had none of her books!
It's a lovely cookbook; the recipes are all enticing, simple, and straightforward.
In all of her recipes, she is very aware of her audience--the home cook and entertainer, not the chef or caterer.
I was pleased to see how her philosophy echoes mine--the first time you try a recipe, you follow it EXACTLY.
I also was pleased to see that she always uses recipes.
I also have her newest book, Foolproof, and think I'll get more.
Another of her comments is that just one good recipe makes a book worthwhile.
It does not have a million recipes like some other cookbooks.
But what it does have is a nice collection of classics and favorites, most with excellent illustrations, organized by food type (i.e. main dish, dessert, appetizer).
My only criticism has nothing to do with the author or the food--but the fact is, some of the fancier ingredients are not available rurally as they would be in a suburban or urban area; even our local farmer's market closed, taking away or fresh produce.
Still, the book is quite fine, and I don't see why reasonable substitutions would be a problem for most recipes.
Everything I've made from it has worked.
By "old fashioned" I mean comfort food, probably too high in calories to eat every night but delicious none the less.
This lady knows her stuff and her recipe writing style is friendly and chatty.
As for the recipes themselves, her Cheddar Corn Chowder has warmed us on many a cold night, her Roasted Brussels Sprouts finally convinced my family that these much maligned vegetables are not meant to be eaten as a punishment and her Maple-Oatmeal Scones made me a favorite invitee to any "bring a plate" function.
Did I say I love this book?
i'm behind in my reading challenge and i technically read this thing cover to cover!i learned so much--how to make a tasteful vegetable plate, how Sunday lunch is a wonderful opportunity to entertain, how using both oil and butter to cook is the way to go.
thank you ina, you culinary goddess who keeps reminding readers that they can get speciality items by "mail order" in her pre-Internet world and had the confidence to name drop Steven Spielberg and Lauren Bacall.also i loved how much we learned about jeffrey with regards to brownies (he ate all of her test brownies, and she courted him with homemade brownies in college).
i need an opportunity to make an eggplant spread or a perfect roast chicken!!
This is my favorite of all the Barefoot Contessa cookbooks. Favorite recipes that I've come back to repeatedly are the kitchen clambake (layers of sautéed leeks, potatoes, kielbasa and various seafood cooked indoors in a pot) and fresh lemonade (1 cup of freshly squeezed lemon juice, 1/2 - 3/4 cup superfine sugar {to taste}, 1 cup crushed ice and 4 cups water - combine all in a blender). I love the simplicity of her recipes and the lack of fussiness. I get most of my cookbooks from the library, but this is one I've purchased to have on hand.
When I first got this cookbook I took it to bed and drooled over the recipes. When I started actually making ina garten recipes, people were tricked into thinking i was a really fabulous cook. So...if she can do it for me, she can transform fresh, healthy (well, except for the butter) whole foods, vegetables and fruits into amazing food. Friends and family are always clammoring for the recipes after trying creations I make out of this book...and i do give the credit all to the barefoot contessa.
As with all of the Ina Garten recipes I've encountered to date, which is quite a few, these are all very straightforward, emphasize fresh foods, and are extremely yummy. After signing this out from my public library, I promptly tabbed a bunch of pages and made six or seven of the recipes. Each was great, and I decided it was officially a "keeper." That is not to say that I wouldn't be returning the library copy; instead, I purchased my own copy just recently.
I love this cookbook and often flip through it just for ideas and the pictures. The Fresh Corn Salad, Parmesan Croutons, Pan-Fried Onion Dip, Sun-Dried Tomato Dip, Lemondade and Outrageous Brownies were incredible. There are also several other recipes on my "to try" list. I just really like Ina and her party attitude. I love to entertain and having the food done before people arrive.
The Barefoot Contessa Cookbook By Ina Garten This is a beautifully illustrated cookbook. The colored pictures have really helped my in food presentation. I continue to make the home made granola receipe, it's very good. I've watched Ina on the cooking channel, so having her cookbook is fun.
Absolute go-to, from the day I started cooking in earnest up until now, when I barely have to look at recipes to make a really cool meal. Ina Garten has taught me so much about cooking, picking the right ingredients, and putting together a visually stunning home-cooked meal and table. The grilled lemon chicken salad in this book - yum - I think I could eat once a week and never get tired of it!
I love the Barefoot Contessa (Have you ever seen her TV show? She's reminds me of the guy who used to paint on PBS - very mellow and soothing). I'm not the cook (rather the baker) in our house, but I love this cookbook. Her recipes are homey, easy and delicious. Surprise, I love the bread pudding make with croissants. Hoping for another of her cookbooks this Christmas!
