https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/815854.The_Sand_Pebbles
A fast-tracked selection process winnowed my choices to two: John Keay’s China: A History; and Richard McKenna’s The Sand Pebbles.
It’s the first thing that pops up when you search for “China history book.” The Sand Pebbles was the offbeat choice.
But first, I had to give The Sand Pebbles a quick test drive.McKenna: “‘Hello, ship,’ Jake Holman said under his breath.” Whoa, whoa, whoa.
The Sand Pebbles tells the story of the San Pablo, a United States gunboat patrolling the riverways of China in the late 1920s, just as the country is beginning its descent into a Civil War between the loyalist Kuomintang and the Communist Party of China.
Whether this means that Art mirrors life and all service on all warships is essentially a repetitive cycle in which almost everybody who has ever served has seen a little guy best a bigger one by doing something vicious to his nose, or if my father's reading supplemented his own memory in a creative way, or indeed that some stories are simply too big to be merely contained in books as we learn from Don QuixoteIt is not a great book, for instance there is a scene when the Lieutenant (view spoiler)[ who is the captain (hide spoiler)] sits down to have a conversation with the senior man of the Chinese shadow crew and both pointedly don't drink their tea.
The romantic angle works for the movie, but here McKenna seems to be making a much different point in having Miss Eckert as part of his tale.
For each of these men, trapped aboard a small ship in a world that they do not understand and of which they are truly not a part, there is something that pushes them through the frightening situation they are in, and for Holman it is Shirley Eckert.
I closed the book understanding much more about the era it addresses and the individual characters portrayed.
He finds that the small command of the "San Pablo", nicknamed the "Sand Pebble" by its crew, is still subject to Navy protocol because its captain, Lt. Collins, is a by-the-book commander who insists on daily morning formations in dress whites; Holman chafes at spending time standing at attention while his engine room demands his attention.
A short story he wrote, "King's Horsemen", about life on a Yangtze gunboat, became the foundation for "The Sand Pebbles", complete with the author's reverential respect for the workings of ships' engine rooms.Reviewer's note: The historical period covered by "The Sand Pebbles" occurs during the 1925-1927 Chinese Revolution.
Now I am on to the Award winners of the year, of which there are six.The Sand Pebbles are a nickname for the crew of the San Pablo, an old US Navy gunboat whose job is to patrol the Yangtze River, show the US flag, and protect American missionaries and businessmen.
Chiang Kai Shek was in those years a fairly young Chinese communist fomenting a revolution to do away with the power of the ruling dynasty, the war lords, and the unequal treaties that foreign businesses benefited from in China.Jake Holman, a machinist, as the central character, is a rebellious loner who loves machines more than people.
He knew men who experienced the time period covered in the novel and I suspect that Jake Holman is based on the author himself.
Like Holman the novel takes a neutral stance on the political situation in China during the 1920's.
It's simply a story of a man who prefers machines over people, but finds himself in a situation where he is forced to deal with people.
Holman would prefer to stay out of all the drama, but events dictate otherwise.
Like it or not he's pulled into the whole mess.Both an adventure novel and a drama The Sand Pebbles is an easy read and one that has aged well.
En particulier, Sand Pebbles fait penser à "Prospero et Caliban" d'Octave Mannoni qui soutient la thèse que dans la situation coloniale les rapports sociaux sont réglés par un grand nombre de rites qui soutiennent le pouvoir du colonisateur sur le colonisé.Les événements du roman se déroulent une année avant l'insurrection de Shanghai de 1927 décrite dans la "Condition humaine" d'André Malraux.
Il est surpris de constater que les repas sont préparés par des coolies chinois qui ne devaient pas être en principe sur un navire de la marine américaine.
In the Navy, stationed in Japan, I was waiting for a seat on a standby Air Force flight when it was announced that flight operations were shutting down for 24 hours for runway maintenance.
Pacing the enormous waiting room to give my hindquarters a break I'd noticed but passed by a seat with an abandoned book; The Sand Pebbles.
The normal operation of the ship must carry on while knotty political and personal puzzles defy resolution.
By the time I disembarked at Travis AFB in California I felt that I was meant to have read this book.
Because McKenna got to write a big book full of color and fascinating characters and IDEAS!!
He writes about steam engineering in a way that compares to Robert Pirsig's "Zen and the Art of Motorcycle Maintenance" The other idea he deals with is CHINA!!The Sand Pebbles is about a sailor, a machinist's mate, assigned to a gunboat patrolling on a tributary of the Yangsee River during the 1920s.
Needless to say, the get overtaken by events of history.Richard McKenna was himself a China sailor on the Yangsee before the war and he was writing about the generation before him.
the movie was great, but the novel was way better.
Age and experience lent a new depth to my latest reading.
I saw the movie as a child before I read the novel so I have ready images of all the characters and action,and I knew how it ended.
Obviously, this does not stop me from visiting the crew of the San Pablo now and again, in spite of the tragedy that unfolds for them.I believe my military experience gives me a perspective of familiarity with the characters and the action a non veteran would not posses.

He died before knowing that The Leopard had a publisher, or that it would come to be regarded as Italy's finest novel and the best historical novel of this century.In in similar fashion an American,Richard McKenna, after a thirty-year career as an enlisted man in the U.S. Navy working through ranks in engine rooms, often in gunboats in or near China, responded to his lifetime of loving books by taking up writing in the late 1950s.
Set in China, the book tells the story of an old U.S. Navy gunboat, the San Pablo, and her dedicated crew of "Sand Pebbles" on patrol in the far reaches of the Yangtze River to show the flag and protect American missionaries and businessmen from bandits.
"Four things were important on a ship: bunk, locker, place at the mess table and the engine room.
I did not realise that this book won the 1963 Harper Prize Novel Contest but it was surely well deserved.
I agree with every word (if not the grammar) in the following statement: ""What I like about The Sand Pebbles," writes Elizabeth Janeway, one of the distinguished judges of the Harper Prize Novel Contest, "is its vitality and scope, its vivid sense of life and time and place; the way it gets outside people's minds and into what happened.
I'd seen the movie (years ago) and was hoping that the book would provide a bit more background and character development.
There is so much more to the lead character, Jake Holman, then is touched on in the movie.
They aren't the same thing, but some of the dialogue in the book between the missionaries and the U.S. Navy riverboat personnel could just as easily be overheard today in a Starbucks debate.
A long book, but I never reached a point where I couldn't wait for it to end.
I didn't remember the ending, and because of that I easily remained engrossed in the book.
A marvellous book. And a rare instance in that the movie is also exceptional. I enjoy books such as this, where the main character stands up for what he believes, even if in the end it costs him dearly. That in itself generates in me a feeling of respect. In many ways the theme reminds me of From Here to Eternity. Another book that is probably so good because the author knew first-hand of what he wrote. As a former engine-room sailor though, I don't know that I can quite so excited about steam engines.
The Sand Pebbles is one of my favorite movies and I always wanted to read the book. It is the first novel by a man who actually served on a U.S. Gunboat in China during the 1930's. It is a riviting tale about the Chinese revolution, Imperialism, missionaries, duty, honor and sacrifice.
The story revolves around the events that take place in and around the ship over the course of a year or so, and there's isn't really an overarching plot, except to the extent that these goings on relate to the connection between the ship and various missionaries at an outpost called "China Light".
To some extent these episodes all cohere with the overall "meaning" of the novel, but in terms of "plot", they make book read more like a series of somewhat interconnected but nonetheless independent "stories" arranged in a chronological order.3) Characters.
Few things in life are better than receiving a book as a gift and it turns out to really be a perfect recommendation. A kind-hearted Vietnam Veteran gave me this novel. He knew I'm a navy veteran and figured I'd like it. He said it's one of his favorites. Well, now it's one of my favorites, and I can't imagine a navy veteran who wouldn't enjoy this story. Also, it's a fantastic piece of historical fiction, and has stimulated my interest in modern Chinese history, much like "The Three Body Problem" has for its readers.
The paper tiger of the San Pablo's small crew and it's three pound cannon is the only force guarding American interests - missionaries, factories, mines and more, this far up the Yangtze and appearances have to be maintained no matter how ultimately ineffective the reality may be.By the second part of the book the Chinese have seen through it.
There is no place for the men of the San Pablo towards the end of the book - their country has for all intents and purposes abandoned them and there is no place in this new, alien China they find themselves in.One last thing I will mention is that that most readers will be sent running for a dictionary of mechanical engineering by about fifteen pages in.
NATIONALISM [Cho-jen speaking] China's weakenss was in believing that all men were brothers.
But they were barred absolutely from America as an inferior race, .THE HAZARD OF LOVE: Lt. Collins frowned.
Love was not as common a hazard in China as syphilis, but it could destroy a good man much more surely.
You become able to feel directly just a hind of hre nearness and love of God, Who is always all around you without your knowing.
RELIGION: [Collins] "Every padded cell in America is filled with people who talk to God. How are you people any different?"
It's a philosophic novel that asks the question, `Who's life is this?' I believe that in all our lives, there is a tension between what we would like to do, what we would like to be, and what the rest of the world tells us what we ought to do, indeed, what we will do.
The protagonist of this book, Jake Holman is a misfit in life, forced into the Navy to avoid reform school, he drifts through the Navy without meaning or purpose until he learns to work on the ship's engines.
The crew get caught in the middle of the revolution, and the main character (as in the movie) falls in love with the daughter of a minister.The author actually spent time on one of the gunboats during his service in the Navy.
He writes in fine detail of the now-historical events that eventually launched him to fame as an author.
This is a book for those who like to read historical adventures with romance, with a touch of fiction which you know may have very well been true.David Lucero, author
Novela (no histórica porque aunque está muy bien localizada en los eventos de un tiempo y lugar concretos prefiere hacer ficción como eje central de su trama).Lo que nos cuenta.
En 1926 y en China, Jake Holman, maquinista de la armada estadounidense, es destinado a la cañonera USS San Pablo, una antigualla que data de la Guerra de los Bóxers pero que todavía presta servicio de patrulla en los afluentes más apartados y desconocidos del río Yangtsé.
El país está en un momento muy tenso tanto por movimientos internos como por la actitud cada vez más hostil con los extranjeros en el país.
A terrific book about an American patrol ship on the Yangtze river in China in the 1930's. One of the few books that really grasped the differences between the West and the East. Made into a terrific film.For a look at the longer review, please go here:http://www.epinions.com/review/The_Sa...
During the 1925-1927 Chinese Revolution centered in Shanghai, an American gunboat on the Yangtze River Patrol steams between Hankow and Paoshan.
Aboard the San Pablo is a machinist, Jake Holman, who develops mixed loyalties between his crew, who call themselves "Sand Pebbles" in an allusion to the ship's name, the local Chinese, and the "coolies" who do the heavy labor on the San Pablo.
So, too, has the extraordinary history of the Yangtze River Patrol, where American gunboats steamed up and down China's Yangtze River for almost a century, from 1854 to 1949, giving armed reinforcement to American missionaries and business interests at treaty ports and European concessions.
The book tells the story of an old U.S.Navy gunboat, the San Pablo, and her crew of 'Sand Pebbles' on patrol in the far reaches of the Yangtze River to show the American Flag and protect American missionaries and businessmen from bandits.
The arrival of machinist's mate Jake Holman, a sort of maverick loner, dramatically alters the lives of the crew.
In the movie version, Steve McQueen is perfectly cast as Jake Holman.
If you haven't got time to read it, then see the movie.
I feel I understand the China of today better after reading this book.
I read this in high school over 50 years ago and was reminded of it this week when the movie was shown on tv.Excellent book and affecting me in two substantial ways: 1) Introduced me to a reality of "gunboat diplomacy"; which later lead me to read "the Corps"  series by Griffin 2) The author's description of life on the river boat USS San Pablo, was so sharp that I could feel the  vibrations from the engines.
This experience kept me from entering the US Navy on the "buddy  system" because buddy wanted to be, and did, become a diesel mechanic.
(Jake) Holman's growth against the backdrop of China's own revolutionary growing pains in 1926 and 1927.While McKenna's omniscient voice is nearest Jake, it occasionally ventures into the thoughts and actions of two other characters, young missionary teacher Shirley Eckert and San Pablo commanding officer Lieutenant William Collins.
Their morale sinks, then rises, and then irrevocably sinks when the San Pablo is singled out by crowds of Chinese up and down the river.The ship suffers a short-lived mutiny, and Lt. Collins determines that the only way to salvage the ship's name and prevent the taint of mutiny from passing to other ships is to have the San Pablo sail up the Yangtze to "rescue" some missionaries, one of whom is Shirley Eckert.
Set in China, on a boat called the sand Pablo, this book is really a look into different cultures and how empathy can bring some together, while the differences we all have can also divide people. Well written and captivating classic.
Long, a bit dated, but interesting history of gunboat diplomacy in China.
