https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/28302.The_Daring_Young_Man_on_the_Flying_Trapeze_and_Other_Stories
it has been some time since i have read a voice with such clarity of character. saroyan is my new best friend.
Wait, I take back what I said about Nine Stories.
This is my favorite collection of short stories.
They aren't really stories in a traditional sense, however.
It seems like not many people read Saroyan anymore and I think they should.
Wow, I really think you should read this book.
What makes Saroyan stand out to me his unabashed sentimentality- that combined with wit, humor, and prodigious talent (I believe he wrote this when he was twenty three or something) make for one great writer, and one great humanist.
If you can your hands on his plays, please read "The Beautiful People." Thank you.
En este libro hay una gran cantidad de cuentos maravillosos, algunos buenos y otros que no están tan conseguidos, pero incluso en estos cuentos que no te gustan tanto notas que los ha escrito una persona con la que conectas a un nivel muy profundo.
Puede que haya muchas historias sobre niños introvertidos, pero hay pocas que realmente sepan transmitir lo que de verdad es ser una persona introvertida.
Sin embargo, en todos los cuentos de Saroyan se desprende un immenso e incontenible amor por la vida y por la literatura.
O culegere de povestiri simpatice, care împrumută mult din tiparele unei comunități mici, dar importante, din SUA, și anume armenii.Aceștia sunt oameni muncitori, mereu cinstiți, care încearcă să-și construiască o comunitate unită, departe de țara natală, la acea dată o mică țărișoară în cuprinsul URSS.Povestirile lui Saroyan sunt impregnate de autenticitate și par, în multe locuri, autobiografice, tânărul armean fiind în centrul acțiunii sau măcar un bun observator a tot ce se întâmplă prin statele Americii, cu un accent important asupra Californiei și dealurilor pe care se cultivă struguri, stafide sau rodii.
da: http://capitolo23.com/2018/08/21/rece...Difficile che io ascolti musica mentre sto leggendo.
Ma se la musica non arriva da una cassa stereo o da Spotify, ma sorge spontanea nel tuo cervello mentre stai assaporando i racconti di William Saroyan, quante chance hai di resistere?
Ragazzo coraggioso ha fatto scaturire nella mia scatola cranica una serie di note che rimbalzavano di sinapsi in sinapsi e non andavano via, senza per questo togliere un briciolo di piacere alla lettura della prosa apparentemente semplice e in realtà semplicemente cristallina di Saroyan.
Ragazzo coraggioso mi ha regalato moltissime emozioni.
Part of a self-created syllabus: I'm studying the short story form, in particular the short-short.
Reading The Daring Young Man on the Flying Trapeze, said writer Robert Fox (in Sudden Fiction: American Short-Short Stories), "freed me.
I don't think Saroyan thought about form--what I learned from him was tone.
Short-shorts can be tone pieces, much like poems." When I read these remarks I ran right out (to Amazon.com) and ordered a used edition and gobbled it up.
I knew Saroyan a little from other long-ago reading, and I expected the stories to feel a little dated, and they do.
Saroyan is known for his free style writing.
Very raw,unpolished and ungroomed are his writings.
There is comedy.
I never expected comedy from some one who see’s life so tragically.
These short stories are to be read alone and out loud.
Saroyan has a command on the craft of writing that seems lost in today's works.
Short and a sweet read.
This book left me in awe.
It will be shelved on my most hugs given book.
Also, I bought this brown, edge worn, darkened, fading, damp stained and shaken book.
That made the read even sweeter.
https://hosemprevissutonelcastello.wo...Ragazzo Coraggioso, uno di quei libri che ti fanno vedere il mondo da un’altra prospettiva: uno sguardo che scava a fondo e spoglia la realtà da tutte le sue ipocrisie per andare dritto all’essenza delle cose.
Williams Saroyan è uno scrittore degli anni 30 americano, che rifiutò il pulitzer e questo la dice lunga su di lui: si percepisce subito leggendo la volontà onesta e umile di raccontare l’uomo così com’è, ponendosi allo stesso livello dell’altro senza giudizi o forme di superiorità.
Tanti piccoli racconti ambientati in un America passata popolata da personaggi di ogni tipo, non brilla per tecnica ne per stile ma per contenuto.
Link alla recensione completa all'inizio :)
Maybe the best book of fiction I've ever read! It bleeds with emotion and desire to strike a chord of compassion. And all the while it's funny! It's Salinger before Salinger. Kerouac before Kerouac. I mean it! When you read this, chances are you will understand that those voices you read in Salinger and Kerouac didn't just materialize out of thin air, they came from this genius with a type-writer.It's a book of short stories, but they all feel like the same 1st-person character narrating similar events, so in a way, it can be read as a novel.
I already like William Saroyan before I read "The Daring Young Man..." and now I'm even more impressed. These stories are funny, sad, odd, and refreshingly singular. Saroyan keeps reminding us that he is there, the author himself, pounding out a string of words on his manual typewriter before he has to hawk it again or his fingers freeze. And we still manage to laugh with him.
all time favorite collection of short stories
i've just started reading this, and lord is it refreshing. i'd forgotten how much i love Saroyan. i'm excited to fly through this...
"I am out here in the far West, in San Francisco, in a small room on Carl Street, writing a letter to common people, telling them in simple language what they already know."For a while I thought of "Five Star" books as the ones that must simply be perfect, but then you have to have room for writers like William Saroyan.
They read much like Joyce's "Dubliners" stories with a similar sense of lusty humanism and unforced epiphany.
Try as much as possible to be wholly alive with all your might, and when you laugh, laugh like hell." - Saroyan
William Saroyan's first collection of short stories published during the Great Depression details immigrants in the U.S. through a variety of characters (Armenian, Jewish, Polish, Irish).
Many of the stories reflect the times, centering around characters concerned with money, starvation, integration, etc.Not knowing anything about the author I wonder how many of the experiences the characters share are Saroyan's own.
What Saroyan maintains that Lewis and Anderson did not is a life philosophy, a writing philosophy, an experience philosophy, all of which is apparent in each of the characters.
Saroyan reminds me of some great writers like John Fante, or J.D Salinger, maybe because of his view of the world. His thoughts on love, peace, war, humanity, politics, are a celebration of the human spirit. He has humor, sadness, compassion, and he's sassy too.
4 1/2 stars
This is my favorite book of all time
I find the stories simultaneously too tidy (e.g. true) or too depressing, but I admire the breakfast-length story formats. Extra star for the 5 star title story, but then, I didn't read them all...
El primer libro de Saroyan que leí fue 'Me llamo Aram', y, aunque no llega al nivel de La comedia, sí deja entrever en alguno de los cuentos que contiene ese germen que le hace especial.
En 'El joven audaz sobre el trapecio volante', gran título por otra parte, hay que buscar bastante para encontrar esa magia.
Encuentro que es un libro bien escrito, pero irregular.
Aun así, me esperaba más.Los cuentos de El joven audaz están escritos en los años 30, es decir, durante la Gran Depresión, con un Saroyan, hijo de inmigrantes armenios, queriendo abrirse a brazo partido en el mundo de las letras, trabajando en múltiples empleos, en lo que fuese.
Hopper con fiori e giardiniMolti di questi racconti sono stati pubblicati da Saroyan nel 1934, quindi in piena Grande Depressione.
Narrano piccole, in genere intime storie di personaggi marginali, ragazzi indecisi sulla vita, scrittori che non pubblicheranno mai, immigrati che galleggiano nella grande città.Emerge dai racconti l'amore dell'immigrato armeno nei confronti dell'America che lo ha accolto, e quasi mai, se non indirettamente, i personaggi di Saroyan si scontrano con le contraddizioni, pur fortissime, di quella società.
Pur essendo in genere dei reietti, hanno una visione ottimistica e consolatoria della loro condizione, trovano il bene ovunque e non mettono mai in discussione la condizione che gli è assegnata.
la musica della giostra era meccanica, era molto brutta e molto bella, perché è la musica che i bambini sentono quando cavalcano i cavalli, le capre, i leoni e i cammelli della giostra, ed è la musica della memoria, così scadente, così difficile da descrivere, eppure meravigliosa..."Una notizia da diffondere:"La vera notizia non è sul giornale del lunedì.
Non è nemmeno una notizia, è il centro di tutto, dimenticato perché fa paura: il folle desiderio umano di perfezione o di morte, possedere tutta la meraviglia o scomparire."
Lo dice el autor, sus cuentos hablan de la historia del hombre sobre la tierra, Saroyan amaba la vida y la muerte, la humildad.
Eso es algo que encontrarás en este libro, cuentos que hablan de las cosas simples de la vida, nostalgia.
Encontré en algunos cuentos frases algo extrañas, podría tratarse de errores de traducción o quizás eran modismos del autor, consecuencia de su ascendencia Asiria.Mis cuentos favoritos fueron:- Setenta mil asirios- El hombre de las postales francesas- 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8- Hombre- Un día de frío- El joven audaz sobre el trapecio volante- Id vosotros a la guerra- Yo sobre la tierra
Esta es la mayor virtud que encontré en este libro de relatos y por la que Saroyan fue considerado como una revelación del cuento.
Pero al leerlo, no me parecía estar ante una promesa sino ante un Maestro del Relato: rebasa y no solo domina el género sino sabe manejarlo de una forma personal.Las historias increíbles, de 5 estrellas: "Harry" e "Id vosostros a la guerra".
"Guerra", "Un día de frío", "El joven audaz sobre el trapecio volante" y "Con los extraviados".Comentar que el libro contiene más de 20 relatos.
He was amazed at himself suddenly; it had occurred to him to let the snake flee, to let it glide away and be lost in the lowly worlds of its kind.
Why should he allow it to escape?He lifted a heavy boulder from the ground and thought: Now I shall bash your head and see you die.
To destroy that evil grace, to mangle that sinful loveliness.But it was very strange.
He could not let the rock fall on the snake's head, and began suddenly to feel sorry for it.
I am sorry, he said, dropping the boulder.
I beg your pardon.
Like the other books by Saroyan that I've read ("My Name is Aram" and "Fresno Stories") I really don't know what I'm supposed to be getting.
Maybe I had to live in the time period.
Some of the stories were interesting (such as the book's namesake) but others I really didn't get.
A lot of it is stream of consciousness and it seems a little reminiscent of Schopenhauer.
The funny thing is that Schopenhauer is mentioned in this book.
Maybe not a coincidence?
Anyway, if anybody could comment on this review to give me some general insight into the book, that would be great!
Wow, Saroyan is a must read! This book has an eclectic mix of short stories with no apparent overarching theme. Not all of them are good, some of them aren't even really coherent. But then there are the stories that make you pay attention. His stories talk deeply about the plight of people in America around the time of the Depression. His stories are heartbreaking, zany and insightful, sometimes all within a few sentences.
In this collection of short stories (his first), Saroyan’s voice is exuberant, exploratory, and brash. Published in 1934, many of the stories provide stark, haunting impressions of life during the Great Depression. Overall, the writing is fresh and the perspectives are thoughtful. I’ll be looking for more of his work.
I read the preface, "The Daring Young Man on the Flying Trapeze," "1,2,3,4,5,6,7,8", "Love, Death, Sacrifice, and So Forth," and "Seventy Thousand Assyrians." I want to read more because I found him a very different author. He explains some of his ideas about writing in the preface, which helped me understand and put in context the stories I read.
I loved this book-- a dear friend gave it to me and I think I read the whole thing in about a day. Its language like butter, or something. This was my introduction to Saroyan and I've now started reading through as many as I can get my hands on.I used a section of one of the stories as the reading at a friend's wedding, and my mother loved this book...
La povertà, il sogno della scrittura, l'ispirazione che non arriva, la fame, il dramma dell'immigrazione, la terra dei sogni disillusi, il cinema, l'amore, la morte.Di queste cose, e di molte altre, i racconti di Saroyan costituiscono un piccolo, malinconico compendio.
