https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/53412.La_autopista_del_sur_y_otros_cuentos
Julio Cortázar is another marvelous example of Latin American great story-tellers. It's hard to define his writing, enough perhaps to tell he is a natural and many times leaves me with no concrete words to comment. He is a master in uniting the mundane with the fantastical and the incredible. La autopista del sur y otros cuentos includes brilliant short stories, such as  Blow-Up  and  La Autopista . An all-time-favorite. If you like fantastical prose and appreciate short stories, read it and enj
Julio Cortázar is another marvelous example of Latin American great story-tellers. It's hard to define his writing, enough perhaps to tell he is a natural and many times leaves me with no concrete words to comment. He is a master in uniting the mundane with the fantastical and the incredible. La autopista del sur y otros cuentos includes brilliant short stories, such as 
  Blow-Up
 and 
  La Autopista
. An all-time-favorite. If you like fantastical prose and appreciate short stories, read it and enjoy!
El cuento deja un sentimiento de tristeza, un sentimiento que todos hemos sentido, como cuando una persona pasa de ser alguien importante a un perfecto desconocido; o como ese verano que ahora es solo un bonito recuerdo; así, este libro deja ese sentimiento cuando el ingeniero se da cuenta que las personas que lo rodean ahora son solo extraños mirando hacia el frente.
También deja pensando en cómo hay gente con la que convivimos diariamente y en realidad no conocemos, no sabemos que tipo de vida llevan o cuales son sus preocupaciones y sus alegrías, no sabemos de donde vienen o a donde van.Este es un cuento que te hace reflexionar, voltear a tu alrededor y preguntarte quien es aquel que esta a tu lado.
You can't really go wrong with Cortazar. You really can't.
ნეტა 2017 წლის 16 სექტემბრამდე სად ვიყავი, უფროსწორად კორტასარი სად იყო მე რომ უმაგისოდ ვიყავი :დ რამდენი ხანია ესე არ აღვფრთოვანებულვარ და ფურცლები არ გამომიზოგია, რომ არ დამთავრებულიყო. Gotta get more Cortazar, there is so much left "undiscovered" in his surreal and amazing world
Como Bogotana, me sentí muy identificada con este cuento...
როგორც მოთხრობების პირველი კრებულის წაკითხვის დროს, ამ წიგნშიც ზოგი მოთხრობა ძალიან მომეწონა და ზოგი ბოლომდე ვერც კი წავიკითხე, არ დამაინტერესა."კლასობანაა" ერთადერთი ლათინოამერიკული წიგნი, რომელიც მომეწონა და მიყვარს.
Another one of those writers you probably either love or hate. I wouldn't claim to "get" all his stories, but the not-getting is the fun part.
Cortázar genio.Aún con esto en la cabeza, nunca deja de sorprender.Cuidando pulir el contenido como quien trabaja un diamante. Este libro es, sin lugar a dudas LA MEJOR compilación de cuentos cortos de Cortázar.
Creative, enthusiastic and able to create an adventure of the mondane. Love it.
Cortazar is probably the most subtle Spanish-language writer, I've ever read. Akin to James' The Beast in the Jungle, are these narratives in this collection of stories. Wonderful, poetic language reminds me of Cuentos de Barro, but without being pretentious. Hacia tiempo que no leía alguien tan sutil como Cortazar. Valio la pena y me recordó la nostalgia de Cuentos de Barro y los cuentos de el autor Ingles, Henry James.
Or, as "read" as I think it will ever be.So far my favorite stories are "Final del juego" and "Los venenos." The first is about three girls that pose as statues for passing trains and the second tackles ant fumigation and young love.As of September 2009 I have given up on finishing this. I got tired of Cortazar's games. He can tell a good story when he isn't too concerned with his tricks. I'm sure I'll reread "Final del juego" and "Los venenos" some time.
Cortazar is one of my favorite authors. The title story La autopista del sur is an amazing piece of fiction. But everything he writes is interesting and thought provoking. I read almost all of Cortazar in a Spanish seminar with one of the best professors I've ever had. It is the kind of literature that requires a group so you can tease out all the hidden meanings.
Interesting stories, most with a odd twist somewhere. I would have liked them even more if I could understand a clear message for each and every one of them. After some, I was surprised myself to say "Ok, interesting, but what about it? Why did Julio wrote this?"
I read one of the stories, but want to read more, I love "La Autopista del Sur," and loved loved loved it.. I wanted to be there, I wanted to get stuck somewhere and start and new life, and just like that have it end and go back to the old one. Weird I know!
considero "La autopista del sur" uno de los mejores cuentos cortos de Cortazar, junto con "Casa tomada" y "Final del juego". Es uno de mis autores preferidos por su narrativa y por evocar tan vivas imagenes y sentimientos para aquellos que han vivido en el exilio.
Una colección excelente que muestra la amplitud de la carrera de Cortázar, con cuentos recopilados de cada etapa de la larga trayectoria del autor. Y, aunque no hace falta decirlo, Cortázar es una chimba.
Currently reading: "La noche boca arriba" ("The Night Face Up")I've read this story in English, and thought it was fantastic. I found the Spanish version being handed to me yesterday. This is much harder. I have to stop every third sentence and ask what something means.
Cortazar es el genio de los cuentos cortos.
Mi cuento favorito
Os contos mais estranhos são os mais interessantes. Os demais são simples de uma forma que não gostei. "Manuscrito Encontrado num Bolso" é o melhor.
It is a nice collection of short stories, every one with an interesting twist.
Siempre es un placer volverlo a leer, ¡Bravo maestro!
Y había leido casí todos los cuentos en otras ediciones.. buenisimo el de la autopista del sur... y el de la noche boca arriba es de sus mejores cuentos.
hermosos suenos, fuertes pensamientos
La autopista del sur 5/5.
Historias de cronopios y de famas es genial. Pesadillas es muy fuerte y Continuidad de los parques, uno de mis preferidos.
Read the English version "Blow Up and Other Stories" if only for the Charlie Parker love song, "The Pursuer." An author to envy.
Divertidísimo!
Estos cuentos de Cortázar en particular los encontré sobrevalorados.
La Autopista del Sur was excellent!
