https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/426825.QB_VII
¿Qué puedo decir? A pesar de que la primera parte me gustó mucho por lo imprevisto de la situación (Uris es un genio a la hora de describir un lugar o una situación), el juicio se me hizo eterno; quizá por el realismo con que lo describe. De todas maneras, es atroz leer sobre lo que pasó en el campo de prisioneros de Jadwiga (uno de los peores por los experimentos que se hacían con los prisioneros)
I don't like to be contradictory, but this book is not a contrived situation for Leon Uris to make a point.
It's based on a lawsuit taken against Uris himself.
The basic plot involves a doctor bringing suit for slander against a Jewish author who mentions him, in a work of fiction, as being a Nazi collaborator.
Since the story takes place in England, we learn much about the British legal system and the meaning of the word slander.
I enjoyed this book very much, and oddly enough, also enjoyed the t.v. or movie adaptationm.
Leon Uris writes a story that reaches out in the first pages and grabs you. There is no worry over the numbers of pages here; you thank the stars that it HAS heft because you don't want to finish this one. I learned more about medicine, law, the holocaust, Judaism, life changes, and what time will and won't heal than I ever thought possible in this book. Some books you live with for a while; this was some quality time.
Strange how memory plays tricks. I read this book first probably in the late 70s and all I remembered before I started reading it again was that it was a court case that described explicitly what a Polish surgeon did in a concentration camp during WW II.Actually, that's only about a third of the book, perhaps less. But obviously that left the most lasting impression.Following a visit to Auschwitz, I decided to read this book again after some 35 years and did not regret my decision.
Almost didn't want to read this because of it's obscure title, and length.
So glad I finally read it.
Some books you forget right away; this one will stick with me for awhile.
It's a gripping novel to the very end as the reader struggles to find out the truth.
While some parts are awful and graphic, I think any matter relating to the Holocaust can be nothing but.I learned from this book more about communism, Judiasm, anti-semetism, concentration camps, WW II, and the English law system.
Very interesting, well-written novel.
It's a little insane.Okay, then you get a depiction of a Jewish writer (quite obviously a stand-in for Uris himself) named Abraham Cady, who's written a book titled, sternly, The Holocaust, which makes a very small but crucial mention of Kelno as a being the doctor at the Jadwiga concentration camp.
This results in Kelno suing him for libel, and we get the drawn-out courtroom drama that forms both the crux and the climax of the story.So, what's the magic trick?
It's that shifting depiction of Kelno.
Although I still consider that book a masterpiece, its author was obviously misguided in that particular belief.
In his new novel, Holocaust, he mentions, very briefly, that Adam Kelno didn't perform just normal surgeries, but also performed crude, quick, inhumane surgeries on inmates, most of which involved the removal of the sex organs of both men and women, and that these were part of an experiment being performed by other, German (Nazi) doctors.The setup is brilliant, and though the first third of the book dwells on Kelno's past history, and how he worked in various parts of the world, helping and treating the poor and indigent - and Cady's background, too, and how he went from the quiet son of a boisterous father to writing fame - this is the least interesting part of the book.
Dr. Dering had sued the writer over claims made in his earlier novel Exodus that he had been involved in medical experiments in Auschwitz.The topic in question is about the sterilization experiments that were performed mainly upon the Jews (and at times, others) that took place in the fictional Jadwiga Concentration Camp in Europe during the Second World War, making them the human guinea pigs.The book has been very well-written, considering the complete structure required to form a certain lawsuit with an issue as big as this.
Nearly the entire second half of the book then takes place in the courtroom.The book is CERTAINLY RECOMMENDED.
This is a story about a Polish man Adam Kelno who was accused of the war crime of doing improper surgeries, for example, without the use of anesthetic or removing healthy people’s reproductive organs during WWII in a Polish concentration camp.
The trial took place in Queen’s Bench 7 (hence the title of the book) and after a number of witnesses testified against Kelno that he had in deed performed brutal surgeries against Jews in the concentration camp.
And after this civilization we are living in destroys itself, it will all start up again in a few hundred million years when the planet has all its messes cleaned up.
The courtroom scenes are when this book comes alive, but they only get started around page 250, which is more than halfway in.
The pages until then are spent developing the background of the two principal characters.
No nuances, no depth.A minor point of annoyance: The use of all capital letters to depict interior monologue managed to pretty well drive me crazy.
Entire chapters of capital letters are near unreadable, and by the end of the book, I would more or less skip those sections.This was my first Leon Uris novel, Mila 18 is next, I hope it's better.
This has been on my to read list for a long time.
I was totally disappointed in it.
It was a contrived situation to give Uris opportunity for a sermon.
The situation could be compared to OJ Simpson bringing suit against the Goldman family for defaming him, while knowing all the time he was guilty.
I don't think that will happen.
Neither do I think a war criminal would go to court to clear his name because of an obscur paragraph in a book mentioning someone with the same last name.
A guilty man would just let the sleeping dog lie.
Lo siento, pero me ha parecido bastante tostón.Una pena, porque el argumento a priori es de interés: un juicio al estilo Nürnberg, a un presunto colaborador de los nazis en la realización de experimentos médicos con judíos en un campo de concentración.
Se va por los cerros de Úbeda, divaga, lo llena todo de tramas paralelas sin el menor interés, las descripciones que mete en plan inciso contándonos cómo es el distrito judicial de Londres o el sistema de justicia británico aburren hasta a las ovejas, y para colmo, parece que le pagan por el número de páginas escritas: el libro es largo, muy largo, demasiado largo para lo poco de chicha que tiene en el fondo.
This book kept me turning the pages, and even more important, kept me thinking.
Leon Uris creates two sympathetic characters at odds with each other -- both protagonists and antagonists, each of them.
The book culminates in a memorable courtroom battle in which our deepest sympathies are tested.This novel is not perfect.
I have always found Uris to be a poor writer of dialogue -- it tends to be stiff and stylized.
Additionally, the novel feels dated, as female characters are introduced only to move the story along or to be sexual partners to the males in the forefront of the story.That said, I still recommend this book.
Uris writes books that are just hard to put down.He grabs you and just will not let go. This too I read when it first came out.
The title refers to a courtroom drama, but it takes a few zillion pages for that to start.
I think this is a novel that in style and substance might have been much more interesting when it came out, but it feels simultaneously heavy-handed and confused to me.
I don't feel like the doctor's character held together well, or that the set-up for the lawsuit even made that much sense.
I understand it's somewhat autobiographical (for the author part), so the issue is that reality is absurd, but that's why reality often doesn't make a good story, and this is a novel, not journalism.
...this is a book I read for my Contemporary Novel class in high school and I need to re-read it again now with an adult mind.
I remember it's impact on me then....I can only imagine it's impact NOW...but I need to re-read this for my kids too.
For someday...they will read it too.....Excellent opportunity to read this book again...only now with an adult mind.
It's probably been 25 years since I read this novel for a Lit class in High School.
Now that the years have given me some extra time to study up and gain that worldly wisdom, the book took a different hue to me.
This is the story of a trial in Queen's Bench Courtroom Number Seven of a famous author Abraham Cady against the surgeon Adam Kelno who acted in the Polish concentration camp of Jadwiga.Like Nuremberg's trial, this books will reveal all atrocities committed by the Nazis, specially against the Jews.5* Trinity4* QB VIITR The Haj
Extremely well written, though the details of what went on in a Nazi prison camp are gruesome to say the least. This story is based on Uris' own court case over the book "Exodus."An amazing tale!
Second time with this book ...Leon Uris is one of the best authors I have read, so I wanted to retread some of his books. This one did not disappoint.
This was a gripping story that had me at the edge of my seat. I keep trying to write a review for this book, but the words can't do it justice. A must read.
Of course, writing about one's own life isn't inherently a mistake, but this particular subject was clearly too close to Uris for him to write about it objectively.He spends the first half of the book introducing us to the two characters, and because Cady is written as an insufferable misogynist and Kelno is a generous family man, I think we're supposed to assume that Uris doesn't have an agenda and wants to show the ambiguity of ethics.
Možda je taj epitet "pučki" previše strog, ali Uris definitivno odiše lakoćom i ne prevelikom težinom u pisanju; bilo da se to odnosi na samu strukturu rečenica ili samim tehnikama pisanja (iako u samom djelu imamo 3 dijela - priče odvojene - koje se na kraju spajaju u jednu cjelinu koja kulminira).
Sama radnja kao i stil su jednostavni, a problematika koja se obrađuje je razdoblje poslije drugog svj.
Lako čitljiv i štoviše pamtljiv ipak nije pisac visokih književnih opusa - bez dubljih psihoanaliza (nema ni dublje karakterizacije likova u qb 7) već površinski nastrojen na prvu.
Halfway through this book you will turn ashen, tears will threaten to flow, and a burning knot will form in your throat. There's not much else I can say.... Years ago while on a business trip to Vienna I visited a small Jewish museum on a small street not far from the opulent grander that's so visited by tourists. The museum happened to be showing a documentary of medical experiments / atrocities committed during the Holocaust. I could not sit through it and left. I'm happy to say that I finished this book, although it was very painful.
QB VII by Leon Uris is a well written book that combine's strong character development (the back stories of the protagonist and the antagonist were well written), memorable mental imagery, understandable dialogue, a plot that rushes with tension towards the final climax, and some interesting historical facts and historical/cultural background, all mixed together in a literary masterpiece by Leon Uris. QB VII is an outstanding historical thriller keeps the narrative flowing smoothly in a way that immerses the reader in Leon Uris's creation.
I read many of Leon Uris's books as a teenager. This book was first published in 1970. Two of his books, QB VII and Mila 18 in particular, made a huge impact on my young mind. The storytelling is superb, and these two stories were so compelling, so painful, and so true to history even though they are fictional accounts of those times. I recommend both of them to anyone who wants to know what life was really like for some people during WWII.
This book was so depressing. It made me really sad. I read it a long time ago and I remember it so well and it still makes me sad. I remember going into our back yard and laying in the grass and staring at grass and think of all the horrible things that had been done to people in the book.
This book was not quite as I expected it.
The first half felt kind of slow, setting up the courtroom drama, which started about halfway in.
Once the trial started, though, it was riveting.
I enjoyed this book very much, after its slow start.
In spite of this, the story stands the test of time.
I know the book is at least partially based on a trial the author actually faced about one of his novels, so I presume there's some basis in fact for it.
Good story, after the trial begins, it really gets going.
My only regret is researching the plot about 25 pages into reading. I considered stopping, but it's such a rich and compelling story that it made no difference. Quite a tutorial on the British court system, at least as it was...
Finally finished. A very good book, but some of the passages about the concentration camp were difficult to get through because of what they described. My first Leon Uris book, reminded me of Jeffrey Archer novels of wide scope, such as Kane & Abel, and As the Crow Flies..
4.5 stars ...A exceptional read ....
