https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/205487.Everyman_s_Talmud
A very informative book, from the introduction to the bibliography. Many of the stories from the Talmud shed light, for me, on some of Jesus' parables and on some early Christian traditions. Not to mention improving my understanding of Judaism.
[Not mentioned by Cohen is the fact that this Talmudic passage, DINA DE'MALKHUTA DINA, was used by Poland's Jews to justify Jewish allegiance to the foreign powers ruling over Poland after the Partitions of Poland (1795-1918) and to justify their usual refusal to support Polish insurrectionary and other independentist efforts.
Framing it in religious terms would not change its racist essence.Clearly, the Torah-Israel relationship is, or can become, an all-purpose standby explanation (or exculpation) that can be invoked to justify practically any Jewish supremacist assertion in the Talmud or other rabbinical literature.A GENTILE STUDYING THE TORAH DESERVES DEATH.
This is the most important book one can read on the apochrypha, the secrets, the redactions of the Hebrew Bible which impacts the credibility of Christianity.
Here you can read hundreds of redacted Old Testament passages, removed from the written Torah by Rabbi Judah HaNazi in the 2nd century.
This is why the oral tradition is still in force along with the written Torah, thus the Hebrew Bible does not end with just the Five written Books.
So, use your imagination, if there are Five written Books there might be five oral books not written down that affect everyone's lives whether they are Hebrew or Christian or Muslim.
This book is kind of boring, but it does serve as a brief introduction to the Talmud. It basically addresses questions like "what is a good life," "what is the difference between men and women," "does Judaism believe in an afterlife," and "what is God," from a Talmudic perspective. This book isn't actually the Talmud--instead, for each question, the book has selected some relevant quotation by Rabbi Yossi Ben Bladiba, etc., and compiled various viewpoints. The book is therefore quite dry, and also not really "well-written" per se, but it does offer a quick and dirty run down of Talmud.
many parts of this book are quite interesting, and what cohen accomplished in terms of laying out the teachings of the talmud thematically is pretty incredible in and of itself. but it's probably better as a reference -- to be perused on a particular subject, as needed -- than as a book to read straight through, particularly as large tracts of it are essentially indigestible. still, i'm glad i read it, and no doubt have a fuller sense of jewish law and beliefs.
This is a classic for anyone to learn about Jewish thought and the development of the categories of Jewish law. What Maimonides did with his codification, Cohen does in our days with this simplification. Very useful.
A dense but interesting book. It helps penetrate the Talmud for the modern reader and to understand generally how the rabbis thought about a variety of things during the era of Talmud and Mishnah.There's so much here that it will take a few re reads for me to absorb. But I look forward to returning to this (eventually)
I wanted to gain a better understanding of the writings of the Talmud and thus the Jewish religion and culture.
I also came to it knowing that there would be certain aspects of the writings that I would find difficult to accept -- again, to a fair degree, attributable to the times in which the Talmud was written, but also attributable to my own prejudices and the impact that living in the present times has had upon me.
I took an incredibly long time to read this.
It did pick up toward the end with the sections on folklore and magic, jurisprudence, and eschatology, which were the subjects I was most interested in.Cohen maintains a fine balance between scholarship and apologetics, which also puts me off a little: I don't need to be convinced that rabbinic Judaism is worthy of my respect, and I'm intrigued by many of the talmudic statements that seem to make Cohen uncomfortable.
I am glad to have tackled it because I now feel ready to move on to more interesting studies on the Talmud and rabbinic Judaism.
While I appreciate the author's efforts of condensing the Talmud into a good introductory book, the content of the book itself is rather dry and uninspiring.
The sections on folk-lore and physical life were entertaining, but more due to the ridiculous (and hilarious) mediaeval nature of the superstitions than any inspirational religious content.The author does tend to try and explain away views which he finds disagreeable, although I do give credit for not having omitted them entirely.
This is a useful reference for the lay person without a lot of training in Jewish law and ritual practice. It is sort of a cliff's notes version of a law code like the Mishneh Torah or the Shulchan Arukh. The index is pretty good that helps you find discussions on specific topics. It does not get into how specific sects interpret specific laws. Always consult your rabbi on specifics.
In 1931, the Talmud had not yet been translated into English. An English speaker unfamiliar with Hebrew and Aramaic could read this 400-page book, which has stories about God, morality, society, law, magic, demons, family life and so on. This book is a snapshot of a civilization no less fascinating than Jaques Gernet's Daily Life in China on the Eve of the Mongol Invasion.
A good primer on Rabbinic thought and a great intro to the Talmud and other tomes of Jewish teaching. Here's the pattern, here's the subject, here's stories supporting the thought, here are dissenters, repeat. It's not a page turner, rather an informed textbook.
If you are interested in Jewish ideology and/or theology then I would definitely recommend this to you. This is an abrogated version of the Talmud, but nonetheless, it is still rich with information about the whole of Jewish thought life.
Personally I preferred God in Search of Man, but this was still very informative.
Cohen deserves 5 stars for creating a manageable, single-volume, comprehensive distillation of the Talmud. I never would've read anything about it if not for this book.I gives it 3 stars, though, for meager entertainment value.
A classic condensed version of the Talmud - Jewish discussions from throughout the ages. You have to remember that they don't teach everything in the Talmud, as it's just an accumulation of discussions that ancient Rabbis had. You will definitely enjoy this one.
I keep this as a reference book and I use it quite often. This is good stuff and some ancient wisdom. Reviewed.
If you want an overview of the teachings of the sages, this is the right book for you.
Wordy and convoluted
Very fascinating and easy to understand.
I enjoyed this book and thought it was helpful in fueling directed discussions.
Clear, concise introduction to Jewish thought.
I've never made it all the way through this book, but I continue to pick it up from time to time.
Everyman's Talmud: The Major Teachings of the Rabbinic Sages by Abraham Cohen (1995)
Essential Talmud to accompany the Tanakh.
