https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/34080.The_Waste_Land
...أعذر كل من لم يستطع فهم أو محبة الأرض الخراب بالعربيةفأنا عانيت معها وحدي قبل دراستها بلغتها الأصليةفالرموز وطريقة السرد(العظيمة) تؤثر كثيرا على من لا خلفية له عنهاعندما بدأت في دبلومة الترجمة في الدراسات العلياوجدت أستاذي في الشعر هو أحد أساتذتي في الترجمة أيضاوعندما علمت أنه يشرح القصيدة لإحدى الفرق أسرعت وطلبت منه الحضور معهموياله من تجدد للسحرمجددا أعيش أجمل الجلسات الشعرية وأتمتع بذكاء إليوت وقدرته المذهلة على تكوين القصيدالبعض يتجرأ على وصف القصيدة بالمفككةوهذا في رأيي محض هراءفالوحدة ا

Understanding Eliot's poems is not the point; the point is to recognize that he writes with incredible skill and to just lose yourself in the words.
My Lit book, How to Read a Poem, said it best:"Eliot is often see as an intellectually difficult, fearfully elitist writer, and so in some ways he was.
In fact, he once claimed to have enjoyed reading Dante in the original even before he could understand Italian...In some ways a semi-literate would have been Eliot's ideal reader.
You know, one of the greatest poems of the 20th century and that kind of thing.
I must know a fair amount of it by heart.
He would start off by quoting the first few lines:"April is the cruellest month, breeding	 Lilacs out of the dead land, mixing	 Memory and desire, stirring	 Dull roots with spring rain."And then he would say, But that's not my favourite bit!
and quote the following:"What are the roots that clutch, what branches grow	 Out of this stony rubbish?
Female Eng Lit majors, I apologise for assisting with this deception.
The above mentioned lines mark one of the most profound onsets in the history of modernist literature; and perhaps with eruption of the highly dense, heart pounding effusion, a magical spell envelops the reader who would be kept shifting between time and space, embark and decay of civilization, prophecy and satire, philosophy and faith, life and death throughout the mind-clouding, breath- taking journey of around 433 lines; of which, some can stand on their own alone protruding their beings through the undulations of nothingness.
But when they said “notes,” I guess the editors just meant Eliot’s original notes, which are almost invariably appended to the poem anyway, whatever the edition.I’ll end by reproducing a few passages which illustrate something I noticed for the first time this reading: the large number of gothic and decadent images in this poem.
White bodies naked on the low damp ground And bones cast in a little low dry garret, Rattled by the rat’s foot only, year to year.
Published in 1922, the 434-line poem first appeared in the United Kingdom in the October issue of Eliot's The Criterion and in the United States in the November issue of The Dial.
انتشارات نیل در تهران نیز، در سال 1350 هجری خورشیدی، این شعرها را با عنوان «دشت سترون و اشعار دیگر» به چاپ رساند، که ترجمه ی آن را پرویز لشکرى انجام داده بود.
نشر فاریاب در سال 1362 هجری خورشیدی، ترجمه ی بهمن شعله ور را، با عنوان «سرزمین هرز»، بار دیگر به نام خود چاپ و منتشر کرد.
A diverse cast of characters take turns narrating the poem, or having their conversations overheard by the narrator, including:✍ a Lithuanian countess, reminiscing about her childhood and life ("I read, much of the night, and go south in the winter")✍ a prophetic voice, like Ezekiel, examining the barrenness of civilization ("Son of man, You cannot say, or guess, for you know only A heap of broken images, where the sun beats, And the dead tree gives no shelter ...")✍ Madame Sosostris, a famous but fake clairvoyant, telling a fortune with tarot cards ("I do not find the Hanged Man. Fear death by water.
I’m currently reading  Ulysses, a notoriously difficult book, but I am enjoying it nonetheless.
And sometimes, it strikes a chord within you and you feel everything the poem is saying.The Waste Land does none of these things.
In order to gain a thorough a succinct understanding of this poem, a poem that takes no longer than thirty minutes to read, I would likely have to spend five-six hours researching the meaning of the terminology, phrasing and historical mentions.
When I read  The Waste Land I feel stupid.
I feel like I’m reading something that I cannot quite understand, and this annoys me.
This Pisses Me Off and Makes Me Feel Like a Moron I've had to read this twice in the course of my education, and I don't like it one bit, though I thoroughly appreciate its status and importance. Sort of like my attitude to atomic weapons. You wouldn't dismiss atomic weapons as 'crap', but you could legitimately say 'I appreciate their significance but I don't like them at all.'I don't think there has ever been more literary masturbation about any other piece of writing than The Wasteland, and
I've had to read this twice in the course of my education, and I don't like it one bit, though I thoroughly appreciate its status and importance.
You wouldn't dismiss atomic weapons as 'crap', but you could legitimately say 'I appreciate their significance but I don't like them at all.'I don't think there has ever been more literary masturbation about any other piece of writing than The Wasteland, and I personally found it charmless, aloof and with nothing to engage my wish to push through that first impression.
Okay, Eliot, you're a misogynistic, anti-Semitic elitist who doesn't think anyone without a classical education is worthy of reading your work.Well, fine.
I must confess. I have no idea what I just read. But it was the most beautiful thing.
هر مؤلف فقط تا سه بار فرصت داره آدم رو تحت تأثیر قرار بده، تا وقتی که به کلی کنار گذاشته بشه.تی اس الیوت تا حالا دو تا فرصتش رو سوخت کرده!!
After the torchlight red on sweaty faces After the frosty silence in the gardens After the agony in stony places The shouting and the crying Prison and palace and reverberation Of thunder of spring over distant mountains He who was living is now dead We who were living are now dying With a little patience.
" من هذه الدراسة يتضح لنا أن الثورة الشعرية التي أحدثها ت.س.إليوت بقصيدة "أرض الضياع" لم تكن ثورة في الشعر الإنجليزي أو الأمريكي فحسب بل كانت ثورة في فن الشعر بصفة عامة بحيث امتد تأثيرها ليشمل معظم شعراء العالم في مختلف اللغات، سواء هؤلاء الذين قرءوها في نصها الأصلي أو مترجمة.
فقد تجاوز بها إليوت كل القضايا التقليدية التي أثارها النقاد والشعراء، خاصة في العالم العربي حيث الجدل المثار بين أنصار الفصحى أو أنصار العامية، بين مؤيدي الشعر العمودي المقفى وبين مؤيدي الشعر الحر والمرسل، بين من يعتمدون على الكلمة واللفظ وبين من يلجأون إلى الاستعارة والرمز والصورة.
دوستانِ گرانقدر،این دفترِ شعر از 10 شعرِ بلند و 5 شعرِ کوتاه تشکیل شده است و در پایان نیز مقاله ای ا
In my opinion, most Westerners suffer at a certain point in their lives a sudden feeling that civilization is collapsing because they think society has moved away from the classic ideals which maintained the life they imagine they grew up in.
It would raise questions about everything you believed about the protective 'shields' of religion, societal mores and expectations; and about being a good person as a strategy for deserving to stay alive, and about the having a purity of purpose to be deserving of winning, even being too educated, thus too smart or valuable to be killed, etc.For most Americans, the closest experience of the possibility of death comes from car or sport accidents and illnesses.
أرض الضياع رائعة الشاعر "ت. س. إليوت".نشرت أول مرة عام 1922م، وتعتبر علامة بارزة ومنعطفا تاريخيا في مسار الشعر الانجليزي بصفة خاصة والشعر العالمي بصفة عامة، كتبها في لوزان عندما سافر إلى سويسرا للاستشفاء شتاء 1921م.وبعد ثلاثة أشهر عاد إلى باريس وقدمها إلى صديقه "عزرا باورد" الذي قام بمراجعها وحذف مايقارب نصفها ولم يعترض "إليوت" بل اعترف أنها قصيدة مشوشة وفي حاجة إلى تناسق..لولا شرح وتحليل الدكتور نبيل راغب الرائع لأرض الضياع لما أحببته.وترجمة جزء من القصيدة باللهجة المصرية جميل جدا، لمست فيها جماليات النص الشعري بشكل واضح.
ملحوظة : هذه المراجعة لترجمة د .
نبيل راغب ، وليس ترجمة : د.
عبد الواحد لؤلؤةيمكنني أن أغفر الكثير من الأشياء في عيوب الترجمة ولكن كيف يمكنني أن أغفر ترجمة بعض أبيات من شعر إليوت إلي العامية السوقية ؟؟فللأمانة ليست القصيدة كلها مترجمة إلي العامية بل بعضها فقط ، إلا أنني لا أتقبلها ابدأ حتي لو كانت النية جيدة في تقريبها من ذهن القارئ، فالعامية هنا مرفوضة تمامااعترف أن هناك مجهود كبير من قبل المترجم في شرح وتحليل إسلوب إليوت ومقارنته بسائر الشعراء ، حتي إنني لفت انتباهي مجموعة من الأبيات وجدتها مشابهة للغاية بأبيات أخري قرأتها لشارل بودلير في طبعته الاولي من ديوانه أزهار الشر، وقبل أن أقارن بين بودلير وإليوت وجدت المترجم بالفعل قد انتبه لهذه الأمر وفسر لي هذا التشابه بين الاثنينمجهود جيد للغاية ..
It is interesting to note that even after his conversion to Christianity when he writes his most religious-themed volume of poetry, Four Quartets, he still quotes the Gita at length for one entire piece of that work (one wonders why Eliot never thought to actually just become a Hindu, Ash Wednesday not withstanding).
Ed io che sono qui seduta al tavolo della cucina, che ascolto musica nelle cuffie a tutto volume per isolarmi dal volume della tv, che aspetto che la casa si svuoti e si acquieti solo per ritrovare una dimensione intima, spirituale, non corrotta, io ragazzina ignorante dell’anno duemiladodici, che si suppone vedrà la fine di questo mondo apocalittico, arido, avido, atavico, allucinato – io, che cosa ne so?Niente.
Sono triste perché non farò mai poesia.
E per questo non lasceremo niente che valga la pena leggere.
i think this might make me an anti-intellectual, but i enjoyed this poem so much more when i read this outside of the classroom and infused it with my own tenuous understanding of what was going on in the poem. in class, explicating every single obscure reference effectively killed it. still such a powerful opening though. his poems have lines you want to taste in your mouth, and repeat over and over like magical intonations, or write down covertly in a secret book of quotes.
ειχα πρωτοδιαβασει αυτο το ποιημα στα αγγλικα εκει στα 20 περιπου, στα πρωτα χρονια της σχολης και η αναμνηση που μου ειχε αφησει ηταν ενα μεγαλο ερωτηματικο και ενα απεραντο αγχος για το τι στην ευχη θα γραψω αν πεσει στην εξεταστική.
και κατι για τον απριλη που ειναι ο cruelest month ..ετσι ειχα απομνημονεύσει διαφορα κομματια του sparknotes (life saver!) και απλα ηλπιζα..τωρα 10 χρονια περιπου μετα το ξαναδιαβασα, σε μεταφραση Σεφερη με τις σημειωσουλες μου διπλα(αλλιως δεν βγαινει κατα την ταπεινη μου αποψη)και ω ποσο μεγαλη διαφορα κανουν αυτα τα 10 χρονια?
"Abril é o mês mais cruel, geraLilases da terra morta, misturaA memória e o desejo, agitaRaízes dormentes com chuva da Primavera.O Inverno aconchegou-nos, cobriuA terra com o esquecimento da neve, alimentouUma pequena vida com bolbos ressequidos.(...)Nas montanhas, aí sim sentimo-nos livres.Leio, quase toda a noite, e vou para o sul no Inverno.Que raízes se prendem, que ramos crescemNeste entulho pedregoso?
Filho do homem,Não consegues dizer, nem adivinhar, pois conheces apenasUm montão de imagens quebradas, onde bate o sol,E a árvore morta não dá qualquer abrigo, nem o grilo alívio,Nem a pedra seca qualquer ruído de água.
In college I read an author I loved and can't find him.
He didn't rhyme but made you feel his words.
I thought Eliot might be that one.
I'm not sure if I read him then but the poem amazed me.
The more I read and write the more I understand and the deeper the pleasure.
I read Eliot a couple years ago and hated it.
His words branch off into hundreds of novels your mind creates.
His imagery takes you into the very experience to see, feel, taste, touch.
Wow. My favorite of Eliot's remains "The Hollow Men." I plan to read that next.
It really is quite beautiful and immensely satisfying.If you aren't as lucky as I am, and you don't get to read this in a classroom setting with people to help you sort through all of the rich symbolism and literary references, then I highly suggest you read the Norton Critical Edition or some other similar edition.
It also contains lots of critical essays written by other people about The Waste Land.
I suggest that everyone at least tries to read The Waste Land at least once in their lives, if only so you can say that you have.
پس اگر راست میگوييد شعری مانند آن بياوريد و گواهان خود را غير تی. اس. الیوت فرا خوانيد. پس اگر نكرديد و "هرگز نمیتوانيد كرد" از آن آتشى كه سوختش سنگها هستند و براى شاعرنمایان آماده شده بپرهيزيد.
“April is the cruelest month, breedinglilacs out of the dead land, mixingmemory and desire, stirringdull roots with spring rain.”  I had to read this for a Modernism unit I'm taking, which made sense because I knew nothing about this poem going in except that it's supposed to be THE modernism poem (and also that Ezra Pound edited the shit out of it?) I read T.S Eliot's other famous poem The Lovesong of J. Alfred Prufrock in highschool, which I liked because of it's beautiful writing and clever
Alfred Prufrock in highschool, which I liked because of it's beautiful writing and clever use of allusions.
The wasteland is also beautiful and clever.
T.S Eliot has such beautiful, rich poetic writing.
I went back after each section to look up what every line meant - and this was super interesting.
But I think the highlight of the poem really is the writing really.
I think you should all read thisgood ass proper review from someone else because it's brilliant and I loved it.
It was interesting to read this and see what everyone's been talking about all these years.
I think the last poem was my favourite.
T.S. Eliot has written some of the most thought-provoking poems I've ever read. He is brilliant, just brilliant. You will definitely love Eliot's poetry style if you enjoy the works of Emily Dickinson and Edgar Allan Poe.Some of my favourites: I. The Burial of the Dead.April is the cruelest month, breedinglilacs out of the dead land, mixingmemory and desire, stirringdull roots with spring rain....And I will show you something different from eitherYour shadow at morning striding behind youOr your shadow at evening rising to meet youI will show you fear in a handful of dust.
Limerick della terra desolata(ispirati da Wendy Cope)I In aprile non sei mai contentoTerra arsa dal sole e spaventoVeggenti stressantiPendolari opprimentiVedo Stetson: gli pianto un lamento!IILei sedeva su un trono stupendoScintillava, i capelli pulendoDomandava risposteFeci poche proposteTristi come Al e Lil: un tormento.IIIIl Tamigi e le ossa ed i ratti.Sbircia Tìresia i letti disfattiL’impiegata copertaSuona musica espertaWei la la. S’ingarbuglia da matti.IVUn fenicio chiamato FlebàsScordò uccelli e gli affari di quaMa senza un lamentoFacea testamentoOr lasciato nel mar marcirà.VSenza l’acqua, una sete da penaPoi diluvio, citazioni a catena.Van dal Sanscrito a Dante,Fino al monte Himavante,Senza note ’un capite una sega!
"صفحه ی آخر نداره!" یا حداقل کتاب من، صفحه ی آخرش چاپ نشده و نمی دونم دیوانه کننده تر از این هم چیزی هست؟ حالا بالاخره درد هیزل و گاس رو وقت خوندن کتاب جناب پیتر فن هوتن درک می کنم، مسخره استبه غیر از این نکته ی "بارز"، باید بگم که ترجمه خوب بود، البته می تونست بهتر هم باشه (شاید یک ازرا پوند ایرانی لازم داشت)، ولی خب نفس ترجمه ی چنین کار شاقی "خوب" ه، و در ضمن نقدها و حاشیه ها هم خیلی عالی بودندو شعر هم که البته، حرف نداشت.
سرزمین بیحاصل یا سرزمین هرز شعری از تی. اس. الیوت است که از مهمترین شعرهای قرن بیستم به شمار میرود.این اثر در دورههای گوناگون بارها و با نامهایی چون سرزمین بیحاصل، دشت سترون، خرابآباد و ارض موات به فارسی برگردانده شده. نخستین بار در دههٔ ۳۰، حسین رازی (آذر فریار) این شعر را با نام سرزمین ویران در «جنگ هنر و ادب امروز» ترجمه کرد و سپس چنگیز مشیری، حمید عنایت و بعدتر بهمن شعلهور با نام سرزمین هرز (نام پیشنهادی ابراهیم گلستان) در مجلهٔ آرش در دههٔ ۴۰، و بعد از آن پرویز لشگری، بیژن الهی، شهریار شهید
سرزمین بی‌حاصل یا سرزمین هرز شعری از تی.
نخستین بار در دههٔ ۳۰، حسین رازی (آذر فریار) این شعر را با نام سرزمین ویران در «جنگ هنر و ادب امروز» ترجمه کرد و سپس چنگیز مشیری، حمید عنایت و بعدتر بهمن شعله‌ور با نام سرزمین هرز (نام پیشنهادی ابراهیم گلستان) در مجلهٔ آرش در دههٔ ۴۰، و بعد از آن پرویز لشگری، بیژن الهی، شهریار شهیدی، حسن شهباز، جواد علافچی، هومن عزیزی، شاپور احمدی و مهدی وهابی از جمله کسانی هستند که این منظومهٔ بلند را به فارسی برگردانده‌اند.
4,5;. Μεγάλη η διαφωνία μου για τη μετάφραση του τιτλου.
Apparently Eliot wrote it after reading Ulysses, and it seems he couldn’t vomit it out of his head in any form other than this poem.
I’m sure there’ll be some brain out there that will remind me that it is only nonsense to the pedestrian mind, but I’ll remind him/her that if they actually enjoyed burning through life researching every metaphorical nuance, literary allusion and rephrasing (plagiarism?...!), personal life reference, and inside joke to Ezra Pound and his friends (oh C’MON!!) like I DID, then they are a zombie who likes to eat brains.While reading this, I also read the companion A Guide To the Selected Poems of T.S. Eliot by B.C. Southham.
Will it bloom this year?” and, “A current under the sea/ Picked his bones in whispers.” Now that was nice.
Ars PoeticaA poem should be palpable and muteAs a globed fruitDumbAs old medallions to the thumbSile
الأرض الخراب ل-إليوت، قصيدة حداثية بالغة الأثر؛ تعد علامة فارقة في الأدب الحديث . وهي أهم أعماله الشعرية بإجماع النقاد. تحفل القصيدة بعدة أصوات، وسط تعدد لساني متمايز ومثير ومعقد في آن. وانفتاح النص إلى إحالات نصية لاحصر لها، والتي تستند إلى مرجعيات ثقافية - دينية، وأدبية، وأخرى. + دراسة باطنية ومعمقة للقصيدة، بمناظير مختلفة أعادت بناء إليوت من جديد.أولت الدراسة بالغ الاهتمام بالتكوين النفسي لشخص إليوت ؛حيث قدمت التفسيرات والتحليلات النقدية الحديثة صورة بانورامية بليغة، أدت إلى انصهار الآفاق وصراع التأويلات!أبدع محمد المظلوم في إخراج التحقيق والدراسة.
Ezra Pound, who edited for Eliot, and who Eliot seems to have thought of as a mentor of sorts is just the opposite - he seems to talk to himself, and sneer at the reader for not knowing what he's talking about.
Cause here's the thing, I feel like the only point of trying to understand this poom is so that I can sneer at people who don't understand.
(I don't mean this as a personal attack on those who like Mr. Pound, I just never grokked him).T.S. Eliot is, also, kind of obscure at times, but the thing about, at least, The Waste Land is that you feel like it was written for the reader.
This highly literary poem is recommended only for those who want to delve into its heavily allegorical word-by-word symbolism and who are willing to go outside the text to understand it.While I don't recommend T.S. Eliot's The Wasteland for mystery, suspense, and thriller readers who are looking for straightforward plot and characters, those who like the setting of the early 1900s and the sheer rhythm of the lines will find this classic stays with them.For a laymen's explanation: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Was...
چه این که طبق توضیح های پایان کتاب (در سه بخش: درباره ی سرزمین هرز از مترجم، یادداشت ها باز هم از مترجم و توضیحات از نویسنده و مترجم) این شعر نمود «ناامیدی دنیای جدید» و «پوچی عشق در دنیای جدید» و خیلی مفاهیم دیگر است.
گرچه بعد از خواندن شان هم بعضی ها را نفهمیدم.نکته این جاست که طبق توضیح های پایان کتاب، این شعر سرشار از اشاره به یک مجموعه دانش گسترده است.
پس از خواندن توضیح ها هم برخی تکه ها به نظرم بسیار زیبا آمد اما غیر از آن هیچ!به هر حال به هر جان کندنی بود این کتاب را تمام کردم!
امتیاز دهی من بیشتر بر اساس لذتی است که از کتاب بردهام. از اون کتابهایی بود که باید میخوندم. دو ترجمهی بهمن شعلهور و جواد علافچی رو خوندم و باید بگم نه. شاید انتظارم زیاد بوده. شعر اشباع شده از اسطوره و کتابهایی که الیوت دوست داشته. افسانههای خدایان، مسیح، شکسپیر، کنراد، دانته و... اونقدر که بدون دانش به اون آثار خوندن این کتاب بیهوده است. نشانهاش هم حتا توضیحاتی که خود شاعر داده. مجبورم بگم خود شعر چیزی بالاتر از آثاری که ازشون وام گرفته عرضه نمیکنه. البته این نظر مطمئنا به مذاق خیلیا خوش نمیاد
امتیاز دهی من بیشتر بر اساس لذتی است که از کتاب برده‌ام.
از اون کتابهایی بود که باید می‌خوندم.
دو ترجمه‌ی بهمن شعله‌ور و جواد علافچی رو خوندم و باید بگم نه.
شعر اشباع شده از اسطوره و کتابهایی که الیوت دوست داشته.
اونقدر که بدون دانش به اون آثار خوندن این کتاب بیهوده است.
نشانه‌اش هم حتا توضیحاتی که خود شاعر داده.
مجبورم بگم خود شعر چیزی بالاتر از آثاری که ازشون وام گرفته عرضه نمیکنه.
البته این نظر مطمئنا به مذاق خیلیا خوش نمیاد.
شاید هم مشکل از سواد من باشه که نمیتونم از این کتاب لذت ببرمبین دو و سه
I'm confused
1922'de "Çorak Ülke"nin yayımlanmasıyla Eliot uluslararası üne kavuştu. Şiir I. Dünya Savaşı sonrasındaki hüsranı, düş kırıklığını ve nefreti büyük bir güçle dile getirir. Kutsal Kâse arayışı gibi bir temayla gevşekçe birbirine bağlanan bir dizi bölümde insanların bir kurtuluş işareti ya da vaadi bekledikleri, korkularla ve çorak arzularla dolu kısır bir dünya anlatılır. ✳ Kitabı okurken değişik duygular canlanmaya başladı içimde boşuna verilen uğraş hissi mi eylemlerin başkalarının çabalarından
Kutsal Kâse arayışı gibi bir temayla gevşekçe birbirine bağlanan bir dizi bölümde insanların bir kurtuluş işareti ya da vaadi bekledikleri, korkularla ve çorak arzularla dolu kısır bir dünya anlatılır.
Evreni rahatsız etmeye.." önemli olan bu sanırım...✳️ Dizelerdeki berraklık dikkatimi çekiyor tüm kitap tek şiirmiş gibi akıp gidiyor şöyle bir cümle kuran yazarı okumakta geç kalmak bir yenilgi edebiyat dünyasında." Nasıl başlayayım ?Tükürmeye tüm saplarını günlerimin ve yollarımın"✳️Şiir kitaplarından birini okuduktan sonra şairin hayatı hakkında araştırma yaptım ve John Worthen’ın eseri olan ”Bir Şairin Yaşamöyküsü: T.
Eliot, yaşamı boyunca biyografisinin yazılmasını istememiş, vasiyetini yerine getirmekle görevlendirdiği kişiye saklayabileceği her şeyi saklamasını ve hakkında yazılması planlanan tüm kitapları engellemesini söylemişti.
T.S. Eliot’s The Waste Land is one of those works intentionally designed by its author to be a literary labyrinth, so crammed full of references to other things that the explanatory notes dwarf the text itself many times over.
If you are going to read The Waste Land despite my review (and I know many people like the work very much, so don’t let me dissuade you unless your tastes are similar to mine) the Norton Critical Edition is a necessity.
Ana dilinden tekrar okuyacağım. Bu şekilde pek tad alamadım.Bir de şiirlere çok fazla dipnot eklenmiş, her satırda bir dipnot numarası var neredeyse. Şiirle, sembollerle doğrudan iletişimi kısıtlamış bu durum bence. Şiirde dilin farklı ve özgün kullanıma ve sembollere fazlasıyla önem veren bir şairin şiirlerine bu kadar fazla açıklama eklemesi (onların da orijinal 2. baskıda eklenmesini istemiş kitapta yazana göre sanırım) bana şaşırtıcı geldi.
I read this about 30 years ago, but have since revisted it because of my son's school project on Conrad's "Heart of Darkness." For an Eliot fan, it's a must-have.
Still, I've always liked the first major "cut" from the poem: "He Do the Police in Different Voices, Part I." But more importantly, I've always wanted to know the backstory behind Eliot's interest in Conrad's "Heart of Darkness." I'm fascinated by the fact that Eliot originally intended to have "The Horror -- The Horror" quote from that story, fronting (as an epigraph) "The Wasteland." And then, later, in "The Hollow Men," the quote, "Mr. Kurtz, he dead."
What the Thunder Said If there were waterAnd no rock If there were rock And also water And water A spring A pool among the rock If there were the sound of water only Not the cicada And dry grass singing But sound of water over a rock Where the hermit-thrush sings in the pine trees Drip drop drip drop drop drop drop But there is no water
في الواقع لم أستطع أن أتذوق القصيدة ولكنني انبهرت واستمتعت بشرح ودراسة نبيل راغب يبدو أن كلمة " العم
