https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/331109.History_in_English_Words
This is a preeminently readable book of etymology, written by Owen Barfield, friend of C.S. Lewis. This book is not just an isolated series of word histories, but it is also tied in with history history, if that makes sense. Barfield was massively learned.
The first statement on this book should be: if you want to be a writer, or a thinker, you should read this book.
If you're still not convinced of its importance, try this review: https://www.brusselsjournal.com/node/...I just re-read it for the fourth time, after forcing it upon my fellow book club members.
Conflicting devotions had torn me in two for a very long time; Barfield reconciled everything.
I can only recommend reading it, as many times as necessary.HiEW is beautiful and wonderful however you approach it.
If you care for words, you will love it.
This book is unique in my experience.Here’s a casual teaser:“…it has been said that there are more [new words] in Shakespeare’s plays than in all the rest of the English poets put together.”Examples of the Bard’s imagination:advantageous, amazement, critic, dishearten, dwindle, generous, invulnerable, majestic, obscene, pedant, pious, radiance, reliance, sanctimoniousThroughout 240 pages, Barfield implicitly emphasizes a dynamic point: new words are created continuously in all languages by all peoples, and old words continuously acquire new meanings in all cultures.The way we think and express our thoughts and feelings today could not have been done—in the fullness of our modern meanings and understandings—as little as 100 years ago.Take a minute and speak three carefully considered sentences about three topics that you think are important or exciting.
Barfield shows, for the layperson, just exactly how the English language grew and how certain aspects of its growth were so important to the language’s power and suppleness.
The chapter on how the Church schoolmen – those bearded scholars we all like to jeer at now for wanting to know how many angels can dance on the head of a pin – were so important in enriching the language, inventing, basically, words to express areas of human thought and feeling that were altogether new to western culture.
Adored every chapter. A must read for any student of English history or language!
Beautifully done. I am thinking over the progression of 'internalization' that Barfield outlines. Some are alarmed by this tendency in the history of world concept. I believe I have found a new appreciation for the 'romantics', however, in his proposition of romanticism as a long incubated and rightful reinstatement of the mysteries - the mythos. Dreaming dreams in the latter days.
It is a story of how words have changed, sometimes even flipping their meanings, and Barfield has an idea or two as to why they changed in that way.Like most of Barfield, it has its pedantic or frustratingly obtuse moments but is at least five-sixths brilliant.
Now that we have the technology to test some of these assertions about how, when, and why words changed to a degree unthinkable in Barfield's time, I think this little book could provide several theses's worth of hypotheses that Google lit searches could illuminate.
I'd like to trust but verify, and this book is about the original data Barfield's working from, so this has inside it a way to reproduce his assertions.
I quite liked it but it has some problems, most of which it shares with aspects of Tolkien's "On Fairy-Stories" and "Mythopoeia" (Tree and Leaf) and C.S. Lewis' Space Trilogy.Barfield traces the development of the Indo-European mindset through explication of the etymologies of choice word groups--first geographically with a focus on England, then conceptually.
Nineteenth-century science, on the other hand, deduced the inner from the outer [...], but was wellnigh bankrupt as far as the inner world was concerned.Barfield does not seem to recognize that this is an unequal comparison.
If you have a perspective (or can gain one) from an English reader from England, this book will be easier to grasp than if you maintain a purely American perspective. It is a fascinating study of how history has developed from the adoption (and adaptation) of words into the English language. It is a word study so it is not designed with a compelling plot (though the course of human history is a fairly compelling story) adn there is detail that could be considreed tedious but, if you enjoy learning about words, this is a wonderful little book.
*3.5 stars*Barfield gets a little out of his depth in moments when he strays from etymology to answering why words changed meaning. Other than those few moments of confusion or combination of sources, this book is worth reading for those interested in language and its history.
The book I read is from 1926, first edition, and I was initially a bit put off by the use of words that now have strong connotations--largely negative ones--that would have been more neutral in 1926 (ie, Aryan, etc).
Current linguistic theory has cast a bit of doubt on some of his claims, but the book is fun anyway, and still relevant in its assertion that society and technical innovations and conquests and warfare and religion and pretty much everything get encoded into language.
This book had a LOT to it, a really all-over-the-place book at times really without category.
He unexpectedly got right into the natures of experience, consciousness and meaning - and how the very ability to talk about these things developed and mutated in English.
However this fascinating stuff is incidental, and the core content of the book as the name suggests is a reflection of history (of Europe) in the etymology and use of English words.
Really cool stuff, does connect a lot of dots, but the pace does waver and wander, and he does get a bit too tediously list-friendly at times.Put me to sleep within a page many many nights.
Barfield looks at the English language and the dates at which certain words entered the language, and what this can tell us of the prevailing social conditions. He takes this right back to words common to various Indo-European languages.
I’m sure to a linguist this is a great book, but sadly I’m not a linguist. Many interesting things, but a tad bit boring for me
This is a very readable book that anyone with half an interest in history or in the English language ought to crack open and enjoy.
Owen Barfield is one of the sheerest relativists I've ever read, and his book's biggest flaw seems to stem from an uncertainty of the relationship between thoughts and feelings and concepts, and the words that are by them represented.
But to say that those thoughts, or feelings, or concepts, would not have, or could not have, existed without the words is, I think, foolish.
For if language is to make any sense in a genuinely human way, if it is to satisfy the merest criteria of common sense, then words must be understood not as the seed of thoughts and feelings (a metaphor Barfield uses more than once) but as their shell, their dried, outer husk.
Excellent stuff - Barfield was brilliant.
Then again, he may have qualified it so I would have to go back and look at it again."Without making a study of the Septuagint, it is easy to perceive how passionate Hebrew meanings were gradually imported into the cold and clear-cut Greek words, until classical Greek had grown slowly into the 'Hellenistic' Greek of the New Testament.
Anyway, the book is good, but just note that it is probably so well told that it's probably not quite true and should be double checked by specialists except in regards to the etymology which is uniformly instructive, though not as living as Studies in Words.
Through comparative philology, Barfield speculates on connections to other languages and the movement of peoples indicated by the transformation of sounds and meanings.
Barfield discusses how the words used in each area and the evolution of their meaning over time indicates cultural transformations.
That sense had to await the time when the imaginative function came to be prized through literary movements such as Romanticism.The book does not have a lot of in-text citations, but the afterword credits the Oxford English Dictionary as the source of almost all word histories.
Ultimately, think what you will of the thesis, it is a great tour.I have to clarify that I genuinely recommend the book because I can also characterize it as being like a 220 page version of Sheldon Cooper's fun facts, about every subject, from TV's The Big Bang Theory.
Imagine Barfield carrying on, "Did you know that..."This book would sit comfortably on the shelf with The Splendid Century: Life in the France of Louis XIV by fellow Inkling W.H. Lewis.
The Lewis book is often jocular in choice of anecdotes and in their presentions.
Barfield's fascinating journey through the history of the English civilization - as told from the perspective of our words. Throughout, he traces the evolution of our consciousness, the awareness we had of the world and how that awareness shaped what the world appeared to us as. He captures historic trends, revolutions, antagonisms, and moments of pure beauty. Throughout the reader is treated to the fascinating etymological histories of over two hundred very English words. Quite a treat, well-researched and documented. A great companion read to C.S. Lewis' "Studies in Words."
a somewhat specious treatment of how the english words we use shape the history we assent to. it was groundbreaking when it was written, and although it is now pretty outdated, it's a quick and absorbing read. it also suggests that christianity was created in alexandria around the "birth of christ" by the fusion of jewish, egyptian, and greek philosophies... you know, if the author weren't such a good anglican, he'd have his suspicions.
This book tied my brain up in knots. It's a kind of history of the western psyche as expressed in the development of its words (word definitions being the primary human yardsticks for concepts). I want to review this more thoroughly later; I definitely want to re-read once or twice in an attempt to fit my head around it.
A wonderful book which puts history in perspective and puts humans in our place. A fascinating look at how language and our worldview developed.http://shakespeareswife.blogspot.co.u...
This elegant little book, traces the intellectually history of the English speaking world through its words. Wonderfully erudite, accessible and understated. A brilliant book, and you don't have to be a word-freak to love it.
ExcellentReally interesting read! Looking back on the history of the English language, written in wonderful style & adding to it the thoughts of the figures of that time.
Wonderful. Barfield traces our language back in through word roots and usage and draws worldview, theological and social conclusions that are astounding.
Language and words... such fascinating topics, such games we can play with them. This book appreciates the power of the word and lets the reader have fun while exploring that power.
Fascinating...what would he make of emojis? Are we cycling back to an earlier stage of communication or evolving forward?
Written with an obvious bias towards English superiority
