https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/3888.The_America_s_Test_Kitchen_Family_Cookbook
My husband's family has commented many times on what a good cook I am...and 99.9% of the reason goes to this book!
I am black and white when it comes to cooking, I follow the instructions to the letter.
I haven't made all of the recipes but every one I've tackled has turned out great and everyone has loved them!
Now, this is not a low fat cookbook, so I really only use it for special occasion cooking.
I love this book!
If you want to fool everyone into thinking you are a master chef (and you can follow a recipe) then get this book..you won't regret it!
I love this cookbook, and don't think I can say enough good things about it.
It's great for basics, and has many recipes that I come back to again and again.
Most are great for weeknight cooking, and the directions are very easy to follow - many with photographed step-by-step instructions.
This is a great book for beginning cooks as well as more advanced cooks who are looking to add some variety to the rotation of weeknight dinners.
You can rearrange the pages, putting your favorites in a group in front, or messy chefs can remove the pages and put them in plastic sleeves while cooking.
I read a whole lot of cookbooks, collect masses of recipes, and do an awful lot of cooking and baking.
This is far and away the absolute best cookbook I've seen out there--and I was raised on both Betty Crocker AND Better Homes & Gardens cookbooks.
They take a very scientific approach to developing recipes and testing ingredients/cookware.
This allows them to figure out how things could go wrong and use somewhat nontraditional approaches that make food better.
This is the only cookbook I've used where EVERY SINGLE RECIPE I've tried came out beautifully--and even looking like the pictures!
If I were to own just one cookbook, it would be this one.
It contains a staggering number of recipes, like any good cookbook should, but the best part is the multitude of helpful culinary hints.
How should I store lettuce?
What is an acceptable substitute for buttermilk?
How can I tell if my bread dough is adequately proofed?
What the hell does it mean to proof bread dough, anyway?
At 700+ pages it commands a sizable portion of the shelf, but the ring binding is perfect for laying open on the bar without risk of flopping shut halfway through cooking.
I picked this book up at a Costco of all places because it was cheap and I'd tried and liked some recipes from the Cook's Illustrated magazine.
I can't think of a recipe in this book that I've tried that hasn't turned out well.
The recipes culled together in this book are for the most part very simple to understand and do, even if you don't know cooking jargon.
Like the magazine, there are tips throughout on best brands for certain recipes and basic cooking techniques, and how to choose the right cut of meat.The emphasis here is on using real, unprocessed, full fat food, though not necessarily fried and unhealthy.
The great thing about this cookbook is that the authors have tested so many different ways to make the same dish and they present the easiest, best tasting way.Because the authors are so precise, the timing of these recipes is not for those living at 8500 feet (like me).
For most of these recipes, I have had to adapt the cooking time more so than with other cook books.My favorite recipe for meatloaf is in here - All-Anerican Meatloaf.
If I could have just one cookbook for family meals, this is the one I would keep.
I use it at least once a week.
It's my go-to cookbook for dinner basics like meatloaf, tacos, sloppy joes and breakfast food like pancakes and waffles.
The recipe for French toast is the best - who knew flour in the batter is the key to keeping it crisp.
I like the 3-ring edition better than the updated hardcover edition because I like to pull out a page instead of coking from a bulky book.
This is a great gift for graduates and newlyweds.
My stepchildren (who are deathly afraid of any food that looks "different" ie didn't come from a box) will eat everything I've made from this cookbook. The orange chicken & green beans is great (but too much soy sauce & chili paste for me). We have it every Thursday night! DH makes the peanut butter cookies on a regular basis, and they rarely last more than a day.
So far, all the recipes have come out very tasty. Some of the recipes are a little fussy, and a few seemed like they created way too many dirty dishes. I'm going to be trying more of them, I haven't found one I wouldn't make again yet.Highlights: The tomato sauce that accompanies the lasagna recipe is fantastic, and really easy!The meatloaf is the best I've eaten.
The book just arrived in the mail this morning, so I haven't had time to actually try any recipes, but coming from America's Test Kitchen, the recipes tend to work every time (I've had ONE recipe fail, from the American Classics cookbook).
Someone with particularly fine-tuned taste buds will love what you make by following every step in any of the recipes.If one is new to the kitchen and wants to expand beyond following directions on boxes, this cookbook is a good place to start.
It won't take the place of my old and well-loved Joy of Cooking, which has never failed me, but this is an excellent addition to the kitchen.
I absolutely love this cookbook!
I consider it my cooking Bible because it's absolutely packed with every basic recipe you could ever need!
It's similar to the classic Betty Crocker and Better Homes and Garden's all purpose cookbooks but better!
Like their Cook's Illustrated products, America's Test Kitchen recipes have great directions and explanations for why things work.
This book is great for a beginner cook who is trying to learn the ropes (seriously it would be next to impossible to mess up their recipes with all the explanations and pictures they provide), but it also is a great book for a more experienced cook.
i am so excited to have found the joy of cooking/betty crocker cookbook of the 21st century.
you can't really beat the nerd chef's appeal of this cookbook.
with fabulous little hinty-bits about techniques AND they also test products and give recommendations about the best things to buy.
now, as one that doesn't necessarily appreciate product placement, this part was a little weird and it definitely dates the book as time passes, but all the same, it does influence me as i think the america's test kitchen really is an authority source (i am sway-able).
probably totally nerdy for me to add this, but seriously, this book answers any questions for the everyday cook. I sometimes just sit and read it. Way good recipes with explanations as to why they did certain things. It's full of good tips and photos and ratings for different brands of what to buy and things like that. Anyone who likes to cook should get it and read it!
I love this Cookbook...I've made many recipes, and the kids have eaten most, if not all of them. This is my go-to cookbook when I can't figure what I want to cook that night...or for when I'm menu-planning for the week.
One of my favorite cookbooks. I love ATK. The recipes are very detail oriented, ingredient heavy, and labor intensive, but so delicious! Not your calorie counter cookbook.
Again, this is a book I return to again and again to get information or to look up standard recipes. A must have for any kitchen.
This cookbook is my go-to for learning most basic American dishes and dishes adapted for American cooks. Some of the recipes can be a little complex in order to get the best results, but you really learn why you are doing what you are doing. What makes food good? What makes average food just ok, and what makes a truly excellent dish excellent? And everything I've tried by America's Test Kitchen turns out spot on as long as I follow the recipe closely, which is very helpful for learning technique as well as getting food on the table.
This is one of my go to books for basic recipes.
I have read this cookbook cover-to-cover countless times. I have made nearly every recipe (minus the wedding cake) and each recipe has been 10/10 success. Do all the tiny steps seem daunting and slightly annoying? Yes. Worth it in the end? Definitely. I would recommend to any and everyone.
It is a great cookbook to have on hand for the everyday basics and has tons of info such as equipment recommendations and the best tasting brands of various food products.
A lot of the recipes include a wide range of variations you can use depending on your taste and/or mood which increases the overall amount of recipes you can make.
And not everything in the book was the absolute best version of that recipe that I'd ever tasted.
I highly recommend this cookbook, especially if you're looking for a book that has a lot of basics and regular everyday meals.
I really want to get some of the other America's Test Kitchen cookbooks now!
Literally my kitchen bible.
I wish there were more photos, and the looseleaf format hasn't held up well, but this is my kitchen go-to for....
The biggest downside is that when there is a choice between fat and lean, this cookbook always picks fat; and the recipes are often not naturally kosher - I have to adjust them.
I find the recipes less complex in here than in the Cook's Illustrated recipes, so this is a more suitable basic cookbook for someone who just wants to cook and get out of the kitchen than some of the other books produced by America's Test Kitchen.
My second favorite cookbook (only coming up second to "The Flavor Bible"), and my most favorite cook book of recipes.
We received this as a wedding gift from one of my parents sweet friends, and we've been in love (with each other and the book) ever since.I've always wanted to know 'the best' recipe for this, that, and everything in between.
Oh, and what size egg is best, and who makes the best ingredient for that, and what makes this come out flat?Favorite recipe so far: Eggplant Parmesan...HUGE family favorite.
I have tried about 50 recipes from this and most I have cooked or would cook again.
The book doesn't have a gimmick-it is full of good, solid food that would please crowds of people with varied tastes.
Some of my favorite recipes include weeknight chili, stuffed bell peppers, creamed spinach, cream biscuits, sugar cookies, molasses spice cookies, and snickerdoodles.
Once in awhile you'll come across a recipe too fussy for the family chef, but the overwhelming majority are realistic and have a good effort/quality balance.
And they come out as they're supposed to!
This is by far my favorite cookbook I've owned.
I think I might need to get my hands on the newer edition of this cookbook.
I'm generally not a fan of new editions b/c often my favorite recipes have been changed.
In this case, though, the design of the cookbook needed serious improvement.
ATK's recipes are tried and tested to ensure they always work.
This is a very user-friendly cookbook which contains lots of helpful pages like "good salad combinations" to provide endless variations.
The recipes are delicious and many are family and weekday friendly.
I hear they've fixed that in the 2010 edition, so look for that one.
So I like to read cookbooks.
I learned a lot of useful things about the science behind cooking.
I've liked most of the recipes I've tried so far.
Those that I didn't care for turned out fine, I just didn't like the seasoning.
We aren't very adventureous around here so things like curry didn't go over very well.
I'd highly recommend this cookbook to anyone who cooks.
Knowing the "why" behind the methods has really improved my cooking and the chemistry gives me something to think about besides all of the dishes I'm dirtying!
Received this as a bridal shower gift from a friend who loves to bake and insists that late one night she wandered into her kitchen to discover this book kicking Betty Crocker's ass.
I haven't made much from this book yet, but so far, the recipes I have made have been mighty tasty.
Unfortunately, there is a large meat section filled with tons of gross dead animal pictures.
The seafood section is especially creepy.
The recipes use a lot of fresh ingredients ~ which is why everything turns out so tasty, but it can be expensive to make an item from this book if you don't have everything on hand.
Well, if it is or not, mine is signed.
I was living in Boston (where ATK is located) when this one came out, so I went to the book signing.
Very interesting listening to the cooks interact and explain what they do and don't like about the book, and about their customers!
They all seemed quite frustrated that people don't tend to follow precisely the recipes that they work so hard on.
A great book but, to be honest, recipes do tend to be a bit too exact for me; I like to experiment and take shortcuts.
I just discovered the convenience of checking cookbooks out from the library, and this was the first one I did.
This is a great general cookbook, and if I didn't already have my dog-eared Joy of Cooking, I would buy this one.
I also own the Cook's Illustrated Best Recipe book, and I like that one better for the detailed explanations of why they selected certain ingredients and methods in one recipe over another.
But this is definitely a cookbook I'd give as a housewarming gift to friends who were still novices in the kitchen.
My mom gifted me this in 2006, when I was a grad student living on my own and desperately needed to learn to cook.
This cookbook taught me to cook, along with cultivating a better sense of taste and an appreciation for fine food made from normal ingredients.
In 6 years, only a handful of recipes have been deemed "never cook again" - and that's out of hundreds of recipes I've tried (yes, I counted up every recipe I made out of this particular book).
Whenever I cook from this book for company, everyone wants the recipe.
You can't go wrong!
Great slow cooker recipes!
