https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/13543093-the-better-angels-of-our-nature
Pinker conveniently blames Marxism (and leftism in general is caricatured the whole way through) as the singularly destructive ideology of modern times (without acknowledging the dangers of his own classical liberal ideology) and throws in 'a few other individuals' to the mix as the responsibles for the genocides of the 20th century, and the increase in violence in 1960s, 70s, and 80s.
(He is talking about the West here, but even elsewhere the trend is unmistakeable.) Studies suggest that this is not just a consequence of changing attitudes, but a cause of them, particularly given that ‘the one great universal in the study of violence is that most of it is committed by fifteen-to-thirty-year-old men.’ Pinker hones in on the obvious implications:Would the world be more peaceful if women were in charge?
But it is an ambitious book and is in some respects a new sort of history - almost a moral history of the world and Pinker deserves praise for the attempt.
The scholarship is immaculate, the intentions are noble and the conclusions are plausible but I would still wager that Pinker would fail to convince the majority of his readers.
I was disappointed that Pinker does not explore the preventive powers of sheer skepticism.
This to me is the real cause for optimism (of the measured and skeptical sort, as is our wont now).
Pinker can sling the statistical jargon (Poisson processes, power laws, the gambler's fallacy, the Gini coefficient) like a pro, but all the jargon in the world cannot make up for his recurrent habit of over- or mis-interpreting data whose limitations he consistently glosses over.
Just as Pinker's breezy insistence that the only meaningful way to interpret the number of people killed in a given conflict is relative to the world's population at the time is surely meaningless to anyone who has lost a family member in battle.
Whereas his previous attempt in The Blank Slate: The Modern Denial of Human Nature was a vehicle for his ideological ramblings, it was at least not based on a gaping statistical flaw and had some value in refuting common misconceptions, even if it did so in a fundamentally dishonest way.Whatever redeeming qualities to be found in Better Angels are far outweighed by the failure of Pinker's thesis.
Fortunately, the good folks at Quodlibeta, actual historians, have broken down a good deal of the historical and statistical flaws in the book (starting here): http://bedejournal.blogspot.com/2011/...Considering he has been "refining" this argument since The Blank Slate (read: futilely polishing a turd), Pinker seems unlikely to back down.
In this book, Steven Pinker explores a very controversial thesis, that is, violence is declining.
The first chapters are not particularly "heavy" reading, but towards the end of the book, it can be tough-going--but fascinating throughout.Pinker tackles the main objection to his thesis--the three worst dictators of the twentieth century (Hitler, Stalin, Mao) were responsible for an immense amount of violence, deaths and misery.
Very true indeed.Pinker shows how game theory plays a big role in the evolution of morality.
As with all of Steven Pinker's writings, this book is fascinating, comprehensive, and sure to be controversial.
No, Pinker's emotional, irrational underlying argument is the following: 1) Enlightenment humanism, secularism and atheism are the only cultural forces for good in the world.
See how Pinker references his ridiculously insufficient excursus through MLK's cultural influences:"As we saw, Martin Luther King rejected mainstream Christian theology and drew his inspiration from Gandhi, secular Western philosophy, and renegade humanistic theologians".Wait, we "saw" what???
This kind of world-wide smear is something you can do when you’re talking about people who aren’t Harvard academics, and can’t take you to task for what you’re saying.His methods for tallying war deaths are shoddy and insane, and all the non-state societies he looks at are are on the edge of states, dealing firsthand with imperial violence.He's constantly flirting with eugenicist narrations -- the Yanomami and the Maori are just genetically more violent, while white europeans maybe are genetically gentler.
And he does so by positing the issue of excessive violence in terms of biological necessity, but resolves its decrease through ambiguous channels such as self control, empathy, reverse morality and, incongruously, and ultimately, the Flynn effect.Hence the incompatibility?
He therefore suggests that the 20th century has seen a “moral Flynn effect, in which an accelerating escalator of reason carried us away from impulses that lead to violence” and that this lies behind the long peace, the new peace, and the rights revolution.
First, Pinker concedes the impulse to violence is biologically driven.
So, if Steven Pinker had been a little more humble and had spoken of current times as pretty nice for some without necessarily approaching the best of all possible worlds, I could better countenance him.
One of Pinker's main arguments for the decline of violence is that a lower percentage of humans suffer violence now than in the early modern period, medieval times, the Renaissance, or in antiquity or prehistory.
(view spoiler)[For a long time I've been aware that religion takes the suffering of violence and turns it upside down.
Steven Pinker certain ranges widely in intellectual circles. Although he is nominally a professor of psychology at Harvard, but even with specialties (per Wikipedia) in experimental psychology, cognitive science, linguistics, he somehow dove into history to present one of the best TED Talks, back in 2007:  Steven Pinker on the myth of violence  (watch those nineteen minutes, if you haven't already).Wonderfully, he has now followed that presentation up with an entire volume.Peter Singer wrote the
(watch those nineteen minutes, if you haven't already).Wonderfully, he has now followed that presentation up with an entire volume.Peter Singer wrote the glowing review of this book for the New York Times, and that somewhat lengthy essay is itself well worth reading: 
Poked around and found a review, also covering A History of Violence: From the End of the Middle Ages to the Present, titled 
.Yet another update — since I bought the book, I'm hoping to read it again after I finish a few others.
Meanwhile, I've found a few other reviews and interviews.The philosopher Nigel Warburton interviews Steven Pinker on the Social Science Bites podcast.
Isn't it incredibly telling that in an EIGHT-HUNDRED-page book about the history of world politics and violence, the word "imperialism" is not uttered at all.
In one of the most embarrasing moments of the book, «we are seriously asked to draw conclusions from a graph of the "rate of battle deaths in state-based armed conflicts between 1900 and 2005" (Figure 6-1) while being instructed to ignore the figures for the first and second world wars»**.
Why should we ignore two world wars, while looking at the history of wars, you ask?
Steven Pinker’s "The Better Angels of Our Nature: Why Violence Has Declined" is a big ambitious book.
The point of the book is simple: to outline how violence has decreased, and to answer why so that we may learn from our successes and continue to replicate them.
The book might strike some as counter-intuitive -- in the time of Rwanda, Darfur, Iraq, mass-casualty terrorism, runaway gun violence in the US, and much, much more, it would seem like our times are just "another bloody century".
Peace researchers who are aware of one of type of literature might be bored by some chapters of the book, and yet, find themselves enthralled by others.
However, Steven Pinker's The Better Angels of Our Nature will show you your feelings are misguided- crime and violence in society is lower than it has ever been, and our often idealized past (even the recent past) was a very violent and scary place.Before you read this book (and you should read it) be aware that it is Looooong.
The reality of contemporary crime and violence is completely contrary to the apocalyptic vision presented by fearmongering politicians and news outlets and The Better Angels of our Nature, or at least a summary of Pinker’s findings, should be compulsory reading for anyone standing for public office.
(I am not a very fast reader, but I'm usually faster than that.) The exercise of following a really long, complex, sustained argument was probably good for me.Seven chapters of convincing examination of historical evidence to the best approximation that could be managed, all of which jibes well with what I know or have experienced of history, followed by three chapters of attempts to figure out the why of the what.
I was very interested in the brief survey of recent formulations in neurology and cognitive psychology that he used to underpin his arguments.
In fact Pinker supports scepticism as he suggested on page 217 when discussing the Enlightenment.
As a westerner living a very comfortable life in Australia I was intrigued to read a comment by US politician John Kerry on page 417.
As a former law-enforcement person, I know we’re never going to end prostitution.
But we’re going to reduce it, organised crime, to a level where it isn’t on the rise.
This book covered a variety of female issues and after conversation elsewhere I even read On Rape by Germaine Greer.
So does Pinker say we are in for even less violence in the future?
Pinker points out with the exception of 2001 and 1995 “more Americans were killed each year from lightening, deer, peanut allergies, bee stings, and ‘ignition or melting nightwear’ than by terrorist attacks.” So the recent trend, despite all the histrionics, is toward less violence, but it only takes one megalomaniac with nuclear weapons to undo all the trend lines.The sixth trend Pinker calls the Rights Revolutions, which were primarily due to the increase in access to information exposing people to new ideas and different viewpoints.
No frikin' way - just look at the news." But be assured - after you read only a few pages of this book, you'll be reminded of what life used be like in the foreign country called The Past and you just might change your tune and recognize how, for large sectors of the world's population, life today is less violent, less brutal, and less cruel.
Pinker's basic thesis is that, no matter how you look at the data, no matter what time frame, no matter what part of the world or what era, and no matter what form it takes, violence, cruelty, and brutality in human society has declined over time.
I have recently learned about some stunning statistical anomalies and misinterpretations in here which I had shamefully missed. A simple understanding of Chinese history in the 20th century already seems to be a profound stumbling block for this hypothesis. The jury is out. Further deliberation continues.
Mind-blowing book! I have never read a book about history and statistics that was this interesting. I love how Steven Pinker argues with countless studies and a great logical validity. This book is a must-read book for anyone interested in sociology, history, politics and environment. This book breaks the long romanticized picture of the past which has been filled with nostalgia and confirmation biases.
No, it didn't seem like a glaring oversight: the quickly glossed-over suggestion that racism in the US is a relic of days gone by made me think there were things Pinker wasn't telling me.
Earlier this year, I proofread an essay criticising Pinker (don't ask how I arrived there; terribly unlikely circumstance is how), apparently on the twin bases that how could you possibly know that 15th century middle England executed more people than were executed in 21st century Oxford; and the ever-classic "but NUCLEAR!"It plays with an idea that I don't think I'll ever fail to be interested by: it's why I loved The Wake so much last year, and the idea is of a magical past where everyone was nice to each other and had conversations at the dinner table, and none of these horrible new-fangled innovations existed yet to ruin everything.
Audio Books : Educational : MP3/Variable : Englishblurb - We've all had the experience of reading about a bloody war or shocking crime and asking, "What is the world coming to?" But we seldom ask, "How bad was the world in the past?" In this startling new book, the best-selling cognitive scientist Steven Pinker shows that the world of the past was much worse.
Tribal warfare was nine times as deadly as war and genocide in the 20th century.
Look at your newspapers to see that there is little decline in violence.NEXT!!9th April 2015 ETA: At last, Pinker's Emperor's New Clothes have been rumbled by someone else: http://www.theguardian.com/books/2015...
Pinker has disappointed me for so long that it is no surprise to me to discover that this is the work of a charlatan. Here on goodreads try David Giltinan's review .But also http://www.zcommunications.org/realit... is worthy of a read.Is his basic message pretty much that if first world white people aren't dying, then violence is decreasing? And has this been greeted with great approbation in - ummm - the first white world? Oh deary me.

I think sometimes Pinker dismisses serious areas of violence based on fairly spurious data like police reports.I’m not sure if this is a kneejerk feeling in myself — “colonialism can’t be an unalloyed good!” — or whether it’s an actual issue in the data.
Also, he is talking specifically about violence, not about crime in general — which surely means that non-violent thefts, white collar crime, etc, are not included in his dataset.While I’m not ultimately sure how much to believe this, I enjoyed Pinker’s discussion of the issues, his potential explanations of the data, and his deconstruction of the violent bases of things like the Bible and the code of chivalry.
I was recently listening to a BBC interview with two historians on the An Lushan rebellion, and the interviewer read a passage from Pinker's book in which he argued that this Chinese civil war was primary evidence for his thesis that human violence used to exist on a scale we would find hard to believe, from our current perspective.
That is, what if a history professor wrote an eclectic book on cognitive linguistics that was fundamentally at odds with the consensus of linguists everywhere, and that relied overwhelmingly for support on a single source, which was itself entirely the work of an untrained amateur?
Steven Pinker is fast becoming a favorite author of mine.
Everything he writes is so interesting.
He really knows how to pick a topic and provide relevant research and feedback for that topic.
As a non fiction lover he is straight to the point but still interesting and relevant.
Perfect voice for his audience.
I think his topic of violence is facinating.
We are very easily influenced by this idea that the world is less safe and less secure because of the media and our own warped perceptions.
Steven does an excellent job of rectifying this vantage point using statistical evidence and emotional pull.
Thank you again Steven for another fantastic read.
No stone is left unturned as Pinker takes us through a detailed statistical analysis of the levels of violence through the ages.
The last few hundred pages then shift to a neurological and psychological study of what causes humans to act violently and how and why this might be trending down.Overall, Pinker leaves us with a positive view of the future and of how much progress we have made already.
To answer that question, you’d need to look at the annual death rate from wars and atrocities, per 1,000 people, and because the annual death rate might fluctuate markedly from year to year as atrocities come and go, you’d need to average the annual death rate out over the course of a century, in order to get a typical figure that represented your annual risk of dying as a result of an atrocity."- the two atrociologists he cites both disagree with him that the 20th century has been the least violentFor a full review of Pinker Bogus statistics read:http://www.uncommondescent.com/intell...- Pinker book has quite an Imperialist American-centric point of view.
An interesting idea, but Pinker fails to deliver a convincing argument.
The subject of the book is violence, and Pinker argues that 1) violence has declined historically, and 2) that the decline is due to a number of factors.
First, he never defines "violence", a rather big problem since the book is about violence.
From his examples, I infer that he defines violence as acts of physical violence between humans.
A large part of the book is about ideology and its use for violence, but Pinker steadfastly refuses to discuss any violent tendencies of his own Liberal Enlightenment ideology.
