https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/11785.Zombie
I HATED this book!
It was excellently written and it did what it was supposed to do...it scared the crap out of me.
This is a character study of a social deviant.
I don't want to spoil this for anyone who reads it, so I won't give away the ending, but definitely not something you read while lying on the beach catching your tan.
You come face to face with the evil and cunning of the sociopathic and psychotic mind.
Kudos to Joyce Carol Oates for what I consider a brave, realistic creepy and excellently executed foray into the criminal mind.
But I still HATED it...in a good way.
Now then, I've read "What I Lived For" and I know Joyce Carol Oates can write like a living goddess so that means she can churn out this Zombie kind of stuff before she's finished her morning muesli.
I think someone must have drilled a hole in Joyce's head.
A ruthless, blindingly-ugly, revealing character study of a sexual psychopath.Joyce Carol Oates, I now officially forgive you for the tedium of We Were the Mulvaneys.
This book was all that Mulvaneys was NOT - brilliantly written, brave, and (maybe most importantly) brief.It became clear to me after reading this book that Quentin P is based at least loosely on real life serial killer Jeffrey Dahmer, which is interesting from a historical perspective.
No mercy, perhaps, until you close the book, and find that you are secure in your own killer-free existence, with comfortable things like morals and conscience floating around nearby.But therein lays the brilliance.
Damn, Joyce, I didn't know you rolled like that.
I walked into this book entirely blind and assumed because of the title that I'd see dead people a la World War Z.
I really don't like dystopian books or vampires or zombies, but doing one of those type books by this author?
Because, friends, it is VERY realistic!October and Halloween are coming up, and while this is a short book, it is so disturbingly creepy that 200 pages is plenty.
Excellent and on my Favorites shelf._______________________"Joyce Carol Oates is not only one of the most acclaimed authors of our time—her more-than-forty novels, novellas, plays, short stories, poetry, and nonfiction works have earned her a National Book Award, two O.
It does not take us "into the mind of a serial killer." It is not "harrowing," and it's not "disturbing." It is a strained and earnest attempt to imagine the kind of life that would decisively overturn bourgeois values.
Even the most surprising lines pale as soon as they're read, because it becomes clear that they are imagined by a novelist, working in an upper-middle class suburb, with the help of years of research into serial killers.
but not in the way you might imagine.I thought I knew what I was getting into when I picked up a book told from the POV of a sexually depraved serial killer dabbling in icepick lobotomies.
Maybe the novel ends with a stunning flourish, but here's one reader who simply got tired of spending any more time in such unscintillating company.To sum up, my disappointment with Zombie has nothing to do with its graphic nature, and everything to do with the fact that its protagonist is not only unlikeable but as banal as an adolescent girl with a crush.
Joyce Carol Oates has created a novel so eerie and unnerving that the words "enjoyment," "escapism," and "entertaining" are totally inapplicable.
But it is a masterfully written tale with the kind of skillfulness you'd expect from Oates, who is a phenomenal writer.
I'm not going to write much more about this because I've got other books waiting for me tonight, but what I will say is that you should only read ZOMBIE if you have a strong stomach.
Now if you'll excuse me, I'm going to crawl into a corner and shiver for several minutes.
Ya que conocerás a Quentin y su obsesión por convertirse en el amo de un zombie que le cumpla todos sus deseos carnales, pero para alcanzarlo deben existir muchos muertos.
La autora sabe usar las palabras idóneas para entender la mente enferma de un asesino.
3. El final , aunque bastante predecible, nos da la pauta a creer que la familia también tenía sus desvarios.
Y el hecho de usar picahielos y dibujos para explicar los actos atroces de nuestro asesino hacen a esta novela se vuelva algo perversa.
An unpleasant book, taking you, with absolute lack of Hanniballian romance, into the petty, insignificant mind of a serial killer.
To destroy the romance of serial killing: it's like that scene in Sandman where Morpheus takes away the illusions at the "Cereal Convention," only the illusion is actually taken away, not handwaved as one of Morpheus's gestures.
A man with a dead-end job, greasy stolen glasses, and a beige van with a flag decal in the back window.
Serial killing in its beige, potbellied, ALL CAPS & badly punctuated glory.
Se me contraía todo el cuerpo en las escenas desagradables, lo que es prácticamente todo el tiempo, y a veces me daban ganas de cerrar los ojos como si en lugar de leyendo estuviera viendo una película.Siempre me han intrigado las lecturas narradas desde el punto de vista de una persona con alguna enfermedad mental.
Adentrarme en la cabeza y descubrir la forma de pensar de una persona así, ya sea brevemente y de forma imaginaria, me llama la atención.En este libro hay mucho de eso, es decir, a pesar de todas las atrocidades y su más que evidente locura puedes entender su “razonamiento”.
Ha sido tan desagradable que no he disfrutado y la verdad es que he dado las gracias de que sea una lectura corta.
Joyce Carol Oates snared my attention in her old short story, Where Are You Going, Where Have You Been? In her novel, Zombie, (1995), she writes in a first person narrative of a psychopath who has a crush on various youthful men, and uses devilish means to capture them and use them as sex slaves. In turns, quizzically funny and nasty, the writings are merely scribbles and with various doodles in the borders that take on sinister meanings as you read the story. As a reader I am a little put off
In turns, quizzically funny and nasty, the writings are merely scribbles and with various doodles in the borders that take on sinister meanings as you read the story.
As a reader I am a little put off by various means of initials and symbols and not LOL in the course of this clever novelette.
She is brilliant when writing from another gender, including her descriptions of what it is like to have a raging hard on.
Joyce Carol Oates continues to be fearlessly brilliant and scary and she wields her pen like a butterfly knife, cutting her faithful readers into ribbons with the hardcore scenes that she always comes up with.
Absolutely chilling and fully realized as a character study, if salacious and a bit gratuitous.
Read more (http://cjlistro.blogspot.com/2012/05/...) Anyone who knows me well knows that I have a bit of an obsession with serial killers.
So after a conversation about Jeffrey Dahmer the other day (yes, the glamorous life of a psych grad student), I recalled a former lit professor having mentioned this evilly wonderful novel by Joyce Carol Oates, one of the underappreciated literary greats.
But Oates’ descriptions are so perfect (for example, "My whole body is a numb tongue.") that you feel every sensation, from Quentin’s queer psychopathic glee to the sharp point of that ice pick.
{March 8th, 2015} IM DONE FINALLYYYYY1.5 stars.I just can't with this book.
It just left me rubbing my eyes wanting to get rid of all the disturbing imagery.
Besides the way it was written annoyed me ("and" becoming "&"), the subject matter itself is so surreal.
Like you seriously grabbed a serial pedo killer and reached into his/her brain.
I don't think I'll ever look at a killer the same way ever again...especially thanks to Quentin.
I actually finished the book running away, yelling "IM DONE IM DONE JUST TAKE THE INFERNAL MONSTER AWAY." not kidding*shudders and goes to scrub her brain and everything*
It made me more uncomfortable than anything I've read recently. The first person narration is unnervingly believable; it was not what I might have imagined a serial killer's voice to be, but it is now. A lot of Goodreads reviewers seem to think that great books cannot be this upsetting. While I disagree with that premise and do consider this a very good piece of writing, I can't give it stars. It just isn't shiny.**I have since given it stars. Distance helped me heal.
Very disturbing, creepy story told from the pov of a psychopath. I've read alot of horror/thrillers and little makes me flinch but a few scenes in this made me cringe! Unusual writing style which added to the story. My first by Joyce Carol Oates and not really what I was expecting and in a good way I disliked it :-) The ending was a bit abrupt.
is like any one of us in that sense, at least.Zombie is a diary of sorts.
The owner/writer of this diary is Quentin P.
Ms. Oates takes the time not only to basely illustrate the text in several places (a quick freehand diagram of the rear of Quentin's "All-American" van, for instance, or the fractional sketch of the burning of a young Q_ P_'s porngraphic magazines), but also to select the most appropriate typeface with which to "reprint" the diary.Zombie is a non-stop flight into horror with a madman as the pilot.
And with you, the reader, serving as unwitting co-pilot.
This book came to mind today as I was browsing a discussion thread titled, "Do you have to like the narrator to enjoy the book?" Quentin, the decidedly unlikeable narrator of Oates' 1995 novel Zombie, kidnaps young men, holds them captive in his house, and then applies an icepick to their brains in his quest to create the perfect zombie love slave.
And then he does something terrible with them.The chicks notwithstanding, I didn't much like Quentin, nor did I enjoy the book.
This is perhaps as disturbing as it gets, while still actually being published by a publisher. Zombie is somewhat reminiscent of The Collector both in regards to the high quality quirky writing and the theme, but without the pretense of civilization and decency. The psycho point of view is just so... Perfect! And having just read one other Oates book before I really had no idea she was an author capable of writing something like this.
Increíble la capacidad de Oates para penetrar en una mente y contar la historia sin perder un ápice de la calidad que le caracterizahttp://entremontonesdelibros.blogspot...
I am afraid of Joyce Carol Oates. How did she ever think to write such a disturbing story? It's as if we were watching the most frightening Criminal Minds episode exclusively from the point of view of the obviously deranged stalker/serial killer/rapist and could not turn off the television. I am still shivering. And yet, I really liked this book.
Not the JCO I remember. Meet Quentin: a violent serial-rapist/killer and pedophile. Oates places the reader inside the mind of a social deviant, but succeeds only insofar as she shocks. These moments are daring enough to outweigh sudden, dramatic shifts in tone and style, which the narrative occasionally suffers from—switching from pedantic, broken English to deep, allegorical, highly poetic aphorism. The latter would feel more compelling (and authentic) if it didn't arrive at such odds with the rest of the slim volume's sparse, reflexive style of writing.Altogether chilling, with a daringly auspicious ending...
This was a real page-turner for me, a single afternoon read. It's written in a diary style from the point of view of a very believable childlike predator. I read a lot of true-crime and consider myself well-versed in criminal psychology, and I thought that the restraint practiced by the author in terms of only recording things from the sophomoric emotional state of a stunted and sad murderer was remarkable. Well-executed work that I will enjoy using as a basis for the author's other creations.Fans of this book should try Perv: A Love Story, by Jerry Stahl.
Lol the title cleverly references how the author wrote this on autopilot.
Eh. Decent read told from the perspective of a serial killer. Author uses caps a lot to underscore certain points or words, gets annoying after awhile.
Για πέταμα δεν είναι αλλά, μάλλον περίμενα πολύ περισσότερα. Πήρε το μάτι μου για βραβεύσεις και διθυράμβους, κι έμεινα με την απορία. Το θέμα δεν αφορούσε την ιστορία με ζόμπι που μάλλον περίμενα να διαβάσω. Ούτε το τέλος μου άρεσε.
Μου το είχε προτείνει ο φίλος Γιώργος και με το που ξαναβγήκε στην κυκλοφορία, το πήρα. Ανάμεικτες εντυπώσεις. Ενώ ξεκινά καλά και περιμένεις να μπει δυνατά η σπλατερια και η σφαγή, διαπιστώνεις ότι στο πάει γύρω γύρω. Παρόλα αυτά, έχει ωραίο κλίμα και μοιάζει σαν ένας σύγχρονος Φρανκενστάιν. Αναμφίβολα η συγγραφέας ξέρει να γράφει. 3 αστέρια γιατι περίμενα κάτι πιο σκληρό (κακή επιρροή ο Aldapuerta) και δε μου βγήκε...
There is a message that Oates is trying to communicate here that has the potential to be powerful, but it loses its punch for a couple of reasons: 1) it's the same message she and dozens of other writers are always fixated on, which is "Upper-class, white Americans can actually be pretty screwed up, and it means even more coming from me because I myself am an upper-class, white American!"; and 2) Quentin constantly going on about Time or medical procedures or giant erections makes it difficult to think about any kind of "subtext."All of that said, I don't hate this book.
I think Oates set out to create a psychopathic character, and clearly she's accomplished that, at the very least.
I understand that Joyce Carol Oates writes books that make you feel like you need a shower, and I was cool with that.
I understand that Oates is writing from the perspective of a sociopath, but this writing style is super clunky.
The other Oates book I've read was really well put together, so I don't think she's a bad writer by any stretch.
I couldn't get past the writing style to see if the content was worth anything, though from what I did gleam, I don't think this book would have been for me.
