https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/10708111-gently-does-it
Detective Inspector George Gently is a pleasure to spend time with: a methodical, deep-thinking man in his fifties, Gently is mild, quiet and rather humble.
He's also a particularly fine detective: the type who is precise, observant and never satisfied with less than the truth.Where other policemen rush to close a case early, Gently believes in taking his time.
It appears that Alan Hunter wrote a lot of books about George Gently; I can easily imagine reading them all in time and I hope I'll get the chance to.
In the foreword to this novel the author explains (or perhaps warns) the readers that this isn't a 'whodunit'.
It's true; while this is a detective novel, the reader finds out who the murderer is reasonably early on.
He's an entertaining character with a few quirks, most notably his addiction-like obsession with peppermint creams.
While Gently is nothing like Sherlock, reading this book gave me the same kind of feeling as reading the Holmes books does.P.S. For the Anglophiles out there, these books are quintessentially English.
As I read along I was reminded more of Georges Simenon's Inspector Maigret than of the British TV series, George Gently.In this early book in Hunter's series, we find Chief Inspector Gently (based in London) taking a holiday to fish in the Midlands.
(Even though this book isn't a conventional whodunit, to reveal more would spoil your pleasure.)Like Simenon's Maigret, we go along with Gently conversing with people and observing their reactions.
Like Maigret, Gently is a keen observer and both believe that when you completely understand each of the suspects, the perpetrator will be revealed.
I’m usually more of a fan of the fast-paced action thriller, but actually it was quite nice to read something a bit more laid back and relaxed – if such a thing can be said of a murdery mystery style book.I was intrigued by the author’s disclaimer at the start, that this isn’t a traditional whodunit and is more about piecing together the proof so the police have enough evidence to go to court.
I had previously read another, but now that I've got the first few books in the series, wanted to start from the beginning.I'll preface this by saying that one of my favourite TV mystery series has been the George Gently mysteries, starring Martin Shaw as the Inspector.
That is a key difference between Gently and the local police; who basically set their minds on a suspect and don't particularly care to ensure they have the necessary evidence to prove their case.Gently is an intuitive police investigator, but also likes to conduct a proper investigation.
This is the first in the Detective Inspector George Gently series and one I have been looking for, for a while since it makes the start of a series of detection novels I have found surprisingly entertaining to read.
The book is an interesting one as the author noted - it is not a whodunnit but rather an exploration of the process of detection - you quickly form an idea of who did the crime but it take the length of the book to find the evidence and the situation to properly resolve the crime and bring the case to a close.
Although a slow start to the story, I have to confess to rather enjoying the way Alan Hunter draws you in.
It's not a whodunit but a book which asks questions by finding evidence.
This is a welcome change to the usual crime thrillers that I read.
I also have to confess to being surprised at the differences between both TV series and book, both take on the Gently character exceptionally well - the book having the edge as I'm not sure the BBC casting is as effective as what it could be.
I'm sure to be continuing the series once I find my peppermint creams!!
I am in love with the TV show George Gently so when I saw it was based on a book, I knew I had to read it. The show's George (brilliantly played by Martin Shaw) and the book's George are completely different, but that does diminish the enjoyment of either one. I will definitely be reading (and watching) more of George!
Tie paskutiniai 50 psl gal ir buvo įdomiausi: atsirado kažkokios frustracijos, nuovargio, natūralumo, besiskiriančio nuo didžiosios knygos dalies, kuri ėjosi labai jau gently.Inspektorius Džentlis iš pradžių mane erzino, bet paskui pamačiau, kad tai pirmoji serijos apie jį knygą, tai pamaniau, kad gal ir atleistina.
Arba: dažnai į apklausiamo įtariamojo žodžius Džentlis atsako: "A." Ok - čia gal jam būdingas pertaras.
Beje, dialogai labai faini ir gyvi (nepaisant "A."), atrodo, taip ir matai, kaip apklausiamieji natūraliai muistosi.Paskui, atrodo, autorius nusprendė, kad individualios Džentlio charakteristikos jau įtvirtintos ir nebereikia minėti pastilės ir "A." kiekviename sakinyje, tai skaityti pasidarė daug smagiau (o gal tiesiog pripratau ir nustojau pastebėti).
I just read my first Alan Hunter book from the George Gently series.
I loved the TV show, in which Martin Shaw, played Gently.
The book had a lot of differences, as far as location and back story, however the character of George Gently himself shines through.
Martin Shaw did a superb job bringing this character to life.
In Gently Does It, a wealthy timber dealer is murdered at the same time his errant son happens to be in town.
All fingers point to the son, but Gently doesn’t believe it.
It’s nothing to do with the police.”I will definitely be reading more in this series.
Recently, I watched the first episode of Inspector George Gently with Martin Shaw and liked it, so I thought I might try the books.However, the story is a bit dated and the written inspector soon got on my nerves : he's self-deprecating (apparently, anyway), knows everything and guesses everything while everybody's mocking or underestimating him. A kind of Columbo, Miss Marple, Father Brown all together.I wasn't caught up in the story, or even remotely interested in finishing it, so I gave up.The slow pace had nothing to do with the DNF, just the characters.
I very much enjoyed this book and plan to continue the series. Gently is a wonderful character and it was a delight to learn a bit about him.
I picked up a few of these Gently books, entirely based upon my love of the BBC series.
The books are a bit different than the series, and the character of Gently himself is different.
He is also a very large man, addicted to peppermint cremes, which he ingests like a chain-smoker.Chief Inspector Gently is on a well-deserved holiday in Norchester, when he becomes involved with a local murder.
The police are at first grateful for his offer of help, but come to regret it when they find a quick and easy solution in the son of the murdered man.
Quick and easy solutions just aren't the Gently way--he wants only the truth.
I read this because I enjoyed the TV series - not the best basis for reading a book I know.
It took me a long time to read it - I kept putting it down to read other things and then coming back to it.
This was because I didn't particularly like or find any of the characters interesting enough, apart from Inspector Gently himself (and that was probably because I was thinking of the TV character).
If you don't normally read this genre then I don't think it will grab you.However, bear in mind this is the first book in a 46 book series!
Perhaps one day I'll read the next one ...
Charmingly comfortable mystery. I found out about the series by way hung episodes of the TV series. I'm always on the lookout for the words "based on the novel(s) by..."The story ambles through suspects much like Chief Inspector Gently ambles though the town on holiday, questioning.g suspects likely and unlikely with the dame quiet patience he might apply to fishing, waiting to set the hook in the most proper fish, not necessarily the biggest. I don't even know what they are, but now I have a craving for peppermint creams...
This is the first book in the series. I have watched the George Gently TV series which I have enjoyed immensely so I thought I'd start reading the books. I enjoyed the book but as I suspected it is rather different from the TV series. I particulary liked the way we are told who the murderer was but it was up to the police to find the evidence to convict the person. That was a very interesting process.
Neil downloaded this one after we both enjoyed the TV series. I really enjoyed it. Despite the warning at the beginning that we will find out whodunnit well before the end, it was three quarters of the way through before the killer was revealed and I found the tussle to find the evidence to sustain a charge kept me turning the pages just as effectively.I look forward to reading more - there are over 40 in the series, so it could become an expensive habit!
Gently is not convinced and through patient, thoughtful work is able to demonstrate that the son is unlikely to be the killer.
The interest lies in how Gently will gradually break through the fog of lies and deceits and gather the evidence he needs to find the true killer.Plotting:Subtle but credible.Characterisation:Hunter builds up a number of convincing portraits of his characters including the sceptical police detectives, the religious but hypocritical daughter, the ambitious housemaid, the slippery chauffeur, the cynical manager and the innocent son.
It is a bit of a "classic" mystery and possibly the first of the "police procedurals".
Gently is a bit different than in the show.
A bit more laconic, a bit more "laid back" and that could have been because this book takes place when Gently is supposed to be on holiday and gets roped into solving a murder just because he was there.
He gets a lot of reluctant help and hindrance from the local force but still goes his own way, and solves the case.
Like most people I've seen the television series and Martin Shaw plays the character perfectly. Our Gently is thoughtful, considered, methodical and takes his time to get the correct results. He has a penchant for peppermint creams and I was craving them by the end of the book! It made a change to read a murder mystery set in the fifties and was refreshing not having all the forensic science and technology to assist in solving the case. Well apparently I have another 40 odd to plough through so bring it on.
Gently, on holiday, is accustomed to methodically looking for patterns, while the local police he agrees to assist are happy to find a quick but short-sighted solution to the murder of a merchant. I especially liked his cat-and-mouse approach to making the villlain nervous and fearful near the end. Well-written, traditional mystery that was the start of a decades-long series (this was published in the mid-50s and Hunter passed away in 2002).
The first in the Gently series which has Gently in a Columbo-like role as a middle aged, pudgy detective, without a raincoat, but a nearly endless supply of peppermint creams. Gently keeps his own counsel, plays a bit thick headed, and claims only luck, not skill or experience.
One more author to add to my reading list. It's a genre I like and Gently's character is strong and interesting enough to keep us ruling for him. The plot is also catching, as well as the secondary characters. It doesn't hurt that I love the English background.
An interesting read, slightly different from anything I've read before. Slow paced, but Hunter paints a good picture of an English town of the era and the plot was interesting enough to keep me reading.
An interesting detective takes a busman's holiday. One almost wonders if the writers of Columbo had read this series when they created the casual persistence of that character.
Perfectly serviceable crime novel, though not in a hurry to read the next 45. Will probably dip in again though.
Pretty good read. I do like the older cozy-type mysteries, especcially the British ones. The characters are complex and believable.
I really enjoyed this book. Was intense and kept me guessing.
Hunter's method is to keep the detective passive and ironic in manner, while foes and rivals slowly drive themselves nuts as he just won't go away.
the characterization of Gently was pretty funny to me, that was what got me enjoying it right away.
Probably true for the criminal characters as well.
I don't know how much anyone else got this from this book; it was really striking me: the crowding, the restless dissatisfaction, and the incomplete relief of off-day pleasures, always sought and never fully found.
Seen with probably a mix of sympathy and distaste from the author.
There is also the subtle clue that comes when Gently states flat out what happened about 2/3 of the way through the book.(view spoiler)[I might have preferred a climax that centered more on finding proof or tricking the murderer rather than a possibly deadly confrontation with flying bullets.
It seems like a calmer ending would be more inline with the gentle story pace and main character but, at the same time, who wants an anticlimactic murder mystery ending.
The story and main character both have a more Colombo-esk style than most mystery books I have come across and I found this more unusual approach to be quite fun.
