https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/865736.The_Werewolf_of_Fever_Swamp
#14 "Who's afraid of the big, bad wolf?"They call it Fever Swamp because those who go in it end up becoming very sick and possibly dying. Grady and Emily's parents are scientist working on experiments with the local swamp deer. but right after they move in strange things start to happen. Including the appearance of a big dog and no one seems to know where it came from.
Then animals start getting brutally killed......(view spoiler)[ Will and Grady explore the swamp with Wolf.
Emily and the parents suspect Wolf is the one killing all the animals.
Cassie is convinced the swamp hermit is the werewolf and he killed the animals and Mr. Warner.
Grady gets bitten by a snake.After a deer is killed, Grady's dad is convinced Wolf is the killer and says he must be put down.
Will is going to kill Grady, but Wolf saves him and kills Will.But since Grady was bitten by Will, he's now a werewolf who hunts in the swamp the three nights a month when the moon is full.
Vi-me numa situação de ter uma hora pela frente e me ter esquecido do Kindle em casa, o que me levou a agarrar no livro que o meu filho andava ler, e assim li o meu primeiro livro da famosa série Arrepios (Goosebumps) do RL Stine.É uma série escrita para pré-adolescentes por isso apresenta um terror contido, tudo ambientado num cenário de classe média americana dos anos 1980.
Tal como esse cinema, pode-se dizer que tecnicamente conta bem a sua história, envolve os leitores através de uma boa gestão de suspense, sem nunca deslumbrar, tanto na forma como no conteúdo.Agora tenho de esperar que o miúdo acabe de ler para comparar a minha experiência com a dele!
It's been a long time since I've read a Goosebumps book (I know I'm too old to bother with them) but nostalgia is a powerful drug. This book for a middle grade fiction is actually very well-written and beyond the actual werewolf stuff, it's a story about a lonely kid experiencing moving to a weird and gross place and dealing with trying to make new friends.
Who's afraid of the big bad wolf?'The Werewolf of Fever Swamp' was the fourteenth (14th) book in the Goosebumps book series.The plot begins with the narrator of the story, Grady Tucker and his sixteen year-old sister, Emily Tucker with their scientists parents.
They moved in a new house in Florida near Swamp Hermit where deers are hardly found.
The reason why they moved in Florida is because their father, Dr. Tucker, studied deer in Vermont where he acquired six (6) "Swamp Deer" from South America and now he tries to prove that DEERS CAN LIVE IN FLORIDA.
4 of 5! Full review to come
Ahhh, the Goosebump days. I would borrow so many of these from the library they seriously considered extending my limit of books checked out at one time. R.L. Stine you were a reprieve from a harsh and dreary childhood in which my mind wandered far away from the troubles of the day. I stole books into my bed and read far into the night by the faintest of lights. I might have better eyesight were it not for you; however, I regret not one page or line.
2'5/5Típico libro sin más, que te sirve para echar el rato pero ahí se queda. Se nota mucho que está dirigido a un público infantil/juvenil y tanto el lenguaje como la trama y los personajes son muy simples. Sigue la dinámica de presentar un peligro, intentar hacerte creer que es el peligro final y en la siguiente línea descubrir que eran paranoias del personaje. Este aspecto se me hizo bastante pesado, la verdad. El final me gustó bastante, aunque es predecible como todo lo anterior. Solo recomendado a niños que disfrutan con historias de misterio.
Me: 3.5 starsSon (age 10): 4 starsDaughter (age 5): 4 starsThis was a fun book that captured our attention each time we listened in the mornings on the way to school. This was my daughter's pick but we all enjoyed guessing what was going to happen, if there was actually a real werewolf or if it was all a ruse, and we were all surprised and satisfied by the twist at the end. Thumbs up!And the narration by Ramon de Ocampo was pretty good.
This is my first goosebumps book!
I know many kids read these growing up but I was a fantasy & Science Fiction kid.
So summer is a perfect time to read this books.
I was drawn into Grady's story really quickly.
His family has just moved to fever swamp to finish some important research with deer.
The isolation is getting to Grady and his sister.
Then a new friend named Will and a dog called Wolf enter Grady's life.The fun is cut short by creepy howls in the night and mysterious animal deaths.
All these threads lead to a nice twist ending :) lots of fun
Il bacio della luna Poche volte nella mia vita ho provato una paura fulminante come quella vissuta nella scena jumpscare del licantropo sotto le coperte (ultimi minuti dell'adattamento televisivo).Accantonati un attimo i ricordi, questo volumetto si difende bene grazie all'ambientazione indovinata nonché la sottile inquietudine che serpeggia nel lettore quando si sconfina nei terrori della licantropia e affini.Prevedibile e simpatico il finale.
I remember why I loved Stine in my childhood <3
Está bien, sin más. Se nota que va dirigido a un público muy específico y estoy segura que de haberlo leído con 12 años me hubiera gustado más. Me sabe mal darle sólo dos estrellas... pero es que no me ha transmitido nada.
Bueno, es entretenido. Supongo que si lo hubiera leído de niña me habría dado miedo.
It wasn't very good. I'd skip it if I were you.
It's a fun, short spooky story.There's a lot of buildup with some weird stuff going on, and then everything happens very quickly, and it ends. The chapters are very short, about two pages, and all those little cliffhangers kind of got silly. Still, it's a decent MG book.
Yang diingat dari pengalaman baca Goosebumps dulu hanyalah 'seru' dan 'menegangkan'. Sekarang baru paham tentang jalinan cerita dan kalimatnya. Bagus juga untuk ukuran bacaan anak-anak. Ya iyalah, dulu juga suka kan bacanya?! :p
CAN SOMEONE PLZ EXPLAIN HOW IT TOOK ME FOUR MONTHS TO FINISH A 100 PAGE BOOK???
even jeugdsentiment herbeleven
Ah, Goosebumps. These never get old! Fever Swamp is a strange place full of weird sounds and even weirder incidences. When Grady's dog is blamed he tries to find the real culprit behind the attacks.
They think it might be a werewolf but Grady's dad does not believe so.
In the end Grady finds out that Will was actually the werewolf and the big dog Wolf saved Grady's life when he was about to be attacked by Will.I think this story is a classic.
I like how I was lead to believe that the old hermit was probably the werewolf until near the end of the book when I found out that Will was the werewolf and the creepy old hermit was actually a good person.
I didn't like the old hermit, in part because the book made him seem untrustworthy.
Reading a book from the series now has been a fun nostalgic experience.
The only comment I have to make is about Brady's snake bite.
In this book the main character is bitten by a green snake.
Venomous snakes break skin in two wounds from their fangs.Lastly, green snakes can certainly be venomous.C'mon, so called scientists.Those trivial qualms aside, this series contains a lot of fun, quick reads that bring me back to my childhood.
I recently just read the book Goosebumps: The Werewolf of Fever Swamp by R.L. Stine.
I thought the book was great because there is tons of suspense in this book that will grab you instantly and will refuse to let go.
Throughout most of the book the characters (Grady,Will,and Cassie) are trying to figure out the strange phenomenon that is going on in the swamp.
There two main suspects are the stray dog that wanders through the swamp, and the strange hermit that lives right behind the swamp.
The book mostly took place in Fever Swamp.
I would give this book 5 stars and would recommend this book to anyone.
Μια αρκετά κλασσική προσέγγιση του μύθου των Λυκανθρώπων που νομίζω πως φανερώνει έναν κάποιο σεβασμό απέναντι στο "αυθεντικό". Μια ιστορία διατυπωμένη με το απαιτούμε νεύρο και ένταση προκειμένου να διατηρήσει την αγωνία μας στα ύψη.
this one was a pretty good book!!! ussally i love all of r l stines books!!!! you should read it!!!
Better than some of the other ones. At least by a little bit.
After some discussion, the parents decide that a dog would be fine to let into their house.Will shows up to go investigate the swamp with Grady, and suggests to the family that the dog might be part-wolf.
Grady's father tells him that was dumb, because the dog is bound to come back, and when it does, he is going to take it to be killed.Wolf manages to stay out of sight all day and it isn't until late that night that Grady spots him from his bedroom window, lingering at the swamp clearing.
Judul : Goosebumps (Manusia Serigala Rawa Demam)Pengarang : R.L. StinePenerbit : PT Gramedia Pustaka UtamaTahun Terbit : Cetakan ke-5, Agustus 2015Sinopsis :KALA BULAN PURNAMA TIBA…Sesuatu yang mengerikan terjadi di Rawa Demam.
Semua mengira biang keladinya adalah anjing baru Grady, yang memang mirip serigala dan kelihatannya agak liar.
Atau berubah menjadi makhluk mengerikan di kala bulan purnama.
Ilustrator itu memang pertama kali menyedot perhatian saya lewat sampul “Sihir Perempuan” karya Intan Paramaditha.
Selamat Datang di Zona AdrenalinBuku ini membuat saya berpikir ada dua bentuk Goosebumps (sialnya saya baru memikirkan ini setelah bertahun-tahun menikmati buku serinya), yaitu ada buku yang berfokus pada adrenalin dan buku tentang misteri.
Let's just say I didn't follow this one at all. The game I was playing while I was listening was much too intense, and I drifted off to focus on the game rather than the audio. All I know is that I love (view spoiler)[that Wolf saved him, (hide spoiler)] and I had no idea who (view spoiler)[Will was. (hide spoiler)] I get the feeling that these books always end badly XD (view spoiler)[Him becoming the werewolf after he was bitten. (hide spoiler)] Oops XD
