https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/35959740-circe
ARC provided by the publisher via Netgalley in exchange for an honest review.✨ Signed and personalized copies are available through Main Point Books! (They can ship anywhere in the US, anywhere in the UK, and also to some other international locations)  “When I was born, the name for what I was did not exist.”  This is the pièce de résistance I’ve been searching for my entire life. Not only did I fall in love with this story, I predict that this will be the best book I’ll read all year. This boo
Not only did I fall in love with this story, I predict that this will be the best book I’ll read all year.
So, when I found out that that Greek mythology retelling queen, Madeline Miller, was writing a book centered around Circe, I knew it was going to end up being one of my favorite books of all time.
This book just feels so authentic, I felt like I was in the ocean, on the island, and traveling right beside Circe throughout.
This book is also so beautifully feminist that it makes me weep just thinking about the things Circe had to endure.
“Witches are not so delicate,” I said. I absolutely loved this. If you enjoy Greek mythology, complex heroines, and a generous serving of adventure, bloodshed, betrayal, magic, and monsters - both literal and figurative - then hell, READ THIS BOOK.To be honest, I wasn't a huge fan of Miller's The Song of Achilles when I read it a few years back. I'm not sure if that's because my tastes were different back then, or if it was just because the plot had more of a romantic focus than Circe. But, wha
If you enjoy Greek mythology, complex heroines, and a generous serving of adventure, bloodshed, betrayal, magic, and monsters - both literal and figurative - then hell, READ THIS BOOK.To be honest, I wasn't a huge fan of Miller's The Song of Achilles when I read it a few years back.
I was absolutely captivated from start to finish.Circe is part beautifully-written literary fantasy and part divine Greek soap opera.
In the end, Circe might be full of fantasy, backstabbing and murder, but it is first and foremost the story of one woman's life - through pain, love, desire, heartache and motherhood.
You live with ancient queens of myth and you're so much a part of each other it was like a second soul inside your skin.
You call birds to sing at your windows, fall asleep in patches of magical herbs with hair dripping all around you like a shawl and sit by the hearth with a lioness, cheeks glowing with the flames' light.
You live into 300 years, and in the space where legends and fairytales are gathering up words, your names are amongst them.Because same.
Spellbinding.
Hello, my name is Ana and I am a Greek mythology addict.   A brief introduction to the deities of Greek mythology. Zeus (Thunder God, king of the Gods)Hera (Queen of Olympus, Goddess of marriage) Demeter (Goddess of the harvest, agriculture and fertility) Poseidon (God of the Sea) Hestia (Virgin goddess of the hearth)Hades (God of the Underworld, riches, king of the dead)Persephone/Kora (Goddess of Spring, Queen of the Underworld)Athena (Virgin Goddess of wisdom, craft, and war; companion of her
I have this thing about long-dead heroes from Greek mythology.
She becomes one with nature and finds company with lions and wolves.
And despite the huge number of famous characters here, none of it felt forced: it all slotted perfectly into Circe’s life.
There are so many myths that intertwine with Circe, like the story of the Minotaur and the fall of Icarus, though despite the famous nature of many of them they don’t for a second overshadow her.
And this is a book about her finding the most ultimate form of freedom.
Absolutely beautiful!
You threw me to the crows, but it turns out I prefer them to you. My words are not as good as the ones in this book. Circe is a book about... finding yourself. But god,  it stands out so far from just that.  Okay, to get started, I’m just going to say it:  Madeline Miller is one of the best writers of our time.  She has such a way with words that it is absolutely impossible not to be engaged in her storytelling. The thing that brings this whole novel together is  Circe’s character.  She is a wo
Madeline Miller does such an amazing job developing this character, weaving her thoughts into the narrative without manipulating you into feeling a certain way, keeping the narrative wide yet keeping it focused around Circe.
Throughout this novel I developed such a deep level of admiration for both this author and this character, 
There’s something supremely excellent about seeing a character like this who is essentially a plot device be given a story.
I absolutely love giving characters who have been given no agency the agency they deserve.
a morally-grey-character-driven retelling revolving around agency is basically my entire what-I-like bio.
When I was born, the name for what I was did not exist. Where do I even begin? This was one of the most amazing, beautiful, intricate, captivating books I have had the pleasure of reading in my entire life. I have been a bookworm since I was barely walking, and yet this book, this gorgeous retelling, has impacted me so profoundly that I genuinely do not know if I will ever be entirely the same.  It is a common saying that women are delicate creatures—flowers, eggs, anything that may be crushed
Of course, Circe’s exile on the isle of Aiaia is bound to be an unhappy story, and that’s a common thread throughout Circe: you always know something miserable or painful is on its way, but the moments in between those travesties, and the ways Circe handles the hand of cards life has dealt her, makes it so incredibly worth the ache.
Perhaps the greatest thing about watching her struggle is how much relatability it lends to her character; despite being a goddess, an immortal, and a witch, Circe at her core is a spurned woman who has lived too long under the heels of spiteful, power-hungry men, and a wicked society that values beauty over strength.
And I am sure that there are many who had started the transformation long before landing on her island.Whaddya call the large sty Circe filled with erstwhile men?
But it is from Homer that we get the primary association we have with her name, the magical transmutation of men into pigs.George Romney's 1782 portrait of Emma Hamilton as Circe - image from wikipediaWe follow the life of our Ur-witch from birth to whatever.
If you like mythology, you need to read this book!Personally it's not even something I'm a fan of but I couldn't put this... audiobook down. The narrator did a great job and her voice was quite relaxing. I ended up finishing the book in 3 days and taking detour on my walks just to be able to listen to it more!Would recommend.Now I need to go finish The Song of Achilles...
3.5 stars Madeline Miller’s Circe is an epic that’s sweeping the nation today. Everywhere you turn, you see that magnificent cover (honestly, that cover work is DIVINE and I’ve had the MOST fun photographing it for the Bookstagram). Twitter and Instagram are as we speak packed with Circe references and Miller interviews and, within all of that, Circe has found itself wrapped in all of the fluff and buildup and publicity of a typical ultra-hyped, big-named publisher release. Let’s be serious—mos
Twitter and Instagram are as we speak packed with Circe references and Miller interviews and, within all of that, Circe has found itself wrapped in all of the fluff and buildup and publicity of a typical ultra-hyped, big-named publisher release.
But, in the end, I couldn’t ride the Circe wave all the way through.Let’s get one thing clear from the very start: Madeline Miller’s follow up to The Song of Achilles is an epic in the years spanned but not necessarily in the execution.
To me, it read far more like a long story than an “epic.” When I think of that four-lettered word, I think of a novel that’s monumental and moving.
”It was true what Hermes said. Every moment mortals died, by shipwreck and sword, by wild beasts and wild men, by illness, neglect, and age. It was their fate, as Prometheus had told me, the story that they all shared. No matter how vivid they were in life, no matter how brilliant, no matter the wonders they made, they came to dust and smoke. Meanwhile every petty and useless god would go on sucking down the bright air until the stars went dark.” Sculpture by Nicolas-Sébastien Adam in the Louvre
She was lonely and made more lonely by the fact that no God would marry her, and mortals were simply not good enough for the daughter of Helios.
After growing up with Gods whose skin, despite what hazards are encountered, remained unblemished, those scars on mortals were fascinating to her because they told the story of their lives in every livid slash and puncture.
for $27 this book better clear my skin, water my crops, and eliminate all the stress i have ever hadbuddy read with yusra!
*Spoilers*How I wish Miller's Circe was a reimagining as opposed to a retelling and I say this because there's little else that can be told about Greek mythology that isn't readily available online or at the library.
But, I digress.If Miller's ultimate goal for this book is to introduce Greek mythology to a new generation of readers, then, I think she succeeded.
The end.All in all, I think if you're new to mythology then this is for you; but even then I'd recommend reading Greek Mythology: A Captivating Guide to the Ancient Gods, Goddesses, Heroes, and Monsters instead.
I thought this book was fantastic! I felt sorry for Circe. But I did love reading about all of the gods and just the story line itself! This was the first book I have read by this author and it was a pleasant surprise. And that's all I have, there is no point in writing big reviews. You can read all of the book bumpers that have a million likes that write long reviews. I just can't do it any more. Happy Reading! Mel
Rating: 4.5 stars
Blog | Facebook | Twitter | Tumblr | Instagram | Pinterest |  WHEN I WAS BORN, the name for what I was did not exist.
I was waiting for two whole months to get this book from the library.
And I finally had a chance to read Circe from Madeline Miller.
A book that everyone was talking about.
The only thing you were gonna see on Instagram.
Well, here I am – sitting with the cool kids now, I have read this book.The reason I wanted to read this book wasn’t because I wanted to be part of the cool kid
I also hardly believe that this book will change the thoughts of many people, the way they see things, the way they live, the way they think.It was one of my favorite things about him: how he always fought for his chance.There are a lot of side characters that give their own meaning to the story as well, and there is also Odysseus, and at times it feels as this is his story, but in the end you realised that this story belongs to Circe only!
If I have not been active on here – at all, really – it’s because I started my second year of university and also because I didn’t want to be reading anything other than CIRCE (and my textbooks, ugh).I thought THE SONG OF ACHILLES was amazing, but it’s nothing compared to this story.
I didn’t even know who Circe was prior to reading this book or that such a woman even existed.
Circe is a nymph.
The more time Circe spends in the company of humans, the more she learns.
It is with immense regret and massive trepidation that I must say...I don't really get the hype.review to come:(----------currently-reading updatesme: ok time to write an essay!this traitor book: or - and here me out on this one - you could not do that and read insteadme: hm...compelling
(c)Q:Divine days fall like water from a cataract, and I had not learned yet the mortal trick of counting them.
For before I could say the thousand humiliating things in my heart, all the proofs of passion I had hoarded, the crawling devotions I would do, I felt his power come around me.
Great gods smell fear like sharks smell blood, and they will devour you for it just the same.
(c)Q:“Do you know the name of this island?” I said.“I would be a poor god of travelers if I did not know all the places in the world.” (c)Q:His eyes shone like dark gems held to light.
Furthermore, I have found a favorite witch in Circe to extol along with my best-loved sorcerer of all-time – Mary Stewart’s Merlin!Prior to reading this, I was not well-versed in mythology.
Circe has enriched my thoughts on love, companionship, hard work, motherhood, and what it means to be mortal versus immortal.
This is a book I would love to give to my own daughter to read one day, as well as one that I will keep on my favorites shelf at home.
If you have given any thought to reading this book, now is the time!
Anticipate this book folks and rush out and get yourself a copy when it becomes available (or request it on NetGalley as I did!).Circe is the daughter of Helios, the god of the sun and mightiest of the Titans.
Circe does not appear to have any powers but nevertheless, she is a God and lives in her father's home until she angers Zeus by transforming a nymph into a monster and a man into a creature.
She is caught between the world of the Gods and that of mankind.On her island, she learns the land, befriends the animals and assists sailors - turning some into pigs if they cross her or attempt to harm her.
in the house of miller, goddess of written word and mightiest of storytellers, a masterpiece was born. again, i am blown away at the beauty that is madeline millers writing. her words have a way of invoking a sense of delicate peace in my heart. i read her stories and it fills that longing for something more. circe was an absolute delight from start to finish, and i cant express the extent of my gratitude for something so breathtakingly compelling to have been created and shared with the world. 
  5 stars
Ish.Mostly, though, I've always thought of her as a character who was out to get Wonder Woman.I'm admitting to that so that you know right off the bat that you're not dealing with someone who has an educated opinion on Miller's retelling.And maybe because of my non-classical Circe introduction, I wasn't as blown away by this as everyone else.
And, you know, while I always find it fun to read about girls like that, I still kinda wanted to see her zap Amazons.
This book is glorious. Absolutely magnificent.
Along the years of her exile she encounters Gods, monsters and other mortals.
We watch as she lives a life of isolation, has lovers and watch as her actions are driven by her emotions and love for others.Circe was such a wonderful character.
I loved this retelling of Circe from her point of view.
Madeline Miller has created a voice for a character that is briefly mentioned in the Odyssey (by Homer) and other texts, which are mainly told from a male point of view.
Miller has explored the character of Circe and has given a powerful narrative- which is so refreshing!
I knew then that I wanted to hear that voice again.As legend has it, Circe, due to her wilful ways, is banished by her father Helios ( Titan god of the sun) and confined by his will to the island of Aiaia.
Madeline Miller not only held me captive but had me thirsting for more knowledge of the Olympian gods and Titans alike, not to mention the mortals, those Greek heroes, and their many monsters like Scylla and Charybdis.
How else will I ever slake this thirst?Oh and yes, Madeline, I most assuredly do want to hear your voice again.
Beneath the smooth, familiar face of things is another that waits to tear the world in two.”In fact, I soon learned the hard way that no matter how well you think you know her and her writing, you are never prepared for what Madeline Miller's pen is going to deliver.
This because the key word, where her work is concerned, is “different”: therefore, o future readers, come now to terms with the fact that a story Madeline Miller has woven will be different from what you expect, from what you think you know, and also (maybe I should say especially) from the original sources she draws from, and said distance is most likely its very raison d'être.
Circe is despised and bullied by stronger members of her family, and eventually - and rather unfairly - exiled to the island of Aiaia for dabbling in pharmaka, a forbidden type of magic using herbs and other plants.
On Aiaia, Circe determinedly works on further developing her pharmaka skills, along with strength of character and will.Spanning hundreds of years - Circe being immortal and all - it's an epic, somewhat episodic story.
Odysseus, Penelope and their son Telemachus are unforgettable characters, along with Circe herself.Full review to come ...
but it was worth paying the overdue fines for this read!
