https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/564325.Last_and_First_Men_Star_Maker
This review is only for Last and First Men as I have not yet read Star Maker.
Last and First Men4.0 stars.
The reason that the book, for all its amazing inventiveness, does not get 5 stars is because the narrative, at times, can be very, very dry.
The detailed descriptions of each successive species of humanity and the trials and tribulations that befall them can become a bit tedious.
However, despite that crticism, this is a book that I strongly recommend to all fans of science fiction as many of the ideas and concepts found in modern science fiction found their first true expression in this amazing futrue history.
The first novel is a truly long-term history of humanity, on the scale of millions of years, as imagined by a British philosopher between the world wars. In the far future, humanity splits into several species, not all of them intelligent. The second novel goes farther: a true Universe-wide, billion-year view of the evolution of intelligence similar to the H. G. Wells's story "Under the Knife". It is reading such old science fiction that makes one appreciate the effort expended by physicists and astronomers since it was written on constructing modern cosmology.
"Star Maker" involves a 20th century character making a mental journey that informs him about other non-human sentient species and the evolution in the far future of a universe spanning consciousness composed of such species working together to seek spiritual enlightenment.
A pan-sentient, galaxy spanning "community of worlds" is depicted that enjoys a spiritual maturity far beyond the majority of galactic organizations delineated in modern science fiction.
"Last and First Men" and "Star Maker" are truly breathtaking works, even more amazing since they were written in the 1930's.
I just couldn't get through this book. maybe one day I'll try again...
What impressed me at this moment about this passage was that I have within the past week heard the idea presented not as SF but as a serious scientific concept.The narrative is structured in a way such that the focus of the narrator takes in larger and larger areas of the galaxy and vaster periods of time.
The final sections are written as a kind of religious vision where the narrator encounters, to the slight extent that seems to be all that is possible for a human consciousness, the titular Start Maker, a creator of cosmoses who, as far as I can see, is indistinguishable from God. Stapledon’s is not a book to be read quickly.
STAR MAKER and LAST AND FIRST MEN are both key works, perhaps the most mind-blowing novels I've ever read. No other books I know of convey such a gripping sense of the epically vast possibilities in an infinite universe and uncounted billions of years.
There's really nothing else quite like this book.
I was about to become an apologist for him but it turns into a sharp satire on poor race relations.But when time starts telescoping and again and again he strikes these magisterial notes as man is reduced to microscopic insignificance and we're just tremors in the opening bars of the music...
I would imagine those chapters that didn't remind me of anything have simply inspired books I haven't read yet.Star MakerVery clever writing.
There's so much variety and satire and his imagination is just so fertile.The problem for me was the middle section of the book.
One of the first SF books I read. OS was just inducted into the SF Hall of Fame (according to Wikipedia) in 2014. And with good reason. His writing is really like no other. This book is comprised of two stories (novellas?). The first one was my favorite. Last and First Men basically takes the reader on the journey through 18 different speciations (evolutions?) of humanity from the current time to about 2 billion years in the future. He wrote the story in 1930. An amazing story that needs to be read to be understood and appreciated.
Both works go well together as a set as Last and First Men is Earthcentric while Star Maker focuses on the rest of the galaxy with allusions to Earth and things that happened in Last and First Men along the way.Expansive hardly begins to describe the timeline this work tackles.
Comparing Stapledon's timeline of human and alien evolution to how things have changed with the use of computers, smart phones, airplanes, etc.
Some of the things he predicts have certainly come to fruition in one way or another and often much faster than he predicted.
The attempt to explore various philosophies through the evolution of man shows promise, and Stapledon covers some great ideas that show up again in later sci-fi.
There are only a handful of characters in the entire book and they aren't given names or more than a page or two of existence.
The book strikes me as the work an author might do in evolving a sci-fi setting and then collapse into a few pages of exposition.
A much better canvas for Stapledon's many excellent ideas.
Have to agree with all of your comments. I first read this when I was younger and it did blow my mind. The range over time and the scope of the work is enormous. The imaginative focus on man's possibility through the universe and beyond is something enthralling and spectacular. I would have every child in Primary school read this work for its prospect of what is possible for human kind.But it is both pessimistic as well as hopeful and some of the "forecasts" for various Empires and people are quite dire. So not a book for the Hollywood film-makers!!!!!!!!
Any writer who contributed an idea to Freeman Dyson ought to be considered in discussions of important (or "great") science fiction, yet I find that Olaf Stapledon is frequently omitted from American lists of that kind, just as Stanislaw Lem is.Assuming the SFE entry on Stapledon to be correct, Last and First Men covers a timescale of two billion years and Star Maker ranges across 100 billion.
The SFE entry linked above gives a fine critical overview of all of Stapledon's work and explains my remark about Dyson.
Completely separate from the pulp sf tradition, yet a tremendous influence upon it, the five novels of the philosopher Olaf Stapledon were a fictional popularisation of his ideas about the unimportance of the individual except through fulfilment in community life.
Two of them First and Last Men and Star Maker adopt vast historical perspectives to show the entire history of our humanity and its greatly altered descendants and of the whole history of intelligent life in the galaxy; their sense of scale, and their demonstration of a tragic view of life worked out across aeons, have affected much subsequent space opera--they are also prodigal with insights and story ideas.
They remain two of my favorite classics from my teen years of science fiction reading.
Having read The Last and First Men and finding that Star Maker was basically more of the same, I ended up stopping half-way through.
The scope of these novels is large, no doubt, but that doesn't make them all that enjoyable to read.
When the science is about as soft as soft gets and the narrative gives you next to no reason to give a shit, the reading just becomes a chore.
Further, the ending of TLAFM was nothing but new-age one-mind universal consciousness bullshit.
Although both books are not what I'd call "novels", of the two, Last and First Men is a more difficult read in that it's more a detailed timeline of humankind's future than anything, and the initial decades of "the future" start from Stapledon's time of writing in the 1930s, and most of his prognostications didn't come to pass.
It doesn't help the potential for verisimilitude of the remainder of the timeline.
Four stars for Star Maker, three for Last and First Men, now go read Sirius, which is still by far my favorite of Stapledon's works.
Haven't been able to finish it. Maybe I will some day, but ten minutes of this book is better than any sleeping pill. It's crammed with interesting ideas and settings, but without characters and real-time scenes it's pretty hard to get more than mildly interested. Reading this book is like reading the Wikipedia synopses of eight hundred movies in a row. Or like reading a history textbook, which I suppose was the intention. My attention span is just a little too 21st century for this. If that makes me a philistine, so be it.
I read these back-to-back oh... ten years ago maybe. I keep meaning to go back to them. I remember feeling that they were awfully similar, and that maybe taking a break between them would have been a better idea. I'm still haunted by a couple phases in the evolution of humans, and the opening of one of them, in the early night, overlooking a rural human landscape is very effective.
Read Star Maker yet again. I used it as source material for a Creating Realistic Animal Characters workshop at Anthrocon 2010. Written in the 1930's-1940's and still mind-blazingly brilliant. I have lost count of all the times I have pored over this book. Stapledon's novel Sirius: A Tale of Love and Discord, was a direct inspiration for my Ratha prehistoric cat series.
Interesting with an older more formal and florid writing style that took me a while to get used to and philosophical beliefs ideas that are in some ways rather disturbing or uncomfortable and in other ways amusingly archaic for a 21st century reader. Can't say I liked it on an emotional level but I can see why it is referred to as a classic.
Read this in college as part of a History of Science course. Two novels, in the old-school sci-fi tradition, that consider (in genuine sincerity) the future evolution of mankind, throughout the next several thousand generations. An epic, speculative, brilliant and confusing work.
Two incredible science fiction epics under one volume. You can't go wrong. Unless of course you are looking for action-adventure. These read like profound philosophical treatises. But they are mind-blowing.
Just beginning these books.
These two novels are both dated, but their scope of imagination remains amazing.
Beautiful, visionary, exciting, deep philosophical/anthropological science fiction. It changes the way you think about yourself and the human race.
Bith,the best sci fi novels I ever read,Deep, mind-blowing
Slow and plodding. High literature may it be, but over my head it is.
Although having great respect for the author, his politics and some of his fiction, I found these two ambitious books as unreadable as a timeline or chronological list.
eh?
Finished 'Last and First Men'. I'll post thoughts when I go back and read 'Star Maker'.
