https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/690866.The_Hundred_Secret_Senses
The Hundred Secret Senses is now one of my favorite Amy Tan novels, rivaled only by The Bonesetter's Daughter.
Yes, I love The Joy Luck Club, The Kitchen God's Wife and Saving Fish From Drowning - I love any Tan story I come across - but The Hundred Secret Senses (along with TBD) really stand out.
When her father is on his deathbed, he reveals to his wife that he left behind a daughter in China, and asks her to retrieve the daughter.
Tan plumbs the depths of issues like life and death, reincarnation, history, soul ties, relationships and culture in this story, and I ate it up.
It's like she's saying, "This stuff might be good enough for you Chinese people, but you guys are crazy!" I understand that she learns from her China trip, and she grows out of her shell, but I feel like she should have known anyway.
After all, she's been hearing Kwan's stories of China almost all her life.
You think she would have learned by now that they don't have much to American standards.
I don't think she stops once to think outside herself, what it must have been like for Kwan when she lived there, or what it must be like for her family that still lived there.But getting over that fact, the story really is quite marvelous.
انا بس عايز اقول ان الروايات اللي بتدمج بين الثقافات وبتكشف لنا السحر المخفي بينهم بتكون حلوة جدا، وفي الرواية دي بتقع بين عبق المجتمع الصيني بقدمه وطقوسه، وبين المجتمع الأمريكي بحداثته وانفتاحه لتنتج لنا رواية جميلة بتكشف لنا حياة ثرية خصبة.الرواية جميلة، عميقة، ممتعة، تبعث شجون عديدة في النفس.
I would have given this five stars but for a few things that annoyed me. Simon's sterility didn't ring true and Kwan's constant good humor was a bit grating.Otherwise very, very entertaining!
It becomes the mainstay of all her books.Five-year-old American-born, Olivia Lee suddenly meets her Chinese half sister, K wan Li, from the Chanmian village in the Thistle mountains, China.
A love-hate relationship develops over a period of thirty years, with K wan, who calls a spade a spade in any situation, including Olivia's separation from her husband, Simon.
I have never read a book of Amy Tan in which I did not feel like family in the end.
During the marriage-matching festivals, these boys would climb up to our high villages and our girls would sing the old mountain songs that we had brought from the north a thousand years before.
My recent trip to Las Vegas was no exception, since at the last minute, I pulled down Amy Tan's The Hundred Secret Senses - the Kindle version - and dived into it as soon as I could turn my electronic devices back on.The book starts, "My sister Kwan believes she has yin eyes.
And yet, against her will, over decades of listening to her sister, Olivia has learned the stories, internalized them, and become haunted by some of them herself, as well as taking on a few new ones.The ghosts are the reason Kwan is so desperate to patch Olivia's failed marriage back together.
Ahh, the joys of being a naïve teenager.Anyhoo, The Hundred Secret Senses is told from the POV of a half-Chinese American woman named Olivia, who lives in CA, is estranged from her husband, has very little appreciation for her older half sister from China, and goes on a trip with the two of them back to her sister’s hometown of Changmian.I overly simplified the book, but basically it’s a story about a woman at a crossroads in her life who is teeming on the edge of bitterness and ingratitude, but is also in self denial about this.
It's the same basic Amy Tan plot.
The details have changed, but the essence of the story is exactly the same as every other Tan book I've read.
I've read most of Tan's novels and have realized that she has a template.
She found a formula that worked in The Joy Luck Club and hasn't really changed it since then.1.
As a result, she doesn't communicate well with others.
This inability to communicate affects all of her relationships.
Tan found what worked for her readers and hasn't grown as a writer or storyteller.
What I like about it is how sweet Kwan is, but in just about All the Books there is a straight as in serious character who refuses to believe in ghosty things.Which is a bit irritating when you have proof such things exist.Best thing about this book is the concept that these people cared for each other so much they kept being born again just to be with these folks.
it's a nice way to look at death, really.
It was nice how Olivia learned to be more open minded.
And that love isn't perfect or without problems.
It really is a sweet book.
Lovely story :) Not as mindblowing as The Bonesetter's Daughter, but good enough for me to stay up into the wee hours just to finish devouring this book.
The story started out slow and took longer than I liked to reach the climax and there are still a few unanswered questions that I would have preferred answered, like what was Olivia's father's real name.
But I guess in the big scheme of things, these little questions are inconsequential and would have distracted from the main plot.
What won me over was Olivia finally accepting her sister and her loyalty and Kwan never coming back, was tragic for me.
The main character, Olivia, has an older half sister, Kwan, come live with the family after spending her formative years in China.
Kwan keeps Olivia up at night relating stories of ghosts and China.
It really bored me with details at first, but then Tan upped the pace considerably once the 2 of them go to China together along with Olivia's estranged husband.
Kwan is truly a sweetie and loveable, whereas Olivia often acts like a spoiled brat when dealing with her husband and within the sister relationship.
Amy Tan's novels are really special in many ways. For me reading "Joy luck club" was a comfortable means of sinking in Chinese culture, bound with familiar American environment, something to hold to, like bungee jumping, you sunk into unknown depth but still know that the rope will return you back in proper time.  "The Hundred Secret Senses" seemed to me less americanized than the first Tan's novel.  Every single step of characters here seems to be linked to Chinese legends, beliefs and traditio
For me reading "Joy luck club" was a comfortable means of sinking in Chinese culture, bound with familiar American environment, something to hold to, like bungee jumping, you sunk into unknown depth but still know that the rope will return you back in proper time.
The stories narrated by Kwan really seem mad at first but then as you read on you begin to understand the inner sense of them and what is more important, the connection to the main characters of the novel.
Takie 3,5Książka ma momenty przepiękne, autorka wspaniale opisuje podróż do Chin, w sposób tak plastyczny, że mam ochotę w tym momencie spakować się i jechać.
Niestety nie polubiłam głównej bohaterki, co utrudniało czytanie mocno.
Drugi zarzut to historia opowiadana przez Kwan, w którą totalnie nie potrafiłam się wczuć i z westchnieniem witałam każdy akapit, w którym następował powrót do opowiadanej historii.
Nie wiem, po przeczytaniu całość podoba mi się bardzo, ale czytanie nie było łatwe i dopiero po dobrej połowie książki tak naprawdę się wciągnęłam.Wdaje mi się też, że polskie tłumaczenie mocno niestety kuleje, bo czasem oczy bolały ;-)
When Olivia is six, her adult half-sister, Kwan, is brought to live with her family in San Francisco.Kwan is a bit quirky.
Most of Kwan's visions of the dead are dismissed as crazy, until Kwan's stories begin to captivate Olivia.
Kwan, a very capable storyteller, draws Olivia into her world and she begins to give into the tales of ghosts and past lives.​The Hundred Secret Senses failed to grab my attention.
Half of the novel is comprised of Kwan's ghost stories and the other half is Olivia's rocky relationship with her husband Simon.
In high school I had a friend with exquisite indie musical taste who was a closeted Cheryl Crow fan. Another friend confronted him and he had to come clean. Amy Tan is kind of my Cheryl Crow. Her accessibility might blind some highbrow readers to the great wit and wisdom in her writing. And I love how she moves narratively between the physical and spiritual worlds as if the line between the two is irrelevant.
of course i remember reading it long time ago in my late twenties. Refreshing plot and interesting way of depicting cross culture of China and the new generation. The sister with Yin eyes is very convincingly written. Amy's style in all of her books i strongly believed has injected inspirations to many when writing about anything with Chinese in mind. Those dos and don;ts...worth reading!!!
أحب كوان، أشباحها وأصدقاءها الميتين، ذكرياتها وحيواتها السابقة، إيمانها العميق بذاكرتها وإحساسها، وحبها اللا محدود. أحب قراءة الأساطير، الخرافات الشعبية، الثقافات القديمة وكل ما حولها، وآمي تان هنا صاغتهم بذكاء في روايتها. الحب في الرواية بين سيمون وأوليفيا كان الشيء العاديّ والمبتذل نوعًا ما -الوحيد- مقابل سحر باقي حكايات الرواية. استمتعت بها كثيرا. فيه شيء مفقود مع الترجمة، أسلوب كوان في الكلام، ركاكة انجليزيتها مقابل طلاقتها بلغتها، أظنه كان ساحر أكثر باللغة الأصل اللي انكتب بها العمل. ولكنه لا يزال ممتع، ولا تزال شخصيتها الأفضل في الرواية.
for the short spates of time I felt any emotion towards Tan's half-baked characters at all.The supernatural elements of the story were a good concept, but failed miserably in practice.
Maye she deliberately wrote the first half of the novel with thinly-veiled unenthusiasm, creating two-dimensional characters with little to endear them to the reader so that one would be forced to "look deeper" and see the real emotion underneath the uninspiring written words.
Another wonderful Amy Tan novel. She does a great job weaving together characters from different generations or ages and their cultural experiences. I really liked in this one how she reaches back into time to the Taiping Rebellion to draw connections to her modern day characters.
Beautifully profound and amazing, soulful writing. I cannot vocalize my thoughts on this without giving away spoilers. But oh, talk about reading something at the right time! This is a dedication to sisterhood, to friendships, to loyalty, to love of all varieties. I would be raving about this wonderful book for a long time to come!
A very well-meaning medium who can't stay out of anybody's business, and doesn't even care when people call her names and shun her for being weird.Olivia finds herself with a failing marriage, her 17yo relationship with Simon always meddled with the ghost of his first love.
(And so of course I loved Olivia, because she reminds me of the type of person we hate because she says what we all are thinking but don't have the balls to say.) On the other extreme, we have Kwan, who speaks in broken English.
Still, you'll notice I gave it four stars - because until the end, I really did love this book, from Olivia's epic cynicism to Kwan's witty stories.
Olivia was dumbfounded when she met learned that her half sister, Kwan, was kind of weird.
Kwan was older than her but Olivia felt like she was going to be the bigger sister in the family.
And she often talked about her past life.
When Olivia's own marriage was on the rocks, Kwan made a move to help her sister out.
I got this book 4 years ago from work.
I've always loved Amy Tan's books, one of my favorites from her is the Joy Luck Club.
But for now, The Hundred Secret Senses is my favorite Amy Tan novel.
The main protagonist/narrator of this book is a jerk.
I don't understand for a moment why it takes almost losing her husband and actually losing her sister for her to stop being a jerk for more than 10 minutes, but it does.
I expect everyone to have figured out how to be compassionate or at least somewhat emotionally intelligent by the time they've reached their mid-30s...which doesn't seem like too much to ask, does it?The secondary protagonist, the main character's sister, was delightful.
It's a simple narrative trick of the author, but very illustrative that when she switches from narrating in somewhat broken english to chinese, her language becomes deeper, richer, occasionally even rather poetic.
What an odd book.
I'm still not entirely sure what this book was about, nor what I'm supposed to believe about it, but it was very human and intense.
There was something, underneath all the talk of ghosts and past lives, very believable about this story...like something you know is there even though you can't really see it.
I'm not sure how to classify this story.
It's only paranormal if there really were ghosts and past lives in it, and then only if those things don't really exist.
It's a love story, but not a romance.
This book is a huge favorite of mine. I've read it a couple of times and I don't re-read books very often! I just loved Kwan. Amy Tan's dialogue for her is so rich and real, I could hear Kwan's voice in my head!The whole past-life/reincarnation storyline was fascinating. When I started to put it all together it was a HOLY SHIT moment - then I couldn't put the book down. Just as good, in a different way, as Joy Luck Club.I would LOVE this to be a movie, but Amy Tan's book-to-movie record has been rather sketchy.
La entrañable, pero a la vez creíble historia de dos hermanas que se encuentran en Estados Unidos, y que terminan viajando a China, a sus orígenes.Me parece una historia muy fraternal, pero a la vez realista, lleno de los toques ácidos de esta escritora que hacen verosímil la trama.
The Hundred Secret Senses is one of those novels that is hard to describe, but infinitely readable.
Olivia is half-Chinese, raised by her Midwestern mother after her Chinese father passes away.
Her older half-sister, Kwan, came to live with them when Kwan was 18, brought to America as a way to honor her late father's wishes.
The novel is told from both Olivia's and Kwan's perspectives, although Kwan's is mostly telling the story of a Chinese girl in the 1860s who lived with missionaries in Chiangmian.
The novel is slow in building but pays off with richly developed characters and a story that grabs you in the end.
Haunting and magical. Amy Tan breathes true life into these characters. I felt as though they lived with me for a week as I read this so slowly because I didn't want it to end. I laughed aloud many times, and adored the sisterly bond between Kwan and Olivia. Olivia is such a real character - imperfect, impatient, unhappy; and Kwan is goofy, good-spirited, wonderfully humorous. I loved the bonds between the characters and the realizations and nuggets of wisdom scattered throughout Tan's prose. I didn't want this book to end.
Olivia just wants to live her life as a mostly-American Chinese-American, so she's always resented her half-sister who won't let go of China.
Kwan sees yin (ghosts) and is always interfering.While we learn about their dynamic, Kwan tells us the story of her past life in rural China in 1862.To be honest, for three-quarters of this book, I found it kinda interesting but not great.
So now I'm a little unsure of where I stand.This was a slow-moving book.
I'm often just fine with slow-moving, but I need to feel like I'm heading somewhere and I didn't get that feeling for much of this book.
I rated this book 4/5. I loved it. I enjoyed Amy Tan's The Joy Luck Club and I was right in thinking I would like this book as well. It's very good and really talks about something a lot of families go through: the bonds between sisters from different parents. I understand that some siblings get along and others don't, but simply having only one parent in common is no grounds for that. I am pretty glad I've read this book and I plan to read more of her works when I find them.
