https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/92364.Eye_of_the_Needle
Here are some reasons to read THE EYE OF THE NEEDLE: (1) PRECISION: you like reading about cool, precise heroes or anti-heroes or villains who are painfully precise in their plans, the best at what they do and are totally "stone cold.";(2) WWII BUFF: you love to read about the "big thrills" of WWII; this has it since the German spy discovers D-Day plans and tries to get back to Germany to warn the High Command (i.e. his tap was taken after he was shortly exposed);(3) TAUT THRILLS: if this turns you on, Follet is right up there with Forsythe, Higgins and other masterful spy thriller novelists.;(4) MOVING LOVE/LUST TALES: Follet has always been unusually good at the subplot love stories in his tales; the intimacy level is higher than some people encounter in their real lives; the details of the lovemaking is hot.
Before he started authoring 1,000-page beasts populated with dozens of characters and crammed with historical tidbits, Ken Follett was known for his thrillers, including Eye of the Needle, his breakout hit.
Eye of the Needle is filled with Follett hallmarks: paper-thin characters who exist solely to fulfill plot-derived motivations; dialogue that is mostly expository, but veers towards the excruciating when touching on matters of the heart; and, most important of all, anatomically-precise sex scenes.
Sounds nice!)It’s not giving too much away to tell you that Faber ends up on Storm Island with David and Lucy.
If you like his style, then his other books have even more point-of-view characters that he rotates his narration around.
He just added more characters to prevent telegraphing too many plot points.This spy thriller delivers quite the adventure!
While the plot centers around these true events, the majority of the characters are fictional.
Sure Hitler and Churchill get some face time, but Follett's point is who knows if a spy like Faber really existed.I think what makes this book truly great is the superb use of character.
Each challenge the spy faces, the reader actually wants him to overcome.
Clichéd and predictable: an ultimate disaster. Wasted my precious time on this one.
Eye of the Needle, a sharply-written WWII era thriller, is miles away in style and length from the mammoth, medieval epics Follett would later create. Though not a mindbendingly difficult read, the quality of the writing was already present at this early stage. Extra kudos must be given to any author who can switch gears and dabble in different genres. Working outside your comfortable corner can not be the easiest thing to do.
full review…Again I am truly mesmerized by Ken Follett's imagination his writing style and this absolute gem of a book Eye of the Neddle.
"—Winston Churchill Eye of the Needle became Follett’s first ‘breakthrough’ book, the one that got him accepted in publishing circles, and gave him early fame.
Believe it or not, ‘Eye’ was his eleventh published book, as Follett himself describes “It was my eleventh try”!
Eye of the needle is a spot on, accurately written depiction of WW2 spy thriller at its best!.
Eye of the Needle is an expertly crafted WWII spy thriller, likely the best ever written amongst its genre!
Excellent thriller where the action is happening at the time of the Second World War.
I still found it difficult to work up much sympathy for The Needle, though, and when I found critics (both film and book) talking about his "falling in love" with Lucy, I thought only that they must have a very different idea of love than I have.The stronger character development in Follett's book makes a lot of artistic sense, since, unlike JACKAL, EYE OF THE NEEDLE must build suspense over a period of four years, from the period just after the Phoney War in 1940, to just before D-Day in 1944.
3,5Remonto al final.
In order to accomplish this, the British sets up a ruse to try to fool the Germans into thinking they're going to invade at a different spot, Calais.
Endangering the operation is one brilliant German spy, code named "Die Nadel" (the needle).
If Die Nadel figures out their gambit, and can get that information to Hitler, the invasion will fail and the war will be lost.In one sense, this is a story about the search for one spy.
Other characters include the MI6 guys trying to track down Die Nadel, Godliman (a British professor turned intelligence officer) and Bloggs (a younger MI6 agent).
This is an enthralling wartime (WW2) thriller with a interesting plot contains tension, mystery, surprises and a questionable to be suspenseful ending(maybe not, but you know who won the war and the deception that the Allies executed in order to hide their true intentions of the D-Day landing spot), without it being too convoluted due to its complex historical context.
The narrative focuses on four people - a German spy, a British MI governor, and an English couple - the couple is told through a single POV, but it left me with the feeling that the only fully fleshed character is "the Needle".
A fast paced World War 2 thriller, set against the backdrop of D-Day plans secretly laid by the British.
The story is very engrossing, making it a real turner and a thrilling experience, but I felt that there were a bit too many clichés.
It started off pretty well, but by the end it felt like a Hollywood style spy-flick.
Throughout the reading I expected it to be a 4 star book, but the clichés just pulled it down to 3 stars.
Still, not a bad book at all and a good conventional spy-thriller.
Suddenly both of them 'come to their senses ' when they understand that their relationship means nothing as compared to the immense stakes, the ongoing War as well as the significance of the Secret Faber has now learnt.
For Lucy, it is the fact that Faber now knows the secret, a immense secret that could change the course of the the entire War. Both of them snap out of the brief interlude.
Who knows maybe Faber is really incapable of killing Lucy for while he is growing 'soft' she is growing hardened and ruthless.
My comments about Follett's approach to the actual history in his historical novel "Eye of the Needle" can be found in my author blog ...
http://lewweinsteinauthorblog.com/201...Follett starts with a one page historical preface about the D-Day deception.
However, we are told repeatedly, by Hitler himself, that he will be guided by Faber’s report.read more about how Follett wrote "Eye of the Needle" at my author blog ...
Il primo Ken Follett e, secondo me, il migliore. Rapido, incisivo, appassionante. Appassionato, anche. Ma, soprattutto, genuino nell'invenzione. Prima che la notorietà gli consentisse stuoli di ricercatori, complessità meno fresche e una vaga supponenza.
The whole time I'm reading this book, an Espionage Thriller set in Britain 1940-44 I'm falling in love and pulling for Henry (Heinnrich) Faber, or 'Die Nadel'- the German spy who has information so vital that this individual could literally cost the war.
He has such a strong reputation that the Fuhrer, in the story, personally reads Faber's messages and will trust his information over his own SS commanders.
It was still a good ending, but I have to admit I shook my fist at Mr Follett from across the ocean.
I guess that means the book was pretty good!
Eye of the Needle tells the story of a German master spy ‘The Needle’ and his attempt to uncover the plans of the English army during World War 2 (a few weeks before D-Day).
I also felt the feeling of World War 2 was missed; this book could have been a lot darker and grittier without losing anything in the story.
But then again I’m just a sucker for darker books, so when it's a WWII novel is a little on the light side, I tend to get disappointed.
Há certos livros que podemos ir lendo e desfrutando, mas um deste género deve, para mim, suscitar uma leitura compulsiva, o que não aconteceu.
Há várias perspectivas, a do espião, a dos que o perseguem, a de Lucy, e interessei-me razoavelmente por elas e pelas personagens, mas, sempre que já estava semi-empolgada com uma linha narrativa, era interrompida para acompanharmos outra.
Pode ser aceitável, por vezes, mas não fez nenhum sentido, por exemplo, que o climax da acção fosse suspenso para uma página de soldados a jogar às cartas - nem me lembro se no submarino alemão, se no barco inglês.
In an interview, Ken Follett said this was his first really successful novel (after having written about 10 previous ones that are now forgotten), and he thought the reason of its success was that for the first time he had put a lot of effort in building a great structure.
This is pretty evident while reading this book: the best structure is the one you don't notice, because you are so drawn into the story.
I just had a wonderful time following the adventures of Die Nadel - and often rooting for him.Minor disappointment: the way Follett describes sex ...
Heinrich Faber is Jason Bourne before there was a Jason Bourne.
He is a great ani-hero.
It is more British, meaning there is a methodical story of detail.
within the characters there are a lot of inner emotions.
and the story tends to allow for a lot of complaining.
But the characters are vary engaging, the sense of living in bombed out London and England was awakening, and for the first time in a long time I could be heard to make audible noises of excitement and glee at some of the action parts.
Eye of the Needle is a spy thriller novel written by Welsh author Ken Follett. It was originally published in 1978 by the Penguin Group under the title Storm Island. This novel was Follett's first successful, best-selling effort as a novelist, and it earned him the 1979 Edgar Award for Best Novel from the Mystery Writers of America. The revised title is an allusion to the "eye of a needle" aphorism.The book was made into a motion picture of the same title in 1981, starring Donald Sutherland, with a screenplay adapted by Stanley Mann and directed by Richard Marquand.
WWII spy is on the run but closely followed. I kept switching loyalties throughout which was a good tactic by Follett. Who do I trust? The story moves between the spy and a newly married couple living on an island. Of course they'll eventually meet. This seemed too formulaic and cliche, but liked most of the writing. Very different from other sweeping Follett novels which I love. Probably better to have read than listened. Dramatic voice overs not appreciated.
http://verovsky-meninadospoliciais.bl...
A German spy discovers an Allied secret and must race to deliver his information to Hitler.
Several other Allied characters have to try to stop him.
A cat and mouse spy thriller.There was a lot to like about this book, but ultimately it wasn't for me.
But the real problem is that there's no strong, central heroic character, so I didn't really have a main character to root for, which became tiresome.
But keep in mind that if you need a strong main character to enjoy a book, this isn't the one for you.
It has been a while since I read a Follett novel and it was pretty good. I always enjoy a good world war 2 yarn. It did have some fluff which bogged down the story but I say go ahead and give this novel a spin
She took a step forward and then his arms went around her, and she closed her eyes an turned her face, and he kissed her, and moved slightly in his arms, and then there was a terrible, awful, unbearable sharp pain in her back and she opened her mouth to scream...'In Eye of the Needle, Follett takes us to 1944, just weeks before D-Day, with the Allies disguising their Normandy invasion plans with false intelligence and a fake armada of thousands of ships and planes.
Follett re-imagines this extraordinary moment in history by introducing a master German spy, ‘Die Nadel’ (The Needle).
"(...)Achei a escrita de Ken Follett fantástica! Simples, mas bastante atrativa. E achei brilhante o facto de me fazer "torcer" pelo espião, ou seja, pela pessoa que eu na realidade nunca quereria que tivesse sucesso. Mas a verdade é que quando estava a ler o livro (quase) queria que ele tivesse sucesso - na medida em que fosse ficção.Adorei completamente o livro, recomendo vivamente a toda a gente."(Opinião completa:http://encantodashistorias.blogspot.p...)
Very satisfying book. Reminded me of drinking a glass of chocolate milk -- like I just enjoyed it so much I couldn't take a break until it was gone, and when I finished I was like, "ah, that was good." But I suspected somewhere deep down that it's junk-foodyness outweighed its nutritional value.
Ken Follett’s Eye of the Needle is a historical thriller at its taut, gripping best, seamlessly blending historical events with suspenseful fiction.
Follett’s storytelling, though, allows the reader to be swept along on the taut chase to stop the brilliant spy before he gets word back to Hitler that would change the course of the war.
Lucy is a classic Ken Follett heroine, strong and determined, and the Needle is the perfect anti-hero—logical, brilliant, ruthless, and chillingly compelling.
In his first successful novel, the author creates a character, Henry Faber, a German spy with the code name “Die Nadel” or The Needle (his weapon of choice in dispatching his enemies being a stiletto), who has managed to avoid detection and is the biggest threat to the allies plan of the surprise D-Day invasion at Normandy.
Most of the scenarios involve Faber as we follow him through England into Scotland where he plans to make his escape with his valuable information.
You can almost feel that the author had to become the spy, to think like the spy and act like the spy.
