https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1914593.The_Splendour_Falls
Reading a Kearsley book also holds an element of deja vu to it.
- these books are much like Mary Stewart wrote over 40 years ago, only updated to modern times and with a distinctive flair all their own.Splendour Falls mixes elements of the past and the present as our heroine Emily travels to Chinon, France to meet up with her unreliable but likable cousin Harry.
Isabelle #2, they say, took her own life after a tragic love affair, but left hidden a valuable cache of diamonds.As Emily explores the medieval town of Chinon in search of her cousin, she begins to gain clues to the fate of both Isabelles and their respective treasures.
I loved Kearsley's descriptions of the town of Chinon.
It was the little castle that could, but it just ran out of fireplaces.The characters did prove somewhat interesting, but I lost sight of them amidst all the other words and phrases and tortuous plot points.On a side note, I’d like to thank my beautiful wife for bringing to light the fact that nearly half of my one and two-star reads come from NetGalley picks, which either means I can’t pick worth shit, or when it’s free, I somehow manage to lose all sense of judgment and click that button faster than Pavlov’s dog.
A mystery with elements of romance, this is about Emily Braden, a young Englishwoman who goes to Chinon in France to meet up with her notoriously unreliable historian cousin Harry, an expert in the history of the Plantagenets.
I’m planning to visit the Loire Valley early next year and I’ve wanted to see Chinon Castle for a long time because it’s the setting of The Lion in Winter.
I did not find Emily particularly believable, not a lot happens for the best part of 300 pages and some aspects of the plot remain unexplained.
It didn’t knock me out, but then I’ve stopped expecting that from a Susanna Kearsley novel.
The summary overestimates the historical input and the mystery included in the novel by far, in fact there was very little of either.
So the novel included almost no historical element, little mystery and a very ridiculous love aspect but that may not be my biggest complaint.
If you like verbosity, wandering walks in the countryside detailed for no reason but to have words on a page and including just enough historical element to make you believe there MAY be more coming only to be disappointed--this is the book for you!
* Sigh* It saddens me to have to put a low rating for one of my favorite authors. "The Splendour Falls" is really a 2.5 for me. I was under the impression that the book would delve into Queen Isabelle, wife of King John of England. Instead it turned out to be some type of mystery melodrama with zero chemistry between the female character and many of the interested male parties. If you have never read Kearsley, please try The Winter Sea,  The Firebird or Marianna.
Light, easy read and the descriptions of Chinon were wonderful, as Kearsley's settings always are. However, the mystery and romance parts of the story (otherwise known as the plot) leave a little to be desired and fall short of what I've come to expect from this author. That said, a 'meh' Kearsley is better than a lot of other books, it's just never going to be one of my favourites.Buddy read with Kim :-).
It's not that I don't think there are people who become cynical after something that, in the grand scheme of things, is rather petty, and I can at least appreciate that Kearsley presents Emily's emotional retardation as a negative thing...but I have a really hard time with the fact that that was the obstacle between the heroine and the hero.
I enjoyed the story overall, but I had a really hard time putting up with Emily "I'm scared of life" Brayden, and that made this less fun than I expected a Susanna Kearsley novel to be.
It was better that I'd learned that lesson young, instead of making their mistakes all over again.Meet Emily Braden, the twenty eight year old heroine of The Splendour Falls, whose parents divorced five years ago and now seem to lead lives that fulfill them.
But Emily was damaged by the amicable divorce so badly, that she's now a cynic.
The Splendour Falls is a mystery with romantic elements that's honestly a mixed bag of things, but for all its flaws I was kind of liking it.
Basing it all on her parents' divorce?
So, Mariana just lost the My Least Liked Kearsley Book title.
But truly, some of the plot things here are right up Stewart’s street, too: the moment where the villain kisses the heroine, that charged moment between them.
There is something dreamlike about the whole book, with these moments of clarity where you really get to know characters and see what makes them tick, even less significant ones.The plot itself is a bit convoluted, and I could perhaps have done without the drama of Hans and Isabelle’s story, the convenient way everything comes back together at just the right time… but then, it was exactly what I expected from the genre, and worked out with sympathetic characters and a sense of place, it doesn’t come off too badly.Originally posted on my blog.
A haunting story in its own way, but a beautiful one as well.Would highly recommend, pure magic it is <3Nothing to complain about here, adding her to my 'book family' list *waves* Happy reading!---Quotes:"It was a lovely night for late September, crisp and clear, filled with the drifting scents of autumn-- pungent leaves and petrol fumes and slowly burning coal.
I think we all make choices in our lives that set us down the road to happiness or disappointment.
It's just that we can't always see where the road is leading us until we're halfway there.” “I think we all make choices in our lives that set us down the road to happiness or disappointment.
Definitely not my favorite Kearsley. Took a bit too long to get the story moving and a few more characters than my sleep deprived brain could keep track of. Still, like Jemidar says, an off Kearsley is better than the rest of the genre. Kindle copy obtained via library loan.
I fell in love with Chinon through her descriptions of it, just as I've fallen in love with Exbury (fictional village inspired by Avebury, Wiltshire from Mariana), Polgelly (fictional village inspired by Polperro, Cornwall in The Rose Garden), Eyemouth (actual town in southeast Scotland from The Shadowy Horses), and Cruden Bay (actual village in Aberdeenshire, Scotland from The Winter Sea. Hotel de France, ChinonUnlike the majority of her novels, The Splendour Falls is set entirely in the present, with only brief glimpses into the past through the imagination of the main character, Emily.
I still finished this book in two sittings, devouring 300 pages in a single day because I adore her writing even when there's aspects I'm not fond of.
So if you're making your way through Kearsley's books I would still recommend this, it just definitely won't be the one I recommend to people first.In this book we follow Emily, a woman who travels to the small town of Chinon in France to go on holiday with her unreliable cousin.
I hope I have better luck with the next book of hers I read (I am 100% sure I will!)
This is my least favorite book by Susanna Kearsley so far.
The story has 2 historical sub-plots, and while this is something I normally adore in her books, having 2 historic tales in addition to the modern story was a little confusing and neither was satisfactorily developed.
I think this is one of Ms. Kearsley's earlier novels so I'm going to assume that is why I didn't love it as much as her more recent books.
If you're a big fan like me you'll want to read it, but if you've never read a book by Susanna Kearsley I suggest you don't start with this one.
http://nofeet.booklikes.com/post/1528...
Susanna Kearsley is either unconscious of superfluous description or doesn't want readers flitting through, even though mysteries and adventures ought to be pulse-racing.
Like most authors, Susanna deflated a vibrant atmosphere by adding a present crime, instead of leaving characters to solve ancient questions in the region we are visiting.
Contact could work in a million other ways.Four stars weren't possible with decorative segues holding back the power of such intriguing treasure legends, which Susanna connected superbly.
Writing, atmosphere, and pace matter even with fantastic contents and Susanna can be counted on for enthralling, mysterious content.
To a degree predictable structure, but always with beautiful settings and new twists.
I loved the setting of this story, since I'm a complete Francophile, though I've never been to Chinon.
I read it in two gulps, as compulsively as ever with Ms Kearsley's books, and I had no idea until the end of where the story was going.
It was claimed that it changed her fundamentally, but I found it difficult to believe that someone of her age, whose character must to a degree have been set, would allow herself to be so redefined.
A very lyrical story, this novel is slow and introspective.
Personally, I prefer more action and less woolgathering, but in case of this novel, the author took the only possible approach.
They enrich the story and deepen its emotional impact, and so do the numerous poetic descriptions of people and locations.The only description that is lacking is that of the protagonist.
I don’t know her back story either, and my lack of knowledge hampers my understanding of her inner conflicts.
And I did enjoy this novel, although I won’t ever re-read it.
This was a great read.
I've kind of been in a book-rut lately...seemingly reading good - ok stories but nothing that seemed to just capture me.
Splendour falls did!
Wonderful descriptions of a place I'd love to visit and quirky characters with mysteriousness surrounding them.
It's also an easy read.It is a bit different from the other 2 Kearsley books I've read, but in no way inferior.
That being said, I was shocked to see low reviews on this one from lots of people.
I'm so glad I didn't look at the reviews before reading.
It is also a "clean" story!!
I had a very difficult time putting this book down to prepare for Christmas, and I finished on Christmas!
Now to the kitchen to cook, but first Susanna Kearsley’s The Splendour Falls is a enthralling book.
Emily Braden and her cousin, Harry, go on holiday to Chinon, France.
In Chinon are the ruins of a castle that belonged to King John of England and his second wife, Isabelle of Angouleme.
Emily arrives, but where is Harry?
The author’s characters are beautifully drawn.
The story is so cleverly weaved together that it touches all of the characters.
Definitely a 5 star book!
Going to Chinon in order to treasure hunt along with her cousin Harry seems like a way for Emily to get back involved with people and places after her parent's divorce.
Mystery sets in when Emily is still searching for her cousin and starts to become afraid that something happened to him once he reached Chinon.
This book changed halfway through from being what I thought would be an exploration of Chinon and the history of King John and Queen Isabelle to a murder mystery plot that I think even Poirot would have passed on as being too simplistic.
I admit it! I am a Kearsley addict....and just when you think, 'this is good but different' (for it is different from her usual style - an earlier work) she brings it altogether at the end that leaves you grinning from ear to ear! Agatha Christie move aside, this novel kept you guessing and had so much heart and soul that you were there in Chinon France feeling each and every emotion of these characters. Loved it.
I have been enjoying Susanna Kearsley as far as the only couple other books I've read by her, so it was probably inevitable that I'd come across a disappointment--I just hadn't expected it so early on.
The Splendour Falls dragged something awful, and the truth is, the actual story's conflict doesn't even quite surface until about 8 hours into the audio book; 8 hours out of a 12 hour audio book.As I had had a good impression of Kearsley since the first book I'd read, I'm hoping the next one will be a bit better.
she continued to the boring speshul snowflake and I had a hard time relating to her.I will have a full review out soon.***
Her ability to string together words and phrases and create these atmospheric tales of interesting characters and places is incredible.
So far (of the entire 2 1/2 books of hers that I've read), I love how the details of the geography and the architecture of the areas she describes feel so real to me.
It's almost like they become characters themselves.
The ruins around Chinon certainly felt like that in this book.
Ms. Kearsley excels at using few words, yet depths of emotion are felt.
While I wouldn't say I loved this story with no reservations, I can absolutely say I am planning to read more of her books in the very near future!
3.5 stars
Whether it’s this high expectation or the story itself I am not sure, but The Splendour Falls fell somewhat flat for me.The narrator’s voice was beautiful and the way she read through the descriptions of Chinon, France really helped immerse me in the setting, but it was hard to keep track of the various characters, their actions and their connections to the main character, Emily Braden, as the sound of their voices all meshed together.
This is the second book I've read by Susanna Kearsley. I really liked this one, a mystery in the past and present. As I was reading it I thought of how much it was like books of two of my favorite authors in the late 60s and the 70s: Mary Stewart, and Victoria Holt. Just a good fast read and totally kept my interest.I looked up books by her and there are many more for me to read. Which is a good thing.
But, there was King John and Queen Isabelle and siege and intrigue and hidden treasure.
Despite his promise, King John did not come for Isabelle during the siege; despite his promise, Harry did not meet Emily’s train on her journey to Chinon.
Although Emily had known of King John and Queen Isabelle, she was unaware of all that was hidden in Chinon – hidden in its history or hidden in the many tunnels running underneath it.
It did not take long, however, for her to become ensconced in the complexities and intrigues of its people and its history.
I love Kearsley so I more or less knew what to expect, but I think this might be one of her most suspenseful, mysterious ones I've read (that I can remember).
All of the characters in this story come in at certain times, and so you wonder what everyone means to the plot.
That's something of Kearsley's writing I love, that all her characters MEAN something.
Finally, one of the other things I love about Kearsley's writing is the way she does romances.
They are completely subtle, and I will admit that sometimes I just want to shout "COME ON" but that's what makes them wholly satisfying at the end.
The Splendour Falls by Susanna Kearsley follows Emily Braden, a disenchanted and somewhat cynical young woman to Chinon where her flaky cousin is supposed to meet her for a holiday/research opportunity.
Not to mention that through all of this, Emily is pulled three different directions: to find her cousin, to the charming French vineyard owner and to the brooding German violinist.This is not a typical Susanna Kearsley book.
Kearsley weaves the old stories of Chinon and the castle into the modern plot in such a way that you can't help but think "this must have happened." The romance was believable and the villain was not some lurker in the shadows but someone in sad and strange circumstances.
