https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/36896898-spinning-silver
She finds herself marrying the tsar himself who's the too-pretty son of a condemned witch whose crown was bought by demon-borrowed magic, an evil thing of smoke and hunger that Irina must find a way to outwit every day just to live and save her people from its rule.Wanda whose house was a place so direly poor that they ran out of food before they ran out of winter, and whose life is drained to the dregs then put down empty by a father who drunk away their borrowed coin until Miryem stood in their half-frozen doorway laying claim to what’s owed to her family.
Because that's what the story is really about: getting out of paying your debts. There is just something about Novik's fairy tales. Something magical, atmospheric and utterly charming. I didn't like Spinning Silver quite as much as my beloved Uprooted - and I'll explain why a bit later - but it still kept me captivated from start to finish.Spinning Silver is a loose retelling of Rumpelstiltskin. I say "loose" because you will recognise certain elements from the original - turning things into go
There's also not just one Rumpelstiltskin character, as several characters embody different aspects of the traditional imp.I love that it's a very pastoral fairy tale with forests and country magic.
Unfortunately, this attracts the attention of one of the Staryk - fearsome creatures who desire gold above all else.I found it really interesting that Novik explored the idea of a Jewish moneylender as Rumpelstiltskin.
It's clever, and I loved it.In some ways, it is a smarter book than Uprooted, and yet I didn't like it quite as much because parts of this were definitely convoluted.
It's a fascinating, exciting fairy tale with a whole lot of atmosphere and charm.
One of the best books I've read all year. Maybe THE best.Good language. Excellent take on traditional faerie tale tropes. Brilliant storytelling. Amazing characterization.There's nothing not to like here, honestly. And I'm going to be buying several copies as Christmas gifts for sure.
ARC provided by Dey Rey in exchange for an honest review.  “Bring me the winter king, and I will make you a summer queen.”  Spinning Silver is one of the best books I’ve read all year. I loved this story with every fiber of my being. And Naomi Novik is a master at storytelling and interweaving stories together. You all know that this is a very loose reimaging of Rumpelstiltskin but I’d say it’s more of an empowering tale of three girls, all on three different paths, all promised to three differe
You all know that this is a very loose reimaging of Rumpelstiltskin but I’d say it’s more of an empowering tale of three girls, all on three different paths, all promised to three different men, while all being looked over by three different mothers.
Three is such a constant theme in this book, too, and it really helps reinforce that this story feels like a tangible piece of magic in your hands while reading.
Miryem and her entire family are Jewish, and from the first to last page this plays a pivotal role in the story.
You guys know I love reading about found families, but all three girls in this book are the epitome of found families.
This is not a novel about love; it is one about survival in a cut-throat world where the rich and powerful exploit the poor, weak and helpless.
And tyranny can come in many forms, and often those who are supposed to love and protect us become the worse of the lot.
Miryem learns to turn silver into gold by taking up her father’s money lending business, and eventually what appears to be a natural aptitude for business develops into a fully-fledged magical ability that captures the attention of an Ice King.
4.5 starsI’m. Just. SO. Happy.This is completely different from UPROOTED. Kind of. It’s still a fairytale-like story, but it’s wholly unrelated to the Dragon and Agnieszka. There are no awesome tree people. There’s no wooden Kasia or royal orphans or upstart wizards. There are awesome some-other-kind-of-people who may or may not be wintery in origin. And a not-so-awesome demon. And not one, not two, but THREE new heroines, all hampered by expectations, all saying, EFF that, RAWRRR. Full RTC.
What I mean is, Novik really took the idea of spinning straw to gold and the importance of a name, and just made that shit her own new story.*tips hat*So, in this fairytale Eastern Europeanish setting, there's this spunky little Jewish girl named Miryem that kicks ass and takes names.
<--in case you were under the impression that our girl was a sweetheart.And maybe at first Wanda is just hanging on for dear life, but somewhere along the way she finds her voice.And then there's the rest of this enormous cast of characters...The POV changes in this thing are unreal.
Miryam rather defiantly tells her mother that she shouldn’t be sorry that her daughter has the ability to change silver into gold.However, there’s a magical road that appears and disappears in Lithvas during the winter, controlled by the fae-like Staryk, and other ears have heard Miryam’s boast to her mother during her journey back to their village.
It’s a fairly subtle connection between our three main characters.Spinning Silver is an enchanting fantasy, woven of fire and ice, sunlit gold and Staryk silver, icy faerie winter and Lithvas spring.
No one freak out, but I just thoroughly enjoyed a fantasy book 😍 this was so immersive and well written and I liked it a heckin’ ton!
Then I saw that this was a big book and I didn't know how the author is going to retell such a short story in all those pages.I started this and was a bit confused by the continuous change in POV, I wish that it was written in 3rd Person because it would have been better.
I found some 3 and 3.5 stars reviews but no 2 stars, no DNFs so I decided to read a bit more but nothing much happened.
From Shabbat to weddings to prayers, I loved the inclusion of Jewish culture!However, having said that, I would like to point out that there is quite a bit of antisemitism in this novel, as well…So, fair warning, if that’s something that you don’t want to read about.Spinning Silver is an exquisite and atmospheric, pastoral wintery tale told from the perspectives of not one, not two, but three female protagonists, in addition to a few others along the way.
I absolutely loved Spinning Silver and I would definitely recommend this to anyone who enjoys faery tale retellings, especially ones such as Uprooted and The Bear and the Nightingale.
I loved the Rumpelstiltskin story as a child, so when I heard that she was writing a retelling of it, I knew I had to get my hands on a copy—and now, it made me wonder how I ever lived without the incredible worlds of magic and fantasy she crafts.
The story alternates perspectives, primarily between the women in the story, with its focus resting mainly on Miryem (the tax collector’s daughter), Wanda (Miryem’s hired help), and Irina (the local duke’s daughter).
More than anything, though, I think Spinning Silver is a story of feminism and independent, strong-willed women.
This is also one of the most atmospheric wintry stories I’ve ever read in my life.
Novik introduces three daring female protagonists in this clever re-imagining of Rumpelstiltskin.
Their flat response evokes a perpetual sense of apathy, a problem that's exacerbated by glacial pacing, further compounded by two of the female protagonists having such similar plot lines as to feel redundant.
The final nail in the coffin - or icicle in the heart - is the inclusion of multiple POVs. Novik opens with two primary voices, but more characters are introduced as the story progresses.
A change in POV is indicated by an icon of a spinning wheel, but the speaker is not identified and new character voices are dropped without preamble.
I feel like every month so far I have read a book and said it was my favorite book of the year. But y'all. This is my favorite book of the year
I have a great many conflicting thoughts on this. Review to come on my channel and there will be much to discuss at the BookNet Fest Book Club panel for this book this year!
Believe me, I was thrilled when she started writing fairy-tale-inspired fantasy novels, and I absolutely adored Uprooted, but I just wasn’t as taken with this one as I expected to be.The story of Spinning Silver contains several POVs, but the closest we have to a main protagonist is Miryem, the daughter of a very bad moneylender.
4.25 starsAn awesome Rumpelstiltskin retelling. RTC.
Uprooted was one of my favorite reads of 2016, so I was beyond thrilled that Naomi Novik was again going to give us a new fairytale. Spinning Silver has some roots in Rumpelstiltskin but don’t think that means you know how this story is going to go because even though you might see a resemblance this is a brand new fairytale.  “A power claimed and challenged and thrice carried out is true”  The world for this has foundations from the Jewish culture, blended into a world with subtle magics and a
Spinning Silver has some roots in Rumpelstiltskin but don’t think that means you know how this story is going to go because even though you might see a resemblance this is a brand new fairytale.
I really enjoyed how Novik blended all of these parts together to give us an entirely new story that feels like it is old and a classic fairytale already.Spinning Silver is a multiple PoV fantasy that follows a few characters as their stories and the world around them grows.
A lot of these retellings of old myths and fairy tales are hit or miss with me, but I come to you today to tell you that this was not a miss.
:) Indeed, nothing was amiss.The combination of several different old fairy tales and the new-norm for Russian-style fantasy hit all the right buttons for me.
The Winter King can be cruel and harsh, the stakes are often hidden but quite vast, and simple, if powerful, magics are never enough when a Great Working is desperately needed.At least two big stories are interwoven here, between a seamstress who marries the Czar and the moneylender's daughter who gets carried away by the Winter King.
Mwahahahahahahahahahaha!!!!!! I read this early!!!!! >:)It’s definitely the spiritual successor of UPROOTED. It has all the heart, family, riveting magic you could ask for, and a gorgeous slow burn/unveiling of feelings that will make you desperate to turn the page and loathe to finish. Also. I loved the ending. It’s definitely up there with top 10 book endings.
I adored this book so much! The writing is absolutely stunning. The girl power is next level. The atmosphere is positively perfection.
4.5 Shiny silversThis retelling based of Rumpelstiltskin is a fantasy fairy tale of epic proportions without the loss of whimsical folklore.In a small village in the country of Lithvas lives a Jewish money-lender and his family.
As the story unfolds in the almost 500 page novel, it never loses the intimacy and intricacy of small details.
Moments of simple dinners, meaning of family and friendship and an appreciation for the simplest of beauty shines through in several spots of the novel.
And I know that this novel is not for children, but it held it’s intricacies or moods closer to an original.
I enjoyed Uprooted and I loved this one, so I might actually have to read everything Naomi Novik has ever written.This is a very loose retelling of Rumpelstilzchen which incorporates parts of other fairy tales as well – so I was always going to love it.
I am such a huge fan of books written in this fairy-talesque manner and if they then are set in snowy, frozen parts of the world I am in reading heaven.
The prose is stunning and fluid, the world imagined is vivid and wonderful, and the main three characters were absolutely brilliant.Unlike Uprooted, this book is told from multiple perspectives, which I mostly adored.
I was afraid. He wore spurs on his heels and jewels on his fingers like enormous chips of ice, and the voices of all the lost souls in blizzards howled behind him. Of course I was afraid.But I had learned to fear other things more: being despised, whittled down to one small piece of myself at a time, smirked at and taken advantage of. Spinning Silver is an absolute wonder. It’s a tale that manages to weave the perspectives of a Jewish moneylender’s daughter (and moneylender in her own right), a
Le Guin's Earthsea cycle, and I’ve never stopped loving it since.Now I’m gonna address some stuff that I liked, but that some folks might find off-putting: the pacing.I’ll grant that the opening section of the novel, in which Miryem determines to carry out her father’s debt-collecting and becomes connected to Wanda and Irina, definitely takes its sweet time developing.
There’s definitely action in the novel, but it takes a long time for it to pick up and for the story to show its true colors.I don’t even know how to end this review, if I’m being honest.
I spent almost the entire TWO WEEKS allotted by my library to finish Spinning Silver, and as it is a hot new book, (BOTM, no less) there were probably lots of my neighbors desperate for me to get my shizz together and read this thing.
One thing I know for sure is that you DO NOT want mystical winter forestboys falling under the assumption that you can turn silver into gold.
Basically, if you love language, dynasties, retribution, HOSTAGE CRISES OF BIBLICAL PROPORTION and *shiny things,* you'll find something to love about Spinning Silver.And with that, I'm going to hop off this train and PROMISE that my next review will be more articulate.
Thrice you shall turn silver to gold for me, or be changed to ice yourself.  I'm so glad I buddy read this with my lovely friend, Helena! I enjoyed this book even more because I was reading it with you! <3 *sends love*How can I even begin to explain this masterpiece????Spinning Silver is a retelling of Rumplestilskin. It mainly follows the perspective of three girls, Miryem, Wanda and Irina as they navigate, outsmart and endure the society that they live in.I was mystified by this book. It
I'm so glad I buddy read this with my lovely friend, Helena!
I enjoyed this book even more because I was reading it with you!
<3 *sends love*How can I even begin to explain this masterpiece????Spinning Silver is a retelling of Rumplestilskin.
It really did feel like you were reading a fairy tale.
The way Naomi put words together to create this book was amazing.
Everything she put in this book was there for a reason.I loved how badass Naomi's female characters were.
I enjoyed reading how cunning and smart they all were!
I don't have much to say; just that it was totally gorgeous 💜 I'm a sucker for books with a fairytale-ish (can I even say so?) vibe to them.
I honestly thought the book could have been shorter/ the pacing could have been faster but all in all a 4.5 star read.
The writing sucked me right in and I loved all female characters.
Such smart, cunning ladies 💜 I wish the ending could have been dragged out more.
*slightly grumbling over this* I kinda wished I had saved this for Winter since the book is ALL about Winter.
I LOVED THIS BOOK SO MUCH OH MY GOSH
Irina, the plain daughter of a duke who is destined to be married off to a loveless, arranged marriage, until her father uses Staryk silver to change her fate.However, around the middle of the book or so, we get THREE new POVs. One of them I loved: Stepon, Wanda's little empathic brother, who stole my heart.
I felt like those could have been edited out and released as deleted scenes in a special edition or something.One more issue: (view spoiler)[the way the Staryk king suddenly wanted to marry Miryem and turned nicer was abrupt and awkward to me.
I'm just here to casually drop y'all a list of things you're going to adore about Spinning Silver."The real story isn't half as pretty as the one you've heard."✨ All the heroines are amazing and strong in their own ways!
Even the secondary characters played important roles in the story.
And they're all so well-developed--in fact, at some point everyone felt like a main character.✨ Different family dynamics are explored.
The thing is, despite how these families are, they're all important to the main characters and their development.
It made me so happy seeing another fantasy read where families play a big role in the story.✨ MAGIC!
