https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/33590210-an-american-marriage
Much of life is timing and circumstance, I see that now. I know it's still early, but I've got a feeling this is going to be one of my favourite reads of 2018. It is a powerful, subtle, sad tale about the criminal justice system in America, and the personal, long-term consequences of its injustices.There's a lot of discussion, articles and fiction looking at race-based injustice in the prison system of the United States. Most of these focus on racial-profiling of young black men, and how juries
It is a powerful, subtle, sad tale about the criminal justice system in America, and the personal, long-term consequences of its injustices.There's a lot of discussion, articles and fiction looking at race-based injustice in the prison system of the United States.
While race - specifically, being a black American - is one of the major pillars of the novel, it is not so much the focus as the stage on which this tale of love, marriage and loyalty plays out.
I can’t say that I loved An American Marriage. What I can say, is that it made me think deeply about human nature, love, and, of course, marriage. This is a thought-provoking, well-written, depth-filled character study about a marriage on the brink.  Celestial and Roy, a young couple from Atlanta, have been married for just over a year when Roy is arrested and sentenced to 12 years in jail. Will their marriage survive their separation or will they be able to withstand Roy’s incarceration? The b
This is a thought-provoking, well-written, depth-filled character study about a marriage on the brink.
The bulk of the story focuses on a love triangle between Roy, Celestial, and Celestial’s childhood friend, Andre.
In addition to romantic love and marriage, themes of motherhood and fatherhood, race, class, and tradition also play prominent roles.
Told in alternating point of views, as well as through letters, the devolution of Roy and Celestial’s marriage is revealed through their letters.
What it does have are three very real, well-drawn out characters who are struggling with both the choices that they have made and not being able to change what they cannot control.
I'll start with what I did like.
Roy was a rising business executive but because he was in the wrong place at the wrong time and fit a certain description his life/marriage was upended.
The first part of the book is in epistolary form where we see the letter exchanges between Celestial and Roy while he was prison.
This is basically the only part of the book where I felt any semblance of a connection to the story.
I didn't connect to Roy or Celestial so I didn't feel invested in their story.
4.5 stars, rounded up. For the latest resurrection of her book club, Oprah chose Tayari Jones' latest novel, An American Marriage. Raw, powerful, full of searing emotion, this is a book which speaks not only to the relationship between man and woman, husband and wife, but it touches on the bond between parents and their children, even in adulthood, and the mercurial nature of life."Love makes a place in your life, it makes a place for itself in your bed. Invisibly, it makes a place in your body,
Roy is accused of committing a crime Celestial knows he is innocent of, and he is sentenced to a 12-year prison sentence.
Roy struggles with the idea of spending 12 years in prison for a crime he didn't commit, and finds it difficult to be so isolated as the outside world keeps marching on.
But which one is right for her?Narrated in alternating chapters by Roy, Celestial, and Andre, An American Marriage is a searing portrait of the ragged ways we fall in and out of love.
Which way did things go for Roy and Celestial?The other timely topics explored have to do with racism and mass incarceration.
The secondary characters were added depth and conflict and were also very well drawn, and equally affected by the outcome of Roy and Celetial's marriage.While the book is not filled with action or suspense, or even, despite the heaviness of the situation, is it melodramatic, with one exception, that, to be honest, almost had to happen, to break the tension that boiled to the surface.
reading “Fair and Tender Ladies at night and middle of the night)My mind is swimming with wonderful feelings and thoughts and experiences of great created characters from our books Little friends in our head.So...
there are MANY VARIED REVIEWS on“THE AMERICAN MARRIAGE”....I’m only going to add one more final thought:Opinion really!
I mentioned in my little review that this book is a great ‘ examination of marriage...I ALSO think it’s a great discussion whether or not to MARRY or NOT in this day and age.
Three of them you can swap out, but two are yours to keep: family and native land.”There were different points in the book where I disliked all three of the primary characters, however I was so engrossed I had to keep reading to find out how this story would play out.
I feel like there was excess in trying to frame Celestial as an independent woman though - Outside of a professional sense, I didn’t find her to be that independent at all.
I liked that while Roy and Celestial were both adults, their parents still played a central role in the story.
Now married to Celestial, a young woman with dreams of her own, are traveling to meet his parents for the first time.
The visit will prove less than successful, and a terrible miscarriage of Justice will occur that will detail their young lives and marriage.These are characters to that one wants to root for, wants things to turn out well for them.
A story where events shape a future, where a chance meeting changes a life, where the only bad guy is the Justice system, a system it is almost impossible to defeat.
But it was a short-lived slump, and the beginning and the end of the book are so insanely powerful, the other sock almost flew off my other foot.
The main point is I’m flying high on my pogo stick because this book is amazing!
This was the beginning of the slump that kept my one sock on, tight, and made me consider dragging out the Complaint Board.
I know it’s just me, but I usually don’t like ceremonies—in books or in real life (unless something big and surprising happens).
This was a beautifully written, thought-provoking, slow burn novel that crept its way into my heart, settling deep within my bones.
I will be thinking of these characters long after finishing this book.This story follows Roy and Celestial, a young newlywed couple who have a passionate and impetuous relationship – loving deeply and arguing stubbornly.
The story is narrated by both Roy and Celestial, along with Celestial’s childhood friend Andre.
There are several letters included throughout the story between various characters, mainly Roy and Celestial while he is in prison.
One of the things I liked the most about this novel is that a portion of the book is comprised of letters, mostly between Roy while in prison for a crime he didn’t commit and his wife Celestial.
Letter writing seems like it’s from a bygone time and I never feel as if e-mail and certainly not texts adequately reflect the intimate picture of ourselves that a hand written letter does.
A lot of times like so many other readers I suspect, when we’re in the middle of a book we have an idea, a hope perhaps, of how we want the story to conclude .
Edited 9/20 to add: My book club discussed this last night and while not everyone loved the book (but no one disliked it), it made for a lively and interesting discussion. I'd highly recommend for book clubs.I’m afraid I’m in the outlier club with this one. What I liked:- The writing is gorgeous. 4-5 stars for the beauty of the prose. Plus the author writes in a way that sounds like the way real people think and talk- The letters Celestial and Roy exchanged- How one unfortunate tragic event, unf
It gives food for thought.-	it was thought-provoking with complex moral themes surrounding loyalty and marriageWhat I didn’t like:-	The characters.
Which I can’t explain because I usually like my characters somewhat complicated and flawed.
Unlikability is not a deal breaker, but I like what I like and often I can’t even explain why I am so turned off by some characters.-	The plot – after the beginning I just stopped caring.
I will definitely read anything else the author writes because I found this book so well-written and her style so engaging, but this one just didn't quite work for me.
"I feel like I need and need and need and it's wearing a hole in the fabric."Celestial and Roy's marriage is just breaking ground as a young seedling when the earth ravages the soil and the fissures play havoc with such gentle growth.
No matter how many times that Celestial recants the story that Roy was with her all night, the court hears otherwise.
Roy will serve his time....twelve years to be exact.Tayari Jones weaves her story through a series of powerful letters written back and forth between the married couple after Roy is incarcerated.
We just do, folks, under completely different constellations this time.
Nothing is ever over.This was beautiful. This was a slow roil. A story told with realistic dialogue. A story littered with metaphors. A story sprinkled with wisdom.I listened to the audio and it was sublime...so gorgeous were the cadence and rhythm that I was often mesmerized, wrapped up in the story and swept away by what felt like a foreign language and a different culture. Highly recommend. 4.75 stars
I cannot, for the life of me, understand why people like this book.
If it weren’t for Oprah loving it, I honestly do not think people would buy it.
There was no plot and it is the most boring book I’ve ever read.
Basically if you read the synopsis, you’ve read all the “exciting” parts and know the entire plot.
It’s technically an easy read but boring overall.
I powered through to finish it since it has so many positive reviews, with the hopes that it would suddenly turn around or have an amazing ending that would make it worth reading.
Told via letters exchanged between Roy and Celestial, this is a novel through which emotion flows like a river: sometimes, lazy and easy, and sometimes, like the river wild.
They are more heartfelt, full of either friendship or romance and are a way to stay connected..and that is true here in “An American Marriage.” Roy’s letters to Celestial are real, full of love, feeling and need, changing over time, becoming bitter and angry.
“An American Marriage” is a novel about racism, love and friendship, the trials and tribulations of marriage and the ramifications of the choices we make and those that are made for you.
”When I look into your eyesIt's like watching the night skyOr a beautiful sunriseThere's so much they hold“And just like them old starsI see that you've come so farTo be right where you areHow old is your soul?“I won't give up on usEven if the skies get roughI'm giving you all my loveI'm still looking up”  --”I Won’t Give Up,” Jason Mraz, Songwriters: Jason Mraz, Michael NatterRoy is a young man living in Atlanta, born and raised in Eloe, Louisiana, but Atlanta is where he raised himself from b
They’ve barely been married a year when they are traveling back to Eloe, to see his parents, and their world falls apart.
Carried by six or judged by twelve.”Neither of them was ever prepared for a life like this, and slowly they begin to find fault, assign words with a different meaning or intention in the letters they exchange.
It read as though a book fairy had flown over the author’s shoulder waving her wand and dusting it with little doses of love, tragedy, understanding and even some subtle humour that prevents this from becoming stranded in a darker, heavier territory, or from veering too far into “women’s fiction.” My favourite part of this story: the letters.
They had money, good jobs, a promising life together, and then it was all shattered.This is a in-depth story told from the point of view of both Celestrial and Roy and their friend, Andre.
Roy does not come from money, his parents seem to struggle.
But Roy pushes himself in college and finally has a good high paying job.
And here you see how this impacts the marriage of Celestrial and Roy. It is such a wonderful, character driven novel.
I felt that Roy and Celestrial were telling me their story.
I did not know who this author was but you can bet I'll be reading more by her.
Celestial and Roy have only been married a bit over a year when he’s found guilty of a crime.
The author gets certain things exactly right, like being caught between a parent and a spouse.
And how little we really know about our spouse when we go into marriage.
Prison forces Celestial and Roy to write each other and in writing, they initially give up their secrets.
We can’t predict how things will turn out for us.
Bad things happen and we are forced to deal with them, deserved or not.
I felt all sorts of emotions for both Roy and Celestial.
I don’t read a lot of books about marriage, relationships, love, etc.But, listen, when Oprah tells you to read something, you read it.
Coming up right after the break.
Coming up right after this.
We will be right back with the new Oprah thing.
Oprah coming up.
Stay turned for a book.
Books coming right up.
When I heard what the book was about I was not enthused and rolled like a sloth off of the couch on to the floor.
Later that week, I walked into the library and there was An American Marriage right there in an American library for an American to read.
That ending...Writing- 4 starsCharacters- 3 starsLanguage- 3 starsPlot/Concept- 2 starsUgh! Those people exhaust me. Only the parents and Davina were likable. Can't forget about the Uncle who helped Roy. I didn't like Celestial's mother either.
Audiobook performed by Sean Crisden & Eisa Davis 9h  I really enjoyed the performance of these narrators as they breathe life into Tayari Jones' story.
They definitely kept me riveted to my seat as the triple narrative between Celestial, Roy, and Andre unfolded.
Given the title, the central story really is about this couple's marriage-their courtship and all that comes after.
Oh and how I loved both Big Roy and Mr.Davenport!
Goodreads has over ten thousand strong reviews and it appears that this book is appealing to a wide range of diverse readers.
Thanks to my Goodreads friend, La Tonya for the recommendation.
The strongest writing I've read in a while. Witty in all the right places. Rich characters. The plot isn't ultra-memorable but I have the feeling it's going to haunt me the more I think about it. There's a lot of overt conflict, internal and external, but the ever-present social subtext is what makes it art. Glad I didn't miss it!
I decided to pick up An American Marriage because Tayari Jones has a fun instagram.
Therefore it really does hurt to write that An American Marriage savagely disappointed me.The novel concerns a married couple, Roy and Celestial, who live a fairly normal life until Roy is sent to jail for allegedly raping another woman.
She has a real master touch.However, no matter how much I polish it up, there’s no helping the plot of An American Marriage.
But as for An American Marriage, I’m glad that Oprah saw something in it that I didn’t.
If you can, read this without knowing anything about it.
Sorry.)This is a book about marriage and the very specific kind of loyalty it asks us to give.
Is that loyalty a fair thing to ask?
And when those things happen, you're forced to ask yourself whether your marriage can see it through.
The beauty of this book is how both Celestial and Roy are allowed to exist as full, complex people.
An excellent book club pick for a group that likes hot button issues and meaty discussion topics.
4.5 for this novel, an Oprah book selection! Oprah has never let me down with her book choices!A terrible racial injustice has occurred that rips apart the marriage of a black couple, Roy and Celestial after only a year of marriage. The storytelling is stellar and the characters are just so real. Very moving! Recommended!
3+ Stars.
AN AMERICAN MARRIAGE (An Oprah pick) is the story of a well-educated, falsely accused black man who endures incarceration....with a kicker....while his newlywed, wishy-washy wife works hard, but makes some poor decisions living life on the outside.Of Roy and Celestial, I can say I never felt a strong bond between them....least of all true love....not from the very beginning....not like Olive and big Roy.Of the story itself, (for me) it had its moments....the letters were very well done....kept me reading, but the predictable plot lacked depth otherwise.
However, in the case of Roy and Celestrial, newly married, their life takes a most unhappy turn when Roy is accused of rape.
Will their marriage survive?Both of our protagonists are well educated, they have done everything right and yet here they are victims of what the criminal justice system does to some people.Tayari Jones has constructed for the reader a story that points to what it means to be black in America.
Her style offers subtle clues to the undercurrents of prison life, women tied to prisoners, and a powerful story that marriage in all its forms is difficult for all especially black people.
What a great read.
It's exhilarating and exhausting—I assume just like marriage.
Jones deftly examines a marriage broken apart by unfortunate circumstances (an innocent husband accused of rape and sentence to 12 years in jail) from 3 perspectives: the husband, the wife, and the long-time friend.
I thought the three POVs were very interesting, though especially early on in the story not written with enough distinction; that's my only complaint.
It's a complex, intriguing story that's told in accessible prose but still has a depth to it that's unmatched by many books I've read lately.
An American Marriage is my first Tayari Jones novel but it won't be my last. I had my doubts going in because Oprah tends to choose sad and depressing books for her bookclub and given the subject matter I feared An American Marriage would be sad, depressing and anger inducing. I'm happy to report that An American Marriage beautifully written, honest, heartbreaking but ultimately its a story of hope. Ms. Jones has created not fictional characters but real people. I recognized Celestial, Andre &am
I had my doubts going in because Oprah tends to choose sad and depressing books for her bookclub and given the subject matter I feared An American Marriage would be sad, depressing and anger inducing.
I'm happy to report that An American Marriage beautifully written, honest, heartbreaking but ultimately its a story of hope.
I recognized Celestial, Andre & Roy, I know them.
An American Marriage is a love story but not in the conventional way of thinking.
2018 BookRiot Read Harder Challenge: An Oprah's Bookclub SelectionAround the year in 52 books: Literary Fiction
