https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/14201.Jonathan_Strange_Mr_Norrell
When will authors like Clarke realize that what the fantasy genre needs are more pseudo-medieval monomyths that sprawl out into fifteen volumes?Her magic didn't conveniently solve all of the characters' problems, instead, they wasted time thinking through conflicts and then had to solve them by taking action; how dull is that?
I mean, I guess you could just have the omniscient narrator tell us everything in detail, that's almost as good.Come to think of it, this book had a lot of history stuff, it was almost like she had read a whole bunch about the period her book was set in, which is such a waste of time, because if that's what I wanted, I'd just read a history book.
When I finished the book, I immediately turned out the light and tried to drift off to sleep, because I knew nothing else I did that night was going to top the feeling I got after blowing through the last 100 pages like a madwoman.
I want to start it over again, immediately.The book is like reading Dickens, with the dialogue of Jane Austen, and the best writing of every classic fantasy I've read.
But I think I'm justified in doing it now, if only to give an idea of the kind of amazing feeling that the book gives you from reading it and finishing it.Books like this are why I love literature.Read it.
And I love the idea of magic in an otherwise real setting, as though it were a normal part of our actual world.
It's fiction, it's fantasy, but when you're writing about basic human beings who have otherwise behaved consistently throughout the book, and then they react to something in a way you know isn't consistent and isn't how people would act, it pops the bubble of your suspended disbelief and sort of ruins the story.
In that way, the cold, dispassionate history book style disappoints, because what we really want is a story.
Jonathan Strange and Mr. Norrell is a blend of meticulously researched historical fiction and imaginative fantasy, sprinkled here and there with biting social comedy, and written in a style similar to Austen's, which is, of course, relevant to the age in which the story takes place, the early years of 19th century England.
The story further unfurls with the appearance of a certain silver-haired fairy, Norrell's and Strange's involvements in the Napoleonic Wars, and also the revelation of the prophecy of The Raven King in all its mythical grandeur.JS & MN is a long, meandering read that needs to be slowly savored, not to be rushed.
Jesus Christ, this book reads like molasses.
It's like the author took every book from her Brit Lit class and consciously tried to make it wordier and longer than all of them combined.
I get the point she wants to make, but I honestly could not get past the second chapter.
It left me feeling bored, stupid, depressed and confused, and those are four words that I do not like to associate with reading.If you really want to plow through a novel like this, just go read some  Charles Dickens.
You get used to him after a few pages and you start to like him after the first chapter.
This is a work of complete magical genius Indeed, she has written it in the pastiche style of Jane Austen and Charles Dickens; she has used their language style, narrative techniques and masterful characterisations to create a novel that is a superb work of fantasy.
“I suppose a magician might,” he admitted, “but a gentleman never would.”It is no wonder then that England prefers Strange to his tutor.
Clarke, like Rowling, shows us a world that is dry and boring; it is infested by those that have no affinity for magic.
(B+) 77% | GoodNotes: Very slow paced and the ending doesn’t justify its length, but characters are strong and it shows flashes of brilliance.
If a novel of nearly 900 pages can be summarised in one phrase then Jonathan Strange & Mr Norrell may, I think, be described as a stately, sly, witty, intricate, comic retelling of Dracula, with digressions and very little blood.Count Dracula takes life from beautiful young ladies, enslaves them, enchants them, enraptures them, steals them away, into his own twilight (oops, sorry) vampire world – they become something other than what they were, undead, not alive yet not dead, creatures which do his bidding (the company I work for does something quite similar so it appears to be legal).
Adventures in reading Jonathan Strange & Mr Norrell with my real-life book club (also posted on Fantasy Literature):Tadiana: This book is like a mashup of Jane Austen, or maybe Charles Dickens, and fantasy, with Regency-era British magicians and charming, vindictive and devious faeries.
The main plotline of this novel deals with the on-and-off friendship between two very different magicians: Mr Norrell, who is bookish, stuffy and reclusive, and Jonathan Strange, who's a younger, charming and impetuous person, and their dealings and troubles with Faerie and other magical places and characters, but there are several subplots intricately woven into this tale.
Also, I tend to feel more comfortable reading SF than fantasy, the problem I personally have with a lot of fantasy is suspension of disbelief when magic manifests in some way.
Impossible!_______________________* I read the Kindle edition, the footnotes are hypertext links that jump to the back of the book (after the novel is ended), I had to ensure that I bookmark the page before I click on any footnote otherwise it would have been difficult to find my way back.Footnotes(!)• A footnote about the footnotes.
If a writer is going to publish a book this big (thousand plus pages) then it must be very good, or the readers will never know about the thousands plus pages beyond the heft as they toss it aside or by the thickness as it is put back on the shelf.This book is that good.Using language correct for the time period (Napoleonic Wards era, early 1800s) and richly complex characterizations reminiscent of Jane Austen or Charles Dickens, author Susanna Clarke has crafted a gem.
the hero of this novel, Mr. Norrell, is in many ways a stranger in a strange land, uncomfortable with base emotions and disappointed with the shabbiness and inadequacies of others...
a dignified, erudite, and refined gentleman; quietly soulful and elegantly restrained; commanding in his encyclopedic knowledge of the magical arts.
even worse, Strange's nascent addictive personality rears its dark dark head, causing all sorts of trouble with various dire characters that were once thought lost in history.
fortunately, Mr. Norrell is a stalwart and brave ally, and his careful guidance soon sets things in their natural order - no thanks to the whimsical and unreliable Strange.***an awesome book, one of my favorites.
In retrospect, this might explain some of the jumps in plotting and setting, and account for the way plots were set down and then picked up a hundred pages later.I was pleased to discover the magical or supernatural elements play a larger role than I expected from reading other reviews.
His obsession with Stephen, was particularly odd, and I never felt like I understood it's connection to Norrell and Strange.Clarke does sprinkle gentle humor throughout the story that occasionally caused twitters or giggles.
A little after this you realize you might not have to go to the next room as you know what to expect from it, but you still struggle on.
I looked through a few reviews of the novel and practically none of them mentioned any details of the plot.
I do not think it feels slow because we became used to faster-moving stories in literature; I recalled the works of the two British classics I mentioned in the beginning of the review and the pace of the plot in the majority of their books makes them feel like cheetah compared to this one.
..The government takes the young man to Portugal, to help the Duke of Wellington, (at first not taken seriously, by the unruffled general ) fight the French invaders, crisscrossing that nation and Spain also, fixing roads, confusing the enemy, changing the course of rivers, the bloody battles go on year after bloody year, he, Mr.Strange, becomes immune to the carnage...This fantasy, an alternative history of Britain, is a wonderful fable for anyone interested in magic, makes it seem that it really exist , nevertheless, will entertain and bring pure joy to those people, the grateful readers, that want to be intrigued.
RatingL 4.5 stars
Jonathan Strange & Mr. Norrell is a book that I started out loving, but the middle part dragged so much that I grew impatient for the story to end.
I feel so differently about the two halves of the book that I wish I could issue two Goodreads ratings.Let's start with what I liked about this novel.
(The extensive battle scenes are what started to drag down the book.) The story also involves a spiteful fairy, who likes to steal people away to his kingdom.
This book was a chore! While I liked the story, the writing style was not enjoyable at all for me. Also, I am not really sure why everything happened, what exactly happened, and why it took so many words and pages to tell this story.It started at 5 stars and, as I trudged through the book, there was a slow leak of stars as my interest started to wane. That leak stopped at 2 stars.
Clarke has created an alternate, magical history, in which England had once been divided between north and south, and a temporal and a fairy kingdom.
But in 1807 a person emerges who dares to actually practice magic.
The emergence of a second practical magician presents a challenge, solved in the short term by taking on Jonathan Strange as a student.
The TV adaptation was shown beginning (in the USA anyway) in June 2015Review posted – 10/29/2008Updated and Reposted - 6/19/15Publication date – 9/30/2004=============================EXTRA STUFFI found no personal site for Clarke, nor, FB nor Twitter.
I had too much coffee this morning and my mind is racing like a sports car driven by Danica Patrick.This book does kind of hit several literary sweet spots with me: Historical Fiction (waves to the Duke of Wellington and that walking horn ball poet, Lord Byron), Fantasy and a terrific sense of humor on the part of Susanna Clarke.The skinny: After centuries, English magic - long dormant - is being revived by a peevish asshat named Mr. Norrell.
Always the Raven King.Sounds great and it was for the most part, except:This starts off rather slowly – like a rollercoaster that takes its sweet-assed time getting up the first ascent – hanging on Clarke’s wit to keep the plot moving along.
This slow burn historical fantasy (it really isn't a proper historical fantasy -- it's really told much more as a straight historical and the fantasy is bonus) is one of the best novels I've read -- ever.
It's a novel meant to be savored over the course of a month, not rushed through -- so that you can properly appreciate the rush of the climax.***wondering why all my reviews are five stars?
Because I'm only reviewing my favorite books -- not every book I read.
Consider a novel's presence on my Goodreads bookshelf as a hearty endorsement.
I can't believe I just said "hearty." It sounds like a stew.****
Re-read, 11/11/18:The only real review for this book is one that fully experiences it from the inside.
In other words, take the roads, listen to the rocks, and above all, DON'T TRUST THE FARIES.This was a classic when I first read it and it's just as good on any re-read.
:) It will stand the test of time.Let's fight with Wellington and defeat Napoleon with magic!
Let's get into major trouble, get majorly paranoid, and do it with arrogance and style!Above all, this is a buddy novel that starts really rocky, continues worse, ends in mistrust, and yet, is quintessentially English.
:)Brilliant book.
Tired of your workaday lives,Need to get away for a while?Come, sit a spellLet Susanna tell you a story.We go to England in the 1800’s, a time of the Napoleonic Wars, a time when most people believe magic to be dead in England.
I watched the birds as they came to my feeder and fell away, to lost-hope house and all the mirrors of the world, utterly enchanted, and I believed.It was as if a door had opened somewhere.
But Drawlight and the lady did not appear in the mirror room at all.
Nope, nope, nope. DNF at 68%. The act of reading has become a chore, a sensation that cannot be condoned or perpetuated.It's been six hundred and eighty pages, and this book has yet to enthrall or surprise. The character motives baffle, the fantasy elements are uneven, the tone is dry and the story uneventful. Writing a tome of this magnitude is no small feat, but it's achieved to greater effect by Jonathan Stroud in his marvelous book, The Amulet of Samarkand, which I would leap to recommend while warning bookworms to steer clear of this cumbersome book.
This truly is not a book for everyone.But if you read and were intrigued by my sprawling summary, and like reading things in a 19th century style or pastiche, and enjoy fantasy but don't need it to be as obvious or clear cut as modern fantasy novels typically show it, if you think it might be for you and are ready to commit to the novel's length and slow unfolding and building of events and ideas, then I wholeheartedly encourage you to pick up a paper copy, not least because the sheer number of footnotes would be highly aggravating to read in an e version, and settle yourself into bed or a large armchair or your sofa and begin.Because if Jonathan Strange & Mr Norrell isn't for you, you'll be irritated or wearied by it and put it aside.
to and fro, round england and onto the continent (three times), and then back again, somewhat aimlessly, as if by the vagaries of chance.it's a pantser's novel, i concluded halfway through; reading interviews with the author confirmed my suspicion: she'd just sorta begun and went wherever the hell her story took her.which.you know.at nearly 900 pages, with those bloody footnotes—well.it took her a hell of a lot of places, i can tell you.so i'm unhappy about the superficial structure of the thing; the indulgence of all the unnecessary foolishness and dead-end mini-stories in it; the sense that the hand at the tiller had no idea where this was all going and let's just all find out together, shall we?but.also.really good, really sharp observations on how people work, and what motivates them, and how they fuck themselves up.it's just that...
Jonathan Strange and Mr Norrell is Susanna Clarke's bestselling Fantasy History Novel.
These are all just a handful of the real (and created) adjectives possible to throw at this tome.
Were one to enter into an adjective war this book would defeat them hands down.
And having done so would commence to bury  in a pile of prose so powerful that I would be diabolically destroyed.Jonathan Strange and Mr Norrell is a hauntingly beautiful book.
She wasn't simply writing but creating a world with such clarity.
You can read it  right here at my Jonathan Strange and Mr Norrell Review.
And now we have the great year of Proust...it may be some time before these things are said, time being what it is, holidays being what they are, and my thoughts being scattered as usual.So perhaps it's best to attempt the following:Comparisons with Austen are appropriate for the social commentary and the (at times gently and perhaps not so gently snide) remarks the narrator makes about the actions of the characters.
At page 246, I'm throwing the towel in on this one.
I'm just not interested enough to find out what happens in the next 500 pages or so.
I have so many other books screaming for my attention.
Now this book is classified as fantasy and I don't usually read this genre.
That's not to say I have never enjoyed a fantasy novel - I have in fact enjoyed a handful.
In fact, The Hobbit is one of my favorite books of all time.
I felt some real magic deep down while reading that book.
I experienced a more meaningful connection with those books.
Considering the "society" of magicians he encounters right at the beginning (a bunch of fools, mostly), I completely understand why and supported his claim.He is a bookworm par excellence as can be seen much later when his pupil, the also titular Jonathan Strange, is sent to aid Lord Wellington in the war against Bonaparte and Norrell is supposed to give him 40 of his books to which he cries out in terror (he is told by a member of the government that sacrifices must be made in times of war to which he exclaims "Yes yes, but FORTY!").
