https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1051097.Until_Proven_Guilty
Detective J.P. Beaumont (Beau) is a Seattle homicide cop who's recently acquired a new partner, Detective Peters.
As the story opens Beaumont and Peters are assigned the case of a strangled five-year-old girl named Angela Barstogi.
It turns out the woman, named Anne Corley, is a wealthy widow who travels across the country to attend children's funerals because her sister died as a child.
Beau thinks little Angela's murderer might be a cult member but he's frustrated by the apparent lack of evidence.
.The mystery part of the book stalls at this point - about halfway into the book - and Beau's romance with Anne takes over.
Because I respect the opinion of two of my librarian friends who love J.A. Jance's J.P Beaumont Series, I decided it was time to give one a try.
Just as Beaumont says of his new partner, Peters "There's so much to learn before you can function as a team., I'm getting to know this new character.
The cult though, is just the beginning of what proves to be an interesting first venture in Beaumont's career.
Besides a well plotted mystery, characters that come alive on the page, the Seattle backdrop proves an interesting setting.
The mystery part of this was good, but it was derailed by an unlikely romance that was featured more than I would have liked. I am not a romance fan and I don't like it when the book goes off on a tangent!Four stars for mystery and two stars for romance averages a three star read.
She wore a red dress.That's just...stupid.
Love at first sight?
But the dreaded "girl walks into your homicide case and you fall in love" scenario?
But since this is the first in the series with J.P., I will look for the next one to see if he gets any smarter.A bright note in the book is J.P.'s brand new partner, who has a very interesting backstory.
Or maybe J.P. will be like Murphy Brown and get a new partner each book.
While the former was different due to its setting in Arizona tribal lands and its use of tribal legends, Until Proven Guilty is a more straight-forward detective novel and high on the adrenaline meter.
I enjoyed the straight-forward style and Jance pulls off a nice thriller even if she tends to stretch my tolerance for coincidences a bit.
In fact, I wasn't sure he was male until about a fifth of the way through the book when he gets the hots for a hot blonde.
Nonetheless, this is an above average thriller that encourages me to read the rest of the J.
P. Beaumont novels.
It's more like a romance novel--strike that, Disney fairy tale with descriptions of sex and mentions and actions of murder and domestic abuse--and a sad ending, OF COURSE.Somebody on Goodreads noticed that J.P. behaved and thought like a woman. I think that person was right, and that fact makes the narration . . . not work. I got tired of learning about why J.P. did weird things, like start his dishwasher once a week whether there were dishes or not. Boring details like that. I'm all for details, honestly, but the author does not wield them well in this book.
If this had been the first JP Beaumont book I'd read, it would have been the last.
One of the least believable mystery books I've read. A guy from the phone company solves the mystery but the gullible detective is too busy marrying a woman he's only known for a week to call the guy back. Total drivel!
Some names appear on the bestseller lists and every once in a while I decide to give a new author a shot hoping to discover somebody new and fresh.
I have no illusions almost inevitably it falls into the guilty pleasure pile at best.
But this book stunned me!
I was able to finish the book because I was fascinated by the possibility that I might be reading the worst piece fiction ever created.
There is no excuse for this book to exist.
Anyone who had anything to do with this book should consider shock therapy.
This is not a detective/mystery story, it's a gag-inducing, shut off your brain and shake your head at the stupidity, love at first sight crap story.
The detective instantly falls head over heels in love with a rich woman in a red dress and red car who magically appears at a funeral.
First thing this hardened detective does?
Confirmation that this was some kind of teenage fantasy came in the sex scenes which read like the old romance books with sentences like "we came together and I was complete" WTF???What rubbish, what utter total complete rubbish!
I'm not sure if I can try reading another of these books, even though so many seem to love them.
. *groan* .
in comes this very stupid love interest.
I groaned every time they had a conversation or "more".
Seems like the love interest was some kind of fantasy fulfillment for the author and I absolutely hate that in a book especially when it doesn't seem to enhance the narrative.
Plus, I thought we were trying to solve a crime and I was hoping for some actual detective work, of which there was none.
This book is ridiculous. A supposedly smart detective marries a woman one week after meeting her despite the fact that there are practically BRIGHT NEON SIGNS pointing to her as the murderer he's looking for. I can hold my disbelief to a certain extent when the story is good but even I have my limits, and the story wasn't very good here. And my God, the sex scenes! I felt genuinely embarrassed for the author if that's what she thinks sex is.
Although the narrator is a man, the book is obviously written by a woman, especially the sex scenes. I've read another one of her books that was much better. The book starts out well with the murder of a child and a religious cult but the appearance of the love interest ruins it, I think. The child's murderer appears out of nowhere with little or no preparation.
I don't know about this series if this is the first book.
Beaumont marries a lady only knowing her for a month while in the middle of a homicide of a child.
That is as ridiculous as it sounds!
But none prevailed even with the discovery of the the person who murdered the child was revealed and captured.
I mean, this character has a series of books written after this I wonder if they are better than this starter.
The question I have to ask myself is am I willing to invest my precious reading time with another Beaumont book.
I've read and enjoyed many of J.A. Jance's series with Johanna Brady. These are located in southern Arizona, a place I'm familiar with as I have family that live in that area. This is my first of Jance's series featuring J.P. Beaumont, a police detective in the Seattle area. Beaumont is a more hard-boiled character, and the writing is much steamier. That's fine with me. I like Jance's ability to weave a good mystery.
This is the first book in J.A. Jance's J.P. Beaumont series.
I've already been reading her Joanna Brady and Ali Reynolds mysteries, set in Arizona, and I'm delighted to find that this series, set in Seattle, looks to be just as enjoyable as the others.
I've heard that it's important to read the series in order, and after finishing this book, I can see why, as we find out who Anne Corley is and how homicide detective Beaumont can afford to live the way he does.
It was a terrific read, with a fascinating protagonist, and I'm definitely going to continue with the series.
This book was a bit difficult to get into.
It seemed dated but i didnt read any reference of dates.
I picked up this book for $1 on Nook and it was listed on B&N's "Top Choice" so I figured, why not?
Half way thru is when i figured out that it was published in 1985!!!!!
Now i understood the reason it was dated.
The story was good, and since it centered around a polygamist cult, I just couldnt help myself!
The story was like watching an episode of SVU or CSI so it kept my interest.
There is sexual content and language.
This started out great, maintained a high "really good"-- then plunged into the land of "piece of crap" in the last 40 pages or so.It's a mystery; the reader, with any good mystery, should have a chance of solving the mystery before the characters do. They should be given the necessary information, then left to it, just like the characters.Instead, Jance took the "last second revelation" path, and it turned out to be a character who was never even a suspect until that last second.Dreck. Won't be reading any more by that author.

i think this is the first in the j. p. beaumont series. i've read some, including books from later in the series. from reading early and late, it seems this one series where the character develops over the series into a deeper, more complex character. that makes reading each new book, adds character development as well as a new plot. i will continue to seek out and read other books in the series.
I found this book way too predictable, I mean come on, a strange woman in a red dress shows up at the funeral and throws hereself at the detective and we are not supposed to know that she is the bad guy? Seriously? And what about the fact that there was really very little investigating going on. It was formulaic, it had no depth whatsoever and the main character was not even that interesting.
Hmmm... a $1 NookBook and it wasn't worth much more. I guess it was written in 1985, so maybe the books written later in the series are better??? What can I say? I read it, it wasn't great and i wouldn't tell me friends to read it.
P.” The easy conversational style gives the reader the feeling of sitting with J.P. chatting, drinking MacNaughton's, looking out at the Seattle skyline, and sharing memories of his years as a homicide detective.
Sometimes as we chat, he reflects on his actions with comments such as “I should have known that my day would not go well.” He tells readers the disturbing story of a five-year old murdered child and the search for her killer.
He makes this a personal search, both for him and for us readers.
When Seattle Detective JP Beaumont and his partner Ron Peters first arrrived at the scene of the crime of young Angela Barstogi's death.
Then a double homicide had happened at the church, when both Suzanne and the cult leader had wound up dead.
While all eyes pointed toward Andrew Carstogi, Suzanne's ex who's been ex-communicated and declared "Dead" in that church, he seemed to be the most likely suspect.
When someone else wound up dead and the heat is turned up, it was up to JP to put the screws on the killer...
First installment published in 1985 of what is now a very long series, Until Proven Guilty had everything to seduce me: a solid main character, a linear plot with a single point of view, a simple and pleasant style, a good plot.I was however very surprised by the romantic turn that takes the novel rather quickly, and a little disappointed by an end that is too predictable. (And not so credible in regard of consequences to Beaumont's career.)However the pleasure of reading is at the rendezvous, and I will certainly read other books of the author.
I absolutely LOVE all the J.A. Jance novels.
But realize that part of the reason for my enthusiasm is that I lived in Seattle during the seventies and really identify with the places in which she sets here story.
My advice to a prospective reader is to print out a list of her novels featuring J.
P. Beaumont and begin your reading with the very first book, the second one next and so on.
She builds her characters and her story lines sequentially, and you will enjoy this book and others more by reading them in order.
The characters are fun to watch develop as well as the plot.
Seattle Homicide Detective J.P. Beaumont has a new partner as he investigates a young girl's murder and the cult that she was part of. A mysterious woman enters his life as his feud with an old fraternity brother turned reporter continues. Jance presents us with another fast paced mystery in her gripping fashion.
Ok mystery, but I'm not sure I liked the main character. Might give another book from the series a chance.
Meh. I really enjoyed Desert Heat by JA Janice, but this was weak. Not sure I’ll continue this series.
This started out a little rough as a basic cliche detective story. I like how it wrapped everything up and I'm excited to see where things go with the series.
