https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/204042.Naruto_Vol_01
naruto himself is pretty annoying; always doing stupid shit to get attention and bragging that he is going to be the most awesome ninja of all time, but he just doesn't have the skills to back it up.
i don't care about his fox-tummy, i just got annoyed by his loudmouth antics.and reading "backwards" kind of makes me seasick.
so it kind of is a shame she doesn't have big knockers, cuz now she can't even become a high-end stripper when she realizes she is a dumb, shitty, ninja.i feel like this lack of manga-interest might be a side effect of being old and crotchety and "get-off-my-lawn" and all that, but that's just the way it is, wackos!
I'm pretty much a die hard fan of this series, and now that it's done, I'm sad.For the sake of my aching heart, I'm going to reread it again and revel in its moments of light-heartedness, its pain, its desperate hope.Well, there was a bit of pain in the first volume, a lot of light-heartedness, and a taste of the promise to come.
The nine-tailed demon fox is still far off on the horizon, but for now, we've got cute character exploration and distant goals.
but it's the characters that make it really shine.
Buddy read with the inimitable Aja.An interesting start to my Manga career. I'll write more after volume 2...
She’s a female ninja but because she’s a girl she’s obsessed with love and romance, like eeeeevery girl, riiiiight?!
Ugh. The whole doppelganger thing is weird – literally producing copies of yourself doesn’t seem like a ninja skill.
Naruto vs the ninja teacher is a bit jerky with the panel transitions – they’re not as fluid or well-paced as Akira Toriyama’s near-flawless Dragon Ball – and Kishimoto has to go back to certain scenes and explain with diagrams what happened in them, which isn’t great.
Nothing matters until this manga has Sabaku no Gaara.He alone is worth 5 stars.
I resisted reading this for a long time because I was determined not to succumb to another one of my daughter's crazes (Pokemon -yes, I'm a 40 year old Pokemon Master, and Fruits Basket -wasn't as crazy about that one.
A little too emo for my taste.)But this Naruto is well worth a read.
I quickly grew to care for spunky, spazzy, orphaned Naruto and his shinobi-in-training classmates.
They are oddly focused for 12-year-olds though, and the trials they face are arduous and their implications philosophical.
Maybe this goes over the heads of junkfood-eating, short attention span American kids and they just like the action and the cool drawings.
This is the only manga that has ever hit me emotionally like a train on multiple occasions.
I think he would have done a better job with a small break to bring his thoughts together (Good luck doing that with all the Shonen Jump pressure to end the series).
A small touch of “invisible” romance that came to fruition in the ending of the manga was damn worth it.
What I really loved about this manga above all else were the characters of this series.
And I am really thankful for having the opportunity to read this manga.
The nostalgia is killing me <3
The quality of this level of story-telling is so superior to anything I've read before.
This is not to say people aren't still telling good great stories here.
Indeed, Naruto is a way of life, one that I readily embrace!Believe it!(This is the first manga I've ever read.
The story is very powerful and has made me a fan for life of Masashi Kishimoto.
The anime is pretty great and now that I've read the first volume of the manga I can say that, at least as far as the first few episodes are concerned, it stays pretty true to the manga.
(Like a doofus I accidentally deleted my review of this. Fortunately I saved a copy.) "Once appeared a nine tail demon fox, its might tails could crumble mountains and cause tsunamis." "To fight the demon the people assembled all the shinobi of the village. One brave shinobi was able to seal it the demon, but because of that he lost his life. That shinobi was called the 4th Hokage." Welcome to the wonderful world of Naruto. The title character Naruto is the protagonist of the series. He's an orp
"Once appeared a nine tail demon fox, its might tails could crumble mountains and cause tsunamis." "To fight the demon the people assembled all the shinobi of the village.
One brave shinobi was able to seal it the demon, but because of that he lost his life.
That shinobi was called the 4th Hokage."
Welcome to the wonderful world of Naruto.
The title character Naruto is the protagonist of the series.
He's an orphan, outcast, and surprisingly loves alone (not sure how the last part works and I've read the whole series).
I was a big fan of the anime throughout adolescence and into early adulthood. I can’t believe it took me this long to start the manga.
Naruto, Vol. 01: The Tests of the Ninja (Naruto, #1), Masashi Kishimoto
Now I'm going to review not this volume but Naruto as a whole, 'kay? Get it?So Naruto, what can I say, I'm obsessed with the anime, and since my cousin was like spoiling things, like Sasuke kills Hitachi but Hitachi was not a bad guy blah blah blah...So I'm like Sasuke what? Hitachi what? So my curiosity finally got me and then my cousin recommend this site onemanga wherein you can read manga scans for free and then I started to read not the beginning of the series because it's too long and it
Get it?So Naruto, what can I say, I'm obsessed with the anime, and since my cousin was like spoiling things, like Sasuke kills Hitachi but Hitachi was not a bad guy blah blah blah...So I'm like Sasuke what?
So I started to read the Shippuuden (don't know if I spelled it right) and then yeah I was hooked!I was liked reading from morning till midnight and my mom was like, "Masisira yung computer sa ginagawa mo!" (translation: something like I'm gonna make the computer destroyed or whatever).Yeah I'm obsessed with it, so I recommend it, I only read this because of Sasuke (love love him)PS:Hey I wrote a fanfic for Naruto, read it here: My Brother is a Narutard
كانت أروع أيام تلك التي عشتها مع عالم ناروتو, أيام الطفولة ,أيام المراهقة, وأيام النضوج الفكري.طالما
I never had any plans on reading Naruto. I'd heard about it and to me, it did not sound that great. During the first book, I thought it was really boring. As I got further into the series, I started finding it more enjoyable. The characters are all unique. The drawings aren't bad. The plot is enjoyable. I would recommend it to anyone who's addicted to ninja or action stuff.
A major problem with most shonen series is that they throw in a huge number of characters and then have no time (or talent) to develop them.
It had far less secondary characters and thus far more time to develop them, without dragging the story with unimportant side stories, as Naruto did.
It was also the arc to tell us the basic use of the ninja villages and how cruel the powerful can be to the weak.
Besides the introduction of some interesting characters, most of it was a dragged out battle with lots of flashbacks which had little importance in overall.
I started off watching the anime, after about five minutes into the English adaption I moved onto the Japanese adaption and honestly I was expecting to hate it, mainly because of my hatred for subtitles.
Now I'm a major fan, I watch the anime (Japanese adaption, subtitles don't erk me as they once did) and read the manga every week and I look forward to the next weeks episode and chapter.I love the plot and the emotions that Kishimoto brings to the table.
There are a lot of things in the manga and anime that the characters have gone through that a lot of people can relate to these days.
This its better than anime for me.
This it´s better than anime for me.
No ha estado mal y me he reído en algunas partes pero prefiero otro tipo de mangas.
Review to come
que nostalgia ver al trio junto y tan chiquitos, el momento que conocieron a kakashi y a sakura odiando a naruto, todo quedo taan atrás y bueno aunque ya este avanzada por el anime no puedo no leer el manga de uno de mis animes favoritos y además esta bueno recordar. A ver cuanto me lleva terminarlo....
Having watched the entire anime during my childhood and my adult years, reading this manga brought me back memories when I first started watching it and I am so happy that I have already started reading the manga as well. During the whole anime, it hit me emotionally like a train on multiple occasions. If I could give it 6 stars I would do it in a heartbeat. Best anime ever.
I started Naruto with the anime and I'm just in love with the fact that the anime is JUST LIKE the manga.
My 70 year old GRANDPA liked watching Naruto.Then, in 4th grade, the new girl in my class (that soon became one of my close friends) was totally obsessed with Naruto, and she pressured me to try it out.
I didn't budge an inch until the 5th grade, when I decided to check out a Naruto DVD.I watched THE FIRST EPISODE, and that's when I fell.I. LOVE THIS SERIES!!!!!
Out of every shounen manga/anime I've watched, Naruto is the top shounen series that I will always love, forever and ever!!!
--- Naruto 1-72 ---Plot: Naik turun maju maju mundur maju.Gambar: Ok.Penokohan: Terlalu banyak tokoh yang likeable dan lovable.Oh ya ampun!
Ini salah satu judul komik terpanjang yang pernah saya ikuti.
Tentu saja, ada yang suka dan tidak suka.
Oh-o, tentu saja saya akan berdiri di salah satu barisan terdepan dan menyuarakan kalau saya suka Naruto^^.
Tapi tidak sedikit yang berbekas dengan cerita yang tragis.
Malah ini salah satu komik yang selalu bisa bikin saya menangis saat ada tokohnya yang mati (haha).
Tapi karena plotnya tertuju pada satu hal, paling tidak syukurlah bisa menuntaskan apa yang dari awal ditujukan.
Tapi melebihi kedua tokoh ini, saya selalu luluh dengan kemunculan kyubi fhuahahaa^^.[9/10]
note:i havent read it....just religiously watched for many years.
ahhhhhh i was (and still am to a degree) obsessed with naruto they were the best years of my life.
we cried, we laughed, we felt all the emotions watching it.
after being up-to-date with the episodes of naruto shippuden (new episodes were still coming out) i got restless and read the story as it slowly began to get published.
only last year the final episode of naruto shippuden came.
hahahah i cried while watching the whole thing it felt like i was closing a part of my life away.
I've decided to finally pick up the Naruto manga, since it has finally reached it's end!
I identify myself with Naruto a lot, when I was younger I was a troublemaker who loved pranking - mostly to get people's attention.The fact that Naruto has the Nine-Tail fox demon inside of him still gives me the chills.This is such an epic story with amazing characters, Kakashi (my hubbie), I missed you!
Also Sakura is still so fucking annoying (that definitely hasn't changed), and I just dread the fact that she's going to annoy me so much more as this story goes.
This was actually really good. I've always been intimated when it comes to the three big Manga series (Naruto, Bleach, & One Piece) so when I was required to read a manga for one of my classes I got really excited. Naruto is an interesting and hilarious character and I really enjoyed his confidence despite the fact that everybody pretty much hated him. The final scene which I won't go into for spoiler reasons had me laughing out loud and I genuinely can't wait to see where the rest of the series although it may take me a while.
This is going to be a great challenge. I haven't read a manga this long, but it makes sense to read one of the mangas that started the whole anime/manga/japan love for me! It's bringing a lot of memories already (I watched a loooot of the show), and even though I was spoiled for the ending, I feel like I'm going to enjoy this. PS: I cringe every time I read Naurto's famous line, "I'm going to be Hokage." I don't know why, maybe because he says it so damn much? :D
4 Stars Fun, quick, full of action and ninjas! What else would you ask for? hahahaThis is my first time reading naruto, besides I haven't watch the tv series, so it is my first time with this manga. Altough it took me a little while to be able to read without getting confused in the order of reading. I am excited to continue :)
pretty good
