https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/13747.Julie_and_Julia
it seemed so simple, and so brilliant and so the perfect type of book for me, i remember thinking as i perused--i forget what, probably the new york times--and saw a reference to julie powell's julie and julia project.a woman who dedicated her year to learning how to cook.like me.
this, i rationalized, may have been because i had started the book all over again from the beginning instead of merely picking up where i left off, giving all of the original prejudices a chance to rear their heads again.
By Wednesday, you'd long for a salad and maybe a refreshing sorbet, but it would yet another ersatz burger with underdone and slightly wilted fries.Julia Child is, for non-Americans, not much more than a name than some people might recognise but the imagined episodes of her life in the book are teasing and delicious.
And rereading and editing this review again, I am still so distraught that I am going to have to finish the bottle of chocolate Baileys and hope I feel better then.Kind of rewritten 4 Jan 2016
(I smell a divorce cooking.) In short, she is the loud girl we all wish would shut the fuck up.She also started a year-long cooking/blog project -- an idea given to her and set up by the very husband she treats like garbage -- to cook every recipe from Julia Child's Mastering the Art of French Cooking.
She will of course tell us about the cat hair in the kitchen and in the food, along with the dead mice for her snake shoved in the same bag as her cooking ingredients.
I read the damn book and I couldn't even tell you.)So anyway, Powell starts working her way through Julia Child's cookbook, keeping a blog about her progress.
2002 was a simpler time.) As many reviewers have pointed out, the blog-to-memoir transition was done pretty clumsily, with scenes happening out of sequence and a nonsensical structure - Powell will start a chapter about some recipe she was working on, and then break for a lengthy flashback that has almost no relation to the beginning of the chapter.
Julie never mentions how many hours she actually works in a week at her "oh pity me, the lowly secretary who still makes enough money to live in New York and buy enough food to cook every single recipe in the Julia Child MtAoFC cookbook" job, but I honestly have a very difficult time believing that she worked full time, commuted, did the grocery shopping, cooked every single recipe in the book, wrote a blog, and yet still had time to watch Buffy the Vampire Slayer.
Completely and utterly disappointing.I was so in love with the idea that Julie came up with: to recreate each of the 524 recipes in Julia Child's Mastering the Art of French Cooking.
I never had read her blog before, and my expectations for the book were high.Unfortunately, Julie is a completely repulsive, unappealing and vulgar human being.
If it hadn't been for my fascination with food and my love of Julia Child, I would have stopped reading (which is pretty rare for me).The book isn't even about the cooking or Julia, not really, anyway.
Please tell me how cooking an entire Julia Child cookbook will improve your life.
Actually, don't, because that is the premise for this book and it sucked.Oh, and reading about her husband was cringe-worthy.
Hey guy, maybe when your balls finally descend from your body cavity you can write a book about that.
Then both you and your wife can have lame books published.
For the sake of fair reviewing, I only made it through just over half of this before I became too repulsed to read on.
So maybe it turns out awesome.
Maybe she gets all the recipes cooked.
Maybe her husband and her friends actually become interesting.
What a disapointment. I thought it would be a fun read, someone working through a life crisis by cooking their way through Mastering the Art of French Cooking Volume 1, but I threw the book in the trash after reading the first few chapters and thumbing through the rest. The profanity, baseness and the f-bombs are inappropriate and don't add anything to the content.
Powell repeatedly talks (at length) about the poor state of the house, what with cat hairs everywhere, thick layers of dust on everything, fleets of flies, maggots in the kitchen where you're cooking on a daily basis, but God forbid she actually does something about it.
Sure, Powell spends quite some time in the kitchen, but she barely cooks.
Powell actually has no chill, and the last place she should spend time in is the kitchen.
Julie disappointed me.
I have a hard time imagining how I would ever like her in person.
I certainly don't in print.By the end, though, when she finds out that Julia Child doesn't like her, I felt sorry for her.
And she's not a total loss---she worships Buffy the Vampire Slayer *almost* as much as I do.I get the impression that when she undertook the project Julie was a deeply depressed girl who was trying to lose herself in the details of the challenge.
(Find yourself, eat great food, AND get a book deal out of it!) But she failed to evidence significant questioning or growth.
I think there's an unfortunate trend that people follow these days, particularly women, to verbally criticize themselves in a hyper self-aware manner, as if recounting all of their faults (real or imagined)will not only amuse the listener, but prove that they are stoic-even good humored-about being the biggest, fattest, ugliest, ding battiest failures to ever grace the earth.
I'm doomed..."Now I like a little self-deprecation every now and again, but this book is founded entirely on the author's insecurities, which are mostly unfounded.
Perhaps it's because she based this book on her blog, which REALLY lends itself to this kind of meta humor, but I'm sooooo sick of it.
Her topic is certainly a rich one—the processes of making gelatin from actual calves’ feet or flaying a lobster alive while feeling a generous dose of liberal guilt certainly offer many opportunities for colorful commentary.Despite Powell’s detail in discussing some of her greatest disasters while cooking from Childs’ book, she spends significantly less time on general food writing than you’d expect given the theme.
While it was interesting to read how the popularity of her blog snowballed into national news coverage and a book deal, the book ultimately left me with little understanding of how the alchemy of the cooking process worked its magic on the author itself.
The book is written by Julie Powell, about her 1 year self-imposed challenge to cook everything in Julia Child’s Mastering the Art of Fine Cooking.
I instantly connected with the author – she was a Buffy the Vampire fan (the blog was going on during the last season), found the act of preparing food very sensual, and was trying to figure out what to do next with her life.
She blogged almost every day, and not just “I checked Filets to Poisson en Souffle off the list, didn’t puff but tasted good”… no, she went into details about procuring the ingredients, the moods of her husband, her cats, occasional Buffy references, how the food was prepared, what worked, what tasted good, and what didn’t.
I love the concept- the story of the author working her way through Julia Child's Mastering the Art of French Cooking one recipe at a time, skipping nothing.
Ewww eww eww!) As the book wears on, the story becomes less and less about the cooking and more and more about the how much the author hates her government job and her small apartment, the plumbing catastrophes that regularly happein in said apartment and the cast of kooky friends that drop in regularly.
It's obvious the author felt the need to pad the story a bit to make it in full-length book, which I don't think was totally necessary.
Saw the movie - had to read the book.
So far, I have my reservations, but I'm not very far in yet.I read a few more chapters and gave up.
I could not work up any interest in the folks in the book - just didn't care what they did next.
Combine that with the author's potty mouth, and it's back to the Library to find a book worth reading - maybe Mastering the Art of French Cooking by Julia Child.This is one of those rare examples of the movie being a lot better than the book.
Julie Powell was a 29 year-old temp living in the outer boroughs and suffering from late-20s ennui and the kind of despair that comes from hating your career and thinking you should have done more with yourself by now.
On the one hand, Julie Powell is probably more likeable than Liz - more honest in her self-deprecation, and more charming in her witty cynicism.
Point for Julie.On the other hand, Julie's book structure did not work as well as Liz's, though it pains me to say.
I know about 100 ennui-suffering, confused, smart, well-spoken gals hovering around the 30-range; why am I reading Julie Powell's story and not theirs?
I must've really needed this kind of book right about now.
I've actually been hearing a lot about it lately (I'm sure because of the upcoming film), so I figured I'd give it a shot.I loved this.
It kind of showed me it's never too late to really find your passion, and do what you love to do.
God, just typing that makes me feel so lame that I got that much out of this book, when a lot of the time, I'm admittedly pretty snarky...which leads me to another cool quote:"...hard-bitten cynicism leaves one feeling peevish, and too much of it can do lasting damage to your heart."
Na minha opinião, o filme e mais bonito :)
Julie doesn't know what to do with her life, so she manufactures a project...By completing at least one new recipe a day, and blogging about it, she finds herself so consumed that she has little time to obsess about her dead-end job, and her possible infertility.It reminds me a lot of "Rosemary Goes to the Mall," a podcast in which an art instructor makes a project of shopping from and getting a bag from every store in the Mall of America...A pretty good read...
a little embarrassing in the way that I can understand and identify with Julie.
I wanted to like this but Julie Powell just wouldn't let me. Her constant whining and neurotic, self-absorbed personality so grated on me that they undermined the aspects of the book that did appeal to me: cooking and humor. I don't even want to see the movie after reading this, although I do still want to read My Life in France.
Onvan : Julie and Julia: 365 Days, 524 Recipes, 1 Tiny Apartment Kitchen: How One Girl Risked Her Marriage, Her Job, and Her Sanity to Master the Art of Living - Nevisande : Julie Powell - ISBN : 031610969X - ISBN13 : 9780316109697 - Dar 310 Safhe - Saal e Chap : 2005
Never mind that it means she will have to eat things she finds disgusting, feed meals to her friends, family and husband that they find disgusting, and spend money she doesn't have on ingredients she can't find - she apparently just has to do it!Lucky for her, her meaningless obsession turned into a lucrative book deal and even more lucrative movie deal.
Why in the world would someone writing a memoir, with time and a thesaurus and editors on hand, choose to use such a trashy and limited vocabulary in something that will last well beyond their own short life?
I watched the movie when it came out, but I had to read this after getting Mastering the Art of French Cooking for Christmas this year and diving into Julia's recipes.
I can't believe Julie cooked all 500-something recipes in the book (AND in 1 year) because Julia lost me at offal and aspic.
Especially since some of Julia Child's recipes read like the inside of House of Leaves or a choose-your-own-adventure book where you have to keep flipping to other recipes which reference other recipes in order to cook one thing.
In order to give her life some definition,(and blinders to the onset of her 30th birthday) Julie Powell decides to cook every recipe from Julia Child's, Mastering the Art of French Cooking Volume One, within one year.
The book reminded me of Bridget Jones meets, well, Julia Child.
She is candid with her personal life as well as with the results of what became the Julie/Julia project (all documented on Blog of course).
As she explains (and demonstrates) in the book, simplicity does not equate easy.
I am so glad I read this book!
Boy, was I disappointed.This book is a mishmash of anecdotes about Julie Powell's life that spring off of her central narrative without rhyme or reason.
She touts her theater background (and a very strange story about making pie for David Straithairn, or wishing to make pie for him, I'm not really sure) at the same time she whines incessantly about her job.
I wish this book had focused on that, and the stories around shopping for, preparing, and serving those dishes, and less about Julie Powell, hipster blogger.
Julia was a goddess among women. Julie...not so much.
I have wanted to see the movie, Julie and Julia since it was released.
To be honest I had no idea what the movie was even about except for the fact it was in some way about Julia Child.
I have adored Julia Child for a very long time so this is why I was drawn to the movie trailer.
This is one of the funniest things I have read in a long time.
I do talk to recipes as if I am talking to the person that penned it, so it was refreshing to see I was not the only one!One does not need to know how to cook to find this book a real gem of a read.
Julie Powell is obviously a literate person with, at times, wide perspectives and the capacity for reflective thought, plus a witty sense of humor when it comes to dissing Republicans, all highly admirable qualities.
We will have to see if the movie achieves what the book could not.I have to say that for someone as whiny as Ms. Powell was in her late 20s and during the Julie/Julia project, she was a hell of a hard worker and she has inspired me (NOT a 29-year old energetic young woman with an amazing able-bodied husband, but a middle-aged, chronically fatigued woman with an amazing disabled husband) to whine less, get to work on time more, and fix a real meal for dinner!
Love Julia Child, DISLIKED this book.
Her tone was self-absorbed, and she pulled that thing in the beginning of the book that was like "this is the true story of my project.
I mean, I have a husband who has stood by me, encourages my projects, does the dishes, and sits through my meltdowns, but it only makes me like him more, and want to try harder.
To which I say, BS- Julia Child doesn't like it, end of story.
This was a book that I finished, but didn't really enjoy.I can appreciate that Julia Child's Mastering the Art of French Cooking came along at just the the right time in Julie Powell's life and I can appreciate the difficulty of rounding up Julia's ingredients, like canned onions and marrow bones and I can appreciate the frustration of working in a depressing, post-September 11th setting.But I could not appreciate the casual mentions of sticky, filthy, cat-hair covered counters and reeking body odor.
for cooking her way through a cultural landmark cookbook.But I don't think I'll be seeking out any more Julie Powell.
