https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/258108.The_Faerie_Queene_Book_One
This was a read for university.
This wasn't actually a bad read.
I didn't mind the story at all, and I could see the meaningfulness of it.
I didn't mind the characters and found it to be a realistic fantasy story which a deeper meaning to it about shaping someone into being virtuous and brave and what a man should be.
The language wasn't too difficult to read, but it took some brainpower.
It's not an 'easy' read.
However, it's been crafted with so much care, to be able to tell such a story with this strict rhyme and meter applied.
Of all of the classic English literature that I have read, The Faerie Queene by Edmund Spenser is among my favorites.
The main story is of the Redcrosse Knight and his lady love Una, a princess who has asked her betrothed to rid the kingdom of a terrible dragon.
My favorite part of the story is the Redcrosse Knight's experiences in the House of Pride.
Overall, this is a rich allegorical tale full of knights, princesses, and evil creatures of myth and legend all written in a beautifully constructed verse that flows wonderfully.
I haven't read any of the other books of the Faerie Queene, but Book 1 was fantastic.
Note: I read the Penguin unabridged Edition's Book One, not this edition.I am truly, honestly amazed that this has not been made into a movie, despite being an allegory.
The archaic language may be an impediment to some [the edition I read even retained the original spelling!
How fun it was figuring out that eyen meant eyes; that wasn't even the most difficult word in there] but i felt like it gave an even more exciting quality to it.Spenser's skill at rhyme is also unmatched.
That said, it took me probably over a year to read.
Or, better yet, Faerie Tale.
I feel like it's cheating to know that the Lion represents Natural Law, but it does help.
Definitely one of the authors I should read each year up with Lewis, Tolkien, and, more closely, Shakespeare.I have mixed feelings about Maynard.
I sometimes wonder if I would be reading this faster and getting more out of it.
He's at his best at modernizing and giving definitions to words, especially words we  think  we know.
He's at his worst when giving audience reactions.
Still, if it gets people into Faerie Queene, more power to it.
Well … "read"(Also, I love Tolkien but why do people think they have to use that love to make me feel guilty about not wanting to read this entire story? Urgh, literature is so intertextual, it's infuriating sometimes.) (But, like, it's also really, really cool.) (I'm just not that much into old poetry about some knight wanting to have sex with … whomever really - uhm, and Redcrosse is supposed to be the virtue of Holiness? haha, wait, I get it now) (Am kinda intrigued by the female knight in book 3, though.)
Read for my 16th Century Literature class at University3 starsI didn’t actually hate this and it wasn’t a bad read. I really did like the story, messy and humorous as it was. But I think that was the appeal for me. It was just soooo long. And I found myself drifting so much while reading. Though the language wasn’t overly hard to follow, it need take time and concentration. I appreciate this piece, truly. It's meaningful and has all the elements of adventure and romance. Its no trouble to see why The Faerie Queene is as impactful as it is.
This edition of Spenser's epic poem is excellent for anyone wanting to read it without committing to reading its several books.
The editor elucidates this beautiful work through explanatory notes and essays.
He describes the historical context and importance of Spenser, clarifies the language, identifies allusions, and reveals Spenser's multifaceted allegory -- the Faerie Queene's religious and political meanings.
The editor also provides thought-provoking questions and discussions.
This edition is well-worth rereading and study.Spenser's vivid words paint a medieval fantasy that is second to none.
Horrible beasts, fire-breathing dragons, battling knights, and fair queens play out moral, religious, and political struggles.
This is the preferred edition. Annotations are very helpful. Makes it accessible to the younger reader.
whoops yeah finished this weeks ago and it’s a lot of fun and i might actually get the entire bindup cause this was one of Tolkien’s main inspirations and is hella epic
Well, like most things, you don't learn to 'raft' dragon heads without practice, discipline and testing.
Spencer has depth in another way: a person of good character or high standards is always more interesting and worthy of respect (you value and look forward to their company) than someone who isn't: stories are the same.This edition was helpful, because Spencer can be hard-going for an 'ineddicated indiwidual' like me (those v's and u's may be the death of me) and the often humorous footnotes pulled out things I wouldn't otherwise know.
As hard as this was to read it was so worth it. Just fantastic.
When I was in 10th grade, we all had to memorize the opening stanzas of Canterbury Tales in Middle English and recite them in front of the class and I harkened back to those happy days when I read this book.
I found myself using whatsapp voice recorder function to send stanzas to my friends so they could revel in Spenser's mastery of the English language whether they wanted to or not.
The other thing I loved about this book was the religious allegory that luckily the notes of this fine edition did an excellent job at highlighting for me.
Spenser is far more deserving of attention than he is.
I read a majority of the twelves cantos for my Brit Lit class, and found them mesmerizing.
Spenser should be read in classes far more often than Chaucer should.
Bravo.2nd read: This is one of those weird, genteel poetry epics that you have to read for class (more than once), but it somehow manages to be more awesome the second time than it was the first.
Of course, this time I read all 12 Cantos in their entirety, so I wasn't missing anything, but still.
Spenser's vocabulary seems to sometimes be more abundant than that of Shakespeare's, which makes the work linguistically rich in a way that seems sometimes even to outshine the Bard himself, because the number of believable rhymes he is able to create so consistently.The dexterity of Spenser's rhyme is also subtle enough to create laughter at the same time where it plays out a beautiful or suspenseful scene.
Mixing in laughter with intelligent thoughts or rich, complex imagery is probably the most difficult kind of art to achieve, which makes this work all the more special.
For summer book club we are reading books 1 and 2 from "The Faerie Queene" by Edmund Spenser. Roy Maynard has taken the first book of FQ and made it more accessible through more modern spelling and hilarious commentary. Already I am enjoying the book and beginning to understand why FQ is so wonderful and important. Many many kudos to Mr. Maynard for providing the exceptional foundation for reading FQ. I would have had a much more difficult time if not for this book. I wish he would continue writing for the rest of FQ's books!
This book has everything: Romance, chivalry, satyrs, giants, dragons, religious symbolism, and courage in the face of temptation. All of these things would make a great film if it was made by the right person. Since that person does not come very often, I would be happy to only have this book without a film adaptation as opposed to this book with a film adaptation which excludes and alters details.
A difficult classic to read because even in his time period (Elizabethan) he wrote in an older English. Roy Maynard's commentary and helps are welcome when you don't have an English professor in the house. I read it to one of our teens and now I'm reading it for the second time to another child and it gets easier and more enjoyable the more I read it. It is really growing on me. Spencer's Faerie Queene is one of C. S. Lewis's favorite books. He read it as a boy. I'm impressed.
This is actually a great story, even with all the morality and religious undertones, it is really well written, and I am really happy I had to read this for class. Will definitely check out more of the Fairie Quene later!The style is amazing, how can someone write a long story in poem form, with the stanzas always the same, with both end-rhyme and alliteration? And it is also really good to see where some inspiration for contemporary books must have come from.
The Faerie Queen is a beautiful story and worth the read in any version. But Roy Maynard's adaptation is amazing. His explanations of terminology and cultural/historical references are brilliant and fill in many of the pieces modern American readers often miss in reading Spenser's work. In addition to being helpful, Maynard's footnotes are entertaining. It's worth reading this version for the footnotes alone.
This is the first book of Edmund Spenser's Faerie Queene, with modernized spelling and difficult vocabulary glossed. There are annotations as well, which range from helpful to cutesy, and short exercises at the end of the cantos for scholastic use. As for Spenser himself, what more can one say than what C. S. Lewis said: "To read him is to grow in mental health"?
I really enjoyed this story--particularly the epic battle at the end! This rendition with notes and explanations by Roy Maynard helped me to understand and appreciate the story of the Redcross Knight and Una better than ever before. I recommend it to anyone interested in The Fairie Queen.
[Short review from memory to keep track until I re-read at a later date](Epic poem; used mostly as reference. Generic Arthurian hero trope. Hel. Only read the first book? Should buy in paperback.)
Good stuff, of course.
holy cow, if he mentioned Phoebus one more time....
A nice readable edition of Book 1 of The Faerie Queene. No scholarly notes though (which may help with the readability...
This is an amazing book! It didn't take me long to see why C.S. Lewis loved this book so much and notice the parallels between his works and this book.
At the start of this semester, one of my professors sent out an email about a reading group she was hoping to start in which we would all come together once a week to discuss one canto of Spenser's Faerie Queene.
I had read Book Three of the Faerie Queene with her in class last semester, but I had not particularly liked it.
I had chills reading it, absolute chills.For those of you looking for a quick gloss, Book One follows the Redcrosse Knight, the knight of holiness, on his quest to protect the fair maiden Una (representative of the One True Church-- the Church of England...
The book is also engaging in extremely subtle ways with Spenser's biblical sources, but I'm not sufficiently steeped in the imagery of Revelation to appreciate this particular level of the poem's allegory.Following are the major events and characters of Book 1:Book 1 Cast: Redcrosse Knight (who goes on to become St. George), Una (One truth), the dwarf, Error, Archimago, his two sprites, Morpheus, Duessa, Sans Foi (without faith), Fradubio (brother doubt), Froelissa, Abessa, Corceca (blind heart), Kirkrapine (church robber), Sansloy (without law), Lucifera, Sans Ioy (without joy), the seven deadly sins, Night, Asclepius, Sylvanus, Satyrane, Orgoglio (pride), Arthur, Timias, Ignaro (ignorance), Timon, Merlin, Faery Queene, Trevisan, Terwin, Despair, Celia, Fidelia, Speranza, Charissa, seven beads-men of the holy hospital, Contemplation, Georgos, Una’s parents.Book 1 Summary:I.
Nothing is as it seems in this story where everyone is an allegory, yet everyone defies or challenges your initial perception of them and any allegory you try to apply to them.
If only the story was not the same old Arthurian tale of knights and maidens and villains and dragons.
Again, sounds exciting—but Arthurian type stories are anything but for the average reader.
They are oddly paced, abrupt, and dull unless you like King Arthur stories.Perhaps my professor soured my impressions of this book.
Or, my trauma from medieval and Arthurian classes and how this story seems to combine elements from both types of writing makes me innately dislike it—I’m not sure.
I'm in the midst so will try to update when I finish - this book is a delight. I have it on loan only until the end of the month. It will be a challenge to finish by then! I have said for years that I would like to revisit the Faerie Queen and this is an accessible way to do it. I appreciate the editor's footnotes, especially the snarky ones which is about 20% (although I usually have to read a footnote two or three times before I realize he is making a joke)
