https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/71252.The_Kindly_Ones
Superbly written but too long for what the story is about Creative Team:Writer: Neil GaimanIllustrators: Marc Hempel, Richard Case, D’Israeli, Glyn Dillon, Teddy Kristiansen, Charles Vess, Dean Ormston & Kevin NowlanCovers: Dave McKeanLetterer: Todd Klein THE END IS NIGH  We do what we do because of who we are. If we did otherwise, we would not be ourselves. Before of anything, I want to comment that it was very nice to find that The Kindly Ones TPB price remained in $19.99, the same as oth
Before of anything, I want to comment that it was very nice to find that The Kindly Ones TPB price remained in $19.99, the same as other previous TPBs. I mention this, since this ninth volume is easily twice the long, so it could be normal to be priced in a higher price.
Since it’s the longest (so far) volume in the series, and certainly it was superbly written, but in my humble personal opinion, it’s too long once you get to the point of the story.
Like the typical Dickens novel, The Sandman series contains a multitude of characters and plot threads, and The Kindly Ones is the volume which, gathering these characters and threads together, brings them to climax (though not to conclusion, a matter reserved for the next volume, The Wake.) It is precisely this movement toward climax that reminded me of reading Bleak House: somewhere near the end of Dicken’s narrative, with about one hundred pages remaining, you can sense the characters arranging their final tableaux, the plot threads combining into a finished tapestry.
A second source for Morpheus woes comes from his fascination with mortals and their brief lives, making him lose his immmortal detachment from the affairs of 'ants'.The resolution is not a surprise, given the clear portents of doom that became quite explicit in the previous two volumes (The Orpheus story arc and the final images of the reality storm at the World's End Inn).
more ruthless?I must confess that I found some of the characters confusing at the beginning, partly because of the artwork (I will come back to this) and partly because I needed to go back to their initial story arc to remember where they come from and what their grudge against Morpheus is.
I guess it’s like Sammy Hagar sang (nay, emoted) in a criminally underrated deep cut* off the For Unlawful Carnal Knowledge album: dream another dream—this dream is over.Sandman has never shied away from going into dark places; reading it is often akin to that time when you were a kid and were forced to go down into your grandmother’s unfinished basement to fetch a jar of homemade jam.
Here, Delerium is searching for someone again, this time her talking dog Barnabas, and the scene where they're reunited was charming as all get out.Practically every other character we've met along the way shows up in the Kindly Ones, and it was just more proof that Gaiman is the master of making everything he writes have a purpose.
I know that some people say you can read most of these as stand-alones, but the pay-off for following them in order is not to be missed.I haven't mentioned Morpheous much in my reviews, despite the series being named after him.
His work, to craft stories about stories for a mature readership was an impetus to the launch of Vertigo as a line to house Sandman and other titles from his peers with the same adult themes.
It was revealed that Hempel wasn’t the first choice of Gaiman for this story, but nevertheless the choice was inspired.
Like stories, his end was only the beginning of another.Postscript.Gaiman revealed that Mike Mignola would have his first choice and it would’ve happened had his schedule allowed it.
I for one would like to see Gaiman collaborate with Mignola.
6 stars!!! Now, you are probably looking at the title of the ninth volume of Neil Gaiman’s fantastic “Sandman” series, which is called “The Kindly Ones” and you are probably thinking to yourself about how this volume will be all sunshine and roses. Definitely not! Do not let the innocent title of this volume fool you! The ninth volume “The Kindly Ones” is probably the darkest volume out of all the “Sandman” series since “A Game of You” and yet this is probably the best volume out of the entire
Neil Gaiman’s writing is just as brilliant as ever in this volume as the story is exciting and creepy at the same time and it is like once you started reading this volume, you really cannot put this graphic novel down since there is so much excitement building up on each page regarding the mystery surrounding the “Kindly Ones.” I also loved the fact that all of the characters that we were introduced to in the “Sandman” series all make an appearance in this volume, sort of giving this volume a finale feel as everything is set in place for the huge battle that awaits the Sandman.
Though perhaps there are even more (a reference to the Hesperides; a mention of the Morrigan; the three women in a nursing home, one of whom tells a great fairytale/folktale) or perhaps there is merely one -- one entity revealing its various aspects at the appropriate time.
As I said of Gaiman's American Gods, if anything seems familiar to you (ex: Dream's motivation), it's because you know your (mythological) archetypes.My one criticism is only female characters seem to have fallen in love with Dream (or have I forgotten someone?
or is it that men dream differently than women).
It seems to me that at least one of the male characters should be in love with Dream ...
Best Sandman volume so far. Sadly illustrations are worst in series and this is series that has pretty bad illustrations overall.
The Kindly Ones is quite simply the best graphic novel I have read, the bar is raised for a series that was already at the top limit of the vault.
For this supposed crime the Furies cannot avenge but the Dream kings compassionate act of ending his sons life and shedding family blood gives them the power to hound the Dream realm and its Lord.An intense and disturbing story that hints at the repercussions Hippolyta Hall will face for her actions leading to the demise of Dream and the elevation of her son who she will never see again.Absolutely fantastic and a highly enjoyable read.
I want to learn how to draw a pentagram, into which I will catch Neil Gaiman to make ask him to tell me bedtime stories every night.
Sandman, Vol 9: The Kindly Ones: The climax we all saw comingIf you are reading this review, I’ll assume you’ve read and liked the previous eight volumes.
And when one of the them enlists the vengeance of the Furies, the Kindly Ones of the title who are anything but, events have been set in motion that can only end with one outcome.The buildup to this is fairly slow, as Gaiman visits almost every human, faerie, and immortal character who has been affected by Morpheus and might have an axe to grind.
This is my lowest rating of the entire Sandman series thus far, and the main and only reason for this is that I absolutely hated the artwork in this volume.
Rose Walker's story-line in particular felt forced, especially since it distracted from the main arc of the Kindly Ones hunting down dream.
But other than that it was a finely crafted narrative with an emotionally satisfying conclusion.I hate to go on about the artwork, but it was just down right atrocious.
The final scenes between Death and Dream deserve a better portrayal.
Δεν μπορώ να φανταστώ πως στο τέλος μιας επικής ιστορίας, που θεωρείται άκρως επιδραστική στα κόμικς, αλλά και γενικά ένα λογοτέχνημα μεγάλων διαστάσεων, θα μπορούσε να τα θαλασσώσει.Είναι μια κλιμάκωση που ο προσεκτικός αναγνώστης ίσως είχε εντοπίσει κάπου στο βάθος αυτού του ψηφιδωτού.
Η αρχή του τέλους εντοπίζεται από τα πρώτα κιόλας τεύχη.
Όπως συνήθως μια λάθος κίνηση, μπορεί να δημιουργήσει ένα καρκίνωμα που μεγαλώνει: ένα αμάρτημα ασυγχώρητο, μια λάθος εκτίμηση, κάποιος πληγωμένος και κάποιος που θέλει να αξιοποιήσει τον πόνο των άλλων για να φέρει τον χαμό ενός ήρωα.Ακολουθεί ο τελευταίος τόμος της σειράς, τον οποίο περιμένω με ανυπομονησία να ξεκινήσω.
Priča se konačno konkretizovala, ali što je bedan crtež,bukvalno jeste li vi u Vertigu rertardirani?Nadam se da će jednog dana doći do reizdanja kompletnogserijala, nacrtanog od strane lika koji je radio Sandman Overture, na isti način.
https://poseidons99.wordpress.com/201...
"Lady, I'm your worst nightmare--A Pumpkin with a gun."Oh, yeah. It's on.
Best one yet! All the peeps make an appearance. I feel like I need to start reading the entire series again now that I'm finally starting to get a grasp on all the many characters.
Jesus, the artwork is awful on this.So here we finally get to see seeds that have been sewn, the kindly ones get their wish and Morpheus accepts that his sister must do her job and take his life, but all because he loved. Very sad, but all part of his destiny. Not my favourite volume.
This is what I signed up for when I bought the entire Sandman collection.
Need more than 5 stars for this one. Definitely my favorite so far. I know I know I keep saying that but this one really is :).
A melancholy penultimate tale.World: The art is great, it's atmospheric and sets the tone wonderfully.
The world building is phenomenal this time, this is the penultimate book and with it comes all the pieces that Gaiman has created for the Sandman series, it's a culmination of the world building and all the things he's created and set in motion for the entire run.
The rest of the cast, I won't get into, the people we see this time around is amazing, all the pieces work together.This arc was amazing an culmination of ideas and characters Gaiman has created since Sandman #1.Onward to the next book!
Mervin Pumpkinhead, though appearing as irksome to other characters, is lovable for me, what with his antagonistic jests about his Lord and his other grumpy/funny antics whenever he’s doing errands in the Dreaming (it's a running gag in the novel that whenever he's commenting on Morpheus' bad traits, the latter would come up behind him).One of the many great things about this series is that it turns the stereotyped adversaries from other mythologies into well-molded, likable characters that lurk in gray shades—not white, not black.
This has been an emotional journey. Kindly Ones brings back everything full circle with so many, many call backs (or easter eggs) to previous stories and characters. I'm an emotional wreck right now. RTC.
It made turning the page to start the actual book into the saddest, crappiest feeling.
Or, I mean Book 7 didn't even have anything special happen and they moved the introduction to the end to preserve the story.
I think I'm going to let my thoughts on the ending simmer until I read the next book, so no spoilers, this time, from me.I'm having a small crisis because I really want to round this up to 4 stars, but I can't justify it.
But I feel like it's not.There was a nice best-of quality to the story.
While reading Songs of Love and Death, a fantasy and science fiction anthology compiled by George R.R. Martin and Gardner Dozois, I was surprised to find that Neil Gaiman's "The Thing About Cassandra" was my "stand out" story.
And they never fail.If Gaiman has been indulgent or unfocused in this series, you'd never know it reading The Kindly Ones.
And it's a method that builds into a fantastic tragedy, making for one of the most moving comics that I have ever read.The Kindly Ones illustrates why, I think, most people read long, drawn out fantasy series.
I waited to write this review until after I finished the tenth and last volume, "The Wake," which I liked even better.
(I don't love all aspects of the introductions, which are typically too long, describe too much, and--this especially--spend altogether too much time deifying Gaiman as the single greatest contribution to comics and Literature itself EVER.
Gaiman without question does make in this series one of the greatest contributions to comics and literature, but it makes one a little cynical to hear it page after page…intro after intro).
I loved learning more about the characters living in the dreaming, particularly Matthew the Raven.
I ran across a book recently which suggested that the peace and prosperity of a culture was solely related to how many librarians it contained.
But a culture that doesn't value its librarians doesn't value ideas and without ideas, well, where are we?""It has always been the prerogative of children and half-wits to point out that the emperor has no clothes.
To walk into the wild woods of madness."
A child is taken, and the mother thinks it is Morpheus and is set on destroying him.
Faced with the greatest challenge in his life, Morpheus confronts his foes and fears from a high and desolate peak surrounded and may have to make the greatest sacrifice yet."It's never what they want, and if we give them what they think they want, they like it less than ever."The longest so far of the books, this is follows in the same vein as the last couple in the series, in that it has a set of stories that all hang together.
But even then only maybe.Fun coincidence: I was reading this and also reading Hades: Lord of the Dead, because every time I got up some kid would swipe one of my books, and I'd have to switch to the other.
Two books starring the Kindly Ones at once.I'm starting to view Greek mythology the same way I view the tarot.
(Although when I win the lottery, one of the first things I will do is buy the The Absolute Sandman, Vol. 1 complete set.
The second thing will be to build the library of my dreams in which they will reside)
