https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/900055.Count_d_Orgel_s_Ball
Earlier Zelda had learned French on her own, by buying a French dictionary and painstakingly reading Raymond Radiguet's Le Bal du Comte d'Orgel."Yukio Mishima said:"The spiritual companions of youth are friends and books.
In those days the book that thrilled me most was a novel by Raymond Radiguet, La (sic) Bal du Comte d'Orgel.
He was like his uneducated ancestors who won battles but could not read a map.""She was so clear and cold that Count d'Orgel failed to understand her.
An analysis of feelings.
Ma tutto tornò subito in ordine, cioè nelle tenebre.”È strano che due romanzi diversi come Il diavolo in corpo e Il ballo del Conte d’Orgel possano essere usciti dalla stessa penna.
Il diavolo in corpo è una storia la cui tragedia passa inosservata, talmente rapinosa è la scrittura di Radiguet, talmente il suo innamoramento innamora noi; Il ballo del Conte d’Orgel, al contrario, è inconcepibile senza la sua tragedia, tanto la scrittura è ragionata, metodica.
Ma capisce il lettore che questo mondo sta morendo e che forse è addirittura già morto: i personaggi che compaiono in scena non fanno che replicare ritmi abituali, si muovono come si muovevano i loro antenati, fanno finta di nulla, passano noncuranti tra le ali del popolo che li deride.
Ένα κουβάρι συναισθημάτων που καταπιέζονται από τον καθωσπρεπισμό της κοινωνίας. Δεν μπορώ να πω ότι με άγγιξε και με παρέσυρε. Αυτά.
C’est indéniable, cette histoire de cœur a su faire résonner les rouages de ma constitution pneumatique à un train infernal et cela pour de multiples raisons.Premièrement, le petit monde de la mondanité, où se déroule la trame narrative, nous est bien vite rendu familier en même temps que les personnages clés du roman.Ensuite, le cercle relationnel qui unit les personnages principaux est vraiment très bien montré.
Mahaut, qui est une sorte de Virginie, aime en effet passionnément son mari, le compte, aristocrate peut-être inspiré du Baron de Charlus, qui ne l’aime pas d’un même amour, ce dernier aimant plutôt François, sans trop savoir pourquoi au départ, tandis que François, personnage classique de semi-parvenu, aime Mahaut.
I loved the writing style and the more I learned about the young author I was more intrigued.
When I started reading I did not really know much about it and had no expectations.
What I loved most about the complexitiy of this novel are many quote worthy sentences author uses.
While short in terms of pages - not nearly 150 pages long, this novel provides much food for thought.
Had the author lived to write more than just two novels before he died at the age of 20 I am sure some of his works would be part of mandatory school reading.
Comment peut on écrire un tel livre avec une telle maturité dans le style à seulement 19 ans ? Voilà le problème. Après le sublime Diable au corps, il faut lire et relire son deuxième et dernier roman. Et puis c'est tout. Radiguet est vraiment très grand
J'ai adoré. je n'avais jamais eu la chance de lire cet auteur mais j'en avais entendu beaucoup de bien . En effet, malgré une histoire basique d'amour (ici un triangle amoureux), on ne tombe pas dans le mélo. c'est bien écrit, structuré sans fioriture. On a l'impression de vivre l'histoire avec ses protagonistes.
A love triangle is set in post World War I Paris with the main characters caught in a complex psychological game.
It is brilliant, cynical, and erotic in a way that intensifies as the game goes on.
It is a game that is one in which the players are unsure of the objective or even the rules.
This is a book to be savored and searched for deeper understanding of the relationships that exist for these characters.
It reminded me in some ways of Proust on a much smaller, yet just as sophisticated, scale.
3 yıldız!Tanıtım bülteninde Jean Cocteau "Proust'tan daha güzel, Balzac'tan daha gerçek." demiş. Ne yazık ki katılmıyorum. Proust'un derinliğini, Balzac'ın naifliğini göremedim. Eğlenceli olduğu kadar düşündürücü gözlemlere sahip bir hikaye ama kıyaslanacak kadar değil bana göre. Zaten kıyasl mantığına karşıyım özünde, özgünlüğe, kurgunun derinliğine bakmak lâzım. Farklı bir yayınevinden ve çevirmenden yeniden okuyacağım.
The literary ideal of dying young, leaving behind a handful of perfect work, was carried (unintentionally) to an extreme by Raymond Radiguet who perished in 1923, at age 20, of typhoid fever, leaving behind two highly praised novels, of which this is the latter.
The adulterous relationship grows through a set of tiny steps - hand-holding here and there, followed by endless anguish, but the Count asserts the solidity of his class by prohibiting any scandal or uproar; "We are not in the Islands.
Ovu sam knjigu pokupila isto kada i Cocteau - Užasna djeca zbog povezanosti ta dva autora. Moram priznati da na zanimljiv način Radiguet oblikuje priču i slika stanje određenog sloja društva u doba 20ih. Ovakva vrsta romana me do sad nije pretjerano zanimala, no njegovo skretanje u apsurdnost uzrokovanu poštivanjem nekakvih tradicija i oblika ponašanja su na kraju poprilično zanimljive. Također razumjevanje sjeda na mjesto tek kad se malo odmaknem od ustreptale zagušenosti glavnih likova vlastitim emocijama i konvencijama. Dala bi mu 3.5 zvjezdice, ipak mi je trebalo objašnjenje na kraju knjige da skužim koji vrag se sad dogodio...
I picked this up as Mishima was a fan and the NYRB reprintings are very stellar so far, and it's a fascinating book, albeit tinged with the racism and sexism of the time.
Radiguet at a very young age combines the caustic tone of Flaubert with the empathy of Tolstoy to create a portrait of an aristocracy so obsessed with itself and the affairs of the heart that it doesn't even notice it's decline.
I was a bit confused by the ending but realized the abruptness is perfect: life goes on and is even silenced for the sake of propriety and the masks they wear.
oneof the final books that raymond wrote. its about the relationship between a coupl and a friend essentially. for a writer so young raymond can express feelings that you imagine you would be experienceing in the same postion. its a very small book and quite simply in its story line but the way the characters are developed in a short space of time is impressive. nothing on his deevil in teh flesh but still worth the read.
C'est un livre bien écrit et très perspicace qui dépouille les sentiments des personnages -- dont je m'en fous.
Jean Cocteau, it seems to me, said very precisely about this book: more charming than Proust, and more true than Balzac.
So the charm of this story lies in the delicacy and brevity with which everything is described.Despite the fact that the book was written in the early 20-ies of the last century, it can rightfully be attributed to the literature of the gallant age, so far it is from the realities of its time.
This, it seems to me, was one of the reasons why Mishima so appreciated this book.
At first glance, the story seems to come from a decadent vein which went out of style in the previous century, but there is so much more to this little book. Told in short, simple chapters, with a lightness of touch much like his lover Jean Cocteau's (who provides the introduction), it breathes with an air that is less Baudelaire and more Belle Époque. Has all of Wilde's wit but used much less to comic effect. It is sharp and painful as if it comes out of the page to lacerate.
4.5
I read this after reading Devil in the Flesh, Radiguet's first novel, and thought Count d'Orgel lighter and less cohesive, as if it were an unfinished rough draft of his first novel.The beginning of the book starts out with a rather arduous descriptive list of the politics of Marhaut's family tree which did not reward the reader much, the only other time it is mentioned is to help understand Marhaut's background and when it is brought up briefly later in the book.
The themes of love and class dominate this tale of a destructive relationship between a couple and a young man they introduce into their circle of friends.What starts as a joke takes a more damaging turn as the D'Orgels take the young Francois into the bosom of their lives and the Count, who has a problem expressing his feelings, fails to notice that his wife Mahaut is falling in love with the young man.The book details a suffocating a rather futile world of rich people who seek pleasure above all else and find themselves empty in-between looking for the next thrill.
All the main characters in this short novel are full of passions so bound by the need to maintain outward appearances, that they spend most of the novel battling with denial and obliviousness.
In his second and final novel, Radiguet again shows a journalistic verve in accounting for the complex psychology of his characters.I would consider this better than "Devil in the Flesh", the complexity is greater and the ending is shocking in both its abruptness, subtlety and finality.
You really wonder what Radiguet would have been able to accomplish had he lived longer.
Drugi i posljednji roman prerano preminulog Raymonda Radigueta zanimljiva je, no ni po čemu posebna, priča o ljubavnom trokutu u pariškom visokom društvu. Pisan iznenađujuće konzervativnim stilom, Bal pokazuje Radiguetovu vještinu, no ne i virtuoznost koju su mu neki, poput Cocteaua, pripisivali. Baveći se uglavnom osjećajima glavnih likova, on prikazuje nemogućnost iskazivanja istih zbog zadovoljavanja određenog koda ponašanja i općenito problematizira važnost poštivanja nepisanih pravila ponašanja tadašnje visoke klase i održavanja određene slike o sebi, koliko god ona bila lažna. Šteta što sve to ne radi na zavodljiviji način.
I simply love Radiguet. The Devil in the Flesh is a phenomenal book and though Count d'Orgel's Ball started slower for me, I ultimately loved it just as much, so it receives an equally enthusiastic rating. Radiguet had a talent for simplicity and insight that isn't regularly seen. In this book particularly he showed a keen sense of understanding for the inner workings of the minds of participants in any form of society. This is a gorgeous love story unlike many written a century later in the 2000s.
Ce court roman est d'une densité psychologique extraordinaire, il réussit là où "la princesse de Clèves" a, j'ose le dire, échoué. Ce que pensent une créole, dame du monde, et un jeune homme débutant dans la vie, qui s'éprennent l'un de l'autre, et comment tout cela se croise avec l'archaïque noblesse de l'époux. Le diable au corps ce n'est rien du tout, lisez donc le bal du comte d'Orgel. Significativement, d'ailleurs, comme rien ne se passe réellement dans ce roman, le bal qui lui donne son titre est un projet qu'on ne voit jamais prendre forme...
This was such a wonderful surprise! I read it almost in one go, it was so good I could hardly bring myself to put it down. And mind you, this is quite unusual when it comes to classics! I loved, loved the writing: it was concise and piercing, and not one bit flowery, which again is more the exception than the rule when it comes to classics. Definitely recommended to anyone who likes reading about love from the psychological point of view.
Въпреки очевидно малката разлика в годините между написването на двата романа, израстването на Радиге като писател е очевидно. Наистина, ненавременната му смърт е загуба за света на литературата. В това по-зряло от всяка гледна точка произведение се наблюдават интересни емоционални обрати на фона на бохемския декаданс на следвоенен Париж.
Hard to believe this was written by a 20 year old. Well-written novel concerning the frivolities of the idle rich in 20's France. Radiguet manages to dig deep and find the tenderness within his characters. Along with his first and only other novel, Devil in the Flesh, definitely recommended reading.
Not as arresting as his first but still solid. (Despite Cocteau, it's not lovelier than Proust or truer than Balzac.) Powerful little love triangle that's not quite geometrically sound, it turns out. Reminds in reverse of Nabokov's Laughter in the Dark. Or a Tolstoy novella.
well, i suspect that radiguet would not be quite so highly regarded as a novelist had he written his books in his 50's and not in his teens... but most people in the world, it seems, think baby geniuses are positively delightful, and i am no exception... Magnificence!
There is a purity of expression in this simply written novel. A purity of understanding. The characters' complexities are accepted and offered to the reader humbly and with little prejudice from the writer (although not the narrator). Beautiful.
