https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/27213163-another-brooklyn
This gorgeous novel is a poem. It is a love letter to black girlhood.
Each week, sister Sonja said, Start at the beginning, her dark fingers bending around a small black notebook, pen poised. Many moments passed before I opened my mouth to speak. Each week, I began with the words I was waiting for my mother… A forest grows in Bushwick. At 35, August, a worldly anthropologist, back in New York City to bury her father, recalls her growing up years. In Tennessee, when she was eight, her mother, was unable to cope with news of her brother’s death in Viet Nam. She per
From white flight to the drug epidemic, from DJ parties in the park to dangerous sorts, interested in drugs and young girls, from blackouts and looting to the influence of the Nation of Islam, from innocence to awakening sexuality, from finding friends to seeing the world slowly opening to reveal diverse paths, many dangers, and some ways through.
My brother had the faith my father brought him to, and for a long time, I had Sylvia, Angela, and Gigi, the four of us sharing the weight of growing up Girl in Brooklyn, as though it was a bag of stones we passed among ourselves saying, Here.
Brown Girl Dreaming won Woodson a 2014 National Book Award.
I knew I was lost inside the world, watching it and trying to understand why too often I felt like I was standing just beyond the frame—of everything. 2 1/2 stars. I liked parts of this, but after all the gushing praise the book has received, I was just kind of... underwhelmed.Another Brooklyn is a short book split between the present, in which August has returned to Brooklyn after her father's death, and the 1970s, in which she grew up. Meeting an old friend in the present triggers childhood m
I knew I was lost inside the world, watching it and trying to understand why too often I felt like I was standing just beyond the frame—of everything.
I liked parts of this, but after all the gushing praise the book has received, I was just kind of...
I feel like fans of purple prose and cold narratives such as Cline's The Girls will enjoy this more.
I personally prefer simple words that craft a perfect scene over flowery words that don't really say much - storytelling, rather than just pretty writing.I guess I just don't feel like this book was as deep as it tried to be.
I want to tell her how gorgeous her writing is, how I saw Brooklyn in the 1970's - that place and time through her writing as if I was there , how I kept rereading sentences because I wanted to read them again .
There is just so much here in this relatively short novel - the era, the place , what it meant to be a black girl growing up in this time and how one copes with individual loss , how memory shapes us.
I saw many friends give high marks to her first adult novel, so I decided to read Another Brooklyn, a coming of age account of four girls growing up in the Bushwick section of Brooklyn during the 1970s.
Two years later, when her father finds G-D in the form of Islam and allows his children to explore the world, August finds her best brown girl friends in Angela, Gigi, and Sylvia.
The book is a mere 170 pages but contains many adult topics and is not appropriate for younger readers used to reading Woodson's beautiful novels.
Audiobook.....
I'm guessing 99.9% of audiobook listeners will instantly connect with the narrator's delivery.
I was fully captivated by this story - BEAUTIFULLY written!!!!!!!
.....makes me think of the relationship between YING and YANG.
Neither Ying or Yang are absolute.
It flows with time...
which is how I see the context for this story.
Scene after scene is so easily remembered -- that we could almost rewind an invisible audiobook and play it back word for word.
And that's where we - the readers - comes into play.
One of the best 'slim books' I've read in a long time!!!!
Wow, this book was absolutely exquisite and powerfully emotional."Sylvia, Angela, Gigi, August. We were four girls together, amazingly beautiful and terrifyingly alone." Another Brooklyn  is a memory poem of sorts, a lamentation on lost youth and the intensity of adolescent friendships which burn with an intense heat for a period of time, only to leave behind the ashes of longing, anger, and regret.Seeing an old friend on the subway brings August face-to-face with her memories. She remembers gro
is a memory poem of sorts, a lamentation on lost youth and the intensity of adolescent friendships which burn with an intense heat for a period of time, only to leave behind the ashes of longing, anger, and regret.Seeing an old friend on the subway brings August face-to-face with her memories.
She recounts the way her father struggled, only to find peace as a Muslim, a peace he tried to impart to his children.The book reflects the changing demographics of the Brooklyn August remembers, one which saw the white people fleeing for Manhattan and the suburbs as increasing numbers of people from all over the world, people with less and less money, moved in.
Friends with girls, the ones her mother had always warned her against.
Girls were not to be trusted, but August knew they were the ones who saw her.
She danced in and out with her faith, at home it became her way, but out in the world with Gig, Sylvia and Angela, she was just a girl.
A girl with boundaries, but a girl, still open to the world and all it had to offer.They dreamed together, ran together, listened together.
I’ve only recently read “Brown Girl Dreaming” by Woodson, for which she won a National Book Award.
Brown girl dreaming was the first book I read of Woodsons, also the first book I read in the poetry, prose style of writing in which that book was written.
Another young girl, named August, but this time she leaves the South with her father and younger brother.
August, will be greatly aided by the friendship of three other girls.
August is a wonderful narrator, her joy, pain and anguish shine through her thoughts and words as she fights to understand the world she inhabits as a young black youth.Stirring, and wonderfully written, this is another unforgettable story written by this amazing author.
A woman named August returns home to Brooklyn for her fathers funeral and reflects on her family's life together with her parents and brother in Tennessee and then later on growing up as a black child/teenager in a poor part of Brooklyn after the death of her mother. August also tells us much about growing up with three other girlfriends and what life was like for all of them in the 70's. Nicely written!
When August, a world traveled anthropologist, returns to Brooklyn to care for her father who is dying of liver cancer, she has a brief run in with a childhood friend, which sparks a flood memories, which is at the center of his poignant coming of age tale.
In the 1973, August’s mother slips into a form of mental illness, becoming a danger to her children, prompting her father to move them away from Tennessee to Brooklyn, New York.
This is a poignant tale, superbly written, capturing the essence of the times, the angst of heartbreak, the troublesome aspects of mental illness, and the importance of family and friends.
I read Jacqueline Woodson's Brown Girl Dreaming and thought this book, Another Brooklyn, had a number of similarities.
I enjoyed them both.Another Brooklyn tells the story of coming of age in Brooklyn, NY during a specific time.
The memories of a young girl growing up and learning as she is growing.
Learning about life, Brooklyn, good and evil, and disappointment.
To hear the details of how people grew up in this concrete jungle.
How they survived and how their strength grew as they did.I listened to this one via audio and enjoyed the narration.
I wished more people would read/listen to this authors work.
Another Brooklyn is a book I will not forget. Are you looking for a thoughtful, nuanced review? Read the review my friend, Cheri, penned. https://www.goodreads.com/review/show...
Although I have touched on some of the main points of the story (the challenges August faces), this isn't plot-driven, and most is shown to us early.August and her younger brother have just buried their father, and she looks back twenty years and tells their story.
They look different, come from different tribes (my words) – braids, cornrows, long wavy hair, part-Chinese, reddish hair, darker or lighter skin.She and her brother are tight friends, sharing a room, holding hands for comfort.
They spend time looking out their window at the people passing by, wondering how and what they will become when they grow up.
It read like a memoir of a past remembered, the looking back on a childhood and the memories of a place that was and was not home.
Augusts’ place is Brooklyn, such a long move with her family from Tennessee, and in more than miles alone.It is from the present that August looks back in time to that “other” Brooklyn of the 1970’s, the Borough where her father grew up and returns to live with his two children, seemingly leaving their mother behind.
She’s coming soon, I said, trying to echo her.
She remembers being afraid of men, and how they leered at young girls.She remembers how her father wanted to start a new life with religion.
If we had known our story was a blues with a refrain running through it, would we have lifted our heads, said to each other, This is memory again and again until the living made sense?
But Brooklyn felt like a stone in my throat.""My mother had not believed in friendships among women.
She told me to keep my nails long.""The sadness and strangeness I felt was deeper than any feeling I'd ever known.
Let her be who she's supposed to become, my father said.
You cannot help but see yourself, or even one of your own friends, in the lives of these girls as they deal with some of life's hardest lessons; loss of a loved one, first love, insecurities about growing up, and eventually growing apart.
Jacqueline Woodson's words are honest and almost painful to read at times, but written with a poetic style that flows so smoothly that before you know it you have finished reading this book.
This is the first book I have read from Woodson, and a very quick read.
4 stars! I devoured this book in one sitting! This is the first book I have read by Jacqueline Woodson and it definitely won't be my last - I absolutely loved her writing style - very unique! I was completely absorbed in the journey through adolescence of the four main girls - August, Sylvia, Angela and Gigi. I felt their emotions as if I was there with them in the stories August narrated. Though quite dark at times, I found myself rooting for the girls to stick together and persevere. A quick, captivating read!
No one else writes like Jacqueline Woodson. A dreamy hybrid of poetry and literature - if you admired "Brown Girl Dreaming," this is for you. Hauntingly lovely.

August’s father brought them back to his origins after her mother lost her mind when her brother died in Vietnam.
She finds her way into a life-affirming friendship with a group of three street-savvy girls.
We experience her growing through the dangers of puberty and each of her friends taking a different path toward adulthood, one a lawyer, one a dancer, and one just mysteriously gone.
I hungered for a bit more in the ways of wisdom about growing up, more detail on life’s challenges, and more depth in her relationship with her father.
I love this author! She does the best children's books and covers uncomfortable topics really well! was really excited to read this book by her! I had it on hold forever and finally got it :)Again, she did a fabulous job covering more uncomfortable topics. This time the topics were young girls being exposed to growing up without parents, lack of education, seeing others on drugs, being talked into sexual acts and more. She did this all smoothly within only 177 pages. Shes amazing!My goal is to read every book by this author :)
While beautifully written and told (the audiobook narrator does a phenomenal job), Another Brooklyn lacked the emotional intensity I expected.
August, our main character, recounts her story—that of a young girl coming of age in 1970's Brooklyn.
The novel reads like a memory, and memory is a major theme of August's life.
From the memories she makes with her best girl friends Angela, Sylvia and Gigi, to the memories of her old life in Tennessee which she forces herself to forget.
It has some beautiful moments and sentences but overall didn't do much for me and sadly isn't a story I think I'll remember much of.
The ethereal quality of the book has in part to do with the fact that the narrator is looking way back on an earlier part of her life; in part that she is remembering her childhood, one in which she could not comprehend or accept the death of her mother; and thirdly the poetic quality to the writing.The idea that August thinks her mother will return and convinces her younger brother of the same, feels so honest, so real, so a part of how children really cope with the loss of a parent.
Drugs in the neighborhood, prostitutes in the neighborhood.This book strongly reminded me of A Tree Grows in Brooklyn, even though that is a different time period and about a white girl instead of a black one.
She also paints what life was like in the 70s, this isn't as deep or colorful as it is in some fiction that takes place in the 70s, but it was educational and interesting to read about Brooklyn in that time period.I wasn't attached to any of the characters, didn't care about what happened to them, couldn't be bothered to keep them straight in my mind - Woodson does not go out of her way to draw her readers into the story.
Jacqueline Woodson, one of the most celebrated young adult authors in the country, has always challenged her adolescent readers — and older readers, too.
In books such as “Brown Girl Dreaming,” her memoir in verse, which won a National Book Award, or “Miracle’s Boys,” which won a Coretta Scott King Award, Woodson explores class, race and death with unflinching honesty and emotional depth.So, in a way, it feels a little artificial to note that her new book, “Another Brooklyn,” is her first novel for adults since “Autobiography of a Family Photo” more than 20 years ago.
"We had blades inside our kneesocks and were growing our nails long. We were learning to walk the Brooklyn streets as though we had always belonged to them - our voices loud, our laughter even louder. But Brooklyn had longer nails and sharper blades. Any strung-out soldier or ashy-kneed, hungry child could have told us this."Brooklyn girlish childhoods, navigating the many different types of people, losing innocence, etc. This very short book was beautiful in audio.
First time I have read Woodson and I'm amazed at her ability to say so much with so few words. Beautifully lyrical in it's delivery.
It was way too short and fragmented for my taste, and while it was interesting to read about these four friends growing up in Brooklyn, I read the novel in under 2 hours and didn't feel like I got to know these characters very well at all.
August quickly becomes friends with three other very different and interesting girls, and I'm sure that if this book had dived more into their characters and their lives, I would have loved it a lot more.
In my opinion, that wasn't the case with "Another Brooklyn" which simply became a fragmented and chaotic narrative on some girls and their growing up in Brooklyn.
In this story, her central character is adult August, who looks back to her childhood in Brooklyn after the death of her father in the novel's opening.
August eventually gets pulled into their circle, and the girls spend several years growing up together, against a background of white flight, damaged men returned from Vietnam, drugs, potentially dangerous men to watch out for (in choir, in stores and elsewhere), burgeoning interest in boys, lots of music, hot summers.
The struggles each girl had finding her way to a different and potentially better life was hopeful and also painful.This was a short book, but a lot was packed into a deceptively simple story.
