https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/162780.What_Is_Life_with_Mind_and_Matter_and_Autobiographical_Sketches
The only possible inference from these two facts is, I think, that I – I in the widest meaning of the word, that is to say, every conscious mind that has ever said or felt 'I' - am the person, if any, who controls the 'motion of the atoms' according to the Laws of Nature.
From the early great Upanishads the recognition ATHMAN = BRAHMAN upheld in (the personal self equals the omnipresent, all-comprehending eternal self) was in Indian thought considered, far from being blasphemous, to represent the quintessence of deepest insight into the happenings of the world.
How does it work?!GS: Well fortunately I'm a flippin' genius and probably one of the smartest grandpas in the world so I can tell you how this DNA stuff works seven years before anyone else will know.
Here's the trick: it's an aperiodic crystal stored in your chromosomes.TC: But if it's so tiny, how do we fit the recipe for a whole human being in there?GS (pats child on head): Combinatorics, my boy!
They sometimes provide enough energy so that, kapoot!, your little aperiodic DNA crystals pop out of place and mutate!TC: Wait..
In 1943, a scientist, at one remove from the world of biology, gave a series of lectures in Dublin - called provocatively ‘What Is Life?’.Erwin Schrödinger, had shared the Nobel prize in physics in 1933 for laying the foundations of wave mechanics.
In his Dublin lectures, Schrödinger addressed what puzzled many students — why biology was treated as a subject completely separate from physics and chemistry: frogs, fruit-flies and cells on one side, atoms and molecules, electricity and magnetism, on the other.
Can Physics account fully for the mysteries of Biology?
He ends up writing something half-mystical, half-radical and fully-confusing, as Manny says in another review to this book.
Now the beauty of any sufficiently confusing book by a good/great scientist is that it is capable of triggering inspiration many times over.
These lectures which are mostly musings on a nascent new branch of science (genetics) in the light of another nascent new branch of science (quantum physics) inspired Haldane, Watson, Crick, Wilkins, etc.
We shouldn't bet against it inspiring more even today - perhaps the next round of disciples will come from among the ones who pursue AI today?
A magnificent book that approaches philosophy with strong scientific knowledge.
In today's world where Rockstar scientists not only shamelessly disregard philosophy, but speak of its irrelevance, this book plays an important role fusing together Science and philosophy.If you're a layman like me, do not worry since the book has been written to be understood by those with minimal scientific knowledge.
Its a book meant to challenge your mind metaphysically and not arithmetically.
Schrödinger explores the history of consciousness by delving deep into the history and behaviour of particles themselves.As a bonus, the last dozen pages are dedicated to a brief chronology of Schrödinger's life himself.
I recommend this to every lover of philosophy.
A naive physicist honestly ponders upon the mysteries of life, he just happens to be Erwin Schrodinger.
Schrodinger admits the inability of physics to comprehend the living organism, the need for extra-physical laws to explain life as it is.
However, he lays a groundwork based on existing physical laws to come to terms with life and going along his train of thought also happens to predict the existence of DNA years before its discovery.
A scientific man's interpretations of the philosophical questions raised by the title was particularly interesting and insightful.
However, what is particularly interesting is how his final question is not 'What is Life?', but 'What is this I?'.
But the reality is that we still have no clue how our most essential qualities work: How do our minds convert physical properties (photons, sound waves, substances, etc.) into sensations?
Can all of these things really be accounted for by physical contraptions, or do we need to involve another dimension?
Science is certainly the best tool at our disposal to discover the world and expand our knowledge, and it has brought us a long way from our modest beginnings: from cave dwellers to moon landers, and from warring tribes to...
This along with Heisenberg's "Physics and Philosophy: The Revolution in Modern Science" and "Philosophical Problems of Quantum Physics" are what you want to read instead of "The Tao Of Physics" and "Dancing Wu Li Masters."
Moving through evolutionary time as whole units leads, he believes, to life's stability in the face of ever-present forces of entropy.
In contrast to non-life, where order moves to disorder, life is able to draw upon order (“less complicated organic compounds which serve them as foodstuffs”) to maintain order.
Life is able to maintain order for a time, but in death, life rejoins non-life's march to thermal equilibrium.In Mind and Matter, a series of lectures he gave in 1956, Schrodinger makes several hard to follow arguments that appear to blend physics, evolutionary theory and philosophy.
A well thought out paper by a brilliant physicist.Would have given it five stars, but it happened to
To find
Само че той страшно ме изненада.Шрьодингер не умее "да разказва истории" - безспорно е прав за себе си и това проличава в последната част от книгата, където са автобиографичните му бележки.
Обратното - началото на книгата е страшно за непросветените във физиката умове.
Впечатлена съм от това как борави с науки, които би следвало уж да са му чужди, и ги представя през призмата на физика изследовател.
"Ум и материя" беше "разделът" от книгата, който препоръчвам най-силно дори за колегите философи, някои от които бягат от имената на физиката като от огън.
Pound-for-pound, quite possibly the most exciting book (outside of math/CS textbooks) I've ever read. Every home should have a copy.
ترجمهی بد، بدون هیچ ویرایشی، حتی گذاشتن ویرگولم دریغ شده! حیف چنین کتابی...
ترجمه‌ی بد، بدون هیچ ویرایشی، حتی گذاشتن ویرگولم دریغ شده! حیف چنین کتابی...
WHAT IS LIFE?: The Physical Aspect of the Living Cell. (1944, this ed. 2000). Erwin Schroedinger. ****. This edition was a reprint from The Folio Society, with an introduction by Roger Penrose. Schroedinger (1887-1961) was a Viennese physicist and mathematician who was an early pioneer in the development of quantum mechanics. I remember my graduate course in Quantum Mechanics in 1962, and still shiver when I think of the Schroedinger Equation and all of the hand calculations involved in its use.
Schroedinger (1887-1961) was a Viennese physicist and mathematician who was an early pioneer in the development of quantum mechanics.
I remember my graduate course in Quantum Mechanics in 1962, and still shiver when I think of the Schroedinger Equation and all of the hand calculations involved in its use.
He takes a statistical mechanical approach to the processes of life and the molecules involved in its various transformations.
This is not an easy book.
In spite of this, it is well worth reading if only for its effect on subsequent research and its explanation of his science specialty.
Quantum mechanics is probabilistic, and atoms follow sheer statistics, and because our bodies are fundamentally atoms, this brings the dilemma of how building blocks that are purely statistical, can crate something so definitive, like life.
This to me was a pretty profound idea, which pointed towards a fundamental hypothesis: can life exist only at a size which is at a specific ratio to its quantum building blocks?
9. Just like molecules require a catalyst (enzyme) to help it cross transition states by reducing the activation energy, can some sort of particle (let's call it enzymeon) exist, which helps quanta of energy to jump (quantum leap) from one energy state to another?
What matters is that he attempted that bridge by sheer intuition, and you will walk away in awe after watching one of the most celebrated minds in physics intuit the framework of thinking about heredity and life from quantum mechanical principles, and then musing on its implications for determinism and consciousness.
Schrodinger is often credited with bringing QM into biology, but until I read him I wasn’t aware that he explicitly insists that quantum effects are not due to indeterminacy, but quantum energy state transitions.
Scientifically very out of date, often unclear and self-condradictory. Frequently descends into religio-metaphysical mumbo-jumbo. The autobiographical part completely superficial.
In What is Life, Schrödinger attempts to provide a new understanding of living organisms by using thermodynamics as a backdrop.
In fact they remain at higher energy states through the lifespan and one organisms seems to endow future generations with this ability to resist entropy as well.
The unit if heredity that provides such an advantage is called an aperiodic crystal, later termed DNA.Schrödinger explained that life can resist entropy because of metabolism.
Adam Rutherford provides a wonderfully updated understanding of Schrödinger's ideas as well as later research on the thermodynamics of life.
Wonderful book, a rare example of a scientist who's also a brilliant thinker. Ideas are lucid and explained even though he is dealing with paradoxes concerning both science and philosophy. Easily best scientific discourse on philosophy.
Pros:-Many concrete physical ideas of life in 1930s-Good for seeing how limited but still useful physics theories are at that time.Cons:-His language is a bit difficult to read.-Some discovery during the last century have appended details beyond this old book.
Regarding energy, this book has negative entropy therefore adding order to human knowledge. It also provoked a profitable and permanent mutation on science. This Schrodinger guy was witty and every sentence in this text has a purpose; it was a great pleasure read such lucid reflection.
Truly a stroke of genius intuition outside his field that, in my opinion, has not been fully assimilated by modern biochemists and neurologists and, I am afraid, will probably be the underlying failure of most modern approaches to human-level AI.But the second part of the book...I was blown away.
I am partial to anything Spinoza so clearly biased here but I have to say that this is the best explanation to what "human consciousness" actually is that I have ever read, and it is interesting that it came from a Physicist!
And I feel Schödinger actually left a lot on the table.
Definitely dated but obviously on the right path, this book combines biology, physics, and chemistry to try an answer the question of how if it's so small our genetic molecules defy natural law and act in a uniform manor.
Life, for all of our understanding is a square peg in a round hole, it don't make no damn sense essentially.
But we try valiantly to make sense of it...
Could science be the path I need to follow to kill my arch nemesis the ego?
I found ot very enlightening as shrodinger repeatedly approached mainstream issues with an unusual method.
What I found most interesting in this book is that shrodinger would repeatedly say stange things such as: The scientific approach does not reveal the human soul, collective consciousness is due to the existence of god, plato was a genius for having invented the theory of forms and even going so far as to quote from Jung and some persian mystics!
If anyone has the right to declare the scientific approach inadequate it's him.
I also find it admirable that although famous as physicist schrodinger was much more.
A truly admirable man.
الكتاب يجمع ثلاث كتيّبات صغيرة الحجم لعالِم الفيزياء إرفين شرودينجر، الشهير بكونه من مؤسسي علم ميكانيكا الكم.
الملفت أن هذا الكتيبات لا علاقة لها بمجال الفيزياء، فالكتيب الاول (ما هي الحياة؟) دراسات عن علم الجينات و نظرية التطور كما يمكن أن يراها عالِم فيزياء.
هو ربما مقدمة نحو نظرة (و نظرية) للعالَم تجمع بين هذين العِلمين (البيولوجيا و الفيزياء النظرية).
الكتيب الثاني (العقل و المادة) هو نظرة شرودينجر الفلسفية للعالم.
بالرغم من النظرة السائدة عن كون الكاتب من مشجعي الالحاد فإن ما يتضح من هذا الكتيب العكس تماماً.
اصل کتاب حیات چیست رسالهایست کوتاه از شرودینگر که حاصل سخنرانیهایش در ترینیتی کالج است .
اثری بسیار مهم که البته نشر مولی سالها قبل با ترجمهای بسیار بد منتشرش کرد.
این یکی کتاب ترجمهای به مراتب بهتر و همچنان ثقیل و گاه با اشکال دارد که همراه با کتاب دیگری که مجموعهی مقالاتی است که ۵۰ سال پس از کتاب اصلی ارائه شدهاند( و از دختر شرودینگر هم مقالهای هست در آن) منتشر شده است .
خواندنش برای هر علاقمند به فلسفهی حیات و ترمودینامیک حیات و در رتبههای بعدی ، حیات فرازمینی (به عنوان علم) ارزشمند است و لاز
اصل کتاب حیات چیست رساله‌ایست کوتاه از شرودینگر که حاصل سخنرانیهایش در ترینیتی کالج است .
اثری بسیار مهم که البته نشر مولی سالها قبل با ترجمه‌ای بسیار بد منتشرش کرد.
این یکی کتاب ترجمه‌ای به مراتب بهتر و همچنان ثقیل و گاه با اشکال دارد که همراه با کتاب دیگری که مجموعه‌ی مقالاتی است که ۵۰ سال پس از کتاب اصلی ارائه شده‌اند( و از دختر شرودینگر هم مقاله‌ای هست در آن) منتشر شده است .
خواندنش برای هر علاقمند به فلسفه‌ی حیات و ترمودینامیک حیات و در رتبه‌های بعدی ، حیات فرازمینی (به عنوان علم) ارزشمند است و لازم.
Epochs in the physicist's world and eternalness of mathematical truth, combined with the general person's innate curiosity towards life, meeting at intersections of evolutionary biology and philosophy,It offers a quite honest, unique and refreshing perspective to the physicist's understanding of life, especially, while leading to the debate on consciousness and mind, where the battle supposedly has to include the wisdom traditions of east or mysticism, or more specifically the unified theory in 'upanishads'.Though the book majorly talks about the ideas which existed before the advent of cognitive neuroscience and artificial intelligence, it still is equitably relevant to the current debate.
a totally recommended book: a clear and precise mind that describe in a very effective way the connections between physic (both quantum and mechanic) and biology.The fact that this book was written before the discovery of DNA is not a big deal: all the major concepts remain unchanged.
Wish I could comprehend better. Maybe another read later.
