https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/241649.Hindoo_Holiday
Others have commented on how not PC this is; in fact Ackerley's treatment of these characters is extremely human, and he is in love with absurdity, including his own.
I never think of them.''Well, you said "the people," you know.''I meant us people, stupid!''I see.
With my own life, in these circumstances, and according to my own nature, I did what I could to secure happiness.
But I did not even know what happiness was, or where to look for it, and it was whilst I was in search of it that I dare say I got a little muddled."' (p 255)
His Highness waved a regretful hand towards it.'I want a friend like that,' he said."Another journey in the car:"Soon, however, we were clear of the crowd – except for two or three small boys who were adhering to the sides of the car like burrs to clothes, and had to be flicked off by the King's cousin with a long whip always carried for dispersing goats or cows or other nuisances."Jafar and an Aladdin:"And in the dark roadway, overshadowed by trees, he put up his face and kissed me on the cheek.
I returned his kiss; but he at once drew back, crying out:'Not the mouth!
Well, I will start by saying, this review is going to be slightly briefer than the one I just wrote, and Goodreads failed to save - Thanks for that Goodreads!This book is the diarised recordings of the authors five months in the 1920s spent as the private secretary of the Maharajah of Chhatrapur.
He wanted understanding and sympathy and philosophic comfort, and he sent to England for them.".The other English, or Anglo-English are ridiculed almost openly for their superiority, which the author clearly doesn't share:P78/79'Do you like India?' Mrs. Bristow asked me.'Oh, yes.
I'm so sad this book is over. Really. It was one of the most charming books I've read this year. more soon. Recommended.
If my paternal grandfather had been posher and more frivolous perhaps this could have been him. Enjoyed it
I've enjoyed a number of books covering the theme of East meets West culture clashes such as Orwell's brilliant "Burmese Days," Ruth Jhabvala's "Heat and Dust" and Forster's "A Passage to India" and "The Hill of Devi." Still, I think it is Ackerley's whimsical reminiscence I like best.
You eat meat!' 'Yes, and I will eat you in a minute,' I said, and kissed him on the lips again, and this time he did not draw away." Altogether disarming and delightful (and not at all exploitive).
One of the most enjoyable books I have ever read.
Instead, we get to look at the colonial India of 1920's through the eyes of a young - and naive - British subject who's in India for the first time.
The cast is full of all types - rich and poor, the British and the natives, the Hindus and the Muslims, the 4 varnas of Hindu society, and even an American or two.He arrives to the provincial village of Chhokrapur (real name - Chhatarpur) to serve as Maharajah's English secretary.
The Maharajah is not very interested in governance.
The final, major error of Hindoo Holiday is the mistakes Ackerley makes regarding Hindu and Indian customs.
What remains when one finishes Hindoo Holiday is the portrait of his Highness the Maharajah Sahib of Chhokrapur (to grant him his full title), one of the most comically complete characters in the fiction of India.
A miscommunication summons the Maharajah to Ackerley’s house at the most inopportune moment:“I had spent several months in corresponding and arranging this meeting with His Highness; I had travelled over six thousand miles to accomplish it; he might at least have managed better than to catch me in this state of unreadiness.” (P.5)The comedy of errors continues as Ackerley, unconscious of Indian custom, makes many social blunders, and ends up eating “leathery buttered toast” that he does not even desire (P.7).
I love his voice and sharp observation and good humor.
I recognize that the shock value of the narrative at the time might have been titillating to British readers, but I am not terribly interested in hearing about the beauty of the young boys who were virtual slaves and were used as puppets and playthings by the Maharajah of the book, and yes, even by Ackerley himself.
The unexamined assumptions of privilege just left me cold and although Ackerley is wonderful at poking fun at his fellow Brits, he does not seem to have a great deal of self-awareness as he eggs on the Maharishi to acquire still more beautiful, very young boys for his collection.
A mina bird perched on its branches, looking very inquisitorial and making a variety of inquisitorial noises.
The peacock's voice is as ugly as his nature, but then he is beautiful to look at, so perhaps nothing more should be expected from him.Give me the unhygienic customs of Europe!
With my own life, in these circumstances, and according to my own nature, I did what I could to secure happiness.
But I did not even know what happiness was, or where to look for it, and it was whilst I was in search of it that I dare say I got a little muddled.'"
This book should have been interesting: an openly gay Englishman in the 1920's visits an Indian nobleman and observes said nobleman's eccentric habits as well as records his own culture clash with the rest of India.
I honestly can't remember any significant events happening beyond the awkward exchanges between Ackerley and his doting tutor, Abdul.
There were some interesting scenes beyond this, but nothing stood out as significant.
Every event felt like some needless exchange that was only filler leading to a bigger story line.
Unfortunately, there was no bigger story line.
However, I feel like I'm going to reread it in a few years, and it will magically become one of my most favorite books.
A lovely book, quite funny, which Ackerley manages without becoming smug or belittling, as was the habit of many of the English in India at that time.
Set in the 1920s when Ackerley spent some months as the "personal secretary" to a rather eccentric Maharajah during the British Raj. Most of Ackerley's time seems to be spent talking with people; Marharajah Sahib sends for him frequently to discuss his many problems - his health, his state projects, and his wish to buy his favorite boy from an acting troupe.
Running eneath the daily goings- on is an erotic undercurrent which is deftly done, tender as opposed to the occasional giggling lewdness of Marharajah Sahib.
Written in the form of diary entries, Hindoo Holiday records the period of time that a young Joe Ackerley spent as private secretary to the Maharaja of Chhatarpur (renamed in the book).
(The position was arranged by E M Forster who knew the Maharaja from when he was in India writing Passage to India).Parts of the book are very funny, especially his comments on British and Anglo-Indian guests of the Maharaja whom he clearly dislikes.A beautiful young Brahmin boy named Narayan and a younger low caste boy named Sharma who loves Narayan and is also a lover of the (homosexual) Maharaja are significant characters in the book.
Charming, but rather lightweight-one of the "cerise" Penguin series. It is a period piece, a diary set in 1920s India, in an imaginary Indian state reflecting the petty distinctions of caste, class and colour that are never far away from writings on India at this time. Ackerley was highly regarded in his day, but the work does appear dated, and lacks any specific moments of excitement or note. Rather a snob, he is quite candid about his admiration of handsome young Indian men, however. Best read on a sunny afternoon with a gin sling.
There are few writers who are as entertaining as Ackerley. And his comic portrait of a culture clash between the Maharajah and himself is not only hilarious but shows one of Ackerley's strengths: portraying the British in India. It seems like fiction, but Ackerley did spend 5 months working for the Maharajah, a character only Ackerley could have found. Is this a travel book, a diary, a journal or a comedy of manners? A book to savor (or savour) and re-read. So delicious!
An account of several months spent as the secretary of an Indian prince, in the 1920s. I liked his My Father and Me some years ago so I picked this up. His descriptions of the Prince and his fondness for beautiful young boys are amusing, and his wry observations of the people he meets are okay, but except for a few vivid descriptions of animals, it’s not terribly interesting.
Absolutely not the most PC book! But fascinating, nonetheless. An interesting look at an India (and the colonialism that dominated it) that still shows its face from time to time.
One of his best books with some humor. It may be considered a travel book, but it reads almost like fiction. Enjoyable. Can anyone suggest any non fiction books about the British Raj?
This was one of the most amusing things I have ever read! I read it probably 20 years ago and it still makes me laugh, just to recall it.
And that’s sort of the fun.After his soldiering is done in 1918, JR Ackerley wants to get away so he signs up to be a kind of attache to a Maharajah in an un-named (or more specifically pseudonymously named Chockripur).
What follows is 300 pages of absurdity in which the Maharajah attempts through various misadventures to gain power, exert power, and gain legitimacy as a ruler and becomes a kind of mirror held up to both the pressing weight of modernity in the face of British Empire rule as well as a mirror to that very empire itself.
This is a totally charming, funny little journal of a young Englishman's few months "working" for a majarajah in colonial India. It's an account of his friendship with his nutty master, his handsome friends and the frightful English, as well as the beauty of the landscape and architecture.
I REALLY wanted to like this book. I usually enjoy books with quirky characters. I couldn't find a character I liked. I was very disappointed.
A fascinating and unvarnished account of life in India almost 100 years ago. Riveting.
I found this in Vence by chance and wanted tor read more about India. It's very like Evelyn Waugh's Scoop. Young good looking Englishman works as "companion" to the Maharajah. Hilarious and insightful conversations with the Ango English- "don't become like the natives" and the natives themselves. His tutor constantly asking for favours regarding promotion and the choosing of gods (young boys) particularly stick in the mind. We learn about the customs -what's acceptable to eat and with whom, also constant differences and conflics between Hindoos and Mohammedans.
a classic "travel" book about an englishman who goes to be a sahib maharaja's tutor (and possible lover)in i think the 1930's. clear eyed aloof observations of a stranger in a strange land. from NYRB Classics. never a dud in the bunch.eliot weinberger introduces this and that's what led me to this thing in the first place. THANKS eliot w.
This is a lovely book, beautifully written, with great detail of the place and time (the 1920s in India) and colorful characters, some very likeable and others truly frustrating. If you like the writing, also look for My Dog Tulip. I have yet to read that one, but I saw the film version and it was super.
I read the first 95 pages of this book, which was 95 pages too many. Everything I heard about it led me to believe it would be very entertaining, so I kept reading hoping it would get funny, or at least interesting. A couple of nights ago I was struggling through another page, when suddenly I was awakened by my own snoring!!
I'm in agreement with reviewer Kelly. I wanted to enjoy this and find it charming, but I didn't. One thing I did enjoy was Ackerly's openness to the Hindu culture. Otherwise, this was just a wash for me. I'd rather read The Raj Quartet again for a mesmerizing look at colonial India.
This was cool. A princely Indian state in the 20's. The Maharajah (and the author, It seems to me) were gay and pretty out for the 20's, I imagine. Lots of great descriptions that I could totally picture. Not stilted or dated, at all. Classic. If anyone wants to borrow.....
A gem of a travel journal! I was expecting dry, but got a mesmerising portrait of a lost era. It was enlightening to learn about the Hindu religion and amusing how little control those titled have! A must-read!!!!!
