https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/190507.Phantom
In other versions, Christine turns to Raoul for help because of her fear of the Phantom.
Or perhaps it's because he is only content to let her go (and yet STILL doesn't) when he realizes that she likes him best.It occurred to me that this was the sort of story I would expect to read in a fan fiction, where the story didn't turn out the way some fangirl wanted it to, so she twists and distorts the situations and the characters to fit her own means.
In the other stories, when Christine shows him love, she helps him let go of the obsession that made him want to possess her at any cost.
It is a biography of the title character, Erik.تاریخ نخستین خوانش: بیست و سوم ماه اکتبر سال 1999 میلادیتوضیح: «شبح اپرا» اثر: گاستون لورو؛ میباشد که با ترجمه: مرتضی آجودانی، نشر کتابهای جیبی در سال 1343 آن را منتشر کرده، این اثر ملهم از آن اثر استعنوان: شبح اپرای پاریس؛ نویسنده: سوزان کی؛ مترجم: ملیحه محمدی؛ تهران، نشر چشمه، 1377؛ در 499 ص؛ شابک: 9645571057؛ چاپ دوم 1378؛ چاپ سوم 1385؛ شابک: 9789645571052؛ چاپ پنجم 1390؛ چاپ ششم 1393؛ موضوع: شخصیت داستانی شبح اپرا؛ قرن 20 مسوزان کی، نویسنده کتاب میگوید: شبحی که در این کتاب نشان داده شده، شامل تمام برداشت‌های گوناگون از شخصیت شبح در دو قرن اخیر است، و بدیهی ست که مدیون آفریننده‌ ی نخستین آن «گاستون لورو» ست.
قسمتی از این روایت را شخصی ایرانی به نام «نادر» انجام می‌دهد.
Wow, I cannot say enough about this book.
If you were captivated by any version of The Phantom of the Opera and loved the characters - especially Erik - you need to read this book.
It was the first book to ever make me cry.
Kay was so imaginative when she wrote the character of Erik and I thought she wrote him beautifully.
I loved finally getting to explore his mind and the reasons why he was the way he was, and enjoyed reading of his supposed travels and finding out how he gained all of his knowledge.I was so happy when it came back to print and it's still a book I read over and over.
I must admit, I do not like pre-marital sex, but this was so beautifully written with no vulgarity, but only the desire of Christine to give Erik something that no other woman ever had or would.
The idea of a half beautiful, half terribly disfigured face, somehow seemed almost harder to deal with than a totally horrific face like Leroux and Kay's Phantom.
I could see how he could have constantly been reminded of what might have been.This is the one which stole my heart and made the Phantom part of my life.However Kay's book is special in its specialness of the truth of Erik as portrayed by his creator, Leroux.
This book pretty much killed my future enjoyment of published "fanfiction" (like all the Jane Austen stuff and whatnot).
Not because it was bad, but because it was so good.
Kay didn't give the feel that she was a silly fan playing around in her idol's sandbox, like what is the case with so many who write books based on another's creation.
This book was an agonizing read, and the Erik here is a brilliantly rendered character.
Kay took what Leroux created and launched into an epic backstory that is as grand and crazy as the source material, but also eminently plausible.
Buddy-read with the amazing Hufflepuff Kitten commencing (finally! Thank you for your patience, my dear ♥ ) June 22nd!
You begin to understand how he became the way that he did.God, this book hit me so hard in the heart the first time I read it.
You see someone suffering for how they look, despite their amazing mind and you wonder what would have happened if he had had love as a child instead of fear and scorn.
I feel like throughout the book, up until he meets Christine, Erik strives to be a better person but his situation in life turns him into the sadistic person that he is.
There was no reason in the world why I could not be the Angel of Music for Christine.
I learn in vain...For as long as I live, no woman will ever look on me in love....My kingdom lies in eternal darkness, many feet below the level of the Parisian streets outside, shrouded in the chill silence of the grave.
Darkness and silense have been my companions since the day I chose to turn my back upon the world of men and create an empire that was solely mine.From the moment of my birth my destiny was to be alone."I don't know of one person who didn't think Christine Daae a fool for going off with the lackluster Raoul rather than stay with the Phantom.
In fact, if Kay had ended her novel right where Leroux's book and the Andrew Lloyd Webber musical start off then I think she would have had a decent prequel to POTO on her hands.
It's really strange because Kay has obviously made an effort, in the first half of this book at least, to keep Erik's physical appearance and backstory accurate to Leroux's descriptions - but when she actually comes to the story that we all know and love she makes weird changes.
I love the Phantom in Leroux's novel and Andrew Lloyd Webber's musical.
Re-read For Valentines Day :)And won't change my rating...still 5 stars!In the Original novel by Gaston Leroux, few details are given regarding Erik's past, although there is no shortage of hints & implications throughout the book.Susan Kays novel Phantom, fills in those missing parts starting with Erik's birth & the fact his mother was horrified by his appearance.
The story unfolds with how she copes or I should say dosen't cope with this "monster child." Right away you feel such powerful emotion for Erik, and although you want to despise Madeline for her treatment of her son, you can also understand her plight.
The first part is written from the point of View of Erik's mother and describes his birth and her disgust when she first sees her son.It was a sad read which I usually can't stand, but it also builds a lot of suspense so you always want to read on.It was really interesting to understand how Eriks character changes throughout the years: he is rejected from society time and time again and therefore learns to hate the human race which he distances himself from.The love story from the original story is only dealt with at the very end of the book.
داستان مهيج و قشنگي دارد. بعد از خواندن كتاب، ديدن فيلم و همچنين موسيقي زيبا فيلم خيلي مي چسبد. اجراي مختلفي ازاين كتاب شده است. زنديگي اريك خيلي عجيب است ، هيولايي كه كارهاي وحشتناكي كرده حتي قتل امير كبير ولي با خواندن سرگذشت او از خردسالي تا مرگ نمي توانيم بگوييم كه مقصر تمام كارهايي كه انجام داده خودش است
But the mask cannot disguise her revulsion and the care she gives him is the basic minimum, unable and unwilling to show him any love or affection.Hers is the first rejection of many, and as Erik grows from boy to man he suffers every humiliation and betrayal, retreating into the angry solitary life he creates for himself, living by his own set of rules and hardening his mind against humanity.
Unfortunately, the book came undone for me in the last quarter where it joins forces with The Phantom of the Opera in a virtual retelling of Christine and Raoul's part.
داستان در مورد یه افسانه قدیمی هستشیه موجودی که بخاطر قیافه خاصش طرد میشه و اواخر داستان عاشق میشه...نکته ای که برام جالب بود این بود که این نابغه نازیبا مدتی رو در ایران در زمان ناصرالدین شاه گذرونده و در قتل امیرکبیر هم نقش داشته ! نویسنده اطلاعات خوبی داشته از کشور هایی که در خلال داستان ازش نامی برده شده
I have no words for how amazing this book is. BEST adaptation of the Phantom of the Opera I've ever read. Just ... wow.
Since "Phantom of the Opera" is (hands-down) my favorite Broadway show, and since I promised my father that I would find a way to produce the show with the Drama Club I direct, I thought I'd give it a whirl.I was impressed with Kay's knowledge of the source material.
This allows for a deeper sympathetic reaction to Erik's trials and tribulations than would be possible were it Erik who was telling his own story the whole way through.If you like "Phantom of the Opera" (in any of its iterations), this is a must-read.
I could talk about this book for longer than it takes to read it, but I think I can sum up my feelings on it in one sentence.It is my absolute favorite novel that I have ever read.I have read quite a few novels.
That is, it would be hard, had I not read this book.I've been in a sort of love affair with the story of the Phantom of the Opera for a year or so now.
Kay has created what is one of the best books that very few people seem to know about.
I first read this book when I was 14, so it's hard to know how I would have felt about it if I'd read it now, because it is so deeply ingrained in how I approach the Phantom mythology and the character of Erik.That said, I loved this book so much at 14 I remember reading the book during my freshman year classes, and then reading the whole thing over and over and over.
Even now, I can pick up this book, flip to any random page, and just love wherever I'm at.
This is one of my favorite books.
If you like the story of the Phantom of the Opera, you'll be both astounded and heartbroken by Susan Kay's portrayal of Eric's life - from his birth, to after his death.
Often, with tales from the "bad guy's" perspective, you start to feel sorry for the antagonist.
The traditional Phantom of the Opera does this already; you feel sorry for the "bad guy," but you ultimately end up siding with Christine.Phantom does something a little different.
At first I was baffled by how diligently Kay wove the tapestry of Erik's only life to scream "screw you!" at Leroux directly after.I'll be the first to admit it - I have never finished the original novel; however, I do consider myself a connoisseur of the stage show, and know enough of the work it's based upon to realize just how many liberties Kay decided to take with the classic work.If you read Phantom with no prior knowledge of the story it's paying homage to, it would still be a good novel with character development and plot and good pacing.
Not because it was bad, but because it was just so darn sad!I'm a huge fan of Leroux's original novel and I'm always nervous about reading anything to do with Phantom of the Opera (I'm still recovering from The Phantom of Manhattan), but there really wasn't anything to worry about with this one.
I understand that the Erik/Christine/Raoul triangle was covered good and plenty by Leroux so there's no need to go all-out when the book had already gone on so long, but I thought a little more time might have been spent on it.
This is definitely a must-read for any Phantom fan!
There are truly no words to explain the beauty and the humanity that Erik a.k.a. The Phantom possesses in this book.
Susan Kay does a fantastic job capturing the war-ravaged heart of Erik, giving him a horrible, loveless background but a deep-set humanity that surpasses all expectations.
This is a book that I will definitely re-read it.
Even if you're not a Phantom of the Opera fan, this is an excellent book all on it's own.
I first read this one as a teenager, when I went through my Phantom of the Opera obsession phase. (I mean, didn't we all?) I still pull this book out every few years and reread it -- and it always holds up. The writing borders on purple sometimes, but rarely (if ever) actually crosses the line. And the story... I mean, where to begin? Five stars. Let's leave it at that.
Gaston Leroux's tale of a disfigured genius living in the cellars of the Paris Opéra and falling in love with a beautiful singer has become a classic, thanks due to the many film adaptations and especially to Andrew Lloyd Webber's award-winning musical sensation.After the début of Webber's version, the Phantom theme has grown into a cultural phenomenon with a league of “Phans” enthralled with the love story cum mystery thriller similar to the Romantic generation of the 19th century that was captivated by Goethe's “Faust”.
I read this novel a long time ago.
I remember I was a teenager when I read this book.
I've read it like 5 times and it still makes me burst in emotions.
A golden mask, the name "Phantom of the Opera" by Susan Kay in all its red background glory.
I was fifteen years old at the time...
You know how old books smell?
Once I began reading, it was a rollercoaster of emotions.
There are certain slight changes in the characters actions, but that does not alter the beauty and horror of this novel.
I think this book a phenomenal retelling of the origianl work, and I appreciated how she attempted to stay (somewhat) close to Gaston Leroux's, and I enjoyed learning about Erik's past, whether or not it was true.
I had some problems, though, with the blatant Christine x Erik pairing.
While, yes, I would agree that she is the damsel in this novel, it was frustrating how no one seems to realize that Christine kissed the Phantom in order to save Raoul, and I feel like that was kind of a major downfall for me?
Like that she still insisted on making Christine be in love with Erik.
I brought it years ago, in England and have loaned this book to so many people now the pages are barely still in tact along the spine, and the cover is threadbare.
But I will keep it forever - as this is one of the finest, most heart rending explorations of a 'character' - that I had already become completely intrigued with after seeing the opera in London.
The book gave said character more life than anything I have ever experienced on stage.
Erik, for me, became such a complete character, that I feel I almost knew him.
A character, truly brought to life by the hands of this incredible author.
What can I say about this book, really?
A re-read, in fact, of many many times.
I've lost count of how many times I've read this book since it first came out in the early 1990s.
The book tells the story of Erik's (the Phantom of the Opera) life from birth to death.
This story is amazingly beautiful and every time I read it I am sucked into a story so vivid, so wondrous, so heartbreaking, that I end up weeping at the end.
توضیح زیبایی این داستان از توان من خارجه.از خوبیاش این بود که فقط داستان بود. یعنی همه چیزش داستان بود،نه فلسفه و درس زندگی و سخنانی که تو فکر فرو ببرن آدمو.یه داستان پر از احساس های عمیق و لظیف انسانی
A long look into the mind of the Phantom of the Opera. I love the music and the opera and now understand the underground architecture. Poor Erik is raised without affection although he has talents and skills that are insurmountable.A sad ending to a hard life.
