https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/195450.The_Ugly_Little_Boy
I love it when a book sneaks up on you and holds you in it's grasp as thoroughly as this one did with me.
A simple pairing of stories, really, made fascinating by the 40,000 year time span and the numerous endings that could have been.I loved Asimov's robot short stories and novels for the moral and ethical dilemmas the author tackles.
It's the literary equivalent of your favorite used book store that everyone else bypasses on their way to Border's or Barne's and Noble.
realmente me consiguió atrapar bastante este libro, y sin pensarlo, me acomoda para una categoría del reto pop-sugar, reemplaza al libro de king, lo cual no significa que no lo llegue a leer (22/11/63), pero si lo hago lo cual es probable, no entraría.
y Demonios, quién imaginaría un traslado de tamaña magnitud, 40.000 años antes, trasportando un neandertal en carne y hueso al siglo XXI.Naturalmente que para hacer algo así es riesgoso porque debes tener una muy buena investigación, y crear la historia de forma más o menos creíble...
Prvi dio je fantastičan, brz, pisan toliko čitko da odmah shvatite zašto je Asimov majstor(a ovo je samo potvrda da je njegov jednostavni stil nešto najgenijalnije što sam čitao), i drugi dio knjige gdje se radnja malo razvodnila, ali je ostala britka i čitka.
Usporedno pratimo početak ledenog doba i migraciju plenama neandrtalaca te njihov susret s Homo sapiensima...Drugi dio knjige upliće politička previranja, dječje pravobranitelje, odvjetnike i niz drugih stvari koje su potrebne, ali ponekad umaraju(vjerojatno i zato što je prvotno nastala iz kratke priče Ugly little boy).
'Lastborn' (aka The Ugly Little Boy) by Isaac Asimov;Description: Asimov wrote the short story "The Ugly Little Boy" in 1958. But there is much more to the story of the little Neanderthal boy plucked out of time and transferred to the 21st century. Now, Robert Silverberg--in this second collaboration with Asimov--has made this sf classic into an engrossing novel-length tale.Silver CloudShe Who Knows4* I, Robot 3* The Ugly Little BoyTR The Caves of Steel 3* Fantastic Voyage 5* The Last QuestionTR
'Lastborn' (aka The Ugly Little Boy) by Isaac Asimov;Description: Asimov wrote the short story "The Ugly Little Boy" in 1958. But there is much more to the story of the little Neanderthal boy plucked out of time and transferred to the 21st century. Now, Robert Silverberg--in this second collaboration with Asimov--has made this sf classic into an engrossing novel-length tale.Silver CloudShe Who Knows4* I, Robot 3* The Ugly Little BoyTR The Caves of Steel 3* 	Fantastic Voyage 5* The Last QuestionTR Fantastic Voyage II: Destination Brain
Νομίζω ότι δεν έχω ξαναδιαβάσει σε τόσο λίγες σελίδες τόσα πολλά! Η μις Φέλλοους και η πράξη της δίνουν τη πανανθρώπινη διάσταση της αγάπης χωρίς καν να την αγγίζουν τα όρια του χωροχρόνου...Υποκλίνομαι...
A book of dialog, a measured pace, minimal action, maximum reasoning and logic.
As a result, the novel (this is a big 'IMO') both succeeds AND fails because of its achievement of these elements.
It would be interesting to see an anthology of novellas from original short story: 'the ugly little boy', written by authors not wanting to emulate Asimov, but to take their world-views and literary skills and apply it to the story's concepts.
Simmons, Bacigalupi, Doctorow, Willis....Eulogize Asimov with a modern-day regeneration and interpretation of 'the ugly little boy'.
This was originally a short story by Asimov that first appeared in the September 1958 issue of Galaxy Science Fiction under the title "Lastborn".
Robert Silverberg later expanded it into a novel with the same title, published in 1992 as this full-length novel (also published as Child of Time in the UK).The story is about a Neanderthal child who is brought to the present day as a result of time travel experiments by a research organization, Stasis Inc. He cannot be removed from his immediate area because of the vast energy loss and time paradoxes that would result.
Asimov is a difficult author to categorize because he's so prolific, but even for him this story represents a dramatic change from the norm. Through a strange new technology, a neanderthal boy is transported from his time to ours. As he grows up he faces the hardships of prejudice, loneliness, and confusion. Where does he belong? Not the typical robot-fare from Asimov, and an enjoyable read from start to finish. This is the full-length version, written in part by Robert Silverberg, of a very famous short story of Asimov's by the same name.
I'm sure I read some Asimov years ago, but I can't recall specific titles. I know that I didn't read this one, and it took me by surprise. If I'd had to guess who wrote it, Asimov wouldn't even have made my long list. How much of the story was written by Silverberg?
Είναι μια πολύ πολύ πολύ πολύ τρυφερή ιστορία και χειροκροτώ όποιον επέλεξε να την εκδώσει. Είναι μια ιστορία για τη βασική προϋπόθεση της κοινωνίας μας, τη συμπόνια, όσο και της αρχής πως το μαχαίρι αλείβει βούτυρο και το μαχαίρι σκοτώνει άνθρωπο. Άξιζε κι η αναμονή και η αναζήτηση της. Βγάζει γλύκα και βγάζει πίκρα. Ίσως και μια επίγευση της θεωρίας ‘’ο κόσμος είναι ιδέα μου’’. Γοητευτικό παραμύθι και θα ‘θελα να ‘χω την ευκαιρία να το διαβάσω στο γιο μου, αν είχα οικογένεια. Για τη συμπόνια, τον άνθρωπο και το παράδοξο της προόδου.
Originally written as a short story in 1956, Robert Silverberg teamed with Asimov to expand the work into this novel format (released as The Child of Time).
According to Wikipedia, Silverberg added the storyline of the Neanderthal tribe, and the child advocate subplot, both of which definitely do add to the basic plot.
This also explains how I was reminded of Jean Auel’s Clan of the Cave Bear when reading about Silver Cloud, Goddess Woman, She Who Knows and the other members of the Neanderthal tribe from which Timmie was taken.
Включени са и няколко паралели със събитията около племето, от което е отнесено детето.
Дотук с научно-фантастичната част.Почти целия обем на книгата е посветен на майчината любов със силата на цунами, готово да помете всичко, застрашаващо детето.
Особено едно толкова дете с толкова различен външен вид, което въобще не би се вписало в настоящето.
В добавка краят въобще не се получи според мен, защото в опит да бъде оптимистичен, по-скоро се е получил абсурден.
Няма да навлизам в подробности, за да избегна спойлери.Дълго се колебах каква числова оценка да дам за "Дете на времето", но разочарованието в мен надделя, така че 2,5/5.
Va sobre un niño neandertal al que traen al presente gracias a una máquina de Éxtasis, que puede traer cosas del pasado pero sin abandonar los límites de ese campo de éxtasis.No deja de resultarme curioso ver como Asimov nos metía en la CF y a la vez nos predicaba sobre las virtudes que debiera de poseer la Humanidad.
Je, je, je, y me he hecho gracia volver a leer una novela en la que aparecen físicos o ingenieros como protagonistas.Estos eran las grandes figuras de las novelas de la CF de la Edad de Oro, donde la técnica todo lo podía y nos iba a llevar a las estrellas por un lado y por otro a uno sociedad maravillosa regida por tecnócratas bondadosos y justos.
Is he human?
Can he learn things, even though he looks barely human?
In this short story turned into a full-length novel, this question is explored, through the point of view of Timmy's nurse, Edith Fellows.
She explores these questions and this story alternates with what is happening to Timmy's family 40,000 years ago.
As long-time readers know, I'm not much of a sci fi fan— i can count the number of sci fi books I've read on one hand— but thisbook was so emotionally compelling that if I can find more books like this, I'll definitely read them.
Δεν περίμενα να διαβάσω ένα τόσο τρυφερό κ συναισθηματικό μυθιστόρημα από τον συγγραφέα.. δυστυχώς η κοινωνία των ανθρώπων είναι η χειρότερη, σε όλες τις χώρες, σε όλες τις εποχές.... :/ συγκινητικό το τέλος, όπου δείχνει πως η αγάπη δεν ξεχωρίζει ή κατηγοριοποιεί τους ανθρώπους..
Right from the beginning I knew this was going to be a book I was going to read more than once.
No one is right and no one is wrong, but depending on who the POV character is and how they are feeling, you get to see the good and bad side of everyone.
This makes it feel so much more real.There are few books that end in such a satisfying way that you just have to smile for a few moments after you read it (and it isn't the way you think it will end!!).
Сумная гісторыя. Але чытаецца на адным подыху. Асобны дзякуй за выдатны пераклад на беларускую Генадзю Шупеньку.
I found myself being endlessly exasperated by Fellowes's though process, being able to keep trudging through the book solely thanks to the prehistoric subplot and its prose... and then I left the book halfway through and didn't pick it up until yesterday. And - it seems - now I've found something better in it. It's a good book - which might seem dismissive, but the world needs books who are simply unexceptionally good.
Hmmm. Just looked at the currently most popular reviews in English here. Have to say I don't a bit regret the lack of "edginess" in Silverberg's expansion, and that I'm fully convinced by his answer to "What happened after they went back?"But then, I'm one who's content to read on their own terms 50yo works, including Asimov and Edward Eager; 100yo, like Sherlock Holmes, Henry James (sometimes), and P.G. Wodehouse (always); and even 200yo, like Sir Walter Scott.
The sub-plot which breaks up the main storyline helps in this regard, acting to periodically cleanse and refresh the palate, and featuring a different set of well-developed characters who are only tangentially related to the central story.The overarching plot, as might be expected from Asimov, is provocative and compelling, asking the question: What if it were possible to transport a Neanderthal child from the past into our own not-too-distant future?
Along the way, the authors set up just enough red herrings that, although the ending can be predicted, it is only one of several plausible endings which suggest themselves to the reader's mind; it is only in the closing pages that this question is settled, thus keeping the reader on seat's edge throughout.
Isaac Asimov's story with this title was first published in 1958. In 1992, Robert Silverberg expanded the original story into a full length novel. It deals with a Neanderthal child who is brought forward to modern times to be studied, and the erstwhile attempts of one researcher to actually care for the child as a person rather than a scientific subject. Not remembered.
This was a surprisingly good read. I was expecting it to be pretty dated, based on an Asimov story and expanded by Robert Silverberg, but it delves into a lot of assumptions about what makes us human, and does fairly well in representing male and female characters. The ending is a little abrupt, and I would have preferred another chapter or so to resolve things, but overall very enjoyable.
Un Asimov sur lequel je suis tombé par hasard à la bibliothèque dans lequel Asimov se penche une fois encore sur les voyages dans le temps. L'aspect SF est toutefois moins omniprésent que dans bien des livres d'Asimov et sert seulement de trame de fond. Le livre est davantage une réflexion intéressante sur notre condition humaine.
I bought this book about 25 years ago. I loved it then. I love it now. Isaac Asimov has always been one of my favorite writers and I've read much of what he's written alone or as in this case with Robert Silverberg another giant. There's is my third read and I'm recommending it to my granddaughter . I think she'll love it too!
I found it very difficult to suspend my disbelief far enough to actually entertain the idea that the majority of the public would be okay with basically kidnapping a child and dragging him through time. In the end I'm a sucker for Neanderthal stories, though.
I don't have words for this story.Such a masterpiece. This story revolves around an unmarried nurse who develops motherly feelings for a Neanderthal child TAKEN BACK FROM TIME, who was extraordinarily ugly and had to go one day. A great SCIENCE FICTION !The end is amazing!
Silverberg does an expansion of a short story of a famous Asimov short story. It is actually good. Although the plot is rather simple and the action minimal, the faith in human kindness is the true message of this story. I enjoyed it.
I wanted to like this better, so I read it a second time. The writing is good, but the future seems so dated ... kinda like the 1980's. Still only a 2 star.
Once again the short story is better than the full length novel (like Nightfall), but it's a good book nonetheless
A magical adventure
