https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2530.Baltasar_and_Blimunda
Baltasar has been trying hopelessly, to get a government pension, in the city, with the help of Padre Bartolomeu Lourenco, a historical figure, known as the "Flying Man", because he was building a fantastic, flying machine, the young King is strangely supporting this bold endeavor .
Imagine, 45,000 workers, employed in this massive project, building an enormous monastery, that constantly gets bigger and bigger, the King, is like a kid in a candy shop, never mind the expense, he can't help himself, a fabulous palace for the royals also, will be erected, even a poor, one -handed man can get a paying job here.
Impossible not to be impressed by this façade more than 230 meters in length.
The lovers are always at center stage wrapped in Saramago's language, which ranges from short simple sentences to surrealistic, unpunctuated paragraphs that help to intensify both the action and the setting.تاریخ نخستین خوانش: روز نوزدهم ماه جولای سال 2010 میلادیعنوان: بالتازار و بلموندا؛ نویسنده: خوزه ساراماگو؛ مترجم: مصطفی اسلامیه؛ تهران، نیلوفر، ناهید، 1380، در 373 ص؛ شابک: 9646205321؛ چاپ سوم؛ تهران، ناهید، 1396؛ در 373 ص؛ شابک: 9789646205321؛ موضوع: داستانهای نویسندگان پرتقالی - سده 20 مرمان «بالتازار و بلموندا»، روایت عشقِ دو جوان است، که عنوان کتاب نیز، نام همان دو عاشق است.
Baltasar and Blimunda  revolves around the construction of the monumental monastery in Mafra, an effect of slyness of the Franciscans and vanity of the king of Portugal, Joao V.
People would kneel before the king, the bishop, the altar, the procession, the image of a saint.
Saramago perfectly balanced insatiable hunger for knowledge and questioning the established order of the world with power of love and man's character to create a powerful and visionary story of the human determination to pursue their dreams, overcome own limitations and rise above dreariness in times when life did not mean too much and people were burning like torches.4.5/5
Perhaps, the longest 343 pages I've ever tried to read, but very fulfilling in the end; a 5 star like no other that I've rated, 'Baltasar and Blimunda' is historical fiction at its base, but a satirical fairy tale concerning the hypocritical piety in early Modern Europe at its crux.The language and prose is not only shockingly comical (speaking of the queen as merely a receptacle for reproduction), but philosophical, brutal and beautiful.
Also, with his usual 'non-quotation' dialogue, it makes it a bit dense and a slow read, but if you like Saramago, you know what to expect.In some parts, it feels slightly tedious due to the language, but in actuality it's the reader who needs to have patience; it will work itself out.
the sovereign is a gentleman, he honors the convents of Lisbon and its surroundings very gracious presence and his good offices, so much so that a string of bastards born of his royal misdemeanors.
Nevertheless João fulfilled his conjugal duties very scrupulously and periodically by honoring twice a week his wife, Queen Marie-Anne of Austria; Nothing does, the monarchical matrix refuses to give the good king a descendant.
And what the king promises, he does and orders.Parallel to this narrative, far from the inaccessible heights where monarchs and prelates hang, the destinies of three principal characters are told to us.
Bem, cá vamos nós.Este foi o primeiro livro de Saramago que li e não será, certamente, o último.
Como se costuma dizer: "primeiro estranha-se, depois entranha-se" e eu tive de adotar os meus métodos para que isso acontecesse.
foram aos pares como se elas tivessem sofrido e não se quisessem abandonar umas às outras num momento tão (...) emotivo.
Adorei ler a partir da perspectiva deste narrador tão perspicaz e inteligente.
A descrição não podia ser mais ousada e adequada ao contexto social da época e o mais interessante, a meu ver, foi sem dúvida o relevo dado aos que vivem na sombra deste Portugal entorpecido da primeira metade do século XVIII.
Za svoj prvi prikaz knjige na ovom sajtu sam izabrao, po mom mišljenju, najznačajnije literarno delo dvadesetog veka, u neku ruku skrajnuto, iako ovenčano nagradama, stilski i strukturalno za koplje prevazilazi maestralni „Sto godina samoće“ Saramagove velike zvezde vodilje Markesa (iako to nikada nije javno priznao).Takođe treba napomenuti da sam ovaj prevod čitao u izdanju sada već nepostojeće kuće „Lingua Franca“ u prevodu detaljnog i posvećenog Dejana Tijaga Stankovića koji je svoj život posvetio portugalskom jeziku.
Baltazar i Blimunda (kako glasi originalni naziv ovog dela) je sam vrh njegovog virtuoza, od svojevrsnog stila, koji je i u mom pisanju napravio snažan zaokret, do suptilnog razvoja likova, brišići granicu između tragedije i komedije, sve to uvijajući u istoriske i društvene činjenice koje ovde služe samo kao potpora priči kao najsvetlijem primeru magičnog realizma.
Παραδόξως για τον αγαπημένο Σαραμάγκου, κάτι δεν πήγε καλά από την αρχή.
Γοητευτικός με τον δικό του ξεχωριστό τρόπο! Εξαιρετικό.
But these last two books by Saramago, "El año de la muerte de Ricardo Reis" and "Memorial del convento" have given me a different feeling.
Memorial do Convento rings in at number eight and I can see why.In its heart, this is a love story between Baltazar and Blimunda (also the title in English).
They are given nicknames, Baltazar is Seven Suns because he can see clearly; Blimunda is Seven Moons because she she can see in the dark.
Tentei ler isto com 16 anos e achei que era perfeitamente ilegível, um assassinato completo da língua portuguesa.
Como foi possível passar mais de uma década sem que eu tivesse tentado de novo ler este livro?
Blimunda é a personagem favorita de qualquer leitor, de todas as personagens de todos os escritores que o leitor tenha conhecido.
A prosa de Saramago chega a ser poética: 'Dormiram nessa noite os sois e as luas abraçados, enquanto as estrelas rodavam lentamente no céu.
Lua aonde estás, sol aonde vais', sobre o amor de Baltasar e Blimunda.
este livro é tanto mais...
I picked up this book while traveling through Portugal this fall. Last summer, I read my first Saramango book, Blindness, and loved it. Walking along the riverfront in Lisbon, I ran into the José Saramango Foundation where there was an exhibit on his work and that of the famous Brazilian author Jorge Amado. It was as though I were a kid in a candy store! There were thousands of Saramango books in the library, and the bookshop carried many of his major works; unfortunately, it only had one in en
Last summer, I read my first Saramango book, Blindness, and loved it.
This was, per her knowledge, what made Saramango famous in Portugal.
Sometimes, one has to finish a pages-long sentence and re-read it to finally grasp the idea, all this being a surprisingly addictive exercise of the mind.
I must confess, though, that I found his complex style frustrating initially; I blamed the translations (so far I have read Blindness in French and this one in Spanish) and often doubted my capacity to understand what I read.
After reading this book, I feel as though I had lived in Portugal in the 1700’s.
João V, por um voto que fez se lhe nascesse um filho, vão aqui seiscentos homens que não fizeram filho nenhum à rainha e eles é que pagam o voto, que se lixam..." E foi assim: sob o pretexto de contar como surgiu o convento de Mafra, Saramago escreveu um livro que tem o sabor inigualável das histórias contadas pelos antigos, com muita astucia e imaginação.
I loved the story of Father Lourenço Bartolomeu, the real historical figure who invented a flying machine in the early 1700s, and the way it blends into the lives of the other main characters.
I loved the mysticism blended with the vulgar and the realism of Portuguese social life of the late medieval period.
I also loved the fact that the cornerstone of the novel is a love story between two very working class characters.
Their worldview is touching and extremely interesting, insofar as it reveals what the Portuguese peasant thought of the world.
شاید خداوند یکی باشد، شاید سه تا، شاید هم چهارتا، کسی چه میداند؟ تفاوت بین این اعتقادات مشخص نیست. شاید خداوند تنها سرباز زنده از یک ارتش صدهزار نفری باشد. بنابراین بطور همزمان میتواند سرباز، افسر و هم فرمانده باشدبالتازار و بلیموندا در نگاه نخست شاید رمانی قصهگونه و عاشقانه بنظر برسد، اما این اثر، یکی از انتقادیترین و روشنگرانه ترین آثار ساراماگوست که در این امر حتی از اثر معروفش، کوری هم پیشی میگیرد. داستان با روایتی فرعی، صحنهای در قصر پادشاه پرتغال آغاز میشود: دون خوان پنجم پس از سالها هنوز
این کلیساست که همیشه ادعای آسمانی بودن دارد و باور دارد روزی به آسمان‌ها ربوده می‌شود، اما می‌بینیم که این برای کلیسا در حد رویا باقی می‌ماند و بالتازار و بلیموندا و کشیش دانشمند است که قدرت پرواز را پیدا می‌کنند، آن هم نه بوسیله‌ی ایمان و باور دینی، که با قدرت علم و اراده‌ی انسانیساراماگو مانند دیگر آثارش، در اینجا هم به جهل، دگم‌های مذهبی و اخلاق تصنعی حاکم بر جامعه می‌تازد و در مقابل به تحسین عقل و اراده‌ی انسانی، علم و هنر می‌پردازد.
Memorial do Convento é mais uma das obras-de-arte de Saramago.A relação entre Baltasar e Blimunda traz-nos uma quietude interior inversamente proporcional ao assombro que nos causa a narração da edificação das Grandes Obras, reais e divinas.Acho que a maioria das pessoas começa a ler o Nobel por este livro, pois está no Programa do Ensino Secundário, mas acho que não é o ideal para iniciar a conhecer o autor, pois tem linguagem antiga, relativa à época que retrata, e é bastante extenso.
Felizmente, ainda me faltam ler algumas das maravilhas deste autor.
Não serão precisos conventos para fazer perdurar a memória de Saramago..
Now that I have overcome that hangup about reading in translation, I intend to broaden that experience.Brooding in the background of this entire love story is the thought underlying Padre Bartolomeu Lourenço's comforting words to Baltasar when he explains to Baltasar that confession is not really necessary because God sees into the hearts of man and will even up the score at judgment day,although it may also come to pass that everything will end with a general amnesty or universal punishment, all that remains to be known is who will pardon or punish God.or this:the royal party drove past looking solemn, grave, and imperious without so much as a smile, for God himself never smiles, and He must have His reasons, who knows, perhaps He has ended up feeling ashamed of this world He has created.It takes a bit for one to get one's sea legs in this world.
Not totally almost bereft like his writing in Blindess but more enjoyable compared to it primarily because it is a historical love story that reminded me of Ken Follett's The Pillars of the Earth (3 stars) one of the earliest books I've read when I was already a Goodreads member.
The plot is not as exciting as "Pillars" and not as profound as "Name of the Rose" but definitely memorable because of its milieu: the time when Inquisition was rampant in Portugal and the idea of the flying aircraft was still an unknown.I took a long while to finish this book because I have been too busy in the office since one of my subordinates resigned.
Alla storia di Baltasar e Blimunda, Saramago riserva invece la sua prosa più poetica, e un occhio quasi di riguardo, riuscendo a creare una storia d'amore intensa e quasi perfetta senza scadere mai nel già-visto, nel banale.E più che accostarlo alla letteratura del realismo fantastico, sottolineerei maggiormente come Saramago sappia giocare magistralmente, tra realtà e immaginazione, con i suoi personaggi, con la storia che crea e ri-crea, con luci e ombre, con l'ironia, e con la fantasia (sua per mezzo dei suoi personaggi, bellissime queste scene).
Um dos melhores exemplos do realismo mágico na literatura portuguesa.
Sob o olhar acutilante de José Saramago, o leitor é transportado para o reinado de D.
João V, mais precisamente para o período da construção do Convento de Mafra.
Narrando a bela história de amor entre Baltasar e Blimunda, o autor mostra também a sua compaixão para com os sacrificados em nome do capricho do rei.
Aliado a um profundo conhecimento da alma humana e a uma atmosfera onírica, este é um dos melhores romances históricos portugueses, constituindo uma autêntica pedrada no charco do status quo literário coevo, revolucionando a forma de escrever ficção histórica.
Saramago é amado por uns e odiado por outros (Leia-se: pessoas que provavelmente nunca pegaram num livro na vida sem ser para a escola, e mesmo assim foi com muita força de vontade, baba e ranho, e que no caso deste, não devem ter passado da 10º página. Ou isso ou não sabem reconhecer um livro bom nem que um lhes mordesse o rabo.)É tudo.
Cheguei ao fim, mas a vontade é de regressar à primeira página e voltar a ler tudo ainda com mais tempo, sorvendo cada detalhe desta obra maravilhosamente bem escrita.O Memorial é de uma oralidade incrível e por isso a velocidade de leitura (para quem não tem problemas com a falta de pontuação dita "normal") pode ser alucinante.
e claro visitar o Convento e ver (principalmente!!!) a tal pedra que tanto trabalho deu a transportar para a obra.E no final desta leitura dei por mim a perguntar-me: "por que raio nunca tinha pegado neste livro?
3.5 αστέρια
However the application of the same architectural style over the whole building suggests the work of Ludwig as the head-architect in charge of the Royal Office of Works (Real Obra).Construction lasted 13 years and mobilized a vast army of workers from the entire country, a daily average of 15,000 but at the end climbing to 30,000 and a maximum of 45,000, under the command of António Ludovice, the son of the architect.

An 'intellectual hodgepodge' is the best term I could come across to describe the book.
Padre Lourenco and maestro Scarlatti; and finally you'll come up against several symbols to be unveiled, e.g. the big bird Passarola and the mystery of how it is fueled with human wills to fly toward the celestial dome, whereto the holly office of inquisition never looks.However, the book is not an easy one to read, sentences are pretty much large and there are no punctuations save for concurrent commas and points.
It takes time to be read; yet, I can tell, the reading of the book is worthy of the spent time.
Poslije ove knjige osjećam sve veću potrebu da ga čitam.
U početku je bilo teško čitati ga i mislio sam da zadugo neću završiti knjigu, a onda malo po malo počeo je da otvara vrata u neka prostranstva, koja su surova, ali istovremeno i lijepa, a koja takođe daju neke poglede na određene stvari.
Jednostavno, počeo je da me zadivljuje.
Saramago je nekada ironičan, a nekada i tragičan.
Što će reći ironično-tragičan.
Istančanost kojom je predstavio dva glavna lika, koja se nalaze u oreolu hijerarhije, zatim njihove patnje za vrijeme inkvizicije u poslije ratnom periodu, njihovo učestovanje u izgradnji leteće mašine koja je i glavna ideja romana i njihov pokušaj segregacije iz svega toga je upečatljiva.
Sinceramente? Não estava à espera de gostar tanto.Demorou mas já está! Li o Memorial do convento todo!Quanto à leitura: Altos e baixos, partes secantes, as primeiras 200 páginas foram canja, depois ali para o fim começou a ser uma seca total, só queria passar à frente.Gostei muito da Belimunda e do Baltasar! Agora estou super feliz porque vou fazer uma visita de estudo a Mafra, quero descobrir mais sobre esta obra!Raios, porque é que todos diziam que os Maias e wtv eram uma seca? :o kkkk5 meses para ler um livro, mas consegui!
بلموندا بعد از نه سال در به دری و از این شهر به اون شهر رفتن دنبال بالتازار وقتی پیداش کرد که ریشش از اتش اجرای حکم سیاه شده بود
