https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/856190.The_Buccaneers
What you will find is a delightful and wholly absorbing story about a group of ‘new rich’ young ladies and their struggle to attain social status and suitable husbands in the complex society of 1870’s New York.
I do believe Miss Testvalley sees her own reflection in the young eyes of Nan. Miss Testvalley’s background and link to an impoverished family may not match that of Nan’s upbringing, but in those things that matter most in life – those of the mind and of the heart – Miss Testvalley is a true champion.
Now, when one doesn’t quite succeed amongst the fierce competition of young ladies in New York society, there is one solution – England.
Despite this, The Buccaneers is a masterful work of fiction, set in Wharton’s high-society world, and full of the angst and manipulation that makes me happy for just a moment not to have been among the fabulously wealthy, well-married women of the time.
One of her finest characters in The Buccaneers is Miss Laura Testvalley, a governess who knows her place and sees the world without any rose-colored glasses, but whose caring heart cannot resist loving and aiding her charge, Annabel St. George (Nan).
it has an emotional immediacy that feels startling and gives it a value different from a more controlled, classically perfect novel.Wharton's contrast of Laura Testevalley, who gives up on romance and sacrifices her chance of happiness so that Nan can run away with Guy Thwarte, and Nan, who finds happiness with Guy after having giving up on it in her role as duchess, fascinates: one feels that Wharton is both Laura, in middle age loosening her scruple, and Nan herself.Mainwaring's best contributions are a number of concluding love scenes that are satisfying (if not as satisfying as the wheat-field fornication in the film ;)) and a deft weaving-in of the horribly sexist divorce laws of the time that existed to punish women, humiliate them, and treat them as property.
I don't like the idea of reading unfinished stories, and I can't decide what irks me more: an unfinished novel like Suite Francaise, which didn't have an ending because Irene Nemirovsky died before she could finish it; or The Buccaneers, where another author is brought in to complete the draft.
The two most engrossing characters were Miss Testvalley, a confirmed spinster who's given up all hope of finding a husband and throws herself into the job of finding good marriages for her charges; and Annabel St. George, who ends up making the best marriage and is completely miserable.
The St. George and Elmsworth families are *new money* and looking for brighter prospects for their daughters in the marriage market so they hie off to England looking for Dukes and Earl with aging homes in need repairs that only cold hard cash can bring them.
I definitely noticed a difference towards the end where MM stepped in to finish, and like other reviews some of the first 2/3 don't have quite the polished feel of Wharton's earlier work.
Still, fans of Wharton and this topic (American heiresses in London) should definitely give this one a go.
But in the early ‘90s, Wharton expert Marion Mainwaring completed the book, based on Wharton’s own high level synopsis.The Buccaneers proved to be an apt companion piece to Wharton’s most famous novel, The Age of Innocence.
Fans of Downton Abbey may recognize the concept of a rich American becoming the wife of a British noble.At its core, The Buccaneers was about the complicated romance of Nan St. George and Guy Thwarte.
The feelings that spark between Nan and Guy when they re-enter one another’s lives drive the drama of the final act.In many ways, The Buccaneers is atypical of Wharton’s plots.
Mainwaring did a good job of this as the transition was seamless, and it wasn't until I'd read the last page that I knew where Wharton left off and Mainwaring began.
That said, the ending is weaker than what I might expect from Wharton.
As with other authors I've come to love, Wharton's endings tend toward the sadly ironic.
I wasn't as invested in the character to whom that applies.Even with that criticism, I thoroughly enjoyed this.
However, an author only has one best novel, and, of course, for Wharton that is The Age of Innocence.
But somehow at the end of the book, despite being relieved that she will live happily ever after, you feel a slight tinge of guilt associated with that relief.
I hate reading books like this because I'm a romantic at heart and deep down inside I know that if I finished the book and she didn't end up with the man that she loved I would be furious.
And I want love to prevail in the end.Nan did what was right "romantically" but did she do the right thing "morally"?Questions like that are bound to surface after finishing Edith Wharton's "The Buccaneers."
Five young American daughters of fortunate financial speculators, finding themselves excluded from the crustiest New York society, begin to marry into an extended family of English nobility.
Nan realizes that she’s made a mistake in marrying the duke, but there is no way for her to return to her schooldays, and pursing her true love will be disastrous.This story could be completely depressing (typical for Edith Wharton) if it weren’t for the fun of comparing it to the real-life drama of the Churchill family’s American heiress brides.
It was sure to have been her masterpiece!The "Buccaneers" are 5 nouveau riche American girls who, steered by an English-Italian (cousin to artist/poet D.G. Rosetti) governess, "invade" the Bristish peerage in the 'seventies (1870's).While later editions append with an ending written by a Wharton scholar, I am charmed that my local libray is still circulating this original 1938 edition!
The editor insists that Ms. Wharton was not finished developing several of her characters.
I'm still deciding if I'll read the "finished" edition, as this one was surprisingly satisfying even in it's incompletion.
See discussion in the Reading for Pleasure group/Buddy Reads/July 2016
After reading The House of Mirth I was so depressed that I promised myself I'd never read another book by Edith Wharton, but this one turned out differently (thank god) and I couldn't put it down. more soon but for now, it was a solidly good read.
An unfinished work finished with class.I was wondering how this unfinished novel of Wharton would read with a modern writer taking up the task & I was pleased with it but kept wondering how Edith would have ended it.
In 1995, Angela Mackworth- Young finished it with a different ending, and this is not available on Kindle either.
Wharton wanted to write a book about the Gilded age of marriages between wealthy American heiresses & English nobility which at that time labeled as Buccaneers.
This would be of no importance if the American intruders weren't "filthy rich" and the Brits weren't in desperate need of money to maintain their out-of-date Ancien Regime style of living.The second theme Wharton addresses is the social position of the married women.
Freedom, however, had to be paid dearly, and so it is understandable why most women chose the former "solution".Edith Wharton, being herself part of the high society, excells in showing the fate of the married American "buccaneers" in the British society.
(Maybe I should have guessed this from the mention of it being a "complete edition" on the cover, but it might have been helpful if the publishers had added the second author's name!) I'll admit I didn't read very much of her continuation - there is no indication of where the break comes, but it is pretty obvious as her writing style is very different, and I didn't feel reading her section would add much to Wharton's subtle characterisation.
I would really like to give five stars for Wharton - or for her best passages - and one for the continuation.
Oh my God, if someone could resurrect the dead and had enough magic potion for one person, I would choose Madame Wharton. It devastates me that even if I visit the "W" shelf at the library a million times over, as if I were a pilgrim visiting a holy shrine, on my bleeding and torn knees, there will never be a new Wharton book propped there for me to read for the very first time. I guess I should be grateful that there are authors out there who inspire such devotion, dead or otherwise.
Qu’il s’agisse de faire son entrée dans le monde, d’être courtisée ou bien encore de son comportement avec son mari, les héroïnes sont sans cesse confrontées à ce qu’elles devraient faire ou à la façon dont elles devraient agir, en vertu de règles ancestrales établies par la bonne société.
Chez Edith Wharton, il semblerait bien que la complexité de la vie se reflète dans les destins souvent tragiques de ses héroïnes.
Pourtant, le destin des Boucanières est bien moins dramatique que celui de Lily Bart dans Chez les heureux du monde.
They are the buccaneers.Four stars for the portion Wharton wrote, which co-author Marion Mainwaring tells us is about 89,000 words.
Not coincidentally, it was accompanied by the types of romantic interactions between characters that Wharton would only hint at, but a modern writer would spell out for you.I want to get hold of the 1938 edition, which doesn't contain Mainwaring's concluding chapters, and also contains the racial language Mainwaring removed for fear it would offend modern readers.
The 1993 text is full of words like brown, and dusky, and someone sends a telegram inquiring about her future daughter-in-law: "Is she black?" The bowdlerization left a bad taste in my mouth.
My chief exposure to Edith Wharton was the very short and quite depressing "Ethan Frome." I found that to be written in quite an impenetrable style and was turned off of her for years - until I saw the film and came across a copy of the book in a used bookstore.The way she writes in "The Buccaneers" is really fantastic - she manages to show things from the perspectives of different characters - even going into the point of view of a particular character for an entire chapter.
Мог бы быть и толще, но, как известно, закончить его не успели.
И это очень правильно, потому что большинство POW-рассказчиков тоже пришли извне: гувернантка, Аннабелл, даже Гай после долгого отсутствия чувствует себя посторонним.В известном смысле этот роман -- приквел к The Age of Innocence: там вышедшая замуж в Европу американка возвращается домой, тут стайка американских красавиц отправляется на охоту за женихами в Великобританию.
Теперь я жалею, что смотрела сериал с его дурацкими выдумками, но, с другой стороны, там столько наверчено нового и чуждого книге, что это практически разные истории, слегка объединенные именами героев и общим сюжетом.
The story in itself is not that thrilling or exciting, but I could not put the book down because of of how well it was written.
Compare that to the beginning of the book where just a description of the interaction between Mr. and Mrs. St.
George did so much to describe their relationship: "He laid his hand on his wife's graying blond hair, and brushed her care-worn forehead with the tip of his moustache - a ritual gesture which convinced him that he had kissed her and Mrs St. George that she had been kissed."Wharton's work is 4 stars.
Lots of fun and often overlooked, this chronicles the marriage prospects of four daughters of nouveau riche Americans who hope to land cash-poor English aristocrats. After all, new fortunes can’t buy entrance to New York society, but the doors have to swing wide open if the families can boast a duke for an in-law. But can a titled marriage bring happiness? Of course not (at least not always), but the individual journeys make for great reading.
This book was finished by another author and frankly I just skimmed at end. I love Edith Wharton's writing but I think it was a mistake to let someone else finish this book. I thought the difference in writing styles was very obvious and it was a big let-down. The writing that I take to be Mainwaring's reads like a bad period romance.
I hardly feel this book can be classified as an Edith Wharton -- she died before it was completed, and apparently even before it was fleshed out. The complete-r, one Marion Mainwaring (writing in 1993), stews the final chapters with injudicious parentheses, romance-novel prose (Nan is "a flower unfolding ... a rose in bloom") and exclamation points galore. God help us all.
This might be an odd start to Wharton, but the subject matter intrigued me after having read a non-fiction book about the very phenomenon Wharton talks of here (American heiresses who, finding no entrance into the very rigid New York social scene, instead invaded the British aristocracy).
The Buccaneers is unfinished, but Wharton reads like a Victorian Austen, fully as knowing about human nature, and almost as ready to take the piss out of everybody though not quite.
I really enjoyed it and it is a great shame it was never finished.
However, there's plenty more where that came from so I have something to look forward to at least.
Wharton has fun exposing the petty snobberies of New York society as well as the pointless traditions of the British class system, as when the Dowager Duchess of Tintagel says "What would happen next, as I said to her, in a house where the housekeeper DID take her meals with the upper servants?".This is a story of the clash of the Old World and the New, of marriages of convenience, of infidelities and boredom.
An unmarried governess with spirit and allure, she perhaps points to a more independent style of womanhood and provides a contrast to the other female characters in this novel.The story ends on a note of hope and optimism in contrast to other novels by Wharton which end in sadness and despair.
I couldn't put this down last night; review to come.
Not my favorite setting or era, but a very engaging exploration of human nature - the nature of one young American girl in particular. Its fairytale-ish ending is flimsy and transparent, further commentary on the story as a whole. Disillusionment and fantasy exist side-by-side in Wharton's world, and they don't get along very smoothly. One can imagine that reality came crashing in just after the curtain fell.
The BBC did a much better mini series adaptation than the author did of writing it. I understand that she didn't finish and it was completed by a second author. Well that was the end of that. The delineation of character happened the same time as the new author started dabbling, if you will. Not great.
I'm afraid that the book lost steam about 2/3 of the way through. For me, it became turgid and the and lost its magic. This is the second time I have read it and, sorry to say, I didn't like it any better the second time.
