https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/80369.Discipline_and_Punish
در این کتاب، «فوکو» دودمان شکل گیری کالبد و ذهن را در چارچوب نظام‌های مراقبتی و انضباطی قدرت مورد پژوهش قرار می‌دهد، و مدعی ست که در نهادهایی چون: مدارس، زندانها، بیمارستان‌ها، و کارگاه‌ها، تکنیک‌های انضباطی ویژه، به کار می‌رود، و در چهارچوب آنها مقررات حاکم بر رفتار و سلوک، اقدامات مراقبتی، و شیوه‌ های نظارت بر آنها تدوین، و به معرض اجرا درمی‌آید.
Whereas the medieval prisoner undergoing torture was expected to confess to a priest and receive the absolution of God, the modern prisoner, subject to the State, sits under the watchful gaze of its representatives and has his every bodily function regulated in accordance with the State even as it attempts thereby to control his mind.
What relation does each individual in each respective mass have to his fellows under observation and control?I recommend this book to anyone interested in the penal system and, more broadly, in the development of the post-Enlightenment world and its differences from the medieval one which preceded it.
For, as Foucault points out here, the point of history isn’t for us to understand the past – that is dead and gone and has only the meaning we can give it from our vantage point – the point of history is to provide the narrative that helps us to understand the present.I want to start with one of the quotes that go off with a bang at the start of this book – that shock us by how distant our world seems moved from that of a few hundred years ago:“…in 1584 the assassin of William of Orange was abandoned to what seems like an infinity of vengeance.
“Discipline 'makes' individuals; it is the specific technique of a power that regards individuals both as objects and as instruments of its exercise.” ― Michel Foucault, Discipline and PunishI've had this book for nearly twenty years on myself.
It is interesting reading this and thinking about how influential Foucault was in the modern criticisms of the penal system, and various areas of control (schools, hospitals, psychiatric facilities, the military and prisons).I didn't realize until I read the prologue that the "Disciple" part of the title was originally Surveiller (Watch) et punir (Punish).
It is rhetorical… none of which takes away from the sheer surface brilliance of this book.-- and as a reader of Plato’s Theaetetus and Sophist, I *fully* understand the philosophical and metaphysical implications of ‘the rhetorical’ – in fact, I teach a course on this topic.(2) Worse, Foucault equivocates repeatedly on this question that “Nathan” and I were discussing regarding the law of contradiction.
But if this postulated origin falls, then so too falls his theory that knowledge is simply power.(That said -- I am really impressed by this book -- and think it is a major work, and I'm quite embarrassed to have missed its importance all these years.
Foucault begins this book by recounting the fate of a man called Damien the regicide, who attempted to assassinate King Louis XV of France in 1757.
Foucault says that Public executions and scenes like this were common and happened every once in a while for those who were accused of heinous crimes.
Modern prison is the model for control of an entire society.
Such was not the case, Foucault says, back when men were tortured in streets and executed brutally.
So Prison system, doesn’t only takes away the spectacle of torture and murder from the streets, it crushes dissent and shackles the conscience of the society.
In many ways a response to the French government's penal codes of the 60s and 70s but also a continuation of Foucault's work in Madness and Civilization, the influence of D&P can be seen everywhere from Spielberg's Minority Report to Enemy of the State to Ted Conover's Newjack and most if not all critiques of surveillant governments.
His strategy here and in M&C is to lay out a pretty sinister historical transition in the way states used their power, passing over counterexamples that might disprove his point (Australia, anyone?), and then allow the reader to assume that the trend he has identified continues...
I would also recommend Goffman's "Asylums" and Sykes "The Society of the Prison" as works which can illuminate Foucault's oft dense prose.Foucault's main thesis is that the transistion of society into modernity has resulted in institutions which are increasingly devoted to the control of the "inmate's" time.
The instituions use this control of time to develop discipline.
Foucault leads up to his discussion of the prison by examining developments in other instituions: the work shop, the school and the barracks.I really would encourage admirers of this work to read Goffman's "Asylums".
Ovo je bilo mnogo prijatnije iskustvo nego što sam očekivala - e, da mi je Nadzirati i kažnjavati pre iks godina bio prvi Fuko, a ne Reči i stvari, ko zna šta bi bilo.S druge strane, drago mi je što ga čitam s malo razvijenijim kritičkim mišljenjem nego onomad sa dvaes godina :P Jer Fuko piše tako super retorički zavodljivo a usto potkovano činjenicama da mic po mic čitalac krene da prihvata i one klimavije delove njegovih teorija o zatvoru kao sistemu za (jelte) nadziranje i kažnjavanje koji u suštini odražava ustrojstvo čitave države i povratno ga određuje.
Sve je to izloženo tako ubedljivo i, ponoviću, sa sjajnom retorikom i inteligentnom strašću (koja mnohohogo nedostaje raznim Fukoovim sledbenicima) da u nekom trenutku prosto može da izmakne kako Fuko "državi kao represivnom aparatu" ne suprotstavlja ništa tj.
This book rearranged my brain. I have never read something that met my intuition half way, and then expanded my vision beyond all critical capacities I knew before. I will never conceive of power, structures, knowledge, statistics, or my cock the same way again. His anti-humanitarian, empirical, and nonuniversal critiques that follow the money and the violence are the perfect medicine for people who have been reading saggy assed media studies and cultural studies for too long. Saved my life.
Another one of those Big Idea Books that I've only just now got around to reading.Although I must express some doubts about Foucault's history of the prison system and its supposedly linear process from revenge to rehabilitation (in many parts of the United States, we're still big on violent punishment and mandatory minimum sentencing), the idea of certain societal institutions as means to force compliance and uniformity is a powerful idea.
And unless I one day find myself in a situation with extremely limited mobility and options, with a great deal of time (read: years) on my hands, it's conceivable that I never will.I'd like to have read this book, since I'm very interested in the topics it addresses, but I don't know that I have the mind, stomach, or patience for Foucault.
So while I'd like to have read it, I don't know that I'd like as much to read it, if you get what I'm saying.
First I have to admit that I was probably provoked to read this because Steven Pinker said it was 'unconvincing' in his particularly unconvincing book 'The Better Angels of our Nature'.
So you know that strange combination kinda got my notice.Anyhow, on to a quick review...SO Foucault's take on the increasing levels of civilization that pinker toots about is that it actually ain't so civilized.
Although institutions of 'social care' have expanded immensely they also increased repression of the inmates.
But not physically violent repression (that's about as far as Pinker and Foucault agree).
(A glorious example: "The moment that saw the transition from historico-ritual mechanisms for the formation of individuality to the scientifico-disciplinary mechanisms, when the normal took over from the ancestral, and measurement from status, thus substituting for the individuality of the memorable man that of the calculable man, that moment when the sciences of man became possible is the moment when a new technology of power and a new political anatomy of the body were implemented.") Oh, how we pine for our free-er days of savagery!All that aside, Foucault seems to do an incredibly meticulous job of tracing the history of discipline and punishment.
Finally reading Foucault after reading a ton of stuff that was (supposedly) inspired by Foucault made me realize I like Foucault a LOT more than I like people who like Foucault.
"Gözlem altına almak, disiplinsel yöntemler ve inceleme usulleri tarafından istila edilmiş olan bir adaletin doğal uzantıları olmaktadırlar. Bölümlere ayrılmış kronolojisi, sorunlu çalışması, gözetim altında tutma ve kaydetme mercileri, yargıcın uzantısı olan ve onun görevlerini artıran normalleştirme hocalarıyla, hücrelerden oluşan hapishanenin modern cezalandırmanın aracı olmasında şaşılacak bir şey yoktur. Eğer hapishane fabrikalara, okullara, kışlalara benziyorsa ve bunların da hepsi hapishaneye benziyorsa, bunda şaşılacak bir yan yoktur."
رویهمرفته کتاب جالبی از سیر تحول وحشیگیری ابتدایی در مجازاتها و رسیدن اونها به شکل نوینی که عموما زندان معنای مجازات اصلی برای جرایم رو دربرمیگیره هست و نگاه نسبتا جامع نویسنده و بررسی چندجانبه موضوع دید نسبتا خوبی در خصوص مسئله ی زندان به عنوان یک مجازات اصلی، موفقیتها و ناکارآمدی های اون به خواننده منتقل میکنه.
نکته ی مورد علاقه ی من در مورد این کتاب هوشمندی و صداقت نویسنده به ویژه در بیان معایب و بحرانهای زندان و نظام اقتصادی-سیاسی استفاده کننده از این سیستم تنبیهی بود.
As I said, if you are interested in how some modern institutions (or at least their certain elements) are intrinsically designed to control and discipline people and society, you will find many thoughtful insights in it...How did it happen that the execution of death penalty (which took most extreme and cruel forms in previous centuries) becomes more and more humanized, then in the end of the 18th - beginning of 19th centuries it is consistently removed from public space and loses it feature of a public spectacle with the imprisonment becoming the main criminal penalty?
The book starts with discussion about executions and other physical punishment, and seems to move suddenly to discussion of prisons with no real information given about why the change happened.
I don't feel like I learned those things, and I felt misled by the subtitle "The Birth of the Prison." If anybody knows of any other books which discuss the history of punishment, why we have prisons, what could exist instead of prison, etc.
Mr. Gatto's books have no bibliography to back them up, while Discipline & Punish seems painstakingly researched; in fact I've probably never seen a book with a larger bibliography.
If Foucault had known, for example, about the studies of Zimbardo and Milgram, he might have approached some of his ideas from a somewhat different angle, but I think that he would still end up in more or less the same place.Foucault describes the history of discipline and punishment from the medieval world of the monastery and the inquisition to modern penitentiaries and ideas of deterrence and rehabilitation.
These systems of organization and discipline became a key part of the mechanism of the industrial revolution and the modern world in general, which is only able to function effectively and achieve economies of scale by effective organization of masses of people.
يبدأ الكتاب بصور لوسائل التعذيب قبل القرنين الثامن عشر و التاسع عشر ، من حرق لسحل وصولا لتقطيع الأوص
He essentially says Enlightenment reform was actually insidious and bad for humanity.
In this way he is actually a conservative, by calling into question all the reasons for reform.
The fact that the left embraced this book, which was a grand critique of left wing reform ideology, is just another reason why the conservatives triumphed in the age of postmodernism, when leftists became their own worst enemy.
Internal debate is good, but without a moral compass and faith in reform, then you are lost.
I think/hope the left is regaining this and abandoning the poisons of postmodernism and its hand-maiden moral relativism.
Having previously been exposed to Foucault through a reader, it was nice to see a book-length context for his meditations on the birth of the prison. What impresses me most about Foucault are his abilities as a great synthesizer of knowledge, taking a vast body of textual evidence and orchestrating that evidence into a theoretically solid thesis, which is a skill that so few theorists seem to have. As a precise history, I have few quibbles with his reporting, and his theory seems completely valid. More or less universally recommended.
i first trudged through this book when i was in high school. being 17, i realized that i wasn't really understanding what he was saying, but for the first time, felt like i was exposed to an analysis that transcended dominant thought in a way that i didnt know was possible. for the next 3 years i read a lot of foucault..his understanding of the co-productive nature of knowledge and power gave me tools to deconstruct our funny world and truths. not to be too corny, but this shit changed my life. thanks foucault.
It was interesting, and presented a view on the evolution of criminal punishment that I hadn't considered in such a light before - I find, however, that much of it has already slipped away from memory.The principal thrust of the book is to present a view on how the punishment of felon's has evolved in western society from brutal, pain-filled tortures and executions meant to punish the victim for their effrontery to the monarch - stressing a personal offense on the part of the transgressor - to a very systematic and abstract approach meant to remove the convict from society and allow them to be kept under observation.
It did shake up some of the beliefs I'd obtained in elementary school about Patricia Mott and the prison reforms of the nineteenth century--reforms which were naturally part of the ever-progressive movement of the world led by the United States of America according to the secular religion we were inculcated with back then.It is, however, a fine, critical exposition of how prisons continue to fail in their ostensible purposes of deterring crime and reforming criminals, the pretensions of which have only grown over time.
It is good for Americans to be reminded that there's a world out there.A more challenging book for me would be one titled "Discipline and Punish: The History of Pedagogy".
Take this review with a grain of salt since I’d say about half of this book flew over my head completely.
The ideas in here about contemporary Western society’s obsession with ‘norms’ and the ways in which disciplinary, penal structures have woven their way into nearly every facet of postmodern life are really worth taking apart.
Maybe, when I’m hopefully a smarter guy someday, I can revisit this and grasp the parts that I missed or skimmed this time around.
But that didn’t prevent me from really loving the majority of this seminal text.
أشعر بالغيظ، فقد قلبت مكتبتي مرتين و أنا أبحث عنه عبثا، أذكر أني خبأته في مكان ما... و لكني نسيت أين خبأته... فقط لحسن الحظ أني لم أخبئ معه نقودي و إلا كانت ضاعت هي الأخرى معه... و لكني طمأنت نفسي بأنه ربما من حسن الحظ أكثر أن ليس لدي نقود تستحق أن أخبئها فأنسى أين وضعتها هي الأخرى فتضيع عليراودتني نفسي بقراءة النسخة الالكترونيةو لكني تراجعت عنها لأني كنت سأشعر بالغيظ مرتين من نفسي لأني سأكون أضعته مرتين حينها، مرة حين خبأته و مرة حين اشتريت النسخة الورقية عبثا و لم أقرأها... حسنا سأحاول البحث مرة أخرى:/-
This should be required reading if you plan to work in our criminal justice system at all. Foucault can be hard to slog through sometimes, but is always worth it. I just wonder what he would think of our current warehousing prison system. We haven't really gone the direction that he anticipated.
Straight to the re-read list this one goes.
It's literally the birth of the prison system covering discipline, capital punishment and deterrence (or lack of).
It's written in a very accessible way so anyone with an interest in the modern prison systems could certainly read this.
Of course, today's prison systems have devolved from their original purpose of punishing folks, perhaps even deterring crime.
But that's a topic for another book.The topics in the table of contents are torture, punishment and discipline.
Foucault goes into detail covering various issues under these broad topics.
