https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/633028.Little_Tim_and_the_Brave_Sea_Captain
Little Tim wants to be a sailor, but his parents tell him he's too young, even though his retired boatman friend has taught him all about ships.
If this were a modern publication I'm sure the point would be something about Tim missing his parents and realizing running away was a bad idea; he would soon be taken home and reunited with his parents, and gladly return to school.
When the captain tell his parents how hard working and brave Tim was, the agree that he can become a sailor after all.
Rather than plying children with over-the-top ACTION and NEON COLORS and ROBOTS EVERYWHERE (I mean robots are cool, just not everywhere, you know) and CARTOON VIOLENCE and EMBARRASSING SLANG THAT ADULTS THINK THEY GET (cough Geronimo Stilton is all this and worse cough), older children's books just tend to tell a very simple story.I do think it's weird that Little Tim's parents didn't seem to really care that much that he was gone, but the rest of the story is pretty neat, save for the pages when Tim is literally waiting for his death.
Longing to be a sailor and venture forth upon the sea, his parents tell him to wait for a long time until he is older.One day, Tim is given a ride to board a steamer.
Tim boarded the steamer and hid so that the boat man would forget him Little did he know that he would be put to work scrubbing the decks, helping the cook and running errands.
When a storm approached with wicked waves that tossed the boat to and fro, Tim learned that time at sea is not always joyous.Cute and whimsical, I enjoyed this story which I'm sure delighted many children throughout the history of the book.
My six year old daughter loved this book. I said "ugh but it's so long" and she said "that's why I like it!" She has a point though. Sometimes these older kids books with tons of text can be entertaining precisely because they don't dumb things down as much and expect readers to have a longer attention span.I liked all the period details and the depiction of sailing, being a castaway, running into a storm and general danger at sea. Nice illustrations in a washed out style. The repeated references to hot cocoa made me want hot cocoa. Recommended.
Little boy is friends w/the old single sailor who hangs out by the docks and goes to the old man's house by himself.
Sailor asks boy if he wants to go on his boat out to the ship docked in the harbor, boy says yes of course.
They get to the ship, boy hides from everybody, old sailor forgets him and goes back home.
Rescue boat drops them off at some port, boy takes train home and sees parents and old sailor waiting for him.
Boy them asks parents if he can go sailing w/the old sailor again.
It was a well told story!I just wish that the author had made more of a point about the error of running away by not awarding Tim in the end.
Still a good read and one older children should fully grasp.Ages: 4 - 9Cleanliness: Tim runs away from home.
I also have hundreds of detailed reports that I offer too.
These reports give a complete break-down of everything in the book, so you'll know just how clean it is or isn't.
I also have Clean Guides (downloadable PDFs) which enable you to clean up your book before reading it!
Visit my website: The Book Radar.
First in a series about the title character Tim who is according to the title little, this one he stows away on a ship and of course hijinks ensue. Average short read for the youngsters is fairly forgettable.
Excellent! A story for any age. Fun and adventurous!
A sweet little picture book about a boy who wants to go to sea, does so, and finds that it's more than he expected, in both good and bad ways.
نگاه نویسنده به دوران کودکی نگاه ارزشمندیه.
The boys like the action, I didn’t like the boy running away and consider that a brave thing.
You can read the summary of the story from the publisher, so I am not including another here.
Soooooo...while I would not cheer or respond so mildly if my child were to run away, the story of Tim's consequence and learning how to work were valuable.
The illustrations are in an beautiful older style, alternating color and black and white.
I wouldn't mind seeing more books in this style.
When I finished reading Tim's tale to my children they all looked to see what others are included the series.
At the end my 11-year-old said, "That's a good book."
I like, every now & again, to read books written for small boys about small boys...I was a small boy once a long time ago!...& this little gem, with lively illustrations by the celebrated author, really captures my boyhood sense of adventure & the promise of a world still relatively comprehensible - I never enjoyed stuff about dinosaurs, talking animals, space-ships or outer-space...I was always a realist!...my degree is in History!
But those were more naive & innocent days!...until the world lost its simplicity with Einstein, Stalin & Herr Hitler.

We have loved reading this book to our children and now to our grandchildren.Tim stows away on a boat and ends up on a long journey. The captain does not take kindly to stowaways and Tim is ordered to swab the deck.The cook and the captain of the ship warm to Tim and the adventure continues. Finally Tim's distraught mother is reunited with him.The illustrations are whimsically wonderful making for a terrific read aloud.
This is an older book and it shows in the thrills that the reader is exposed to. It seems the older books are more willing to put a child character in danger. This exciting tale has a little boy named Tim running away to sea and having many adventures there. It's a meaty story with quite a lot to it. I can't wait to read the others in the series.
I didn't dig this book. Even as a children's book, the story felt like it just dragged on and on. The artwork was nothing to write home about, and the message was little more than ok. Not for me. I'd skip it, unless you have a sincere desire to find a book that will teach sailing terms to a child. Then, I'd consider giving this a whirl.
The shit that done to a toddler in this book would get half of the characters indicted and sent to prison for a long time in all politically correct 2014. People longing for times of child beating, giving alcohol to babies, underage heavy labor, would enjoy this reminder how easy things were in good ole 1930's.
My sister gave me the whole Little Tim series and the kids love the stories of adventure and danger at sea. The illustrations are charming. Fun old-fashioned books for both the beginning reader and established reader. And a nice break from the endless chapter books (e.g., Harry Potter series).
Disse historiene ble skrevet i ca 1936, tror jeg? Norske bøkene kom vel på femtitallet, men uansett har de holdt seg greit. Barna ble underholdt, selv om vi måtte stoppe innimellom for å forklare sjø-uttrykk og ting som telegraf.
Who's watching that kid while he's off talking to seafaring strangers and hitching rides on steamships, LOL ;) Seriously, I did enjoy reading this one to my little boy. I'm hoping he doesn't get any ideas though.
I loved the artwork, and the two captains, but I didn't really like the story very much.
I love the art work in these books.
Quite the adventure for a little boy - so rather unrealistic, but to a child - very exciting and brave!
(Read with little sister as part of the "1,001 Children's Books To Read")Loved this story! I generally love nautical books, and this had a grand sweet story-line.
The perfect book for wild, adventurous, slightly insane little boys. And I'm going to start watching Santi better around boats.
My kids and I love these!
read for kid's lit course for my MLIS degree, 3-5 yrs section
930L
Edward Ardizzone is my favorite children's author/illustrator. Now I'm reading his books to a new generation! They are picture books for older children. My spellbound audience ranged from 4 to 11.
