https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/28763485-the-sun-is-also-a-star
The universe stops and waits for us.She opens her palm and she’s going to take my hand. She’s supposed to take my hand. We’re meant to walk through this world together. I see it in her eyes. We are meant to be. 2 1/2 stars. I tried. I'm sorry, but I tried. I just couldn't love this like I wanted to.My problem with Yoon's Everything, Everything was the twist. That awful twist. But her style was enjoyable and easy to read, so I was eager to give her books another shot. I was honestly ready to lov
I just couldn't love this like I wanted to.My problem with Yoon's Everything, Everything was the twist.
It's about Natasha - a Jamaican immigrant, science nerd and skeptic - and Daniel, a Korean-American poet rebelling against his family's desire for him to be a doctor.
The book opens when Natasha faces deportation that very evening, but an encounter with Daniel changes the course of her day, as he sets out to use science to make Natasha fall in love with him.Daniel is, quite literally, obsessed with Natasha from the very moment he sees her.
This was really great! I can't say why I docked a star, because it's spoilery, but I'll have a video review up soon going over my thoughts & what not.
This was excellent, I loved it! Here's my full booktalk: https://youtu.be/6tHgsZN9XWA
How this cover was created: https://youtu.be/SJkjaapoNkw
Romantic and adorable, with a perfect balance of heart-wrenching moments. Endlessly hopeful yet still grounded in reality. Pretty much everything I want from a YA contemporary. I'm two for two with Nicola Yoon books read and loved, so there's no doubt I'll be reaching for her next novel as soon as it comes out!
Within the first 20 pages of THE SUN IS ALSO A STAR, I knew I was reading something special, and within the first 50, I knew this was going to be one of my favorite books of 2016.
Their love story is anything but simple, and you will root for them until the very last page.
Nicola intersperses their story with beautifully wrought and deeply considered musings on other characters, physics, history, betrayal and family.
In doing so, she gave me one of my favorite paragraphs ever: "And what about the lovers who spend hours staring into each other's eyes?
This is a book about how the smallest gestures can form the biggest pictures, how the smallest actions can change the course of a life. How seeing a girl can change your life. How falling in love with your secretary can change the course of someone’s life forever. How swerving in a car can get two teens together. How calling a security officer can save her life. It sort of tore my heart into a million pieces.Fuck, okay. I don’t know how to explain how much I feel about this book.  “You were expe
This is a book about how the smallest gestures can form the biggest pictures, how the smallest actions can change the course of a life.
How falling in love with your secretary can change the course of someone’s life forever.
Before I lose all my credibility: yes, this book is about instalove, and yes, I ended up absolutely loving the relationship.
On one hand, we have Natasha, a science girl, complete icon, and illegal immigrant from Jamaica who is being deported at the end of the day after her father has been picked up.
I don’t think I have ever read a book crying so hard I couldn’t turn pages.
This book is incredibly beautiful in so many ways that I can't even begin to explain right now
Natasha and Daniel meet.
Unlike her, he believes in fate and love at first sight.
Well I’m not what you would call a *hopeless romantic*.
I love romance and definitely have my OTPs – Malec & Lamen – but I’m not easily swept off my feet in that department.
I especially cannot resist two people wanting to express their love but being extremely shy about it.Oh, it was adorable, okay?
I was surprised by the love experiment, however.
… Did I forget to mention that Natasha and Daniel cannot be together?
On a "perfect" fall day, seventeen-year-old Natasha Kingsley and her family are twelve hours away from being deported to Jamaica. Tasha decides to take a long shot and visit the United States Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) to hopefully convince someone to let her stay, to not pay for her father's mistake.“To be clear: I don’t believe in fate. But I’m desperate.”She's desperate to stay with her friends, her home, her livelihood for the past ten years. Despite the fact that she does
How long before she forgets that she was ever in America?”The Sun Is Also a Star has a switching narrative between two main characters, which made the story flow easily.Side note: I liked that when a side character was mentioned in one chapter, they got to have a history page in the next one.Our second narrator, Daniel Jae Ho Bae, is an aspiring poet who writes in his Moleskine notebook—poems about heartbreak, even though he’s never had his heart broken...
I eventually fell in love with the storytelling, really appreciating the insight we get into how Daniel & Natasha's story changes peoples lives in so many ways.
The combination of these two cultures created an interesting dynamic in itself.My favorite thing about this story was the ending (which is especially intersting because it's not directly from Natasha or Daniels' POV, which really shows how my feelings turned around.) It's definitely one of those endings that leaves at a point for growth, for development, and for hope.
It definitely brought the story together in a way that stayed true to the unique nature of the entire book.I definitely loved The Sun Is Also A Star.
*Received an advanced reader copy for review from the publisher*I liked this one even more than "Everything, Everything." Nicola Yoon is just an amazing writer. Definitely a staple for your contemporary collection.Video review to come!!
DNF AT 30% in. I'm sure it's just me, but I just couldn't connect with the characters. Everything was a bit too unrealistic (even for my taste); I just couldn't buy all this falling in love in less than 24 hours and it felt a bit cheesy. Maybe it's poor timing of reading this one or maybe it's just not for me.
The thing is, though, Daniel isn't sure he wants to follow that path—he sees himself as more of a poet—but the truth is, he doesn't feel like he needs to decide his future when he's 17.Natasha has her future planned out: college and a career as a data scientist.
I didn't feel like this book fell into the trap that plagues many YA novels, where the characters are more erudite and sarcastic than people twice or three times their age.In the end, I truly felt this in my heart.
“We have big, beautiful brains. We invent things that fly. Fly. We write poetry. […] We are capable of big lives. A big history. Why settle? Why choose the practical thing, the mundane thing? We are born to dream and make the things we dream about.” Reread and this book still speaks my language. It still makes my heart ache to the fullest and gives me hope like no other. I remember reading this book around the same time last year and feeling that it came to me at a specific point in my life whe
I remember reading this book around the same time last year and feeling that it came to me at a specific point in my life when I needed to hear the above quote.
First 5-star book of the year.
This book just spoke to my soul, and this is just a side tangent, but it's really amazing to see what books come your way, or what books you decide to read depending on how you want to look at things, actually speak to your life at the moment in time.
It's this feeling of epiphany of being understood and particular books (and God) guiding your life somehow into a direction you always knew to be right for you.
My heart aches but I'm so happy at the same time. HOW DOES SHE DO THIS?Here's my review - https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Swubk...
The third POV of the universe was such a nice feature and extended your thinking beyond the love story between the two main characters.And there's so many things I could compliment beyond the actual plot.
There are so many threads, so many things working together to make this book strong, and they all hold up in the end.I absolutely loved our characters.
I was rooting for them.The only downfall to this book was that since it takes place during only one day, the instalove was real.
This book is so beautiful I am crying??????? So many emotions?????I really loved Natasha and Daniel. A lot. I loved that this story in any other context would be insta love and essentially was but because there was so much character development and how long it was it didn't feel like it. I loved being in New York City with them. I loved their whole day it was so great. Also the epilogue was everything??? And I need a sequel novella like NOW.

*sighs happily*before i get into what i loved about this, i should say that there is no way the plot was realistic or plausible to me.
no way, josé!i thought this was such a great story exploring how intense and genuine young love can be.
many people tend to discount teenage feelings, claiming ‘youll know what real love is when youre older.’ but i adored how this story made the point that just because youre young doesnt mean you feel love any less.i also really appreciated how different, but well suited, the two characters were.
so once again nicola yoon has made me fall in love with young love.
So adorable! I loved everything about it...except for one thing. (Just like with EVERYTHING, EVERYTHING, interestingly enough.)Review to come.
1.5 starsWarning: This reviews is just mostly gifs.I probably should have done this before reviewing this book. This is more my style though.. So you now have been warned. Keep reading if you want. If you are a fangirl troll..please know this: Because this book was just stupid. FOR ME! Half of GR loves it. More than half actually. Go and love their reviews.The book is told in choppy little chapters, from multiple points of view. This really could have worked, it's worked for me before. There was
Half of GR loves it.
Go and love their reviews.The book is told in choppy little chapters, from multiple points of view.
There was not enough to make me give two craps about it though.You have Natasha, she is being deported on the very day that the book takes place.
I don't want any trolling so before you start, I'm all for immigration and mixed relationships, for anything else this book portrays.
I somewhat liked Daniel better than the rest of these characters.
Because it's meant to be.It was meant to be that this book totally lost me.
This was a nice little book with a sweet story. A great book for a simple escape. While the scenarios in it are highly improbable, if you can suspend your disbelief for a few hours, it is quite charming.Lots of chapters. Lots of SHORT chapters. I LOVE SHORT CHAPTERS! I needed a book with short chapters since I am currently reading (or have recently read) some books with loooooooog chapters. I enjoyed this as much as Everything Everything. Looks like I can continue to count on Yoon for a simple getaway.
She came to America when she was eight and she's now going into her senior year and doesn't want to leave her friends and life.
Natasha and Daniel meet in the city by what you might want to call fate.
I didn't like that it took FOREVER for Natasha to tell Daniel that she was being deported but I digress.
I also love how the book is told not as an ending with Natasha and Daniel but with a continuation of all the things that happened with them and their families.
It's Natasha last day in New York and she is scrambling to figure out a way to stop her family from being deported back to Jamaica.
Daniel the son of South Korean immigrants has always been an obedient son yet second best to his older brother Charlie.
On his way to his interview Daniel sees Natasha and is captivated.
This book was honestly so adorable and Daniel kills me like sweet and smart earnest boys are my weakness damn it and I'm in love with Daniel honestly.
This could've so easily been another cliché, sappy teenage love story.
Nicola Yoon took the familiar elements from young adult contemporary novels—yes, even "insta-love"—and managed to create something original.
(view spoiler)[I really liked how she tied Irene into the story again to create something more profound than a love story.
And I liked how she jumped ahead in time to show that teenage romance might be temporary, but that doesn't mean it isn't important.
And I liked how she gave them another chance.
(hide spoiler)]Overall, a lovely and surprising read.
I mean, I liked a YA contemporary romance?
A constellation-worthy love story. I can't wait for you all to read this one.
The plot summary on the inside jacket of the book almost made me throw up, and I got really dizzy from all the eye rolling.
Yeah, it's all fun and young adult as all get out just like her last book, but this tackles some pretty heavy themes much more directly.
It all felt kind of nice as an interlude from time to time, but these things often came back up al the way to the end.
The end was my favorite part of the book.
And so, once again, I've tried my best to not like a Nicola Yoon book.
HANDS DOWN MY FAVORITE CONTEMPORARY BOOK OF THE YEAR!It was beautiful.It was magical.It was heartbreaking.It dealt with immigration, strained family life, racism, it had diversityIt was a beautiful, beautiful book.Please listen to this book, I LOVED the audio version to pieces!
My spoiler free video review is now up on my channel!: https://youtu.be/XdtcQVXo1jATruly one of the best books I have ever read.
Well hello favorite book I've read so far this year. And also one of my favorite books of all time.
