https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/40642172-this-savage-song
She liked the idea that there were a hundred different Kates, living a hundred different lives. Maybe in one of them, there were no monsters. 3 1/2 stars. Okay, listen: I feel like I shouldn't like this book. Compare this world to the marvelous multiple Londons, crossdressing pirates and evil twin rulers of the author's A Darker Shade of Magic, and hell, does it pale in comparison. But screw it - this was dark, monstrous fun!Thing is, there are those books you read and you know they are good in
But screw it - this was dark, monstrous fun!Thing is, there are those books you read and you know they are good in an objective way (or as close as is possible).
For me, This Savage Song was the latter - a pageturning paranormal thriller with creepy monster rhymes, betrayals and an evil cliffhanger at the end of most of the chapters (I both love and hate when authors do that - don't they understand I need to sleep?!)Yes, this is a world of monsters: the flesh-eating Corsai, the blood-drinking Malchai, and the rarest, most mysterious of all: the soul-stealing Sunai.
ETA: I just did my final, final read-through of this book, and I have to say, it was a messy road, and a long revision, but I am really freaking proud of the result.
Sin City PLUS Romeo and Juliet MINUS romance PLUS monsters.This is the strangest book I've ever written.
It's the story of two teens in a broken world, where violent acts breed actual monsters.
Those feed on souls.
Why song?Remember when I said that August was a monster?
He’s not just any kind of monster, but one of only three soul-eaters in the city.
A song played by two very different teens trying to survive a very broken world.
*Full video review can be found here: https://youtu.be/v8lOwIbJZtUI went into this knowing I would love it, but I'm leaving it loving it even more than I expected to. I'm constantly impressed by Schwab's ability to create such unique stories. The two main characters had such a fantastic dynamic & I loved seeing their interactions. The story itself left me wanting more & I'm sososo happy that we get another book with August & Kate. (Also I really want August & Kate to meet up with Mackenzie & Wesley. ;D)
ugh so good.
For a book with such an epic setting, this one is quite generic. The setting is pretty awesome, I mean, imagine a post-apocalyptic world where monsters roam free. “Corsai, Corsai, tooth and claw,Shadow and bone will eat you raw.Malchai, Malchai, sharp and sly,Smile and bite and drink you dry.”“Sunai, Sunai, eyes like coal,Sing you a song and steal your soul.” Hell, one of our protagonists is a monster himself. But outside of the setting itself, I found this book emotionless and just...rather dul
For a book with such an epic setting, this one is quite generic.
But outside of the setting itself, I found this book emotionless and just...rather dull.First, the main character.
I disliked her from the first page, as she ruthlessly set fire to a school run by nuns for the grand, noble reason of "I don't want to be here."
No. I want a character with inner strength.
Honestly, I felt like both of the characters had no personality at all.
These characters are just flat.The storytelling was not to my tastes.
I have not read Schwab's books before.
NOW EXCUSE ME WHILE I GO READ THE SEQUEL (which is finnnnnally mine) AND PROBABLY CONTINUE TO SPIRAL INTO DEEP DARK LOVE FOR SCHWAB'S WORK.Monsters are my favourite.(Shh it's normal I swear.)
Gah, I just love that kind of story, okay?!But I will fully confess: I found the first 20% really confusing.
*suffocates with love* Plus, one thing I was REALLY fond of in this book was the representation of sensory overload.
But, as a person who suffers with sensory overload, when August's monster-melt-downs were described I related so much I wanted to cry.
But August is a monster who wishes he wasn't.
It was totally different from anything I've read before!
The world was structured in a very unique way, and both main characters were so likable that reading this book was a pleasure.
It was a story that captured me right from the start and held my attention all the way to the end.
If it develops into a love story in the future, I would be OVER THE MOON but it was really refreshing to read a book that wasn't built off of a love story.
I would recommend this book to ANYONE with a love for fantasy, monsters, dystopian-ish post war settings, strong characters, unique government structure, and a thrilling tale!
He controls some of the monsters and he's pretty evil.
Kate tries to be evil like her father.
August Flynn is a sunai and his father (that took him in) is Henry Flynn.
He is a good guy trying to keep the bad monsters and people at bay.
And trying to keep a peace treaty among said monsters.
I loved both characters of August and Kate.
And contrary to what she ever thought, she becomes a monsters friend instead of his enemy.
Together August and Kate have to fight some enemies that are trying to cause a war.
I enjoyed learning about the monsters.
I have no earthly idea why this has been sitting on my physical and digital shelves for so long; I kept meaning to pick it up, but then I would remember the sequel wasn't coming out until the twelfth of never, and other books were shiny or more pressing, and alas, I would reach for a proper book that was more along the lines of required reading.
During the first 100 pages, we are left in the dark about many of the going ons, and we are slowly filled in, which gave me all the tinglies in my suspense-loving bones.
someone alert the vatican because there has been a miracle - i read a book about monsters and i actually enjoyed it!?!
this was my first schwab experience and let me tell you what.
the story itself was pretty good.
but i just let myself go along for the ride and was pleasantly surprised.
so even though the plot was a little so-so, the characters and writing definitely made up for it!
cant wait to pick up the next book and see what becomes of my little monster.
But come on, let’s get to the main attraction - I want to talk about how fucking great the characters are for a while!!
A book using a enemies-to-besties platonic friendship as its key dynamic is everything I have ever wanted.
But really, what makes this so great is the fact that the whole book, the entire thing, is based off the monster vs.
August is a monster who is ashamed of it and wants to be human.
Do you know how much I’m screaming !!!!!!!!So, yeah, a ridiculously tense book about two people dealing with their own monster v.
human conflicts set in a ridiculously compelling world.
4.5*I really really enjoyed this! I loved the world, the characters, and basically just everything about it. I'll do a video review soon!
5 Stars “Monsters, monsters, big and small,"They're gonna come and eat you all. So, I totally wasn’t expecting to love this so much?? I’ve read Schwab’s A Darker Shade of Magic series, and then everything I’d seen suggested this wasn’t as good. But I enjoyed it so much more?? (Sacrilege! I know. I know.)Something about this dark, egregious atmosphere  clawed it’s way into my cold, dead heart. Taking place in an alternate US where the states reconstructed after Vietnam, the story had the potentia
I know.)Something about this dark, egregious atmosphere  clawed it’s way into my cold, dead heart.
Taking place in an alternate US where the states reconstructed after Vietnam, the story had the potential to feel like so many other YA dystopias.
Don’t do it’ it message-- instead this is filled with morally ambiguous characters.
It’s not an easy "I’ll feed off animals and be a good vampire"  solution, but a struggle for him to find something he can live with.
Kate is so desperate to find her place in her father’s city and feel at home, that she’s been systematically trying to get rid of her own humanity.
August, a Sunai monster, hopelessly clinging to his wish to be human.And on top of this badass premise, no fucking love story.But for all of those unique elements, this book could not be saved from its own mediocrity.
It sounds excellent to have a male lead who is vulnerable and searching for his humanity.But somewhere in the process of breathing life into these characters, Schwab missed the mark.No matter how much I wanted to care about these characters, I didn't.
"It began with a bang."HOOOLY SHIIIIT. I'M NOT OKAY IN THE SLIGHTEST. V.E HAS DONE IT AGAIN, EVERYONE.      How am I supposed to put all these emotions into one tiny little review? It's just not possible. There are too many good things to say about This Savage Song. The beautifully complex characters that are August and Kate, a storyline unlike anything I've read, and most of all: Victoria's writing. She creates a wonderful atmosphere, a story that just flows effortlessly, and VFHJSKL I just can
"It began with a bang."HOOOLY SHIIIIT.
I'M NOT OKAY IN THE SLIGHTEST.
How am I supposed to put all these emotions into one tiny little review?
It's just not possible.
There are too many good things to say about This Savage Song.
The beautifully complex characters that are August and Kate, a storyline unlike anything I've read, and most of all: Victoria's writing.
BASICALLY: Victoria Schwab writes in ways that I could only wish to.
Anyway, full review to come!
Basically, unlike anything I've ever read.
“Can I tell you a secret?”“Of course,” said Rachel.Kate leaned in and brought her lips to the girl’s ear.
Although my Booktubeathon wasn't as successful as I had hoped, I'm still so glad I took part, and that I caused me to reread TSS. The first time I read it I kind of rushed through it, and this time I got to really take my time and enjoy it fully. I love Kate and August so much, and I love this dark and sinister world. Really excited to read Our Dark Duet very soon!
Excuse me while I go buy every Victoria Schwab book in existence.
I freaking love the title of this book!3.5 STARS "I am Sunai. I am holly fire. And if i have to burnthe world to cleanse it, so help me, i will." Just want to put it out there, my favorite character wasn't Kate, or August, IT WAS LEO! But i'm not going to talk about the plot or the characters. It's better if you find out yourself. This was a decent read. As always, i enjoyed Victoria's writing, but something was missing. It just wasn't as epic as her other books. I still applaud you, Schwab, for
I freaking love the title of this book!3.5 STARS
Just want to put it out there, my favorite character wasn't Kate, or August, IT WAS LEO!
But i'm not going to talk about the plot or the characters.
As always, i enjoyed Victoria's writing, but something was missing.
It just wasn't as epic as her other books.
I feel like most books i read have that same old plot, cliche characters, especially in YA.
It also could be challenging for an author to write multiple books that aren't similar.
Victoria Schwab writes 'em like a pro!
I saw this more like a prequel.
This Savage Song had all of this, but much less than her previous works.Plot:This is such a promising story, such an exciting dystopian setting.
I don't need romance...but I can't lie that it makes things a little more exciting.
But a little love in the sequel would spice things up nicely.The story was also slightly predictable, the writing adding to its predictability.
Sometimes a little repetitive, I often expected what was coming next and foresaw several smaller and bigger details.Characters:Fan of August, not a fan of Kate.
Both of them lacked somewhat in character depth in my opinion.In a nutshell: Great work, but lacking in finesse in several aspects.
I'm between 4.5 and 5 stars, but heck, I'll round up!So when I finished devouring this book last night before I went to bed, I tried to think of the best way to sum up my feelings. Sometimes when I'm at a loss for words I turn to those more articulate than I am, so:   Ah, thanks, Oprah!It is a time in the (hopefully very) distant future. At one point, monsters tried to take control of a city. It led to massive destruction, but ultimately a truce was reached which divided the city. One half is ru
The other half of the city is run by the more noble-minded Flynn, who wants to keep his residents safe by controlling the monsters, not harnessing them as pawns in a shakedown.Neither side has complete support, as the truce seems to be weakening.
But she must battle not only her father's ambition and his memories of her late mother, but also the monster he has trained as his second in command.When Kate is sent to another school in town, Flynn and his followers jump at the chance to get someone close to her, to watch for signs the truce may be breaking.
. Schwab's characters are always relatable, to a lesser or greater degree, but Kate and August appear to have something, a kind of vulnerability, I think, that makes them extremely open, exposed to the reader's eye, and thus to his heart.
I just think that books such as Vicious and the Shades have something that makes them superior, even though I am not one hundred percent sure it is due to the different target.•The ending I refuse to acknowledge because even though it's not a real cliffhanger I need to know what happens next.
The beautiful thing about books was that anyone could open them.  I did it! I finally read a book by author Victoria Schwab. My journey has finally started and although it wasn't a great start, it doesn't end here. She has so many books published and more are coming up that I need to understand what all the hype is about. My journey actually began when I started reading A Darker Shade of Magic back in 2016, but I stopped reading it. There's no reason behind it. I really just put my bookmark on
I don't usually read something like this, but I knew Victoria's writing style and I knew most of her YA books had a form of dark and gritty style, which is why I wanted to finally give this author a chance.
I knew August and Kate wanted to be different than who they were seen as, but I didn't expect it to end that way.
Overall, This Savage Song was not the best way to start this journey of Victoria Schwab but I'm really glad she writes differently than other YA authors.
i'm about to say it...i finally get the Schwab appeal.if, like, i close one eye and try really hard.review to come!!-------CURRENTLY-READING UPDATEhelp, i can't stop reading YA fantasy and i don't know who i am anymore
HOW DID I FORGET THAT ENDING?!
Initial review:[4.5] That ending!!
More!!!As per usual, I always have the best time reading one of V.E. Schwab's books.
This is the fourth book I've read by her and it did not disappoint.
She constantly delivers when it comes to her flawless, entrancing and almost graceful-like writing style, the complex, but lovable characters and the unique plot.
Having said that though, I can't as of now, point out a fault or a flaw in this book either.
I want to be surrounded by those characters and be in that world again.
it's like that ghost gif where you're waiting for that creepy jump scare but what you get is a guy with a white sheet on him, going around saying "booo."here are some pros:-i loved how Schwab has non existent romance in her books.
while there was a hell of a slow and boring plot, the writing made it all easier and i legit flew through this book.
i felt like Schwab just goes over the top to make her female characters extremely badass.
(first it was Lila with her annoying reckless behavior and now Kate.) ok so, being badass doesn't mean you threaten/hurt innocent people.
oh but Kate Harker wouldn't give a fuck because she's badass like that, oh yeah!
If the fact that opinions differ doesn't strike me as unusual - suffice it to take a look at most romance novels' pages to see radically different ratings - it still contributed to my confusion before reading because mixing most of them would lead to a hell of an oxymoron.
(because yes, I'm one of these people who think that there's nothing grey or "blurred" about consent) But most of the words written in a review are opinions and are linked to so many factors : the number of books read in that genre, the personal tastes, the current mood, etc, etc.
Very good book! Not my favourite Schwab novel but one of the tops!Loved the writing style and characters. Victoria really knows how to weave amazing and deep characters!
Time for another giveaway! Win a signed copy of This Savage Song!And the winner has been emailed! If you entered, please check the email you entered with
Something I cannot compare it to because that was just something else.JESUS, TAKE THE WHEEL BECAUSE I'M LOSING MY SHITI really don't even know where to begin with writing a semi-good review for this...I feel like no matter what I say, it will not do it's justice for how great this book is.If you are like me and left it this long to read it, please pick this up.It's set in such a cool dystopian, fantasy setting, and normally its something I no longer gravitate towards as but this was so different and exciting.Please know that this is my opinion, and you may think that it's completely false and bonkers, but I couldn't help but shake the feeling that this was like if Divergent and City of Bones loved each other very, very much and they had a baby...

