https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/9418327-bossypants
I don't know that expecting much from a comedy writer's cash-in big-font-with-pictures essay/memoir...thing...is fair, but I've been a Tina Fey fan since 30 Rock began, ready to trust her literary aspirations, and even to me this book barely scratches onto the two star plateau.What did I expect?
I wasn't looking forward to insecure ramblings about the long hours she put into Saturday Night Live and 30 Rock.
I didn't pick this book up whispering, under my breath, “Make me laugh right NOW, Tina Fey!
I just hope next time Fey writes a better book.
I ended up picking this up because when I sent up a signal flare on Twitter, it was the most recommended book by far.
(I like autobiography being read by the author, but not all authors are good narrators.) 2.
I became a fan by listening to it.I'm probably one of the few people that's going to start watching the show because of the book, rather than the other way around.
I suspect that some of the low-to-mediocre ratings on here might come from people who were expecting her personal voice to be more like that of the character she plays.
I'm listening to the audiobook and it's even better than the print.
• She has a girl crush on Amy Poehler and a work crush on Alec Baldwin (whom she gives way too much credit for the success of 30 Rock, IMO).• She refuses to hire/work for jerks and she's not above using this book to get revenge on those who've criticized women's ability to be funny (on the success of the Sarah Palin-Hilary Clinton sketch she did with Amy: "That night's show was watched by 10 million people and I guess that director at The Second City who said the audience "didn't want to see a sketch with two women" can go shit in his hat.")• She writes lines that seriously just make you bust a gut: "Do I think Photoshop is being used excessively?
Provided you like all that self-deprecating "I'm Tina Fey and I am enormously successful and I am thankful for that, but at the same time I still struggle with being a working woman with a real life, because it is so weird that I am a media icon when I still really think of myself as an unpopular high school theater dweeb, and isn't life weird, like when I was seen as a major influence during the last election because I kind of look like Sarah Palin?" stuff.Personally, Tina Fey is a little too successful for me.
Can't you just be cool?[Man leaves]Jenna: That guy wanted to buy you a drink!Liz: Really?
Which is what made me the man I am, I do do.Liz: Yeah, you do.Jack: Grow up, Lemon.
Where do you invest your money, Lemon?Liz: I've got like twelve grand in checking.Jack: Are you an immigrant?
I wasn't expecting much, obviously, but this "book" fails to live up to even the exceeding low standards of airport bookstores.
I liked Tina Fey before I read this book.
I like her far less now.
If you only have 100 pages of material then write a 100 page book, there is no shame in that, or perhaps you can just up the font size to 20 points because the 16 you used isn't quite large enough to be read from space.
(It's also my opinion that liberals who repeatedly uses the term 'African American' are probably closet racists.
Actually that's less my opinion then it is a hard fact.)
Thoroughly enjoyed listening to this!
I think Tina Fey is awesome.
I think this is a slight but solid book.
It's sometimes funny, sometimes self-deprecating, sometimes empowering.
I think it's an easier thing to do if you're David Sedaris and nobody has specific stories that they want to hear from you.
Tina Fey writes as if she is obligated to spend time on certain things: her Palin impression, her scar, etc., and then she has less time to touch on other things.
All in all, it's a solid book of anecdotes that could have been a little bit more.
Anecdotes--those that matter to us, TV/film buffs of the world--are soooo ridiculously scant!
Its akin to ridiculing a very unique life with a distanced neverwarm life story.
Impersonal, cutesy, with a sinful-zero amount of compelling stories of life in the comedic fast lane.
Its interesting to note just how much more personal, more giving (into their brilliant minds, their methods and techniques, their own sides of the tabloid tale....etc.) other comedic autobiographies are then Fey's (Pohlers, Dratchs, Silverman's...).
Still, Fey is obviously (obviously!) a pioneer*.*& its probably my fault I got almost nothing out of "Bossy..."
One of two things, either a straight ahead comedic book with plenty of anecdotes, jokes and maybe a bit of behind-the-scenes info, or a personal memoir, with detail about her background.
I felt that Fey committed to neither fully and wound up producing half of both in a book that was inconsistent and at times very thin.
After reading this book, do you feel that you know Fey any better than you did before?
You would never come home with a shamrock tattoo in that house.” Yet TF offers us very little about him and virtually nothing about how his personality affected her growing up.
Tina Fey. American Icon.  Some people say, “Never let them see you cry.” I say, if you’re so mad you could just cry, then cry. It terrifies everyone. I really appreciated how this novel had a good mix of heartwarming anecdotes, comedic happenstances and career musings. While I am not as familiar with her SNL and early career, this book was fun and easy to listen to.As with many a memoir, we start with her childhood love of comedy  and processed to her current-day adventures (or perhaps more acc
I really appreciated how this novel had a good mix of heartwarming anecdotes, comedic happenstances and career musings.
While I am not as familiar with her SNL and early career, this book was fun and easy to listen to.As with many a memoir, we start with her childhood love of comedy  and processed to her current-day adventures (or perhaps more accurately: misadventures) A running theme to this novel was the importance of being yourself: 
Her early career was sporadic and difficult - breaking into the comedy scene was no easy task but she made it - by being bossy and taking no Sht from no one.
Who said women aren't funny? A lot of people, apparently, most of them men. One of these was Christopher Hitchens, the controversial journalist who published an essay in Vanity Fair titled, quite plainly,  Why Women Aren't Funny . To this and to the dozen other polemics written about the perceived humor gap between men and women, Tina Fey, in her new book called Bossypants, says, "We don't fucking care if you like it." She adds,Unless one of these men is my boss, which none of them is, it's irre
. To this and to the dozen other polemics written about the perceived humor gap between men and women, Tina Fey, in her new book called Bossypants, says, "We don't fucking care if you like it." She adds,Unless one of these men is my boss, which none of them is, it's irrelevant.
Fey was one of the three funny women in that cast.My dream for the future is that sketch comedy shows become a gender-blind meritocracy of whoever is really the funniest.
There’s a chapter in this book where Tina Fey is describing the hectic week that culminated with her filming scenes of 30 Rock with Oprah Winfrey, then rushing to get to the Saturday Night Live studio for her debut performance as Sarah Palin all while she was still making last minute arrangements for her daughter’s birthday party.
As Tina puts it:“By the way, when Oprah Winfrey is suggesting you may have overextended yourself, you need to examine your fucking life.”What makes that line extra funny is that while Fey writes about the long hours and stress of doing her TV show and movies, that she went ahead and wrote a book, too.
After 5 and half hours listening to this book i'm not even smiling ! i mean YES there was some funny scenes but mostly just some boring and long stories... Meh :3 i LOVE Tina fey, i loved her movies, she's talented woman i just couldn't enjoy her book as much as I hoped I would. it had some funny scenes, but nothing was "laugh out loud funny"
I know it's a total cliché to read a book and say you want to be friends with the author, but I want to be friends with Tina Fey (and I really think it could happen!) The tale of a suburban girl finding her voice and making her way in the still entirely too male world of comedy felt so specific and true...and her stories about her husband and her daughters are total #relationshipgoals.
I listened to this on audiobook, and I'm so glad I did! I can't imagine how much less fun this would have been without Tina's actual voice. (I'm not saying the book was boring, Tina is just perfect and makes everything better always.)
This book is perfection. Undoubtedly one of the best biographies I have ever read. Mrs Fey is an amazing comedian. You still hear people say women aren't funny. Luckily we have kickass women like Tina Fey, Amy Poehler, Maya Rudolph, Kristen Wiig and Melissa McCarthy to prove them wrong.
I've said it before and I'll say it again: Bryan Cranston and Shonda Rhimes have the best celebrity memoirs out there. They're the exception.'Bossypants'- not my cup of tea. Oh, and parts of it were flat out racist. I'm beginning to think two stars is a tad generous. Maybe celebrity memoirs just aren't for me. I don't find them appealing, entertaining or really funny (as some claim to be). Up next: Aziz Ansari's 'Modern Romance.'(What?! I didn't say I was gonna stop reading celebrity books)
Hilarious autobio that touches upon the highs and lows of Tina Fey's life and career.
I say going any deeper would not be the point of Bossypants.Edition Note: I'm reviewing the audiobook and I can't see why anyone would want to enjoy this book any other way.
Fey is a great writer, but she's also a really good performer.
And here, you get her performing her own material, literally her own life.
If you think you can do better justice to this work with your own reading interpretation, then by all means go for it....Just realize you are wrong.
Anyway, I like Tina because she's funny in the way I would be funny if I were actually capable of being funny on a regular basis.
I listened to the audio book, which is really the only way to go with this one, because face it, delivery is everything.
Tina Fey is the only person I know of who has used the words "cavernous vagina" in a sentence.
Fey is not suitable for the easily offended.]And by the way, when I first saw the cover of this book, I thought it was called BossyPARTS.
Left me wondering which of Tina's parts were the bossy ones.
4.5 starsI know I am seven years late to this party, but damn was this funny and on point.
Ah the things Tina didn't know when she wrote this and yet she still brought up - the #MeToo movement that hadn't arrived yet, Hilary Clinton running for President again, hell there's even a Trump reference in this book!
But ignoring all of those yet-to-happen things that she still somehow managed to allude to like some kind of weird comedic prophet, this book was downright funny and relatable.
Well, as relatable as someone who is on tv can be anyways.
I love Tina Fey. But I loved her more before I read this book.
I loved her use of the term “car creepery," which refers to guys who sexually harass girls on the sidewalk from the safety of their cars.
I love that she yelled “Suck my dick!” to some random car creeper when she was thirteen.
I loved the list of things that can be "wrong" with a woman’s body (fupa, cankles, muffin top, crotch biscuits), her "Remembrances of Being Very Very Skinny," and "Remembrances of Being a Little Bit Fat." I almost wish she had written an entire book about her feministy thoughts.
I figured I would feel exactly about this book as I do about Tina Fey. 90% of the time, I think she's hilarious and smart and I want to be friends with her and I wish I'd thought to say what she said.
A strong father figure is a big deal.There are several things in this book that make me think Tina and I are soul sisters.
I not only like some of her descriptions of "Don Fey", but the point she makes about him when others meet him:My dad has visited me at work over the years, and I've noticed that powerful men react to him in a weird way.
I was expecting more funny.
Having read a small portion of this book online (A Mother's Prayer) and having found that very entertaining, I had high hopes for this book.
And I should say, it's not a bad read.
It's just not that funny.
I laughed out loud maybe once, and smiled a few times more.
Maybe as a script, it'd be great.Note: The rest of this review has been withdrawn due to the recent changes in Goodreads policy and enforcement.
You can read why I came to this decision here.In the meantime, you can read the entire review at Smorgasbook
Listening to Tina Fey perform this book was much more enjoyable than reading it in print.
Tina also had great stories about her youthful adventures in a summer theater program, her experience with the Second City improv group in Chicago, and how she got her start on Saturday Night Live.Tina is good at making fun of herself and her accidental celebrity status.
'How much rehearsal time are you going to get?' 'Do you have tapes of her to listen to?' 'You're going there right after this?!' (By the way, when Oprah Winfrey is suggesting you may have overextended yourself, you need to examine your fucking life.)"Another favorite section of the book is when Tina shares her theory that the Rules of Improvisation can change your life.
Fey narrates the book herself and her voice is easy to listen to in terms of pitch and pacing and she is entertaining as all get-out because I could actually envision the facial expressions she was making while telling stories about a girl in college who was too feminine to handle an entire piece of Trident gum, Sarah Palin offering her daughter as a babysitter to Fey's daughter at an SNL taping, and the faces she made while she was dictating fake responses to online trolls who wrote inane online comments about her talent, body, and sense of humor.
And not just "laugh out loud" funny, but "laugh *so* out loud your spouse asks you to go read in another room because you're keeping him awake." If you enjoy Tina Fey's humor, you'll really appreciate this book.
But Fey raises some excellent questions about how women treat each other, being a working mom, dealing with institutionalized sexism, and other hilarious topics!I found myself wanting to know a bit more about SNL, or 30 Rock, but she keeps those experiences (and her personal life) at a pretty surface level.
My only gripe is that it's a little hard to tell what this book is trying to be.
A dude drove by and yelled, "Nice tits." Embarrassed and enraged, I screamed after him, "Suck my dick." Sure, it didn't make any sense, but at least I didn't hold in my anger." An ideal palette cleanser after my recent A Song of Ice and Fire binge (also known as Murder-and-Rapefest '12), Tina Fey's memoir is a fun, brief (I started and finished it in one day) little glimpse into the mind of the woman who created Mean Girls, 30 Rock, a better Sarah Palin than Sarah Palin, and many other things that I love.
In my opinion, Tina Fey is a gifted comic and while I know I’m really late to the party on this memoir (actually I think every last piece of confetti has been picked up by now), I’m so glad I waited until I could listen to her narrate it.
The audio includes the first time Tina and Amy performed as Palin and Clinton and I was doubled over with laughter listening to that skit again, immediately went to You Tube to watch it and I suggest you do as well.
I highly recommend the audio version of Bossy Pants to fans of Tina Fey and to the rest of the mole people living under my rock…you won’t be disappointed.
Listen to the audiobook for this one--Tina read its, and she's brilliantly hilarious!
