https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/15351.The_Return_of_the_Shadow
As far as I was concerned we already had what Tolkien was willing and able to publish in The Hobbit and LoTR (and even something he hadn’t yet been able to publish in his lifetime in the form of The Silmarillion) so the appeal for me of seeing early drafts and material that the author himself had either superseded or conceivably felt was unpublishable didn’t seem like an appealing prospect.
[Here I'll review the whole History of the Lord of the Rings together: [book:The Return of the Shadow], The Treason of Isengard, The War of the Ring, and The End of the Third Age.]Christopher Tolkien, son of a famous father, has edited the rough drafts of The Lord of the Rings and presents (in every possible detail) the history of the composition.
Other, IMO far more important, is how LOTR evolved from "The Hobbit" sequel to work we know today.
This is shown mostly in evolution of elf characters, though Aragorn still doesn't exist (Strider was first called Trotter and was a hobbit).Another interesting thing about these initial manuscripts is that some parts of them that were later rejected or changed were used in making of LOTR movies (e.g. farmer Maggot being angry and not helpful as in final LOTR version).Overall, an interesting book if you are interested in thought process that went into writting of LOTR.
No sólo hay hasta seis versiones diferentes de los primeros capítulos, sino que cada versión se corrige una y otra vez con tinta de diferentes colores, y Christopher nos lo cuenta todo, haciendo su texto confuso :-)Aunque siempre he leído "El Señor de los Anillos" en inglés, he leído este libro de Christopher en su traducción al español, y descubrí que no me gustan los nombres usados por los traductores de estos dos libros, tanto para las personas como para los lugares.
At first, I just wanted to see what was there and I was interested because I have read and reread JRR Tolkien's principle works so many times that I was finally ready to give the "History" a try.
I came to appreciate the various versions of stories and poems on their own merit.Finally, the on going commentary to show the evolution of JRR Tolkien's work has grown on me.
So for the longest time I thought these books were just more Middle Earth mythology and/or Christopher Tolkien pimping out his father's name to try to make money off people who will buy anything associated with good ole JRR.
Can you imagine reading about the adventures of Bingo, Marmaduke and Trotter?
In any case, this book is nice enough but, in my opinion, could use some editing down to a nice one volume summary of interesting points, instead of 4 tomes of laboriously rewritten drafts.
Four tomes of laboriously rewritten drafts that I am nonetheless going to read every word of, however.
Gained so many insights from this close re-read on Tolkien's development of his new Hobbit - including the persistent character of Odo, the fact that Aragorn was first supposed to be the name of a horse and Tolkien originally planned to have a Black Rider not a Balrog fight Gandalf in Moria.
Most interesting, which was a brilliant part of the course, was charting how Tolkien slowly started bringing in his unique mythology into this new narrative to create historic depth and rootedness.
Looking forward to exploration of the new volume The Treason of Isengard later this summer.
No, but it's not for the general readership, it's for huge Tolkien nerds and scholars, and these people will find it worthwhile.
It's fun to see how the story developed, what elements changed and what were present from the very beginning.
The only stuff I found boring was the material on the evolution of maps and geography (that has always been a part of Tolkien's work I took less interest in), yet I realize it's an important part of what he was doing.
The Return of the Shadow: The History of The Lord of the Rings, Part One (The History of Middle-Earth #6), J.R.R. Tolkien, Christopher Tolkien (Editor)
Super interesante y muy recomendable para los frikis de la Tierra Media!!!El Review viene más adelante...
“Make return of ring a motive." (41) The Return of the Shadow, the first volume of Christopher Tolkien's History of the Lord of the Rings series, tells the story of the early development of The Lord of the Rings, taking the narrative from the beginning up to the Mines of Moria. I love how the little penciled note above shows just how uncertain the beginning of The Lord of the Rings was. The story might have gone anywhere, no matter how inevitable it now seems. This is what makes The Fellowship
The Return of the Shadow, the first volume of Christopher Tolkien's History of the Lord of the Rings series, tells the story of the early development of The Lord of the Rings, taking the narrative from the beginning up to the Mines of Moria.
(I do wish, however, that Tolkien had used the title The Return of the Shadow rather than The Fellowship of the Ring; in fact, I prefer all of the alternate titles used in the History series.) But as Christopher points out, what's amazing is how much of the narrative reached almost final form after only one or two drafts—and even before major plot elements were imagined.
You have to be a Next Level Tolkien Geek to tackle the 12-volume History of Middle Earth.
But if you can enjoy seven pages of Christopher Tolkien trying to determine the exact angle of the Loudwater river as it bends toward Rivendell, this is the book for you.
And for people who can get past the lore, this is actually a fascinating look at the creative process.
It isn't often you get to read the earliest drafts and manuscripts of your favorite books.
to be honest, this entire series starting with this book is no doubt going to be rather dry for someone who does not Relish in rereading the Lord of the Rings over and over again.
however, Christopher Tolkien does a good job of going through his father's notes and outlining a literary history as it were.
I feel like I've earned quite a bit of nerd cred at this point, and I shall continue the series.
I am interested to see how the story itself, one which I am so lovingly familiar with, evolved from its earliest stages to the final publication.
If you like behind the scenes information and DVD extras, etc. and love the Lord of the Rings, then this book is for you. It is fascinating, but with all the notes and such it is a long read. This is the first of the History of Middle-Earth books that I've actually made it all the way through. On to the Treason of Isengard.
@TolkienKC group read concurrently with The Fellowship of the Ring and using the @tolkienprof seminar as a study aid. Join the group discussion online.
I started reading this back in 2012 but stopped because I discovered my copy had a good-sized chunk of pages missing in the middle. I just recently got around to writing the publisher to see if they would send me a correct version (thank you, Houghton Mifflin!), so now I'm starting it over.I am listening to the audiobook at the same time, and it is fascinating comparing the final version to the story development.
This is the first book of "the writing" of the lord of the rings that Christopher Tolkien published.
To elaborate on the severely complicated writing process which occured in developing the lord of the rings "trilogy" Christopher put together this ensemble of drafts that his father wrote.
Here you get all the different drafts that Tolkien wrote in chronological order of their development with commentary by Christopher.
to a dark epic struggle for all things the history of Tokiens writing of the LOTR is fascinating, that is for the fan of such things.
An impressive project perfectly realized for severe fans of LOTR and historians of Toklien.
Even for a Tolkien fanatic like me, the book does get a little dense in places (Middle-Earth geography, dates, some of the footnotes) but those sections are very easy to skip over if you start losing interest.
One interesting side note: the four titles that make up The History of The Lord of the Rings (Return of the Shadow, The Treason of Isengard, The War of the Ring and The End of the Third Age) were all alternate titles for the the volumes of LOTR.
Personally, with the exception of End of the Third Age, I like them much better.
Yes. I am a nerd. This is the first in a series of books that chapter-by-chapter painstakingly details Tolkien's writing of LOTR. It has drafts of the chapters, edits, shows when names were changed, etc., etc. It is Hard. Core. And I love it.
With 86 reviews in place as of this writing, you don't need another one.
Well, just one sentence: It takes an English major to really enjoy this stuff--and it doesn't hurt if he's got an M.A. in linguistics!The real reason I'm writing this is to point out a coincidence.
In a rejected genealogy reproduced in this volume, Bilbo has a first cousin named Vigo.* And as all the world knows, in Jackson's film trilogy there is an actor named Viggo.
Vigo Took, grandson of Gerontius, the Old Took.
This is definitely a book for serious Tolkien nerds, but surprisingly it ends up being inspiring to all aspiring writers. Though one can be overwhelmed and humbled by the vastness of Tolkien's creation, it helps to realize that it evolved, over not one or two or five revisions, but many, and was years in the writing. And it's the writing that matters - the love of words, the never ending quest for the right word, the most fitting name. The more I learn about Tolkien, the more I admire his genius and sympathize with his obsession.
If you've ever wondered what Tolkien's thought process was when he was writing The Lord of the Rings this is the book for you.
Christopher Tolkien has compiled many of his father's early manuscripts into a sequential order.
He has also included valuable commentary on the various drafts and additions to each draft.
If nothing else you gain a greater appreciation for the thought that went into the writing of The Lord of the Rings.
This book is a book of manuscripts so if you are looking for something in story form check out something like The Children of Húrin or the new Beren and Lúthien.
One of the best reads of my life.
I feel privileged that Christopher took so much care to piece this book together.
While reading it I find myself engrossed in the creative process almost no writer ever allows you to be a part of.
And the fact that it’s of such an esteemed classic just makes it all the more sweet.
While I at times just want to yell at Tolkien to hurry up and create all my favorite characters and give them their proper names, watching him create this word is incredible.
And he gets so much down on the first draft that lasts the whole book.
An impressively fascinating, in-depth volume following Tolkien's writing of TLotR. So much to discover here – of which a lot is rather surprising and of great interest. The changing characters (and numerous naming alterations), expanding storyline and increased depth of history and importance in the shaping of Middle-earth makes for a great read. Will continue on with the other three volumes to learn all about the unfolding creative process.
Es super interesante recorrer los primeros borradores de Tolkien. Cualquier tolkiendili va a disfrutar de algo así; cualquier escritor que quiera ver de cerca lo que es trabajar por capas y el resultado que se obtiene, se va a beneficiar de algo así.
me encanta leer las diferentes versiones :3
Bingo. Trotter. Boromir!
proof that every Tolkien novel isn't good...there was little actual point to this book as a whole. the interesting parts were drowned out by monotonous scribblings of idle ponderings.
The story was good, it was basically the story of "Fellowship of the Ring" with different characters. It was interesting to see the rough drafts of the story unfold into what it eventually became. Overall a pretty good read.
There's nothing better than watching the process by which Tolkien created the greatest fantasy work of all time.
