https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/211725.Psychic_Self_Defense
Not much of self-defense, more of advice to get help of initiate in occult, and you never know if it will create much more potent troubles for you in this life and those that will follow - this is impression I got from this book.
And it is strictly Christianity based, for those who are not there is no alternative.I find Robert Bruce's book The Practical Psychic Self Defense Handbook: A Survival Guide much more helpful for the common mortals, impoverished and belonging to the other school of thought.
They are akin to what some call 'spiritual warfare' and should not be solely relegated to the 'occult' realm but necessary for all religions, religious leaders and even laymen.
She also gives rise to what I've already suspected, the rituals of the church can be construed as 'ceremonial magic' and she makes claim that many of the religious leaders who lead these ceremonies, know not of their origin or the forces they invoke.
Her stories of personal experience are interesting but had me panting and eager for her final four chapters on actual self-defense which were not disappointing but valuable and practical for the someone newly aware of phychic forces.
A classic in the field of practical occultism, to be sure, but it falls from the all-too-common pitfall of denying the reader much information of real immediate use due to the desire to keep potentially dangerous techniques out of the hands of beginners.
It is not merely a matter of "hiding" such information in such a way that only the "ripe" reader will be able to decode it; Dion Fortune outright refuses to give the reader much of anything in the way of method.
This book is mostly valuable for the quite accurate diagnostic information provided very clearly, as well as Fortune's own interesting anecdotes.
A classic of occult literature but very dated. With a strong bias towards christianity and the feminine. It is of course a product of its time and displays the racial and homophobic prejudices of that era.
This book was part of my research for The Infernal Detective, and it was a fascinating look at magickal and psychological thought in the early twentieth century.
Psychic Self-Defense is frequently cited as a "must read" for magickal practitioners.
But even if you're not a practitioner, it's a fun read.Thought forms, black lodges, hauntings, attachment, psychic attack and defense (with the focus on defense)...
And though the cover touts it as an instruction manual, it's written more as a series of case studies and stories from the author's life as an occultist.
This book is now thoroughly dog-eared, and I keep it within easy reach as I'm writing.
This book is worth reading - not necessarily to learn psychic self-defense, but rather to read of Dion Fortune's strange anecdotes from the world of esoteric Christian occultism including "psychic battles" and other goings-ons during the 1920s/30s.
I read the book because, I was attacked by a person involved in the LHP(Astral Vampire), draining me of my energy. She is a little outdated, as this was the last person to document something of this magnitude. As I was drained for my energy, I documented what happened, and in return, I turned my documented information into a novel called DARK HUMAN. We are in the process with submitting at this time. Any question on Astral Vampire's, you can find us on the social media, through Instagram, Facebook and Twitter.
Dion Fortune has described how to defend yourself against psychic attack and has also described other interesting situations that she found herself in that is not of the norm.
She describes how she created a werewolf when she was angry and how she found her mentor sleeping at the foot of her bed when he was ill in the next room.
He had come out of his body to be near a friend.
To defend yourself against a psychic attack, you must never feel fear.
But it is an interesting read and another reference book I use in my Beneath the Surface saga.
There is some good information here, but it is only to be found by plowing through a lot of less uselful material. I would have given the book a bit more credit were it not for the author's assertion in various places that the records of the Inquisition were a credible resource for any intellectual venture other than understanding just how depraved those in power can be when they are allowed to go unchecked. In her own words: 'I may be charged with having revived the superstitions of the Middle Ages. To this charge I must plead guilty.'Indeed.
This is a very good insight into occultism during the author's time. A bit of a heavier read (maybe that's just me since my mother language isn't English) but very interesting nonetheless. There are many case studies that explain the different situations, towards the end there is information on defense as well (pointing this out for anyone expecting this to be a *how to defend myself* manual only).
The strong side of this book is that it explains the influence of astral energies in everyday-life situations in a very easy to grasp and intuitive (even trivial) way. The down side is that what's inside could be written on 20 pages and that it's only basic, even elementary knowledge for people who otherwise have no clue what's going on.
Interesting when she spoke abstractly, but her personal examples grew ever more outlandish and implausible. Having read many occult works, this didn't align with the theories found in any of them. I believe her sincere, but either delusional or an addict of some sort.
Highly credible and a very interesting read.
Quit on page 133. Rest of book didn't hold much interest, first half was not especially useful but did have some decent information and anecdotal evidence.
Yet she cautions about seeking aid, she gives means for discernment as to identifying a psychic attack or diagnosing a fit of nerves or some physical ailment descending.
Clearly Fortune was cautioning her associates that their baser activities had not gone unnoticed.A further note about this book-it is clearly a product of it's times, racial theories abound, it is biased in terms of religious practices, and parts of it ooze homophobia, and some sexism is quite clearly stated.
She is quite sensitive to the the use of occult circles as a means for power for unmarried women, and also that they were preyed upon by the unethical circles.
Lots of "you should" or "you should not" without any context as to why.I honestly didn't care for this piece of occult literature.
Dion Fortune comes off as very authoritative about the subject of the book which would be an otherwise good thing, but the subject matter is not presented in an accessible manner.
This book felt as if it were written for occultists by an occultist, but it's just a monologue with very little practical magic, and even less information as to the reasoning behind why you are doing what you are doing in regards to the psychic self-defense.
For the intermediate student. You must have an open mind and you should beware as you will come across some biases. Overall the information is usefull in learning to develop the brain power we do not use (they say 90%). If you are interested here is the free PDF version of the book. http://tarotinstitute.com/free/psychi...
An important work which all occultists should have in their library. The insights in the book are gathered from a long career and are very useful to those who would take the time to apply them in their work.
An interesting read. Highly recommended.
I wish I'd been given this book as a child.
This book was one of my first inspirations into the study of Defensive occultism.. its Not to be missed by all seekers of the Magickal/Occult
Excellent book!
Rich, funny, instructive. The author describes scenes and events with a keen and intuitive ability.
classis
A consistant re reader for me. It balances and validates my everyday experiences
Not a lot of actual self-defense in this, but a fairly thorough collection of psychic experiences and info.
a classic for those interested in esoteric studies ~ I found it just a tad dated, but most often amusingly so
Fascinating book, but not as practical as I would like.
Besides the Victorian prudery and martyr-like right hand pathism, this book has some really smart observations about defending oneself against manipulative people.
The 1-5 Star Review is the total of what I have to say about this book, specifically.Caveat: This review is historical/archival in nature.
Additionally, I worked for a company in this field, 2015-2016, and had to read an ocean of this stuff to do my job.Like televangelists, and snake-oil salesman, these publishers prey on the vulnerable.
To quote Holden from Chasing Amy, "Over- or underweight [people] who don't get laid - they're our bread and butter."Though a copypasta of it, these books never tell you about hermeticism.
Having worked in this field, including sales of these exact books, I can tell you...
