https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/3945741-the-great-quest
The stable life that Josiah had known begins to come to pieces when a stranger by the name of Cornelius Gleazen, formerly a resident of Topham with a shady past that somehow links to that of the ostensibly upstanding Seth Upham, returns for a visit.
Josiah knows that Cornelius Gleazen has some kind of sinister hold over his uncle that is making him forsake his steady work at the store in favor of this flighty treasure hunt, but he can't be sure what the hold is, and so he agrees to embark with them on their journey.
A con man returns to the small New England town where he grew up and entangles his boyhood friend, along with the friend's nephew, two shop-clerks, and a dispossessed mortgagé, in a supposed search for gold that turns out to be a cover for outfitting a slave-trading vessel.
The book is narrated by the nephew, who survives the adventure and gains a white wife and a black servant, in addition to the undying allegiance of the mortgagé and one of the shop-clerks.The writing is...
:DIn addition, it becomes more drastically racist and offensive as we approach Africa, with lines like "three of us [were] arrant scoundrels, but all of us at least white of skin, surrounded by a black horde".
A man (Cornelius Gleazen) from his uncle's past (he hung with a bad crowd as a youth) comes to town and convinces/blackmails him into committing to a trading quest to Africa.
Uncle invests his savings and he, Josiah, and two employees accompany scoundrel on the journey.
This is one of the "forgotten" Newberys, but for reasons I don't understand it's more available than another of the same year (Cedric the Forester).
I read this for my Newbery challenge and it also fulfills my 2017 Reading Challenge "read an adventure book" (Read the World in 52 weeks).
Another book from the inaugural year of the Newbery awards that tells me that racism in that time was extremely complicated, though many were convinced they weren't racist.
The complicated legality of slavery at the time of the setting made this book more tense than I would have liked, but it did have some adventure in the last half.
It is a pleasure to see how far literature for children has come in the last 90 years, though not so pleasurable to work my way through these books.
The Dark Frigate by the same author is a much better book, or at least has kept its relatability much better than this one.
Absolutely inappropriate for children.
Back later for review
On the surface, this book appears to be a pirate adventure story for children but, plunge deeper, and the horrors of the African slave-trade make themselves known.
This book was written at a time when pirate tales were popular among young boys.
This book takes those pirate tales one step further, showing children how those treasure hordes were often linked to the trade in human flesh.
Absolutely not, but the language preserves a time when these attitudes were socially-acceptable while also illustrating the human slave trade.
This book can be used as a stepping stone for teaching children about the history of racism.
This book has a lot of intrigue and a sense of adventure. Charles Hawes really has “adventure” going for his writing. I feel like I can’t use that word enough. However… this issue here is the hovering sense of racism. Although our heroes are unwittingly tricked into partaking in the slave trade, and disapprove, their main foe is “the blacks”. And considering what the main characters are doing in Africa, it’s hard to view the Africans as much of a villain. Africans attack and kill and provide a s
This book has a lot of intrigue and a sense of adventure.
And considering what the main characters are doing in Africa, it’s hard to view the Africans as much of a villain.
Africans attack and kill and provide a sense of danger, but there’s no real moral security in who you want to triumph.
The attacks were written well (adventure!) but I wasn’t really on the side of our “heroes”.
It is played out so there’s blackmail and the narrator is young and just trying to protect his uncle, etc… but that doesn’t make one believe the Africans are in the wrong.
It toes the line, but it’s a decent, yeah, adventure.
Joe, the main character, is a young man who finds himself swept up in an adventure with some unsavory characters and a couple of good friends on his side.
Although the main character and his friends abhor slavery and are horrified that the aforementioned unsavory characters are slavers, there are plenty of patronizing views of black people, especially the Africans they fight against when they land on the coast of Africa.
At first I thought I could ignore the racism, as I have to do in many older books that I read, but since a large portion of the book takes place in Africa, it’s pretty unavoidable.
Young men may long for adventure.
And they may experience more than they bargain for.
This book classically describes such a case.
There are many books for young adults that do this well.
Unfortunately, I think this book is not one for current reading.
It is dated and contains attitudes about racism that we no longer tolerate.
It's one thing to show those attitudes in their historical perspective and quite another to mindlessly include them as a matter of course.
Aside - there are basically no females in the story.
I read because it was a Newbery honor book.
Not as good as The Dark Frigate by the same author. I kept feeling like there was supposed to be suspense and excitement - like it was meant to be there but never came. Yes, there were battles and guns and stuff, but it wasn't really exciting. My favorite character was actually the African witch doctor who kept calling out at them. The 'Love Story' was also quite lame and not developed enough for the kind of ending the book had. Still, it was an interesting read, so a good 3 stars it is.
Very good adventure story. I enjoyed it a lot more than Treasure Island, Kidnapped, or any of the other classic adventure stories even though the language is a of the old style of literature and somewhat cumbersome. It seemed that the action, conflicts, dangers, and hardships were non stop. I highly recommend.
This 1922 Newberry Honor book is great adventure from beginning to end. Unfortunately adventure from beginning to end is not my favorite type of book to read, but I liked the characters and the story. It's a great book to read (at least I think so) to get a feel for what it might have been like to travel to Africa and encounter Africans during the time of the slave trade.
This was a Newbery Honor Book the very first year, in 1922. It was slow to start and the narrator was painfully slow to figure things out, but I'm glad I finished.I preferred the author's other Newbery winner, The Dark Frigate, which won a few years later.
Interestingly find. Well written even if vocabulary and attitude toward race are not p.c. by today's standards. Good adventure and good criticism of the slave trade, written at the turn of the 19-20th century.
I picked up the Great Quest because it was a Newbery Honor book from 1922. It took a long time to get into it, and the plot was a little thin, but once the adventure got started it did keep me reading to the end.Definitely not P.C. for the 21st century though!
I got close enough to finishing this to know I didn't need to actually finish it. I could not get past the racism. At some point I tried to convince myself it was anthropologically interesting, a window into a different time.
This old book was a 1922 Newbery Honor. It was interesting, but seemed to drag a bit. I enjoyed the ending.
1dbbfa2b-d779-46d4-af8f-125c9cce16cf
Difficult style for a modern reader to parse, and hours after I'd finished it, I barely recalled the details. Not very memorable.
