https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1005670.50_Great_Short_Stories
First off, this book isn't a collection of 50 great short stories.
A few shining stars had me signing into Goodreads to add more books by those writers.
The rest were so-so, pretty decent, and "Okay."This collection lacks in variety.
If you like stuff from the New Yorker, then this book is for you.
I like a little controversy in my reading.
It's not much of a leisure read, and after a while you'll feel like you're back in high school English class.
I would have given this book a much higher rating if it wasn't for all the dull stories that dragged this one down.
WHAT MAKES A GREAT SHORT STORY?The sudden unforgettable revelation of character; the vision of a world through another's eyes; the glimpse of truth; the capture of a moment in time.All this the short story, at its best, is uniquely capable of conveying, for in its very shortness lies its greatest strength.It can discover depths of meaning in the casual word or action; it can suggest in a page what could not be stated in a volume.-- Milton CraneIn my fledgling first few years as a more dedicated reader of prose, the short story anthology was my go-to format.
What a fucking collection.
What a slog. Took me, um, three months to get through. Dreary. Too much racism, sometimes addressed, sometimes accepted. Too much mysterious jewelry and women (both wives and governesses) as ornament. Too much alcohol. Very Western, usually bleak or at least bleary. A few gems, but I can't be bothered to go check which ones they were.
Of course the quality of the stories compiled in this edition are excellent: they were written by the masters.
Some were fantastic: I really enjoyed a solid third of the stories there, but only a third.
I particularly enjoyed virginia woolf's haunted house, thomas wolfe's "only the dead know brooklyn", dorothy parker's "standard of living", shirley jackson's "lottery " which i had already read, and especially Francis Steegmuller's "the foreigner", among others.
But a lot of them were uncomfortable to read because of racism and sexism: particularly william faulkner's "That Evening Sun" and Aldous Huxley's "The Gioconda Smile.
Should republish new edition, relabeled as "50 Great Short Stories for Old White Guys".
All 50 stories are by white people and 42 by men what a great collection of diverse stories
For writers this book is an exercise. An exercise of minimalism, of trained imagination and crafted words. All stories have their flavour, and exposing that simple truth alone, the book unveils a great deal about voice. It also relaxes the writing muscle, shaving off the edge of theme - the hovering nemesis. A random selection: "Putois" for the comic human nature, "A good man is hard to find" for it's remarkable cynicism, "The Gioconda Smile" for society gumption and uptight drama of uncanny involuntary humour, and "The courting of Dinah Shadd" and "The Chrysanthemums" just because.
Worth it for Hemingway's "The Three-Day Blow."
They were more like 50 OK stories. Most of them were boring, in many there was absolutely nothing happening. The extra star is for the 5 good stories that I enjoyed.
Usually reading the same story for 200 pages bores me, but in this book, you’ll never get bored!The Garden Party by Katherine Mansfield was my favorite one.
A scene from the garden party:“Isn't life,' she stammered, 'isn't life--' But what life was she couldn't explain.
Or does it show our royalty and sensitivity?The vocabulary is a little bit hard but I think you'll understand the story.I think the design might have been different.
The font is a little bit small and hard to read.I recommend you to read it because this book is a great opportunity for you to read the best short stories ever written.
What a wonderful collection of short stories!While all the stories might be considered classics, there was quite a bit of diversity.
Stories to make you think about life and stories to make you laugh.
There are tales of horror (Poe), alternate history, and speculative fiction (not sci-fi really, think along the lines of Shirley Jackson's "The Lottery").Among the classics I had previously read, I was delighted to find both unfamiliar stories by familiar authors and unfamiliar stories by unfamiliar authors that I intend to read more of.While I enjoyed every story, my favorites were "The Other Side of the Hedge" by E.M Forster, "Putois" by Anatole France, "The Schartz-Metterklume Method" by "Saki" (H.H. Munro), and "The Chaser" by John Collier (the final story and a great way to end a book).
The best collection of short stories I've ever read. It focuses mostly on modern, Western, fiction, but within that there is definitely plenty of variety. Every story is a delight, and they are not the traditional anthology picks either, and so there are a lot that I had never bumped into before reading this book.
Çok tanınmış yazarların son derece bayık öykülerinden oluşan, basbayağı sıkıcı bir seçki. Tavsiye edemeyeceğim.
Nice variety, some great choices. Some not so great. But overall, such an enjoyable summer read.
“50 Great Short Stories,” first published in 1952 and edited by Milton Crane, has been a popular high school textbook in the U.S., judging by the number of printings the book has had. The weathered copy I read was the 46th printing in 1983 and used as a textbook for Skyline High School in Oakland. Of the 50 short stories, I remember reading seven of them before. The stories are by well-known writers such as Hemingway, Wharton, Poe, Steinbeck, Woolf, and Faulkner – and lesser-known writers such
“50 Great Short Stories,” first published in 1952 and edited by Milton Crane, has been a popular high school textbook in the U.S., judging by the number of printings the book has had.
Aldous Huxley was best known for his essays and novels, including “Brave New World,” but he showed his skills as a short story writer in “The Gioconda Smile.” This 1921 short story has eye-opening description and dialogue.
She was a machine gun riddling her host with sympathy.”	A few of these short stories can be found in other anthologies, but I think the editor chose most of the stories because they were good, and a few great, but not well-known.
I found it to be a really enjoyable and fun read, even if it definitely has flaws.
I do wish this had had the sort of things I associate with more modern anthologies, like proper biographical notes and perhaps even an explanation for why Milton Crane chose these particular stories.
I expected to pick this up and put it down a lot, moving through it slowly, but instead I practically raced through, showing just how much fun I had.
The editor has a second book devoted to American stories that I'll likely be picking up in the near future, in the hopes that it's just as good.
I had never heard of Milton Crane or his anthologies of short stories.
50 Great Short Stories isn't a great title for this collection.
5o Good Short Stories would've been better.
A couple of the stories, particularly Death of a Bachelor by Arthur Schnitzler, were great, but overall this isn't a great collection.
Most of the writing had the same themes or tones, and it made the collection a little dry.
I advise a skimming of this collection.
Read what you like, and please, as a favor to me, skip the pointless Hemingway story.
How can anyone like this man?
A solid collection of classic short stories. My favourites were the one by Arthur Schnitzler (he is a master), Max Beerbohm (new discovery and very wonderful), Anatole France, Joseph Conrad (such exquisite prose), Flannery O'Connor (want to read all her stories), Frank O'Connor (one of my favourite stories from the book), William Saroyan (how can we not love a story with a horse) and Katherine Mansfield (I never got the point of 'The Garden Party' before, but when I read it now I loved it).
1st read: The Three-Day Blow, The Other Side of the Hedge, Theft, A Good Man is Hard to Find, The Chrysanthemums, The Catbird Seat, and A String of Beads2nd read: The Catbird Seat, The Schartz-Metterklume Method, The Garden Party, The Lottery, The Masque of the Read Death, The Door, The Man of the House, The Summer of the Beautiful White Horse, A String of Beads, The Minister’s Black Veil, Brooksmith, Looking Back, An Upheaval, The Chrysanthemums, The Standard of Living, The Man Higher Up
There are a few stories in this book that knocked my socks off. If you are a fan of modern fiction written in the 19th and 20th century all around the world, then this is the book for you. Great little paperback to have on hand when travelling.
Most of the stories in this book are crap,not even a single story can be called good.The name of this book is just a scam to sell this book........
I like my short stories like I like my short stories: short. The long ones sucked. Short was were good, but could be shorter.
Finally....finished....this....book!Short reviewAs others stated, some good stories, but many are really uninteresting.
Long reviewI picked up this book in a thrift sale.
Clearly a used book, it started coming apart as I read it.
I should have stopped reading this book a long time ago, but kept going.
Part of my persistence was driven by the fact that each new story, by a different author, could begin the gems that made up the bulk of this book.
Part was the knowledge that I will be the last person to read this book.
An eclectic collection of short stories.
Some of them are great, others I didn't enjoy as much.
Is that because they weren't great?
Maybe, or maybe they were just from a different time.
Some stories are timeless, others very much live in the moment they were written.
In the unique idioms and idiosyncrasies of that time.
Still, it's a great read and most of the stories hit their mark.
(Wow, this one really surprised me)The Minister's Black Veil - A Parable (My favorite in the collection)The Man Who Could Work Miracles
Though it is true that I doesn't like every story in this book. I felt that this book should still deserve a four star rating. After all, with so many authors in one book, it is difficult to please everyone with every story selected, right? One of the virtue of this book is that it enables the reader to meet more authors, and maybe eventually found several,authors that he or she likes. Which I think, by the large range of selection, is what this book had successfully accomplished.
A dated anthology, limited to the typical canonical writers of its period. Not much variety in genre either - it's all very, very modernist. I didn't see a single sci-fi short, although I suppose those were considered low-brow pulp in the 50's. Nevertheless, most of the stories in this anthology make for seminal reading on the count of their quality.
Some great classic stories in here and some I had never read and am glad I was exposed to finally. Read this for a course and though the stories were great, unfortunately the materials that accompanied them were, well, not so much. Wish there had been even more contemporary stories, but perhaps in another addition.
I'm guessing Milton Crane has/had a hard-on for Rotarians.Also, be warned that this very edition will stain your fingers with ink. That's cheap even for a price this low.Overall, most of these were more meh than yay. I'm not blown away, but I got a few more names to check out other works from.And I will definitely employ the Schartz-Metterklume Method from now on.
I'd say about half of the stories in this book are great short stories. The rest fall flat and lack the wit and sparkle of the first half. The problem is that they are evenly interspersed throughout the book so that the reader has to find the great ones. Some of the stories I had to skip over altogether because I just could not get through them.
Hit and miss. Enjoyed (so re-read) "The Man Higher Up" by O. Henry. It's about three con men who con each other while working on a con together. Very entertaining story. It was emulated by the movie Dirty, Rotten Scoundrels with Steve Martin and Michael Caine (also entertaining).
