https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/28220985-a-great-reckoning
I hope Reine Marie isn't too jealous...At the end of every August, my consolation for seeing the end of the summer is that Louise Penny publishes a new mystery featuring Armand Gamache and the village of Three Pines.
It skilfully intertwines Gamache's complex history as a police officer with some great new characters and a compelling mystery.
These books probably bear no relationship to what it really feels like to work in the provincial Quebec police force, but Penny sure knows how to use this context to stir up human emotions -- all the nasty ones and all the ones to aspire too.Anyhow, if you're a fan, this is another great addition to the series.
Gamache accepts a job as the head of the Surete, the school where cadets train.
But why and what does he hope to accomplish there?
There is a murder and a map, a new cadet with ties to Gamache.
The characters, I always wonder if I actually met Ruth if I would like her, and well all of them, all add something special.
There is friendship, love, caring and cunning, loyalty and a very smart, wonderful man in charge.
In this book I ran through a gambit of emotions, fear, wonder, laughter and yes, one part even brought me to tears.
How many authors can accomplish this?
However, Armand's unenviable task is to root out the corruption and ugly practices that have in turn produced numerous brutal and cruel officers in the Surete.Armand plays a dangerous game in dismissing and appointing staff in the expectation that there will be a conflagration.
Perceiving those cadets closest to Leduc to be in danger, Armand locates them to Three Pines with the task of investigating a mysterious map found in the walls of the Bistro.
Questions are asked about the nature of the relationship Armand has with the unconventional but bright cadet, Amelia.What really drives this novel are the characters in all their flawed depths and humanity.
The complexities in relationships are what make this riveting reading.
"Things are strongest where they're broken," said Commander Gamache, his voice deep and calm and certain.I must tell you.I don't know where the magnitude of strength came from that propelled Louise Penny to write this most beautiful of life sonnets to her husband, Michael.
She penned A Great Reckoning while her husband battled dementia.
These professors have access to the young cadets and Gamache bides his time.Louise Penny inserts intense complications as only she can.
But Louise Penny draws on Gamache's words: "There is always a road back.
I have read the previous 11 Armand Gamache books, and they all led to the events and revelations in this, the 12th.
I felt like I was coming home as I started the book.
Many people talk about certain books as if they were peeling away layers of an onion.
Armand has found a new purpose as the Commander of the Sûreté Academy.
Everything is done with a purpose, including accepting certain new students and befriending current cadets.
You must also learn the personal history of Armand, his wife Reine-Marie, his second in command Jean-Guy Beauvoir, and others of the Sûreté du Québec.
Armand Gamache has recently taken over as the commander of the Sûreté Academy for the training of new cadets.
Gamache is desperate to discover the evidence he needs to put this Professor behind bars for a very long time However, things rarely go as planned and once a murder takes place everything changes.
Gamache realizes he should bring in an outsider, and requests RCMP Deputy Commissioner Gelinas to oversee the investigation to ascertain everything discovered about the murder is above board.
As the inquiry begins, Gamache is taken aback that Gelinas has promptly put him in his crosshairs and will no doubt arrest him for the crime once he is satisfied with the evidence.
In my review of the previous book in this series I wished that Armand Gamache would soon come out of retirement and get back to what he is really good at - taking charge and solving crimes.
I got my wish and after sifting through a number of offers for very senior positions Gamache chooses one nearest to his own heart as Commander of the Surete Academy.Action in the book is divided between Three Pines and the Academy which made me happy.
There is an interesting twist when Gamache himself is suspected of murder and a lot of emotions are aroused especially amongst all the friends in Three Pines.
5★ Shining so brightly!While the author was writing this 12th book in her Inspector Gamache series her husband was in the last stages of Alzheimer’s disease and passed away shortly after its publication.
That list included “Armand, Reine-Marie, Clara, Myrna, Gabri, Ruth, et al.” Those of us who love this series can understand that very well.
I’m sure the love between Armand and Reine-Marie is inspired by what Ms. Penny shared with her husband Michael.
Well, what did I know.
I don’t know how she keeps pulling it off but so very grateful she does.
Louise Penny shows her creative side in reimagining the central characters in her well-established Canadian police procedural series, taking the reader on a mysterious journey in which only Armand Gamache could find himself.
After Gamache takes a number of the new cadets under his wing, having them open their own investigation into this mysterious map, they come to find themselves in Three Pines, where they discover the wonders of this community in the Eastern Townships, while also connecting with some of its unique inhabitants.
Having been put in charge of the Sûreté Academy, Gamache has new life, as Penny shows throughout the piece.
This is one of the best books in the series! Now that I am caught up...I have to wait a year for the next book to come out and return to one of my favorite spots, with my favorite characters, in Three Pines.
Robert Bathurst does a great job of narrating Louise Penny's A Great Reckoning, #12 in The Chief Inspector Armand Gamache series.This is only my second Louise Penny and I have to admit to being enamoured by Gamache's steely yet gentle personality, his sense of honour.Central to this story is an old orienteering map discovered hidden in the wall of the old Bistro at Three Pines, a town that appears on no map other than this one. This tale of murder is intricately wound with false trails and leads, misinformation and innuendo.A delightful 'read'.
In this latest title Gamache has taken his quest to clean up police corruption to its very beginning, the police academy.
Where better to stop corruption than to prevent it from starting.
Once again, we are reminded, as Gamache has said in the past, if we understand why, we will know who.For anyone who hasn't read this series, start at the beginning, while the books can stand alone, the depth of storytelling is truly revealed through the evolution of the series.This title is an extraordinary achievement, perhaps one of her best.
By the time you get to the 12th novel in a series I often find myself losing interest and that the stories just aren't as good as they were.
Stories of the human heart.An old map is found stuffed into the walls of the bistro in Three Pines.
The map is given to Armand Gamache as a gift the first day of his new job as Commander of the Sûreté academy.
Armand gives copies of the map to four cadets as an investigative exercise.
The focus of the investigation soon turns to Gamache himself and his mysterious relationship with Amelia.A mysterious map, corruption at the Sûreté academy ...
In the latest book in the series, Armande Gamache has accepted a job with the Police Training Academy.
Le Sûreté has recovered from the corruption in its ranks, and after a short retirement Armand is ready to reach out to the next generation, leading to serve the people and giving the new recruits a different outlook from its earlier staffers.
A simple search to find out more about a map puts four new police interns in precarious situations.
As the title hints, some things that have gone unanswered are answered, about Three Pines' history especially.
There's also a murder to solve, this time at the Sûreté academy, where Gamache has just started a new career.
The murderer could be one of the cadets, a professor, or even Gamache himself.
Anyone and everyone who happened to be at the Academy the night of the murder is suspect.It's always good to spend some time with all my friends in Three Pines.
I'm still not enthralled with the new audio narrator -- I really think he needs to give Armand a much stronger voice, to stand out from everyone else.
She makes you smile, but she makes you think.Penny is an author with a beautifully lyrical style who causes you to pause and consider; to see things, and people, in a new way, sometimes through the scene, and sometimes through literary references—“Don’t believe everything you think.” The dialogue is realistic, and occasionally humorous—“Through the kitchen window, they saw Commander Gamache supporting Ruth, Keeping her upright on the icy road….”Alzheimer’s?” asked Huifen.
As with life, there are numerous situations and threads, involving different characters in different ways, yet all roads lead us back to Three Pines.A GREAT RECKONING (Pol Proc-Armand Gamache-Canada-Contemp) – ExPenny, Louise – 12th in seriesMinotaur Books – Aug 2016
Louise Penny is right on schedule this September with her newest Chief Inspector Armand Gamache mystery, A Great Reckoning and it’s sensational.
Penny’s accomplished writing brings everything together into a soufflé of exquisite sumptuousness.In A Great Reckoning, Gamache now retired from investigating homicides for the Surete du Quebec, has taken the reins of an out of control police-training academy.
Is there a connection to this map and the murdered academy administrator?Penny, historically the only Canadian author of note (not counting the esteemed memoirist and sci-fi guru William Shatner) has the skills to make many of the current crop of mystery writers nervous at being exposed as 5-cent hacks.
Any of the Armand Gamache books are good, but A Great Reckoning is wildly excellent.
A new Louise Penny novel is like getting together with a group of old friends.
In this latest book in the series, Armand has taken over the commander position of the Surete Academie.
We are witness to all Armand’s decisions, some quite risky, to bring the Academy out of the quagmire.
She is one of Armand’s most daring choices as a new inductee to the school.
And you have to love Penny’s ability to capture a character.
It was as though the girl was encasing herself in armor.” I love all the Gamache books but this ranks as one of my favorites.
Love this series, but this book is possibly the best in the series yet. Emotional, layered, and thoughtful.
EVERY FREAKIN' ONE OF HER BOOKS I start out enjoying the characters and the tension and end up face to face with a completely unbelievable situation. And that damn old poet and her duck. And that stupid fairy-tale village. ARRRGGGGHHHH. By now I should know better.
I purposefully took my time with this book, savoring every chapter.
You can't define this book or this series as only mysteries but as true literary works of art.
This story describes a place where I could see myself living, croissants I wish I was eating, characters I wish were my friends and others who feel like family.
At points this book made me laugh out loud, at another time I was brought to the edge of tears by the support and love of friends and family.
One of my favorite series...my highest of recommendations!
4.5 starsWow. As usual, the combination of Ms. Penny's sublime prose & a twisty mystery with several sub plots creates a story that guarantees you'll be packing this with you everywhere until you're done.
It answered a lot of questions, tied up story lines & I wondered if Armand & Reine-Marie were riding off into the sunset over Three Pines.
Wonderful moments of humour (usually involving Ruth, my idol) are interspersed with rising tension as Gamache attempts to finish the job he started several books ago.
I'm in the minority, but I thought this book would be terrific, and frankly, it isn't, and it certainly isn't what I expected based on the glowing reviews. I couldn't get past the half-way point because I felt no connection to these characters. The Chief Inspector is TOO perfect and the foul-mouthed old woman is TOO imperfect. And so it goes with the characters, everyone seemingly "good" or "bad." Maybe this series is an acquired taste because it has many wonderful reviews from fans who obviously follow this series, but to me this book is predictable, plodding, and boring.
4.5/5Proclaimer: I don’t usually read mysteries, but every year I look forward Louise Penny’s latest Armand Gamache novel. This year’s arrival is A Great Reckoning, Gamache #12. And while some of her books are stronger than others, I love them all, without exception. (Just so you know where I’m coming from.) My previous favorite Louise Penny novel was her ninth, How the Light Gets In. In that book she spent most of her time resolving issues at the Sûreté and focusing on deep analyses of the majo
4.5/5Proclaimer: I don’t usually read mysteries, but every year I look forward Louise Penny’s latest Armand Gamache novel.
In A Great Reckoning, Louise Penny corrects the problems caused by putting Gamache back to work.
When faced with a professor who was complaining that Gamache, as headmaster of the police academy, was failing to teach well because he did not punish freshmen who were not strict enough in how they wore their uniforms.
I am so glad Armand Gamache has come out of retirement, and Louise Penny is back to the top of her game.
I'm such a fan of Louise Penny's books!
As I anxiously anticipate each new title, I worry just a little that I'll be disappointed, but only because my expectations are so high.
Well, I vow to stop doing that!
This one may be my favorite so far.
You can read the synopsis elsewhere, so I won't repeat it here.
The story is complex, with the beloved characters in attendance as well as some interesting new ones.
Once again, Penny keeps the murder's identity well disguised.
The clues are there, but she handles them so masterfully that no one is above suspicion...Armand Gamache.
I've read and enjoyed a couple of other novels in the Inspector Gamache series.
I had heard very good reports about this latest one in the series (number 12), and the reports were certainly correct.
The following day I 'cleared the decks' of things to do and read it to the end.This can be read as a stand alone novel or as part of the series.
My intention now is to go back, and read some of the other books in the series that I able to get hold of.
So, I've now read them all as far as they go and all I can say is bring on the next one. I don't want to say too much and give anything away with the story line for those that are still reading it. I have enjoyed this series so much I'm sorry that I've now got to wait for the next one, on the other hand it means I can now read some of the books that have accumulated on my kindle. I can't recommend this series enough.
And, those are four needy cadets.There's really no need to summarize A Great Reckoning other than to say there are two investigations, one into a new murder, one into the story of the map.
And, because of that map, because of a cadet, Gamache himself is a suspect.Louise Penny has had an overarching storyline in her books about power, and the corruption of power.
And, of course, there's Gamache himself, the symbol of light, with his kindness, his hope for the cadets, his power.I read A Great Reckoning twice in the last week.
I thought this was one of the stronger in the series.I should like to visit Three Pines, were it not for the murder rate. (Though not room with Ruth Zardo, thank you. You can book me at the B&B next to the bistro.)
Really WONDERFUL!!!!!! See Diane S's review to see why it is so great.PS A big THANK YOU to Diane S for making my reviews so easy to "write" -due to the excellence of hers!!!!
