https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/225274.Song_and_Dance_Man
Grandpa has some hidden talents. He likes to set the stage and put on a shoe for his grandkids. He does the soft shoe shuffle and some tapping and other tap moves. It would be pretty amazing to see grandpa putting on a show.The kids thought this was funny. Grandpa dancing made them laugh. They had fun with the book. I was indifferent about the art here. When I picked out this book, I thought it was about Fred Astaire. It is not, but Grandpa did work on the Vaudeville stage.
A sweet and lovingly fun romp through grandpa's past as a Vaudeville performer, this proves quite delightful, although I am at the same time also not magically "wowed" by it.
Personally, I guess I would have liked (and perhaps even somewhat required) at least a modicum of historical background information, not so much within the text itself, but as an informative author's note or afterword.
And thus, as much as I truly do enjoy and appreciate Karen Ackerman's Song and Dance Man, I am left with a feeling that while more than adequate, there could have been more done with this, and more information provided.
Loved the magic (theater is magic to me!) as they all climb up to the dusty attic and open the old chest containing the Vaudeville costume, the wonder as the grandpa polishes his tap shoes and tips the lampshades to shine like spotlights, while the children gather on piled up blankets and watch with awe and appreciation as their grandpa becomes something more than the man they always see downstairs--he becomes the song and dance man.
In this book, the grandpa seems pretty sprightly and it's wonderful that he can still perform dances for the children, but I appreciated the poignancy as he descended the stairs carefully holding onto the railing, and looked wistfully at his past.
The grandfather in this story is a retired Vaudeville tap dance performer, who puts on a show for his grandchildren.
His love for performing and the fact that he performed on Vaudeville make me think of my maternal grandfather and his family.
My grandfather has a love for music, was quite the piano player in his day, taught music, and still plays well and loves sharing these talents with others.
If I understand the family history correctly, his great-grandmother (my great-great-great grandmother) and her mother and sister were concert pianists who traveled and played, some Vaudeville and some Lyceum meetings.
This is a story about passing on family history and bonding over shared delight.
Such a sweet story about a talented grandpa and his adoring grandchildren fans!Ages: 4 - 9**Like my reviews? I also have hundreds of detailed reports that I offer too. These reports give a complete break-down of everything in the book, so you'll know just how clean it is or isn't. I also have Clean Guides (downloadable PDFs) which enable you to clean up your book before reading it! Visit my website: The Book Radar.
A lot more fun and engaging to read than I expected based on the cover. From the cover, it looks like one of those books that is just going to be really wordy and not fun for kids. But, my 7 year old daughter enjoyed this quite a bit. It is about a grandfather performing his old vaudeville act for his grandchildren which they feel is better than TV.
This story begins with a grandfather talking to his grandkids about the times before television sets were in people’s homes.
He started tapping his shoes and moving about, that soon the children were so enthralled, they forgot it their their grandfather performing.
When they were leaving the attic, the children expressed they had wished to see him in the good old days on the vaudeville stage.
After locking up the attic he looks back, and the children wonder if he misses the good old days when he was a song and dance man.
This is a wonderful story for children to read.
• Book summary-This story is about three children that go visit their Grandpa. They all go to the attic to search for his old dance shoes and clothing. They all dress up in the old clothing and watch Grandpa perform a dance. They had a great time and Grandpa got the opportunity to reminisce about his life. He looked back with pride and knew that he was happy just where he was; with his grandchildren. • Caldecott Medal• Grade level, interest level, Lexile -K-2• Appropriate classroom use (subject
•	Book summary-This story is about three children that go visit their Grandpa.
They all dress up in the old clothing and watch Grandpa perform a dance.
•	Caldecott Medal•	Grade level, interest level, Lexile -K-2•	Appropriate classroom use (subject area) -During story time to teach students to never forget who they are, and to enjoy every day.
•	Individual students who might benefit from reading -All students will enjoy reading this fun story about the song and dance man.
Especially students that have a passion for song and dance.
Then talk about why the man in the story was happy the way he lives now.
2) Grade level, interest level, lexile: The grade level for this book is preschool to 2nd grade, the interest level is 3 to 7 years old, and the lexile is 780l 3) Appropriate classroom use (subject area): Reading block period 4) Individual students who might benefit from reading : I would say children who have grandparents with music or singing background history would love this.
6) Whole class use (read aloud) : I would read the book to the students as a whole and maybe cut on some music and let the children dance for a moment.
This is a picture book that will make you remember your grandparents with a fond memory or will make you want to visit them soon.
This heartwarming story is told from the viewpoint of a grandchild as he visits his grandparents’ house.
In this book, one of the grandchildren expresses his feelings of enjoyment and connection with his grandfather and how he longs to know what his grandfather was like in his younger age.
The book has expressive illustrations showing lots of movement and uses flashy colors just like an entertaining tap dance.
It is a heartwarming book.
This story was about a very talented Grandpa and the day he shared his old talents with his little grandchildren.
The children learn about the so-called "Song and Dance Days", the time before TV ruled the lives of youngsters.
He ends up showcasing his talents in a special performance for his grandchildren one day when they visited.
What follows is both funny and warms the soul of the readers.Now, the best part of this book were the illustrations.
Almost every color was represented in the book's pages and it came together as a very pretty and well executed creation.
Illustrations reinforce this sweet story of a grandfather performing for his grandchildren like he did when he was a dancer on the vaudeville stage.
Through lines and shading the illustrator shows movement as the song and dance man taps his way across the attic.
The illustrations also help the reader connect with the grandchildren when they say “We forget that it’s Grandpa dancing, and all we can hear is the silvery tap of two feel, and all we can see is a song and dance man gliding across a vaudeville stage.” by making the grandpa an outline with vague details.
"Song and Dance Man" by Karen Ackerman was a story of a Grandfather spending an afternoon with his grandchildren.
He opens a chest and begins to show them all of his old things and even performs for them.
Unfortunately, this story bored me a little bit, and was not my favorite.
I think kids might enjoy this, but the only thing that kept me turning the pages were the illustrations.The illustrations in the book were unlike any other I have seen, very original.
The illustrations kept me wanting to turn the page!
I would definitely have nominated this book for a Caldecott award!
This cute book reads to me like a love letter to theater and vaudeville.
Ha!The pictures are cute, with a sketched and informal feel, matching the book.Some of the language is more poetic and literary than ready for outloud reading, but it is still good.
Depending on who is doing the reading, this book could be recommended for lap sitting kids all the way up to 9 or 10.
Beyond that, and they might not care...unless they are the type of kid who cares for this kind of thing.It is so hard to recommend books.
o Summary: This book is about a grandfather who loves his grandchildren. He pulls out his old shoes, hat, and cane and shows them what it was like to be a song and dance man. He grandchildren are so impressed. You are only as old as you feel and it is obvious that this grandfather still has it!o Grade level: thirdo Appropriate classroom use would be for a fun read.o Individual students who might benefit from reading any student. They would think it was a fun book and love the illistrationso Smal
o	Summary: This book is about a grandfather who loves his grandchildren.
You are only as old as you feel and it is obvious that this grandfather still has it!o	Grade level: thirdo	Appropriate classroom use would be for a fun read.o	Individual students who might benefit from reading any student.
They would think it was a fun book and love the illistrationso	Small group use: I would have this on my classroom bookshelf for students to read during quiet time or recess.o	Whole class use: We would read this during carpet time.o	Related books in genre/subject or content area: What You Always Wantedo	Multimedia connections available: I couldn't find anything for this book.
1989 Caldecott Medal - Favorite Illustration: After the show, when all the kids are hugging Grandpa.Many years ago, before everyone had a television, people went to shows for entertainment.
Three children learn about these shows from their grandfather, who used to be a "Song and Dance Man." Grandpa takes the children up to the attic, where he puts on a show complete with tap dancing, singing, banjo playing, and magic tricks.
I liked the idea of this story, but I wish that the illustrations were more realistic.
I didn't really care for the colored pencil and pudgy/whimsical style of the people, I would have much preferred more detail and realism from the pictures.
A fantastic book that uses charming pencil drawings to create softly illustrated pictures that really enhance the story.
A grandfather takes his grandchildren up to the attic to share with them a time before TV, when he was a vaudeville performer.
His story is fun, and makes you want to call up your grandparents to have them tell their stories of their youth before they are gone.
We really enjoyed reading this book together.This book was selected as one of the books for the July 2016- Quarterly Caldecott discussion at the Picture-Book Club in the Children's Books Group here at Goodreads.
This 1989 Caldecott medal book is a sheer delight.When his grandchildren visit, they prod their grandfather to go into the attic and find his shoes, hat and cane and to put on a show.As a vaudeville tap dancer, grandpa has many wonderful memories.Captivating the children, who respectfully sit and watch the lovely show, all deserve a round of applause -- the children for loving their grandpa so much that they are interested in his previous life, and good ole grandpa who dims the lights, dons the top hat and clicks his way into a special place in their hearts.
The story in this one seemed pretty cliched to me, and the repetition of phrases like “the vaudeville stage” got annoying pretty quickly. I tend to like Gammell’s illustration style in general, but I wasn’t overly fond of how the grandpa looks in this story. I think my favorite picture is actually the spread where he and the kids are in the attic looking for his old song and dance clothes. The use of shadow is great throughout the book, but it’s especially evocative in that scene.
I really liked these bright and colorful illustrations. Gammell used lots of colors that I like, bright yellows, blues, purples, pinks, aquas, grass green, etc. The illustrations were so energetic, one could almost see the Grandfather dancing. I liked how the backgrounds were almost scribbly in places. It's a wonderful family story as well, with Grandfather entertaining his grandchildren. They will have such wonderful memories of him!
I love the loving relationship that is so evident between the grandfather and his grandchildren. I love his joy and enthusiasm as he shows and tells his grandchildren about the "good old days" when he was a song and dance man (a vaudeville performer). But I especially love the wonderful illustrations that accompany this lovely story.
But on a rainy day he is more than happy to put on a show for his grandkids and relive the good old days with memorabilia he keeps in a trunk in the attic.
The book establishes a background of Vaudeville and the life of a performer, good information for children who wish to follow such a career path or who are interested in such things.
I also wish the story had included more three dimensional characters and a true plot with a rising and falling action and a climax, I believe those are things children would enjoy and benefit from as well.
This Caldecott winner is a great example of how figurative language can make readers feel as if they are in the story and how illustrations can add to the text.
The figurative language that is seen in almost every sentence is a beautiful and very descriptive way the reader can connect and imagine the sounds during the grandfather’s performances, rather than just telling the reader what the sounds were.
As you read throughout this book you get the story through one of the voices of the grandchildren, so the way they think and feel towards visiting their grandparents and how they feel towards their grandfather’s performances could be how our students would feel in the same situation.
He tells them to follow him up to the attic, where a large black box is sitting.
Grandpa opens the box, slipping on his tap shoes and his large black hat.
Breaking out into tap music, dancing all around the attic, the children are amazed.
They never knew grandpa could dance and play music the way he did.
They sit back and watch their grandpa put on a show for them, showing them what it was like to grow up in his generation.
Critique: When walking up to the attic, there wasn’t much background information on what the grandpas childhood was like.
Illustrator Stephen Gammell really captures the liveliness of the story using colored pencil as his media for the story Song and Dance Man. This fun and lighthearted book is about three children learning about their grandfather’s time as a song and dance man before television consumed people’s lives.
Each illustration shows excitement in the character’s expressions, such as when the children try on some of their grandpa’s old props and begin dancing.
This is a very expressive and colorful book and will surely remind kids that even adults in their life can be exciting.
The story, Song and Dance Man, tell a story of a grandpa sharing his old hobby with his three grandkids.
In the end of the story the text and pictures show how much love he has for his grandkids but also how much he misses always being the song and dance man.
This story embodies the love for family and ones passion by connecting the two.
I would read this story and discuss with my class what a hobby is.
We could all come together and share a passion or even spark conversation with family members.
Song and Dance Man by Karen Ackerman is a heart-warming story about a grandfather sharing his previous experiences and demonstrating the things he learned as a Vaudeville dancer with his grandchildren.
This is a wonderful representation of the way that he shares the magic of his past experiences with his grandchildren.
While I think that it would have been nice if some more historical information had been included, I believe that this would be a wonderful book to give to upper level beginning readers in order to show them how interesting history can be and value of exploring past time periods.
He was a great performer and is reminiscing on his past life as a performer.
I liked this picture fiction because it was very whimsical and fun to read.
Song and Dance Man would be a great addition to the classroom!
The book could be a great way to get students to talk to their grandparents or the older generation about their lives.
I would have students read the book, then interview a special family member or person in their lives.
Song and Dance Man is a wonderful story about reflecting and appreciating the past.
It's a really different kind of look.
The faces look kind of creepy though.
The story is solid - the grandkids visit their grandpa, and he used to be a vaudeville performer so he puts on a show for them which they love.
This book kind of dates itself.
When it was written in the 80s, it was quite possible to have a grandpa who performed in vaudeville, but today that would be really rare.
The popularity of vaudeville tapered off in the 1930s (if I'm not mistaken) so it's not a subject kids today would be very familiar with, and it would have been educational and interesting to provide more background information.
This book is about a grandfather remembering the "good old days" where he would preform on a stage.
The grandfather is with his grandchildren and telling them about the times before TV.
The grandfather take the children to the attic and finds his treasures and puts on a show.
This is a realistic-fiction because it is a family who the grandfather who is remembering the times when he was younger.
This story is sweet because the grandchildren is seeing a side of the grandfather that they haven't really seen and it allows for the grandfather to show them what he used to do when he was younger.
