https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1396760.Warleggan
My idiot self read the 5th book before this one! 😂🤣. I was wondering what the hell was going on when I read the other one! I mean I watch and own the shows but it was still off! Now I know!! Although, I could have skipped this one because this is the one in which Ross made me so mad I wanted to throw him off the roof! But I digress! Moving on .... Happy Reading! Mel 🖤🐶🐺🐾
Some of these characters seem like little children that have been led astray- I may be angry with them but deep down I still care.
It’s hard to say too much without giving anything away – I don’t want to ruin this for any readers that are considering the series.
"George did not spend his time in company which cared nothing for his approval or disapproval."In a curious turn of events, we see Ross playing the role of matchmaker.
I love pairing the books with the series, a little at a time.
As I finish one book, I watch 3 or 4 episodes and it all feels so real to me!
5 STARSOMFG! I am so hopelessly lost in this series!!! I cannot believe this was written by a man. I so would have loved to have know Winston Graham. A rare exceptional man, I expect. Sensational writing.
The treacherous George Warleggan attempts to destroy Ross's life at every opportunity but thanks to a kind deed from an anonymous Good Samaritan he manages to thwart Warleggan's schemes.(view spoiler)[Sadly, Francis loses his life in the mine and he leaves his widow Elizabeth and their child destitute so Ross beggers himself by scraping up the 600 pounds to buy Elizabeth's worthless stock in the mine.
But once Ross has partaken of forbidden fruit he surprisingly realizes he no longer desires her and never returns to see her after that incident, leaving her with no other option than to marry George Warleggan.
In this fourth installment of the series, an unexpected tragedy sets of a series of events that could prove disastrous for Ross and his family. When his long-time sweetheart Elizabeth announces that she will remarry to Ross's long-time nemesis George Warleggan, Ross makes a decision in a random moment of anger that threatens to destroy his and Demelza's relationship forever. Can Demelza forgive Ross, or will she try and hurt him in the same way? This book was thrilling installment full of betrayal and redemption.
The whole Poldark series is a literary set of gems but this is a standout piece of writing.
I cried reading parts of this book, something very rare for me.
Warleggan has to be one of the most heart wrenching books I have read, it is a beautifully written study of a marriage in crisis - this book shows how cruel people can unwittingly be to those who love them.
I am in awe that this male author has that very rare skill of writing his female characters as believably as his male.

I am torn about this installment in the series. The writing continues to be excellent, and the majority of the plot was entertaining. HOWEVER, I'm not sure I can enjoy the continuing storyline ever again after one of the main characters acted so unforgivably, horribly wrong at one point in the story.
Another excellent addition to the Poldark series. Each book covers about two years of day to day life. Graham's writing is top notch as he portrays life in 1790's Cornwall. This book had a couple of devastating (to me) events occur that I really don't want to even hint at, that would be spoiling. There were high points as well. Worth every one of those 5 stars.
Warleggan es un libro de esos que no te deja indiferente, que te hace querer "tirar personajes por los acantilados" (eh Gema?
He de decir que para leer este libro hay que tener muy, muy claro, pero muy muy mucho, el contexto histórico en que transcurre y también el año en que fue escrito.
Ross es un personaje que me ha hecho sentir un odio supremo.
También he de decir que me encanta encontrarme este tipo de personajes y este tipo de historia que me plantean un reto tan grande.
"It's nearly twelve," he said. "Let us sit up awhile and call it Christmas tonight."Five stars once again. Winston Graham's writing just never gets old. I truly believe I could read these novels until I've memorized every word and still find them just as raw and emotional as if reading them for the first time.
Este libro ha sido una montaña rusa de emociones. He sufrido y lo he pasado fatal fatal como únicamente lo he pasado con "El jardín de verano". Aquí he acabado odiando a personajes que adoraba y queriendo más aún a otros, Demelza y Dwight sobre todo. Este es escritor no tiene consideración alguna con el sufrido lector.Una fucking maravilla de libro.
Ahora mismo estoy en la mierda más absoluta.¿Cómo han podido llegar a esto?¿Cómo han podido hacerme esto?Estoy en shock.
Lots of highs and lows for our beloved Ross and Demelza, as well as some dear friends.
Though there were things here that made me furious at least (view spoiler)[Ross has finally found that he cares nothing for Elizabeth.
I thought all along that he loved more the idea of her (hide spoiler)], so I would be happy for that if nothing else.This family has me completely ensnared in their lives!
I'll be soon picking up The Black Moon, because I need to know all the things (view spoiler)[like who the father of Elizabeth's baby is, though I would want to quit reading if it's Ross (hide spoiler)]!!
I must confess to loving this couple and cringing at the idea that they will not have their own happy ending...but happiness can be an elusive thing in this 1790s world of Cornwall.As the name suggests, we begin to see George come into his own and the Warleggans figure very prominent in Ross’ destiny.
By the end of this volume, the field is beginning to be evened by Ross’ success at Wheal Grace, and it leaves me in anticipation of how the fight may change now that Ross has some resources with which to counter-punch.By this point in the story, I am totally committed to these characters and their fate.
Another fine installment of the Poldark series, although this one broke my heart "Ross, how could you?!"

Even better for re-reading!Ross Poldark's last gamble ......He risks his happiness with Demelza as he tangles with the powerful Warleggan.A very moving book with twists and turns over love.I would recommend reading as the Poldark books have so much social history and are beautifully written.A powerful moving book!I loved it!
Ross and his cousin Francis are trying to keep afloat a mine that they have maintained for some time.
But Ross is hard put to get the necessary additional financing and finds himself falling deeper in debt.
The growing power and influence of Warleggan throughout the novel is highlighted, as are the lives of Ross & Demelza, Francis & Elizabeth Poldark, Dr. Dwight Enys (a close and trusted friend of Ross, whose radical approach to practicing medicine has made him both loved and scorned throughout the district), and Caroline Penwenen.
Ross and Demelza, in particular, experience some struggles that put their marriage to the test.
Ugggghh!!!! This book was a roller coaster!! From "Ross, you idiot!" to "My poor Demelza," to "Oh no, Ross!" and back again!! I was so cared for the ending, but it was beautiful! I cried a few times reading this, and again at the end! I don't want to spoil this one for anyone, because it's such a huge plot twist in the series... but I think this may be my favorite Poldark novel so far!!So anxious for Aidan and Eleanor to return to it in Series 2 this September! Gaaaahh!!!
“When you bring an idealised relationship down to the level of an ordinary one it isn't necessarily the ordinary one that suffers'.”With every new part I'm more and more in love with this series. Can't wait to read the next part. I need more Dwight & Caroline.
After reading a particular incident within this book especially, my opinion of Ross Poldark has darkened greatly. Listening to people brush it off as a folly of poor character is sickening.
He then proceeds to abandon a fabulous new mansion to go live in the Poldark homestead, Trenwith, right next door to Ross, in order to twist the knife still further.
A "forced" liaison with Elizabeth, which Demelza instantly tumbles to, results in damn near a year of very cold feelings, and in Demelza almost throwing herself on the adultery train with a military man.
Yes, I suppose so, but I will be much, much more cautious about my feelings for Ross, which up until this book have been completely positive.Looking forward to seeing what happens with Caroline, yet another character I can't figure out.
Lots of things start to pay off here, but also some huge disappointments... Francis, Ross, and... well, Elizabeth was always a bitch, wasn't she? But Verity's life is mostly on track (we have yet to see the new stepdaughter get over herself), and then there's the mine. For good measure, George gets knocked on his arse a couple of times. I'm really hoping there's a good heart attack or stroke in his future. Brief because I have two books to go and the new series starts this weekend. Whee!
So far the most intriguing. The series builds. It is wonderful! Of the characters - sometimes you want to hit Ross over the head even though he's enchanting, and sometimes you want to do the same to Elizabeth because she is not! Not a fan of Elizabeth!
intento que un libro no me afecte, en este caso ha sido inevitable, si tuviera delante a más de un personaje no se como reaccionaría. Demelza es una heroína ahí lo dejo.
Poor Francis...Oh Ross what did you do???!!!!
This series is just getting better and better.
Considering the fact that I've watched the first two seasons of Poldark on PBS and had some previous knowledge of what would take place, Graham still managed to keep me glued to the story and only a master storyteller could do that.Graham's attention to detail makes these characters come to life!
However, while reading this series, especially this installment: Warleggan, I found myself drawn into the lives of the female characters.
I am not saying the men in this saga are not worthy of mention, far from it, I'm just suggesting the female cast members are challenging, smart, strong, and stand their ground in this character driven novel.
