https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/369594.Chase
So I really enjoyed this - nice, trim, fast read. Also, I know Koontz has taken flack for writing characters who are "too good" or "too evil" and making things too black and white, and while I do find stories with realistic moral conflicts and characters struggling with their inner darkness engaging, at times it's just refreshing to read a character like Ben Chase, someone who's going to do the right thing, simply because it's right.
This is an early book by Dean Koontz written under a pseudonym.
It is still recognizable as one of his stories.
The main character is a man named Ben Chase who has returned from Vietnam war disillusioned and plagued by guilt which he tries to fix through therapy and bottles of whiskey.
Along the way,in trying to find Judge he meets different characters-some sympathetic and others not so much.
This is recognizable as a Koontz story but an early one.
Even saying that, this is a good and fast-paced story that most who like suspense and thrillers will enjoy.
But the killer has carefully selected the couple, does not appreciate Chase's intervention and starts making threatening phone calls naming himself only as 'Judge'.
The killer makes it clear that he knows a lots about Chase's past and is prepared to hurt him and those he cares about to punish him.
The police don't believe Chase, believing him delusional after consulting with his psychiatrist, and when Chase meets the beautiful Glenda and suddenly has a lot more to lose he turns the tables and the hunted becomes the hunter.
Really good, satisfying and makes you think about judgement and the lack of right we have to judge others.
Koontz gives a convincing portrait of a medal of honor winner loved by the world but disgusted with himself.
He saves the life of a young girl threatened by a serial killer, and the book rocks along well for the first half or so.
It becomes more formulaic as it goes along, and Koontz seems to lose interest in it by the end, awarding Chase an unconvincing romance that makes him feel life is worth living after all.
The ending is unconvincing and fails to reach its potential, almost as though Koontz was on deadline and had to finish any way he could.
If you go back far enough in Dean Koontz's career, you'll find he started out as a science fiction writer.
CHASE, which was originally published under the bland pseudonym "K.R. Dwyer" (Koontz's initials backwards), was his very first thriller.
And, as with many of Koontz's early books, it was later revised and published under his real name.As far as thrillers go, CHASE is pretty generic.
Koontz's strategy for revising it was seemingly to strip it to the bone and keep the story moving ahead as swiftly as possible.
Koontz's first suspense novel. Pretty good for a first.
He realized that his chilvaric ways are what had gotten him in the papers to beign with, but he couldn't just not do anything when someone needed help.He stopped a man with a knife from killing a young woman.
He says e will be called the Judge and that he killed the boy because he was a sinner and a phornicator an since Chase stopped him from also killing the girl, Chase will now get Judged as well.The man says he will review his past behavior and decide whether he must die or not.
But in revisiting Koontz’s early works, it still stood up to giving me the hee-bee-gee-bees.‘Chase’ was published under another name (K.R. Dwyer) when it was initially released.Ben Chase is a medically discharged soldier tackling PTSD who happened across, and intervened in a murder at a local make-out/lookout point.
I was beginning to dislike Chase somewhat and found him difficult to relate to (though I am not the demographic for this novel) and wish she’d been introduced earlier to soften the rough edges, bringing some emotion in earlier to the plot line.Maybe because I’ve read widely in this genre for the past 30 years, and a considerable number of Koontz’s later books, the plot was very predictable.
This is an early Dean Koontz novel. It was originally published in 1971 as by K.R. Dwyer and reworked by Koontz for his 1995 STRANGE HIGHWAYS collection. It is a quick and suspenseful read. It, at least the reworked edition, is a prime example of why Dean Koontz is, simply put, the best modern writer of the suspense story.
It was probably more shocking when it came out due to its subject matter and the few twists. Today after being desensitized by years' work of art, it feels like a small, prim and proper mystery story. Nothing groundbreaking but still well-written. It's an alright read for the beach or for those travelling hours.
This was the first ever book by Dean Koontz i had read. I found it to be a great page turner and a super fast read. 3 days and i was done. A great fast short read and i was not disappointed. kept me on the edge of my seat/bed. i will be sinking my teeth into alot more Koontz books for sure.
Not a bad read. Not a normal Koontz book but interesting all the same. Sometimes it's nice to get away from supernatural things and just have a real human story. The ending wasn't what I expected.
This is an old, short Koontz novel, quite different from his more recent topics. I connected well with his main character and enjoyed the twists and turns of this easy read.
This is a great read

I recently reread a short suspense novel written as by K.
CHASE is a dark and disturbing novel.
The prose is crisp and with a touch of melancholy—“Maybe it was better to be without a woman than to die and leave behind one who grieved so briefly as this.”It opens as a straight forward suspense novel—how will Chase save himself from Judge—to something approaching a vigilante novel.
Chase isn’t one of Dean Koontz’s big novels, and it may not appeal to most of his current readership, but it a fine example of high velocity classic suspense.
My copy is old and purchased when I first started reading Dean Koontz around the time his book, Strangers, came out.
This isn't a bad thriller but it's very much a product of its time.
It's a decent read of its time and there's nothing wrong with that, but I can understand why many will have problems with this; it's a problem every writer faces when science and technology move on.
If you want a bit of classic Koontz there are still many good things here, especially in the first half of the book, but he's written many that are better.
This was very obviously one of Koontz's first books, even if the pseudonym didn't give it away.
The writing is very stilted, and I'm not sure why all the British spelling (kerb, tyre, etc.).
The dialogue is stilted and robotic, the characters are shallow and not very interesting.
The story could be good, but it almost needs a re-write with some major development.
I was saddened that the ending was so one dimensional and "happily ever after," especially after all the angst the main character fights with throughout the book.
It's hard to believe he just sets his PTSD aside and skips merrily into the sunset.
This may be one of my favorite Koontz books, even as one of his earliest novels. I had a bit of trepidation about reading some of his older works, just wondering if his writing style would be so different that I might not enjoy them as much, but I'm happy to say that was not the case. He can take what turns out to be simplest tales and still somehow make you sit on the edge of your seat waiting to find out what happens.
Resolution had flawed motivations. I liked the initial contact between the villain and the hero and the possibility that they might be one in the same.The beginnings of a story that didn't quite eventuate.
A little bit of a disappointmentI firmly believe that Dean Koontz is currently one of the best writers on the market. But this effort fell short of his exacting standards.
enjoyed this book only read a couple of Koontz books but will definitely read more its a early one of his I hadn't heard of it before reading so didn't know what to think but good read fairplay!!
A nice short thriller from the early career of Dean Koontz. Good suspense and intensity.
Good classic Koontz.
Although a short novel (212 pages) it was packed with suspense. It was fast-paced, with no nonsense or filler. A really enjoyable read.
Fantastic as everDean never fails to give a fantastic story with a special twist. His tales whether new or old are always first class.
excellent
Nice and entertaining quick read
3.5
Good vs Bad ..Good always winsDean Koontz "chase" make it simple to every reader..good one to read
