https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/194692.A_Thousand_and_One_Afternoons_in_Chicago
He was also successful as a playwright, co-authoring “The Front Page.” His list of film credits as author or co-author reads like a history of the Hollywood film industry.
To name just a few, he wrote – or directed his story ideas – for films like “Stagecoach.” He divided his time between crime films and comedies.
In the former category, he contributed to “Scarface,” and “Notorious.” For comedies, he was responsible for titles like “Twentieth Ceentury,” “Nothing Sacred,” and “Monkey Business.” This book – which is a marvelous read – collects a goodly number of his columns when he wrote for The Chicago Daily News.
It was probably in part because I'm from Chicago, so many of the things Hecht wrote about were familiar to me.
For anyone from Chicago, some of the columns reminded me of Mike Royko who wrote for the Tribune when I was growing up (early 1980s).
While Hecht writes about the 1920s, and clearly the population was dealing with the aftermath of the first world war, what is sobering is how some things about people in cities haven't changed.
I hope we can find a place for journalism like this in the age of the internet.
Nevertheless, I can honestly select "I liked it" as a rating.
This collection of Hecht's newspaper sketches of everyday life in interwar Chicago is highly readable and amusing in exactly the sardonic way one would expect from the (co-) author of The Front Page or Hecht's many, many Hollywood screenplays; that's why I picked it up.
The problem is that in this form it's too much of a muchness; I can imagine a Chicago newspaper reader looking forward to the next Hecht piece, but read all at once like this they become monotonous.
I can imagine it's an invaluable resource for Hecht scholars, if there are such folks, but for everyone else a couple of selections will go a long way.
An excellent collection of Hecht's Chicago Daily News columns from 1921. His essays explore the gamut of Roaring Twenties Chicago, from flappers to financiers to broken laborers. Even the most hopeless of his characters still maintains a quiet dignity.
I loved this book. Maybe it helps to be from Chicago. I got it when I was working and would read it on my commute on the el. Very entertaining. The newspaper man eyeing everybody, asking beaucoup questions.He committed himself to writing a daily column about the people that he met in the street. Sometimes it seemed like it was a bit of a stretch.
What a great look into the past! Hecht captured feelings and experiences of the every day person in 1920's Chicago. A lot of the stories have a somber tone, but some were surprisingly funny. And a couple stories made fun of my place of employment! I especially appreciated that, and they were still funny!
This is a series of 1001 short works written one a day for 1001 days! They are very interesting, funny, thought provoking beautifully written short stories. Of course you do find yourself wishing that some of them would keep going!
Great little stories and essays and rants by this sometimes screenwriter, novelist, newspaper man, genius.
There were dramatic studies often intensely subjective, lit with the moods of Ben himself, not of the things dramatized.
There were self-revelations characteristically frank and provokingly debonaire.
There were subtle jabs at well-established Babbitry."A few are still worth reading.
Some of them weren't even worth the newsprint they were first printed on.
The fiction of authors like Edna Ferber or Frank Norris gives a much clearer picture than this soi-disant journalism.Hecht is at his best when he concentrates on individuals or the ironies of the newspaper business — as in these vignettes:"Don Quixote and His Last Windmill""The Watch Fixer""Vagabondia""The Man from Yesterday"
Not really a novel so much as a collection of sketches of people from all walks of life and how they get by in The Big City. I enjoyed most of it a great deal, however I have to admit that there's something awfully slight about them. None of the characters' profiles go into any great depth at all and there's nothing terribly enlightening about the stories, either. It's almost like the literary equivalent to television: entertaining, but don't think you'll remember much after reading it.
What fun! I picked this up free for the Kindle and finally started dipping into it on my 'L' rides. These are newspaper columns he wrote for the Chicago Daily News in the early 1920s. A lively, humorous, and often startlingly familiar look at life in Chicago at the beginning of Prohibition. I was sorry to finish it.
Nice character sketches.
absolutely fantastic. a must-read for any chicago-lover.
True stories from a journalist. "a lens into City life.". This is another book I keep on nightstand, and read a chapter\story at a time.
A wonderful window into the Chicago of 90 years ago, and a very early example of relating human interest stories in the newspaper.
The book has changed the way I look at people on the train and on the street, and even the buildings: I am trying to peer beneath the surface, to see them through Hecht's curious journalist's eyes.The vignettes range from humorous, Damon Runyonesque character sketches to modernist meditations on life, art, urban living...his range is vast.
Mood has given way to mode." The piece develops into a paean to taxicabs and the mysterious lives of the people ensconced within: "A teasing procession for the eye and the thought."This selection made me want more (the other 400+ columns are uncollected).
Early sketches from this great writer when he was working as a journalist in the 1920s. Although not a great novel, like a band's first album, it shows the spark of things to come. Ben Hecht (with his writing partner Charles McCarthy) was possibly the greatest writer of screenplays of all time.
This is a collection of sketches of Chicago characters from the 1920s. I am not sure what I expected, but this was not it. However, I enjoyed reading a few of these a day. I live in Chicago now, so it was interesting to see reference to Chicago places and institutions that are still around as well as those now gone. You get a good taste of the different kinds of characters that populated the city then. There is some distance and irony but also compassion for these folks.
