https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/59897.Wanderlust
Beware! You really do get Wanderlust after reading this book!
The story is captivating and I loved the character of Audrey.
The book takes you through a lot of emotions and I did cry when I was reading about Audrey adopting Mai Li. I thought to myself how much courage one needs to do what she did.
Later also when Audrey explained why she couldn't marry him, he should have empathized with her and if the love they shared was so strong he could have waited for her.
Later when Charlie got separated from her, it was so easy for him to get back to Audrey.
Barring the above points, the book is lovely!
Es una historia preciosa, contada con mucha sensibilidad, me ha encantado que la autora mezcla personajes y acontecimientos reales de la Segunda Guerra Mundial dentro de la ficción. Está muy bien documentada. Ha hecho que Audrey y Charles sean personajes fuertes, valientes, aventureros y me ha permitido viajar por distintas partes del mundo, con sus excelentes descripciones. Mi estreno con Steel no pudo ser mejor. La recomiendo!!
Wanderlust, Danielle Steelعنوان: سفر عشق؛ نویسنده: دانیل استیل؛ مترجم: سعید درودی؛ تهران، مهتاب، بهزاد 1372، 463 ص
AMAZING!!!
Lo que todo el mundo desconoce es que ella posee el mismo espíritu aventurero de su padre; ansía viajar y descubrir el mundo entero, aunque solo tienen un inconveniente: no puede dejar sola al abuelo.
Todos los personajes tienen problemas de ricos (es decir, no saben si viajar a China o Japón, si marcharse a EEUU o quedarse una semana más en la Costa Azul…), lo cual me genera un poco de impotencia, dicho sea de paso.De todas maneras, si tengo que recomendar algo de Danielle Steel recomendaría, entre otros, este, ya que la historia en sí está muy bien trabajada y puede resultar preciosa en muchas ocasiones.
The reader really begins to hate Annabelle for she never encourages Audrey to live her dreams, but complains and whines when she is gone.
When she returns, her relationship with Annabelle is beyond repair, as the younger sister "needed" her to help take care of her two kids.
She doesn't seem to care about the grandfather (those feelings may have been founded) but help with her own life.Audrey keeps feeling the tug to go back abroad to friends she has made, and a guy she had met and subsequently, stayed with and began to love.
I don't know whether it's the timing I have read this book or the wanderlust that lingers in the heart which made me fall in love with this book only after reading first few pages.
feeling of wanderlust tied the 2 main characters together and their journey of togetherness, separation, struggle and reunion made my heart ache for them.
loved every sentence written in this book, though the part of staying back in China to run an orphanage seemed too much and too daring for a woman in 1930s.
Story is full of twists and surprises and is an interesting read.

I think I couldn't have read this book faster.
So with all of this said I think you can pretty much tell I fell in love with this story.
When I first started the book I thought it was slow and repetitive but as I kept on reading I understood it was because Audrey's life was that way.
I have to say the romance between those two started quickly and developed itself in a way that only happens in books but I loved it.
Back in the time of maids,servants,and timed meals.At some point in the book,the older sister and main character decides she wants to see a bit of the world,and follow the scrapbooks her parents left her when they died,but that is where everything really starts for this rather sheltered,ahead of her time young womans' life really begins.Some sadness,tragedy,love,friendship,war,England,Hitler,the Orient Express,and the Asias,are where the main part of the story really takes place.
I have always felt like it doesn't matter who wrote the novel if it grabs you.
If it holds your attention and makes you love reading, who cares what it is.
The only characters I really like are Audrey, Violet, and James.
Yes, it's outlandish and ridiculous and would likely never happen.
Yes, all of Steel's characters are extremely gorgeous people and all fabulously wealthy, even during the Depression.
I love rereading it, and I take it with me on every trip because reading it again just makes me feel like no matter where I am, I have something that is familiar and lovely.
Although her parents were killed while traveling, Audrey Driscoll always dreamed of traveling to romantic and exotic places much to the dismay of her sister and grandfather.
Along the way she met her dearest friends and the love of her life whom she followed to the orient.
She found herself in charge of a orphanage and brought one of the orphans home with her to San Francisco when she was able to leave.
Her passion brought her back to Europe just as the Nazis were coming to power and she was reunited with her love...lurid and schmaltzy I enjoyed this action packed adventure/romance.
AUDREY WAS MORE LIKE A MOTHER TO ANNIE THAN A SISTER, AFTER ALL SHE HELPED HER WITH EVERYTHING.
AUDREY TOOK CARE OF THEIR GRANDFATHER TOO!
SHE EVEN HIRED AND FIRED THE HELP AND TOOK CARE OF GRANDFATHER'S HOUSE.
SO IT'S NO WONDER THAT WHEN ANNIE GOT MARRIED AND HAD A BABY & TURNED 21 THAT 26 YEAR OLD AUDREY DECIDED TO LET ANNIE BECOME THE WIFE AND MOTHER SHE WAS SUPPOSED TO BE AND NOT TO DEPEND ON AUDREY.
AUDREY DECIDED THAT SHE WOULD GO OUT AND SEE THE WORLD, LIKE HER PARENTS DID.
My all time favorite book. Beautifully written and a pleasure to read again and again. It's a wonderful romantic story that takes you through high society San Fransisco, the glamorous South of France, the horrors of World World II, and back again. Audrey and Charlie are such a fascinating couple and truly meant to be. Danielle Steel can truly play on your emotions and make you feel so much. I read this every few years and am never disappointed.
Wonderful ride through WW2 Great love story interspersed with the horrors of WW2. War details are made realistic as they affect the lives of two couples and their families. Courage and perseverance abound as the characters face many challenges in their personal and war related experiences
Was so amazing ! I love Danielle Steel :)
Super story!
as adorable as always...:)
If you love travel and romance then I highly recommend this read.
One of the best books written by Danielle Steel.
I really liked this book and enjoyed the travels of the characters.
One of my favorite books!
soooooooooooooooooooooooo freaking good!!!!!! one of my new fav books of all time!!!
Great book. The title says it all and leaves you with a lust for travel.
A fun and interesting read. I loved traveling the world, across time, with a highly relatable protagonist and it satisfied my wanderlusting heart to a certain extent.
No me esperaba para nada este libro, sorprenderte.Viaje por todo el mundo, me angustié con sus angustias y lloré con sus tragedias.Recomendable para un fin de semana :)
Charles, on the other hand, seemed like he made a lot of choices simply for the convenience of the plot, and never truly felt like he had a solid characterization, I think.In terms of Charlotte, (view spoiler)[when Charles ends up trying to divorce her because of the whole "I lied about being pregnant" thing, she refuses to capitulate and divorce him, despite no love existing between the two of them.
Which...it felt, not really out of place, but I think as though it didn't really seem like that was the truth, and that Danielle Steel just didn't want her characters to be homophobic.
I read loads of 1980s Danielle Steel when I was young. I found this book recently and wanted to see what she was like, to my grown-up self. Bloomin’ awful was the answer! It gets two stars for being laugh out loud funny but mostly the writing was repetitious and bland. It seemed like she didn’t have an editor perhaps? Anyway there was little Wanderlust and this was a tale of boring rich people. The general in China who “almost...exuded manly powers” and Rommel were my favourite characters so maybe she should have turned her hand to war stories?
Picked this up randomly from a second-hand book sale. When i finally got round to reading it, i couldn't put it down. one of my all time favourite novels. the story-line was not what i expected at all, i thought it would be time-pass romance novel
