https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/131191.Life_Among_the_Savages
It consists of vignettes regarding daily life, such as: a bus trip to the store for school clothes, with 3 children, a doll carriage, a doll, etc..., or a game of musical chairs, except it involves a sick household and beds instead of chairs.
Somehow Shirley threads all of these short stories into a narrative that I think most mothers will relate to, even though it took place in the 1940's, (written in the 50's.)It's difficult to believe that this is the same author of some of my favorite books, (The Haunting of Hill House!!), because the tone and style is so different.
4 stars for the story, 1 additional star for the wonderful narration.
If I could adopt a parent, it would be Shirley Jackson.
She smoked like a chimney, and (according to her youngest son, who became a nutritionist) consumed a pound of butter a day.
In other words, she is the mom I always wanted.
LIFE AMONG THE SAVAGES is among her greatest work.
It's an account of her life as a mom and housewife.
Nobody can evoke the chaos of a houseful of kids like Jackson.
The fact that she managed to write so many great books and stories while raising 4 kids (and an immature husband to boot) is utterly staggering.
Life Among the Savages is a charming memoir of the author's domestic life.
Jackson possesses a dry wit that she doses out in plenty.This book is episodic rather than continuous.
There's an episode in which a trip to the bank leads to the children sitting on Santa's lap, which leads to Santa promising all sorts of presents to the children which the author cannot afford (ten points if you can guess who was dressed up as Santa.) Then there's another in which the eldest boy returns home from school everyday to report the exploits of a very ill-behaved boy in his class.
Here's a very funny novel (actually, a compilation of interlinked stories) about a mommy, a daddy, and a powerhouse-full of children and assorted pets who give up Manhattan's crowded post-World War II real estate market for the dubious comforts of life in snowy Vermont.
The author is Shirley Jackson, usually associated with macabre stories and novels like "The Lottery" and THE HAUNTING OF HILL HOUSE.
Sadly, due to multiple addictions to liquor, smoking, pills and even chocolate (obesity), not to mention likely overwork, the real Shirley Jackson did not live to see fifty.
It's hilarious, but also a fascinating look, as a mother, into another time.
A time when you put your daughter in an organdy party dress, white frilled socks, and white gloves to go to a birthday party, and were yourself embarrassed to realize that you were wearing jeans when you met the birthday girl's mother.
Her children's imaginary friends are presenting in an almost sinister fashion.
You can see shades of these things in her fiction, you can see the crumbling house taking a darker turn, the imaginary friends .
Creepy and yet hilarious that she didn't just pretend to be a mother with feisty daughters, but the stepmother, with seven daughters .
Shirley Jackson is most known for writing what the critics often call the best short story of all time and the best haunted house novel of all time.
Lesser known, but no less of an achievement, is Life Among the Savages which could very well be the best novel of parenting anecdotes.
Only a master writer can capture the hilarity of children rearing and Shirley Jackson proves herself an historic talent here more than ever.
I laughed out loud the whole way through, and I have never raised a child.Shirley also disproves the theory that adverbs are always a sign of weak writing.
"Name?" The desk clerk said to me politely... "Age?" She asked..."Occupation?" "Writer," I said. "Housewife," she said. "Writer," I said. "I'll just put down housewife, she said. "Husband's name?" She said..."Occupation?" "Just put down housewife," I said. My first delve into Shirley Jackson's non-fiction was beyond satisfying. I've read her horror, as well as Ruth Ware's fantastic biography, and now, her humour. Life Among the Savages is a sort of memoir, Jackson reflecting on the mundanity of
"Age?" She asked..."Occupation?" "Writer," I said.
Life Among the Savages is a sort of memoir, Jackson reflecting on the mundanity of domestic life as well as raising her children - first two, then three, and by the end of the book, four.
It's comforting to know that this book, first published in 1953, still rings true today.
Those without kids can still enjoy this book - Jackson's storytelling is as perfect here is it is in her fiction.
Either way, this is a worthy read for any Jackson fan and I can't wait to dig into Raising Demons, this book's successor.
I was reading The Haunting of Hill House when I discovered that Author Shirley Jackson also wrote humorous short stories about her life in Vermont raising three children in the 40's and 50's.
Her stories of the gigantic old house they rented in Vermont, conversations over bridge with friends, the antics of her children, and her failings as a housekeeper are light and funny.
One of my favorite parts of this book is when Jackson's husband is sitting on the sofa alone reading The Wizard of Oz to one of his daughter's imaginary friends, while his daughter is up in her room.
For someone with neither kids nor any interest in having kids, I have read a weirdly large number of memoirs about parenting.
Shirley Jackson's Life Among the Savages is, though slight, perfectly charming and funny.
When faced with travails such as a housekeeper who ices cookies with SINNER, REPENT in pink frosting and a daughter who insists that she is also a much older woman with an entire brood of daughters of her own, all of whom have to be acknowledged, what else can you do but laugh and then scream into a pillow?
All in all, delightful but inessential.
I don't know what I had expected of Shirley Jackson's domestic memoir. Heartfelt authenticity, sure. A characteristic tone that is sensible instead of sentimental, of course. But it wasn't such endearing humour. I do wish it was longer - even though the vignettes are about the mundane aspects of daily life (albeit with serious moments that shed light on her family's financial struggles), Shirley presents them in such a gripping, charming way.
It's so interesting finally turning to read her tongue-in-cheek domestic writing after all of her horror, because you can still see the commonalities between her different genres as a writer: this fixation on old creaking houses, the importance of setting, small towns, overflowing bric-a-brac and every item being in its right place, being fearful of society's judgment, plus just the slow creeping existential horror of being a parent.
The children and all their surreal adventures and whims are hysterical, especially in the way they blithely hammer on their poor parents' nerves and insecurities (e.g. Laurie's scathing judgment of his parents for not having drivers' licenses, o m g).As always, Jackson's writing is sharp and incisive and so funny.
Even though this book of short stories was published in the early 1950s the chaos of a daily life still ring true.
This is supposedly a "moderately fictionalized memoir" of Jackson's life with her children.
It is a light hearted book that brings humor to home life.
This book and "Raising Demons" have changed my writing style and how I view my own daily life in a positive way.
Reading these books puts daily life into a humorous perspective and the stories are anecdotes that heal me positive every time.
Shirley Jackson writes, in her brilliant deadpan humour, a slice-of-life memoir of raising children. Funny and sweet.
Not in the class of Erma Bombeck, not even Peg Bracken. Jackson intends to evoke humor from her family as they grow up in the New England hinterlands but this isn't her forte. She hits the right note on only a few situations, such as the last moments of her second pregnancy. Otherwise, I winced more than smiled.
An old favorite that I’ll never tire of reading. Since the children I use to have continue to make attempts to flee our home i particularly enjoyed the chapter about the family’s cats the most this time. I just mean to say the story holds my attention every time I read it at all these different seasons in my life.
Simultaneously laugh out loud funny and so dated that it made me cringe, this is a delightful good time if you can get past the fact that Jackson's husband is completely unable to do any sort of domestic task or discipline his children edited to add: and was also apparently cheating on Shirley for most of their marriage.
In addition to giving the world shattering books of keen psychological insight into the secret, dark soul of humanity, Jackson was also a loving mother of four, and here provides us with a generous helping of her wit and humor in this collection of stories about her family, turning everyday mishaps and adventures into something more - I almost even want to have kids now after reading this book to see what kind of hilarity would ensue within our own lives.
I cannot think of a preferable way of life, except one without children...."Jackson wrote many of these stories originally for publication in such magazines as Good Housekeeping and Mademoiselle, while at the same time raising her four demons (er, children) largely alone and writing her longer works of fiction.
Shirley Jackson's hilarious chronicle of New England domesticity, with precocious children (I love Sally, personally), disinterested husband, and Jackson herself as harried, neurotic wife. The grippe episode alone is worth five stars. The sequel, "Raising Demons," isn't quite as good, but it's still very funny and gives baby Barry a chance to become his own little person.
This is the first book I ever read where I said, "I want to be able to write like that." I read it when I was maybe 10, borrowed from my mother's shelves. If you want to know the single greatest influence on my writing style, this is it.Also, it never fails to make me laugh until I cry.
Many years later, my mother described her - and so many women of her generation - as (literally) eating her pain.When I was reading this so-called memoir, I was often reminded of my grandmother - and also some of the comic writers like Erma Bombeck and Betty Macdonald (both huge favourites of my grandmother) who were roughly contemporaneous with Jackson.
The hapless housewife that Jackson describes seems no more herself than Eleanor in The Haunting of Hill House; and indeed, in some ways, less so.There are some charming "bits" in this story, but like my grandmother's jokes, they tend to go on too long.
Personally, it was nice to see another, more amusing side of the critically acclaimed writer, best known for disturbing works like her short story "The Lottery".
Everyone always says the third baby is the easiest one to have, and now I know why.
(private room, three meals brought to me, no dishes, no laundry) I didn't want to leave the hospital, but they made me.Shirley Jackson died at the age of 48.
So sad.Would recommend this to moms and Shirley Jackson fans who would like to see the flawed, funny, and warm mother/woman behind some of horror's best fiction.
I think Shirley Jackson must be my kindred spirit.
She's as bad a cook as I am and resorts to many of the same tricks I did to keep my brood of four under control.
It's hard to see in this funny, clever, sometimes overwhelmed housewife the author of The Haunting of Hill House and "The Lottery." On the other hand, who else would be in a position to see the best and the worst of people than a woman living in a small Vermont town?
This is one of Ms. Jackson's nonfiction books she wrote about raising her kids in the 1950s. It is such a funny book. Her kids are riots, and she tells a really good story. It's way different than her horror novels and while reading it you're thinking, "I can't believe she wrote The Haunting of Hill House AND this." I wish she would have written much more nonfiction stuff. Not that her fiction is bad, it's great actually. You should read some. They're very psychological.
When I read the sentence about her daughter Jannie talking of a far away voice that sang to her from the corner of the room, I was like... YES, JACKSON IS GOING TO GET CREEPY NOW! No, I was wrong. But instead we get a glimpse of what every day life was like for Jackson and her house full of children. I enjoyed this book very much and am glad I picked it up.
So it was kind of inevitable that my recent focus on Shirley Jackson (Just an Ordinary Day: The Uncollected Stories) would direct me towards finally giving this famous offering a read.And, as others have noted, this is dry, low-key domestic humor as Jackson turns her wit and narrative abilities to the topics of child-rearing, homemaking and the like.
From there, we get an excellent example of Jackson the stylist describing something like the prenatal delirium that accompanies a birth (as well as capturing all kinds of small social observations), and then contrasting that with her postnatal state.
At the beginning of this year I knew who Shirley Jackson had been, but had not read anything of her works.
Now I have read two, first the short story The Lottery and and a little later this one, and I'm becoming a fan.
The Lottery is a great dystopian short story, but this is so different.
But I read the book before reading anything about her life, and as a story in itself has got humor, warmth and some oddness.
The conversation between her and one of the nurses is hilarious, and that is just one of the high points of this book.Having read this book I have got great respect for Shirley Jackson.
Shirley Jackson is an astoundingly good writer. Her horror is breathtakingly frightening and this biography is breathtakingly hilarious. Both show the absurdity of the everyday. Jackson just *gets it*. She has such an understanding of people that even her stories about mundane tasks are told with wisdom and charm. This may be a case of reading the right book at the right time, but this is definitely a new favorite. I see many rereads in my future for when I need a sweet, funny book about family life. p.s. The narrator, Lesa Lockford, was a delight!
Reading this made me feel crazy. How did she not murder her children and her husband? I wanted to scream and throttle them and scream again just reading about it. It's funny and all, but it's so bleak. Just an unrelenting onslaught of demands, unceasing chaos.Reflecting on my time as an au pair for three kids around these kids' ages, I imagine it must be love/reluctance to serve time/aversion to death that keeps the primary parent from killing their offspring and useless partner and making it all stop.
This was a very funny read. The antics of her daughters particularly had me cracking up. It was a treat to see this side of Shirley Jackson because I had only read her fiction before this. I'm looking forward to reading the sequel soon.
Basically one extended opus about how Shirley Jackson wasn't meant to be a housewife but acted the part. I love this woman.
