https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/11437.Where_I_m_Calling_From
We feel a kind of kinship with the narrator as she tells the story and speaks of the fat man's fat fingers, his puffing as he sits at the table, his referring to himself as "we." And when she is in bed that night with her boyfriend, we are given the sense that she is at the beginning of a life transformation as a result of her contact with the fat man.NEIGHBORSBookkeeper Bill and secretary Arlene feel isolated and see themselves as stick-in-the-muds compared to frequent flyer, on-the-go salesman Jim and wife Harriet.
‘It ought to make us feel ashamed when we talk like we know what we're talking about when we talk about love.’Life has a way of breaking even the strongest of hearts, of dashing families, friendships and lovers against the cold rocks of reality, leaving hopes and dreams to drown beneath the waves of approaching days.Through his short life—the chord of life severed by his own vices—Raymond Carver (May 25, 1938 – August 2, 1988) created a body of work that dives into the wreckage of such lives to bring their stories back to the surface, giving a voice to the red-rimmed eyes of divorce and the hollow cavities of loneliness, addiction and remorse.
Most are written in a clear, unpretentious voice that’s suffused with wisdom and hearty good humour but also a particular kind of pathos that Carver captured – and knew – so well.His characters are ordinary people, often from the Pacific Northwest, struggling to get by and faced for the time of the story with a significant complication.
(Incidentally, both of these stories feature insomniacs.) As someone who watches a lot of plays, I’m sad Carver didn’t write for the theatre.
I didn’t appreciate just how funny Carver could be until I read “What Do You Do In San Francisco?”, a story narrated by a postman who tells us about a “beatnik” couple who move into the neighbourhood on his route.
Narrazione e scrittura ridotta all’osso (ma accidenti, no, non minimale), quotidianità che diventa eccezionale, banalità che si trasforma in straordinario, toni e colori neutri ma nitidi e indelebili.Raymond non spinge sul pedale, non accelera, non calca la mano: immortala scene di vita ordinaria in istanti di luce senza scampo.Come nei quadri di Edward Hopper.Tom Waits e Lily Tomlin protagonisti dell’episodio “Loro non sono mica tuo marito”.Alla fine del racconto intitolato Cattedrale l’io narrante non riesce a descrivere una cattedrale al suo amico cieco.
Robert lo fa: chiude gli occhi e disegna come non ha mai fatto in vita sua.
Stanno parlando di qualcosa, senza fervore con calma privi di particolare trasporto o enfasi: forse la spesa da fare o i figli piccoli, magari il film da decidere; lui dice qualcosa brevemente, dal labiale non posso capire, stanno zitti qualche secondo, poi lei sposta lo sguardo prima rivolto verso il finestrino di una ventina di gradi verso il marito gli risponde o comunque dice a sua volta qualcosa, poi ancora silenzio.La freccia di svolta a sinistra diventa verde, inserisco la marcia e le strade che si sono sfiorate per lo spazio di un semaforo si dividono per sempre, senza epilogo, non saprò mai più nulla di loro.
5 starsIn keeping with my “study” of the short story, I figured it was about time I picked up Raymond Carver.
The final story, called Errand, unpublished at the time of Carver’s untimely death, begins with the single word-sentence “Chekhov”; Carver is often compared to Chekhov, who also died at a young age.
Sure, he uses simple language, in short sentences; but when required, he gives plenty of time and space to establish the raw material he needs to make a character’s growth believable.
Le tre ore senza interruzioni in cui mi spazzolai da cima a fondo “Di cosa parliamo quando parliamo d’amore” rimarranno una delle mie esperienze più significative di lettore, le paragonai ad una donna incontrata in vacanza.
Se ci ripenso, tutte le nostre decisioni più importanti sono state prese bevendo.14 Un'altra cosa> fallimentare15 Piccole cose> fallimentare e nocivo per chi sicuramente non ha colpa alcuna16 Perché non ballate?> cinematograficohttp://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fP0Jpm...17 Un discorso serio> il recipiente che contiene ciò che è rimasto della coppia consumatasi con gli anni18 Di cosa parliamo quando parliamo d'amore> gin-epraioOgnuno di noi parla di una cosa diversa quando parla d'amore.
Murakami on Carver I've never read so many stories about divorcees, unhappy marriages or relationships, dysfunctional families and alcoholics. Carver's writing was incredibly real, and this collection will definitely stay in my memory - I'll be picking this up again down the track, and maybe I will connect with it on a deeper level as I catch up to the ages of the characters, whom are generally older than 30.I'd been interested in reading Carver since Haruki Murakami had consistently praised hi
For such trivial matters to settle down and a proper assessment of Carver's writing to be reached, I think some more time is needed, but in any case, I believe a fair number of the 70-something short stories Carver left will be passed onto future generations as classics.
For example, with such a simple sentence as "The telephone rang while he was running the vacuum cleaner.", just plonking it at the start of a story brings a mysteriously strong presence with it.I still love translating Fitzgerald and Capote, but personally I don't really feel that I'd like to write such elegant prose.
I'm Callin' From Where? "And everything you love starts to disappear,The devil takes your hand and says no fear,'Have another shot, just one more beer.'Yeah I've been there,That's why I'm here."Kenny Chesney, That's Why I'm Here, 1997The Hoff, HammeredUpon starting my own literary renaissance, as part of a mid-life identity crisis, about 9 years ago, I hadn't heard of Raymond Carver. On the New Yorker's monthly fiction podcast, I heard a reading of Carver's short story, "Chef's House." I was mo
It's the perfect illustration of why one should reserve judgment on others, be more tolerant, and one could well be changed in the most dramatic, cathartic ways--by those our prejudice tells us seem least likely capable of doing so.This is the last collection of short stories by Carver, who died from lung cancer in 1988 at the age of 50.The stories primarily revolve around 2 related traumas: a collapsed or collapsing marriage or long-term relationship and alcoholism.

Inizio a guardare America Oggi e dopo pochi minuti sono un po’ confusa – so di non aver mai visto il film, ma lo conosco - mi informo e realizzo che è basato sui racconti di Raymond Carver.
Dopo essermi detta: quanto ignori, ragazza mia, me ne sono fatta una ragione e ho voluto ben predispormi alla visione, nella volontà di rettificare la mia opinione su Carver che, come ho scritto precedentemente ma qui sotto – non aveva fatto suonare le mie corde.Purtroppo devo dire che non sono riuscita a guardarlo – ho preferito continuare nella lettura di Furore –.
Miles Davis once said, when asked why he played such minimalist, modal melodies when his contemporaries were going for the more fevered, manic sound of be-bop, "I try to only play the notes that matter."That's Raymond Carver.
Sparse, deceptively simple, and capable of tearing your soul out by hitting the right notes, consistently, and with purity.Some of these stories sometimes didn't even strike me as I read them.
Other times, I'd read a line, and feel ashamed for my abuse of adjectives and hyperbole as a writer, right then and there.
Carver cuts through it all, and delivers the literary version of "Kind of Blue" in the process.
It's been an absolute pleasure over the past two months to read through this life-spanning collection of Raymond Carver short stories.
That one story does not feel out of sync with the other is a testament to the humanistic, almost-universal nature of Carver's writing.
Of course, it does help that just about every character would be more than happy to have that discussion over a few drinks.I've been reading a lot of short story collections this year and reading Carver has been a great contrast to some of the other authors I've read.
Non capisco perché alcuni miei amici, pur apprezzandoti, ritengano che tu sia deprimente.
Io trovo forza nelle tue storie, anche disperazione, ma nessuno dei tuoi personaggi si compiange e non fa nulla, anzi.
C'è un' accecante passione verso la vita, il fare, il ripromettersi che la prossima volta non commetteranno lo stesso errore, anche se sbagliano ancora e ancora.
L'idea del sogno catartico ha una potenza unica e il finale, a cui prepara, è tra i più belli che abbia mai letto, l'ho fatto mio Ray. Credimi.
Lo traduco nel presente e mi dico: "Non penso che me ne andrò da qui.
A collection of short stories from a writer considered by many to be one the master of the modern short story.
Many of the stories have a flavor of the author’s youth (let’s say the 1940’s and 50’s since Carver was born in 1938 and died at age 50) even though they were written in the 1970’s and 1980’s.
The stories have acquired a patina of quaintness from that era: boys on bikes going fishing in the local creek; door-to-door salesmen; everyone smokes; everyone drinks scotch; the mailman knows everyone on his route; people call their neighbor “Mr. Johnson.” But these are stories of modern life, usually with a raw edge: divorce; alcoholism; infidelity; nasty neighbors.
Great stories.
A band I loved in high school -- Peter Parker, of course -- had a song named "Where I'm Calling From," which was based on the title of this book, so I was implored to pick it up.I started read it there and then, and while I think some of the brilliance was hard for my young mind to grasp, there was plenty of it that I could appreciate, despite my naivete.
It all feels very true to life.In that Headley book I read a couple months ago, she made some joke about how a man carrying a Carver book isn't a good sign, and she's probably right.
The stories, by and large, revolve around men while the women are generally secondary characters.
The Stories included here are:Nobody Said AnythingBicycles,Muscles,CigarettesThe Student's WifeThey're not your HusbandWhat do you do in San Fransico?FatWhat's in Alaska?NeighborsPut Yourself in My ShoesCollectorsWhy,Honey?Are these actual Miles?GazeboOne More ThingLittle ThingsWhy Don't you Dance?A Serious TalkWhat We Talk About When We Talk About LoveDistanceThe Third Thing That Killed my Father OffSo Much water so close to HomeThe CalmVitaminsCarefulWhere I'm Calling FromChef's HouseFeverFeathersCathedralA Small,Good ThingBoxesWhoever was using this BedInitmacyMenudoElephantBlackbird PieErrandJust the vastness of this collection makes me want to rate it highly, add to that the fact it has some excellent stories.
Stories that felt like tablets, small doses of medicine called reality.
Reality in all its bitterness, which you carry on your back like a burden you keep on accumulating without being aware of it.
I seem to be one of the few people who managed to read this before seeing the Altman film Short Cuts, which is based on nine of the stories. I also like Short Cuts more than most of my friends. Possibly there's some connection.
Drunks are often good story tellers as Carver shows.
Not likely.I wonder why I would want to read a book like this?
The intricacy and beauty of the snowflake is not easy to capture in the whiteout but I think Raymond Carver might be trying to do that in the midst of his portrayal of so much gloom.
But then I got into the new stories that were at the end of the book.
Both are people I would like to know more about as I try to understand Mr. Carver.
"Da dove sto chiamando" è una raccolta di 37 dei migliori racconti di Carver.
L'America raccontata e descritta da Carver è completamente ddiiversa dalla America che siamo abituati a conoscere.
I racconti di Carver sono vere e proprie pennellate di vita.
I protagonisti dei suoi racconti sono uomini e donne, persone normali, semplici che vivono i problemi di ogni giorno.
Sono racconti che toccano il cuore e sono vicini a ognuno di noi.Lo stile di Carver è asciutto, senza fronzoli, semplice proprio come i suoi personaggi, esseri con i loro difetti e pregi che li rendono molto simili e uguali a noi.

This was a casual re-read—I fell out of a Carver mood mid-book so I'm out. I stand by what I said last time below anyway :)Some excellent, some great, too many overall- dampens the effect of each.The stories from Cathedral and especially Elephant are his best :)
4.5 i enjoyed most of the stories. two in particular that i really enjoyed were elephant (best ending) and a small good thing (all around great. tearjerker) read it. highly recommend. this review would be much better buttttt i lost my notes.
Elefante, ovvero l'importanza di esserci per gli altri Carver amava la filosofia della libertà di Jaspers e forse mai, come in questo racconto, è riuscito a dimostrare quanto sia catartico scoprire chi si è nel mondo. In questa puntata di 42 si parla del nostro ruolo nelle relazioni, di scelte e, ovviamente, di filosofia della libertà dalla musica degli Smiths.https://soundcloud.com/quarantadue-la...
Come entrare in un quadro di Hopper. Ogni racconto è un quadro.
Especially in his early work, which is why I'm so stingy with the stars when it comes to rating "Where I'm Calling From." The volume is more of an anthology of Carver's career than a greatest hits collection.
This was the last place I had in which I could spell poorly without being reminded of it.) But then, a little less than halfway through the collection and, effectively, Carver's career, we start hitting disturbingly brilliant little nuggets like "Why Don't You Dance?" and "So Much Water So Close to Home." Finally, down the home stretch, are the real classics, finishing off with "Vitamins" (my all-time favorite Carver story), "Where I'm Calling From", "Fever," "Feathers," "Cathedral," and "A Small, Good Thing." I once read, and liked, that pitchers lose their arms and construction workers lose their backs, but writers just get better as they get older.
Why should a collection of short stories published in 1983 be included in Bloom's Western Canon, published in 1994?
If the definition of the Western Canon is said to include those works which have most influenced Western culture, then surely this collection would not have had time to do so.
Instead, I think it is a collection which reflects a small segment of that culture.At first I read several stories in one sitting.
With the exception of the final two stories, these are working class people.
These people have marital difficulties and financial difficulties.I read something of the author's life.
http://tinyurl.com/4a63ubThere's something about reading short stories that really appeals to me.
3) Only the best can do them right.I'd never read a Carver story, but I have seen Short Cuts (based on Carver stories).
A couple of those are in this collection, notably "A Good Small Thing" (which you'll remember as the Lyle Lovett piece)-- breath-taking in its depth and breadth of emotion.
Most of Carver's stories are about drinking and ex-wives, but they are not repetitive.
It makes you wonder about a lot of things.
Too much at one time and their tone becomes a dirge, and some stories are so Carveresque that they read like parodies of themselves (i.e.
I've already read all of these stories before, but I've just re-read some recently and will probably pick through all of them again over the next few weeks.I didn't like them that much the first time I read them, but I think "Fat" and "Neighbors" may be my new favorites.
Of course "Cathedral" is my all time favorite.
If he never published anything else in his life I think we'd probably still know him from this story.
It's because of this article from the New Yorker: http://www.newyorker.com/reporting/20...and the version of that story that's also included that is supposedly Carver's preferred draft.
The relationship between him and his editor is awfully unsettling to me, and I'd like to decide which version of the story I actually prefer.
I just finished up the longer one from the magazine, and even though I haven't read it in so many years, I already think I prefer the version that was so worked over by the editor.He edited out 40% of the story.
Here's a link to the edits:http://www.newyorker.com/online/2007/...
However at the beginning of Carver's collection of short stories I was interested in their variety.
By time I had read half of the book, I had realized that this variety was actually just a collection of various ways people are depressed and hate their lives.
The whole collection to me was just disturbing, depressing, or pointless.
I do not doubt the talent of Carver, his writing style is impressive, but when it comes down to it, I want to read something I will enjoy; and that was not this book.
Reading Raymond Carver is akin to listening to a friend telling story of past experience on a warm sunny afternoon with the joy and sadness of any good tale. It is like eavesdropping on someones inner feelings or spying on someones personal life, but always a good read and a pleasure to read.
For example, look at Alice Munro, Carver Canadian and in a dress (the Kids in the Hall version of Raymond Carver): at age 50, she still had nine short story collections to go until her retirement, with her masterpiece Hateship, Frienship, Courtship, Loveship, Marriage (a distorted, but pleasing, echo of WWTAWWTAL right there in the title) still 20 years in the future.
But, also, to forgive Lish, Carver was going through that long beginner's spell of writing away the demons ("Bicycles, Muscles, Cigarettes", "What's In Alaska?", "Neighbors", "Are These Actual Miles?") so that his angels could shine ("Where I'm Calling From", "A Small, Good Thing", "Feathers", "Cathedral").
I first read Raymond Carver in 1993, and enjoyed the few pieces I read.
I never forgot his name, and in 2005 purchased this book, a collection of his best work.
I found myself smiling, gritting my teeth and even "guffawing" aloud while I read stories like "What We Talk About When we Talk About Love", "So Much Water So Close to Home", "The Third Thing That Killed My Father Off" & "Cathedral".
The ideas Carver had so brilliantly established in Part 2 were now wearing thin.In conclusion, you may need to see a shrink after you've read these stories and realize how shitty life can be, but you'll enjoy the ride to the couch nonetheles.
I can't read them all at once; it's a big book with a lot of stories, and most of them are about drinking and leaving and love, which sounds depressing but isn't.
Ray Carver's level, masculine style reminds me of Hemingway's delivery, but Carver doesn't get in the way like Hemingway did.
Even when he writes a beautiful line that approaches sentimentality, he stays out of the way and the line stays strong and clear and clean of ego.
It makes me want to read and write more short stories, and also to drink gin and tonics with another couple at a kitchen table while the sun goes down, and I don't even like gin.
If you find yourself relating to Raymond Carver's stories, you probably belong in therapy and/or rehab.
The catch: he casts such a wide net in his every-dysfunctional-man tales, that most people could relate to at least one of them.
At his best, whether he's writing about alcoholism or crumbling marriages or irreconcilable loneliness or bad parenting or the violence and selfishness within us, Carver delivers like a punch to the gut.
I don't know why I reread him so often-the experience is akin to holding up a magic mirror exposing the ugliness in oneself and everyone.
I wanted to reread Carver's short stories after having read Will You Please Be Quiet, Please?, What We Talk About When We Talk About Love, Cathedral, Fires and Elephant in the last couple of years.
So I decided to get a copy of Where I'm Calling From, a rather large best-of-collection put together shortly before his death in 1988, with 37 of the best stories he ever wrote.
I'd say that the only flaw is that the beautiful and moving title story of his first book, 'Will You Please Be Quiet, Please?', is missing here.
Carver, he made it look so simple.
Retrato de la América real a modo de patchwork hilvanado con retazos de vidas ordinarias, aparentemente carentes de interés que, sin embargo, devienen universales por su cercanía y cotidianidad.Sobre el estilo del autor, me gusta cómo lo resume él mismo aquí al hablar del odio que siente hacia lo que denomina “trucos” a la hora de leer y escribir: http://literaryjukebox.brainpickings.....Recomendable la adaptación cinematográfica de Robert Altman, Vidas cruzadas (1993).*no he leído el libro que se indica sino una antología de relatos que encontré por la red.
Confortevole.
There were four short story collections published before Carver died (What We Talk About When We Talk About Love, Cathedral, Will You Please Be Quiet, Please?, and Furious Seasons and Other Stories), and several compilations since he passed, usually with both new and selected stories (like this one), and also a Library of America edition that collects all his shorter fiction.
Lastly, there was also a collection (Short Cuts: Selected Stories), designed as a tie-in edition to the Robert Altman film.
Of these, I've read Cathedral and Short Cuts, plus the new stories collected here.
I bought this to read the seven stories written after the publication of Cathedral. Death was already stalking Carver by the last of them. The style of the last several (4), at least, is strikingly new - including stream of consciousness, and a more objectively historical approach, as in the pognant Errands (about the death of Chekov). It is the last of Carver; and, for that reason alone, it is well worth reading.
Clean lines and inspired short stories from a master of the genre. Many of these pieces have big open spaces in them -- room for the reader to fill in themselves.Carver's personal life is another story. He basically drank himself to death and died young (age 49). So much talent, so much wasted. Hard to admire that.
Some good stuff, but a little hit or miss. Not sure whether I enjoy drunk Carver or sober Carver more.
I'd read Carver before but never in collection; the experience is different.
His world, painted scene by scene and life by life, reveals itself too deep to escape.
His sparse and rhythmic style takes the form of the world around me, it becomes a lens extending beyond the page into the hours of my waking life, hours that at any moment may slip into oblique tragedy.
Carver's greatest gift is to capture the moments when lives change (often for the worst) and the rhythm of his stories in sequence has taught me to better see those moments myself.
Recommended reading, naturally.

