https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/17568373-a-sound-of-thunder
Although his research took place in the 50s, his description of the idea took place in the later 60s.Ray Bradbury’s short story A Sound of Thunder, first published in Collier's magazine in the June 28, 1952 issue and Playboy in June 1956 deals with, and actually includes, a butterfly and most definitely explains the idea in a fantastic way better adapted to lay explanation than the good physics professor Lorenz.Time Safari Inc., for a sizeable fee, will take a client back in time, WAY back, so that they can hunt a Tyrannosaurus Rex. But overly conscious of any possible effect on future time (the butterfly effect) great measures are taken to ensure that as little impact on time is allowed.
Lush DescriptionsBradbury loves waxing lyrical about fire (see Fahrenheit 451, which I reviewed HERE)“There was a sound like a gigantic bonfire burning all of Time, all the years and all the parchment calendars, all the hours piled high and set aflame… Out of chars and ashes, out of dust and coals, like golden salamanders, the old years, the green years, might leap; roses sweeten the air, white hair turn Irish-black, wrinkles vanish; all, everything fly back to seed, flee death, rush down to their beginnings, suns rise in western skies and set in glorious east.
”“Its armored flesh glittered like a thousand green coins.
Review first posted at www.fantasyliterature.com:In the year 2055 (about 100 years in the future when Ray Bradbury wrote this classic science fiction short story), one of the uses of time travel is for big game “safari” hunting: hunters pay a huge fee to take a guided safari trip to the far-distant past and bag a Tyrannosaurus Rex or other dinosaur.
In order to avoid any chance of changing the past and affecting the future, the hunting party is strictly enjoined to stay on a metal pathway floating six inches above the earth, and to shoot only dinosaurs that were a minute or two away from death from other causes.
Butterfly Effect, Chaos Theory, time paradoxes, all are contained in this brilliant short story by Ray Bradbury. It's about time travel and it's possible consequences on the future, and as usual Bradbury's messages are not delivered with subtlety; they are delivered with force and they are delivered loudly, and they roll around in your consciousness like "a sound of thunder".
Wow! Another brilliant story by Ray Bradbury! Although it's a really short one, you will get the essence of a lot of things like safari, time travel,  the butterfly effect  (literally and I loved this part the most!) etc. I can see that the story was first published in 1951 and it talks about 2055! Isn't that interesting? Bradbury was really ahead of his times I must say! :D
It wasn't a good story or story line, and it had a lot of unnecessary (long) lists of cause and effect that were unneeded for the plot line in the first place. Plus the ending is awful! It doesn't wrap anything up, and just abruptly ends the story!
Why are you reading reviews right now?
You could probably read the whole story in the time you're spending reading reviews.
Click here for a free copy!!!!You won't be disappointed.Hopefully you listened to me and left, but obviously, if you're reading this, you didn't.
Here's a second chance.Seriously?
You didn't click the link?
I'll cut to the real review now.This was a grate boook tht was funn to read.
Itta had eferythinc that yu could want.
It waz grate.You're probably thinking that I can't write a review.
I just want you to click the link.
You have one more chance.Click the link.
یه داستان کوتاه معروف از ری بردبری. ایده "اثر پروانه ای" در حقیقت اولین بار توی این داستان کوتاه شکل گرفته.ممکنه الان که بخونیدش براتون خیلی تازگی نداشته باشه، ولی خب زمانی که داستان نوشته شده، این ایده تقریبا ناب بوده.از اینجا میتونید بخونید داستان رو:http://www.fantasy.ir/news/story/%D8%...
Somebody whose past is your future, and who has experienced things you have no idea will even happen, and been shaped by events that haven't even come to pass.There are dozens of paradoxes concerning time travel, but there's one I remember called the Grandfather Paradox that goes something like: If you travel back in time and kill your grandparents before they give birth to your parents, and you cease to exist, does that mean that you never go back in time to kill your grandparents in the first place?
So stop reading and go out there and create a version of time where you read that short story instead of this review, and maybe change the future irreparably in the process.
What would happen if you make the tiniest of errors? Bradbury makes a great explanation of the chaos theory. Contrary to popular belief, he did not invent the concept of the butterfly effect.
At first I was not to crazy about reading this book simply because what we read in school is always is boring for me.
I was kind of surprised that we actually read a book that was short because most of the time we read books that are kind of long.
I was really surprised that it was easy to understand better than I thought it would be.
I would maybe read this book again maybe once or twice.
I would recommend this book to anyone that is looking for a short book to read.
Everyone should read this classic Bradbury short story. Why? So you know the origin of the term "The Butterfly Effect," of course. Bradbury is amazing. Even if sci-fi isn't your normal fare, you can give up 15 minutes of your life to read this classic tale.
The impact of our actions...
Possibly the most anthologised science fiction story of all time, this 1952 tale has dinosaurs and the problems of time travel so what's not to love. In fact, its interest lies in its early exposure of the public of time travel paradox and the butterfly effect (which Bradbury uses here but did not invent).Like most science fiction, it does not last well in terms of the detail required to maintain an illusion of credibility and the writing is actually not the best we have seen from Bradbury but it gets its ideas across simply and entertainingly.
Relato, en mi opinión, demasiado corto para la trama que tiene. Creo que con unas cuantas páginas más, con un poco más de desarrollo sobre el cambio, habría sido redondo. Pese a todo, magistralmente descrita la escena de caza.
I think it makes you reflect on your own importance and how the future can be more dependent on you than the present.
Even though it’s set in 2055, since his story was published in 1952 was he echoing sentiments from the Eisenhower election, or was he just commenting on politics in general?“Some dinosaurs have two brains, one in the head, another far down the spinal column.
Which prompted Smithsonian to publish a great article with the tagline: “contrary to popular belief, dinosaurs didn't have butt brains.” Who knew?
I was tutoring my student for the final exam, and she had to revise this short story while I was there, sitting calmly to contain the envy.
One of the most interesting short stories I've ever read.
Short StoryExcellent story - Bradbury is the first person who showed "The Butterfly Effect" in this story from the 1950's. Definitely want to read more of this author.
The short story that gave us The Butterfly Effect. (view spoiler)[I wish it really was possible to change the outcome of an election by stepping on a butterfly. (hide spoiler)]
Reseña Se puede encontrar el cuento completo en el siguiente link: http://ciudadseva.com/texto/el-ruido-...Trata de Eckels, un hombre al que le gusta cazar, y que se encuentra con una empresa que vende safaris en el tiempo; más específicamente, de la época de los dinosaurios.Están en el año 2055, pero los safaris son en el año 65 millones a.C. A Eckels se le advierte que no puede hacer nada que no le indique el guía, ya que está todo sumamente estudiado: la presa que van a abatir iba a morir de todas formas en un muy corto tiempo.¿Podrá Eckels abatir al Tyrannosaurus Rex?Crítica Este relato lo leí por primera vez cuando iba al colegio.
I don't know why, but I've been thinking about this short story a lot lately. I read it 5 or 6 years ago, and it still influences the way I think. If that's not a sign of an amazing piece of writing, I don't know what is.
Review pending
Bradbury's works are simply amazing.I have always loved the idea of the Butterfly Effect and how every little action is important.Highly recommended.
Most of it was really unnecessary, and *spoiler alert*the main character DIES in the end.
So much fun! Incorporating into my class literacy block.
A short story about time travel, the condition of nature and the butterfly effect.
This is an excellent and thoroughly engaging short story exploring the concepts of 'The Butterfly Effect' and 'Time Paradox'. Thrill seekers are sent back in time to experience the ultimate rush; hunting dinosaurs - but are warned extensively about the dangers of altering the past.Ray Bradbury really was a pioneer of science fiction, and I love how his tales are so readable and compelling, and they translate incredibly well to modern times.
https://lolantaczyta.wordpress.com/20...
Ahh, the "Butterfly Effect". A very clever short story
