https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/19030845-batman
Solid batman outing. Old school artwork but great story from Miller. Seems to have aslightly different style to the more recent novels.
I've read this countless times in the trade paperback that but this is the first time I've read it as an individual comic book, and on digital.
This is the first part of Frank Miller's seminal miniseries on Batman.
He aged Bruce Wayne to the edge of crankiness, removing it as far from the smiling corporate pitchman he had become and returning him to his roots as a dark knight.I love reading it on digital, a new experience to say the least.
This is one of the two best Batman stories ever.
The other one is also written by Miller.
A must read for any fan of the comic book medium.
Old Bats still can kick some ass. It was awesome!
Wow. That was much deeper than I was expecting. "I see a reflection." It's interesting that Batman's villains are almost always similar to himself. It's also interesting to see how much this hurts him. I wonder if that's why he's so reluctant to kill...? He thinks that saving them can save his own soul? Hm. I feel a blog post coming on. =)
Now, it's a 1.I first read it as the original series of prestige-format comic books, and thought it was a brilliant satire commenting on society in the late 1980s.What has changed is my understanding of Frank Miller's intent.
In blog posts (now deleted) and interviews 20+ years after first publication, Miller revealed himself to be a bigoted neo-fascist.This made one thing clear: The world and attitudes he depicts in the Dark Knight Returns are not a satire or a cautionary tale at all.
And that changes The Dark Knight from a being a brilliant work of art into being a puerile but terrifying adolescent male power fantasy.No thanks.
I just recently purchased the hardcover collectors edition of The Dark Knight Returns which collects each issue as a separate hardcover book all in a really nice box set.
The first issue of the Dark Knight Returns is a personal story about an aging Bruce Wayne and him trying to move on from being Batman after retiring ten years earlier due to the death of Jason Todd.
The real reason The Dark Knight Returns remains such a classic though is because of the writing.
Frank Miller has very organic and realistic dialogue, and some of the real highlights are in this first issue with Bruce Wayne’s monologues.
The comic picks up with the mutants causing more and more trouble in Gotham, Batman has been in retirement for a decade but feels he must put on his cape and save Gotham from itself.
Throw in the fact that Harvey Dent is let out (they fixed his face, no more two sided evil nature!) and there are rumors that the Joker is sane enough to do interviews on television, and that a young girl has started tagging along as Robin and you've got one hell of a great graphic novel.
Batman comes back after 10 years to fight a gang that calls itself The Mutants. That might be a good way to describe the start of this quadrology. But I think it'd be more honest to say that he came back because he needed to. Batman came back because the society forgot and surrendered to its demise, and he needed to remind them one more time.
Really cool but the thing about buying comics in series is that they aren't satisfying until you've read the whole story arc........
I didn't know that the position and dialogue of the characters mattered so much– I'm used to funny comics, so I didn't consider the careful design of the story through the panels in Dark Knight Returns.
I particularly thought the speech choices for Clark Kent and Commissioner Gordon said a lot about their characters in a way that was to the point and almost better than reading a book or watching a movie.
GIVE ME THIS!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
not many words required: Wauw, Miller brings it out good!I'm a fan, and I'm on to the next one!!
Late to the party, but the party is still going....I can see the inspiration behind The Dark Knight movie series here, but there is also so much more. Wry, witty social commentary. A gritty lens worth descending into. And like all good books/graphic novels/etc. perhaps you will emerge with a new perspective. Cutting edge at its time, and still commenting on society today.
Why Graphic Novels are Valid Literature.
“So, like, you’re reading comic books now?”I can feel the disgust, the OMG really, the assumption that this genre is childish.
I held the same attitude for years before, for whatever the reason, I opened up and tried it.Graphic novels are interesting because they are more collaborative than most forms of literature.
What’s the human experience like - the search for meaning and love - during times of destruction and nihilism?
If they can be explored through literature, whether paragraph format or graphic novel, I’m all in.As Dylan would say, let the Chinese build your phones.
It's an unsettling feeling when you read something revered as a classic and just don't connect with it. You wonder if you just haven't understood it properly. You doubt your self. Then I realised nah...it's just not written that well. The general story idea is very good, but it's written in a snapshot way that isn't just a function of the medium. Feels like the draft storyboard version, rather than the finished whole. I read Batman Year One straight afterward and that was significantly better, with a clean storytelling rhythm.
Set in the not so far off future, Batman having been retired for some years, certain circumstances arise in which Bruce Wayne feels the need for the Dark Knight to rise again. Absolutely beautiful artwork from page to page and Miller (as per usual)shows his peers a thing or two about storytelling and impact. The scenes with the Joker show him at his murderous best and THAT iconic moment where Batman finally snaps (no pun intended) will be forever etched into my mind. Take a bow, mssrs.
Didn't like the overuse of news station comic panels . Seems like a rather lazy way of providing exposition . Overall I understand the significance of this graphic novel but I don't not feel like it stands the test of time . Millers use of dialogue can occasionally be hard to follow and the pacing just seem awkward to me personally .
I actually read this pretty close to when it first came out, when I was working far too close to Forbidden Planet and someone recommended it to me.
It was a great story, but the shock of a "dark" batman was nonexistent for me, since I grew up with Keaton and Conroy, who are about as dark as they get.
The art is gritty and chunky, and it makes Batman and Superman feel really feel god-like.
The novel also does a great job of cutting to people on the street, newscasters, politicians, etc, to give the reader a good feel for the crumbling city.My only beef comes from this boneheaded idea that Batman can compete against Superman.
If Superman really wanted to kill Batman, it would be over in a nanosecond.
When Zack Snyder called Ben Affleck to play Batman, even Affleck was like, "No way. I can't be Batman," but Snyder explained that he would play a messed-up Batman, one who is rugged and not afraid to kill - the same one we saw Affleck displayed in Batman v. Superman, and I believe that Batfleck did an amazing job! This is the exact Batman Snyder was referring to. Frank Miller's Batman is one to remember!
The story definitely picks up speed and gets really good about half way through. Batman has been away for 10 years but Bruce Wayne couldnt keep his demon down! I am not used to seeing Batman with a gun but that has a twist I wont reveal. It was also good to see Harvey Two Face and it was interesting to see Batman's inner feelings toward his nemesis. As for the art, there were a couple of panels with some noticeable scale problems.
It continues to amaze me as to how you have this incredible story written by Frank Miller and yet, you get movies such as Batman v Superman where they try to mesh multiple stories together. The Dark Knight Returns is a phenomenal story of a hero who's real identity lies in the costume he wears, an identity he cannot escape.
Frank Miller's retelling of the Batman origin that rebooted the character and paved the way for many of the movies currently rolling out from DC. The art was trend setting as well building off Miller's success with Ronin.
A deeper and darker knight returns"You cannot escape me..."Faces a new enemy gang but not just them, even the past still haunts Bruce Wayne/Batman. Hanging the cape and gloves wasn't enough, it stills call him, especially that Gotham is falling apart.
I first read this as it was published in the '80s and loved it. Recently bought the combined graphic novel and read it again. While it's still good, it doesn't have the same power as when I first read it, I think because it's so much of a satire of the '80s that hasn't aged well.
The best of the best. Arguable the best Batman story ever written, this Frank Miller masterpiece has everything that a Batman fan can ask for in a Batman novel. just pick it up, already!!
A well written book. Enjoyed reading it.
A well written book. Enjoyed reading it.
A well written book. Enjoyed reading it.
Awesome classic Batman
