https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/338598.Tarzan_the_Magnificent
I rather liked City of Gold and was glad to see him return there, though not enough time was spent among the Elephant-Men.Tarzan books tend to be racist.
And one of the other characters warns him that doing so will subject the both of them to a living hell due to the racist social structure of “the great democracy of the U.S.A.”I wonder if Burroughs was self aware enough to recognize his own racism as he bemoaned the horrors of racisms.Quotes:“Why only last night we were planning on the future, after we got married.”Van Eyk shook his head.
While entertaining in parts, this is far from being one of ERB's best works. The plot went around and around in circles, and there was a lot of repeated phrases and events. Descriptions of long lost civilisations and tribes are well done, so there is no failure of imagination. It is a product of its times, and some readers may find some of the characters racist remarks hard to stomach, although it is plain they reflect the time of writing. Ditto with the repeated slaying of lions.
There’s also a giant diamond and emerald involved.Even though it sounds corny and the plot is basically a repeat of others before it’s actually a pretty good story.
I like that it leads us back to the cities of Gold and Ivory from a previous book, reusing a location instead of adding one.Footnote: 1) On one hand Woora says he’s going to get revenge on Tarzan for killing his pet, while in the very next sentence he says he’s not a vindictive man.
This was not one of my favorites but at least in this one Tarzan finally remembers he is married and goes home for a bit.
One of the low points of the Tarzan series.
The book is made up of two magazine stories combined here into one, neither is much good.
The first part is something of a Rider Haggard rip off and the set up is fairly good.
The device of a magical diamond and emerald that grants their possessors telepathic powers should have easily been used to far greater effect than it is here.
The second part rather surprisingly revisits the lost twin cities of Cathne and Athene from Tarzan and the city of gold not that this adds much of interest.
I have read all 24 of the Tarzan books. Read dates are from the mid 1970s through 1982. I thoroughly enjoyed all of the Tarzan books. They made a great escape from high school and college. I still have all 24 books and they are at the top of my book shelf. I thought it was pretty neat to find the actual covers listed on Goodreads and there are no barcodes on the books, plus the cover price ranged from $1.50-1.95 for each book.
What a silly little book. I haven't read it for almost 31 years, and I don't remember if I liked it back then. But I sure don't like it now. The whole idea of Tarzan himself is ridiculous and requires total suspension of disbelief, but this goes above and beyond. I can't imagine how the whole Tarzan series became so popular in the early half of the 20th century, but somehow it did. I suppose it's no different than the fantasy and sci-fi books of today though.
Really two novels strung together and far from Burroughs best. One of the issues with this book is the constant use of classic Tarzan scenes over and over. How many lions can you kill in on novel? This book, a product of its time, is probably the most raciest of the Tarzan series I have read today.
Tarzan the Magnificent (Tarzan #21) by Edgar Rice Burroughs (Ballantine Books 1939) (Fiction). Tarzan encounters a race of men with unusually vast mental powers. My rating: 6/10, finished 1973.
Tarzan Saves the day yet again. Can diamonds really hypnotize?
Worthwhile! Great action!
Same same, but entertaining.
Tarzan meets up with old friends, solves problems and always saves the damsel in distress. What a Guy!
Not one of the better Tarzan novels. It meanders quite a bit and it seems like the return to the cities of Athne & Cathne were kind of thrown in.
so good, so much in each book, we meet old friends Tarzan has met along the way and so many names to keep track of, could reread these someday and get even more adventures out of them
Again, ERB is going through the motions a bit with these later Tarzan books, but they are still entertaining.
At least Jane was mentioned, if not by name.
read in summer of 1966
