https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/170618.Daddy_s_Little_Girl

Fantastic read! climatic,suspenseful,very engaging,perseverance in never giving up in what you believe is the truth,just keep fighting for justice...a well written story (paperback!)
Imala sam to zadovoljstvo da je upoznam na sajmu knjiga u Njujorku davne 2002. i da upravo ovu knjige dobijem od nje sos autogram... A onda sam se i uslikala s njom i njenom ćerkom, takođe spisateljicom... :)
Same thing over and over and over again until the last 2 pages in which she turns all of Ellie's bad childhood memories into the past and forgives people she felt hurt her.
Oh and she gets married.
And gets the dream house she always wanted.
And gets the defense attorney to serve prison time.
It felt like MHC was bored of writing this book because she knew it was a piece of regurgitated garbage so she decided to wrap the whole thing up like a procrastinated high school term paper.
It started off pretty flat despite it was opened with the finding of a dead body in a garage.
Ellie was just 8 years old when she found her sister dead.
But, surprisingly enough, she didn't look like an 8 yo girl to me.
The way she handled the situation and how she was treated, it was so hard to believe.
Why she would blame her self so much about her sister's death?
If I were Ellie, I would blame my self too, but not so intense like she did.
That's what an eight years old girl supposed to do, right?
Another great book by The Queen Of Suspense! I've read many books by Mary Higgins Clark and I've never been disappointed. I'm always caught off guard by the twist near the end that I didn't see coming. I Highly recommend this, and all books by The Queen of Suspense!
The rest of the book is basically the war between Rob's antics and Ellie's fact finding, and in the end Andrea's murder plus another one from long ago are all neatly re-solved and tied up with ribbons.
A dash of suspense is overwhelmed by plodding story lines, improbable action, implausible developments, and a leading lady who after all is said and done is not that easy to really care about.
This enthralling story is a first person narrative told by Ellie Cavanaugh, the 30-year-old survivor to a murder that devastated her family when she was only 7.
For 23 years, she had been convinced her sister's murderer was in prison, but now he, and his extremely wealthy family, are fighting to prove her wrong.This story twists as Ellie researches the murder, with several episodes along the way that could have turned out much nastier.
(hide spoiler)]Overall though, my reaction when I finished was to say out loud "Wow!"A masterfully told story from the "Queen of Suspense", which helps to show the ways that murder and violent crime don't affect just the victim.
I have read a few books by Mary Higgins Clark, but this was by far my favorite.
Ellie was just a young girl when her sister was murdered.
On a road filled with danger, Ellie is on the search for more evidence against Rob that will get him sent back to prison.
The dedication that Ellie shows is what really made this book.
So many books like this are so predictable that it takes away the thrill of the story.
This book was not predictable and was a very well written.
The story is interesting from the start yet it is not the fastest moving book I have ever read.
Overall, I really did expect much more action than I was given.The story follows Ellie years after her sister, Andrea, was killed as she deals with the release of the man who killed Andrea.
It wasn’t that the book was bad on that front - it simply wasn’t what I was expecting.
Putting it simply, it was too predictable for me to be able to put this book in the same category as some of my other reads.Having read this book I then went on to read more books by the author.
Livro deveras espectacular! Muito bem escrito, a acção desenrola-se a uma velocidade vertiginosa e as personagens são muito emocionantes.O suspense mantém-se até ao final e, uma vez mais, enganei-me no suspeito... eh eh eh!Mary Higgins Clark é uma autora que nunca se deve deixar de ler.
Ok je iako ima par napornih nebuloznosti.
Her books are very easy to read and play out almost like a movie in my mind.
However, I marked this down by 1/2 star for the ending.
The other thing I didn't like about the book was its multitude of unnecessary characters.
I've shelved this book 'cosy mystery' despite its 'thriller' tag.
There is a touch of romance in the book, and although I quite like how it was handled for 80% of the book, I think I could have had a touch more towards the end, just to flesh it out a bit, so to speak.
Tirar por la borda todas mis magnificas investigaciones y creer que el idiota de Rob Westerfield era inocente.- "casi es la palabra clave - Gracias a todos los cielos que no di mi brazo a torcer tan fácilmente.y todo por un simple par de confusas contradicciones-¡No puedo creer que este muerta!
Todo fríamente calculado - y sobornado - para demostrar una inocencia fingida, gracias a la pista del asesinato de otra chica - digo lamentable - las cosas tomaron su rumbo.< - Mate a golpes a Phil y fue estupendo >La verdad es que me encanto este libro.
Yet another good mystery.
I am not a reader who necessarily expects a book that is unpredictable.
I have enjoyed all of Mary Higgins Clark's works that I have ever read.
This book had enormous meaning other then being a mystery, for Ellie she thought she knew her father and his feelings and after time she found out she was wrong.
They worked out their differences and became a family again.
She was able to obtain a new job, brought the truth out that occurred 23+ years ago, righted a wrong against another one of Rob's victims etc.
Ellie was seven years old when her older sister Andrea was murdered. Now 23 years later her killer is up for parole and Ellie is determined that he stays in jail where he belongs. Rob Westerfield has always insisted that he was innocent of the murder but Ellie is set to prove him wrong. She puts up a website with the evidence that she uncovers which puts her own life in danger.
All around, I enjoyed reading Daddy's Little Girl. I liked the simple way it was written and so it was easy to visualize the events. The only thing I wasn't crazy about was the main character, Ellie. I found her to be obsessive and frankly just plain rude and careless at parts. But other than that, the book itself was quite good.
Wow. Once again, Mary Higgins Clark has drawn my attention to her books and the world she writes about. A very descriptive story, she again proves why she is the "Queen of Suspence".A very thrilling story that keeps you hooked and wanting more. ~Ceci~
Minha opinião aqui:http://anealecorvoliterarios.blogspot...
2.5 stars
Not my usual pick of genre, but it was a fun change of pace. A suspenseful quick read.
'Daddy's Little Girl' by Mary Higgins Clark is a fabulous story filled with mystery and suspense.
I could see that if a child were to read this book they might get quite confused and have trouble following the story and the characters.
This novel is a mystery and thriller with themes of murder, love, family, suffering, tragedy, death and loss.
Mary Higgins Clark wrote this story very well and went into great depth to give the readers a really good idea of the characters and themes.
This way I was truly able to understand and learn all of Ellie's thoughts about her personality, fears and loves.
Read this while in my new book shop, which of course is full of books..Was intrigued with Ellie and her journey to find justice for the brutal murder of her sister. I do love MHC books.
It had a synopsis that sounded interesting: The heroine, Ellie, was only 7 years old when she discovered the dead body of her 15-year-old sister.
2 decades later he was set free, and Ellie, unable to bear this, began writing a book, bent on proving his guilt.
Aka the biggest problem I have with this book.For example, excessive usage of the word Ellie.
Mommy was crying againAnd then later, when the story was told from Ellie's POV, exessive usage of the word "I".
You know those books that you find difficult to read because the writing is so monotonous and grating on the nerves, and the plot not brilliant enough to make up for it?
Throughout the whole novel she believed that Rob was the killer and regardless of any other views or opinions, she just would not budge.
(view spoiler)[ I believe that the impact of Rob being the killer would have been heavier if Ellie had begun to believe and trust in him.
I just felt that she wasn't a very nice person, and because this novel was so plot driven, we never got to see a more relaxed and personal side to Ellie to contradict this view.
2,5 en realidad El secreto de la noche" es una historia sencilla, sin pretensiones, que consigue entretener pero que yo no lo catalogaría como uno de los libros de la "Reina del suspense". Está bien como lectura ligera, pero tampoco se lo recomendaría a todo el mundo, mucho menos a los amantes del suspense.http://bajolapieldeunlector.blogspot....
Her younger sister, only seven years old at the time, Ellie, helped to bring Andrea's killer to justice.
Ellie's heartbreaking testimony put nineteen year old Rob Westerfield behind bars.
After serving jail-time for twenty-two years, Rob Westerfield is now on parole.
On the fight to keep Rob in jail and prevent him from accusing an innocent man of his own crime, Ellie returns to her hometown to write a book to avenge her sister's death.
Now an investigative reporter from the Atlanta newspaper, Ellie relentlessly uncovers more evidence, digging further into the past of Rob Westerfield, putting herself increasingly in danger of an unexpected encounter with the killer himself...
I wanted to like this book, but the ending was too predictable. Overall, the story was lacking in suspense unless you were wondering what the protagonist's elaborate next meal was going to be. Spoiler: she usually went with the soup.
Enjoy the review.This book had sucked me in since the beginning.
The story-line was so approachable, and i couldn't help but to remember every little second of it, and remember it so clearly, that i could relive it whenever i felt like it.It played out so well in my head, i could have sworn it was written for the screen.
I have a perfect vision for every detail, and i hope to see this on the screen someday.
Mary Higgins Clark created the perfect story with Daddy's Little Girl.
I hope you all will enjoy this book as well.
saya sendiri nggak tau kenapa saya cuma ngasih dua bintang, padahal yah, saya cukup menikmati.gini ya, novel ini bercerita soal si kecil Ellie, yang kakaknya mati jadi korban pembunuhan.
pelakunya sih udah ketangkap, si Rob--atau siapa saya agak lupa namanya.
tapi si Rob ini kayak nggak terima, dan balasannya, dia bikin asumsi kalau yang ngelakuin segalanya itu paulie.oke, di sini.
mulai menebak-nebak siapa pelaku yang sebenarnya.mungkin, yang bikin saya nggak suka adalah Ellie yang membalaskan dendamnya berbelas-belas tahun kemudian.
pas mereka udah tuwir-tuwir hahahaha.dan yah, menurut saya pelaku sebenernya emang udah ketebak dari awal.saya nggak mau kasih review banyak-banyak.
