https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/149355.The_Amazing_Mrs_Pollifax
This is another book that should strain the credulity of the reader (or listener) except that in the hands of Ms. Gilman it takes on the character of a comedy/drama/adventure (think I Spy with Robert Culp and Bill Cosby.
How many remember that TV program?)that I would call a page turner...except that I listened to the audio version.
Of course, things don't go as planned...again.
But then what fun would the book have been if things had gone as planned?As I pointed out before...not a mystery fan, but these are good books.
I absolutely loved this book! Both suspenseful and VERY funny -- the author makes the absurd believable. I found myself cheering on Mrs. Pollifax, and laughing out loud many times. There were many twists and turns, great adventure and suspense. And of course, an absolutely loveable main character in Mrs. Pollifax.
A charming little spy thriller.
A retired grandmother from a small town in NJ, Emily Pollifax spends her time between her church’s Garden Club, karate lessons, and an occasional assignment for CIA.
The novel reads more like a spoof than a real thriller.
Occasionally, the author throws around little dollops of wisdom and humor that are as relevant today as they were 40 years ago, at the time of publication.
“Write?” she repeated blankly, and Mrs. Pollifax understood that she had stumbled upon a word utterly foreign to this girl and her generation.
In fact I think she's my soulmate.I've read this whole series before but am now re-reading them.I can never think of how to review the books I love the most.So I will just quote:"As she stood transfixed the last notes of a muezzin's chant reached her ears from below, sounding phantom in the high clear air, and Mrs. Pollifax thought, "I must remember this moment," and then, "I shall have to come back and really see this country." Yet she knew that if she did come back it would be entirely different.
A tongue in cheek James Bond, Mission Impossible spoof.
I remember when these books first came out, they were often in my parents' Reader's Digest Condensed Book collection.
Reading it today I wonder what they could cut out, or needed to, with such a short novel!Gilman's Turkey could be anywhere, really, but then it's just a fish out of water tale of an elderly widow turned courier.
A quick, light bowl of mental popcorn with no "message" beyond "sit back and relax." The ending seemed rather abrupt, the helicopter scene more than a little contrived, but it's not meant to be rrrrealism.
Book 2 (after an excursion through later volumes). Mrs Pollifax is certainly favoured by the gods of happenchance.
Excerpted from a review originally published at The Bookwyrm's Hoard.NOTE: This is a review of the audiobook.I've been a Mrs. Pollifax fan for a long time, so when I saw that our public library had some of Dorothy Gilman's delightful mystery series in audio format, I wanted to give them a try.
Mrs. Pollifax is far more adventurous, and her exploits involve much more travel than Miss Marple usually undertakes.
I enjoyed this reading enough to want to seek out the rest of the series in audiobook format, provided they are performed by the same voice actor.
I knew nothing of Mrs Pollifax until I chanced across a reference to her and determined to learn more.
This is not the first in the series but its the one I have acquired so I think it the best!
Here are some of Mrs Pollifax' thoughts on life...." She thought that just when life appeared to have no discernible pattern there could arrive a co-incidence so startling that one could imagine Forces tugging, arranging, balancing, contriving and contracting all the arrivals and departures of life."And here's some gypsy wisdom from the story.Worldly goods that possess,Own and destroy you.Love must be lie the blowing wind.Capture the wind between wallsAnd it becomes stale.Open tents.Open hearts.Let the winds blow.....
In the first book one of Mrs. Pollifax’s main weapons was her apparent innocent naivety.
The problem with this, is the novelty soon wears off and you begin to want the heroine to be a bit more proactive.
In this book we see a glimpse of her being more forceful, but having seen this, it then becomes annoying when for the rest of the book her only defence seems to be waiting and hoping for the best.
Mrs. Pollifax goes on another courier mission for the C.I.A.
Along the way, she meets an Englishman without courage, a Turkish thief whose signature phrase is "wotthehell," and a daring, older female spy that finally provides her someone to look up to.Along the way, Gillman is careful to paint not a touristy, typical picture of Turkey but to have her character pause and realize that she's been picturing the place all wrong for many years.
It's nearly as much fun to watch Mrs. Pollifax trying to be a spy as it is watching her try to get over her years of passive Americanism.
I am a fan of that elderly widow turned CIA spy, Mrs. Pollifax.
We recently took a road trip and listened to this book on CD.
The reader is Barbara Rosenblat and she makes this book so much fun to listen to.
This one is the 2nd book in the series so you are still getting introduced to and suprised by Mrs. Pollifax's ingenuity.
It is slightly predictable but so much fun you hardly notice.
If you are OK with mysteries that are dated (this is clearly the 1970's) and before internet and cell phones, you have got to pick up a Mrs. Pollifax adventure.
Oh my gosh I adored this. I'm heading on to the third volume. Light reading but not fluff: Mrs. Pollifax gets into some serious situations. I love that these cold war era books feature authentic settings and situations that at least approximate difficulties particular to cold war intrigue. And yet, Mrs. Pollifax makes it through - but without any sappy, cheap, easy solutions. I love that about these books. There might be a deus ex machina or two, but it doesn't feel unearned and doesn't feel as if the author's taken the quickest route to the resolution. Great stuff.
This is a great cozy mystery...love Mrs. Pollifax. She's a role model for kicking it at any age. Dorothy Gilman really was one of the first to get that 60-something is the new 40, or whatever the new math says about the graying of the western world! Her writing style is light and easy in this breezy mystery. It's full of warmth and wit. Mrs. Pollifax is amazing!
Emily Pollifax gets a Turkish adventure...
'twas a bit confusing when gilman referred to a helicopter as plane, but, wotthehell!it seems this is the volume that i missed way back when i was reading reader's digest condensed booksthe karate part was introduced here (view spoiler)[though it did not play a part in the espionage act yet;it's exciting to see who's gonna get the first dose (hide spoiler)]
Here, she is called in at a moment's notice to go to Turkey to pass documents on to a purported defecting eastern-block agent, a woman also of a certain age.
Within a day, that drop has gone badly, Mrs. Pollifax has both found an ally and lost one, and the plan to help the defecting agent is seriously compromised.
She is a good sweet woman, easy to like and root for, who deals with problems with enjoyable creativity and aplomb.
I'll be back for Mrs. Pollifax' next foray.
Every time I indulge in a Dorothy Gilman book, it is apparent she is a legend.
As brisk and consuming as her pace continues to be, “The Amazing Mrs. Pollifax” didn’t quite hit five stars because the primary setting and characters were disconnected from me, through obscurity.Perhaps because Emily didn’t use her hotel, I didn’t establish any roots.
I never felt at home or comfortable and didn’t like the characters who accompanied Emily this time, except for Magda.
All of her allies were collected hastily; her airplane seatmate never appearing again.
Imagine him wondering which unknown personages in Turkey were throwing her a party!
Mrs Pollifax (Emily), a widow with grandchildren, was living a safe but boring life in New Brunswick, New Jersey.
Until the CIA asked her to become a courier, that is.
But a phone call from her CIA contact, Mr Carstairs, quickly changes her plans.
This is a delightfully imaginative (and highly improbable) cozy series.
Mrs Pollifax is a marvelous main character – steadfast, quick thinking, polite (unless someone needs a karate chop to the throat), and courageous.
Her ability to make friends of total strangers and gather about her a variety of allies makes for a colorful cast of characters and some unexpected turns in the plot.
I’ll definitely keep on with the series.
At any rate, it was an enjoyable read in which every chapter brought the characters into some new and unanticipated peril - reminded me of the show "24" in that way, except not nearly as violent and with a much better ending.
I was delighted with the "reveal" at the end, as well.
I put this book in the category of "pleasant diversion" - it's not going to give me a lot of profound things to think about, but was a well-written and satisfying read.
Another great read- Emily Pollifax has been called in again, for her amateur-ness and willingness to risk life & limb for her country.
This time she's off to Turkey to help a defecting Communist agent (really a U.S. double agent).
Suspense abounds2 problems with this one versus the first- (1) There was almost  too  much against Mrs. Pollifax.
The reader didn't really have any time to come down from the suspense to then gear up again.(2) The ending was wrapped up a bit too fast.
I think another 5ish pages were in order and would have been fine as it wasn't terribly long to begin with.That said, overall another great, quick read and very enjoyable.
This author was new to me. Such a delight. A little old lady joins the CIA and she is charming. Her mission got much more complicated and life threatening. Of course she preserves with help from unlikely allies along the way. The mystery was wonderful as well. Looking forward to many more by this author.
3/12/18 $1.99 for Kindle.
This book is as outlandish and delightful as the hat Mrs. Pollifax wore to church and then on her mission for the CIA.
As I first started the novel, I kept thinking about Walter Mitty, but Mrs. Pollifax is not imagining her adventure and I quickly realized that.
Then I felt like this tale was Indiana Jones written as a novel with an older woman as the protagonist!
Definitely a page turner and it caused me to give up my idea of doing anything but reading until I finished it!
Humor, suspense, and classic mystery all rolled into one package!
I am so happy to have discovered this series. This was my second read from it (and second of the series). As with the first, I really liked Mrs. Pollifax as a protagonist, and in this episode enjoyed seeing her develop a bit as a character.The supporting cast of characters was interesting and eclectic. I am hoping to see one or two in future novels, but suspect others will be introduced instead.The setting in Turkey gave some beautiful descriptions of the country, which I appreciated.I am looking forward to reading the next book of the series.
Fun adventure with Mrs. Pollifax, little-old-lady-CIA-associate. Written when the Cold War was still hot, the story roams all over Turkey, with agents, double-agents and gypsies. I wish it didn’t have to have references to “karma” and other equally foolish notions, but it’s entertaining nonetheless.
I enjoyed this book as much as its predecessor, but for different reasons. In “the Unexpected Mrs. Pollifax,“ the fun was in watching the titular character cope with the increasingly dangerous situations in which she found herself. In this second novel, there was still some of that, but I found more enjoyment in the memorable characters. I’m sure it won’t be long before I read the third book in this fun, fast-paced, humorous and action-packed series.
Mrs. Pollifax goes off on a real spy jaunt, with a half hour to pack and put her affairs in order, then an assignation where she must carry a book to be identified. Of course things do not go as easily as planned, and a mistake on her part makes everything more difficult. Kindness and surprises of human nature as usual.
Mrs. Pollifax makes me laugh. The woman is irrepressible. This time she's sent to Istanbul to meet an agent and along the way decides to do a favor for a young lady she meets on one of her flights. That turns out to be both entertaining and fortuitous. The roller coaster ride begins within hours and never lets up. Such fun.
Funny and charming, even more fun then the first one. This is NOT the Bourne Identity by any means lol but it’s still clever in its own way and just having the unique perspective of an elderly “spy” allows the whole tone of the book to be so refreshing.
Enjoyed it as much as the first one! Mrs. Pollifax is a marvelous character. Finally, I found a new mystery series to enjoy.
