https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/123170.Big_Red
Haggins owns a large estate, and raises cattle and sheep, and keeps a stable of horses, and dogs, which include Big Red. This is where young Danny, who is seventeen as this story begins, first sees Big Red.
Danny walked forward, and knelt to ruffle the red dog’s ears.”“’Hi boy,’ he said.
Technically, he was our family’s dog, but I was his as far as he was concerned, and while I have loved all the dogs I’ve shared my life with (and some that I haven’t shared my life with) the dog who raised me holds the first piece of my heart I ever gave away.
I thought when I began re-reading this book yesterday that I might change its star rating from 5 to 4.
I had marked it 5 stars when I first joined GR and before I really understood how things worked here.
But I've just finished the book and I'm leaving it with all 5 stars.
Would Danny be able to work with the beautiful dog?
And then there's that bear.....who will win that little contest?This is an outdoor book and should be read sprawled on your belly with the grass tickling your nose and little flying bugs landing on the page every so often, and the sun warming you as you follow Danny and Red through their woods.
Jim Kjelgaard's Irish Setter books are the ultimate boy-and-his-dog adventure stories. Although it has been a very long time since I read them, I do remember that they completely enthralled me at the time, and captured my heart and imagination.
I read Big red because it looked very interesting and I like dogs.
His family has tried to kill this bear for years and he also wants to.
After he told Mr. haggin about the bull he sees his dog named Big Red and he falls in love with this dog.
Big Red is a show dog and was bought for seven thousand dollars.Towards the end off the book Mr. Haggin gives Danny Big Red and then Danny finds a mate for Big Red so he can raise pups and then he can sell them for lots of money.
3.5I needed a story that was easy to read, yet held wonderful characters and a lovely story. This book fit. Dogs, a young man, and mountain forests. There was excitement, amusing moments, and plenty of heart. I had seen the movie, but it wasn't anything like the book. I loved Red, and really liked Danny and his father.My only complaint were the times the whiteout was needed otherwise it would have been a 4 star book.
Jim Kjelgaard really started my obsessive compulsive reading lifestyle. He was really the first author that I can vividly remember, at like 8 years old, going into a bookstore and blurting out to any employee "Do you have any Jim Kjelgaard books, I'll spell it for you..K-J-E-L-G-A-A-R-D" Great dog books too, by the way. Jack London lite.
Danny agrees.But when Old Majesty, the ruthless bear, kills the Pickett’s hounds and injures Danny's father, Ross, Danny knows that the only chance to catch Old Majesty lies with Big Red. But is it worth the chance?Discussion.I’m so pleased to have found Jim Kjelgaard.
It’s such a wonderful experience!As a story, Big Red comes in between the other two stories I’ve read by Kjelgaard.
He respects Mr. Haggins, and acts responsibly with Red. He also has an excellent relationship with his father, Ross – they work together, talk together, eat together, and think together.
I loved this book as a child and reread it many times.
I loved the thrilling adventures from the "smaller" ones like his encounter with the wolverine to the main conflict with the savage bear.
Oooo, I remember being so creeped out by the bear!
Danny sitting in the dark, hearing the bear's claws scraping on the rock and watching Big Red's hackles rise .
brrrrr!
Of course, thanks to this book and all those Drama in Real Life Reader's Digest stories about grizzly bear attacks, I am absolutely terrified of bears!
Not too many bears around here.
I rated this when I first joined Goodreads, but I don't remember why I only gave it three stars. I seems to me that I enjoyed it more than that. I've recently picked up a used copy of the book, so sooner or later I'll get around to rereading it and give it a proper review. I'm really stumped that Kjelgaard seems to be largely out of print--I loved the few of his books I encountered growing up, and can't see why kids today shouldn't enjoy them, too.
“Big Red” was a champion Irish Setter; from the moment Danny saw him, he knew Red would be his dog.
Danny was just a lowly trapper, a boy who knew more about the ways of the woods than fancy kennels and dog shows.
Although he was born over a hundred years ago and many of his books have now gone out of print, a good number are still available in retail shops today.
These animal-focused books were some of my favorites growing up, so do yourself a favor and start searching for some of Mr. Kjelgarrd’s writing yourself!
So, we have a 17-year old hillbilly Danny Pickett, living in a shack with his father, Ross.
One day Danny goes to see Mr. Haggin and is greeted effusively by an Irish Setter, whom Danny calls Red. Red is a show dog, so has a fancy name, but Danny doesn't much cotton to such fanciness.
Danny's father, of course, thinks they should turn Red into a varmint dog, like his blue tick hounds.
So, when I was allowed to get a new dog, a year or so after our sheltie, Jeanne, was run over by a laundry truck, I started calling people advertising Irish Setters.
Haggin, his owner, trusts "Red's" care and training (as a partridge dog) to a young backwoods boy named Danny (at the same time, Mr. Haggin is teaching Danny about 'showing' and breeding fine show dogs).The story revolves around life in the backwoods (traplines, hunting, surviving), training dogs for different specialties (Danny's father Ross raises and trains hounds to hunt 'varmints' -- fishers, rabbits, wildcats, etc.), dog shows, and the love between Red and Danny.The book isn't an easy read.
(I do that a lot at the really good parts...)This is a book definitely worth searching for and sharing with any child or young person who loves dogs (or just a good story.)
Mr. Haggin knows he is losing his best show dog, but he knows down in his heart, it is the right thing to do.
Mr. Haggin loves his show dog, Red, but Danny loves him more more and the dog chooses which guy he likes best.
In the book it also shows that doing the right thing for the dog is best and that a dog’s love is as strong as human’s love.
The book shows two different things, the dog will choose love over anything, and doing the right thing for the dog is the best thing you can do.
I picked this book because I really enjoy dogs and adventure stories.
The book is fairly happy throw out the story in the beginning the book is happy the boy gets a dog and teaches him to hunt but as the book goes on things get sadder pets die and so does live stock.
I enjoyed the family moments and the times that Danny and Red chased the bear around the woods.
But if there are other people who enjoy animal stories of fun and adventure this would be the perfect book for you too read.
Although Danny doesn't own him, it is his job to take care of Red. The book was written by Jim Kjelgaard in 1945, so the reader must picture a time when life was a little simpler.
The relationship with Danny and Red is wonderful, and any boy could only hope to have a dog that loves him as much.
I can remember wishing I had a dog like Big Red. Now I want him all over again.Big Red is a enticing story for all ages, but especially young readers who love the wilderness and all of its dangers.I rated this book an 8½ out of 10.
No wonder its ideas about how a predator fits into an ecosystem are so out of step with modern research.Such problems aside, the book is a good story of a boy and his dog.
They earn their living trapping and hunting then selling pelts.
Some of the facts of trapping are similarly glossed over.Being rural I could relate to much of what was in the book.
It would be a good boy's book.
But urban boys would have trouble as they have no experience to help them understand the setting or the experiences.I did find the book an interesting read and plan to read the sequels.
Fans of boy-and-his-dog hunting stories like "Where the Red Fern Grows" and "Old Yeller" will love this book.
While you can pretty much guess what is going to happen by the end of the book, based on the opening chapters, the journey getting there is full of twists and turns that keep the reader interested and eager to find out exactly how the events will unfold.
My only complaint--and it's a mild one--is the sometimes hokey-sounding dialect the characters use when they speak.
Other than that, this will be one I highly recommend to boys looking for hunting and adventure stories.
This is about a Big Red dog and a boy who really loves this dog and lives in a place I cannot remember the name.
Eventually he gets hired to be a trainer, but the dog's leg is injured and will not be able to show any longer.
There is also a bear named Old Majesty because no dog has been able to run him down.
Big Red is there to challenge him and they defeat him in the night.
I really liked this book because because it shows a lot of old-fashioned adventure.
1945 debut of the Young Adult Big Red series. I remembered reading this book over 50 years ago and rereading it found that it was as engrossing and enjoyable as the first time around. Kjelgaard wrote a number of books featuring an animal, usually a dog. YA - "Big Red" was a champion Irish setter; Danny a young trapper who knew more about the ways of varmints and hounds than of the world of fancy kennels and dog shows. But Red's owner knew a good dog man when he saw one, and entrusted Red to Danny's training.
Wonderful and creative dog story, but Bid Red is also a timeless tale of friendship, hard work and the beauty of natural and rural environments. This book was an excellent journey through time and I highly recommend it.
I started reading these dog books when I was in third grade. There is no substitute for a child's love of their pets and I wanted one more than anything. I loved all of Jim Kjelgaards books and highly encourage anyone to read them.
A wonderful book! Jim Kjelgaard's style of describing and writing about the woods is unparalleled by any other boy's author. I loved this book-should have read it sooner! It was funny, tense, exciting, intriguing, and more.
heart warming dad book
I would suggest this book to hunters.It is about a man and a dog who try to kill a bear who eats there cattle.
It was ok. A little short.
A great Read
Read this when I was a bit younger, and remember quite enjoying it! Books about dogs aren't usually my thing these days; but I have fond memories of reading them in the past! :)
Reading those books taught me how to love the world, because that is the other thing the men loved besides their dogs – they loved their land.These men were trappers, yes, killing hundreds of animals for their fur every year, but they were also mountain men who loved and lived in the woods.
He recently wrote his Green Manifesto, with the objective: To describe the ways that my own life, and the lives of some people I admire, are connected to the natural world, and the benefits that come from that connection, benefits that are not always obvious.And in his manifesto, he celebrates environmental hypocrisy.
This book is one of the classic boy and dog stories.
But the woods are not their test.
I liked the story, because it gives you a taste of what it is like to live in the woods for more than a week.
This is a book that I would read in the winter next to a warm fire.
This book shows how great a dog is, and it shows you real friendship and love.
I will always love this book, and I will probably read this to my children when I grow up.
Together Danny and Red face many dangers in the harsh Wintapi wilderness that they call home."I love finding books in odd places, and finding a new author who's books have been around for quite a while.
"Jim Kjelgaard is an American author of young adult literature.
His books were primarily about dogs and wild animals, and often told from the animal's point of view." He died at the young age of 49, in July of 1959.
He probably would never know that this book 'Big Red' would be made into a movie by Walt Disney in 1962.I glad I found 'Stormy' the first book I read by Jim Kjelgaard.
