https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1924491.Glitter_Baby
It was a re-read and I think I loved it even more this time...
Then Karen and Sharon read it recently and it piqued my interest as their review/updates were intriguing me.
Mmmm, I said to myself, I wonder how I would feel about it now doing another read!Fleur has a fairly fucked up childhood.
OK, her mother thinks she is pushing her child out of love but to me it was selfish and self-serving.I get that some might be put off by the whole "background" story ...
Alexi, Belinda ...
maybe not enough Jake and Fleur.
"What's my tragic flaw?" Fleur asked.Kissy thought for a moment."Shitty parents."
5 STARSOk, so this is one of those books that you have to read…then sit back and think about for a while before you decide how you feel about it.
I kept thinking that this is way too much background information.
And it didn’t really hit me until after I finished the book, that you couldn’t have understood the significance of Fleur Savagar’s life without knowing the circumstances that created her existence.
A sensitive guy with a rough facade.
I’m in LOVE!
And he was the perfect person for someone like Fleur.
This book has NOTHING to do with Wynette, Texas, or any of the characters from that series that I can see.
Giving this one another try!
SEP is one of my favorite authors.
I must have been in a mood!!!
😊😊Nope.
Didn't work the second time either.
No worries.
I still love her.
:)**************************2.5 StarsGosh, I don't know what to say about this one other than as a whole it just didn't work for me.I truly enjoy SEP's writing so I am not sure where this one went wrong for me.
I started skimming which is always dreadful to admit but it happened.
Instead of completely embracing the story, sadly I found myself wishing it was over.Oh well.
You can't win them all!
In November 2015, I ended up DNF'ing around the 25% mark feeling like this book would be a waste of time for me personally.
After some encouragement from readers who sited Glitter Baby as one of their favorites, I picked it back up the following January (starting right where I left off), and coincidentally it was at that point when the story switches to focus on Fleur, the Glitter Baby herself, and I had no further problems feeling invested and engaged.
I now will be in that group of readers who will encourage other DNF'ers to reconsider Glitter Baby.
Nuestra reseña en A la cama con... un libro Un chasco. No hay nada peor que leer llevando expectativas
I’m pretty sure it is the revised book.AUDIOBOOK:The narrator Julia Gibson was excellent, but someone inserted 20 seconds of music periodically during the reading.
This was not-good production.STORY BRIEF:Fleur is the most beautiful woman in the world.
She also must handle and fight through tough obstacles.The first 57 pages of the book are about Belinda, Fleur’s mother, who is not fun to read about.
One of the tragedies in Fleur’s life is having Belinda as a mother.OPINION:After the first 57 pages, I did not want to put the book down.
There's enough to the story to keep you reading, and I think Fleur developed into a strong character, but it wasn't enough for me to like the story overall.Another problem I had was that this book is part of the Wynette, Texas series and yet there's no mention of Wynette or Texas.
Fleur and Jake make cameos in Book 6, Call Me Irresistible, but Glitter Baby (Book 3) doesn't have anything to do with Wynette.
I wonder if the book was meant to be a standalone but then later marketed as part of Wynette because of Call Me Irresistible.I'm glad this wasn't my first or second SEP because it probably would've made me stop reading her books altogether.
Even with the long, drawn out beginnings, I still love SEP's older books to pieces. I hate to admit it, but telling the parent's story really does add a depth to the H/h's tale that is incomparable. I think this may be my favorite of the series so far. I've been listening to it on audio and the narration is fantastic. Multilayered characters, a story spanning decades, and often villains that you can empathize with. Romance that is super spicy but truly realistic, even though it's set in a world of glitz and glamour.
No soy capaz de puntuar este libro, no me salen las palabras para hablar de mi experiencia lectora, así que recurriré a las imágenes aunque no se si lo captarán.

Got in your past sociopaths & narcisists? not to worry. This is the story of how what doesn't kill you makes you stronger, plus it's got heaps of redemption. Not my genre, but still much enjoyed it as well as the fine audio reader.
MARAVILLOSA.Mi percepción demuestra una vez más que no todos sentimos de la misma manera una lectura.Me sentí atrapada por la magia de Susan, sentí que cada linea relatada tenia su razón para contarnos esta hermosa historia.
Son zamanlarda okuduğum belki de en iyi kitaptı!SEP yine farkını göstermişti ve ben yazarın kalemini çok özlemişim.Karakterleri o kadar incelikli işliyor ki kitaplarına aşk kitabıydı deyip geçmek büyük haksızlık.
SEP farkı da bu olsa gerek...Ben kitaptan bir parça SEP'in kitaplarından biri olan BALAYI tadını aldım, ki o kitabı da çok çok severim.
En az onun kadar sempati beslediğim bir diğer karakter de şüphesiz Jake oldu.
Ama şu kadarını söyleyeyim ki bu kitap çok daha fazlası!Bana göre tek eksik Michel'in fazlasıyla gölgede kalmasıydı, ki o da en az Fleur kadar yaralı ve marazlı bir çocuktu.
Okuduğum her sayfada kadından nefret ettim.
Novels stuffed with starlets, champagne, betrayal and- true love, there is an atmosphere created in those books that reel you in and let you escape for awhile.But Glitter Baby has the one thread that many of the over the top novels from the golden age of romance did not- it has a vulnerable, smart, strong heroine who doesn't give up on finding her independence.
She lives and love passionately, goes for what she wants but has a selflessness that women of today relate very well too.Fleur may have been dealt a raw deal with the family she was born into- but she never gave up and her attitude took her farther than her cold-hearted father's money ever could.This novel makes you run the gamut of emotions like any good escapist reading should.
DNF - 35% There are not many books I abandon but this one has been added to that pile. For me it was a rollercoaster ride and every time I thought it was going to get going it stalled....There's no way to sugar coat it but I was bored and have moved onto the next. From what I could tell this book doesn't seem to have anything to do with Wynette so can't understand why it's in this series!
3'5☆ De todos los libros que llevo leído de esta autora,este me ha parecido el más flojo...El comienzo me pareció muy lento.Me ha sobrado momentos de la madre,se me hacía muy pesada.Me ha faltado más momentos entre J y F.Pero eso si,los que había me han encantado.♡La historia en sí,no ha estado mal,habido momentazo!Me ha gustado :)
I am not a fan of re-issued romances.
Susan Elizabeth Phillips' books have obviously very much improved since this one was written.
I think they must have decided to re-issue this one because the main characters show up nominally (and years later) in the new book "What I Did For Love".If you are new to Susan Elizabeth Phillips please skip this one and try one of the newer books!
If you are a SEP-fan, then this may be worth your while.
It seems to me more like the old Judith Krantz books or maybe Danielle Steel???
than what we have become used to and love.
Početak je dosta obećavao, ali zatim je počeo uvid u život Fleurine majke, Belinde, pre nego što je Fleur postala Zlatna djevojka, ma pre nego što je uopšte Fleur došla na svet...taj deo je tako bio dosadan...pa onda povratak u "sadašnjost" i tu već počinje da se dešava nešto. Kako mi je prvi deo ovog serijala puno bolji od ovog dela a dala sam mu 4 zvezdice, ovaj deo jednostavno ne mogu da ocenim sa više od 3 zvezdice.
Ha sido el libro de SEP que más me ha costado leer y se nota que es el primero.
He tenido altibajos con él porque hay partes que me han divertido mucho y otras que se me hacían pesadas.
He echado de menos más relación de los protagonistas, ha sido más una historia de ella, toda la vida de ella, lo cual está bien pero no es a lo que yo estoy acostumbrada con SEP.
De todos modos hay partes que me las he leído del tirón y que me han gustado mucho, la esencia de esta mujer está ahí, des del principio de su gran carrera.
Her sahnesini yazmak anlatmak istiyorum ama sığmaz ki işte benim Sep aşkım ufacık instagrama :)Fleur Savagar, normal kızlardan biraz daha uzun büyük el ve ayaklara sahip oldugunu ve oldukca kaba göründüğünü düşünen amma cillop gibi bir hatun kızımızdır.
Annesi yılda 2 kez onu ziyaret etmekte ve Fleur ona büyük bir hayranlık beslemektedir.
James Dean ve Errol Flynn gibi :D Belinda 'yı anlayabilecegim tek yön buydu iste adamlar gercekten taş arkadas :PAçıkçası Belinda'nin da Alexi gibi bir sonu olsun isterdim.
"Fleur ilk askıyı çekti ve durdu."Haydi." Adam tabancayla sert bir hareket yaptı.
"Ne dedin sen?""Beni duydun.""Beni daha fazla zorlama, Öğretmen Hanım!"Fleur kodlarını göğsünde kavuşturdu.Lanet olsun, diye düşündü Jake.
ETA: Ah. Turns out Fleur and Jake are parents to a lead in a book later in the series.
Worse, SEP seems enamored of the selfish idiot Belinda so we get to spend whole sections (including the stupidest epilogue of any of her books so far) from her PoV.
Except in retrospect.And while I liked Fleur, and even Jake (when he wasn't being an emotionally constipated idiot), they still manage to fall into half the romance clichés that ever took a shot at the respectability of tropedom (but failed).
You know you are in the hands of a good writer when time suspends, the story is so real you find yourself lost in it, and the characters are three dimensional enough that you truly CARE what happens to them.
Glitter Baby, although it is an earlier work of hers, still has all the elements that make SEP so unique and addicting!
Glitter Baby has elements of BOTH romance and fiction.
Fleur is a pawn in her parent's twisted lives, obsessions, and desires.
The best part of this book is watching Fleur's coming of age and her learning how to become her own person.
It is funny, heartwrenching, and by far the best book I've read in a long time.
Въпреки, че тази книга не е съвсем типична за стила на Сюзън Елизабет Филипс, смятам, че е една от най-силните й книги. Така обичният хумор, присъстващ в повечето книги на авторката, тук сякаш липсва или е притъпен от сериозността на всички житейски перипетии и разочарования в живота на героите. Книгата някак се намира на границата между разпускащо и хвърлящо в размисли четиво, а това лавиране на мен лично ми допада.Ревю: http://thecrazyadmins.info/index.php/...
Започна неубедително тази книга, но постепенно стана интересна.Не е типично в стила на авторката,малко ми наподобяваше Луиз Бегшоу. В крайна сметка всичко си дойде по местата, не липсва чувството й за хумор, добрите диалози.Грандоманията е това , което ме дразни в американските автори.Всичко е най. Свръхреалистични неща се описват, които нямат нищо общо с живота.Всяка книга обаче,която ме кара да я прочета на един дъх,получава моята висока оценка.
Tenía muchísimas ganas de volver a leer a SEP, así que ha sido la oportunidad perfecta ♥ (...)Es la hora de las confesiones: yo creía que este libro era una comedia romántica.
Esta novela debería haberme roto el corazón a tenor de la historia que contaba, debería haberme robado cinco mil lagrimas, pero no ha sido así.
(...)Para ser su primera novela (junto a Una chica a la moda) creo que se lució mucho, pero lo dicho, a mi no ha conseguido llegarme como debería, no me ha dejado rota de dolor, ni me he pasado todo el libro llorando.
Although that was the original publish date, it wasn't the date of the book setting.Our story begins when a stupid obnoxious twit changes her name to Belinda and runs away to Hollywood to fall in love with the stars.
While this may annoy some, I like the way that it sets the stage and gives most of the character's motivations.
I thought a couple of the characters were a little too evil to be believed.
I didn't believe a couple of plot devices.
And yet I really enjoyed this book.
Keep in mind that this story was written I believe in the mid to late 80's, so it's a bit dated.
I really wish they would have made some updates before re-releasing it, because part of this story had a bit of an "ick factor" in it for me.Loved the story of Fleur and Jake and thought it was great.
I loved both characters and it was great to see Fleur fall and rise....A strong character.
Both were very strong characters and added much to the story.Now to Fleur's mother, father and step-father.
Get ready for a blast into the past of old Hollywood!
Lots of back story, but all relevant information!
Without being trapped in Belinda's mind for a while you may never understand her motives.
Her actions and thought process will make you want to hurling your kindle across the room.
Officially the award for worst mother of the year: Belinda Savard!
I love the Wynette series, the way the stories blend together is seamless.
I actually read  Call Me Irresistible (Wynette, Texas #6) first, (because come on Ted Beaudine!) but I am so glad I went back and learned about how Meg's parents got together.
Interesting story involving highly dysfunctional relationships where children end up in the middle.
Fluera Savagar becomes a model more to fulfill her mother Belinda's dreams.
Fluera becomes an unwitting pawn in miserable games orchestrated by her parents.
At times, it was difficult to buy into Fluera's acceptance of these people when she was made aware of some of the horrible choices they made that significantly impacted her.
It felt at times that there were too many extremes involving too many of the characters for it to be plausible...too much drama.
All in all, the book kept me engaged, I was never bored and it was well written.
4/5 #WinterthonMe encantó salvo por dos cositas: Belinda es la peor de toda la historia, me arruinó el epílogo, de verdad, algo tan bonito estropeado por una persona tan horrible y la resolución en general, creo que en los últimos instantes tendría que haber habido más enfrentamiento. Pasando de esto fue una lectura hermosa, me leí como 200 páginas en un día de lo enganchada que me tenía, recomendable. Reseña completa: http://stclouds.blogspot.com.ar/2016/...
