https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/311308.Devil_s_Cub
Then Mary will tell Vidal that Sophia helped plan the switcheroo, to put him off pursuing the relationship with her sister further.
Actually, I've reread bits and parts of this book so many times that I really have no idea anymore what my total read count is!April 2015 group read with the Georgette Heyer group.
Update: I found it a LOT funnier on second reading! I laughed from the beginning with "What have you done with the corpse, my boy?" "Done with it? WHAT SHOULD I DO WITH A CORPSE?!?!?!?!!!"  to the end "Give Sophia a glass!! We're drinking your health!" "IT'S MARY!!!"**Contains spoilers and strong language** " 'They're all mad, every one of 'em,'" That's what I thought at about 1/3 of the book, and then I decided to view this story as just a fun, silly screw-ball comedy.And....I loved it. When I
I thought you where some kinda whore like your sister, but you’re actually a devilish fine girl, and now i can’t really do what i generally do to sluts, so hummm…marry me???Mary: NEVER!!!Vidal: Say that again and I’ll STRANGLE THE LIVING BREATH OUT OF YOU!***Juliana: Omg my boyfriend is like, sooo annoying, like seriously I can’t take it, gotta go out and party hard and flirt with every jerk I meet.
I’m going over there and tell her we’re so totally over.Mary: SHIT, I LOVE VIDAL, BUT I CAN’T MARRY HIM, OKAY!!!!***Avon: Hello Fanny!
While this book is awesome, I'd recommend going with one of Heyer's Regency novels.
Anyway, do you like Regency romance novels?
Well, Georgette Heyer invented that shit.
READ SOMETHING BY HER.And if you happen to read her at a very young age you may come to the conclusion that some gentleman will eventually discover your innate awesomeness, no matter what state of degradation you live in, and make you a Duchess or, at the very least, extremely rich.
This is unlikely to happen.But fuck it.
The books are totally rad.Fuck, I forgot.
BR with the innately awesome Ingela, Irina and Sofia!
Written November 9, 20144 1/2 Stars - Magnificently adventurous, fun and romantic in a still strong 1930's 'Pre-Regency'Devil's Cub is an quite old romance novel from 1932 by Georgette Heyer.
I've read / listened to / watched Austen's and the three Brontë sisters novels and stories so many times by now so it feels GREAT to have another pile of romantic well written old classics to chose from and read between all these new (very smexy, sexy, steamy...) romances I usually read every day.
Instagram || Twitter || Facebook || Amazon || Pinterest🎃 Read for the Unapologetic Romance Readers  Halloween 2017 Reading Challenge  for the category of: a romance written by an author who is dead 🎃There might not be any sex in Georgette Heyer regency romances, but man that woman can pack more drama into these puppies than Julia Quinn at her most malicious. DEVIL'S CUB is downright soap opera-ish in terms of scope and characterization.The plot is basically this - hold onto your bonnets: Domini
For some reason, this makes them get on fairly well and Mary even confesses (privately, in her head) to loving him shortly after....!?At the same time, there's a character named Frederick Comyn who is in love with a girl named Julianna.
I really could not stand her, and thought it was odd that the book ended with her just dropping out of the plot.Mrs. Challoner, Mary and Sophia's mother, is also awful, so keen to push Sophia into the arms of the marquis despite his reputation.
Or is it also in the supposed 'romantic' attachments portrayed in the book?I want to think that Heyer's book here is a Verhoevenesque masterpiece, an explosion of the totally wacky and conflicting sexual desires of and societal expectations for 'respectable' women, both contemporary and historical.
You know, the one who threatened her and throttled her and abducted her and then tried to rape her until she shot him.Then when she shot him, he *finally* realized she wasn't a slut, so then he totally respected her enough to try and force her to marry him instead, even though she repeatedly said she did not want to.
It's the best love-hate relationship I've read in a long time.
(Yes, there's one kiss at the end, in case you wonder.) That's the strength of well written characters.
The "boy hates girl, girl loathes boy, then turns into love" theme has been done countless times, but in Devil's Cub, the emotion and story felt not only refreshing, but also natural.
The way Vidal and Mary tried to protect one other regardless of their self-interest was very touching, and for a long time they did it without realizing each other's feeling.
Vidal can’t believe his rotten luck of late, after shooting a man for calling him a cheat at cards, then having to run off to Pairs to avoid going to trial, Vidal thought getting a girl to run away with him would be the easy part, but when her straight laced sister tricks him into thinking she was her sister, in a fit in a rage drags her along with him.
Mary and Vidal match wits and trade banter between them as their family closes in on them from both sides and when all hells breaks loose, they find out they just can’t live without each other and their love.
Thank goodness for Mary Challoner. Not my favorite Heyer heroine by any means, but at least she's a semi-normal, sympathetic human being. Otherwise this would've been a dnf as I hated every single other character. Especially Leonie, God, I cringed every time she was on the page. She and her husband were so awful that it almost made me forgive Vidal for being such an asshole, which I guess was necessary for the romance to work.
This is the world from which the heroine, named Mary, hails.Mary is normal, sensible (not boring) smart and real.Dominic is...madder than a bag of spanners.
He's a real aristo, and will kill people in a duel at the drop of a hat, seduce women right,left and centre.On his way to a party, he'll shoot highwaymen and leave their corpses in the road,as one does etc etc.
When Dominic has to flee England having killed one man too many, he decides to get Mary's sister to come with him.
How do you review your favourite book, especially when you love it beyond all reason?My love for what I think of as Georgette Heyer's masterpiece doesn't mean I would want Vidal in my own life as either a spouse or a son.
He worships speed, drinks heavily & he & his cronies spend a lot of time/money on fashionable toys!I think the break neck speed of the whole book would make a wonderful BBC production.
I may still fiddle about with this review - I simply can't praise this book too much as wonderful escapist fiction!Sorry for all the problems with my pictures - one of the reason I don't normally use images.["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>
Twenty-five years have passed, and we're presented with Leonie and Avon's son, Lord Vidal, who has grown up to be even more unpleasant than his father.
Now, I enjoy a reformed rake as much as the next Regency romance fan, but there is only so much vileness that we should ask our heroine to find attractive in a man.Speaking of the heroine, she is a practical, sensible sort (aside from an inexplicable fondness for Vidal) which presents a nice change from Leonie's empty-headed subservience.
And the aged, cane-wielding Avon's scenes are nicely done.The dialog has Heyer's usual spark, and I did enjoy this book more than its prequel, but it's still a far cry from my favorite of Heyer's novels.
Thank you, Sofia, for bringing her books to my attention!Devil's Cub has made me happy and put a wide satisfied smile on my face.
This kind of books is the reason I love romance genre so much.
I can easily put Heyer on the same level as my favourite Jane Austen or even higher still.
Written with class, propriety, wit and humour, weaved into a simple yet masterful plot, it was a pure indulgence.
All I can add is that to me, this kind of books are timeless, and I would love to add this to my precious paperback collection.
But her sister takes her place to save her honor!
And he kidnaps the sister to Paris!
And then he must marry her to save her reputation (because she, unlike her sister, has upper class graces, and is therefore worthy).Okay, I think I officially have the wrong-shaped brain for historical romance.
The hero demonstrates his willingness to strangle the heroine and I think, oh, God, she's about to mistake adrenalized terror for attraction isn't she?.
He kisses her and I think, do either of them have all their teeth, being over the age of twenty?
They get engaged at last, and I think does she know that women can have orgasms?
Avon covers the scene, you know what I mean?Thirdly, I wanted there to be more interactions between Vidal and Mary so that the growth in mutual affection could further be felt.
I so hope I'm all agog with excitement like I was after TOS after the reread.Having said all this, I also have to add that Devil's Cub was by far a very entertaining book.
This was a heart warming phase <3 Here one could feel that Vidal is being smitten by her.•	Mary and Avon’s meeting and disclosure of the facts by Mary.
His love and respect for Léonie and regard for Avon can be felt.
There are similar themes across the four books, including the abduction trope we see in this book, Devil's Cub.List of characters, courtesy of Sofia: The "Devil's Cub" is Dominic Alistair, age 24, Marquis of Vidal - son of Leonie (French) and Justin (British) Alastair, the Duke and Duchess of Avon.
Leonine and Justin are the stars of the fabulous May-December romance, These Old ShadesMary Challoner - age 20, Daughter of Mr & Mrs Challoner, grandniece of General - Sir Giles Challoner, older sister to Sophia.
(hide spoiler)]Sophia Challoner - Daughter of Mr & Mrs Challoner, grandniece of General - Sir Giles Challoner, younger sister of Mary.Justin Alastair, Duke of Avon, once a rakehell known also as Devil, Satanas.
"But then, you chose puce." She shook her head, and it was apparent she set no store by the compliment.Mary's younger sister, Sophia, is a beautiful empty-headed girl who has caught the eye of Vidal, London's most notorious rake.
(And he's not just a rake with the ladies; by page 54 he's already shot two men.) Mary knows Vidal has no intentions of making an honest woman of Sophia once he's had her, and when she stumbles across his plans to spirit her sister away, Mary takes action.
My cat, who was sleeping right next to me, was awaken several times and made me well aware with some glaring looks that I was disturbing his comfortable nap.The characters are a true delight, attaching and far from perfect, which made them even more attractive to my eyes.
There are so many memorable moments that is hard to pick up a favorite.Vidal is a true rake, not the kind that makes all the show and, at the end, is another misunderstood man who is in great need of talking about his feelings.
Reread:I'm not going to change my rating but I don't think I loved this as much the second time around.
I think in the last five years I've become more sensitive to abusive/controlling behaviors and Vidal had too many qualities that now are red flags to me.
Also (and maybe this is because I've been reading a lot of slow burn romances lately), the love felt a little insta to me.
I think what I liked about this the first time (so soon after reading These Old Shades), was the presence of so much of Leonie and Avon.
There's no reason to really like him that I could find, he lacks the charm, he's more erratic and aloof, and it's hard to see why exactly the heroine loves him, a sudden revelation, because when she explains it in her head and we contrast it with Vidal's behaviour and what we see on-page, these reasons sound puzzling.
The heroine is much more likable because she has commonsense and a practicality that contrasts with the more rakish male.The plot itself is entertaining as a comedy of errors, which in the end is what makes the book appealing and a fun read.
BR with Sofia, Rosa and IngelaMy first Heyer... My review of an e-book edition here
Mary, our pleasant but dowdy in comparison heroine, finds out the plan and takes it upon herself to save her sister by going in her stead.
The story was spiced up with visits from our most beloved characters from book one, particularly the dad, who was to my disappointment considerably less dandified in his old age.
But in one part, it made me wonder if the old geezer didn't fool around on Miss Leonie.
For that matter, I could definitely see this hero (Vidal) following through with his plans to make a mistress of the slutty Sophia, who'd be totally game.
Child of the Macchiavellian near-villain Avon and the hot-headed Leone, Vidal has the best and worst of both his parents - looks, skills, address, a strong lack of scruples and an overpowering temper.Although Heyer isn't actually criticising the circumstances, this is a neat illustration of the separation of women into women you can treat badly and women you treat with considerably more courtesy and are obliged to marry if you accidentally treat them badly.
This was my first book of Georgette Heyer and I wanted to read for so long time.
After I read her a few fabolous reviews about Ms. Heyer, her books became must read.
So here I'm, very happy and very satisfied.What I like most this book about is vivid scenes and dialogues.
And it wasn't forced humor either, it was genuinely entertaining.Though, romance part was not actually include very much consideration or was implemented as we used to read, yet it was the heart of the plot and all other events.
So somehow, I was satisfied about that too.I liked it very very much and I think I'll read author's other books as well, especially Frederica.
I wanted more of Avon and Leonie in the book, though.
You could tell Heyer still loves them and the pages shine when they come back on stage.Dominic's an okay hero, though he's even more pushy and headstrong than the norm with a pushy and headstrong hero, and he lacks Avon's polish and wit.
My favorite scene is when Mary and Avon finally meet.
The book would have been MUCH more interesting if Mary was the daughter of Avon and Dominic the "unsuitable" one.
Dominic might've been forced to grow up and shut up some more.Also- The brother from These Old Shades is back too!
When the handsome but notorious Lord Vidal attempts to make the gorgeous Sophie Challoner his mistress, he gets her down to earth no nonsense sister Mary instead, as Mary bids to save her sisters reputation.
In doing so, she ruins her own, and so Vidal offers to marry her to save it...Hands down my favorite Heyer - I've read this one a few times.
And I'm not alone - I was reading it on the train the other day and a woman tapped me on the shoulder and says, "I just wanted to say that you're reading my favorite book in the world." Vidal is the ultimate original bad boy - the book opens with his shooting and killing a highwayman who attempts to hold up his carriage, and calmly ordering to drive on.
Eh. So I did like this one a little bit better than These Old Shades.
Well, mostly Leonie (bleh, not a fan of hers).
But what do you expect from the child of a reptile (Avon) and a bubblehead (Leonie) other than be severely unhinged, really.
I think I could've appreciated the screwball fun of the book, if Heyer kept the appearance of the whole annoying family to a minimum and kept the spotlight on Mary and Vidal.
He's psycho and she's so calm, it would've been amusing.
I think I'm done with Heyer, though.
April 2015 Georgette Heyer Fan group read. This was great fun! I'm not overly fond of bad-boy romances, but I'll make an exception for Vidal.
You know, if there were some way of getting rid of both Leonie and Dominic, I would be a lot happier.
Not that Mary has much more sense than Leonie (she doesn't want to marry Vidal, because doing so would bring the disgraced, louche, alcoholic, gambling, murdering, childish brat down to her level; despite how fluttery she feels when he acts all Dominant and Masterly towards her [to which, I can only vomit]), but she is much less annoying.Dominic should be put on a small raft and set adrift somewhere in the Atlantic.
I love Georgette Heyer.
Her writing transports you out of this world and into one where chivalry is king, and the man in love with you is the manliest of dashing rakes.
You will be immediately plunged into detailed intrigues and a fast moving plot and surrounded by characters that are so lovable you truly hate to say goodbye at the end of the book.
I love the Alastair series - for all the reasons above and because I love the reoccurring characters.
I would have to say that this is one of my favorite trio of books written by an author who already is one of my favorites that I oft return to.
