https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/108408.Crimes_of_the_Heart
In 1980 Beth Henley won the Pulitzer Prize for drama for her Crimes of the Heart, a three act character study about three sisters in small town Mississippi.
Caring for her grandfather as well as dealing with rumors about both her sisters in a small town where everyone knows each other's business has aged her emotionally well beyond her years.
Henley has created three strong, yet emotional unstable characters in Lenny, Meg, and Babe.
Between Lenny, Meg, and Babe, the three women run the gamut of human emotions, creating a powerful drama that merited its Pulitzer.
At one level this seems like a family version of Sartre’s No Exit, as each character seemed to have created her own hell that was made worse by complex interactions with the others.
Another strength of the play itself is the rich history that Henley has created through the narrow lens of the dialogue.
Almost like a focused perspective, we learn about characters not in the play but whose actions and influence paint indelible marks on the McGrath sisters, especially the shadow of their mother’s suicide and the oppressive tyranny of Old Grandaddy.

Loved this play. That I played Lenny in our community theatre production of the show didn't hurt my love of it. ;-) It really is a heartwarming story of three sisters each dealing with their own personal demons and issues brought on by how they were treated when they were growing up. Although it appears to be stereotypically southern in humor and behavior, there is a depth,honesty and truth that underlies the relationships portrayed in this story/play..
What a great way to spend my morning! I saw a scene from this play performed recently and just had to read the play. Hilarious, heart-wrenching, and more hilarious. I'd love to see the whole play performed.
I've always enjoyed this play, although it's difficult to perform with both humor and genuine emotion. Of course, we ruined it when we performed it in high school - but I still enjoyed the reading. (For the record, I played Meg.)
Crimes of the Heart is a truly tender read about three sisters.
Meg, Babe, and Lenny are brought back together when a real life crime drama hits a little too close to home.Meg the wild child of the sisters returns home after living "the dream" in California.
Babe is so upset by her husband's actions that she shoots him.
Then she offers her shot husband a glass before she calls the ambulance.All three sisters have been branded "crazy" because of the way their mother killed herself.
However.One of those 'forces of nature' is a fifteen year old black boy having an affair with an older white woman, who gets next to no say in his fate (which is determined by a white dude), and who is treated as an adult - and a sexually exciting one - by the women who discuss him.We did this play in partnership with the US Mission and some UN gender program, and there was a special Q&A on Thursday night.
Folks, its 2016 and african-american boys get shot in the street because they're deemed adult and threatening, and you don't have *any* qualms about this play doing the same thing AND ensuring he never comes on stage or speaks AND sexualising a CHILD?
I liked this one.
Funny and depressing, all while being wrapped in love, no matter how distorted it gets.
There's a lot of hurt in this play, a lot of unforgiven pain that comes out at the drop of the hat.
It was fun reading this and imagining how it would play out on stage, it has great potential to be an amazing show.It's funny (I cracked up at the Pecan scene) and there's a great levity to the more depressing moments.
I like the uncertainty at the end, it end on a high note even though we know it shouldn't.
Simmering Southern Sadness and Sisterhood
Though I've known about this play since it came out in the early eighties, it wasn't until I was approached to direct it that I actually read it.
What a gem!
Henley definitely deserves her place in the canon of Southern playwrights.
The play is starting to show signs of age, but the characters are timeless and extremely compelling.
The women are clearly the stars of the show, but it never feels like a "chick flick" (for lack of a better phrase).
Likewise, though it's very Southern, it transcends its setting with just the right mix of quirky humor and a keen insight into family drama.
It is difficult, very, for me to look past the sexual relationship of a 24 year old with a 15 year old.
But OTHER THAN THAT this is a nice snap shot of characters I like who represent different types of women, which is just so nice to see.
And I'm kinda with all of them, understanding why they would do the things they do.
I guess I don't grasp what that added to the story or the character.
Like, that just makes her a shit person and her sister a shit person for supporting her.
The play is about the reunition of three sisters(Babe, Meg, Lenny) when Babe attempts to murder her husband and I really liked the play since this is a play about the bonding of three sisters and their rebirth in solidarity and in laughter together. The other thing that I like is that the focus is not the murder attempt as the reader expects in the beginning but it is on the woman’s rebirth through female solidarity.
my issue with this story (that apparently freaking won a Pulitzer) as that it seems to me that so many novels written in the 20th century by american female writters have such a similar style to them. The writting, the characters, the character development, the plots, the "vibe" in general, its all some what like valley of the dolls. Not too much diversity or orginality I think
What I loved most about this play is the way Beth Henley captures the essence of how women talk with each other. Roundabout, circling away and back, honing in on what’s important in all the extraneous chatter that keeps society functioning.
I also had to read this for a class project, it was over a year ago and I honestly don’t remember much of it. We did spend most of the semester reading it and by the end I never wanted to read it again
A beautiful story of complicated people. I think it does a great job at helping us understand the simple humanity behind suicidal individuals and thoughts. It is an interesting perspective on pathological issues and how they must be addressed. A very cool story.
This was a quick read of an entertaining play.
... and then it just ended.
I enjoyed the dialect and the banter in this play, and who says all plays need a clear resolution? Apparently, there is a film version that I now might have to see.
With the central idea being family, Henley’s play looks into the relationships between the sisters by comparing and contrasting their lives.
This is because while the play brings up tragic events (the suicide of the sister’s mother, the relationship issues of two of the sisters, the beating of a boy, and the murder of Babe’s husband), the mood of the play is lightened with the love, caring and understanding of the sisters and their antics.
Lenny McGrath is the responsible sister and she takes care of their grandfather and looks after Babe.
To be fair to Crimes of the Heart, I’m not a fan of dysfunctional family dramas.
That’s what I thought Crimes of the Heart was going to do.The play starts strong.
Despite being about yet another dysfunctional family, it felt like was going to quickly dash off in creative and wonderful directions.
But the play stalls, and the result is a story that, perhaps in a nod to some post-modernism, deconstructionist impulse, never escapes the family dynamics or even develops much of a story.
Plus, it’s always welcome (and remains too rare) to see female characters as leads and predominately playing against other women.
I also was surprised that the ending didn't work as well for me as it did in 1995...I didn't care as much for Babe this time.
I started watching the film last night and Sissy Spacek helps me like the character of Babe, so, I guess, it's one of the age-old stories of theater where the script is a blueprint for the director, actors, and designers to improve upon.
They seemed like a lot of lower-class people I know in Northern Idaho, but, I realized this has to do with Southern culture...and some historical trauma that allows this sense of entitlement for not a lot of work.
As part of my research for finding monologues to perform in acting class this semester, Crimes of the Heart was one of the few where a monologue is spoken by a young female character (such a shame).While it was an enjoyable read, I found the language spoken by the characters a little difficult to get used to.
I couldn't quite put my finger but the way the sisters interacted with each other, and Babe's personality, didn't quite mesh well for me in most scenes.
The fifteen/twenty pages towards the ending had me keep reading, and it is a fitting ending for the play (ambiguous)...but most of the dialogue/circumstances felt like they could do with a bit more polishing.
Wonderfully intricate character/relationship writing between three very different sisters from the South who come together when catastrophe strikes the family.
Very accessible and humorous despite the heaviness the trials/issues they are beset with, and full of extremely genuine-feeling familial love.
You wouldn't think something as simple as surprising your sister with a birthday cake would have the kind of breathless, suspenseful stakes that it had in this scene, but it really did.
I was absolutely terrified by the ramifications of someone failing to give a birthday cake to someone else...
That's powerful writing when you really, truly are made to care.
I finished this play in a matter of one day.
It is perhaps one of the best plays I've ever read, and that is an understatement.
I could relate to it family-wise because I have 3 sisters and of course we've fought many times before and never often see each other nowadays because one sister is in med school and another in dental...
With interesting and relatable characterization, a simple setting, and a plot that keeps you desiring for more, "Crimes of the Heart" delivers the package of a daunting drama that'll make you laugh and cry.
Crimes of the Heart is a pretty widely known play, so I was expecting more from it.
We don't see how a single things that's mentioned in the play ends up.
So it makes me wonder why I read the whole thing or sat through a whole performance.
It's not like there's some big lesson about life or mankind at the end of it.
It's not like the characters are incredibly crafted like in a Tennesse William's plot-less play.
No thanks.That being said, I think it would be an okay play to act in or even see performed live.
But reading it was not the best.
I saw the movie (EXTREMELY true to the play) in the theatre twice--once in a theatre only a couple hours' drive from the town where it was set, and again in California.
There were lots of laughs both times, but rarely at the same lines, which to my young self was very enlightening.
This play is hilarious and so Southern.
Someone below described it as "schlocky," I believe, but bless his heart, because this writing is true in a way that southern gothic so often is.
In some ways, my very own mother is Lenny.
It's a fantastic piece and very close to my heart.
Really interesting play.
It was enjoyable to read.
The unique roles and relationships within would make this a great challenge for any performer.
The bond of the three sisters is the core of this comedy/drama, but it works well as an ensemble piece as well.
The men in the story expose another side of these sisters and provide a nice depth and change of pace to keep things interesting.
In some ways the end leaves you hanging, but it seems to me that the purpose of this tale is to explore the characters and not to bring closure to everyone involved.
It's a slice-of-life kind of play.
Very interesting.

