https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/270919.Clutch_of_Constables
This is told somewhat differently than the other Roderick Alleyn books I’ve read so far, starting with Alleyn recounting a case in which his wife Troy became unwittingly involved.
Troy’s attitude with the victim and with some of the others on the boat was human certainly, but I felt one would have expected a somewhat different reaction from one who has possibly been involved in mysteries before (I haven’t read the whole of the series nor enough of it in order to be completely right on this point, but still).
This is one of my favorite books in an excellent series.
I enjoy the way Marsh keeps both Troy and Roderick in the story though they are separated for much of the novel.
I think creating a murder during a houseboat vacation is very clever - it's a twist on the usual isolated country house.
In addition, the mystery is genuinely mysterious, as are most of Marsh's stories.A home run and highly recommended.
NB- Nadia May narrates the audio book.
She's usually excellent, but she pronounces his name incorrectly.
Just plain 'Allen', as he explains in several of the books.
The greatest mystery: why was the body moved (in such a bizarre way)remains unsolved. Unforgivable.
Loved it, can't wait for the next one.
Constables refers to paintings by the very real painter John Constable.
Agatha Alleyn, aka Troy, gets a last minute berth on a river cruise in England while her husband is touring the States.
Various odd things are going on, which Roderick is writing to her husband when one of the passengers goes missing, and she fears this woman has been murdered.This is my first time reading anything by Kiwi writer Ngaio Marsh and since it is the 25th book featuring Mrs. Alleyn, I didn't realize at first that she is normally an amateur sleuth who loves crimes because her husband happens to be a Chief Inspector.
Yes, a New Zealander writing books set in England.
I wasn't expecting much from this as I hated the only other Ngaio Marsh book I've read (Death at the Dolphin), and chose to read it only so that I could get rid of it and clear a space on my shelves. That backfired though, because I found it pretty compelling. It was good enough that I think I'll have to borrow my sister's Ngaio Marsh collection.
I can always rely on a Ngaio Marsh novel. Her writing is just so spot on, light but not frivolous, entertaining and smart. I love Alleyn & Troy's relationship.
in Clutch of Constables by Ngaio Marsh, the greatest painter in England, Agatha Troy Alleyn, has been at a show of her artwork in Northumberland when she spots a sign at a travel agency that a single cabin on the river cruiser M.V. Zodiac is suddenly available.
So on impulse, she takes the berth, transporting her into a big adventure.
Good to the Last Page, in my opinion. This is the second time I had read it, but did not remember much of it. Enjoyable and found out Inspector Fox's nickname is Teddy. First time I even knew his first name was Edward, I think.
In which Alleyn’s famous wife, Troy, stars.
Terrific fun, with echoes of classic early Hitchcock throughout.
If you want proof of NM's fundamental cruelty, you have only to witness her treatment of that most loathsome of objects -- a person with a head cold.Dorothy Sayers could be equally unsparing, but in general, her impartial catalogs of human frailty make her readers feel compassion, rather than embarrassed contempt.
Even late-Sayers' Wimsey is occasionally ridiculous, but the only thing that makes Troy and Alleyn squirm is vicarious embarrassment.
NM gave her characters the attitudes she gave them and then (in the case of Troy and Alleyn) congratulates them for their enlightened point of view.
The prospect of traveling by boat through the countryside that Constable painted was irresistible.She didn’t know that her cabin had been reserved by a man who has been murdered, believe by a master criminal the police call ‘The Jampot.’ But she found out, and that made her regard her fellow passengers with a degree of suspicion.I knew that she was right to be suspicious, because this story had such a clever structure.
In Inspector Alleyn was using the affair of ‘The Jampot’ as a case study for a training course, and the story moved beautifully smoothly between his and his wife’s narration.An American brother and sister found a painting, that appeared to be an unknown work by Constable in a junk shop.And then there was a body.
Troy Alleyn, exhausted at the end of a successful one man show, takes a cancelled berth on this trip, while her husband is in the States at a criminological conference.When her letter telling him this reaches him - the post to San Francisco must have been remarkably quick in those days - he is immediately concerned, for the berth was originally taken in the name of a Mr Andropolous, a London art dealer murdered in Soho.
I have a real fondness for this series. Have no memory of which ones I've read before, and it's certainly been decades since I'd read any, but have recently read several and have found them all enjoyable. Troy, Alleyn's wife takes a riverboat cruise on her own and, of course, becomes embroiled in a mysterious death. The writing's good, and while the series was written over the course of nearly fifty years, I think they hold up pretty well.
is this my favorite Marsh? no, i guess it's not totally better than the ones with more of the Troy/Roderick interchanges.somehow Marsh still fooled me with all the info and red herrings. i still couldn't see who was the bad guy even with only 2 choices left. well-told, great setting, fabulous mystery!
Probably because Troy Alleyn is one of the major characters and I always enjoy the books that she is in.
With husband and son both away, Troy is killing time waiting for the London train when she sees a notice of a last-minute cancellation on a 5 day river/canal boat cruise.
On impulse she takes it, and meets the rest of the mixed bag of passengers as they wait for the boat, the Zodiac, to arrive.
However, when Troy remarks on this, someone in the group seems startled, thinking she means police constables.
When one of the group disappears and later turns up murdered, Troy begins to wonder whom she can trust.
I am pleased to have - finally - got around to reading Miss Marsh.
Enid Blyton, Capt.
WE Johns (Biggles!), the Hardy Boys and Nancy Drew books, John Buchan, Hammond Innes, Alistair MacLean, Agatha Christie… Ngaio Marsh simply seems next on line, despite a gap of decades.
Formula fare: a murder (or two), a mystery (or several), an exotic location (or an unusual one), a cast of suspects and a sprinkling of clues all stirred by an intrepid and intelligent detective.
Much fun but...
I considered the book well-written but the set-up a little too contrived and the characters rather two-dimensional.
This is a pretty silly story where Troy Alleyn goes on a short cruise on a river (possibly in south Yorkshire?) and one of the other passengers is an international criminal!
One of the other passengers disappears and the main part of the book is which of the small cast of characters is the criminal.
At the end Chief Superintendent Alleyn (who has been abroad) turns up, rescues his wife and unmasks the criminal.
However the author writes well and this is not a bad read compared to many modern stories but sadly this is possibly one of the author's worst books.
I actually really like this one.
First of all, there was Troy, who I always enjoy, and because I know she's already happily married to our star detective, I won't have to deal with any idiocies with young lovers.
Secondly, it was a fascinating treatment of racial relations (note that this one first came out the year MLK was assassinated, several years after the start of the civil rights movement).
Thirdly - all the red herrings!
Are they really red herrings?
Who is the guilty party?
Satisfying solution, I didn't feel too sorry for the victim, and I didn't like the murderer.
While Alleyn is giving lectures in the U.S., Troy spontaneously takes a short river cruise awaiting his return. Clever conceit of having Alleyn observe, at a remove through his wife's letters to him, a crime unfolding. Alleyn, Fox et Cie. (Fox having at least one occasion to use his French) do make their appearance and--no spoiler here--solve the crime, with the help of Troy's acute observations.
I was recommended this as a first Ngaio Marsh, and I enjoyed it. It has reached the point of being slightly knowing in its set-up of a closed environment in which two separate crimes play themselves out; Alleyn's wife is definitely worthy of the comparison with Harriet Vane. It's a very different view of the British habit of messing about on narrow-boats from _Three Men in a Boat_, but has a similar understanding of the absurdity.
I've come to expect a lot from Ngaio Marsh and I'm rarely disappointed. This novel, however, failed to deliver the goods. The outcome was predictable (that's saying a lot because I'm usually blindsided), while there were still several questions and loose ends remaining after the last page was turned.
I give it four stars as a whodunit because it keeps you guessing but as a novel it shows its age. I think having your arch villain called 'the Jampot' is probably not a good start and the whole book is a little twee. But I have always liked Alleyn and Troy (played in the TV series by the excellent Belinda Lang who I have always had a thing for) and it is a very long time since I first read this.
Dated, but psychologically sound.What a great story, Marsh is closer to Simenon than Christie, and all the better for it. Her description of fainting as a taste of death is sublime.
To my great surprise I very much enjoyed this detective story. I particularly liked the fact that it was on a boat.
God detective story
I liked the way she has Alleyn giving a lecture about this case and cutting back and forth in time.
Terrific!
I love it when Troy is in the storyline. I like her artistic outlook on things.
