https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/463149.Modesty_Blaise
Vincent Vega's bathroom book from Pulp Fiction. Talk about artwork to die for...
Note, May 19, 2016: I just edited this review to correct one misspelled word.British author Peter O'Donnell created the iconic character of Modesty Blaise in 1963 as the heroine of an action adventure comic strip.
But I could understand her motivations, and didn't have any trouble liking and respecting her as a heroine --she has a lot of very real virtues, is a born leader and as valiant a fighter as ever lived, cares about others and treats them decently, and respects innocent life (and will spare adversaries' lives at times when some people in her shoes probably wouldn't).At one point, O'Donnell makes use of a double coincidence in his plotting, which some critics might fault him for.
Radnja k'o radnja za špijunski roman, malo sam se iskreno i smorila dok opisuju svaki puškomitraljez koji koriste i u detalje svaku junačku borbu prsa u prsa, ali to je taj žanrovski fazon i nije tu moglo bogzna šta novo da bude.
Ali živa sam se smorila od svih muškaraca koji seku vene za Modesti i ona koja nekako nije imala svoju ličnost, više smo bili u glavi onog Tananta, Trenanta, eto koliko je bitan lik ime mu zaboravih.
Totalno nepotrebno i malo degradira Blejzovu kao lika nakon cele one spike kako je ona "strong woman who doesn't need a man".
When I hit the scene where Modesty has guilt-free sex with an artist friend, I thought, bingo, now I know why our local librarian didn't buy it.It was published in 1965, and the inspiration was probably a female James Bond.
On the plus side, vivid settings and the attention to detail is extended to minor characters as well as major.I find Modesty a little too perfect to be interesting in herself, but Willie Garvin, her partner, is compellingly complex, and I love the way their platonic relationship is handled.
I read most of the Modesty Blaise series in the late 1970's and early 1980's, though these books were first released in Great Britain and the Caribbean in the mid-1960's. They were the first kick-butt heroine novels I'd ever read, and I loved them all. I still have the books on my keeper shelves, though the pages are brown.The points-of-view shifts among characters mid-paragraph drive me nuts today, but Modesty Blaise is still the coolest, most memorable action heroine of all time. This series is a must read!
Spies were definitely ultra-glamorous in the Sixties, and i'm a man who can appreciate an exotic location and brazen promiscuity, but i have to say i'm not a big fan of spies, as they tend to be know-it-all twats.
I do love the Roger Moore Bonds though...and Modesty Blaise is great!
And that cool mid-Sixties Swingingness and general good-humour really carried me through it all.
I did find the last 20 pages or so a bit of a slog, and as far as spy novels go, i still go for the Matt Helms, but i will defo be reading more Modesty Blaise cos she's so ace.
I've read two other books in this series but finally managed to snag a copy of the first book.
It's an entertaining series.
Modesty Blaise was an war-orphan who moved about and eventually, relying on strength of character and other factors, ended up running The Network, a successful 'crime' organization that operated in Europe and other locations.
She accepts and brining along her friend and partner, Willie Garvin, begins an adventure that will take her through the mediterranean, Egypt and other locations as she tracks down Gabriel and his gang who want to rob a ship of millions in diamonds.
Lots of fun and a good entertaining adventure.
Four stars for a rollicking good adventure.
Modesty and her faithful sidekick Willie are the impossible icons--crooks made good, helping out her Majesty's most secret of services.
No, just bored with the good life.
Having made her first million before the age of 30, she's stuck for a little excitement, while Willie discovers that he's not a businessman and it's more fun drinking in a pub than running one.
(Duh).Of course they're impossible.
O'Donnell manages to infuse a little humour into the caper; he doesn't take himself nearly as seriously as Fleming or Charteris.
It's all good clean fun--so to speak.
Absolutely as a character she is great, I just wish I liked the book around her more.It’s amusing enough, but it’s nowhere near as gripping as it should be.
Clearly very much part of the spy trend of the 1960s, O’Donnell’s prose owes a lot to Fleming, but Fleming understood that to make this kind of thing work – you need a sharpened razor just visible below the exotic glamour.I’ve never read any of O’Donnell’s comic strips or seen the film, but I have watched the trailer and don’t think I really want to.
And given trailers are supposed to encourage you to watch this film, this one really counts as a miss.
This is the first novel in the series, and introduces the setting and most of the main characters.[return][return]Modesty Blaise is a former refugee and survivor of the terrible disruptions caused by the war, and as a child drifted across Eastern Europe and the Middle East in the company of an old professor.
She retired a wealthy woman at the age of 24.[return][return]As the novel opens, Modesty and her friend and former second-in-command Willie Garvin are finding that retirement is boring and adrenaline an addiction they cannot shake.
Unlike other books with action heroines (particularly in its time), Modesty is intelligent, not afraid to get her hands dirty or of initiating violence when there's a reason.
This particular book is the one that got me hooked on Modesty - I was working free for a used bookstore and getting paid in books, and for some reason Modesty Blaise caught my eye and I took the book home with me.
I loved what I read - the various characters' personalities, the action, the quirky bad guys (not to mention some quirky good guys), the mix of exotic locations and spots in London and everything else that makes the Modesty Blaise series what it is.
Peter O'Donnell's feminine version of James Bond.
Modesty Blaise was a war orphan who never knew her parents, nationality or real name.
Growing up, she acquired interesting friends - an Arab chieftain, an old professor who home-schooled her when they had a home.
Interesting plot - a woman being the top gal and in a platonic relationship with the guy.
The series was written by Peter O'dDonnell in the 60's or 70's and it shows.Not really very good, but it should get more exciting.
I have been reading the summaries of the other books in the series.
I've followed adventures of Modesty and Willie for almost 20 years now but always in the form of comics (drawn by the great Holdaway and later by Romero).So I was surprised when I found out that there were novels about Modesty Blaise. At first I was afraid that the quality will be lower (movies were true let-downs) but boy was I wrong.This is the first novel in the series and what a novel if I may say. I can only say I wholeheartedly recommend it.
Modesty Blaise is the hero I wish James Bond could be. It's rare that a female action hero written by a man is believable as a woman, but I felt that way about Modesty. The story was, of course, far fetched, but this isn't the kind of thing you read for realistic action. It was a great escape for me, and I really liked the characters. I'm looking forward to reading more of this series.
If anyone is wondering--MY FAVORITE SERIES OF ALL TIME. I've read each book at least 4 times and I still love it.
The novel's advantage is that O'Donnell gets the space to work on some characterization of the two main characters, Modesty and Willie Garvin, and the villains though movie Bondish, even they get enough quirks to be at least mildly interesting.This first book in the series serves as a good setup for the story and the following books.
Modesty understanding that retirement does not fit her, and her own personal views on relationships, sex, and where they fit into her life when she is on, as she and Willie say, a caper.Much more likable than Fleming's Bond in Casino Royale, but a shade less interesting than the book version of Matt Helm.
I remember watching the Modesty Blaise film as a teenager back in the 60s, it was a rubbish!
The film was a badly done send up of the typical James Bond type spy movie, this is probably why I never bothered to read the books.
I decided to try this book after reading an interesting review on the Goodreads Updates.I was quite surprised how much I enjoyed the book.
I really liked that Modesty was a serious ‘kickass’ heroine who was quite prepared to be ruthless when necessary.
However, I will definitely be trying some more of these books.
A great thriller very much in the style of James Bond. Action packed from start to end with great characters Modesty Blaise and Willie Gavin. I look forward to reading more in the series.
This was recommended to me by a friend, who dearly loves it (I was told to lie to her if I didn't enjoy it!). No need for untruths, as I thought it was fantastic. It was certainly a bit grittier and darker (allusions to abuse and rape) than I had expected, but it is so wonderfully written, and the characters introduced and fleshed out so well in this first book, I can't wait to read the rest of the series. Luckily I know someone I can borrow the rest from
Fortunately for Willie, his plight is known to Sir Gerald Tarrant, head of a British intelligence organization, and knowing of Willie's value to Modesty he informs her of the situation.
After rescuing Willie, Modesty's adventure — and subsequent frequent involment in Tarrant's cloak and dagger world — begins in earnest as she and Willie take on Gabriel, a crook with a diamond-thieving agenda who comes off as Ian Fleming-light, and all you really need to know about the outcome is that Modesty and Willie put the kibosh on his scheme.Apparently written as a screenplay featuring his newspaper comic strip characters, Peter O'Donnell's first Modesty Blaise novel isn't bad, but it can't measure up to the later entries in the series thanks to it being just another in the flood of espionage stuff that was glutting the market at the time, albeit with outstanding protagonists.
A rare book from its era that presents the female hero as competent and professional.
Modesty is a believable female character, and believable as a skilled and highly trained operative.
Her sidekick is Willie Garvin, also skilled and competent, a fellow who would be the hero in most books.
Once captured, they are left alone and unharmed and of course escape and are at large right in the heart of the enemy base.
After this writing stumble - even in the sixties and seventies it was annoying - the book picks up quickly to an exciting conclusion.
Modesty Blaise is a "female James Bond" as written by a man.
We know she is an orphan who had lived a rough and tumble life.
By twenty-six having made her fortune, she retired with the hopes of living life of leisure.
People like, Modesty, really can't ever leave behind the life of action and adventure.
Circumstances bring her back into action, though in this time she is working in the employ of British Intelligence.
The author pays as much attention to Modesty's glamorous hairstyle and fashion as to her kick-ass weapons and tactics.
I was writing some fiction and a phrase popped into my head--the title of this book. I didn't know where I picked it up from, so I read the book. I expected some chauvinistic sixties cheesecake treatment of a female protagonist, and instead I found a nuanced, empowering narrative of a strong, capable woman whose strongest emotional ties are founded in a completely platonic relationship with a randy killer named Willie Garvin. Only four stars because the language is dated and tres British.
So do a lovingly developed team of friends and other secondary characters.The two initial novels (written in the ’60s) are in my opinion the strongest.This, the first, finds Sir Gerald Tarrant, the head of the Service, contemplating a task for which he has neither the personnel, the facilities nor the skill-set: to protect from attempted theft the payments from H.M. Government to the sheikh of a minor Arab kingdom in which oil has just been discovered.
And his attention is drawn to a lady who not only does possess the skill-set, she has the necessary connections to find out if such an attempt is going to be made.
Hade man frågat mig vilka som är mina favoriter bland fiktiva kvinnor hade jag utan tvekat gett två svar: Ellen Ripley från Alienfilmerna och Modesty Blaise.
Det finns ingen som bestämmer över henne, mer än vad hon själv tillåter och ingen kan tro något annat.I denna, den första boken om henne, får vi följa Modesty och Willie på sitt första uppdrag efter att de lagt ner sitt gamla kriminella nätverk, Firman.
jag kommer aldrig kunna påstå att boken tillhör det finkulturella arvet, men den kommer nog ändå alltid vara en av mina favoriter när det kommer till spion- och agentböcker.
Durante la aventura podremos ver algunas características que hacen de Modesty un personaje distinto a todos: su maravillosa relación con Willie, su manera de afrontar las relaciones humanas (y sexuales) con una carencia absoluta de prejuicios, su deliciosa habilidad para caminar por la delgada línea entre el bien y el mal y salir siempre airosa, o la cantidad de cosas que puede llegar a ocultar en su moño.
I loved the comic strip, Modesty Blaise, written by this same author.
The entire book is more and over written introduction of the characters with a bit of adventure tucked away.
Why was I reading about Willie Garvin's motivations over and over and over again?The book starts as if 20 volumes precede it with how the Modesty kid had run some organization for a few years.
More perplexing is with all of this introspection being written, what really compels the Blaise character to chase after the diamonds is not revealed.
There's some clever bits written of how the diamonds are going to be swiped.
As far as things go, it was an extremely enjoyable read (especially compared to other novels I've read from the same period for this course). Still, it was funny seeing how the existence of a female spy such as Modesty Blaise was justified at the time. Of course, it was tied to her sexuality and she was given an evil sort of double in Mrs. Fothergill. Still, a fun read and it was a great break to see the world wasn't all Ian Flemmings at the time.
I love, love, loved this book. Despite being written in the 1960s, our heroine is surprisingly modern. She's sexually adventurous and not ashamed about it, she's competent, brilliant, and dashing, all at the same time. I see the stamp of her heritage on Phryne Fisher, and it's just as delightful there. The plot is serviceable enough (as good as any Bond plot), but Modesty's rightfully the center attraction. Delightful.
I really wanted to like this book more than I did. The characters were great, but the writing didn't grab me. If you like descriptions of what people are wearing, you will LOVE this book! Also, there was a "hey why don't we use the Holy Hand Grenade against the rabbit?" moment that took me out of the story completely.I'm probably going to read another book or two in this series, because this one was pleasant., but boy, I wish it had been better.
