https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/284939.Play_Ball_Amelia_Bedelia
Oh, Amelia Bedelia! I loved her as a child, and she still is making young students laugh and connect to words and phrases we say. Play Ball serves as a nice, silly connection to my collection of baseball themed books that I've been introducing and exposing my class to. This is typical of Amelia Bedelia, but so much fun! I love when she steals the bases and "goes home!" Baseball can be confusing! This is a good one, and I love seeing my class choosing to spend some time with Amelia Bedelia.
My boss met Peggy Parish when she (my boss) was a kid! How cool is that! Now she (Peggy Parish) is dead. That makes me a bit sad. Circle of life and all of that, I know, but I wish Peggy were still writing books. (I guess her nephew has taken over the Amelia Bedelia franchise.)Anyway, this is not my favorite Amelia Bedelia book (that would be the one where she dusts the furniture and draws the drapes), but this one is good. It's pretty hilarious when Amelia Bedelia steals those bases!
Baseball fans will love this one! There's so much that can go wrong and that Amelia Bedelia can take literally. And of course she does; and it's great!Reading Level: 1st - 3rd gradesCleanliness: someone says "my goodness" and "for gosh sakes."**Like my reviews? I also have hundreds of detailed reports that I offer too. These reports give a complete break-down of everything in the book, so you'll know just how clean it is or isn't. I also have Clean Guides (downloadable PDFs) which enable you to clean up your book before reading it! Visit my website: The Book Radar.
No children's book collection could be complete without Amelia Bedelia! As a kid I was always trying to figure out how Amelia Bedelia would twist the words around or how she would take it literally before I turned the page. She is so funny and lovable. In this book my favorite has always been when Ameila steals the bases and runs home. :)
Amelia Bedelia takes on playing ball! Oh what will she do now? As always, she keeps young readers gussing as to what she'll get into this time. Predictable in the sense that she's going to do something wrong, bad wrong, but keeps readers interested to find out what.
OMG Amelia Bedelia!!!!!!!!!!!!! I WAS IN LOVE with these books when I was younger! Simply IN LOVE! They were my FAVORITE! I can still remember reading them with my Dad! Although this one, Play Ball, Amelia Bedelia, was DEFINITELY the BEST one!!!!
I read these books when I was a child, and still have memories of the stupid tales that make me smile. These books are great if you have a child in the family--even more so if you are a child at heart.
Some quirky, silly humor for kids elementary age. I always liked her books and her clueless manner.
I loved reading Amelia Bedelia books as a young child, and I read several of them again as a teenager when I worked at a library. This is one of the ones I remember reading. My favorite part was when the kids told her to "run home!"
I grew up on this book. It was pleasureable and surprising back then as it is now. 100% reccommend.
I love reading these silly books with my kids!
This was a pleasant read. I think kids will enjoy it.
I like this book! It’s funny and silly. However I can see people complaining about the fact that it portrays that “girls aren’t good at sports”
Reread via audiobook and god do I love these books!
Cute but man she would get annoying
Genre: Contemporary realisticReading Level: K-2I loved these books growing up and think they are one of those timeless books. Amelia Bedelia always makes me laugh with her her mistakes. These books have a timeless sense of humor and it is always funny to see what Amelia will do next. I feel like this book is great for encouraging independent readers and help kids understand word meaning.
This book fulfills the 2018 Popsugar Reading Challenge for a book about or involving a sport.
Grade range: 2-5Genre: Contemporary RealisticThis book was so fun to read! It had us all cracking up the entire time! This would be so fun to have as a fun read aloud to a group of children, I believe this is something all students could enjoy!
This book follows the story of Amelia Bedelia, a kind and endearing woman who tries to help people in any way she can, and a young boys' baseball team called the Grizzlies.
One day, Amelia Bedelia is walking by the baseball field and comes across the Grizzlies, who are down a player.
Eager to help, she volunteers as a substitute player even though she doesn't know much about baseball.
The story follows her learning about the game and leading the team to a victory in her own unique way.Ages: Early readers (Pre-K to 3rd grade)Rated 4 out of 5 stars for:- Beautiful illustrations (wonderful use of painting with bold outlines, great detail)- Great use of legible typography and layout- Humorous and introduces concept of puns and literal vs.
One day Amelia Bedelia was walking by the baseball field where the Grizzles team was supposed to be playing.
The team looked pretty sad so she asked what was wrong and they said that one of their players was sick so they could not play in their game that they had that day.
Amelia Bedelia suggests that she would play and it turns out to be a disaster because everything the team tells her to do, she takes too literal.
Overall, this book is hilarious and young readers would truly enjoy it.
This book is perfect for young readers and great entertainment, I would certainly recommend it.
When everyone yells to run home, she scoops up all the bases and home plate to ensure a win, then speeds all the way to her kitchen for fresh cookies when her team mates arrive to celebrate.A daisy bedecked hat tops first a long-sleeve black dress on black tights and flat shoes; a big bow ties the frilly lace-edged white apron at the back.
Her hot pepper-red naval uniform with gold braid and scarlet purse brighten up every page -- hat still atop.
On the last page she changes back to apron maid uniform to bake another batch for the empty cookie jar.
I think you can't progress through reading development without reading Amelia Bedelia.
Imagine being 8 years old and having to use context to draw meaning out of words with five definitions, I imagine it's pretty frustrating, and Amelia provides a way to turn the frustration into humor and absurdity.
If you haven't seen, there is an online contest every year for kids to produce a ninety second Newbery video film festival - and a group of kids did this book (even thought it's not a Newbery, it's done in that style) It was great.
That lovable and easily-confused maid, Amelia Bedelia is back for another adventure in a Level 2 I Can Read Book.
Level 2 books are for children who are beginning to read on their own, but may still need help now and then.Although not as much of a rib-tickler as some of the Amelia Bedelia books, Play Ball, Amelia Bedelia, is still a fun book for children.
It is a great book for a read-aloud or for children to read on their own.Continue reading on Examiner.com Play Ball, Amelia Bedelia; book review 13 of the 365 Best Children's Books Ever - San Francisco fiction | Examiner.com http://www.examiner.com/fiction-in-sa...
I usually find Amelia Badelia books fun and entertaining to read, but this particular one was not as enjoyable as I imagined it to me.
The humor was pretty dry and the book did not explain the jokes and instead just moved the story right along, which I think would be confusing for younger students.
The story is pretty fast paced and moves right along.
I think that the pictures could be more text enriched and colorful to interest children.
Overall, I think that children would like this book but not as much as the other Amelia Bedelia books by Peggy Parish.
I loved the Amelia Bedilia books.
I've never laughed so hard while reading a book to my daughter.You know how when you read aloud and your eyes read ahead of what is actually coming out of your mouth, well half the time I was laughing so hard about something before I managed to read it out loud to my daughter.
She kept giving me weird looks until I finally managed to read it to her.
It's been quite a few years since I've read the books but I loved every Amelia Bedilia book and plan on getting ahold of them again soon so I can read them to my grand daughter.All the Amelia Bedilia books are highly recommended.
This Level 2 early reader featuring the literal Amelia Bedelia is illustrated by Wallace Tripp. These are different than the Amelia Bedelia images I am used to, but still fun and quirky just as is she. The short Amelia Bedelia adventure is good on community and great for a boy reader. This is another of the three books included in the Amelia Bedelia 50th Anniversary Collection. *Thanks to HarperCollins for providing a copy for review.*
Amelia Bedelia is back with her tendency to take everything literally! In this book, she actually steals bases and runs home when she's told to. You can imagine how that goes!I didn't understand some of the baseball terminology as a child, and I was confused as to why children would want an adult who didn't know how to play on their team at all, but it's still amusing--probably more so for kids who know baseball.
Oh, Amelia, you and your hijinks. I had a little trouble with this as a kid because I wasn't a baseball fan and I didn't know what the words meant any more than Amelia did in some cases, and I also didn't know why a bunch of kids would really want her to be on their team, but watching her misinterpret "stealing" a base and "running home" was pretty funny. These books do a good job highlighting what a bizarre language we have.
I've only read this book out of the series, but I can tell Amelia is not just funny in this book.Do you consider this book for a girl? Well, maybe not exactly. I liked this book and I definitely summarized the book easily. I not going to share on the review because1. I can't remember it or where it is.2. It would take forever to type.I also can't go onto to Word and do copy and paste because I wrote it by hand. Anyways, this is a really good book.
I love all of the Amelia Bedelia books and have ever since i first started reading them when i was younger. This one is one of my top picks because of its classic humor throughout the story. I always love how Amelia takes everything so literally and in this book, when she does it is just pure comedy. This book is easy for the reader to relate to and stay engaged because it is about baseball and that iterests this age group. This is a good read for 1-4th grade.
