https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/261497.Blood_on_the_Forge
Work all night on a drink of rum/Stack banana 'til de mornin' come/Come, mister tally man, tally me banana/Daylight come and me wan' go home/A beautiful bunch o' ripe banana/Hide the deadly black tarantula/Daylight come and me wan' go home.William Attaway co-wrote The Banana Boat Song and looking in the Calypso singer's eyes you might feel the resentment behind the smile and the maracas.
He wrote this novel, his last of just two, before Day-O.
There ain't no crab-apple trees squat in the hills, no more land to hoe in the red-hot sun -- white the same as black.
July 2012In Chapter 3 of the Book of Daniel, the Jews Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego were thrown into the furnace for refusing to worship King Nebuchadnezzar's golden idols, but an angel of the lord saved them from the flames.
In Blood on the Forge by William Attaway, the brothers Melody, Big Mat, and Chinatown leave their sharecropper's plot and go north to worship a new god of steel--but they throw themselves into the furnaces, and no angel can step in to save them from the inferno.Look at me, pretending I know what I'm talking about.

i really like this book, but i feel pretty conflicted about it too.
blood on the forge is a nasty, honest account of three black men who flee the racism and agrarian life of the south to work in a steel mill in chicago.
the characters feel pretty organic, and the novel does a nice job of rendering the multicultural world of mill-workers.
as honest as the novel's depictions of gang rape and domestic abuse appear to be (not that i have any real way of gauging what this world might really be like), attaway isn't sufficiently critical about them.
The text has difficulties with its representations of women (not really characters, just foils) and is too quick to accept male violence against women as a product of economic circumstance (it was written in 1941).
Finally, the text is unsatisfying -- the Moss brothers are exploited time and again, do not really arrive at any sort of political or experiential consciousness, and in turn exploit others, before meeting their fate.
The brothers are manipulated by all around them, and their experiences do not provide them with any sort of narrative that can be used to resist their exploitation.
The foundries of that era must have been as close to hell on earth as any mortal is likely to get! Three brothers escape the racism of sharecropping in the south for an equally brutal existence in a Pittsburgh foundry. Not a novel for the faint-hearted! Read Dec 2015
The story of the Moss Brothers, who come north from Kentucky to work in a hellish steel mill in the Alleghany, is a rare wonder which deserves to be rediscovered.
Attaway came from a well-to-do family and his life seems to have very little resembled that of his protagonists but reading this book you’d swear he had toiled away in a foundry.
There is an honest rawness here, not only in his intimate-seeming knowledge of the conditions of his character’s lives, but in the sort of even-handedness which few writers can offer about a foreign milieu.
The prose is potent, biblical almost, with Attaway working (successfully) to imbue the story with enormous, mythical force.
This was pretty bad. The characters were all awful. Like excessively awful. The women were crazy and were constantly beaten and raped. This was unbelievably depressing and bleak. Would not recommend to anyone.
Stunning.
I have a deep interest in Rust Belt literature and am surprised I overlooked this masterpiece.
But I think this novel will move anyone at any time.
The prose is beautiful and terse.
Southern Blacks migrating to the steel valley in the later twenties.
Brothers trying to survive.
Far surpasses Thomas Bell's, "Out Of This Furnace," in terms of literature, (rich prose that, unlike Bell's, succeeds with humor amidst the tragedy.
And where "Furnace" is long and drawn out, "Forge" is short, concise and rhapsodic).
Read in tandem, however, both novels provide an interesting comparison.
This is probably one of the worst books I've ever read. There is a practically negative amount of characterization, which caused me not to care at all about any of the characters. The plot was almost nonexistent, and the end offered nothing new to highlight the whole novel. Had I not had to read it for class, I wouldn't have finished it.
I'm torn on this. There's some good stuff in this book, particularly the sections on the racial strife around the unionization of the steel mill. However, it's really dragged down by its treatment of women, and its emphasis on masculinity. If I never read another book about men feeling humiliated by women and lashing out with violence, it'll be too soon.
Blood on the Forge  is the story of 3 African-American brothers who leave sharecropping in Kentucky to work in a steel mill in western Pennsylvania. We see the action through two of the brother’s experiences in clear and unornamented prose that nevertheless contains a hint of poetry, or perhaps, given one brother’s blues guitar playing, music. The action takes place over most of the year 1919, and historic themes of the Great Migration and the union movement and resistance to it are presented e
is the story of 3 African-American brothers who leave sharecropping in Kentucky to work in a steel mill in western Pennsylvania.
“Lots of colored fella leave job.
More pay for same job.”“Why didn’t I hear ‘bout this?” fumed Chinatown.Zanski looked hard at Chinatown before he spoke.
They get more pay for job because trouble comin’.” He leaned back behind the stove.Attaway’s Moss brothers are shown as an isolated trio, largely alienated even from their fellow African-Americans at the steel mill - Bo, the only African-American supervisor at the mill holds members of his race at arm’s length lest he be accused of favoritism - forming temporary bonds on the job with their shiftmates of varied ethnicity, bonds which are thin during off-hours and break completely when stressed by the pressure of unionization.
Blood on the Forge is one of the New York Review books - lost classics. It is that. A powerful story of three brothers who migrate from sharecropping to Pennsylvania steel mills. It is a brutal novel, unforgiving in its vision of the world. Attaway's language draws you into the noise of the mills, the constant pounding, beating, screaming, and violence.
Interesting take on the controversial themes surrounding "black rage"--the setting and characters were incredibly engaging, and the exploration of the three principle characters and their morals was intriguing to say the least.
Read this in college–loved it
Not so much redemption stories as they are "evil always wins" fables.
(I learned stuff.)I enjoyed that the brothers were so distinct, particularly the Big Mat's transformation from faithful straight edge to teen whore-beating corrupt police deputy.
Though I appreciated the relationship between Big Mat and Melody, the other characters melded together with the exception of bratty Anna.
The casual, constant violence against women was distracting and uncomfortable and the loose end of what happens to Big Mat's wife Hattie is never resolved, although maybe that's intentional.
A novel about three black brothers, who go from sharecropping in the south to working in a steel mill in the north. Outstanding as literature, but also as a comparison between these two modes of production. The only novel by Attaway, who is also famous for adapting "The Banana Boat Song" for Harry Belafonte.
It examines the many layers of complexity involving race relations and the labor movement. A hard read, because you know it isn't going to end well. There's no chance for it to, unless you created some pie-in-the-sky fantasy where everyone gets along and no one needs money. Powerful book.
An original, and horrifying, look at the experiences of black individuals during migration to the north in the post WWI era. There is realism to the prose, but it is tempered with touches of hallucinatory lunacy that proves Attaway was a deft stylist.
Very, very fascinating look into labor relations and racial tensions in pre-Depression America. Beyond the important historical and social implications, however, the characters and the plot were very moving. Great book.
Interesting story about exploitation of blacks and immigrants in early steel mills. And you think your job sucks?
somewhat predictable but the politics are good and it was a quick read.
I had to read this for a class. It's not a pleasant book but I liked Attaway's prose style and I thought the characters were interesting.
I thought it was well written and contrary to criticism, I didn't read it as overly political.
