https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/10037.No_Exit_and_Three_Other_Plays
Hell is not other people.
Hell is any holiday dinner with relatives.Fashionable in the 50s, and still required reading in prep schools and many colleges, Sartre's play - once ventilated - is a discursive product of Dada and Existentialism mixed with Kierkegaard, Nietzsche and a lot of Pernod.
-- other people.
With 3 characters, this play is a fav among college drama depts and many regional theatres.
The original Broadway production in 1946 was directed x John Huston and had, we're told, a superb set by the artist Frederick Kiesler.
But Sartre, the playwright  manque,  still lingers as he examines our loneliness in a bleak, disinterested world.
I am surprised no one said much about the piece "Dirty Hands" since it was terribly interesting and took up a great deal of this book.
Though I love No exit and think that the punch line was both clever and well developed I think that Dirty Hands was by far a more enjoyable work.
The deep political messages, the thoughts surrounding "purity of political ideals".
As someone who loves theater I think Dirty Hands would be excellent to reenact and depending on the gestures could be both moving and comical if well casted.
Garcin seeks understanding from Inez for deserting the army but only receives her judgment.
Estelle, who killed her newborn baby and caused her lover to commit suicide, seeks Garcin’s affection to define who she is, but only receives his snub.
They seek redemption through others but only receive condemnation.
Jean-Paul SartreThe most poignant moment in the play is when the door is opened, but Garcin doesn’t leave the room to escape his hell.
This is Sartre’s vision of the contemporary person, unable or perhaps unwilling to escape his hell for fear of taking on the responsibility of defining his own person.
Sartre has very good ideas.
Sartre depicts hell as a Second Empire style room in bad taste, not fire and torture devices.
I love this idea!!!
"Hell is other people" means that judgement is eternal punishment.
I found it very thought-provoking that Sartre's hell did not have any mirrors, because of the characters' existence.
The Flies is about Orestes and Electra.
Zeus is the god of death and flies, and I found that to be really funny, in a dark way.
This play is much longer than any of the others, but it is very well-written, and I kept reading with great interest.
--The Respectable Prostitute--Lucifer and the Lord--Huis Clos
(I read this in French, so forgive any factual errors that I missed as a reult of that) Everyone keeps asking, "Where's the torturer?" because they know they're in Hell and are going to suffer.
Et cependant, nous sommes en enfer...le bourreau, c'est chacun de nous pour les deux autres." Rough translation: "There's no phyisical torture, right?
However, we're in Hell...each of us is the torturer for the other two." An even rougher translation: "Hell is other people." ("L'enfer, c'est les autres.")At first, the other two resist this idea, and maintain that they can just ignore each other for the rest of eternity.
But I must say that I had a much lower opinion of the other plays in this collection; and the whiner in me can’t resist saying a few things about them, too.The Flies does not come close to the heights reached by No Exit, but I thought it still enjoyable.
(This, by the way, is the general problem with thinkers writing fiction—the endings are predictable once the thinkers' ideas are understood.) Sartre makes Orestes into an übermensch, who takes the full existential weight of the responsibility of his choices upon his shoulders, thus freeing himself from the externally imposed morality of Zeus.
In fact, Sartre's hell ultimately proves to offer an escape; it's the people who choose to continue their torment.
Pain and destruction might be the ultimate punishment for a Christian, but for Sartre's existentialist characters the judgment of “the other” is the greatest torture.
Estelle made a man die, Garcin tortured his wife, Inez seduced a woman and led her to her death.
Even in hell they need affirmation; Estelle believes that if Garcin loves her, then she can be happy and have power, for example.
In the Christian hell there is the rack and the poker to torture the sinner.
The three main characters are stripped bare of all their validations for their actions.I am 31 years old, and I have never felt the need to confess my sins so badly in my life.Love or hatred calls for self-surrender.from “The Flies” (87-88)It’s been a long time since I read the Oresteia, so long that “The Flies” may as well be new to me.
I’m well aware that my thoughts on these plays aren’t what other people think of them.
I'll start off by saying I rated this book before realizing we only read one of the plays in college.
Took me awhile to actually want to read the whole book.
shouldn't take you more than four days.I really liked the first two plays in this book.
I was going to give this book a four star review.However, the last two plays I didn't really care for, thus making this book a three star book.
Dirty Hands was somewhat interesting, but too damn long.
Plus, the last two plays felt too much like in-your-face politics.At least the first two in this are worth reading.
Sartre was marginally popular with some high school friends, particularly his novel, Nausea, and play, No Exit.
Years later, his Being and Nothingness was assigned--same attitude, but this time an obligation to complete the thing.Some time towards the end of high school I gave Sartre another chance.
I'd enjoyed Camus quite a bit and Camus was generally regarded as a lightweight compared to Sartre by respected older friends, so I picked up this collection of four plays and actually got through them all, one by one, over the course of a few days.
Of course, it does not account for why so much of his fiction is highly regarded by many others.
I only read "No Exit", as intended. An allegory for fascism? Must be there somewhere, but I don't get it. What I do see it as an allegory, I guess, or at least an illustration, for how we say we want to escape from the emotional torment of our decisions, preferring the physical torment of "racks and prongs and garrotes", but really we want to stay in that room, with our torment, because it makes us feel alive. In emotional masochism, there is no exit as satisfying as a locked door.
They are forced to face them and take responsibility for their actions.
Each has been consumed, in the conduct of their lives, by the selfish satisfaction of their needs, without regard for the pain those actions caused in there aftermath.When at the beginning, Garcin says to the valet: “So one has to live with one's eyes open all the time?”, my first thought was, so that is Hell, having to face oneself.
Hell is being placed in a situation where you have to face yourself through the eyes of other people, others who are relentless in their effort to expose and judge you, the very thing you avoided during your lifetime, the truth.
I wish I had years and years left of college so I could have fit in all the classes I could dream of.
If I did, I would have taken an course in existentialism.
Unfortunately it was only ever briefly touched on in one philosophy class, but the brief mention was enough to ignite an interest that I was free to pursue on my own.
The line "Hell is other people" might be one of my favorite mantras.Why I find it comforting I couldn't tell you...I'm still in the process of absorbing it and learning, but existentialism is something akin to religion to me.
I don't know what made me buy this book. It isn't like anything I'd ever want to read, so why the ridiculous curiosity? Well, I finished 'No Exit' and didn't feel like reading the three other plays (although I'm willing to wait some time and come back to it.) The whole thing felt like walking knee-deep in mud.
I had high expectations which he somehow succeeded.Also the collection is available for free online at; https://web.archive.org/web/201311260...No Exit.The book's titular play and one of Sartre's most famous.
It reads like an epic tragedy, but with plenty of humor and irony.Dirty HandsThe longest play in the collection and rightfully so.
While she starts off as a complex character, by the end she feels like a plot device.The Respectful ProstituteDefinitely the most interesting play in the collection.
A biting critique of American racism, 'The Respectful Prostitute' exposes politicians, police, and everyday folks in the role they (either intentionally or not) play in white supremacy.
This is a nice compilation of important plays by Sartre.No Exit is a nicely accessible work in which Sartre examines the nature of self identity.
The play ends on a wonderfully sour note, Orestes supposedly leading the flies out of Argos and on a new road of interminable suffering.
Indeed, the dual (or triple?) nature of human character to say one thing and yet do another seems to be important to this play.
Perhaps Sartre wanted to demonstrate that human values are always corruptible, perhaps he wanted to reveal the influence of money and political power.
Sartre is very much into ethical responsibility, and the prostitute in this play only wants to do the right thing.
In true essentialist fashion she is faced with an impossible situation which has no "good answer", and the end result is pretty depressing.Speaking of depressing, next up is Lucifer and the Lord.
I can understand why this play is very beloved by Sartre himself, but as a reader it's not very enjoyable.
The philosophical themes are there, but not pounded into your head like in Lucifer and the Lord.
More an illustration of Existentialist concepts than a true drama; still the one-act play about 2 women and a man in hell, coming to terms with their own lack of self concept, or their dependency on others for a sense of self is intellectually interesting (and very quick read).
And the fact that it takes place in hell, after the three main characters have died, strikes me as more parochial or puritanical than enlightening.
According to one line: "Hell is other people" but I don't buy it, because without the other people, no character would ever be honest about who they were.
I thought this book was really psychological and reminded me of a lot of things.
In the book 3 people were brought to this place where there was thing but them.
The theme of the book was to be yourself and not let anyone judge you.
People do not make who you are, you are yourself.
The 3 protagonists were unable to get pass people’s opinions so they were unable to leave.
The only reason someone would try to make him/herself look nice is for others to think they look nice.
Though I think this is wrong, it is hard to stop relying on other people’s views.
I was on the fence with this collection of plays.
I did like No Exit, that was my favourite; I would have given that one 5 out of 5 for sure.
I loved the depiction of hell, no physical torture, no flames, just being trapped in a room with two other disagreeable people for eternity, that would be torturous.
I didn't like Dirty Hands, it felt too pretentious and The Respectable Prostitute made me uncomfortable with that language used and the ending pissed me off, both of those plays were 2 out of 5 for me which let the whole collection down.
No Exit (Huis Clos) 4/5THE FLIES (Les Mouches) 4/5Dirty Hands (Les Mains sales) 4/5The Respectful Prostitute (La Putain respectueuse) 3.5/5

Liked No Exit. Didn’t like the others.
Only Read "No Exit".
Read this for school -
ESTE VALLE DE LÁGRIMAS...Sobre «Las moscas»1. Consideraciones previas Sartre plagió a Spinoza, se apropió de sus palabras y las presentó como suyas, sin atisbo alguno de vergüenza. No se sentía obligado a dar cuenta de dónde se inspiró porque no quería ser modesto. Reconocer abiertamente que varias de sus ideas no le pertenecían, hubiera afectado su fama de genio y de casanova... Así habría comenzado un artículo cualquier periodista. No hubiese mentido totalmente, pero sí habría torcido la verda
Esta sutil manipulación es el trasfondo de la obra de Sartre, donde el rey actual de Argos no solo asesinó a su predecesor, sino que, no contento con ello, se aseguró de que no hubiese oposición a su mandato promoviendo en sus súbditos un remordimiento que él mismo no sentía por el acto crucial que sólo era responsabilidad suya, y, por si esto fuera poco, instigando en su gente un miedo predominante a todos los muertos ya enterrados de la ciudad.
Can't say I enjoyed the first two plays in this collection, 'The respectable prostitute' and 'luciefer and the lord' at all, but the last play 'Huis Clos' was very good.
The ingenious set-up of 3 mismatched people in a stark room, offering no comfort or companionship, but only laying their respective trips on one another seemed to represent most of the relationships I had and saw around me--and I was only in my teens!
"Hell is other people" could have summed up my feeling about the human species into which I was born.
This is the "chatter" Heidegger refers to, the ambient noise of being Anyone who has enrolled in a creative writing workshop can relate to Sartre's bumper sticker observation.
I personally was in a satire group and read Don Quixote because I've always been masochistic when it's come to literature.
I was fascinated and had since then made it a point to read all four works.
This text was comprised of four plays No Exit,The Flies,Dirtsy Hands, and The Respectful Prostitute.
You have three people in a room: two women, Inez and Estelle, and one man, Garcin.
The room is Hell.
Hell is other people.
It was fascinating.The other plays were less so.
