https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/298275.Nausea
I put a longer review of this book / a journal entry that I wrote while I was reading it in "my writing" since it was too long for this page.6.9.07Nausea is not a good thing to have as the only thing that belongs to you, and even worse as the only thing that you belong to.
Sartre writes beautifully and describes the physical world in such incredible detail, that if you are a reader, and even more if you are a writer, you want to keep going and never put it down, but if you are not emotionally stable enough to handle the fact that you might have done nothing but existing, don't read this book.
Probably nobody should read this book.
I'll be here, sitting on the floor surrounded by cupcakes, ice cream and some twisted books, like an existentialist Bridget Jones, just contemplating my own ridiculous existence, thanks to you guys and your crude and insightful comments about life and its inevitable absurdity.
Especially if you feel like a giant failure that never lived, but existed (to live, one of the rarest thing in the world, according to another great writer).
And now, it's blossoming.""When you live alone you no longer know what it is to tell a story: the plausible disappears at the same time as the friends." (So simple and true.) "If I could keep myself from thinking!
I no longer knew where I was; I saw the colors spin slowly around me, I wanted to vomit." ---------- The entire novel is written in the form of a diary of one Antoine Roquentin, an unemployed historian living in the small fictional city of Bouville on the northern French coast in 1932.
Roquentin's Nausea (his capital) isn't occasional or a revulsion to anything specific, the smell of a certain room or being in the presence of a particular group of people; no, his Nausea is all pervasive: life in all of its various manifestations nauseates him.I recall a time back one muggy afternoon, age eighteen, sitting in a locker room, waiting to take the field for a practice session with the other players on the football team, forced to listen to a coach’s ravings, I suddenly felt repulsed and disgusted by everything and everybody around me.
Υπάρξεις χωρίς παρελθόν, χωρίς μέλλον, μέσα σε ένα παρόν που το διαπερνά η μεταφυσική θλίψη της διάλυσης «ΚΑΘΕ ΥΠΑΡΞΗ ΓΕΝΝΙΕΤΑΙ ΑΝΑΙΤΙΑ ΖΕΙ ΑΠΟ ΑΔΥΝΑΜΙΑ ΚΑΙΠΕΘΑΙΝΕΙ ΤΥΧΑΙΑ»Ο Αντουάν Ροκαντέν (συμβολικά κωμικό, σημαίνει ο γελοίος γέρος που παριστάνει τον νεαρό και έχει κάνει το δικό του γύρο του κόσμου)είναι ο πρωταγωνιστής του βιβλίου.
Ειρωνεία,μοναξιά, απόγνωση, θλίψη, σαρκασμός εμπεριέχονται ως βαθιά υποκειμενικές απόψεις.«Η Ναυτία» θριαμβεύει στην πειστική εκφραστικότητα που προσδίδει ο Σαρτρ στον πρωταγωνιστή του βιβλίου.Ο Αντουάν καταφέρνει να μεταφέρει με απόλυτα διαυγή γλώσσα τις ιδέες και τις σκέψεις που βρίσκονται πίσω απο τις απλές ερμηνείες, το πετυχαίνει τέλεια με τον αποκεφαλισμό της ύπαρξης του.
انگار داشتم زندگی خودم رو میخوندم.
نوشته های کتاب رو سطر به سطر زندگی کردم.
از همون شروع به خودم گفتم "عجب صحنه روشنی" "چقدر همه این نوشته ها زنده اس." بعضی از صفحه های کتاب اونقدر زیبا بود که برمیگشتم و دوباره و سه باره میخوندم.
توی بیشتر صفحه های کتاب یه خلاء و یه پوچی خاص وجود داشت که روح من رو جذب می کرد.
این کتاب دقیقا هیچ چیزی رو روایت نمیکنه بجز خود هیچ..
برای من اونقدر کتاب روشنی بود که انگار خودم همه سطر هاش رو نوشتم..
602. La Nausée = Nausea, Jean-Paul SartreNausea (French: La Nausée) is a philosophical novel by the existentialist philosopher Jean-Paul Sartre, published in 1938. It is Sartre's first novel and, in his opinion, one of his best works. Antoine Roquentin – The protagonist of the novel, Antoine is a former adventurer who has been living in Bouville for three years. Antoine does not keep in touch with family, and has no friends. He is a loner at heart and often likes to listen to other people's conv
La Nausée = Nausea, Jean-Paul SartreNausea (French: La Nausée) is a philosophical novel by the existentialist philosopher Jean-Paul Sartre, published in 1938.
His relationship with Françoise is mostly hygienic in nature, for the two hardly exchange words and, when invited by the Self-Taught Man to accompany him for lunch, he agrees only to write in his diary later that: "I had as much desire to eat with him as I had to hang myself." He can afford not to work, but spends a lot of his time writing a book about a French politician of the eighteenth century.
I think it is ugly because I have been told so." When he starts suffering from the Nausea he feels the need to talk to Anny, but when he finally does, it makes no difference to his condition.
چرا فلسفهها رو میریزی تو ادبیات؟ هاچرا فلسفهها رو میریزی تو ادبیات؟ هاچرا فلسفهها رو میریزی تو ادبیات؟ هاشُترگاوپَلنگ سارتر به اندازهی «کامو» نویسندهی خوبی نبود، در حد «مرلوپونتی» هم فیلسوف نبود، «هایدگر» هم آدم حسابش نکرد، به همین دلایل، به خودش گفت «اگزیستانسیالیست». به طور خلاصه، نویسندهای که فیلسوفبازی دربیاره، میشه اگزیستانسیالیست به چهار شرط: سیگار بکشی، فرانسوی باشی، در کافه بنویسی و سیگار بکشیلٰکن، به معنی دقیق کلمه «روشنفکر» بود. به عبارت واضحتر، روزنامهای داشت که_ با قصد تنبّه جوانان ا
الان که امپراتوری اگزیستانسیالیست‌ها گذشته، میشه گفت سارتر دیگه اهمیتی خاصی نداره؛ بی‌جا نیست اگه بدونید(مطابق جامعه‌ی آماریِ گودریدز) بیگانه، هشت برابر بیشتر از تهوع خونده شده؛ تهوع یک شکست‌خورده‌ستکرواتنتیجه‌ی فلسفیِ کتاب: زندگی در ذاتِ خود، پوچ و هیچ است و انسان خود معنا را در آن می‌آفریند کسی با ادبیات، دیگری با موسیقی اکنون تو به زندگی‌ات معنا و هدف بخشیدی.
در این مقام تفکر کامو رو بیشتر می‌پسندم: کسی که پوچی را بفهمه دیگه هیچ کاری نمی‌تونه بکنه.
به همین منوال، اگه خیلی‌ها چیزی از اگزیستانسیالیست‌ها نمی‌شنیدن، هرگز به پوچیِ هستی، رنجِ آزادی، تنهایی نوعِ بشر و...
Maybe it helped reading 'The Age of Reason' to finally grasp him, the fact I am a fan of Simone de Beauvoir should mean looking at Sartre in a better light, after all he took her under his wing during her creative days at university.
Jean-Paul Sartre who throughout the novel paints a portrait of a great bourgeois city of social caricature, and has gifts as a novelist that are too precise and too cruel not to result in great denunciations, not to completely open up into reality, a reality I would rather not see.A seminal work that I will come to appreciate even more over the space of time.
They should stock this thing in the bible section.
Or the adult erotica section, because either way it gives you some pretty intense experiences.In a nutshell: this book is kind of like an existentialist essay in the form of a diary.
Like, super intolerable.
Like, a soul-crushing, mind-blowing, nausea-inducing kind of intolerable.
It's pretty awesome.And the best thing - the  best.
I guess it's what Christians must feel like when they read the bible.
This is the kind of book you could read again and again, discovering some new detail every time, and getting something different out of it with every read.
Ogier P. ("the self-taught man") is the symbol of everything that has gone wrong with the socialization process. Nausea places us in a situation where we have to ask ourselves: is knowledge for the sake of knowledge a wise way to spend your life; or can you have knowledge of trivial facts (e.g. game shows) and know nothing about who you are - a life not examined because knowledge was more important.
If you live in Florida, lets say Ft. Lauderdale, don't read this book... especially when you're trying to pay the bills by working in a call center and you're aweful at telemarketing and you're roommate is weird and depressed and everyone around you is fake and plastic. That's my only warning. Otherwise, it's a great book.
Jean-Paul Sartre's version of "Rebel Without a Cause" and like James Dean, Sartre himself became an icon. Written in the late 30's, Sartre's study of a man who analyze his feelings, bearings on a world that makes him sick. This book has so much identity to it, that it is almost a brand name for 'youth.' There is nothing better then to be caught reading this novel by a pretty girl in a coffee house. Unless it's Starbucks, and then it is just... pointless.
i found this book at a salvation army when i was 17, i had no idea who sartre was, i just liked the description on the back and it sounded really depressing which i was into at the time.
in much the same way that i'm glad i didn't start listening to the smiths until i was out of highschool.
like i would have just taken it all too seriously before that point in time.
now i listen to the smiths to cheer myself up.
if you get that then you'll love this book.
زندگی در سطح به شکلی اتوماتیکی و بدون اراده در جریان است و در عمق تمام ذرات وجود برای فهمیدن "هستی" و ترس ناشی از "هست بودن" در حرکت و جنبش هستند.
و باز در عمق بیشتر تهوع اطرافم, مثل سپیده دمی محجوب."به باور سارتر و با تکیه بر مکتب اگزیستانسیالیسم, زندگی به خودی خود بی معناست و خارج از کنترل و اراده و این انسان است که به زندگی معنا میبخشد یا تصمیم میگرد که معنا ببخشد.
ولی من هنوز در شک هستم که راوی داستان که آدمی مرفه, سفر کرده و روشنفکر است با وجود تمام توانایی ها و قدرت تفکری که "هست" بودن را در نهایت برایش مشخص میکند به معنا بخشیدن این هستی باور داشته باشد.
Fear, anxiety, suffering, freedom, and self-deception― that's the human condition right there for you folks.Nothing matters.Life is meaningless. Life is pointless. Life is empty.I'm going to have to reread this again to fully wrap my head around it.
A través de sus ojos no somos más que apéndices del mundo sin ninguna función requerida para el curso natural del tiempo, y su incapacidad de encontrar significado conforma en sí mismo un calvario aparte en su sufrimiento.Pero este sentimiento de, quizá, redundancia, se agrava al caer en la cuenta de que su autoaborrecimiento no hace más que avivar la llama de su existencia.
Para él, las personas en los restaurantes que frecuentaba ignoran el absurdo de la existencia, son solo peones de la Nada que ríen por su desconocimiento.
An insufferable philosophical classic, penned in nauseating and styleless first person prose.
No attempt to create a novel has been made, apart from using that most lazy of constructs, the diary, opening the whole work out to a meandering thought-stream of excruciating random dullness.
It isn’t accessible to confused students, unless those students happen to be aesthetes on private incomes writing dull historical theses, who like lifeless tracts of flat and horrible prose and can tolerate being bashed over the head with dated postwar ideas.
The novel was never a useful medium for complex philosophical ideas, except perhaps Camus’s The Stranger, but that was under one hundred pages, and so tolerable.
A groundbreaking novel about the thunderous, dual irruption of being and facticity into a young man’s life.
Where truth lies now is in aporia!All is changed, changed UTTERLY -A Terrible Beauty is born!Such a predicament is plainly this young man’s fate.A similar thing happened to me when I was a college sophomore...It was pivotal in my development and in my choices as an adult.
I had to choose, and fast!It’s like George Santayana said: one day you wake up and realize “life’s not a spectacle - it’s a struggle.”Once you’re on that road, there’s no going back.
واقترح الناشر تعديلات وتغييرا للعنوان إلى «الغثيان».وهكذا ظهرت للوجود الرواية المؤسسة لشهرة جان بول سارتر، فحصدت النجاح الجماهيري المنقطع النظير !الغثيان ليس بالكتاب السهل القراءة لأنه يحوي فلسفة سارتر الوجودية وجاء ذلك متمثلا في شخصية بطل الرواية السيد أنطوان , تبدو الكتابة في المئة الأولى مملة وعبثية وحديث نفس لا رابط بين فقرة وأخرى , تضج بالتأمل في التفاصيل الصغيرة , التفكير الذي لا يتوقف عقل يكاد أن ينفجر , تشغله الأيادي , الحجارة المقذوفة في بركة ماء صورا في السقف , دوائر صلبان ,,الرؤى لا تتوقف ,يدخل مكتبة يتأمل في اللوحات يكتب تفاصيل الوجوه يحدثها هذا التأمل الذي شغل بطل الرواية أوصله لمرحلة من الغثيان ,الغثيان نتج عن الملل من عبثية الوجود الإنساني يتوقع أنطوان أن حل مشكلته لربما يكمن في الإلتقاء بصديقته آني لكن حين يجدها لا يجدها!فحالها لم يكن يختلف عنه كثيرا ,,يقول سارتر في رائعته الغثيان ما أشد ما أحسني بعيدا عنهم , من على هذه الرابية يخيّل إليّ أنني أنتمي إلى جنس آخر إنهم يخرجون من المكاتب بعد يوم عملهم , ينظرون إلى البيوت والحدائق نظرة راضية ويفكرون بأنها مدينتهم , مدينة برجوازية جميلة , إنهم غير خائفين , وهم يحسون بأنهم في بيوتهم !
یکی از شب های خوب زندگیم رو پای این کتاب گذاشتم. شبی که 1 فلاکس چای کنارم بود و تا صبح چای و تهوع!
It was a lot more amusing than I had expected.Adventures in Front of a Metaphysical Green ScreenThe novel (started in 1930, published in 1938) needs to be interpreted in the context of:* the philosophy of Husserl (as evaluated by Emmanuel Levinas and read by Sartre between 1930 and 1936), * Heidegger's 
In fact, all that I was able to grasp afterwards comes down to this fundamental absurdity...But I should like to establish the absolute character of this absurdity...I, a little while ago, experienced the absolute: the absolute or the absurd."What differs between people is the level of recognition of the absurd.The Contingency of ExistenceNausea is the recognition that humanity, the world and life are merely contingent, that they are superfluous, that they are not meant to exist, that there is no reason for them to exist."The essential thing is contingency.
این جهان برای کسی که می اندیشد، اضطراب و آشوب درونی بوجود خواهد آورد.درین دنیا تنها عقل و منطق حاکم نیست، بلکه به هیچ دردی نیز نمیخورد.گفته شده است ، در میان کتبی که سارتر به رشته ی تحریر درآورده، "استفراغ" از همه بیشتر پیچیدگی های فلسفی دارد.
حتی هنگامی که تصمیم میگیرد خودش را از بین ببرد میگوید : این خون من بر روی سنگ ها و استخوان های چون دندان سپید من بر اعماق خاک، چیزی است که تا ابدیت بی فایده خواهد ماند.
Listen, I'll tell you the meaning of life.1) Be nice2) have funThat's it.Neither of those things occur to Antoine Roquentin in this book, so instead he spends 100% of his time freaking right the fuck out.
"Every existing thing is born without reason, prolongs itself out of weakness and dies by chance," he says and by the way here's a super fun game for you single people: pick a quote from this book for your next Bumble date and see if you can say it and still get laid.
But I can't say that.The characters in this book that are the most interesting (and I’m going to use the word ‘character’ very loosely here) aren’t necessarily the ones you might think they are going to be when you start.
The character you might think ought to be more important than anyone here would be Anny – but although there are lots of lovely passages about her, I didn’t find them coming together as nearly as interesting as I had hoped they might.
موقع خوندن"تهوع" انتظار داشتم با کتابی مثل بیگانه و مسخ روبرو شم اما پوچی سارتر کاملا متفاوت با کامو
Sartrien's novels went a little fashion but Nausea remains for me one of the best novels of the twentieth century.
He accompanied me once and I will (surely) stopped to read it again.
It allows to identify, when we like the philosophy of Jean-Paul Sartre, a character who observes the world and who are disgusted, so it seems vain.
He's trying to make sense of his existence, to understand why he lives but it comes to a sad fact and without end.
It's not easy to read, it turns off and gives the cockroach, but it allows to put words to the pain of living that one can sometimes feel.
Deeply unsettling novel reflecting the hideous emptiness of our existence. "I want to leave, to go somewhere where I should be really in my place, where I would fit in . . . but my place is nowhere; I am unwanted.”
Sartre seems to have seized upon a common yet admittedly powerful experience - that peculiar sensation of sudden strangeness which can impose itself on otherwise familiar objects and concepts, accompanied by the simple striking fact of existence without explanation - and imbued this experiential phenomenon itself with a special profundity, from which he has extrapolated an entire philosophy.
His mind obsessively explores the repercussions of this extrapolation from the single, logically unsound point, and it is clear to the reader that this view of reality is simply not tenable with respect to ordinary experience.
«حيرت انگيزتر از هر حيرت انگيز، اين است كه هست ها هستند.»هایدگر«می دانی چقدر همه چیز وحشت انگیز است؟ وجودی که فکر می کند!
چطور زن های آبستن وحشت نمی کنند که در شکمشان چیزی حمل می کنند که ادراک می کند؟ چیز زنده باید بیشتر، هزاران هزار بار بیشتر وحشت انگیز باشد تا یک جسد.
می دانی اولین واکنش کودک کر مادرزاد که بعد از پنج سال درمان می شود و برای اولین بار می تواند بشنود چیست؟ از وحشت به گریه می افتد و مثل دیوانه ها گریه می کند.
The protagonist is a captive of loneliness and time.“This sun and blue sky were only a snare.
This is the hundredth time I've let myself be caught.
My memories are like coins in the devil's purse: when you open it you find only dead leaves.”For him there are no expectations and no changes in life… the world passes him by…“I can no longer distinguish present from future and yet it lasts, it happens little by little…”So the protagonist becomes nauseated with reality and his purposeless existence turns into a mental torment.
