https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/18431.The_Rule_of_Four
Princeton undergrads become obsessed with figuring out the riddles in a five hundred year old book, the Hypneratomachia.
It had puzzled researchers for hundreds of year, in particular the parents of two of the students.
The puzzling is interesting.
This contributed to a feeling of “who cares anyway?” Given that I often found myself reading at odd times, like while walking from one end of a subway platform to another, there must be something compelling about the book.
There is much payload on ancient learning, and the info about Savonarola and the conflict in Florence between the humanist intellectuals and the church is very interesting, I hesitate to give this a full thumbs up.
I just personally wasn't nearly as interested in these fairly generic characters going through fairly generic experiences at college as I was in the deciphering of a mysterious text.
The book reminds you of this left and right, to the extent that in the end you feel like half the reason this book exists is that the authors really wanted to brag about how great Princeton is and how great they are for having gone there.All in all, the book carried my through to the end, and the Da Vinci Code-like sequences in which the characters unraveled the text's mysteries were entertaining.
A Mr. Nelson DeMille writes on the back of this book that, "If Scott Fitzgerald, Umberto Eco, and Dan Brown teamed up to write a novel, the result would be The Rule of Four." I don't believe...I just can't...words fail me.
If you like to read stories about people sitting around in basements reading old dusty books, then perhaps you'll find it more exciting than I did.
I don't know why when I don't like a particular book, I still force myself to read it to the bitter end.
(с)Q:A son is the promise that time makes to a man, the guarantee every father receives that whatever he holds dear will someday be considered foolish, and that the person he loves best in the world will misunderstand him.
Like all things in the universe, we are destined from birth to diverge.
(c)Q:I'd begun to realize that there was an unspoken predjudice among book-learned people, a secret conviction they all seemed to share, that life as we know it is an imperfect vision of reality, and that only art, like a pair of reading glasses can correct it.
(c)Q:Time passed, worlds diverged.
(Nicolas Cage, incidentally, is himself a national—nay, international—treasure, as is that movie, and if you disagree with that sentiment, you are wrong, reprehensible, and probably a heartless zombie with an attachment disorder; I’m sorry to be the first to tell you that.))Suffice it to say, this is a book well worth picking up if you, like me, are the kind of dude, dudette, or duderette (we’ll use that term to encompass all aspects of gender fluidity in betwixt the male/female ends of the spectrum) who digs academic mysteries and geekish, scholarly heroes.
I strongly, strongly disliked this book.After I first finished reading it, I wondered if the reason I hated it was because it had been mismarketed as a Da Vinci Code analogue, and I do love me some sleuthing among historical artifacts.
I hated it because I disliked the pretentious characters.
But I don't need a coming-of-age novel masquerading as a mystery to tell me about the fun to be had in Ivy League New Jersey.
Maybe I missed something.
Maybe there actually was a gripping historical mystery that I could not see through all the orange and black.
Maybe I will never care enough to know.
Confession: This book was so dreadful that I was moved to create a new readometer especially for it.
Another confession, I never finished this book, it is unbelievably dull.
The whole thing seems to be filled with nonsensical name dropping of classical works, “look how clever we are that we have read this book or seen this artwork”.
How on earth this book is a best seller I don't know.
you know a book, a novel, a story, entertainment.
This book is incredibly creative; I love how Ian takes the Hypnerotomachia Poliphili and creates a compelling story built around history and detective work.
The story itself included just enough drama to not take away from the underlying teaching of the Hypnerotomachia Poliphili (I’m sorry, once I taught myself to say it once I can’t stop saying it now).
This ancient book cloaked in mystery is really what makes this story so good, I found myself doing Google searches on it trying to see the pictures and looking for the clues and trying to follow it as the characters in the story followed it.
I am mystified by the great reviews that this book got...for instance, i believe the nyt said "stunningly erudite," where i think what they meant was "pretentiously psuedointellectual", or, in more common terms, "dull".
my only way of understanding the reviews is to think that book reviewers enjoy the constant references to the tweedy eating clubs of princeton, which were likely the last place that they felt that they belonged...of course, my review MIGHT be colored a bit by my overwhelming disdain for all things princeton.
"The Da Vinci Code for people with brains." The Independent.
More like a book for anyone who passed English 101 freshman year of college.
At least the Da Vinci Code was a page-turner ...
an idiotic and predictable page-turner, but still entertaining.
In The Rule of Four, it takes 268 pages for two hours to pass.
The male protagonists are four college guys who drink wine (yeah right) and watch Audrey Hepburn movies (suuuuuure), and one is such a genius that he can easily translate a 15th century Genovese dialect into English ...
I think I once read a more poorly written book. Let me think for a minute.......hmm........er........uh....... No, I guess I was wrong. Many books may suck, but few can exceed this one for true crappiness.
It's a good engaging read, well written.
However, personal like or dislike seems to be much confused with the quality of the work itself.
I might not personally enjoy something and still be able to recognise and appreciate it as a work of good quality.
There is much to recommend the work, form its insight into Princeton University life to the illuminations on renaissance intellectual life.
If we look at the book, its story, the characters, from this more abstract perspective the story has much to offer indeed.
Still good, but not as potent as the rest.
I recalled reading a -- mostly positive -- review of the book when it came out, describing it as a Da Vinci Code-ish novel (although I haven't read The Da Vinci Code), an academic mystery / suspense set at Princeton University, written by two Princeton grads as a way to keep in touch after graduation (which I thought totally dorky, but maybe a little cute).
You know those guys that you went to college with, who were maybe a little too articulate for their own good and who were super-excited to be at "X" institution and could enumerate the reasons why, but only in the most intellectually superficial way?
The prose is elegant and witty, despite being billed in the "literary thriller" genre (think The Da Vinci Code).
The characters are rich, deep, and believable, especially Tom Sullivan, the narrator, on whom I think I have a wee crush.
His observations on the dangers of loving things that cannot love you back—in his case, books—have stayed with me since I first read this last summer.
The Rule of Four reads like a memoir, a careful blend of wit and nostalgia and keen observations, with just the right amount of panache and hope thrown in for good measure.
Instead of searching for and finding clues, Paul apparently had the brain capability of a theoretical physicist who merely had to think long and hard on something and voilà he figured it out!The majority of the book was spent listening to Tom philosophize on his and his roommates privileged lives at Princeton and whine over his relationship with his deceased father.
In my opinion, the summary was extremely misleading..."The Rule of Four takes us on an entertaining, illuminating tour of history—as it builds to a pinnacle of nearly unbearable suspense." No. Seriously.
The difference is that The Rule of Four has more character development, and less thriller action.
These were a pleasure to read and effectively added to the emotional rapport that the book built with me as a it’s reader.Still, there are no high-speed chase scenes, no pentacles crafted from human blood, and no secret meetings held in the Louvre’s restrooms.
This is not to say however that the book moved painfully slowly.
Buildings did explode, and lives were lost, but most importantly, the excitement that the characters experienced when solving the next great riddle was translated and delivered right to the reader with utmost skill.
I don't even think this should have been published. This was the biggest waste of time. The book focuses on a manuscript (you never really learn how to pronounce it, even with the pronunciation guide) that has secret clues hidden in it that are uraveled by some friends. It's stupid. The plot is terrible and just as you think the climax of the book is coming up, it ends. This is one of the few books I tell everyone to steer clear of. Totally worthless.
This treasure was published on the heels of The DaVinci Code- it was rushed out, and the editing and extremely poor writing style reflect this.
The books would have been interesting if it hadn't been for the name-dropping (it's set in Princeton, and they don't let you forget it), the fact that they explain each and every historical and literary reference to the reader, and having to wade through the story with four characters who you never really like.
Reading this book was a chore.
There was potential, but not enough to excuse the terrible writing and blatant condescension towards the reader.
Really badly written and poor - how on earth did this get published?
Before I reached the end, I'd researched the ending.
While I knew that the Hypnerotomachia Poliphili was central to the story, the jumping back and forth in time was odd at times and I couldn't grasp what I needed to care about this old book.Than I reached the end, I smiled not only at the actual ending, but in understanding.The confusion I felt was due to everything being shown from Tom's point of view, who spends almost all of the story being confused by his past and future colliding.
Overall, this book was less thriller, more bildungsroman, and I appreciated the character development that the authors included.
I'm not much for a page-turning thriller, and as I get a bit older I leave less and less of my time for books like this one.
I got the impression that the authors were trying to marry the puzzle of the Hypnerotomachia with the uncertainty that comes with leaving academia behind (or choosing to pursue it as a career) and beginning "real life." I'm not entirely certain that the attempt was a successful one.
Nearly as interesting as the book itself is the story of the two young authors,  Ian Caldwell and  Dustin Thomason, childhood friends and recent college graduates, who collaborated for years to write  The Rule of Four and endured several rejections before finding a publisher who took a shine to their manuscript.
In a Washington Post interview from May 2004, Thomason said "I don't know what it would be like to write alone." I rely on editors and proofreaders to help me shape my thoughts into prose that conveys its intended message, but I can't imagine dividing the nitty gritty task of writing with a partner.
I opened this book with a fair amount of enthuzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzz (blink) but, sadly, it wasn't lo
Nada del otro mundo. El típico ejemplo de: "No sé qué libro pedir a Círculo de Lectores. Pide éste que tiene buena pinta"Luego nunca tenían buena pinta por dentro.
I am becoming more and more baffled as to what it takes to become a New York Times Bestseller.
But basically:If you think books have too much show and not enough tell, if you're looking for a book with pages and pages of inconsequential back story, and most certainly, if you want to see how info dumping can be transformed into a art form, then by all means read this book!I mean, I'm glad two childhood best friends went to college and used their collective degrees to write a book together, but so much of this book was unnecessary to read (there's a reason it's called back story.
Originally posted on my blog. Let's get something out of the way: The Rule of Four by Justin Thomason and Ian Caldwell is pretty much a paint-by-numbers affair as far as intellectual thrillers are concerned. There is, of course, an extremely obscure historical text called the  Hypnerotomachia Poliphili  that apparently has an arcane code within it, revealing an earth-shaking truth that may rewrite history. There is an obsessive soul, a senior in Princeton named Paul, who becomes so consumed by
There is a narrator named Tom who has already watched is his father be consumed by the Hypnerotomachia until his death and is now watching helplessly as the same thing happens to his best friend.There are also deaths, because people who write their thesis on 15th Century Italian manuscripts live life on the edge.But for some reason, reading this book pushed so many pleasure centers in my brain in ways that made me forgive the banal writing and even the weird tonal shifts that it takes.
In fact, I'd have to go ahead and disagree with the statement from the publisher: "a brilliant work of fiction that weaves together suspense and scholarship, high art and unimaginable treachery." It was a mystery, yes.
It incorporated scholarship, yes.
It wasn't really that suspenseful, though.
I thought the story actually moved rather slowly.
I thought the students were acting like grad students when it came to academics and adolescents when it came to their personal lives.
Also, I thought the ending was a bit trite.In summary, it's not a bad read, but make sure you go into it with low expectations.
Touted as a "coming-of-age" DaVinci code, this story of 4 Princeton roommates and their obsession with and struggles to decode a medieval text with major historic ramifications got a bit tedious for me. The complex codes and various ways medieval writers used them was interesting (if indeed they did, haven't researched that part) but I found myself saying more than once, "Who cares?! Just stop stringing me along!"
Plus, it was pretentious and had completely unnecessary flashbacks to the narrator's childhood that were supposed to "illustrate" the theme/point/whatever of that chapter.
His mother, in all seriousness, sits him down to talk about how this behavior makes her worried that he does in fact value gold more than friendship and to make sure he understands that people are worth more than objects because oh my god young narrator might become the scholarly obssessive that his father is oh noes!
More likely, it is in fact a badly written attempt to shoe-horn the chapter's theme into a flashback.
All these flashbacks, which in fact just boil down to My-Father-Was-Obssessed-With-This-Book-And-It-May-Be-Killed-Him-I-Don't-Want-To-Be-Like-Him-Do-You-Get-It-Now?-Huh?-HUH?
I enjoyed this book immensely.
The Rule of Four came out around the same time as when the Da Vinci Code was a big deal, and other authors were jumping on the suspense/ historical fiction bandwagon.
This was one of those books on that bandwagon.
Tom Sullivan and Paul Harris are friends that have ties to a 500 year-old Renaissance book they are researching.
The research is followed by many surprises, clues, solutions, relationship conflicts, stress, and murder.
There are many twists and turns followed by a goog wrap-up at the end of the story.
Rule of Four rocks!
