https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/4912._Tis_A_Memoir
Reason: I wanted to let the cute and innocent boy Frank and his brothers Malachy, Michael and Alphie to stay as long as possible in my mind.
In fact, when Frank McCourt (1930-2009) died two years ago (July 19, 2009), I did not want to hear about it.
One of my first friends Charles was reading these and he liked ’Tis so much that he also (same as his rating for Angela's)gave it a 5-star rating.
Now, I can face Charles and say that I’ve read the book and we can talk about it.
Whereas Angela's Ashes was a story of Frank McCourt fighting the odds and dangers of growing up in a Limerick slum and trying to escape, this book is about Frank McCourt fighting with himself and occasionally American society.
Frank had a tough life even in America, and while the book is occasionally humorous, it is sad to see the way drinking contributes to a lot of his problems and the growing gulf between him and his mother.
McCourt's sparse writing style, while refreshing, only makes these problems seem worse.
In Angela's Ashes, McCourt left Ireland in triumph, as a victim turned hero, while in 'Tis he is half victim, half villain.
After reading Angela's Ashes I was glad to know author Frank McCourt had also written a sequel. I felt after reading Ashes, I needed closure. I wanted to know how Frank fared as a young adult when he arrived in New York as an Irish immigrant in 1949 and if the rest of the McCourt family followed in his footsteps. 'Tis had all the answers I was seeking with such an amazing writing style of "aching sadness and desperate humor." 5 Stars !
Довольно позорно порыдала в самолёте, испугав простодушных грузинских тётушек.Две великие книги про загадочную ирландскую душу.A must read.
علاوه بر این جاهایی هم به خاطر این نوشتار یکنواخت و ساده ، روند ماجرا خسته کننده میشهیکی دیگه از ضعف های کتاب به نظرم ناتوانی نویسنده در برجسته کردن اتفاقات مهم و جداکردن جزئیات از اونهاست.
به نظرم بهتر بود خیلی از مکالمات و اتفاقات جزیی از روایت نویسنده حذف میشد تا هم توجه و تمرکز خواننده بیشتر جذب بشه و هم از خسته کنندگی بعضی قسمت ها کم بشه حجم بالایی از جلد دوم به ماجراهای نویسنده از زمان رسیدنش به امریکا تا معلم شدن و سپس ازدواجش اختصاص داره .
While not as dear to my heart as the first, I think this story is moving and the voice is, as always, unique.
That said, this story is a much more familiar one than the last: Irish immigrant trying to make a life for himself in a new world, and a war-enraged America.
That's magic.This is the continued story of Frank McCourt (see Angela's Ashes) and we pick up upon his arrival in America.
McCourt's voice too is nothing short of poetry throughout:"We said a Hail Mary and it wasn't enough.
Frank is a master storyteller and I suspect teller of tall tales, but that doesn't make them any the less entertaining.The sadness continues when his father who swears he has given up the drink arrives from Ireland, he is taken off the boat in restraints, blind drunk.His mother, Angela, is lonely in America, and she irritates Frank, even though he knows how much he owes her.His brothers are falling prey to drink, and the cycle of alcoholism continues.I suppose it's the story all families go through: kids grow up, parents become a burden: kids have kids and it begins again.At the end of Bob Geldof's autobiography, he is standing outside Wembley late at night after the Live Aid concert, when a man says to him "Is that it?"And as Frank McCourt would say "'Tis."I will read the final volume of memoirs "Teaching Man" but I expect it to be more of the same.
Ci sono giornate eccezionali in cui la discussione di una poesia apre la porta a una luce bianca abbagliante e tutti capiscono i versi e capiscono di aver capito e quando la luce si smorza ci sorridiamo come viaggiatori al ritorno da un'avventura.
C'è sempre la sua arguzia: scorre come una linfa nascosta agli occhi dell'interlocutore ma sulla pagina sfocia in riflessioni esilaranti.
Forse questa è una delle caratteristiche che più amo della sua prosa: il saper raccontare gli altri come se raccontasse se stesso.
E quando la luce si smorza ci sorridiamo come viaggiatori al ritorno da un'avventura.
Be warned up front, if you are not comfortable hearing swearing, then this is NOT the book for you.That having been said, listening to McCourt read, I caught the poetic, lyrical, stream of consciousness attributes that I knew were present in Angela's Ashes, but hearing the cadence, the lilting roll and flow of the language; there are parts of this book that come close to poetry.
It is the embellishment, the thinking out loud and the dancing around in what becomes a farily discernible pattern by the end of the book to where, it "almost" becomes a little tedious, although this is faint criticism when weighed against the overall impact of the book.A very entertaining listen and read!
I enjoyed this sequel to "Angela's Ashes", because of Frank McCourt's ability to recollect dialogue, and his way of writing the words so well that you can just HEAR the Irish accent while you read.
I struggled with him drinking too much & repeatedly visiting the Irish pubs, especially after growing up WITHOUT his alcoholic father who couldn't prioritize his wife & children ahead of his addiction for drink & abandoned them all to poverty & a life of misery.
I couldn't help but think Frank was possibly self sabotaging his life & relationships.
I was really able to connect to McCourt in this book more than the first, Angela's Ashes because this story took place in New York, and in my neighborhood.
What really kept the story interesting for me is how descriptive McCourt is in his writing, mentioning specific neighborhoods, bars, schools which allowed me to really connect to this book especially since I live in New York.
Overall, this is an amazing book that I believe every one can learn life lessons from and find some sort of connection with McCourt.
Couple of points here:McCourt's story is mesmerizing.
Knowing what he knows about the dangers and pitfalls of alcohol, why the hell does he touch the stuff?
He never touches on the point of alcoholism in families and how his father's drinking did or did not directly affect him.
At one point he was 29 and graduating from college.
McCourt constantly harps on random people in his life complaining about mundane things.
Or he complains about high school kids being obnoxious and unruly.
McCourt's pretty screwed up, or so it shows in his memoirs.
'Tis relates Frank McCourt's life in New York from the 1950's until his Mother's death in New York and his father's death and burial in Belfast in 1985.
Frank McCourt himself read the audio-book edition of 'Tis. This book, however, needed editing to move the story along more smoothly.
I admire Frank's rise from abject poverty in Ireland to his college degree from NYU, his teaching career at Stuyvesant High School in Brooklyn, his home in Brooklyn, and his publishing of several well-regarded books, but this book could have been better.
Frank McCourt could write about paint drying and I would 100% read it. He’s just brilliant.
This book would get five stars, except that it isn't -quite- as great as Angela's Ashes, which makes it seem a bit disappointing.
In comparison to that book, it is also somewhat less inspiring, in the sense that AA tells a story of perseverance over hardship as Frank survives all by carrying his dream of going to America through times of crushing poverty.
He did not include me as a character in this book (although he mentioned some of my classmates), which disappointed me at the time, but actually may be a good thing in retrospect.

Tras ese maravilloso libro que es Las cenizas de Angela, va el autor y perpetra este pestiño aburrido hasta decir basta. Lo antirecomiendo.
This is the second of Frank McCourt’s trilogy of memoirs, but I read them out of order, so it’s the last for me. It has some of the childhood reminiscences of  Angela's Ashes  and even more of the teaching remembrances of Teacher Man, but mostly it’s about Frank’s journey from blue collar autodidact to college-educated professional. There’s also a bit about how he repeated his father’s mistakes and destroyed his marriage by drinking too much. For those parts, I was thinking, “No, Frank, no!” so
This is the second of Frank McCourt’s trilogy of memoirs, but I read them out of order, so it’s the last for me.
and even more of the teaching remembrances of Teacher Man, but mostly it’s about Frank’s journey from blue collar autodidact to college-educated professional.
For those parts, I was thinking, “No, Frank, no!” so I can only imagine how painful it must have been for him to write about.
Even still, Frank McCourt’s voice is so poignant and funny, I can’t give him anything less than 5 stars.
If you loved Angela's Ashes, read the next two books.
Frank McCourt is awesome no matter what he writes.
Frank McCourt's first book, Angela's Ashes, was incredible in its descriptions of an unbelievable poverty experienced within living memory in a Western European country.
The fact that he could become a teacher at all, having never gone to high school in Ireland himself, is both proof of 'the American dream' and a sad indictment on the American education system of the time, especially considering McCourt's extreme poverty when starting out as a teacher, unable to pay his way in life and certainly unable to save.On the whole, I enjoyed this book, although I never warmed to the author himself.
I was hoping to read accounts of students who came back professing what a difference he had made in their lives.
And, sometimes life is nothing but hard work.The most endearing part of the book: Frank's vantage point of his adult students when he teaches community college, and those same students gratitude towards himWould have gladly read more about: all the crazy "characters" he comes into contact with (i.e.-the elderly Italian with the loud tie collection and rare book who wills money to Frank & with which Frank buys his first house)Overall: This book is more disjointed than Angela's Ashes & I was expecting to see Frank GROW, yet sadly did not...in some ways, he's repeating the life of his alcoholic, dead-beat dad in this sequel.
Frank McCourt burst on the literary scene with his memoir  Angela’s Ashes , which outlined his childhood lived in abject poverty in Limerick Ireland. This book picks up where that one left off. He begins by recounting some of the overseas voyage, befriended by a priest who encourages him to talk to the “wealthy Protestants from Kentucky,” and who is dismayed when McCourt’s embarrassment over his teeth, his eyes, his clothing, keeps him from asserting himself. But although nothing is as he expect
He begins by recounting some of the overseas voyage, befriended by a priest who encourages him to talk to the “wealthy Protestants from Kentucky,” and who is dismayed when McCourt’s embarrassment over his teeth, his eyes, his clothing, keeps him from asserting himself.
It’s slow going and the reader begins to wonder if he’ll ever get out of the slums and get his eyes and teeth fixed (though we obviously know he will, because he wrote these books, after all).
And the love of a classic American blonde beauty makes his dream of a clean job, a clean wife, a clean house and clean children seem finally within his grasp.McCourt has a way with language.
Quite some time ago I reviewed McCourt's first autobiography, Angela's Ashes.
'Tis is the second book which picks up as Frank is sailing from Ireland to America, where he expects to see everyone has a tan and beautiful white teeth, i.e. the Hollywood version.
He had read classic literature that most American youth would disdain.
The book ends as the McCourt sons and their children take Angela's ashes back to Limerick.I raved about the first book.
I laughed my head off reading parts of it and other parts tore my heart out.
The adult Frank McCourt, though, isn't such a sympathetic character.
I guess we all know that Frank McCourt's life turned out pretty well, being a published prizewinning author and all that.
But if we didn't know how his story ends, we would be left with the fact that he was a pretty sorry soul who was forever not saying what he wanted to say and forever following in his father's drunken footsteps.
Angela's Ashes was lovely storytelling artfully accomplished through the eyes of a boy.
But 'Tis had nothing that special going for it.
'Tis was made blurry though the "bad eyes" of an alcoholic.
'Twas a disappointment for this McCourt fan.
A memorable read, an Irishman in New York.
This is a sequel to Angela's Ashes.
The start is one of the McCourt's eldest brother, coming into New York across the Atlantic to start a new life at the Big Apple.
We are introduced to Irish culture in another land, the heartaches of work, the odd jobs to make ends meets, the bedsits, the education, marriage, and finally death.
We are introduced to books, authors, to the teaching profession and the pupils who are fed up with studying stuff they don't understand.
You have to read to appreciate the sense of humour and life.
Pales in comparison to its prequel Angela's Ashes, which is heart-wrenching and brilliant.
Così, il 15 di Aprile, emozionatissima, ho acquistato 'Che paese, l'America' e 'Ehi, prof!', sperando di ritrovarti sincero, timido e maldestro come ti avevo lasciato quando ti sei imbarcato su la Quercia d'Irlanda che ti avrebbe portato a New York, la città dei tuoi sogni; ti ho lasciato che speravi di arrivare in America ed iniziare una nuova vita per dimenticare la merda dei bassifondi di Limerick, per dimenticare la tua infelice infanzia cattolica e irlandese con un padre che spendeva la paga in bevute, e una madre disperata che doveva far l'elemosina per crescere te e i tuoi tre fratelli.L'America, il paese della possibilità, dove chiunque può inventarsi un lavoro e reinventarsi, il paese che ti guardava male perché eri un americano, certo, fornito di visto e tutto il resto che la burocrazia ti imponeva, ma eri un irlandese trattino americano.
Meh. Angela's Ashes was wonderful, lots of history mixed in with the memoir, and so emotionally engaging.
This one was a lot more memoir and not so much history, and far too much detail about his sex life and frequent masturbation (though he does, amusingly, refer to the latter as "interfering with himself").
When these essays turn out to have been written by the kids' parents, uncles, cousins, etc., McCourt sets them to copying the decaying pages so they won't be lost--and connects the project to them by pointing out that their children might someday want to read about their lives.
I think the previous book leaves the reader with him getting on a boat to America.
And he's still on that boat when the second book starts.
It is more about how he made his way in America.
Went into the Army (not by choice).
And he went to school.
But he got educated and became a teacher.The first book was about his boyhood and his mother doing whatever she had to do to get by.
This one is about his real coming of age and learning that there are other things that can be done.
As was the case with Angela's Ashes, I constantly had to remind myself this was not fiction.
Actually, I would remind myself that this was not fiction, then ask myself,"but how the hell does a single person in a single lifetime collect so many lunatics?" Then I would laugh out loud.
In my mind, Tis and Angela's Ashes are one book so I will skip the comparisons.
After the misery of Limerick, I had the romantic notion that Frank would roll his sleeves up, polish off his brains, work hard, walk the thin and narrow, and attain the American dream.
I have several books currently reading and a ton in the "to be read" pile but couldn't wait. Started this last night. Enthralled.Really enjoyed this book. I felt the first half of the book better than the last. Although his teaching experiences were a delight to read. The differences he felt between growing up in Ireland and then the apparent wealth in America - I'm sure relates to a lot of immigrants. I found the book useful for tracking down inherited feelings of a particular kind, the inbred Irish thoughts of not being good enough.
