https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/412935.Secret_Fire
Yet I love this book.I did not agree with what Dimitri did to Katherine.
Katherine's heart softens towards Dimitri and she falls in love with him.
Katherine doesn't really lose the desire to go home, despite falling in love with Dimitri.
She'll enjoy her time with him until the ports unfreeze and she can go back home.Okay why did I like this book so much?
So I grudgingly decided that it was okay for him to have Katherine, as long as he married her and made her a very happy woman for the rest of her life.Well, I don't know if I have clearly explained why I like this book so much.
While most Johanna Lindsey books are the same, with the same snooty heroine being abducted and tied up by the same witless hero. This book is at the top of my list for most hated. That’s because the two main characters are just two obnoxious bunholes. Seriously, I wanted Godzilla to show up and eat them.
Revised rating to 2 stars..Many friends suggest me to read this book.
They said this book is good.But after read it, I feel...
tired :(This book tortured me a lot, both physically and mentally.Never get so emotional when read before.I don't get about the captivate things (and rape, yes what Dimitri do to Katherine is rape).
For Dimitri, even though he's Alpha, he's not my favorite hero :(.
I dunno if I will read another Johanna Lindsey's book, because of this book (with all captive and abused things).
But I'll give a try ^^Revised : Will never read her books.
I hated this book.
Hated it.
I lose interest in it when the heroine is abducted, threatened, drugged and then basically raped by the hero.
All because he thinks shes just a maid.How nice.He calls it "helping" because she in pain and she basically gives in.
He coldly thinks of giving her to his footmen to "help" her.
Oh how thoughtfulI started skimming through it in disgust as the heroine was abducted, now to Russia, and then this quote by the heroine- "Blast you Dmitri, dont be such a gentleman.Listen to my body, not my words.
Take me"wtf?!
Disgusting
Estoy entre darle un 3.5 o un 4, no estoy segura. La historia es bonita y me ha enganchado, pero me ha faltado quizá más profundidad y más desarrollo en el personaje de Dimitri y en algunas escenas fundamentales de los últimos capítulos. Por todo eso, Fuego Secreto se ha quedado en una novela entretenida y amena, poca más. Podría haber sido mucho mejor.
Nothing beats these old Johanna Lindsey classics.
I wish she still wrote books like this and her other earlier works.
Although, I didn't really care for the drugging but all in all still a good read.
I love a good pregnancy and secret baby theme.
I forgot how sweet the ending was with Dimitri hunting everywhere for Katherine (although, I love that he calls her Katya).
I do think Katherine was a bit abrasive at times.
I didn't notice it so much as a young teenager reading this book.
Glad I read this again.
Stayed up until about midnight to finish it.
None of you are ever allowed to read this book, but oh my god, is it fantastic. To borrow terminology from SBTB, it is the oldest of Old Skool romances, complete with a forced seduction via aphrodisiac, a kidnapping to Russia, the heroine being forced to work as the hero's sister's maid when she refuses to be his mistress, a second round of the aphrodisiac, a caning, and a secret love child. It is TERRIBLE. It is GREAT.And really, none of you are ever allowed to read it.
Read this EONS ago... I don't remember much other than the heroine is given a drug to make her horny and the "hero" has to help her through it. Wasn't that nice of him. *rolls eyes* LOL
Bu yorum aynı zamanda Romancekolikte yayınlanmıştır.Öncelikle kitabı bana öneren İpek ablama çok teşekkür ederim. Johanna çok sevdiğim bir yazar. Bu kitabında da beni yanıltmadı ve sayfaları hızlıca çevirdiğim harika ve heyecanlı bir okuma süreci geçirdim. Kimi zaman ağlamamak için kendimi zor tuttum kimi zaman ise karakterlerimizin atışmaları yüzünden kahkahalar attım. Sinirden patlayacak dereceye gelip yeter ama uzattın diye sıkıldığım yerlerde olmadı değil! Bir çoğu kızımızın haklı şekilde o
Dimitri'nin isteme hatasına düştüğü kadın aynı zamanda.
Aynı zamanda kızımızı ona çalışanlarında karşısında karşı çıktığı için değnekle vurdurulmasını sağlayan ve bunun karşılığında biz zavallı okurların isteklerine rağmen hiç bir ceza almayan zülmeden kadın.
Anastacia; Dimitri'nin İngiltereye gelmesine sebep olan şımarık prenses kız kardeşi.
Hikaye kontu kızı olan Katherine'nin, kız kardeşinin nişanlısıyla kaçacağından şüphelenip, onu hizmetçi kılığında takip edip, yabancı bir adam tarafından ahlaksız teklifi ret ettiği için kaçırılması ile başlıyor.
Kızı düşük seviyeden bir kadın sanıyordur.
Ertesi sabah kızın uyanmasıyla tehditlerde başlar ve Dimitri Rus Prenslerinden biri yazın İngiltereyi ziyaret edeceği için Rusların ismine herhangi bir leke gelmesini istemiyordur.
When he finally figures out that she's told him the truth all along about who she is (because God knows he's the kind of man to fall in "love" with a woman when he doesn't even think he knows her true name and doesn't trust her), then she's good enough to marry.
/spoiler When are romance writers going to write about women with some sense of self esteem, some backbone, some real spirit, instead of just saying they are strong women and then showing them wilt like hot lettuce the first time the guy breathes on them?
I was shocked by how many similarities there were between the two books.In fact the theme/plot of the story follows in this order:1.
Guy keeps girl as his lover/mistress7.
Guy decides he has some honor oh he can kidnap a girl without worrying about his honor but rape is out of the question9.
Guy decides to seduce girl10.
There's a climax/conflict in which girl gets jealous of some old flame or the likes and decides to run away back home12.
Girl gives birth to a SON who looks EXACTLY like guy13.
It's nothing less than a fairy tale.I just loved this book immensely.
Throughout the novel i have been spell bound by his charms,he could have raped katherine or could have seduced her into his bed or could have lured her but he did'nt ofcourse.
The book was a roller coaster ride of emotions,and the way Dimitri and Katherine fought was humorous and i could'nt stop smiling.
This book is the perfect recipe for a passionate love story as it contains all the ingredients to make it a remarkable romance novel.
Buddy read with MaruLindsey does some of the best bodice rippers.
This is one of my favorite books, and a comfort read, although some might find it a little old fashioned.
It's a Cinderella like story, with a prince, palaces and a midnight ball, and even an evil aunt ( instead of the wicked stepmother).Spoilers ahead!I think that my favorite character is Kate.
A third character in the book is actually Russia.
It's full of adventure, some hot sex, and a fairytale air that makes me think I'm reading Cinderella for adults.
There are lots of books in my shelf which are on hold or unrated.
This is one of these books which was DNF.
I had many problems with the book.
(view spoiler)[1) Dimitri (the H) was a jerk.
3) Katherine (the h) not telling Dimitri about his child.
Fine that she is not beautiful but every other person who meets her is like 'ohh...what does Dimitri found so attractive about her?' Ugh....
I liked Dimitri and Katherine together.
And I liked Katherine.
So despite lots of crazy bits and over the top stupidity I liked it.
The heroine is drugged (without the hero's sayso, because that somehow makes it better?) with an aphrodisiac that, of course, makes her hot n' horny.
(This is not to mention the second time she's drugged ON HIS ORDERS because she refused to sleep with him again.
After being raped, kidnapped, physically and mentally abused by his domineering aunt, the heroine is finally able to return home and mope about never seeing him again, with the added bonus of bearing his child.
A master piece as usual ...
Lindsey is just the best though as usual you have to go through rape and hate we can add up a lot of anger resentment ....
wow  when the feelings in the book go through you it means the book is a brilliant even if I hated the book after finishing it,but the author made me connect with the book ( as usual) the heroine anger was my anger and her pain with mine .....
I love historical romances and this one is over the top. Demetri makes some really bad decisions and you are left to wonder how in the world Katheryn will ever forgive him for what happens to her. At one point, I was reading with my mouth hanging open in "oh my gosh I can't believe this" fashion. I don't know if I could have gotten past it, but Katheryn is not stupid or naive and she gives him a run for his money. Excellant book.....one of Johanna Lindsey's best!!!
I have read this book close to a hundred times...ITS one of her BEST!!!!! For some reason I can never go to long without reading this novel. Honestly I don't know why, but I could guess its because of the amazing attraction and passion between the two main characters right from the start. If I ever had to pick one Johanna Lindsey book to keep with me for all time it will be this one!!
at some point it's always easy to guess the ending, but it's the twists, the word games and clever arguments that make it unexpected and beautiful.
Even though her father is the Earl, she takes care of everyone and everything at home.
When she finds out that her sister plans on eloping with a fortune hunter, she dresses in a maid uniform and goes chasing after her, not knowing what would befall her and take her away from all that she loves.
Prince Dimitri spies Lady Kathrine on the street and at once he knows that he wants her.
I wish she still wrote books like this and her other earlier works.
EVERTHELESS, I really, really liked this book.
hmmmmmmmmmm mo dibilangin suka nih novel yg bete bacanya tapi mo dibilang ga suka tapi kok ya kubaca terusbingung khan???
:pLady Katherine St. John, yg diam2 mengikuti adiknya dengan berpakaian pelayan & tanpa dikawal siapapun diculik oleh seorang russian prince dimitri & langsung dijadikan tawanan hingga dibawa ke rusia.dimitri yg mengganggap katherine hanya wanita biasa tidak mau melepaskan katherine & menjadikan katherine wanita simpanannya.
5+ stars!!Oh boy, did I love this book.
I loved Katherine for her strength.
Even when she was so in love with Dimitri, she remained strong and true to herself.
He thought he was a god and that he was always right and never in the wrong.
He also always thought he was the wronged one even though HE was the one who made Katherine endure so much.
He was such a flawed character who was only right when he had Katherine with him.
This book was awful.The guy kidnaps the chick and his servants drug her so that she will sleep with him.
At this point he runs away because he feels bad for drugging her *isn't that nice* and she gets beaten by his aunt.
So he finds out that she is really a Lady not the servant he thought and decides to marry her *again wow* but she doesn't want him to marry her just because he feels like he needs to so she runs away to England.
Prince Dimitri spies Lady Kathrine on the street and at once he knows that he wants her.
However Kathrine is dressed in her servant's clothes and is mistaken for just that if not a whore.
But the Princes word is law and if Kathrine wont be bought then Dimitri's servant is determined to give him what he want's even if that leads to kidnapping.
I'm thinking that I'll be reading this one again, a bit softer than the normal bodice rippers of the 80's but at least the lead female isn't some naive whiny brat!
Erm......
so I really have no excuse for enjoying this book, but that is exactly what I did: enjoy the heck out of it.
I mean, its premise and the actions of the hero are all really rather offensive.
He has her abducted and force-fed an aphrodisiac so she would sleep with him even though she very vocally unwilling - it's kidnapping and date-rape, really, if you can call being forcefully taken to meet someone against one's wishes a "date."NEVERTHELESS, I really, really liked this book.
The hero and his Russian servants made me laugh constantly, they were so funny.
I really liked the book, even though I really shouldn't.
reread... ^^love this book !!dimulai dari katherine yang menyamar jadi pelayan dengan memakai baju pelayan untuk membuntuti adiknya yang berencana kawin lari. ehh dia malah diculik dan diberi obat perangsang (yang mengakibatkan ia kehilangan virtue nya) serta dibawa ke Rusia oleh Pangeran Alexandrof yang guantengnya gag ketulungan..Kate yang semenjak ketemu Dimitri pembawaannya beda dari perempuan lain, jadi buat dimitri penasaran. yah dibaca sendiri dah,. yang penting buku ini emang top!
Really2 love with this book. . .T.0.P B.G.T Deh. . .Dr awal bca pertemuan antara dimitri ma katya aj dah bqin penasaran stgh mati, , ,dan trnyta emg bnr2 surprise bgt ma kelanjutan crtnya. . .kesel jg c ma pangeran dimitri yg ampuuunnn dudulz bgt c. . .gr2 saking selfish ny g mw nerima kenyataan kalo katya tuh bangsawan sejati. . . .and tmbh kesel jg waktu mrka hrz d pisahkan gr2 salah paham. . .tp after all . . .crtny emg menarik bgt. . .salut ma tokoh cewenya yg brave. . .two thumbs up d
So he erm had to relieve her ya know...*roll eyes*Anyway one thing led to another, Dimitri could not let himself believe Kate's claim that she's an aristocrat because the consequences would be disastrous with the Tzar coming to England on an official visit.
What happened was more fights, drugging AGAIN by his order, guilt on his part and yes, RUNNING AWAY by Dimitri.
Her indomitable spirit and strength of character plus aristocratic pride made it such a hoot to read whenever she defied Dimitri and his female relatives.
I stopped reading her book post 2000.
Despite the basic and somewhat distasteful plot, the cultural contrast of English and Russian aristocracies kept it interesting
