https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/90549.The_Proper_Distinction_Between_Law_and_Gospel
On the back cover, it says it is about "Theology & Doctrine/Doctrines".
But this is not any stuffy theology by any stretch of the imagination.
In fact, it is at least as much about pastoral care as it is about theology.
If you want a highly original treatment on any theological theme, look elsewhere.
Just about all of it is in the Lutheran Confessions.But if you want to hear about how to apply the scriptures to real people and how our Lutheran Theology is truly practical, read this book.
In fact, I think if you ever have to talk about the faith, read this book.
One of the most important books on further understanding law and gospel beyond the basics.
A collection of 39 lectures given by Walther during 1884 and 1885, it is widely taught in Lutheran college- and seminary-level theology courses.In classic Lutheran theology, “Law” is used to denote those parts of Scripture that reveal God’s demands on humanity, while the “Gospel” reveals the gracious and free salvation earned and given by Jesus.Like Martin Luther before him, Walther argues that failing to properly distinguish Law and Gospel can lead Christian theology in unwanted directions.
At the same time, the material from Luther is always good and helps to show Law and Gospel at work in real situations.
This is a book on a series of lectures that Dr. C.F.W. Walther, the first president of the Lutheran Church-Missouri Synod, gave to seminary students in the 1880's (if I remember right). I read it for a class in college and it perfectly breaks down this theological principle that helps define who we are as Lutherans. It makes for an adjusted view of how one reads scripture when they realize that it is through the law/gospel filter that we come to a truer understanding of our faith.
This book is a gem. Walther meticulously points out the vast array of troubles associated with incorrectly mingling law and gospel. Even though this is a staunch Lutheran work, all denominations would do well to read this work.
39 lectures to seminary students in 1884-1885. Translated from German.Does a good job of pointing out when Law and Gospel are to be used in sermons, the difference between them, and the primacy of the Gospel.
An excellent book that I encourage every pastor to read. Walther was one of the few theologians and pastors in the 19th century who truly understood the proper distinction between the Law and the Gospel.
Got an excerpt only of this one in the mail. It was good though, seems like an interesting german chap, this Walther. How to distinguish and then apply Law and Gospel are great questions. The apply part must be fuller in the fuller version, imagine that.
Essential reading for Lutherans - Missouri or otherwise.
This is a very deep but excellent book. If you want to learn how to teach God's word properly then this is the one to read.
Not a quick read, but a thorough study on how the Scripture directs humns to salvation. A must read for seminarians and teachers of theology.
This should be read by everyone every 2-3 years. Great insight and application.
Pastors should study this every year!
While somewhat dated in cultural references, the teachings hold true. It strikes me that some who vocally and belligerently proclaim Walther should go back and read this again.
A very interesting book to help one distinguish between the Law and Gospel taken from 39 of Walther's lectures.
Great for Calvinists heading out of of Calvinism.
