https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/138069.The_Three_Pigs
Last night we read the Stinky Cheese Man and other stupid tales and it was trying to turn fairy tales on their head and it was different, but not great the way this book was.
This is how you turn a story on its head.The art is fantastic and fairly easy to understand what is going on.
Stepping back from the story we are stuck in and finding a new way forward.
I mean this little work is a work of brilliance in my opinion.
I also think this is a fantastic story for adults to read and absorb the meaning.
In Wiesner's version we begin with the conventional story with a kind of retro illustration style, then one pig gets blown into an alternative universe where the pages of the original story appear on the page in a kind of meta-fictional way.
The pigs escape in this reinvention.I have five Wiesner books in front of me, in part because I have a big book to read about the wordless storytelling he may be best known for, and I would say that the reinvented part would have been better served by no words.
But all that being said, and even though I know that this is basically a loose retelling of the traditional The Three Little Pigs type of folktale, I do happen to feel rather sorry for the poor wolf, who is not really evil, but simply a carnivore hunting for food, hunting for a meal (and this salient fact is also the main and probably even the only reason why The Three Pigs is rated with four and not five stars, a personal pet peeve perhaps and even a bit pernickety, but I stand by and with my feelings here, as big bad wolf type of tales have always left me uncomfortable and with sadness for the wolves).Like always, and yes, like usual, David Wiesner's illustrations are simply spectacular, whimsical, descriptive, and I especially appreciate the many visual allusions to some of the author/illustrator's previous picture book offerings (the featured dragon is definitely reminiscent of the dragon found in Wiesner's Free Fall and there are also allusions to Tuesday, but interestingly enough, this time, there are flying fish and not flying frogs presented).
The Three Pigs by David Weisner is a cute story that starts out like the traditional Three Pigs story, but then unexpectedly changes into something much different. The pigs are able to jump in and out of other fairy tales. It's such a unique twist on the original.The illustrations are cute, detailed, and the story has a great ending. We really enjoyed it. 4****
“The Three Pigs” is a children’s book written by David Wiesner, author of the famous book “Tuesday.” “The Three Pigs” is about how the three pigs basically come out of the story and their adventures in the real world.
My favorite image in this book would have to be when the first pig is looking straight at the audience and exclaims: “I think… someone’s out there.” And you could see his face close up and he is squinting at the audience to see who is out there which indicates that he knows that the audience is watching, which is something that most illustrated characters do not notice while they are in a story.
Otherwise, the humor isn’t likely to seem all that funny.The illustrations were all terrific, especially the one where there’s a wonder wall with a mural with waves and fish and other things painted on it and a pig is going from that page onto another, and all the ones where book pages become playthings, and the expressions on all the animals’ faces on almost every page.
The pictures in this book are not Wiesner’s best work though, in my opinion.Any adult, and some children, will guess the twist ending; it is cute.
I’ve liked a few other twisted/fractured fairy tales, though generally they’re not my favorite books to read.
I would like to read all this author-illustrator’s picture books.
Wiesner's alternative take on the traditional fairy tale of 'The Three Little Pigs' is incredibly entertaining. The relationship between the illustrations and written word on the page is extremely unique and would allow for a wonderful discussion with children about how stories can be represented. As a teacher, it could be used to model the traditional ways of storytelling and alternative ways, which the children prefer, why it might be different and would allow children the opportunity to explore their own ideas helping them flourish as writers.
Shame on me for never reading this before! I suppose I may not have appreciated it when my kids were small, because it doesn't really work as a sharing or read-aloud book. But for what it is, it's wonderful. And pioneering, I believe.I love the use of white space. I love the self-promotional gallery walls showing scenes from Wiesner's other books. I love the dragon. But... I do feel sorry for the wolf.
What the heck? WHAT THE HECK! Oh, my goodness.I WILL NOT WEAR CLOTHES UNTIL YOU READ IT AGAIN!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
2002 Caldecott Medal. Ummmm. What the!?! The art is coolish, but the lame story (or lack of story)...Are you kidding me? This reminds me of one of those Saturday Night Live skits where you sit there puzzled while those who created it are high-fiving themselves and chuckling.
In this highly imaginate and artistic twist on the Three Little Pigs, the pigs flee the wolf and escape off the edge of the illustrations into other stories.I thought this book was awesome, but the little kids I read it to (ages 3-4) didn't really get the concept.
A funny twist on a traditional tale told through amazing illustrations which really draws the read in. Really plays on children's skill of intertextuality.
The reader is engaged throughout the whole book, while reading the pigs’ dialogue bubbles as they make their way through the torn out pages of the original book.
One drawback of reading this with younger readers (K-1) is that the students may not have been exposed to the original story enough to gain a sense of the humor and unexpectedness of this book.
Older readers will benefit from the unique arrangement of the text and how the illustrations show the pages of the old story as the pigs take it over and make it their own.
{Session notes whilst reading:}Front cover image:-different coloured eyes, different skin colours-direct eye contact and smiles - creepy, makes you feel uncomfortable-ultra realisticThe Three Pigs - changed from 'Three Little Pigs', altered traditional familiar storyPost-modernism, challenging tradition and assumptions.We start the story sat with the wolf.
Direct addressing the reader - distraction from action in the background.Rules change with new frame - different genre.
Saving the dragon - breaking the stereotypes.In order to get back they have to put the frames back together.
Intertextuality: implied reader needs knowledge of 3 Little Pigs, Dish and The Spoon (Hey Diddle Diddle, dragon character stereotypes.
Wiesner’s postmodern picturebook is a metafictive reimagining of the classic fairytale which employs water color, gouache, colored inks, pencil, and colored pencil on Fabriano hot press paper to raucously depict the three little pigs in a cartoon style while they remain in their own story.
As the pigs tromp from tale to tale they collect new friends and find themselves rendered in varying styles of illustration running the gamut from highly representational to nigh realistic; moreover, they are quite photorealistic in their existence in the gutters outside the frames, in “the real world.” Suddenly remembering the truth of Dorothy Gale’s words, they decide to return home and—much to the dismay of the big bad wolf—take their new friends with them.
It begins by following the traditional fairy tale, with the wolf knocking on each pig's door and threatening to blow their house in.
However, each pig cleverly escapes the wrath of the wolf by exiting the story itself.
Structured like a graphic novel in some ways, the traditional tale is interrupted with speech bubbles and side conversations in which the pigs manipulate the pages of the story.
I love the way in which traditional and abstract storytelling are woven together in this book.
The illustrations and story can both be used as springboards for discussing author/illustrator's craft, fractured fairy tales, and nontraditional storytelling.
What makes this book unique is the deconstruction of the plot, and the bravery of pigs who decided to take matters into their own hands.I really like the idea of pigs flying away on the paper airplane made of the pages of their own story.
Subsequently, the wolf's chase after the pigs through different deconstructed pages arranged in a nonstandard way is something I have never seen in any other books that I had read before.
I also liked the happy ending of the story - when the pigs along with the dragon frightened the wolf away.
The book, The Three Pigs, begins as the classic tale we all have grown to know with three Pigs that set off to build houses of their own.
The Wolf came and blew the straw house down and ate the pig, then he blew the stick house down and ate the pig.
The Pigs leave the story!
They find themselves on an adventure into other classic tales.
The illustrations almost look three dimensional when the pigs leave the pages of their tale and stumble upon the pages of other tales.
The detailed illustrations tell the story of a classic tale with a twist.
We just love David Wiesner's books and though this one actually has some words, it still has the same crazy, mind-blowing illustrations we've come to expect from his wordless books. It's a fun take on the well-told tale of "The Three Little Pigs." We really enjoyed reading this book together and I think it was certainly worthy of it's Caldecott Medal.This book was selected as one of the books for the January 2017- Caldecott Medal Winners 1998-2002 discussion at the Picture-Book Club in the Children's Books Group here at Goodreads.
On the front cover of this Caldecott winner, the suggestions are made that the story of the Three Little Pigs is told over and over, but always with the same outcomes.
And then the questions are asked, who's in charge of the story, who gets to decide what happens, and has anyone asked the pigs?
And so the author proceeds to give us a story that might portray just what the pigs would want to see happen.
That is unless I am told it doesn't qualify as a classic, but I ask you, what could be more a classic than "The Three LIttle Pigs"?
Post modern book which challenges the idea of the traditional three little pigs. Really interesting to look at with children in relation to picture book codes as the little pigs take the story apart including the picture frames and then reconstruct it to suit them. They even take away the words and reconstruc them to create an ending which they want.Really interesting and would create a good discussion with children.
This book is impossible to read out loud, as the text doesn't go from left to right or in a linear timeline. It would be much more suited to guided reading, especially if each child has their own copy. Perhaps stop after each page and talk. It requires lots of intertextual thinking based on traditional tales, and relies on the storytelling tropes they use. It's incredibly inventive and fun.
Wiesner is amazing, and this is my favorite. The hyper-realism, the three-Dimensionality, makes the text so much more meaningful. Both kids have always loved these, and we none of us show any signs of getting tired of his work.
The famous three little pigs escape the huffing-puffing wolf AND the bounds of their pages and go a-roaming through other children's books. Clever concept, and artwork to die for! A fun and very cute time should be had by all.
The story starts out as a traditional The Three Little Pigs story, but then takes and unexpected turn. Beautiful illustrations.
Imaginative book. Difficult to read out loud~~it's not really meant for that.
This was so wonderfully clever! I love how the style of the art changes throughout this story. A fun take on a classic tale!
A great post-modern picturebook that reworks the well known traditional tale in an unexpected and charming way. The illustrations are great, and the way the characters escape the pages is a unique and engaging approach to storytelling. Could definitely imagine using in a classroom setting to inspire children to rework traditional tales themselves!
A FANTASTIC post modern picture books. The three pigs break the page and the story, becoming real characters, and create their own ending. Can’t wait to share this with children!
Love this book.Intertextuality Links to other storiesGood discussion points throughout
