https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/42589.Shoot_the_Piano_Player
This gritty, hard-boiled novel by David Goodis opens with an action scene where a bloody-faced Turley Linn is running for his life through the alleys of a Philadelphia slum, fleeing from two professional hit-men.
Call it horror-crazy."With this background and insight into Eddie's character, we have a more complete overview of the violence taking place one afternoon at Harriet's Hut. The bar's bouncer, Wally Plyne aka the Harleyville Hugger, admits to taking money for giving Eddie's address to the two hit-men.
This causes Lena, the young, attractive waitress and friend of Eddie, to erupt with a torrent of verbal barbs and insults aimed at Plyne.
What's the payoff for the clean ones?
The good ones?
So then you're saying to the world, All right, we'll play it dirty.Is blood thicker than common sense?Haunted by the past and unmoved by the present, Eddie spends his nights playing the piano in a bar.
Though it's the last thing in the world he wants or needs, Eddie gets sucked into the whole mess.
His neighbor, Clarice, normally charges for her "services," but she lets Eddie have the occasional freebie.
Though she barely knows Eddie, Lena is willing to risk jail time AND her own life to protect him.
Written before I was born, this hardboiled novel shows its age a little (don't we all!).
It's not so much the story - which is timeless - as the conversational language used, which I found a little off-putting until I got into the flow of it.
How and why he got there we find out as the story unfolds.Of course, given its genre, there's crooks and guns and fistfights...
There's also the quirky way the story is told, with the piano player regularly having his thoughts laid out on the page, often as questions posed but not answered.
The book tells the story of Eddie, a former concert pianist stuck playing piano at Harriet’s Hut, a seedy dive bar owned by a rough around the edges, zaftig blond.
This is surprising to me, it seems like Goodis could have thrived as a screenwriter.OK, so it’s pretty apparent that I didn’t particularly enjoy reading this book.
I just can’t give up on a book, no matter how much I hate it.** According to Tim Parks in an article for the New York Review of Books blog, the compulsion to stubbornly proceed with reading a book for pleasure, when the experience ceases to be pleasurable, is rooted in immaturity and the sense of achievement received by completing the loathsome tome.
this is a very dark, kind of cool, super noir book that does some cool things with perspective. got a pretty strong female character for the time it was written.i'm more excited to watch the french new wave adaptation (also for class) than i was to read this book. i know! it's like, who even am i? revoke my bookworm card already.bottom line: yeah i have very few feelings about this. sure. it's fine.
I absolutely loved this novel.From the off a bleak noir atmosphere is painted by David Goodis, the inevitable conclusion easy to see from page one.
You know where this is going but you are along for the ride anyway, this is the way all good noir movies work and it is the same with this fantastic book.The story clips along at a frantic pace, the pages flew past as I devoured every incredible detail and every incredible line.
Screw the introduction, I'm intrigued as to how somebody so talented could finish his life writing formulaic prose.
He wants to escape, but his every move is predetermined by the first action he took in the opening of the novel (view spoiler)[ tumbling a stack of beer crates over his brother's adversaries  (hide spoiler)]Goodis strongpoint I think is in the dialogue, in the things left unsaid, in the hesitations and the silences between people who have taken some hard knocks and are wary of their fragile hearts.
and it just goes to show how one never knows what chord will be struck, how a character might resonate, no matter how different in experience, until you meet and absorb them as a reader.
in this book, i am running down a street, and clocking my head, and coming finally to the bar, and then i meet my brother there, and then i become my brother, and i am with him in the alley, there with the hat pin, and i am entirely immersed in this life, this sequence that winds its way to the end.
Goodis is capable of creating characters you would swear he pulled from real life.
I wanted to cradle the two main characters in my arms and invite them into my tree-house and tell them, Hey, you guys, it's not so bad.
But this is noir, and a lot like real life noir doesn't pull any punches.
A loser condemned to lose again who knows it but can't help fighting.
It's the work of a craftsman - not a master, he's too undisciplined for that, but a guy who knows what he's doing, and through sheer willpower is really doing it, after however many years on auto-pilot churning out pulp for a paycheque.
And that's why it's deep - it's the transcript of a struggle.
A spiritual struggle, I suspect, given the raw power of this unique masterpiece.
Beyond even Hammett, I think, for the sense of danger we get at seeing this beast of a writer unbridled.
Unbridled and struggling to stay on track.
This one took a little warming up, however, I did find myself caring about the characters as their personalities developed and we begin to see them as humans with vulnerabilities as they yearn to matter to other people and to themselves.A man named Turley staggers into a bar bleeding and dazed.
Lena, the waitress comes to his rescue, much to Eddie's annoyance.
He died, probably due to injuries sustained a couple of days prior while resisting a robbery.If you like Crime Noir, you may like this one, especially if you are someone who wants to care about the characters.
---When we first meet Eddie, he's an ultra-cool, fatalistic piano player clocking time in a working 
A place where nothing touches him and he need not touch back.This is very clear a work which by nature is noir, and seeks to be noir.
However it cannot help itself to expand into something larger, universal.
In the gloom of the boisterous setting where everyone speaks and no one listens, the haven of a man-made safety, Goodis creates his art through the deft weaving of the noir and universal.
The fleet footed race from pain and the nagging inner need for what caused that pain; to be away from the world; to be drawn back into it.
Loved this one - the atmosphere of impending doom, the strong/silent character of the piano player and the way that the different storylines all came together to create a very satisfying ending.Supposed to be the April read for the Pulp Fiction group but once I started it a couple of days ago, I couldn't put it down and I couldn't wait that long to finish it. Got better and better the more I read - one of my all time favourites.
Lena, on the other hand, seemed like there was so much hidden from the reader but she never really got enough time in the book to explore that.Another issue I found was the books was jammed back with dialogue and I feel like David Goodis was better at building atmosphere.
I wonder if the movie was not a success would this book fade into obscurity like the rest of David Goodis’ novels.I did not intend to be so hard on this novel, I wanted to enjoy it and to some extent I did.
The reader's tolerance for “Down There”/”Shoot the Piano Player” will depend on their affection for the timeworn features of the genre; those who enjoy the requisite diet of doleful melodrama, hard-as-flint dialog and affected toughness will also likely be able to appreciate the moments where Goodis rises beyond pulp into something original and bleakly lyrical.
“Down There”/”Shoot the Piano Player” is compulsively readable, as the titular pianist is carried along on an existential tide of nightmarish bad fortune.
Goodis likely gave his pulp paperback audience far more than its money’s worth in 1956, but this novel endures as merely above-average noir, an evocative pop culture artifact.
Take other noir novels where the protagonist is usually a hard-up gumshoe - the motivation of those kind of books is to find the killer by the end, solve the case, go home and get drunk.
These too are aspects of a noir novel - it’s like Goodis is ticking off boxes on a list.
The dialogue wasn’t bad as the characters snapped back at one another and I appreciated some of the old timey phrases (“no dice”) for nostalgic value but it’s not enough to recommend this book when there are so many other better noir novels to read over this one.
Why do so many readers rank David Goodis so highly in the pantheon of noir?
My theory goes like this: His best books, including Down There, are remarkable primarily for their restraint.
Goodis does his best writing when he doesn't overtax his talent by trying to do too much.
The most notably thin is protagonist Eddie Lynn, who is more husk than human.
In fact, Eddie has cultivated his huskness as a psychic defense against his painful past.
Eventually, of course, Eddie is forced into substantially more action than this, but, as is typically the case with Goodis, as the action accelerates, the artistry deteriorates.
The novel feels very existential; it makes one brood and think about how much the individual controls and governs their own existence, and we are thrust immediately into Eddie’s internal thoughts from the get go when one of his no-good brothers, Turley, bursts into Harriet’s Hut, running for cover.
Eddie is seemingly in the middle between two worlds, the idealistic and romanticized one of Edward Lynn, child prodigy who eventually plays Carnegie Hall, and Eddie, the piano player at Harriet’s Hut who has ties to brothers involved in past crime.
Consistently fast-paced and gripping, Shoot the Piano Player is a very original and unforgettable book, with a really surreal writing style.
WOW. Grande exemplar da literauta americana.
With the suicide of his wife, Eddie's own life and musical career collapsed, as he fought in the mean areas of New York City and Philadelphia before finding a different life with his music at Harriet's Hut. The novel bares Eddie's heart as well as the feelings and scars of several other characters.As the novel develops, Goodis also shows Eddie's relationship to Turley and to their older brother, Clifton.
Overall a signature outing, a key Goodis novel that rivals Dark Passage.We begin with an overly long set-piece in a a dive bar (the dive bar that would be the cover set if this were a tv mini-series) that just won't let up on the clichés-- but this and much more are all forgiven once the onslaught takes place.(Getting to know the weaknesses of Goodis, there are flashes here of his admiration for working-class drama like Streetcar Named Desire and On The Waterfront, powerful for a blue-collar writer in the fifties.
This may very well be my very favorite book.
Standard noir opener.Pace=3: Even though there are backstories and in fact a few stories that could stand on their own, the author keeps the story rolling, solid and steady.Plot=4: Why is a concert pianist playing in dives?
This concert pianist/fall from grace theme is original in the noir genre.
People=3: Interesting, but once the book is closed you probably won't remember a single name.Place=4: Dive bars and hide-outs are standard for this genre and we could be anywhere.
Summary: The slightly hopeful ending isn't as nihilistic as in most stories in this genre.
http://dsdmona1.blogspot.com.es/2014/...
a beautiful, spare story that seems like it would be one massive steaming cliche but is executed with unbelievable finesse. this is great noir.
Truffaut slips a number of false notes into his film and adds a younger brother who does not appear in the novel, unnecessarily complicating the plot and making the two mob killers more bungling and buffoonish than they are in the novel.The novel also is more effective at developing Eddie's back story, and explaining why it is so easy for him to slip into unthinking violence.Primary characters are sharply drawn in Goodis' novel and even minor players are rendered in a memorable fashion.
2.5/5
Goodis isn't to everybody's taste since his novels usually deal with people on the seamier side of life with little chance of improving things and usually with a downbeat ending.This book, for the most part, takes place in and around a blue collar bar in a blue collar neighborhood in Philly.
The book takes place over a very short time period and the piano player has little time to do more than just react to the outside forces that butted into his closed world.
