https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/180467.Self_Editing_for_Fiction_Writers
But if you're going for the effect and resonance, I think, this is the way to do it.And if you're telling a story, shouldn't it be exciting, fun, engaging?
It's about telling a unique, engaging story in a unique language and style.
After all, it's every writer's duty, so I believe, to deliver something worthwhile for your readers who's taking their precious time reading YOUR story above all the others they could be reading.So this book is a gold mine of awesome tips in shaping your story effective and engaging.
These tend to be the most useful kind - in my opinion anyway."Self-Editing for Fiction Writers second edition" by Renni Browne and Dave King is the third kind of writing book.
It's a book about rewriting and I really, really like it.The book opens with a chapter on "Show and Tell" which not only gives the best explanation of this fraught and confusing subject I've ever read, but also explains when it's not just okay but better to tell rather than show.
Their answers are in the back of the book, but they also say no two people will edit a passage exactly the same way.
I clean the house before my house cleaner shows up so she never knows how messy I really am.I have a long list of self-edits I go through (checking for passive, the use of 'was', repeated words, etc.), but I found a book I like called Self Editing for Fiction Writers, by Renni Browne and Dave King.
It covers everything one should look at in their mss in three different ways: * Each chapter covers a multi-page summary on how to do it * Each chapter includes a checklist at the end to apply to your own writing * Each chapter includes exercises to allow you to practice the skill if it's one that is difficult for youWhen I first bought Browne and King's book, I read the entire thing.
I’m not a writer or an editor.
I’m just a person who loves to read and learn, and I definitely learned a lot from this book.
This is not a book on grammar but on writing fiction.
Browne and King cover many topics some of which are: show vs.
tell, monologue, beats, proportion, and repetition.I loved the way the book was structured.
Each chapter has several examples, a checklist, and exercises.
What’s great is the examples and exercises build on the chapters before, so you are constantly reinforcing what you’ve learned.
A well written, informative book.
Highly recommend to both writers and readers.
I should have read this book seven years ago, which is when I bought it.
But according to this book, I’m not a very good one.
My editor referenced Self-Editing for Fiction Writers and suggested I read the first chapter.
I read the first chapter (the squicky feeling in my gut revolved a few times while I seriously considered replying to my editor, “Why for the love of all that is holy did you buy my story?
I’m good at that.” And so on.Needing to read this book made it a more relevant and therefore enjoyable experience.
UPDATED 5/12/15 ... Read it again. The margins are filled with notes. It is so helpful to read this while I am in the midst of editing my own novel-in-progress.***This is an absolutely terrific book ... page after page of suggestions ... great stimulus to thought about my novel in progress ... LEW ... http://lewweinsteinauthorblog.com/
where to put commas, how to pluralize names that end in 's', etc.), but Browne and King truly created a different kind of book.
They talk about how writers should show, not tell, in their writing, how to use voice and style, how to effectively use beats in dialogue, and many other tips and tricks that you can't get from a book on grammar.Browne and King provide many examples throughout the chapters of common mistakes and how to fix them.
There are checklists at the end of every chapter, which I fully intend to use when editing my own work.
The first time I read it was when I started the editing process for my novel, A Confession.
Sparks.' As I read it the first time I found quite a few useful tips - especially for things to be conscious of in my own writing as I self-edited.
And I firmly believe A Confession turned out all the better for it.Now, as I edit my next novel, I've returned to this book - and am glad I did.
Again I was reminded of a lot of things I need to watch for in my writing, things that are already making this next book considerably better as I go through the first round of edits.
When I clicked I'm Finished, I didn't mean it. While I read the book, I know I will come back to it again because it has so much terrific information and observations. My favorite is what they say about dialogue. :)
The book is full of examples that illustrate their points, and it was rare that I found their edited version to be worse than the original.
In fact, at times it seems that they have a serious phobia of all narration.Experienced readers will know that this obsession with showing is a hallmark of more recent fiction.
A more recent example of a book with much telling is Life of Pi, and that clearly didn’t hurt its sales.
Additionally, no book like this, however well-written, can substitute for long hours spent both reading and writing.
I would highly recommend this book to anyone who's interested in writing and/or editing.
Nothing can replace a good beta-reader or writing circle or workshop, but having seen manuscripts submitted to hapless online critique groups forced to read someone's retooled fan fic or novelized AD&D campaign, I believe this book could do a lot of good improving those drafts before anyone else's eyes see them.And let Browne and King not be accused of being timid in their critiques: some of the exercises with which they end each chapter include editing the work of such notables as F.
After so many revisits, I was left this week with points easy to ponder but hard to actualize in my writing, such as ways to get readers to experience character emotion rather than just know it as information, such as how to maybe begin to judge the optimum amount of details to include at various times, such as being careful not to let beats become unnecessary commentary on the dialogue.Another aspect of the book that did not hit me until now was that there is some repetition.
They do state that the old version of this book has caused just that, but unfortunately I feel they have not removed the authoritative voice - the "we have all the truths" view on writing - and therefore they will keep teaching writers the wrong way to edit.
I.e. they teach writers to edit a story in a way that will make Browne and King like it.
Luckily, not everyone in the world are Brownes and Kings.In summary, the book does touch upon most problems that need to be addressed when editing but I suggest that you read their way of addressing them through sceptical glasses.
This book has helped me out the absolute most with my craft. If you are writing anything then I recommend four things:-This book-The Writing Excuses podcast-On Writing by Stephen King-The Emotion Thesaurus But I think this book helps me the most with actual craft. So if you're looking for books on how words interact with one another and how to do it well. Read this book. Front to back and back to front.
There were a great number of examples (mostly from works in those genres), which I generally skipped—not necessarily because of their sources (although, truth be told, I am not even slightly interested in reading John le Carré), but mostly because in 90% of the cases I felt like I didn't need to be shown-instead-of-told.
Anyway, I'm not working in the genres that were best represented in the book and to which its suggestions are most readily applicable, but B&K nevertheless gave me some useful general tips that I'll keep in the back of my mind while I'm going over what I've written.p.s. Can we return to late 19th/early 20th century literature, please?
The thing that makes this book so compelling is that there are constant examples of mistakes or correct usage from both published and non-published stories.
Those examples really made me actively think as I read; not just about the excerpts, but about how my own writing has improved and how I still make some of the common errors like having too many beats.
The assignments are short and several can be done mentally; I fully intend to do some of these written exercises later.[return][return]This was the perfect book to read while I'm doing my first round of edits on my latest Nanowrimo manuscript.
Really nice collection of pitfalls. Sure to relieve any young writer, either because they have new eyes with which to view their manuscript, or because there are many mistakes they are glad not to have made.
When people talk about books that changed their lives, they usually talk about novels.
But if someone asked me what book changed my life, I'd have to point to "Self-Editing for Fiction Writers." Yes, I'd immediately be branded a super-dork, but this book transformed my work like nothing before or since.
"Self-Editing for Fiction Writers" took my hand and guided this dumb little pup through example after example, telling me exactly how to improve my writing.
This is one of the only books I recommend to people who ask me about writing.
It works.
Some solid advice in here but a little heavy on the exercises (which felt like they made up half the book and which I never took the time to complete). I feel like 75 percent of the content is geared toward someone who is a totally newbie, but still gleaned a few tips to apply to my own writing.
Between the heavy language, the slap-you-in-your-face blasphemy, and the sexual themes, this book isn't something I could recommend to a friend even if it had the helpful content to warrant such recommendation.I'm the end, this book could have been a flat 1 star of not for the super helpful "editing checklists" at the end of each chapter which I will be referring back to in the future.If you are looking for a good overview of fiction writing, Go Teen Writers is still the most helpful craft book I've ever read, and it touches on nearly everything his book does, without demanding a sacrificed conscience or slowed reading speed.
Although this book didn't teach me anything new per se, it explained a lot of the groundwork of solid writing and editing in a clear, concise manner, with some great examples.
As the title suggests, it's a great book to read at the editing stage of your fiction.
Contrast this with acquiring grammar rules and learning them and you'll see what I mean.All that being said, I'm keeping this book close at hand for the day I finish a manuscript and I'm ready for editing.
They either can't find a traditionally publisher or they are self published and sell only a handful of copies.
By listening to the people who know what good writing looks like - professional editors and publishers."Self editing for fiction writers" is one of a number of books that explain how to get the basics right.
It won't guarantee that you will have a best seller, but it will stop you from making those basic errors that plague 99% of first drafts.It is very clearly written with lots of good examples and exercises.
Why do some books pull me down the rabbit hole (The Magician’s Assistant) while others - despite an intriguing plot - are just a slog (Winds of War), and why some are so aggravating I abandon them despite everyone else loving them (The Word Exchange).
The explanations and examples of interior monologue, point of view, and beats help me recognize what works and what doesn’t.
As I read, flashes of other novels came to me as examples.I now know that Winds of War suffered from a proportion problem (Too much history, not enough human interest).
Even though the book covered a lot of ground I was already familiar with, I was impressed by the explanations as to why certain ways of writing are better than others, and I certainly came across a few points that made me wince as I realised "Oh god, I do that sometimes!"What would make this a better book as far as I'm concerned would be a chapter on the general technique for going about editing a long manuscript; more subheadings and a summary at the beginning of each chapter; and shorter excerpts - some of them were far longer than they needed to be.This definitely comes recommended, though.
VoiceEach topic includes examples, many from well-known published works and some created.
I intend to make an outline from these chapter headings and questions to use as a worksheet on all future writings.For beginning writers and authors, not all of the above chapter headings may sound familiar, but the examples and explanations within the book will easily lay out the issues.
I'm afraid I found myself recognizing far too many of these issues in my own writing, so now that I've ordered the book I'm heading to the store for my set of colored highlighters.
This book came recommended to me so I bought it and then didn't have time to get to it until it came recommended once again.
I took it on vacation with me for six weeks and worked on a chapter a day.
This worked out great because it gave me time to absorb the information and do the exercises at the end of each chapter.It's definitely filled with practical advice any new writer needs to know.
We all need reminders from time to time.
I saw things in my own revisions due to this book and found it very useful
Decent tool for writers to check out. While parts of it boosted my confidence, other parts brought me to a screeching halt...which is good.More than anything, this is a refresher with a level-headed viewpoint. I wouldn't expect it any other way from an editor's stance.I breezed through it once and plan to work through some of the check lists with my second draft.Take some of it, leave the rest. But, totally worth checking out.Britt Skrabanekhttp://brittskrabanek.com
One of the best books on writing of fiction I've ever read, and I've read so many that by now they usually sound like variations on the same topic. Not this book. A must read. To read and reread and then reread yet again: in short, everything you ever wanted to know about not writing like a diletant but were afraid to ask.
This is the best book about the craft of writing that I have read so far. The authors have a fantastic way of phrasing things so they are easily understood. I will recommend this to authors every chance I get.
