https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/153117.Guerrilla_Warfare
He is ready to give his life, but the positive quality of this guerrilla warfare is precisely that each one of the guerrilla fighters is ready to die, not to defend an ideal, but rather the convert it to reality.Guerrilla Warfare by Che Guevara is the book of standards and tactics for guerrilla warfare for the 1960s.
What makes this book interesting is what makes the guerrilla.
Do not blow up a soft drink factory; it serves no military purpose concentrate on what feeds you enemy: Power plants, ammunition factories, and places that produce war material.Guerrilla Warfare is an idealist type of book.
As out of date as this book is, it is still of use for a historical and psychological look at the tactics of the guerrilla warrior.Che's basic principles are simple - any guerrilla force, if properly trained and motivated and with popular support, can overthrow an unpopular repressive government and replace it with one which represents the popular will.
Cuba being an unequivocal success, with the Congo less so, and Bolivia ending in his own death.Some of his principles on tactics are long since out of date.

The end goal is always the assumption of political power on behalf of the working peoples (here, the rural proletariat and the peasants, who are the principal audience of Guevara's ideas).For topical interest only, there's a nice set of distinctions regarding sabotage & terrorism; the former is unequivocally valuable when the target is correct ("ridiculous to carry out sabotage against a soft drink factory"--which, incidentally, some maoists actually did a few years back in Nepal--WTF?
Many college kids have the classic image of Che Guevara either posted on their wall or t-shirt as a symbol of revolution and non-conformism, but few really know much about him.
This book is his 1960 detailing of how to fight a populist guerrilla war against a powerful government.
It's more useful as an understanding of this type of warfare, than a how-to, though if you ever wanted to know how to make a shotgun propelled Molotov cocktail, there is a nice diagram included.


Well I kinda skim read it... BUT the parts that I did read were actually quite interesting. I didn't know there were so many ways to plan surprise attacks, but now that I do... y'all better watch your back :P
My mate's Commie mum lent it some 6 years ago. I want it back...
Interesting as a historical document but kind of dry. It's mostly an instruction manual so it really doesn't make for good reading.
This is a good operational manual on conducting guerrilla warfare. The author however relies too much on the ability of the revolutionaries to win the population over to the cause and was probably why he was unsuccessful and killed in Bolivia. Always carry salt and shoes.
This book is a series of documents the first written in 1960, the last a pamphlet published in English a few months before Che Guevara was killed, a South American revolutionary and hero.The book looks at guerrilla warfare in particular fighting in places of a similar landscape to South America and elsewhere.
Che advocates female fighters and the benefits of this among ways to live, ways to fight and how to survive in difficult terrains.
This is a small book of 175 pages, and it serves as a good background book wherever guerrilla warfare was the main tactic.
For example, any book on the revolution in Nicaragua.
For example, a guerrilla unit cannot survive without the popular support of the people.
I also did not know guerrillas slept in hammocks!
I originally bought this book because I felt inspired by one of Che Guevara's quotes, but it turned out to be completely from what I was expecting, which is okay because it helped me to form a more detailed picture of the Revolution in Nicaragua.
A pretty good how-to manual, written 58 years ago.Most would still stand true today, apart from the difficulty of communications - cell and satellite phones would transform that problem of laying miles of cables through jungles; yet would also make it near impossible to disrupt the established army's lines.I think Che alive today would be most shocked at how true his prediction was, that one of the biggest threats to The People was not the massive corrupt governments of the world, but the growth in power of the monopolistic capitalist corporations, which don't just have askew morals, they have none.
El Che relata en modo de "manual" como debe construirse una guerrilla para luchar contra un ejército opresor. En ocasiones en mucha profundidad, indicando que deben llevar los guerrilleros en la mochila o como castigarlos por mal comportamiento, pero también habla sobre las tácticas militares, como establecer relaciones con la población rural civil o cómo organizar el abastecimiento de recursos para los guerrilleros.
More interesting than I expected and interesting in ways I didn't expect. Fascinating that this was published in 1961: it means the USA could have used this work--basically THE handbook of guerrilla warfare tactics and strategy--to understand what they would be up against in Vietnam. Also intriguing to read Che's idealized portrait of the ideologically-motivated guerrilla soldier: stoic, patient, inexhaustible, ascetic... quite a contrast from today's soyboy and safe space culture.
What is most striking about this work at this time is how brutal it seems for the very real talk of killing people. Rather than read this as one might Roman history, or Book of Five Rings, Guerrilla Warfare is relatively contemporary, and you know the author has actually participated and developed the tactics described herein. Brutal reading. Makes the Anarchist Cookbook look like a Betty Crocker recipe collection.
Fascinating, succinct. A very technical look at the means and methods by which Che organized a successful insurrection against a force with far superior numbers, weapons, and position. There's a minimum of philosophy (except for the Epilogue) and quite a lot of practical anecdotes and examples in a no-fuss, easy to read and comprehend style.
An impressive and exacting explanation of how to stage a guerilla takeover from supplying troops, inspiring them as well as supporting production and conserving ammunition in the run up to facing an organised military power. The Cuban example is astounding in the scale of it's success against the odds and monopolies to this day.
3.5
Interesting as an historical document and insight into Guevara's thought process and philosophy, but out of date in many respects.
Very practical guide.
Well, if I ever need to be a Guerilla, I guess I know how to do it. That's nice.
In this book Che theorized the nature, strategy and tactics of guerrilla warfare, and to an amazing degree, getting out some of the very details.
An important role of the guerrilla fighters is they are virtually the land reformers.
The book gave the details of the importance of mobility of the revolutionaries, i.e., hit and run tactics, supply of ammunition and food, the sources of fund, the role of female fighters or assistants, types of war industry, sabotage activities, etc.
The book might get a little bit bored later on with chapters on the structure and organization of the revolutionary army, training and education of the people and soldiers, medical problems, etc.
In this book Che theorized the nature, strategy and tactics of guerrilla warfare, and to an amazing degree, getting out some of the very details.
An important role of the guerrilla fighters is they are virtually the land reformers.
The book gave the details of the importance of mobility of the revolutionaries, i.e., hit and run tactics, supply of ammunition and food, the sources of fund, the role of female fighters or assistants, types of war industry, sabotage activities, etc.
The book might get a little bit bored later on with chapters on the structure and organization of the revolutionary army, training and education of the people and soldiers, medical problems, etc.
I'm not really sure how effective a review I can write of this book - I am neither an expert on Cuba nor Communism, and my expertise on warfare is so far detached from Che Guevara's that it is impossible to judge on that basis either. I can say that, personally, I got more out of this book in 2015 than I did out of  Reminiscences of the Cuban Revolutionary  when I read it in 2009. I think I should re-read Che's diaries at some point, too.I was struck by the apparent usefulness of the book as a m
I think I should re-read Che's diaries at some point, too.I was struck by the apparent usefulness of the book as a manual for fighting in a guerrilla war; while it is informed by Che's experiences in the Cuban war of liberation, the actual events of that war are not emphasised (until the final appendix).
I doubt that they would still work, in the 21st century, but fifty years ago I could see this book being of actual, practical use to the guerrilla revolutionary.The other argument which particularly struck me was that that the guerrilla is a political soldier, inextricably linked to a particular form of revolution, political organization, and popular movement.
To the average reader it may seem slightly obscure if you are not engaged in a guerrilla war and many of the practical guides may seem slightly out of date (for example communication with presumably be easier in most parts of the world with mobile phones) but for the reader who is interested it is a fairly simple task to translate the conditions Guevara raises into a modern urban guerrila war.
Those with an academic interest in guerrilla warfare or Latin American history would do well to seek out the Loveman-Davies edition of this book.
It includes not only the original (English-translated) text of "Guerrilla Warfare," but also two later essays that show Guevara's progression from an essentially "people's war" theorist to his better-known theory of "foco" (small-unit) guerrilla warfare.But the real value of this edition lies with the numerous case studies that Loveman & Davies have compiled, showing how Guevara's theories were applied by various Latin American guerrilla movements in the 1960s and 70s.
There is definitely something to be learned here by both historians and the current community.Major flaws.
There are lots of flaws here.
That alone costs this book a star.The rest of the flaws are with Che's writing.
First, he says VERY obvious things like "don't attack a better equipped enemy".
Second, he repeats himself a lot.
We get it, steal ammo off your enemy.
Third, even though the book is somewhat structured, he still bounces around a lot.
Forth, many of his "insightful" offerings are very vague.
Could it have been more insightful, shorter and less repetitive?
Worth reading, to dispel the myth from reality.
Other category was more tactical, he has a good discussion on how to effectively implement Che was not very good at most of his life tasks; miserable at his post-revolution jobs in Cuba (i.e. running banking system); he then failed miserably in fomenting revolt in Africa...tried in Bolivia (where he failed to take his own sage advice, which he wrote concisely in this book!), got himself captured and killed.The book is hefty, but mostly essays; Che's writing is relatively short and quick reading.
Along with a brief biography, this book will dispel much of the myth.
