https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1361651.Seven_Interpretive_Essays_on_Peruvian_Reality
mariategui's core insights - that the oppression of indigenous people in peru (and in many places in the americas) is tied to semi-feudal oppressive land arrangements, and that indigenous ways of social organization pre-colonization can serve as, as marx says in the letter to vera zasulich, the "fulcrum of social regeneration" - are incredibly valuable.
however, some of mariategui's language is insufficiently critical of colonialism in my opinion.
still, mariategui's essays are crucial reading for marxists.
not only is it important for those in latin american contexts (as mariategui has served as inspiration for decades of leftist organizations in latin america), but arguably those in a north american context as well
La verdad es que no recuerdo como me enteré de este libro, pero poco a poco entendí porque se convirtió en un fundamento de todo análisis de la cultura, economía y política del Perú.
Aunque ciertamente disfrute de algunos ensayos más que otros, en especial los ensayos que lidiaban con la religión y el regionalismo en el Perú, todo el conjunto muestra la profundidad del pensamiento de Mariátegui.
Definitivamente recomendaría leer este libro porque, aunque el ensayo de la literatura no tiene mucha relevancia hoy en día, los puntos que el trata sobre la religión y el regionalismo definitivamente siguen con nosotros.
OVER-RATED

I have read the first three essays of this collection. Mariategui directly addresses the problem of indigenous people of Peru, and more broadly those in Latin America. He has a unique way of stating his approaches.
I'm not sure what to say about essays two to six. In fact, not a whole lot deserves to be said about them, but in his exposition on the colonial economy, Mariategui nails it. Still relevant almost a century later, and not alone for Peru.
I have read the first three essays of this collection. Mariategui directly addresses the problem of indigenous people of Peru, and more broadly those in Latin America. He has a unique way of stating his approaches.
Im looking for Juan Carlos Mariátegui's definition of "literatura indigenista" for my dissertation... Mariátegui is one of LatinAmerica's most important socialists.
I´m looking for Juan Carlos Mariátegui's definition of "literatura indigenista" for my dissertation... Mariátegui is one of LatinAmerica's most important socialists.
Interesting and informative until (personally) the last essay, "Literature on Trial" which seems to be just a run-through of authors Mariategui thinks are important. But helpful overall.
probably hard to find in translation, but an incredible and seminal work from the first latin american communist to truly break with eurocentrism.
