https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/58314.The_Elementary_Particles
But I think there are more interesting ways of reading Les Particules, which show that it's not as pointless as it first appears.So, after considering it a while, I'd say that this is basically a book about sexual frustration.
I don't think, however, that we need to discuss whether Michel's idea makes scientific sense; I don't believe Houellbecq is seriously saying that we should find a way to evolve away from sex, any more than Brecht in The Tutor is seriously suggesting autocastration as a solution.
Ετσι ο συνολικός αριθμός των σωματιδίων διπλασιάζεται•Ο θηλυκός "νέος Ωραίος Κόσμος" είναι το όραμα του Ουελμπέκ ως μια θαυμαστή και τρομακτική ουτοπία.
Εδώ επικρατεί ο ατομικισμός και η υλιστική μίζερη κυριαρχία.
Έτσι, αυτοβούλως όλοι οι άνθρωποι θα είναι αδέλφια...
Καταγγέλονται σαρκαστικά και καυστικά οι κοινωνίες των φιλελεύθερων οικονομιών και της αχαλίνωτης σεξουαλικής απελευθέρωσης ως καταστροφικές για τον δυτικό κόσμο του 20ου αιώνα.
Σύμφωνα με τον μάλλον τρομαγμένο και μοναχικά ευαίσθητο συγγραφέα αυτός ο κόσμος οφείλει να αντικατασταθεί απο τις μελλοντικές οντότητες αφού οι παρελθοντικοί άνθρωποι που επέφεραν τον εκμαυλισμό των πάντων πρέπει να αντικατασταθούν απο τη μοριακή βιολογία της εθελούσιας αυτοκαταστροφικής κάθαρσης.
"It's a curious idea to reproduce when you don't even like life." It's rare to come across a book filled with so pure of hate.
Oh really fuck those guys, especially Deleuze, but make it clear we don't like any of those guys from the 60's.
Masterbation fodder, or else just more fucking people.
It might not sound possible but this book might possibly hate everything, the author / narrator doesn't even seem to place himself in any kind of position where it seems like he would be saying 'oh look at all of these poor shits!!
To say this book is just about sexual frustration is to hugely miss the point.
This is a BIG PICTURE book but carried out through a tightly crafted narrative mainly surrounding two brothers birthed from a massively disfunctional genetic pool with one shared parent: a terminally miserable, often nauseatingly sexually deviant literature professor named Bruno and a largely emotionless but harmless microbiologist in deep almost inhuman isolation named Michel.
So if any readers who take my opinions as any sort of guide end up having trouble with it along the way, I implore them to press on.
This book (as well as the other Houellebecq I read, Platform) captures the bleak purposeless of modern life better than almost anything I can think of.
I'm not, you know, depressed or anything, but I can share at least in some part their view of the world as bleak, lonely, and irredeemable except through very brief moments of relieved pain via drinking and sex.Secondly, the book is darkly funny.
Not amateurish darkly funny, because, I mean, this book is dark.
Think-- a long, cold autumn afternoon sipping coffee and reading "Never Let Me Go." Think-- Dan Brown# poolside.
Mr. Houellebecq, sir: I am your devoted FAN (I drag my gory knees on the ground, en route to the basilica of French Modern Literature-- a palace of gleaming rubies that reaches toward the bright summer sky)!!!# This type of novel, this quality of work, inspires me to even mention Dan Brown.
Dan Brown.
I make reference to him with a smile--a vibrant optimism afforded only by the likes of wizards like Houellebecq!
Κι έτσι φεύγει η ζωή και χάνεται και δε γυρίζει, φως μου.Μέσα από την αφήγηση της ταραχώδους ζωής δύο ετεροθαλών αδελφών (που δεν γνωρίζονται εξαρχής μεταξύ τους και θα συναντηθούν για πρώτη φορά στο τέλος των μαθητικών τους χρόνων), ο Michel Houellebecq διηγείται την πορεία του δυτικού ανθρώπου στο λυκόφως του εικοστού αιώνα.
Χωρίς οικογένεια και φίλους, άρα χωρίς σταθερές, οι ήρωες του βιβλίου δυσκολεύονται με τις ανθρώπινες σχέσεις, τα συναισθήματά τους, την ερωτική τους ζωή.
Ένας σεξουαλικά καταπιεσμένος άνθρωπος κι ένας σχεδόν σεξομανής συνθέτουν τις δύο όψεις του νομίσματος της σεξουαλικότητας του σύγχρονου (δυτικού) ανθρώπου σ’ ένα σύμπαν παρηκμασμένο, «σ’ έναν οδυνηρό κόσμο ανταγωνισμού και πάλης, ματαιοδοξίας και βίας», όπου αξίες όπως η αγάπη, η αλληλοκατανόηση κι ο αλληλοσεβασμός φαντάζουν αδόκιμες.
At a certain point I decided that he wasn't a regular charming misanthrope: I discerned that he hated Muslims, black people, and homosexuals even more than he hated everyone else, and so I didn't go out with him again.That French guy was a big fan of Michel Houllebecq.At the time, I wondered for a moment why I find generalized misanthropy acceptable -- even kind of charming -- but felt more specifically targeted hatreds were completely repellant.
Anyway, this train of thought doesn't have much to do with this book, except that maybe it does relate to the French and the way that they think about people.
I wish I was able to write a more detailed reaction to this novel, but I feel nothing. Not in the sense of 'poetic existential despair' nothing, but total non-commitment.These cynical rants against humanity are really all the same, aren't they? Occasionally you find one with at least some stylistic flair and originality, like Céline's, but here I see failed edgy attempts to shock with bad sex, loneliness, and a touch of misogyny. So fucking what? I'd go read Reddit comments if I wanted to read that. I do not. That's all.
This book brought me to laughter.
And this is not a compliment, but actually quite the opposite.Every character here is monodimensional and unrealistic, while the story itself is ridicolous.
Blame me if you like, but after the tenth masturbation scene filled up with philosophical rubbish and Andre Gide quotes I've felt a big nausea coming up.
And this malaise stayed with me till the end of the novel.
There are many novelists who have their own obsession for sex and some of them are consistently good such as Philip Roth and Ian McEwan; Michel Houellebecq, in my humble opinion, is not.PS: Review corrected and re-edited in September 2014.
The longueur of French academic life. The pain of being 40 and unfuckable. Something about quantum physics. It's all here in this eggheady gloom festival.
Daringly original and yes, ludicrously filthy!, but for anyone that thinks this is just three hundred and eighty pages of Masturbating, blow-jobs and debauchery your missing the point, as there are far more serious things going on here than spanking the monkey!
Michel Houellebecq has written a work of great intelligence and maturity that is nihilistic in nature and immensely sad but was always compulsive reading.
Many will pass him off as a nihilist, racist, pervert and for the mistreatment of women, who has written a lewd and funny work for cheap thrills with the sole aim to offend, I am not having that one bit!.
Materialism specifically—the chasm of need instilled within people who then feel inferior because of genes, the natural process of aging, economic position, etc.—has doomed us to depression, hate, and murder.
And through our increasing needs and desires, we come to view ourselves as separate from each other, dislodged and unconnected spiritually, heightening our anguish.Many reviewers claim that this work is highly misogynistic, however, Houellebecq clearly laments humanity’s treatment of women.
Bruno only reaches some measure of happiness in life by means of a woman who shows him how to accept and respect his body and sexual needs without judgment, by introducing him to communities in which the sex act is honored.
Houellebecq’s varied and fascinating observations on the awfulness of everything come together in The Elementary Particles to make for a brutally powerful novel that genuinely blew me away, leaving me filled with new questions about the nature of our society and human relationships within it.A sourpuss Houellebecq might be, but he is a damn talented sourpuss, and I rate this novel as one of the greatest of the late 20th Century, a book that I think will hold its own as a great work of its time and be read in future decades, much as we still read The Outsider, or The Catcher in the Rye.This is a novel of ideas.
The way Houellebecq combines science and sociology is amazingly intelligent and deliciously dizzying. Asexuality and sex addiction, the two offsprings of the sexual liberation of the 60s, are envisioned by the French author in a marriage whose fruit seems to be extremely... Nietzschean. I must admit I got completely carried away, while the trick he pullled in the epilogue had me looking for my mind cause yeah, I suddenly felt it missing.Amazing stuff.
I generally lose patience with books about epically unhappy people.So why do I like reading Houellebecq novels?
Houellebecq is intellectual and smart and I like his analysis of what motivates people.
I think that is really why I like reading Houellebecq's books because he reminds me actually of how much I like my life, and even though I can make improvements mostly with more informed decisions; I don't want to spend the bulk of my life over examining my life to the point that I quit living my life.
Ο Ουελμπεκ στο συγκεκριμένο βιβλίο καταπιάνεται σχεδόν με όλους και με όλα...Την εξέλιξη του ανθρώπινου είδους, τον έρωτα, την αγάπη, την μοναξιά, την "ελευθερία" και πάει λέγοντας.
Επίσης υπάρχουν πολλές αναφορές σε έργα άλλων συγγραφέων/στοχαστών όπως του Νίτσε και του Χάξλευ, Σε γενικέ γραμμές ο συγγραφέας προσεγγίζει εύστοχα πολλά από τα παραπάνω θέματα χωρίς να λείπει το χιούμορ και ο αυτοσαρκασμός.Προσωπικά θεωρώ ότι ο Ουελμπέκ βάζει τον εαυτό του κάπου ανάμεσα από τα δυο αδέλφια.
Ανάμεσα από έναν ανέραστο επιστήμονα και έναν μάλλον κακομοίρη άβουλο καθηγητή, ο οποίος είναι εθισμένος στην πορνογραφία και τον αγοραίο έρωτα.
Hilarious article about the whole rancid argument herehttp://books.guardian.co.uk/departmen...Sample quote"If it hadn't been my son, I wouldn't read that kind of crap, I would put it down straight away, because if there's one thing I detest in the world it's pornography.
That book is pure pornography, it's repugnant, it's crap.
I don't understand its success at all, that just shows the decadance of France." In her own book, she speculates that he writes about sex because he doesn't get enough.
Stupid little bastard.
Yes, Houellebecq's a stupid little bastard, whether he's my son or not."
This book is a consummate sociological description and commentary of the second half of the twentieth century's social revolution in western culture.
The reader must often stop reading and learn the lesson he is trying to convey before continuing.As another example, below, the modern world takes on a very dark shadow throughout the book, but nowhere like when he first describes abortion issues.
In this book, it helps to be somewhat well grounded in biology as one of the main characters, Michel (sic,) is a molecular biologist.
I almost always finish books, but this is just a chore.As offensive as parts of it are (yes, yes, I'm supposed to be offended, and I can see the ambiguity about whether the misogyny and racism expressed is the narrator's or the protagonist's - all very dull and adolescent, like a stand-up being ironically racist and sexist), it's mostly just DULL.
How often do I have to sit through another pointless passage about tightening vaginas etc?I would hesitate to say this book is pornographic, but like porn, it quickly becomes dull, mechanical, unemotional and slightly nausea-inducing.
But it brought Houellebecq into the public eye and set the stage for his later books, so it's worth reconsidering.I think it's weak: weaker than all of the models he attempts to emulate.If you want genuine existential disorientation, read Sartre.
(Or Cathy Acker.)If you want the thrill of a science-fiction ending in which humans are regarded as wonderful but primitive things of a happily discarded past, watch "Star Trek." Houellebecq's book is is a pastiche of those authors, along with pinches of Sollers, Camus, and Artaud, and many sidelong (and nervous) glances at Nietzsche and Schopenhauer, whom he can't quite bring himself to openly emulate, presumably because then he couldn't continue to be interested in middle-class values.
Apesar de entender o enquadramento e o contexto narrativo de ”As Partículas Elementares” tive sempre dificuldade em “partilhar” a solidão e a tristeza dos dois meio-irmãos, Michel e Bruno, os seus comportamentos e a depravação sexual associada, excessivamente repulsiva, com longos períodos de leitura profundamente repugnante, porque não vislumbrei nenhum tipo de enquadramento entre as diferentes temáticas abordadas e a “história” que se vai desdobrando sem nenhum critério definido.
Purposefully vicious and perverted to make philosophical points about the unhappy state of humanity.
An entirely compassionate work of art, in its way, in that it's about ending human suffering and moving beyond desire and death.
Whole paragraphs (eg, about humanity's historically unprecedented concern with aging and the preferability of suicide to loss of physical function) I read outloud to a friend.
At a bar, had another friend read a hilarious destruction of Brazil's allure when someone nearby ranted about Brazil's awesomeness.
An exciting book that makes me wanna write while I read everything this dude's done and does forevermore hereafter.
Όπως και ο ίδιος ο Ουελμπεκ προγραμματικά δηλώνει το βιβλίο είναι μια ιστορία του αναταράξεων κ της πνευματικής αυτοκτονίας του δυτικού πολιτισμού στα τελευταία 30 χρόνια του 20ου αιώνα.
Αυτή η ιστορία έχει ως γενέθλιο τόπο τη σεξουαλική απελευθέρωση των σεβεντις και τις συνέπειες που φέρνει μαζί της επηρεάζοντας καταλυτικά έννοιες όπως η μητρότητα, οι ερωτικές σχέσεις, το νόημα της αγάπης και της ανθρώπινης στάσης απέναντι στο θάνατο και στα γηρατειά.Όλες οι κατηγορίες από μια θέση "πολιτικής ορθότητας" περί μισάνθρωπου, ρατσιστή, μισογύνη Ουέλμπεκ είναι νομίζω εκτός θέματος, ο συγγραφέας χαρτογραφεί εξαίρετα τα αδιέξοδα του μεταμοντέρνου ανθρώπου και προσβλέπει σε μια βαθιά ανθρωπολογική μετάλλαξη ως διαφυγή και από τη συναισθηματική απομόνωση και αλλοτρίωση του σύγχρονου κόσμου αλλά και από την βύθιση σε ένα φονταμενταλισμό του παρελθόντος.Μερικά σημεία δοκιμιακών παρατηρήσεων μέσα στο μυθιστόρημα είναι συμπύκνωση εκατοντάδων χρόνων ανθρώπινης ιστορίας.
P. Lovecraft, in which we find many elements of "The Elementary Particles".This novel reflects author's cultural pessimism, his contempt for the atomized, egotistic, decadent Western civilization, its liberal democracy and capitalism.
This sci-fi element might be the weakest part of the novel, and while Michel's story is not as compelling as his brother's, it's an interesting juxtaposition - they even seem like two faces of the same person, and having in mind Houellebecq's biography (e.g. his mother and two different DOBs that he shares with his characters), it might be the author himself.Conclusion: Read this book, it's not (just) a porn.[Read this review on my blog]
Не можах да я оставя!Първо да кажа, че тук има толкова много секс, извращения, страст, задоволяване на плътски щения и нагони, толкова подробно и прецизно описани сцени, че по едно време стигам до един цитат от Пруст и вместо "простотата", аз чета "простатата" :) И си викам, какво стана тука, бре?
Брутално написана книга, без да е скрито нищо - откровена, рязка, чак боли или поне ти става къде гадно, къде неудобно, къде просто тъжно, но не можеш да четеш безразличен.
На моменти чак ми идеше да му се обадя и да му се развикам: "Как ги правиш така нещата бе, мамка ти чужбинска!"Искам още Уелбек!
Another author in that very French intellectual tradition which seems to confuse being cynical with being profound. The basic thesis is that humans are risible and worthy of our hatred, and that interpersonal relationships are a despicable delusion. Some of this is illustrated with neatly-done set pieces, other parts are more didactic. The novel shows a consistent disgust for human bodies and sexuality which I thought rather juvenile.There are some moments of wit, but in general the prose style is merely functional. I think this is supposed to be cleverly ‘scientific’ but I found it only uninteresting.
Cuenta sus vidas y hace un repaso de las corrientes ideológicas desde 1950 hasta nuestros días, haciendo una crítica feroz al movimiento hippie y otros movimientos "libertarios", ya que los narra desde la perspectiva de los hijos de esos padres que quisieron sentir la libertad sexual y espiritual a costa de todo y de todos, pasando por encima de unos hijos que quedaron desamparados.Sirviéndose de dos personalidades antagónicas, Houellebecq va cruzando sus historias con extraños incisos muy científicos, que llaman la atención porque para mí, son innecesarios, aunque dan ese punto de originalidad.
The Elementary Particles wasn’t an easy read – it required long breaks in between and an even longer walk after I finished it.
Empty creatures evaporate quietly; nobody misses them.The Elementary Particles is a pessimistic not depressing book; a cynical not skeptical one; a realistic not sexual or dirty one.
It shows that still there’s hope; that there are people around us who care and feel and love, and that in the end The Elementary Particles isn’t a book about how sick we are, but how sick we can become if we don’t care to change.

