https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/149621.Ice_Station_Zebra
Back in the good old days when the Soviets were the bad guys the Cold War was cold.
The race to Ice Station Zebra is classic; one thing this book taught me as a writer is that you can push the limits to develop characters.
I can empathize with trying to conduct operations in the cold.
And, unfortunately, we got the added specialty of maritime operations after graduating the Royal Danish Navy's Fromandkorpset combat swim course-- being in the North Sea in November wasn't fun-- but locking out of a sub really sucked.
I don't know how those guys do it on those submarines.
If you're looking for a fast, fun read, I recommend this book.
Things get even trickier when Carpenter shares Ice Station Zebra’s real purpose and the fact that he suspects foul play.Before getting to the novel itself I feel compelled to explain what drove me to grab an “old” Alistair MacLean classic.First, by reviewing a classic thriller from 1963, I hope to expose some of you younger readers to a masterpiece, which is high up there among the mystery titans as Christie and Simenon.
I exclaim that Ice Station Zebra has provided much.Alistair MacLean does extremely well to draw the reader without the need of using any “fireworks and pyrotechnics”.
It really plods along over those early few chapters, taking a while to set up the story, show each of the main characters, show you the ship in what feels like more detail than needed, although you’re aware that a lot of it will come into play later, and it does.
One point that irked me a little is that the author is clearly British, and as such many of the Americans sometimes speak exactly how the British think Americans might speak, not all "Howdy" cowboy-like, but in that the American characters sometimes use terms and phrases and mannerisms that remind me of British officers rather than Americans.
A classic adventure tale, although the narrator kept a lot of screts from everyone including the reader.Intending this book to fulfil the Seasonal Reading Challenge WINTER CHALLENGE 2017 25.4 - Nick KY’s Task: White Winter, Yellow Moon, book 1,option B. The book is on page one of the list Ice and Snow.
One of the very best of Alastair MacLean. Also, Fear is the Key (my fav) and Night without End.I must say there were some pretty awful movies made from his films, especially Ice Station Zebra. I remember seeing it in the cinema and quietly gagging the whole time.I read all his books when I was a teen, and then up to Breakheart Pass, which did not impress me.
This is a first-rate Cold War thriller that stacks up well against the Tom Clancys of the world.The book is also completely different from the famous Rock Hudson film.MacLean's novel is a finely-crafted whodunit set in the frigid High Arctic. Why did a fire break out on the British Arctic research station Zebra? And why is a U.S. nuclear submarime obliged to rescue, taking along a mysterious British physician with carte blanche from the Pentagon?Toss in subterfuge, Soviets and constant jeopardy and you have a sensational reading recipe.Highly recommended.
Ice Station Zebra is a classic suspense/thriller during the height of the cold war. It is somewhat dated now, but it has some great elements of epionage, murder, plot twists, and heroics. It is a light, yet entertaining read.
On board is Dr Carpenter, a mysterious Englishman, who is tasked with discovering what exactly occurred at the station.As is traditional in an Alistair MacLean nothing is quite as it seems.
There is precious little time for reflection or character development, not when there are Reds to outwit and icy tundras to cross.In a strange way Ice Station Zebra has more in common with classic Christie mysteries like "Murder on the Orient Express" and "Ten Little Indians" then the bullet laced thrillers of our own day.
All the books Alistair MacLean has blessed this world with that I have read, I have loved.
But this one tops them all, and has landed right on the top of my favourite books list.
Every time I read it, it gets better, too.
I love the nitty-gritty bits, the times when a writer makes you feel everything.
MacLean does just that.
Besides the wonderful, engrossing, colourful descriptions, there are also plot twists that blow the mind.
It doesn't stop at the thrills physically and emotionally, it also bends the mind.
Whether you're into thrillers or not, I would definitely recommend this book.
Otherwise, I'd have given it four stars because when everything came together it was fairly solid.However, I also have to add that when the bad guy was 'revealed' at the end, it wasn't surprising, as I'd already pegged who the villain was - not necessarily because of anything particular I picked up on, but merely because I think I've seen enough movies, and read enough whodunit books, to be able to figure out with a fair amount of consistency who the bad guy is.
At any rate, after having read this (which was my first Alistair MacLean book), I'm definitely interested in picking some of his other writings
Beneficiind de o ecranizare celebră și inspirat din fapte reale (Operațiunea CIA „Cold Feet”), acest roman detectivistic de tip „Agatha Christie” (un submarin trimis să salveze membrii unei stații pseudometeorologice arctice aflate în derivă se trezește la bord cu un sabotor care trebuie identificat) nu este printre capodoperele lui MacLean.Ceea ce nu este o problemă - toate cărțile lui Alistair MacLean se citesc cu plăcere, chiar dacă nu toate te lasă fără grai.Varianta apărută la noi, „Misiunea Cobra” (!), la Editura Lucman, este bine tradusă - bravo Mihai C.
Ok, I enjoyed the book but frankly the movie SUCKED big time.
Even Ernest Borgnine (who is a great character actor, btw) couldn't save this one.
His character didn't even appear in the book, the whole ending was messed up and.
:o)The book is a great read, but then I haven't found a single one of Maclean's books that I didn't enjoy.I like the interplay between the characters in this one and the descriptions of the ice pack actually made me feel COLD they were so good.Not having ever made it onto a nuclear sub, I have no idea if the descriptions were acurate or not.
(Tom Clancy and his ilk) The characters are pretty well-defined with distinctive personalities even though not many words are spent on their characterization, the plot actually takes its time to build up logically and the prose can occasionally get quite beautiful when describing the Arctic landscape.
Speaking of that: It's also at least as much a wilderness survival story as a spy novel, and I didn't mind that.
The Arctic almost comes alive and becomes a character in the book, being a more memorable antagonist than the Soviet spies.
Dr.Carpenter, our narrator, arrives at a state of the art (in 1963) US nuclear sub (the Dolphin) with orders for its US Commander Swanson to give him every assistance in effecting a rescue of the survivors of a fire at Drift Station Zebra, a British meteorological research station located on the Arctic ice pack.
The story fairly rockets along with lots of twists and turns as Carpenter, Swanson and the crew of the Dolphin continually risk their own lives to save the stranded and helpless men.
Along with HMS Ulysse, Golden Rendzevous and San Andreas this is one of the best MacLean Novels.
A USN Nuclear Submarine dashes to the Arctic to rescue a British meteorological team trapped on the polar ice cap.
However except the protagonist nobody knows that the rescue attempt is really a cover-up for one of the most desperate espionage missions of the Cold War. MacLean is at his favourite territory here i.e the Sea. The climax is the proverbial "tables were turned".
Believe me nobody writes like Maclean and Ice Station Zebra will keep you biting at your nails till the last page.
High tension and a lot of mystery about the central character. But who is the real hero? The Brit or the US submarine captain? The ending is a who-done-it. The details of the submarine under the Arctic sea ice and how the submarine breaks through to rescue a British team near death, is stunning. A great adventure.
The first part of this contained too much information about submarines for my taste, but they quickly reached the arctic ice where it became more interesting, and the second half was gripping.
Ice Station Zebra is no exception.The atomic submarine Dolphin has impossible orders: to sail beneath the ice-floes of the Arctic Ocean to locate and rescue the men of weather-station Zebra, gutted by fire and drifting with the ice-pack somewhere north of the Arctic Circle.
It is this attitude that the protagonist of this novel, Dr. John Carpenter encounters when he tries to come aboard the submarine even though he had proper authorization required to do so.
But in certain Alistair Maclean novels, the language is in first person.
Although it was written in 1963 MacLean's descriptions of one of the supposedly first nuclear submarines still feels fresh and an impressive technology to an overly-saturated sci-fi savvy readership of the 21st century.The main character is compelling and doesn't come across as arrogant, which is an achievement considering his constantly being several steps ahead of everyone else.
Overall I can't recommend this book enough, for the most part it is pretty tightly constructed and, odd spellings aside, feels as fresh as anything written in more recent years.
Polar meteorological outpost Drift Ice Station Zebra has suffered a catastrophic fire.
But: who exactly is the mysterious "Dr. Carpenter", an Englishman whom Commander Swanson is ordered by Washington to take along aboard his submarine?
Was Zebra really "just" a weather station?
Water is beginning to come in".Commander Swanson: "Where"?crewman: "Starboard bulkhead".
Swanson: "How much"?crewman: "A pint or two, just trickling down the bulkhead.
And it's getting worse.
It's getting worse all the time.
For ---- sake Captain, what are we going to do"?
Swanson: "What are you going to do?
A sort of anti-James Bond spy novel, with no female characters at all and settings that are anything but glamorous, yet for the most part a highly enjoyable Cold War era page-turner.
Two caveats: MacLean, a Scotsman, puts far too many Britishisms in the mouths of his American submariners, something I'm very surprised wasn't caught in the editing process.
Also the ending, one of those "let's gather everyone in a room and reveal the murderer" set pieces, seems to belong in a different book, perhaps something written by Agatha Christie or Rex Stout.
Typical Alistair MacLean novel from the 1960s.
nature.
machine.
Man vs.
Man vs.
Man vs.
man (cold war setting).
A rescue mission to a remote polar outpost is much more than it seems.
Adventure at the North Pole with an atomic submarine.
(MacLean loved the sea and loved writing about boats.) Don't worry about character development (there is none) or being tempted by the weaker sex (there are no women in this story).
This is an actioner and we get right down to it from page one.
Loved reading MacLean growing up and still love him today (at least his early stuff anyway).
I Read Ice Station Zebra when i was away at Boarding School 1965 it was the second of Alistair MacLean Novels I Also read and thoroughly enjoyed "Night Without End" was the first I still feel it was the First Book to start my addiction for a good thriller just another Tip for the Author I would have to give this Book 4 stars
Highly Recommended! Rated: 90%And so fantastically it describes the Cold War. Including that its a page-turner, the suspense will create a havoc in your mind and the fact that some of the plot elements are true will blow you away. The characters are very well-written. Equally informative about submarines, the Arctic & the principles of professions that rule the espionage world.
I've been meaning to read this one for a long time. MacLean definitely didn't disappoint - Ice Station Zebra is a gripping tale in a truly unforgiving setting. The perfect recipe for a successful thriller! Just enough "who done it" thrown in to keep you guessing.
This was a great action packed book. I thought it was just about a rescue mission to the North Pole but it turned into so much more than that! And for being a relativity "manly" book it was 100% clean. I couldn't put it down!
This was a great spy novel. I didn't figure out who the villians were until they were revealed. I'm looking forward to reading more by this author.
One of my favorite of MacLean's action adventure thrillers. And ever so much better than the movie.
My favorite MacLean book. I thought it was great, and the movie they made from it was pretty good too.
This is my favorite Alistair Maclean book, and I think I've nearly read them all. I read this one years ago and still remember what a great read it was.
