https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/43928.Deal_Breaker
One of Myron's clients, Christian Steele (a good looking quarterback), calls Myron and asks if Myron can come to his dorm where he lives on campus at Reston University.
Christian shows Myron a porn magazine he received and he believes that his missing girlfriend/fiancé (Kathy Culver) may still be alive because she is pictured in the recent issue of the magazine.
Myron says he will check this out.Myron's ex-girlfriend Jessica Culver, who is the missing Kathy's sister, also asks for Myron's help.
Myron agrees to look into this for his ex-girlfriend, whom he still cares for.This is the second book I've read by this author and I really like his writing style.
I listened to the audio version of Deal Breaker. Myron with his witty sense of humor and sarcasm had me laughing and cringing at the same time. It is an easy, fun and entertaining book. Just what I needed.
So it’s more like a quiet snicker behind his back.’”He’s not a lunatic, but his pal Win might be.
Second is that Christian’s ex-girlfriend, Kathy, disappeared more than a year ago, presumed dead (murdered?), and Christian has just received some strange information in the mail that indicates maybe Kathy’s alive.
She’s convinced it was not a robbery but is connected to Kathy’s disappearance.There’s enough to keep Myron and Win and assorted other characters busy for the rest of the book.
Myron is a likeable guy, Win’s a scary off-sider (a little psychotic?), and the story takes them into questionable places with even more questionable people.
Deal breaker by Harlan Coben is a 2006 Delacorte Press publication.I recently discovered a new Myron Bolitar book is on its way, (in September 2016), which has me feeling stoked, since I always like this series.
But, it got me thinking about how long it’s been since I read a book in this series, since I have been sticking with Coben’s stand alone novels for the most part.
Now that I’ve got my appetite whetted, I think I’ll try to work some of the titles I missed into my reading schedule before the new installment is released.
Fantastic, my favourite Coben book yet! Myron Bolitar is a great character. The writing has its own unique feel due to the tone of Bolitars constant sarcasm and wit. His back and forth with Win are also very well done.I loved the pace of this, it was non stop and the chapter size really help you to fly through this. I might look back and change my rating to five stars, it's a close one. I'll definitely be continuing the series!
Very entertaining. Glad I started this series and I will definitely be reading more. I was fun trying to figure out the mystery along with the characters. And, the fact that it was hilarious helped a lot, too!
I’ve been aware of Harlan Coben’s series of crime/mystery novels starring a sports agent named Myron Bolitar for some time but never read one because I thought it’d be something like Jerry Maguire crossed with Murder She Wrote.
You’ve got an industry with huge amounts of money involved with famous personalities always getting caught up in gambling scandals, dog fighting, rape accusations, domestic violence, drug abuse, manslaughter and the occasional player shooting someone else or themselves so sports is the perfect environment to set a crime novel.Myron was once a college basketball star with Duke (Boo Duke!) before a knee injury ruined his chances for a pro career.
Someone has sent him a pornographic magazine, and in the magazine is a picture of Kathy Culver, suggesting strongly that she may still be alive.The photo raises any number of questions: Is Kathy still alive; if so, why hasn't she contacted Christian or her family?
Why would her picture appear in this disgusting magazine, and why has some anonymous person sent the magazine to the young quarterback?Myron attempts to answer these questions and quickly finds himself ensnared in a very complex mystery with a lot of unreliable and dangerous characters lurking about.
I used to read a lot of mystery thrillers way back before goodreads days so I'd forgotten how much fun they can be. But I don't ever remember them having as much cheeky humour in them. I liked Myron (despite the tragic name). He added a lot of witty sarcasm and kept this from being a humdrum story. It left me definitely wanting more!
An easy to like protagonist who is a sportsagent, a good guy with a background of working with the FBI and with a legal background.
I didn't enjoy this one as much as Six Hours, but still an enjoyable read.I like this authors style of writing, bits of serious stuff, but never losing the 'cool', or maybe this was just Myron?!
This is a book to read if you're on the prowl for a mystery with a clever and honest good guy who is the king of one liners.
Moreover Christian received a phone call from someone who sounds like his missing girlfriend.At about the same time Myron's drop-dead gorgeous ex-girlfriend Jessica Culver (Kathy's older sister) shows up.
In fact, Win is a sociopath (but a lovable one if he's on your side).As Myron does the dual jobs of working out Christian's contract and looking into the 'Nips' and Kathy situation he comes across various thugs and shady characters as well as a college dean, a seductive married woman, a detective, Dr. Culver's best friend, a porn magazine publisher, a porn photographer, Kathy's mother, former college football players, and more.
I only recently read my first Harlan Coben book and liked it so I decided to go back and start at the beginning.
This is #1 in the Myron Bolitar series and despite his odd name Myron is a very likeable character.
I really enjoyed his cynical banter with his off sider Win. And Win himself is a fascinating character, always calm,, cool and collected even when doing what he does best which is beating up the bad guys!
All in all an excellent book and it will not be long before I pick up the next in the series.
I haven’t exactly resisted reading Harlan Coben before, but I somehow didn’t think a mystery series about a sports agent could be that riveting.
I mean, I like teams of sweaty men in skimpy uniforms as much as the next girl, but a sports agent just sounded smarmy and, well, kind of dull.
Myron’s pro-wrestler-turned-night-school-law-student secretary Esperanza is particularly memorable.I listened to DEAL BREAKER in snippets walking around the lake each morning, and it’s absorbing even read with the ear.
Rookie quarterback Christian Steele is about to launch Myron’s career into the big time.
The WoodsHowever, the 9 books that comprise the Myron Bolitar series prompted a binary of my own: Mysteries solved by deduction vs.
Mysteries solved or "settled" by characters possessing unbelievable physical or intellectual powers.
Like Lisbeth Salander, Win's appearance belies his lethal powers and quickness.
Chronologically, the 9 books in Myron Bolitar series are as follows: 1.
Long LostWith the exception of one book, where things do go awry, there's not much suspense in this series, because we know Myron - enhanced by Win and a couple more superpowers in his office - is going to succeed.
I first heard of Harlan Coben three years ago.
Anyway, long story short, this young dude said that the only books he's read and will ever read are Harlan Coben's novels.
So, since I didn't think very highly of that dude, I thought Harlan Coben must be a crap writer.
And I'll confess that I quite enjoyed this first novel in the Myron Bolitar series.
The only thing that somewhat detracted from complete enjoyment was the fact that it felt a bit dated, but that's because I'm reading this 20 years too late.
;-)Anyway, now that the Harlan Coben cherry was popped, I'll be back for more.
Much like Mitch Rapp story telling with handsome men and beautiful women getting into trouble, having flings, bad things happening, lots of snappy repartee, a few creepy mobsters, our main character a handsome Harvard Law graduate sports-agent competing with the hundreds of other agents, apparently an unsavory competitive business. It's a fun, easy, quick read. Not a lot of brain power needed. The book satisfies the need for revenge, appeals a little bit to those of us who like to peak into the seedy side of life and a fairly interesting mystery is solved.
This book is everything I want in a good book.
It was a fun easy read but not total cotton candy trash.
It's the first book in the series but feels like I've picked one up in the middle only because the characters feel so developed.
I -love- it when an author doesn't feel like they have to explain every single thing to you.
I picked it up yesterday morning and didn't do anything until I finished reading it a few hours later.
I'm going to have to be careful about not even buying these books until I have time to read them.
Nude pictures of Christian's missing girlfriend have surfaced and Otto is threatening to release them publicly unless Myron has his client agree to a pretty lousy deal.
Christian's girlfriend, Kathy Culver, is also the sister of Myron's ex-girlfriend Jessica, who asks him to investigate.
Could it get any more convoluted?Myron is a potentially great character for this first book in the series.
I'm rating the book 3.5 stars....It might have been higher if the narration was better.
This is a definite read.Update 3/26/18: I ended up loving the narrator with the next book!
My first Harlan Coben book! I can't even belive it myself. This was a quick read paced with drama, black belt jujitsu, and sarcastic wit. Myron Bolitar is admirable as our ex-pro basketball player turned investigator. He now is a sports agent representing the hottest quarterback around. He gets involvted in a missing persons case that directly impacts the star player and his career. This was a great introduction to Coben and I enjoyed being twisted and turned around while reading this one. Looking forward to reading more of Coben's works.
I have read the other nine Myron Bolitar by Harlan Coben, but somehow I never read this one. DEAL BREAKER gave me insight into things I didn't know about Myron. Very enjoyable first book in the series. However, I like Harlan Coben's later stand alone better.
This is Harlan Coben debut novel and I had no idea what to expect when starting out on this book.
Now I'll have high expectations of the next book I read.By any standards this is a highly entertaining read.
The plot turns and twists enough to keep you guessing.
Just when you think you've got a hold of it, it turns again.
The book does elude to FBI connections for Myron but when and in what capacity your are left to wonder.So, if you like your books to be, fast paced, to keep you guessing and with a modicum of violence you wont go wrong with Deal BreakerThis was good read and I have no trouble recommending it.
This is my first Harlan Coben book but it won't be my last.
He was once a college basketball star on a championship team but a serious injury puts an end to his promising NBA career.
He then does a stint in the FBI but when we first meet him in the book he's turned his attentions into being a sports agent.
We're not told what prompted the odd shift in careers but I'm curious so I hope it gets explained at some point in the series.
This was a fast moving story and the use of humor was great.
4stars.Coben's usual tonic. He's got the best medicine for those who are psyched in crime and mystery thrillers. THE BEST kind.A lot of plot twists. Couldn't be his best ofcourse. I know. But still pleased very much how this turned out .Definitely a page turner.This makes me wanna go through all his books.Lemme start collecting his works. ❤❤❤❤
If you're like me, you fall in love with characters.
If I find a good character, I can read a dozen books in a series.
With Myron Bolitar and Windsor Lockwood III, you have two such characters.
Myron is a quick witted, often hilarious sports agent with a deep backstory.
He then went to Harvard Law and then did work of questionable morality with the Feds.
His past as an athlete informs his ability as an agent while he is drawn into somewhat vigilante investigations by his law enforcement background.
His partner Win is kind of a nut.
A scary nut.
Definitely worth a read.
25 years ago, I thought I may have liked Myron Bolitar, but I really didn't. Win is cooler. 4 of 10 stars
I was surprised that this is the first in the Myron Bolitar series (I've been reading them out of order).
Loved the book and the dry humor of many of the characters.There is a fairly large 'supporting cast' in this story, and for the brief time that you spend with some of them you still get to know enough of the character so that they don't seem flat or just an afterthought.I think that by reading later novels in the series first, I had a different perspective about some of the recurring characters (which, I realize, you don't know about unless you've read the books out of order, too!).
This is the first of Coben's, Myron Bolitar series. I enjoyed this one, because of the plots twists and the fantastic development of both Bolitar and his best friend Win. I did not enjoy that fact that the language was at times much worse than the other novels I have read by him. I did enjoy it and like all of what I have read by him so far...it is a quick read, because you don't want to put it down.
I am a big Harlan Coben fan and had heard great things about his Myron Bolitar series.
So, I went straight to the first book and gave it a go.
So glad that I did!
Myron Bolitar is an incredible character.
He is a sports agent (and ex NBA player) with a big heart and equal wit.
His partner Win, a complete sociopath, is his perfect counterpart.
The two together are magic.
The story is dark and twisty.
I was completely thrown off by the ending and wasn't entirely sold, but still loved the book!Look forward to reading this whole series.
Myron Bolitar and his psycho sidekick Win are two of the more interesting characters developed by Harlen Coben along with a entertaining but bizarre supporting cast that maintains the often hilarious dialogue with great plotting and Coben's comfortable style.I'm always guaranteed a plethora of laughs, guffaws and tear-inducing hilarity from a master of the crime thriller. I recommend this series with a big Thumbs UP!
The debut novel in the Myron Bolitar, sports agent and investigator, series. Myron is representing a number of second rate athletes when he gains a contract with an outstanding young quarter back who is in line for place in the NFL. In the background is his missing girlfriend and sister of Myron's ex girl Jessica. On Myron's side is his psychotic friend and business partner Win Lockwood.Lots of violence, intrigue and men with dubious backgrounds, mixed with a little sarcastic humour. The start of what seems like an excellent series from the king of crime/thriller writing.
