https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/887834.On_A_Chinese_Screen
It is a book about people, or rather how Maugham viewed people, the people he saw and met as he traveled along the Yangtze River in 1919, right after the First World War. The people he met are predominantly expats, European diplomats and missionaries.
The book reads as a collection of mini-mini-stories, observations of and comments about people, as explained above, expats residing in China in 1919.
In just a few words he captures the atmosphere of a marketplace, an alley, mist over paddy fields, the stiff and ridged resplendence of a diplomat’s reception or an opium den for example.I do wish he had told of his route and given us the names of the places he visited.
I loved this little book made up of Maugham's observations of characters and life during his Far East travels.
Despite the fact the book is quite old now, the characterisation was fresh and never felt dated.
Many of the character vignettes could equally be applied to society today and were well-observed and, in part, contained the right level of dry humour.
Some of the people were clearly quite unpleasant and Maugham's gentle and subjective writing never felt superior or sarcastic.
Others were somewhat sad and, again, Maugham wrote those with just the right amount of pathos.
Now and then the birds give a flutter into the air, the length of the string, and return quickly to their perch.
The two Chinese gentlemen, smiling, look at them with soft eyes.
Travel doesn't seem to broaden some people's minds does it!
Interesting snapshots but unfulfilling as a read, probably for WSM completists.2* On a Chinese Screen5* Of Human Bondage4* The Razor's Edge4* The Painted Veil3* Cakes and AleWL Up At the Villa4* Collected Stories3* Tha Magician3* AshendenOH Rain and other stories3* The Narrow Corner3* Mrs CraddockTR The Merry-Go Round2* The Circle4* The Moon and Sixpence
20 APR 2015 - Because Laura is proofreading this for Project Gutenberg, I will read it. Thank you, Laura. Free download at Project Gutenberg, courtesy of Laura! https://www.gutenberg.org/ebooks/48788
Maugham is amazing - his vision of China in a time where no one dreamed of extensive travel is captivating
This short book reads more like a series of journal entries than anything else, noting the differences in Chinese society at that time and how Westerners tend to cope with it.
These are a series of snapshots into different individuals that could have been sketches for stories themselves.
On finishing it, I feel slightly confused over what it was all about, and the only entries I can remember vividly are the ones where he talks about the Chinese labourers or "coolies" as they were known at that time.
A collection of short-short stories and character sketches of Europeans in early 20th century China. Many of the portraits are pretty scathing, but they are generally pretty humane as well. They range from comic to tragic to, in at least one instance, supernatural, but all are told with Maugham's sardonically polite emotional distance. Easy to read, and worth reading.
When cameras were less portable or had not been invented, they took a pad and pencils and sketched.
Somerset Maugham drew word pictures of the things he saw and people he met which (and who) caught his attention.
This book is the equivalent of an album of his holiday snaps.In the preface Maugham says that this is not a book, but the material for a book.
The sketches are not arranged by theme and it is difficult to tell if there is any order to them at all.
I found I enjoyed the sketches more if I read just a few at a time.
Free download available at Project Gutenberg.The original file is available at Internet Archive.And the audio version is also available at LibriVox..
I didn't have big expectations on this one and it was "just" okay. Short chapters, yet a lot of description about everything.
(I found myself rereading the stories several times and imagining their extensions into bigger tales.) It is a collection of short sketches about Europeans living in China during Maugham's 1920 trip into China's interior.
But mostly it describes missionaries adrift and isolated in a culture where their futures seem consigned to obscurity and personal failure of one sort or another.Yet it is the setting of the stories that captures the reader's imagination, here.
As these Europeans work in China and plan on remaining there throughout their lives, they cannot imagine the ravages of war, both the Chinese civil war and the war against Japan, that would come in just a few years.
I enjoyed the glimpses at China Maugham offers us. Living and having travelled around China, I can vividly imagine what Maugham saw with his own eyes. While in some parts the country is rapidly modernizing, in others it hasn't changed at all - the only things not to be found anymore are bound feet, opium dens, and coolies caring the rich in sedan chairs.
It was pleasing to have purchased this book in Shanghai and to have read it with the images of Shanghai and Hangzhou fresh in my mind.
Maugham captures a good deal of the Chinese culture and, from what I saw of The Bund in Shanghai, the Colonial era in full swing.
At times, it is difficult to tell whether Maugham is mocking, mimicking, or satirising the various ways in which an air of cultural superiority was practised by foreigners in China.
Yet it is fascinating reading, particularly in the context of just having visited Shanghai and noting the extent of its Colonial history in the face of ancient culture.
I hold Maugham in such high regard, and he never lets me down.
ON A CHINESE SCREEN is a series of short vignettes based on his observations from a lengthy sojourn in China around 1919.
Portraits of Chinese and Westerners of all varieties, and as always acutely observed and possibly slightly embellished.
It's reportage, a snapshot in time, of a China that had not existed until that time and which soon no longer existed at all.
The one sour note comes when Maugham devotes a lengthy paragraph to describing the Great Wall -- oddly, he oversteps and it just doesn't come off at all.
Fragmented literary sketches of ideas for a future book. Could also be seen as entries in a travel diary. Some of the stories could stand as a chapter in a book but most would have to be a paragraph in a chapter. Not bad, but some end as abruptly as they started and left me wanting to know more.
Maugham’s ‘On a Chinese Screen’, first published in 1922, contains 58 vignettes on 152 pages from the perspective of an Englishman (presumably Maugham) traveling through China.
The majority of these vignettes describe the circumstances of foreigners living in China in the 1910’s.
He had a big trunk and an imposing corpulence, so that when he sat at table he sat a little away from it as though he ate under protest…..But for me the most poignant parts of these mini-stories were when Maugham well captured the sense of isolation and loneliness of the Englishmen and women living in China at that time, unable for a variety of reasons to integrate very much into Chinese society, still with fond memories of life in England now far removed, and hemmed in a very small social island in the middle of a Chinese sea.
I started reading W. Somerset Maugham's On a Chinese Screen on the journey back to Toronto from Niagara Falls. Here, the author presents a series of many vignettes about China, and what life was like there for Westerners. Each piece of the puzzle has been well informed, and whilst some entries are profoundly short, others are much longer character studies, and serve to balance the whole. I was not blown away by the collection, but it does feel rather insightful, and I will certainly be reading more of Maugham's work in future.
Tricky to rate this - as I mentioned in an update earlier tonight, some great but some not so gripping. An interesting (sometimes very interesting), if choppy read.Certainly interested in reading more by the author.
Unfortunately for them there is not merely a usual contingent of the disapproving couples and other respectable members of society but also a preacher very sure and proud of himself, who goes after the woman with denunciation and promised hell fire to all that would consort with her.
She was sincere in her repentance and her attempt to reform, but the high minded preacher all too fallible and unaware of his own Achilles's heel shared with all life, if not more than a little hypocritical in his imposition of his will and his standards of virtue on all and sundry.
I enjoyed this book, but because it's not a story but rather vignettes from his travels to China about 100 years ago, each chapter stood alone and didn't flow with the rest.
Some of the more memorable chapters included one about a doctor who'd been in China for 30 years (so he went out in the 1880s) and always thought he'd encounter difficult living conditions.
So I wonder if the doctor from The Painted Veil was modeled somewhat after this character?
Perhaps that character also played a role in the doctor in The Painted Veil?
It is not easy to get into this book, so not easy to continue after 3-4 stories, and definitely not easy to pick up another Maugham if this is the first.But once dared to be into it, it discovers itself into a great insight about unsettling Europeans on a Chinese land of 18th century.
No elaborate collection of stories or plots, each piece is a snippet of experiences and perceptions drawn from the authors journey across China.
And behold, while this book might seems to be a thin, quick read but take a lot time for grasping each piece.
I did not enjoy this book at all.
Part of it was my fault.
I missed that it was a criticism of foreigners that did not adapt to Chinese culture and thought it will be a people watching account of people that the author met during his journeys.Even after I realized, although it was slightly easier knowing the author shared my criticism, it was still difficult to read.Most of the stories have a different style so you have to get used to it and to the old language seeing as it was written in the 1920s.I kept reading to see if there were some things said about the culture then and there were but not so much.
An unusual collection of short stories or rather frangments of a novel as half of them are written w
This is a collection of ex-pat profiles, mostly of Brits in China, who range from diplomats to sailors to missionaries. Maugham is a very detailed writer of character description. It was written in 1922, but many of the same types of ex-pats are alive and well in China today. Would make an interesting film adaptation.
This collection of impressions is described as "not a book, but material for a book." This is basically a collection of very short prose sketches written by Maugham as he traveled the Yangtze River in 1919 and 1920. As such, it doesn't leave a lasting impression but it was enjoyable. He mainly describes the career expats he encounters.
In 1920, Maugham travelled across China and kept a diary to record his impressions from this visit. 'On a Chinese Screen' is a compilation of these scribblings and notes. While it fails to qualify as 'Travel Writing', the book nevertheless provides a glimpse into life in China in the years preceding the Revolution.
An interesting book for anyone who is interested in China, especially a China that no longer exists. This is not a book with a story line. Rather it is a series of vignettes of Maugham's observations covering all aspects of life. Maugham was an astute observer.
Absolutamente maravilhoso! Há livros cuja leitura se retarda porque não queremos que acabem, este é um deles e, mesmo assim, acho que o vou guardar ainda na mesa de cabeceira para voltar a ele de vez em quando. Assombrosa descrição de paisagens, de ambientes e de pessoas. Imperdível.
A collection of vignettes about China around 1915. Note to other readers, the author writes about a number of people who we would clearly label "bigots" today. This book gives a glimpse into the personalities that made of the foreign delegation in China.
