https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/55360.Guadalcanal_Diary
I first read this book in 1967 as an seventh grader who was forced to pick out a book from the bookmobile by my mother.
All I wanted to do was play that summer and I chose a "war book" out of spite.
This book was written in a time when not only were there war time censors but also those who monitored content for things that were morally and socially acceptable for the public at large at the time.
In spite of these "handicaps" the author told a tale that was not only facinating but historically accurate as well.
Richard Tregaskis is a journalist who tags along with the U.S. Marines when they invade Guadalcanal during WWII.
Each day he records what he sees and hears for the people back home in the U.S. Where Tregaskis succeeds is in his description of Guadalcanal and the surrounding islands.
For example, Tregaskis writes about bombing raids and air raid drills occurring every single night.
In another strange part of the book, Moana Tregaskis writes the afterword but nowhere do they tell us who she is.
Wife, daughter, niece of Tregaskis?
Just another missing gap in this book.
It sounds trite, but the effects of war, the mark it leaves on the those who fight it, is always more interesting to me than the mechanics of combat or tactics.
Luckily the dates of the Guadalcanal invasion stuck with me -- along with the Marine divisions involved -- and I was able to find a large number of grave markers for Marines who died in the first few days of the invasion, leaving little doubt in my mind about where and how they died.
Guadalcanal--a battle that remains a milestone in the history of WWII. Along with Midway, it became a turning point in the Pacific. The author wrote of those violent days without resorting to hyperbole. It may not be the definitive book on Guadalcanal, but it is very readable.
(He would participate in several campaigns culminating on Peleliu where is was one of 11 Marines out of his original company to walk off the island.) There is that personal connection that makes this not just some far off point of history but an event that affected someone I knew.
Unlike today so few books were written in the first hand experience of combat in World War II.
Most books covering that time period are cold analytic pieces that almost read like a chess game as pieces move about the game board.
His accounts are a straightforward narrative of the action, without the ego puff that a khaki and Rayban-wearing modern 'war correspondent' would inject.
A modern correspondent uses the word "I" much more than Tregaskis ever did.
A recommended read, for those who are beginning to forget the horrors of WWII or for those who never gave the horrors of war a thought; in other words, those who would readily wield our young men and women soldiers as a political tool and send them to their deaths in unnecessary wars.
This was an interesting, if not exceptional account of the events of the first several weeks of the battle for Guadalcanal.
Richard Tregaskis gives a clear view of his experience of the battle and for a press correspondent seems to have had tremendous bravery to see things "from the front".
I suppose that is because, as Tregaskis admits, the first time he saw such scenes was a shock but he felt nothing after that.
It did leave the book feeling overall a bit detached and clinical which made it tough going in parts.
That's not to detract overall from this, still a very much recommended read for those interested in WWII.
This is an actual diary (edited for readability) of a war correspondent who landed with the Marines on Guadalcanal on 1943. He was not shy about joining them in their expeditions and patrols, and spent a lot of time lying flat on the ground listening to Japanese bullets snap overhead, or sitting in a bunker during the Japanese Navy's regular night bombardment. The volume I read was printed the very year of the landing. It would be very interesting to read this in parallel with a modern campaign history, to compare the grunt's-eye view with the historian's.
I’m in the process of trying to get a feel for what it was like on Guadalcanal because my dad fought there with the 25th Inf Div. The 25th didn’t arrive until December of 1942 well after the Marines went in.
Tregaskis did not issue ‘dispatches’ he kept notes and didn’t actually write the book until he got back to Pearl Harbor with his ‘satcheful of notes.’The book stands the test of time well even though if anything it understates the severity of the conditions the Marines faced.
Rather, the book is written as a description of what it was like to be involved in the on-going struggle.
The author also was very descriptive in his reporting of the battles and the manner in which the enemy was killed.
It makes it much easier to kill an enemy that is less than a human and that you viscerally hate.I recommend this book to any reader of military history and also to anyone who might wonder what it is like to be in battle.
Richard Tregaskis kept detailed notes from his work for the International News Service as he joined the U.S. Marines in taking Guadalcanal -- one of the most important engagements of the Pacific war.
I also recommend Tregaskis's Invasion Diary (about the war in Italy; he was severely wounded near Monte Cassino, but within a few months returned to his work, joining Gen. Patton in recording the last thrust of the European war).One particular thing I have noted with World War II correspondents -- they provide names and cities of residence for those they interviewed and worked with.
This is a journalist's reporting of our first invasion in the Pacific that was also supposedly the first use of air, land and sea resources in an amphibious invasion.
He lived on the island for more than a month in harsh conditions, and he took a lot of risks accompanying marines and Raiders on assaults, raids and the main invasion.
The enemy had more than 10 to 1 superiority in local numbers at the point of attack, but they were repulsed by the Marines and raiders on what the journalist christened Edson's ridge.
This book is considered a model of war reporting by later military journalists and writers.
Unusual military memoir in that he published it as a book immediately after he returned from Guadalcanal. During the war. With names of individuals he interacted with and where they came from. The details are great and focused more on how men at war live and work than on military strategy.I was intrigued by his size 14 shoes--he had a hard time getting replacements from the Army. Turns out his was 6 ft 7 in, especially tall for the 1940s. He also had diabetes and carried along insulin. Presumably the army didn't know that.
I'm rating this only two stars ONLY because it is not exactly a pleasant or cheerful read. It is brutal, cold, raw, and ferocious. However, its place in the canon (get it? canon?) of WWII historical documents is well-established and firmly assured.It is one of the finest works of its kind. Nevertheless, it is somewhat dry. Not for the 'casual' reader.
A gyrene's perspective on America's first step back across the Pacific. Great battlefield reporting from a noted war correspondent. The movie's a hoot, with geezer William Bendix as a Marine!
Candid account of the most harrowing days the Marines faced at GuadalcanalRichard Tregaskis arrived with the Marines at Guadalcanal in July 1942, just prior the the most brutal fighting that took place between elements of the USMC and the Japanese defenders on the island.
However, Tregaskis’ published diary did not hold back as he reflected on both the conspicuous acts of bravery (e.g. one American sergeant, having been wounded thrice in the leg by shrapnel, belly-crawled a hundred yards to take over a deuce-and-a-half truck carrying wounded Americans after the driver was killed by small arms fire) and the unspeakable horrors of modern warfare.
On several occasions he either witnessed or heard from eye-witnesses that Japanese prisoners-of-war asked Americans to kill them or provide them with knives to commit suicide.
This book is a good read if you would like to learn more about soldier life, and what happened on Guadalcanal.
At first, their group of soldiers are expected to encounter enemy forces on the beach, like at Normandy, but when they arrive, they are left to silence.
I assume the enemy left early because of the U.S. navy dropping some bombs on the island to soften it up.
I would recommend this book to anyone who would like to learn more about the Pacific region of war in WWII or just WWII in general.
I don't recall why I purchased the ebook--probably because I'd read that it was a landmark in boots-on-the-ground reporting that inspired many other war reporters and novelists such as Norman Mailer and James Jones--but I didn't enjoy it.
I didn't feel like I was there in the jungle, experiencing what the soldiers experienced.
Also, the racist epithets used for Japanese soldiers are offensive and tiresome to modern readers.
They wore me down.But here's something I did enjoy about the book: Tregaskis's descriptions of the sounds of battle, often resorting to onomatopoeic words to describe noises.
This book had some great scenes that really captured me but just didn’t put all the pieces together.
It was written as soon as the author left Guadalcanal, 9 months after Pearl Harbor, so the author didn’t have the benefit of hindsight yet to know what this pivotal invasion meant in the grand scheme of the Pacific war.
while his descriptions are often vivid (especially the American landing invasion in Guadalcanal, the terror of the daily air raids, and the battles of the Tenaru and Bloody Ridge) there is a lack of discussion of the strategy behind the Japanese counter-invasion.
1st Person Narrative of GuadalcanalThis history of the Guadalcanal campaign is a diary by the young correspondent who covered the war for a leading news service of the day. Modern readers might be offended by the terms "Jap" and "Nip" for Japanese, but that was how it was in 1943.The book offers great insight into the day to day events of the campaign that was the turning point of WW II in the Pacific.
My book that I read was about the Marines that fought against the Japanese on Guadalcanal. The Marine that tells the story is at base and heres about the invasion. He asks to be moved to that group and he is. Later on in the book him and the rest of the Marines are put on the island and forces the Japanese out. S bit Later on they get in combat and get pinned by some enemy fire but make it out and take the island.
An immersive and compelling account An immersive, real time account of the American invasion of Guadalacanal. Tregaskis’ work is simple yet compelling. While the vernacular of the time seems quaint it serves mainly to remind the reader of the era and that this work is not just an history of battle but reflections of personal experience, as things happened. A great read from a remarkable human.
Honoring the sacrifice of WW2 veteransSince my father and uncle were World War 2 veterans (my uncle in the Pacific theater), I was very excited to read this book. The approach taken in the writing was direct and down to earth. I truly got the sense of the muck, mud, weather, anguish and the can do attitude in the face of continuing struggles over the months Tregaskis covered the battlefield. I would highly recommend this book.
It was written while World War II was still in full progress and it was probably one of the first personal experience true stories of war. I think in that way it set a precedent and standard for future true accounts of difficult struggles and war. Reading it now, it seems a bit dated and protective of reader sensibilities. If written today it would be much more gritty. But this one is truthful, honest and unadorned. Read it as if the war was still in full rage.
GuadalcanalHaving lost an Uncle in one of these battles from the 1st Marine Division 1st Engineering Battalion Company B I have been interested in learning about this encounter. This book is excellent in describing what occurred on this island although the author leaves a few days before his battle.
The Courage to Be AmericaGuadalcanal Diary not only gives a day by day account of the WWII American battle for Guadalcanal but vividly declares the American spirit of courage and resolve unto victory. A must read lest we forget that freedom isn't free; it is won and maintained by relentless and courageous devotion to our American homeland.
Great read by one of the best.This book tells the story of the men who fought the battle considered the turning point of the war in the Pacific. Unlike many books of this type the negative politics are absent and we are the good guys. It's nice to read a story about brave men written by a man that was there.
published in 1943, an excellent first hand account of the war in Guadalcanal as told by war correspondent Richard Tregaskis. His first of several books is a first hand account of him living, eating , sleeping and everything else on the front lines of battle during the first few weeks of the Guadalcanal Campaign.
This book is an excellent account of some of the things that happened at Guadalcanal. My father was involved in that battle. He was a frogman(Now known as Navy Seals). He never spoke of any of his missions. This gives me a small bit of what he was involved in. I highly recommend this book. Everyone should read it. It should be read in all history classes.
Stepping back in timeReporting from the front lines on Guadalcanal, Richard Tregaskis captured the day to day struggle that US marines endured for over two months in order to capture and secure the island. A book that personalizes the experience of young men and officers doing the work necessary to win back the pacific.
