https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/58890.Tris_s_Book
I like the characters - I usually do when it comes to Tamora Pierce books.
Tamora Pierce can create a world where gender equality and racial diversity are THE NORM, and she can do it without drawing any attention to it - without going "ooooh, look what I did there." I am ashamed to say that I caught myself incorrectly assuming that background soldiers, etc., were male until a pronoun was used.
I hope that someday I will reach the point where I stop making these assumptions and assume racial diversity and gender equality instead.(I read Fire by Kristin Cashore right after this and could feel the contrast.
I always love this series. I'd hesitate to say more than the Tortall books, because they're so different, but there's something both beautiful and brutal about these books that both heals and hurts. Reading through this one with the Mark Reads community was especially hard at the moment, because of the family themes that it explores for Tris and the discussions that came up on one particular post about dysfunctional families. Still, the way the relationships that are formed in these books are so real and wonderful and that's why I love them.
Still pretty interesting and I love the kids and their teachers. The workings of magic need a little concentration to conceptualize.
Review to come!
Second in the Circle of Magic fantasy series for young middle-grade readers and revolving around the four young mages we met in  Sandry's Circle , 1. It's also the second in the overall Emelan series.It's been two months since Sandry's Circle.My TakeTrisana learns more about her magic: why she hears voices.Mmm, I'm uncomfortable with the comment Frostpine makes about black people. It smacks too much of bigotry for me, even if Frostpine is a black person.Pierce reminds us to not judge a book by i
It's also the second in the overall Emelan series.It's been two months since Sandry's Circle.My TakeTrisana learns more about her magic: why she hears voices.Mmm, I'm uncomfortable with the comment Frostpine makes about black people.
It's also good for kids to learn not to judge.
Aymery Glassfire Chandler is Tris's cousin, and he's learning how to use his magic at the university in Lightsbridge.
She's apprenticing with Fire Dedicate Frostpine, a great smith-mage.
Kirel is Frostpine's apprentice.Briar Moss has a gift for plants and still retains his skills from his days as a thief.The temple is……a place of learning and magic.
Tris's Book picks up after the giant earthquake in Sandry's book.
We seen that the four kids have grown in their magical powers and Tris in particularly is still haunted by the earthquake.
The rest have been healed by finding her true family with Daja, Sandry and Briar.
The other thing I love about this series if the kids' mentors.
For me, Rosethorn really shined in this book.
She so obviously cares about the kids, especially Briar.
I'm excited to see what's in store for my kids in book 3.
Why wasn't I reading these books when I was a goat kid? Oh, right, because they were published after I was in college and stuff. Still, they're great, and I'm really enjoying them a lot. BRING ON DAJA!
I loved that we essentially got a new animal companion in this one, with the addition of a baby starling - though with the way that the starling was spoken of, I'm not sure it'll be here to stay for the long run (i.e. in the upcoming books) as starlings were described as kinda just being raised and then escaping the nest to go do their own thing :PIt was pretty neat being able to meet someone from Tris's family in this, especially after all the stories she'd told about them essentially giving her away because she didn't have magic like they wanted to (jokes on you a**holes, she DOES have magic).
I don't know what about the book makes that happen in my head, but I don't think it reflects well on it.Tris definitely got more development in this book, but I feel like the attention the other kids got was more superficial.
Like when you start Harry Potter, you may not know from the first book that it's going to go in this whole "horcruxes scavenger hunt" direction, but at least you have the idea that the overall goal of the series is to see Harry defeat Voldemort.
Also posted on my blog Got My Book. This MG Fantasy doesn't shrink from the truth about Pirates.BOOK DETAILS: Tris's Book  by Tamora Pierce, read & published by Full Cast Audio (2004) / Length: 5 hrs 31 minSERIES INFO:This is Book #2 of 4 in the original "Circle of Magic" series, all of which are available on audio. There are also additional books (only some of which are on audio) with the same characters.**This review may contain spoilers for the previous book.**SUMMARY:One of the things I
In this book, their magic begins to bleed a bit around edges.Two great character moments are 1) when they are all at the breakfast table and Sandry accurately guesses what each of the others is probably thinking; and 2) when Nico tells Tris a combined spell won't work unless she trusts him, and she's all "of course" (a sharp contrast to her inability to trust anyone in the first book).That's not to say that the 4 of them have completely changed and don't still have a ways to go before they move beyond their difficult backgrounds.WORLDBUILDING:As I stated in the previous book, Ms. Pierce does her usual incredible job in this area.
A fun, mostly light story. They dealt with harder things in this book, like the consequences of Tris losing control of her powers. But in the end, good always wins, bad always gets what it deserves. Looking forward to continuing the re-read of this series!
It's just that this...felt so much like the latter half of Wild Magic by Pierce, that I couldn't like it.
Tris also reminds me very much of Daine, the heroine of the Wild Magic series.It's not that this book is a bad book, it's decent.
The Numair/Niko similarities continue, and I get more weird/creepy bad!touch feelings from Niko in this book.
And Niko just gives me bad!touch feelings.I will continue to read the Circle of Magic books, and their sequels, because I can't not finish a series that I somewhat like.
Book #2 of the Circle of Magic books has a serious case of the 'blahs, second book' feeling.
It felt a little rushed, and it didn't have the advantage of introducing the world and the characters.
It did have much more of a clear focus on its main character this time (Tris, obviously).
Mostly, though, the thing with the pirates felt a little manufactured, and because it was also feeling rushed at the time, I don't think there was enough emphasis on the kids really feeling the consequences of their actions.
I still really like the way the relationship between all the kids is progressing, but my favorite is their relationship their teachers, especially Briar and Rosethorn for some reason.
I love the depth of language that Tamora adds into all her books.
I've learned quite a few "trader" words.
Tris really grows as a character in this book.
I love that the children are starting to realize the danger of their immense power!Edit: added detail!I hate Amery for hurting Tris!
I rarely understand people like him who are willing to hurt others to personal or/and monetary gain.
I'm still impressed with how much the children's powers have grown and potentially how scary atria will become when she learns to control her powers!
I'm looking forward to Daja's book next!!!
I forgot how quickly these go. But that's a good thing here: Pierce is her best when she's less verbose. In fact, the blunter she is, the better; she can do more with actions and speech than with descriptions.Tris's Book is good - things are coming together more. The novel is still open-ended and clearly just one part of a series, but there's enough of a complete story in it to make it feel satisfying.
Personally, I think that Tris is one of the most believable characters in this series. She has very real and believable insecurities and acts out just like a teenager would do at that age. That being said, she's not my favorite character because she is so prickly. Still the plot of this one was a bit more complex than the previous novel with an actual enemy to fight against. The characters are interesting and well developed and overall it's an enjoyable read.
WHOOPS I read this all in one go, literally no one is surprised \_(ツ)_/ (On a more serious note: I love how Tammy makes these four kids face consequences. Also, it's so fun to go back to this "just learning everything" phase of their lives? They're always learning, of course, but it's so NEW to them in this quartet.)
WHOOPS I read this all in one go, literally no one is surprised ¯\_(ツ)_/¯ (On a more serious note: I love how Tammy makes these four kids face consequences. Also, it's so fun to go back to this "just learning everything" phase of their lives? They're always learning, of course, but it's so NEW to them in this quartet.)
This series so far could be a solid 3-1/2 or come in at above a 4. Ms. Pierce's story telling style here could involve some discussion, which of course I'm not going to be able to do at this moment. I found it very different from her Tortall series, which I devoured. I like it. I'll finish the various series.
Loved this book, still love this book, honestly think I enjoy the Circle of Magic books more than the Tortall series. Briar makes me laugh and I adore Sandry + Tris is BAMF (so is Daja for that matter).
review to come :)

Tris attempts to master her weather-witch skills and saves the circle from invading pirates who threaten the tranquility of the Winding Circle Temple Community, acting as surrogate mother to an orphaned starling along the way. Another charming and engaging book from Pierce, which has a slightly more mature feel than the Alanna or Daine series.
Well written with solid characters and an interesting world that's very well developed. It's a very solid YA, and this book did improve from the first one which felt a bit disjointed. Now that we have a grasp of the characters and the world, the author is focusing more on the story and character development. It's cute and definitely worth a read!
Tris would have had a Livejournal AND a Myspace that auto-played all the emo hits of the 00's. Love her.
This series is growing on me! I really like the characters and how different they are.
I set this series aside a while back...but returned to it. It's good but doesn't shine like my Pierce favorites.
BIRB. BABBY BIRB."I love me." I love you too, Briar. And I love these kids. Like some of Pierce's series, the second book has more of a plot than the first, with an actual Sinister Plan in the works and also the invention of gunpowder. There is much delicious magic. And a birb.
It picks off where the first book left off, and is stronger for it.Of course, we do learn some more about the background of the characters - the four children especially - but, thankfully, this doesn't slow down the story at all.I was surprised at how much violence there was in this one.
It happened, it just felt more controlled and I didn't get jolted out of the story as often.I like how the relationships between the children are developing, and I also like that they are teaching each other things.
The four children of Discipline Cottage, with a particular focus on Tris, gather their magic together to help in the defenses and eventual battles.
Tris gets a chance to face down many demons from her past, including the family who didn't seem to care for her until she showed herself valuable as a mage.
It may be a bit less popular with girl-averse readers, since it does have three girl main characters to one boy, but that's most of Pierce's books, really.
My actual rating is 3.5 stars.I was so disappointed with Sandry's Book that I wasn't looking forward to reading this at all, but out of loyalty to Tamora Pierce, I wanted to continue on and give the series another shot.
This book was fun and exciting, and with Tris being one of my favorite characters (along with Briar), I was glad to see so much of the focus on her.I loved the action of this book.
A big improvement over Sandry's Book, which was slow and mostly expository, it felt like.
And I really love the dynamic between Tris and Briar.
In Sandry's Book, the climax felt very rushed and almost like a deux ex machina.
