https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/8855321-leviathan-wakes
You can make space opera (or epic fantasy or whatever) that is "dark" and "gritty" and still fun to read, with characters that are fun to read about.
Besides, we've got enough to keep ourselves busy: colonizing space hasn't exactly united humanity, and Earth, Mars and the Outer Planets Alliance operate under an uneasy truce, with heavy prejudices on all sides.This stuff is very well thought out.
It's the book I have been looking for every time I picked up a space epic.
I've been gorking out on Urban Fantasy and Romance lately, so mixing it with a FANTASTIC Space Opera was JUST what I needed!I loved this book because in a lot of ways it humanized a BIG SF world in a way that is normally tough.
I cared about the characters, I yelled at them a lot, and I enjoyed every minute!
It felt modern and current, and created a really believable world that I wanted to live in and learn about.
I recommend to anyone who enjoys Sci-Fi!And I guess it's part of a future trilogy?
Plus, I have no urge to join the ranks of fans of other fantasy writers who seem to spend more time coming up with excuses and side projects rather than producing new books to finish their on-going series.Ignorance isn’t a good defense, but it’s all I can claim.
Put those two guys in a society built out among our solar system’s asteroid belt that is about to go to war with Earth and Mars as they try to unravel the conspiracy behind it, and you’ve got yourself a pretty damn compelling sci-fi story.I still kinda feel like a rube though….Update 2/7/17 - You can tell from the original review I posted that I had a lot of misgivings about starting an unfinished series back when I first read this.
and a clear lack of operatic emotions on display as well.
overall, it is not terribly written per se - it just is the very definition of flat and uninspiring.
maybe i've been too spoiled by the likes of Iain M.
Banks, Vernor Vinge, Peter Hamilton, and now Alastair Reynolds; i am unable to be impressed by something that is so lacking in genuine excitement or genuinely complex world-building.
there was nothing at stake for me and my mind was definitely not blown.
each time i re-opened this novel, it was like buying a first class ticket to snoozeville.
Reviewed by: Rabid ReadsHere's another Jessica quirk: I LOVE sci-fi on screen, but I rarely like reading it. I have no idea why. Some things just are. BUT. I binge-watched  The Expanse  last week, and it was good enough that it made me curious. There were no giant-insects-as-aliens, no surplus of tech gobbledygook, and no discernible artificial intelligence (the things that make me avoid sci-fi literature, even though I can usually handle the movie version), and what there was was mysteriously m
There were no giant-insects-as-aliens, no surplus of tech gobbledygook, and no discernible artificial intelligence (the things that make me avoid sci-fi literature, even though I can usually handle the movie version), and what there was was mysteriously mysterious, plus, you know, SPACE, so pretty great, IMO.The story revolves around two male MCs, Jim Holden, the XO of the ice-hauling freighter Canterbury, and Joe Miller, a washed-up, "prototypical Noir dectective" (description stolen from 
”Way I see it, there’s three ways this can go,” Miller said. “One, we find your ship still in dock, get the meds we need, and maybe we live. Two, we try to get to the ship, and along the way we run into a bunch of mafia thugs. Die gloriously in a hail of bullets. Three, we sit here and leak out of our eyes and assholes.” Well, really, the story begins when some alien species shoot a payload of virus at Earth and misses. This virus is capable of turning the human race into piles of nasty, smelly
Expanded by the beginning of a conflict that will spread across the known universe, but his world has also contracted down to the confining corridors of the small ship that he and his remaining crew members are trying to keep afloat.
This section of the universe is shared between Earth, Mars, and what are called the Belters.
One last little tidbit from Miller which I found rather funny as I’m holding this 16 pound trade paperback novel in my hands: ”The OPA man, Anderson Dawes, was sitting on a cloth folding chair outside Miller’s hole, reading a book.
This review along with a recipe for Mariner Valley skillet lasagna is now featured on my blog Recipe & a Read: https://recipeandaread.wordpress.com/...So lets start this one off with the truth: I'm not a sci-fi fan.
In an environment as hostile to life as space, the aid and goodwill of your fellow humans wasn’t optional.When Holden and his crew board the Scopuli they have no idea what they will find and how this lone decision will be the catalyst that will change their lives forever.
The beginning got a bit bogged down for me and veered into the hard sci-fi that I'm not a big fan of.
I went looking for some background on the collaboration, and the duo offered up a few thoughts on Scalzi's blog and in an appealing three-part Youtube video interview with author Carrie Vaughn: http://youtu.be/Yu0xJpCy95oInitially, a fragmented viewpoint had trouble luring me in, but once the authors settled down for an exchange of viewpoints between Holden, an "executive officer" on an ice hauling deep-space freighter of outcasts, and Detective Miller, a world-weary member of an asteroid peace-keeping force, it was suddenly became completely absorbing.
One reason I don't spend much time in deep-space sci-fi is the tendency to focus on world and tech-building at the expense of character and plot.
At times, you feel like you're reading a pulp crime detective novel in the spirit of Raymond Chandler, but Leviathan Wakes does more than answer questions about who done it (although who and what things happen become part of the ongoing drive of the plot).
As in so much of really good science fiction, the question of what it means to be human and the moral implications of asking and acting on assumptions of that question are explored.
It just seems to happen in the natural progression of the story.
None of them are either totally good or bad or think in black and white.8/2/2018.
Ty Franck initially created The Expanse as the setting for a MMO role-playing game.
He created a solar system that included colonies on the Moon, Mars, the asteroid belt and faraway planets, ruled by three major factions; Earth, Mars and the Outer Planets.
He later started to run it as a text based role-playing game on a gaming forum, and there, the story began to form along with the characters, but eventually, the participants lost interest.Franck met Abraham at the science fiction convention but they became friends much later when Franck joined the local collective of science fiction writers called Critical Mass, with members such as Abraham, Martin, Tregillis, among others.
A fair option of new science-fiction book series.  FRESH SCIENCE FICTION I have a lot of curiousity about this series since it seemed like a very good option in new sci-fi. I mean, out of the obvious well-known sci-fi space opera books in the market, this "Expanse" series sounded like a good way to read something fresh in the field of sci-fi.And I was right. I liked the book. First of all, maybe you already know but anyway, I want to mention that "James S.A. Corey", the author, is a pen name us
I mean, out of the obvious well-known sci-fi space opera books in the market, this "Expanse" series sounded like a good way to read something fresh in the field of sci-fi.And I was right.
After you get the tech babble and socio-political situation, you will see it that it's not so hard to understand at all.In the first part of the story, you will get two different genres, the standard space opera that you would expect to find but also you will get a true crime noir novel here, since the book has two main protagonists: Holden, a space hero; and, Miller, a detective cop.I have hard times to like Holden, it's not like that he isn't a nice guy, but maybe he is too nice.
Even *I* would buy it at that price...if I hadn't already read it.**UPDATE 24 JUNE 2018** I love the series, now in its third season, a lot.
I couldn't have been more wrong about the series, though I still don't like the books.
When he and his crew stumble upon a derelict ship, The Scopuli, they find themselves in possession of a secret they never wanted.
War is brewing in the system unless he can find out who left the ship and why.Detective Miller is looking for a girl.
No way would I read the next book!
Sure, not quite true, but I DID watch the Expanse episodes encompassing this book.
Pure love.This is the gold standard for space opera.
It's as close to genius as this kind of story can get.
Original Review:Fantastic Space-Opera!
I was frankly delighted by the story and ideas.
I've read quite a few novels that couldn't match this one.I am tempted to compare this, slightly, to the tone and complexity available in Brin's Startide Rising.
Leviathan Wakes was my first intro into the Expanse and I'll be looking forward to reading all of the rest, including the not-yet-released 4th book, with great anticipation.Great, great space opera!
But what does that have to do with a detective on Ceres tasked with finding a missing rich girl and bringing her back to Earth?I'm only seven years late to the party on this but what's the point of watching a TV show based on a book without being able to annoy everyone by pointing out the differences?
This one was more Firefly than Star Wars but I liked it quite a bit.Told using two different viewpoint characters, Leviathan Wakes is the story of a war unfolding between Earth, Mars, and the Belters, denizens of various asteroid settlements.
3.75ish stars.Good, old-fashioned outer space sci-fi.
It's obviously influenced by the old-school greats, and if I'm being honest, doesn't add a lot of novelty to the genre, but it broke me out of a deadly reading slump for which I'll be forever grateful.
Who knew such a chunkster could be such a fast read?There's some awesome world-building going on, particularly the disparity between the inner and outer planets, and the differences in physiology of their respective inhabitants.
I'm simultaneously reading and watching the SyFy TV series and find that they clarify and complement each other well.Also there are vomit zombies.
If nothing else, read for the vomit zombies.Posted in Mr. Philip's Library
Confession Time: I'm very bad at categorizing genres and sub-genres, so it didn't dawn on me that Leviathan Wakes would be considered a "space opera" until I saw it in the genre listing on the book's Goodreads page.
Thanks, Audible!So let's get down to business and talk about how much I loved this book.
Great, believable, and realistic characters, an interesting plot, fantastic scope and worldbuilding, just the right amount of plausibility to make it terrifying, brilliant humor that was perfectly timed and hit just the right notes to make me laugh out loud, and it had what were awesomely called 'vomit zombies'.
For all its competence in execution, nothing particularly wowed me in the way that I’d need it to to give it, say, 5 stars.Here are the flaws that almost tipped it to 3:Miller - a great addition when he’s working off the rest of the team; a depressing arse with not entirely convincing motivations when he’s on his own.The length - this feels extremely bloated.
The plot is constantly moving, there’s always something happening and as far as I can see, every piece feels necessary to get to the end, BUT, it’s not always a fun ride.
http://dms.booklikes.com/post/382103/...
3.75 - This space opera meets crime noir is a great start to a series I'm looking forward to continuing!
Mars has become a system wide power.The authors (James S.A. Corey is the pen name for two collaborators) have done an exceptional job at imagining and describing a post-colonization universe where the technical demands of deep space exploration and colonization, and the resulting socio-economic idiosyncrasies, have created a detailed system of competing and contrasting political and corporate societies.
I can see where writers like Rhett Bruno may have been inspired by this artistic vision.The characterization is also better than average, the central protagonists are drawn so that the reader is immersed in the setting and comes to know the players as they interact.The length is not overwhelming but I think that – knowing that this was going to be a series – a better, more manageable size would have been episodic novellas.
Simultaneously, on Ceres station, Belter detective Miller is sent so bring back the daughter of a rich investor from Luna but that isn't as straightforward a job as he first thought either.While there are political tensions across the Solar system, a group of scientists has discovered and is tinkering with something on a wholly different level and soon it's about nothing less than the survival of humanity.Thus, Holden's and Miller's paths cross and we get a mad dash from one space station to another, from one horriffic incident to the next until a quite disturbing end of this first volume.I'm a fan of scifi stories and have been for a while.
But right now I can say this is one of my favorite science fiction novels ever!
I absolutely loved the way the science of this universe was incorporated into this story.
The climax of the novel is so fast paced with many last-minute dangers and twists thrown in, it was one of the most thrilling sequences I've ever read.A brilliant mix of classic noir-driven style of writing with a more modern action-based story, I recommend this book for any fans of science-fiction.
I can't wait to read more about "The Expanse" universe!
This is one of the many reasons why having Goodreads friends is so awesome.I would have never read, much less even heard of this book had it not been for some GRs buddies with impeccable taste.
And believe me, it took some coaxing to get me to read a 560 page space odyssey.
This book should ideally be read in as close to one sitting as possible, not in dribs and drabs, here and there.
Even if you think you don't like science fiction, try setting aside a chunk of time for this one.That's all you're getting out of me.
I do want to see where the characters might go next, however, which is a good sign.I am trying to read a wide variety of Science Fiction novels and novellas this year because I am so very sure there will be books that I will absolutely adore; it is a genre I have not read enough of and I think that needs to be remedied.
That feeling of spending time with my boyfriend really did help the book and is one of the reasons I am excited to keep reading the series, at least another book.You can find this review and other thoughts on my blog.
It's amazing how his writing changes to fit the genre and yet stays the same in delivering the human elements and subtlety that I love so much.
This book is so multi layered encompassing space opera, detective thriller mystery, military combat, a potential dystopian pandemic......and yet it's the characters that drive the story.
Their little personality quirks, childhood traumas coming back, parental issues, relationship scars both past and present all drive the story.
If you've been afraid to try space opera because it's not one of your favorite genres I think this will resonate for those looking to try something new but not be overwhelmed.
When his ship gets lured in by a"Help" signal from another vessel, theirs is irreparably damaged and Holden, following his overlarge sense of "justice" and the right of all to know the "truth", publicly broadcasts the little information he has, which implicates Mars in trying to sabotage the Belt and their receiving what they need to survive, inadvertently starting a war between Mars and the Belt.
I hated, just HATED when he decided he had any right to judge Miller for the actions he took, when the detective was a 100 times more aware of what is going on and what the consequences of his every move would be and would lead to.
[4.5 Stars] Ugh, I absolutely loved this one. It got half a star knocked off because I felt like the women in the book were really just there because they were love interests. I wanted something a bit more. I think we will get that, but still I LOVED THIS BOOK SO MUCH OH MY GOODNESS. Miller, Miller... I just can't.
These differences along with the dependence on Earth no matter where anyone is make for difficult times politically and a solar-system on the brink of outright war at any given moment.LW follows from the viewpoints of two characters (not counting the prologue and the epilogue), one a captain of a transport ship (Jim Holden) and the other an investigator (Detective Miller).
Holden is an Earther and Miller a Belter.There are mysteries, set-ups, and atrocities (and even vomit-zombies!) and yet it really comes down to the characters despite how captivating the plot is or even how intriguing the ideas are.The characters are the best.
The year is not indicated in the book so my guess is about 100 years from now, 200 tops!The book is an interesting hybrid of noir detective and space opera, with a touch of Lovecraftian horror.
Both the space opera and the noir detective aspects of the book work reasonably well in the first half of the book though I did find the pacing flag a bit from time to time.
It seems like belaboring the obvious, still it does not really detract from the book, just a minor irritation.The authors made quite a lot of effort to develop the characters, especially the two main protagonists.
It had been a while since I'd read a straight-up space opera sci fi, so I gave it a try and loved it.I especially liked the scope of the novel, which is set a few centuries in the future, when humanity has colonized much of the solar system but still has not reached the stars (or found alien life).
Against this backdrop, two men from very different backgrounds are pulled into a horrifying mystery -- a disappearing ship, a girl with a complicated past, a Black Ops attack that threatens to start a solar-system-wide war, and a discovery that could change or destroy humanity.The mystery will keep the pages turning.
An adult novel, but YA sci fi fans will also love it.
