https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/67522.The_Collected_Poems_of_Emily_Dickinson
Can you write a book reviewEntirely in verse?Omitting standard sentencesFor stanzas taut and terse?I
The Complete Poems of Emily Dickinson, Emily Dickinson (1830 - 1886)Here is the real Emily Dickinson -- the only comprehensive and reliably authoritative trade editions of the poet's work.I hide myself within my flower, That wearing on your breast, You, unsuspecting, wear me too And angels know the rest. I hide myself within my flower,That, fading from your vase, You, unsuspecting, feel for me Almost a loneliness. تاریخ نخستین خوانش: روز هجدهم ماه فوریه سال 2012 میلادیعنوان: به خاموشی نقطه ها ..
بر صفحه ی برف ...: گزیده نامه ها و اشعار؛ شاعر: امیلی دیکنسون؛ مترجم: سعید سعیدپور؛ مشخصات نشر: تهران، مروارید، 1379، در 355 ص، شابک: ایکس 964602677؛ گزینش شعرها از کتاب فوق نوشته: تامس جانسون، و نامه از کتاب: گزینه سرودها و نامه ها، ویراسته: رابرت لینسکات؛ موضوع: شعر امریکایی سده 19 مخود را درون گلم نهان میکنم؛ تا آن را بر سینه ات زنی و مرا نیز بی اختیار در بر کشی؛ و دیگر هرچه پیش آید خوش است.
خود را درون گلم نهان میکنم؛ تا چون در گلدانت بپژمردم؛ تو بی اختیار هوای مرا کنی؛ انگار در نبودنم تنهایی.
Abstract and intellectual, Emily Dickinson's work echoes the concerns of seventeenth-century metaphysical poetry: her short poems address religion and morality, love and death, hope and despair, through inventive metaphors and perplexing paradoxes.
In contrast to her literary antecedents, though, Dickinson's language reads as a great deal more precise and less self-indulgent.
So, too, do her poems tend to resist visualization altogether, whereas the metaphysical poets' work simply features strange, quasi-mystical images.
Dickinson's brevity makes her work accessible even to readers who typically dislike poetry.
The major characteristics of the poems: •  Theme and Tone •  Form and Style •  Meter and Rhyme •  Punctuation and Syntax •  Diction It has literally taken days for me to go through deepening verses thoroughly to acquire the slightest portion of them straight to the heart. A moment of contact when the thriving elixir hits your system lofting you into an era where you are beyond the field of right or wrong, consciousness or sub-consciousness, light or shadow!You feel the phrases shaping somewhere
Emily’s poems are literally the soul food.
Few of verses are really absurd in a way that they linger in your mind on the loop.The editors (Emily's friends) have composed her poems into four categories:- Life- Love- Nature- Time and Eternity Her seasonal transition is totally phenomenal reminds me of:Bequest You left me, sweet, two legacies, — A legacy of love A Heavenly Father would content, Had He the offer of; You left me boundaries of pain Capacious as the sea, Between eternity and time, Your consciousness and me.
Love and pain bound together!
Emily Dickinson's poetry is as subtle and delicate as how she lived her life.
One thing which might have greatly influenced her writing and the themes found on her poetry is her ambiguous relationship with the editor of this current collection, TW Higginson, who must have served as her only contact within the literary world.I recommend reading the biography and beautiful poetry of Emily Dickinson, a maiden, dubbed as 'an eccentric recluse', who closed her life from the outside world.
Review I have not yet read one of the biographies of Emily Dickinson (1830-1886), but I know how, disappointed by a few interactions with publishers, she made no further attempts; how she wrote nearly two thousand poems, discovered upon her death; how she rarely left the family house after she returned from college and, not long thereafter, rarely left her room.
What agonies drew this poem out of Dickinson?I've had this book in my shelves for 17 years; I wish I had read it earlier.(*) So what of the 21st century Americans trying to resurrect 19th century American "right thinking"?
Emily Dickinson was a recluse, and described as “well-behaved,” so it isn’t surprising that she hides things, that we find unsaid paragraphs behind her dashes, philosophies beneath her capital letters.
Prior to reading this, the one I liked best was “Tell all the Truth but tell it slant--,” which I still love but it has moved down the list a bit now, after “I started Early—Took my Dog,” with its beautiful description of being enveloped by the surf.And in the fanciful “Make me a picture of the sun,” she evokes the power of make-believe and dreaming:Say if it’s really—warm at noon—Whether it’s Buttercups—that “skim”—Or Butterflies—that “bloom”?We can choose to see things differently if we wish.

خود را درون گلم نهان می کنمتا آن را بر سینه ات زنیو مرا نیز بی اختیار در بر کشی و دیگر هرچه پیش آید خوش است.خود را درون گلم نهان می کنم تا چون در گلدانت بپژمرم تو بی اختیار هوای مرا کنیانگار در نبودم تنهایی.
This collection was a great introduction to Emily Dickinson's poetry - but I think it was just that, an introduction. While there are certainly some gems within this edition, I found myself uninterested in her poems about nature, which take up a significant part of this book. In time, I could definitely be persuaded to buy a complete collection of Dickinson's poetry to indulge in on a warm spring day.
DO NOT read this version.
Don't insult me by being so helpful!I had originally typed up a bunch of quotations from poems I liked but GR ate it, so I will just say that I like Emily Dickinson, but mostly when she is talking nostalgically about books or love.
When you read a bunch in a row, the word immortality becomes less clever as a poem ending, and just becomes rather convenient instead.
All of her poems read as idealistic, but knowing her life, it isn't too surprising.
I am always surprised by how joyful they are, though.
There's nothing like Emily Dickinson for excellent, emotional, sometimes sarcastic, always entertaining, short poems.
❤❤❤❤❤My life closed twice before its close -It yet remains to seeIf Immortality unveilA third event to meSo huge, so hopeless to conceiveAs these that twice befell.Parting is all we know of heaven,And all we need of hell.-----------------------------A minha vida fechou-se duas vezes antes de se fechar –Mas fica por saberSe a imortalidade me revelaUm evento maiorTão largo, tão incrível de pensarComo estes que sobre ela duas vezes tombaram.Partir é tudo o que sabemos do céu,Tudo o que do inferno s
❤️❤️❤️❤️❤️My life closed twice before its close -It yet remains to seeIf Immortality unveilA third event to meSo huge, so hopeless to conceiveAs these that twice befell.Parting is all we know of heaven,And all we need of hell.-----------------------------A minha vida fechou-se duas vezes antes de se fechar –Mas fica por saberSe a imortalidade me revelaUm evento maiorTão largo, tão incrível de pensarComo estes que sobre ela duas vezes tombaram.Partir é tudo o que sabemos do céu,Tudo o que do inferno se pode precisar.
Healing..
I LOVE IT
My splendors are menagerie; But their competeless show Will entertain the centuries When I am, long ago, An island in dishonored grass, Whom none but daisies know.
I'm not a poetry buff - but I suppose if I were to start somewhere, starting with Emily would be an appropriate place.
It was easy to read through the collective works, and I'm itching to own a copy to mark and highlight and dog ear for my own pleasure.
It was hard not to do that on my loaned copy for sure.
I continually wanted to re-write some of my favorites and plaster them on the walls of my bedroom like an adolescent.
I always imagined Emily to be someone who was exhuberant in life, and was quite shocked to find that she was nearly a hermit.
I never thought I had the intellectual capabilities to be one of them - hence why it took me so long to actually pick up a poetry collection, which has to be one of my deepest regrets in life.
But what I don't regret (and who possibly could?) is choosing Emily Dickinson as my first ever dive into the world of poetry, and I knew that the instant I read the above poem.
Being a poetry novice, I do not know what else to say - except share another one of her poems that I truly loved; in hopes that you do too, and decide to pick up this work of art without a second thought.
But at the same time I realize that the combination between her fire from within and complete impersonality and public facelessness (“How dreary to be somebody!/ How public, like a frog …”) turns her in such a splendid case.What I have enjoyed -- the fact that she is such a direct (lyrical) philosopher.
She has wonderful poems about anxiety and despair and I am sure (and I am glad) she hasn't read Kierkegaard!
She has complete access to immediacy, to directness, to the (essence of the) Real that transgresses ordinary reality.
I felt lukewarm about Emily's poetry until the last section of this book in which her famous melancholy side was displayed, then I took quite a fancy to her poems.Death and Emily Dickinson go together like peanut butter and jelly. I've never known someone to make personal darkness and internal pain into something so beautiful. I especially like how her prose flows from my lips as if begging to be read aloud. Oh Emily, my favorite hermit. I am so endeared to you.
My eldest daughter is named Emily. Need I say more?
The Collected Poems of Emily Dickinson contains a sizeable sample of the total works of the reclusive poet, who only came to prominence after her death.
Containing 593 poems separated into five different themes, roughly a third of her overall productivity, this collection gives the reader a wonderful look into the talent of a woman who hid her art not only from the world but also her own family.
Although neither Wetzsteon’s introduction and analysis nor Dickinson’s work is wanting, the fact that this collection gives only a sample of the poet’s work is its main and only flaw.
This book contains every poem that Emily Dickinson ever wrote.
Over the time that I read it, it was actually stolen/mock-stolen and when I retrieved it the thief was pouring over a single poem, trying to reach the hidden meaning.
The actual poem was:The heart asks pleasure firstAnd then, excuse from pain.And then, those little anodynesthat deaden suffering.And then, if to sleepAnd then, if it should beThe will of the InquisitorThe Liberty to die.Since then I have wondered what it really meant.
Dickinson did not become famous until after her death, but those who discovered her showed the world a truly gifted artisan who contained the world in her writing.
I am marking this as finished but really I had to return it to the library before I was done. I read more than half and have read many of these poems before in other collections & anthologies so I feel comfortable with my rating.
I read a selected volume of Dickinson in American Literature II at Uni, so not very well informed about her, though I had enjoyed her poems about death (minus religion) best.
Still loved the Death poems best but by the end of the book I was growing weary of the amount of religious poetry in the volume.
Nevertheless I've come away having critically analysed each poem (lots are very short, so I am no great hero), written all over the book (it is only a paperback - I'm sorry but I do this with my poetry books)and feel a lot better informed about Emily D.
This collection organizes various poems from throughout Dickinson's life by five different themes: life, nature, love, time and eternity, and a miscellaneous section entitled "The Single Hound".This book does not include all of Dickinson's poems, and it does not preserve her trademark use of dashes.
As the poet herself writes "We should not mind so small a flower/Except it quiet bring/our little garden that we lost/back to the lawn again".As a reader, one must understand that Dickinson , although lauded as a genius in our time, was unrecognized in her day.
I don't think it's fair to criticize a poet if you haven't read a good deal of their work.
It is ever so clear that this woman died without ever knowing a man (sexually), or hardly ever set foot out of her house, for that matter.LIIIGod gave a loaf to every bird,But just a crumb to me;I dare not eat it, though I starve -My poignant luxury...????????????????And so Dickinson's work reflects the life of a person who would rather starve, and who was afraid to live.
Her writing states just how much she lived in her own head; how she longed for death.
I will be honest--I had never just loved Emily Dickinson before I read this volume.
I'd covered her in a quite a few classes I've taken, read all of the typical highlights, and I'd often found the rhyme and rhythms of her language repetitive and the images obvious and dull.I thought she deserved another chance, though, seeing as she's Emily Dickinson, and so I've been slowly reading my way through this volume of verse, taking my time and rereading if something struck me.
XCVIITO make a prairie it takes a clover and one bee,—	One clover, and a bee,	And revery.
“A precious mouldering pleasure 't isTo meet an antique book,In just the dress his century wore;A pr
I like Emily Dickinson but this edition is generally poor.
Barnes and Noble does some good things with their classics, but this is not it.Organized into loosely defined 'groups' such as life, love, &c, the editors used what is now considered obsolete punctuation--the replacement of her trademark dashes with commas and ordinary spaces.So, if looking for a good edition, seek elsewhere.
If looking for a puzzling and intelligent poet, stop here.(Edition rates >1 star.
Her poetry pulled it up, I'm not the biggest fan, but she is not an idiot.)Also, the cover photograph isn't even the original, it's a touched up version of her--and it makes her look like a clown.
