https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1537534.Unbelievable
Sigue en la línea de Shepard. Lo leí muy rápido.A ver si el siguiente mejora un poquito!
We know this because Shepard suddenly starts inserting jarring references to people suspecting her, although there is no particular reason to do so at this stage, or indeed at all.Meanwhile Hanna has some sort of near-death-experience vision thing that makes no sense and basically consists of the whole prologue written out again, presumably for padding.
Aria’s teacher-boyfriend loses his job due to his inappropriate sexual behaviour, but thanks to the typically lacklustre Rosewood Police Department there are no legal ramifications and he is free to continue to molest young girls as he wishes.
Pros:- writing is getting better- I liked some twists and turns a lot- plot is still very interestingCons: - the book felt way too long and drawn out- I feel like A reveal wasn't dramatic enough- It was kinda boring at times- Girls don't get enough page time together, they are always separate in almost all of the scenes.- Hanna is so annoying.My WEBSITEMy INSTAGRAMMy WORDPRESS BLOG
Unbelievable continued to follow Spencer, Aria, Hanna and Emily as A stalks and threatens them.However this one marked the end of the (what I call) "original four" books.
Aria is forced to move in with her father and Meredith, Emily is forced to move to Iowa and Spencer is forced to compete in the Golden Orchid competition.Melissa continually gives off vibes as though she is the killer, with periodic flashbacks to life with Ali still alive.
Aria and her Mom make up and Meredith gets knocked up.
Actual rating: 3.5/5 starsThis book was much better than the last two, it was thrilling, and kept me wondering what was going to happen next (even though I basically knew, because of the TV show) The plot that this particular instalment is entered around was one of my favourite episodes, so that was really enjoyable! I also feel like towards the end of this book, the characters started to become less annoying! Hallelujah, haha.Going to take a break from this series now, and start back up again later! :)
I have decided not to read anymore of these until the last one is published. I just want to know "who done it" without having to read all of the HS drama. I really liked this series at first, but once I got to the third book, all of the drama got old and started to annoy me. Of course, I am WAY past my teenage years; I'm sure that has something to do with it. ;)
Wow. I had a suspicion she might be lying about the notes, but never did I think she'd run Hanna over because she "knew too much".
I can't stand Hanna.
And Emily drives me nuts.
Meanwhile I really like Aria, even though she messes up occasionally, she's the most honest and creative girl in the group.
She doesn't want to hurt her family but she'll do anything to make them happy.
I like how she handles situations, she can tell someone off but also knows how to contain her rage.
Emily has seen her eyes and everyone has seen the ponytail.
(Hey, it's Monday morning, go easy on me)I added a lot of drama in my reactions while I was reading this, since I think these books bring out my inner queen.I'm very curious about what will happen next.
*grins*Silly little story I want to add: I was reading this on the train and some girl was trying to explain drugs to somebody else.
It was the funniest thing I've heard all year.
ETA: I reread my review and I realize this thing has nothing to do with the book.
Just when I think I've got it figured out, something else happens that completely mixes things up.
So instead of breaking down each and blathering on and on about them, I'll just bring out the highlights of the final book to the story arc.Each girl continues to be unique, to have her own problems, and come to her own (sometimes false) conclusions.
The little tendrils of friendship, from Aria in the waiting room of the hospital, worried for her friend, Hanna, to Spencer helping Mona plan Hanna's vigil, begin to show how these girls aren't so different, how they could really be friends again if they tried.
I think it's hard to rate individual books in a series, especially a long one like PLL, but I honestly believe that each book is great and the only one I'd say maybe wasn't a full 5 stars like I rated it, was probaby book 1, just cuz it was a little bit boring.
I think that each girl has her flaws of course, who doesn't?
But as of right now if I had to choose, I think throughout the whole series, I've been leaning towards Aria, especially her relationship with Ezra, I really really hope he comes back in this next book!
4.5 stars / 5 because i am a little disappointed of who "A." was. The good news is that is going to be a new "A" in town starting from volume 5.Besides that, it was amazing! At last, the 4 friends started working together and they made it! The atmosphere was intense, the secrets were incredible, and the ending left me wanting to find out more!I recommend this series.
But it's ok, because her family supports her eating disorder and bitchy attitude, so why would she change - even after getting hit by a car?And it's four books in and the girls still aren't really talking to each other or even close to being friends again.
So we just keep getting four completely different story lines that somehow all come together by the end of the book so we can have all of our Liars together at once.I really hope these get better because right now I'm just rooting for A to destroy them because they all deserve it for being horrible and childish human beings.
Her best friend ends up being someone bad and her mom tells her that she got a job in another sate and leaves Hanna the option to move with her, or move in with her dad and his fiance and her evil stepsister.Aria who is my favorite in the series is dumped by Sean when he finds out she was with her teacher, Ezra.
Aria and her mom were still not talking in the beginning of the book so Aria lives with her dad and his girlfriend.
She also finds out Alison had a thing with Ian which means Ian cheated on Spencer's sister.And Emily is sent to Iowa to live with her Aunt and Uncle but her cousins get her in trouble which gets Emily sent back home.
2.5 starsI wasn't a huge fan of this edition.
After the last addition to the series - Perfect - I thought the books were getting better but yeah, they're obviously not if this is an indication.
There wasn't anything definitively wrong with this but it was nothing special.
I also have to add that some of the MCs are really getting on my nerves.
I'm not a fan of Hanna, and Emily's constant mood swings and screaming - she screams and yelps a lot - pissed me off for the most part.
However, I love the mystery and drama of the series.
Rating: 4 Stars.Score SheetCover: 8/10Plot: 8/10Characters: 8/10World Building: 5/10Flow: 9/10Series Congruity: 10/10Total: 8/10In DepthBest Part: A is getting even more involved and shit is hitting the fan big time!Worst Part: (view spoiler)[Mona's death scene, i wish it was long and more detailed, it was maybe 2 paragraphs, not enough!
(hide spoiler)]Overall Feels Felt: oh snap!; i knew it!!; you all gonna get it now!ConclusionContinuing the Series: yes!Recommending: yes!Misc.: Triggers; eating disorders.
Short Review: This book seamlessly starts from where the last book left off.
I knew it was the certain person already from foreshadowing but it was nice how it played out.
i love it!Review In GIF Form["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>
For the amount of secrets revealed in this installment, it is easily the most boring of the series so far.
How is that possible?
I don't know.The entire book felt like one long rehash of what has already happened.
I know that's needed in series, most do it either within a few chapters or lightly sprinkled through out the whole book.
But this book...it was the entire thing.
Until the last 10 chapters or so, the whole thing was "Previously on Supernatural--" if you know what I mean.So. Meh.
Disappointed in this one but will continue on with the others anyway.
Who the heck is A? I really do enjoy this series, this book didn't seem to have as much going on in it as the first three, but I still really enjoyed it. I just don't think we know who A is, and we have no idea who the killer is. I think we are being misled! One thing I am very glad of is that Emily's parents seemed to finally accept her for who she is. Thank goodness finally a parent with a brain in the series!
Oh my gosh. I can't even believe it. Mona? And now there is a new A? Was she even A in the first place? Is Ian even guilty?Such a great mystery book. Maybe my favourite Pretty Little Liars books so far! -June 2015Re read: August 2017
Unbelievable (Pretty Little Liars #4), Sara Shepard
Loads of fun, but the long-anticipated conclusion didn't contain the mind-bending twist I was waiting for after so many little twists and red herrings and reveals in the long buildup.
ESTA SERIE ES LO MÁS!NECESITO SABER YA QUÉ PASA CON LUCAS Y CON A
Not sure how I feel about this.I knew there were about 5839502753940 books in this series left, but 
Já no final do 3º livro vimos que 'A' não está para brincadeiras quando atropela Hannah que fica em coma no hospital Emily vai viver para Iowa com os seus tios que são super conservadores.
Também tem de lidar com problemas amorosos, já que foi viver com os seus tios na esperança de poder curar-se da 'doença' de gostar de raparigas, tal não acontece, pelo contrário, conhece uma rapariga,Trista que irá trazer problemas ao relacionamento de Maya e EmilySpencer continua na sua mentira de ter escrito a redacção que está a concurso num prestigiado prémio.
Secrets will be revealed in the fourth novel (and final arc in the first quartet) of the Pretty Little Liars series.
My Review:The fourth book in Sara Shedpard's Pretty Little Liars gave a great ending to one of the many plot lines - who is the first A?
Each character has a different chapter and it rotates so the reader gets many points of views within this final novel within the first quartet in Pretty Little Liars.
For readers who are not as impressed with this series as I am - every quartet is a great place to stop if you don't want to leave things off on a bad ending.
This book literally had my heart pounding out of my chest so hard I considered putting it down...
I know I wasn't as wild about the third book, but this one was incredible.
I wish they'd put these out closer together so I wouldn't have to wait so long between installments -- but luckily for me, I already bought Wicked.
As it is, I'm not sure if I'm going to be able to wait more than a few days before cracking open the next one.
I know, I know, it's not especially feasible -- so let's just hope each new book continues to be worth the wait.
While each book so far has read like a chapter in the overall series, I keep finding myself satisfied at the end.
Don’t mistake me—I still want LOTS more, the who dunnit, the whys, and the hows… But I’ve read some series where their versions of cliffhangers are giving you half the story, no answers, and making you wait a year until the next book.
But I have to say, Sara Shepard does a fantastic job of making the unsatisfying seem satisfying.I’ve said before, I love mysteries, but I’m HORRIBLE at them.
And this is BY FAR one of the juiciest, most gossipy, delectable mysteries I’ve ever read.
If you thought you'd figured Perfect out with Spencer being Ali's killer, you're wrong.
After Perfect I knew the author was going to do a 180 with Spencer, somehow explaining away that she didn't really kill Ali. That's the thing about these books, Sara Shepard doesn't drop subtle hints.
She makes you believe with every fibre of your being that Spencer or Melissa is the killer, then in the next book she completely drops it and makes you feel silly for thinking you had it all worked out.
Unbelievable and Perfect completely shook up my suspicions and now I don't know what to think!
Hanna was in a coma but recovered with a lot of scars, after being hit by a car who is really A.The most shocking part is A, the one who has been sending the threatning text messages is MONA.
When Hanna awoke from the coma she couldnt remember what happened or who A was.Mona even tried to kill Spencer, when Hanna remembered who A was because Mona sent a "A" message through her own phone.
Mona threw a welcome back party for Hanna with Spencer and she pretended that she was getting "A" messages too.Aria told police officers about "A" and Mona knew.
While her friends and family pace the hospital's waiting room to learn Hanna's fate, "A" continues to threaten each girl.
Emily is sent to live with her cousins after her parents learn she kissed the new girl, Maya.
Little does Emily (or her parents) know that her cousins aren't so innocent and have issues of their own.
Hanna is in the hospital recovering from her accident.
She doesn't remember the events of that fateful evening, although pieces of memories flood her mind.Unbelievable finally reveals "A's" identity and the motive behind the threats and texts.
Just like in the book, everyone has trouble with things, but you just have to keep on going through with it and keep your head up during tough times.
In Unbelievable written by Sara Shepard, the four main characters, Spencer, Aria, Hanna, and Emily all face the same problems and are really struggling, just like what happens to people in real life.
The four main characters learn that there are some things that challenge you, but you have to stay strong, and deal with your problems.
Unbelievable, written my Sara Shepard, is a mysterious book and isn’t too long of a story.
