https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/138164.Selected_Poems
عين باردة تحدّق في الحياةوفي الموتوفارس يعبر بينهما ــــــــــ ذلك الفارس المغموس بكليته في بحور الشعر هو ويليام بتلر ييتسالشاعر الأيرلندي الممسوس بجنون من نوع خاصوالمشدود إلى عالم الغرائبيات الساحر بكل ما أوتي من عبقرية ومنطق يتخطى حدود البشرييتس صنع من الشعر جناحين عملاقينوطار بهما محلقاحاملا قراءة من كل العصور معهأنت تقرأ ييتسأنت لم تعد على الأرض[image error]-----------------------If you have revisited the town, thin Shade,Whether to look upon your monument(I wonder if the builder has been pa

When You Are OldWhen you are old and gray and full of sleep,And nodding by the fire, take down this book,And slowly read, and dream of the soft lookYour eyes had once, and of their shadows deep;How many loved your moments of glad grace,And loved your beauty with love false or true;But one man loved the pilgrim soul in you,And loved the sorrows of your changing face.And bending down beside the glowing barsMurmur, a little sadly, how love fledAnd paced upon the mountains overheadAnd hid his face amid a crowd of stars.

All the same, and this is why I say the poem is deceptively simple, to me the reading I’ve just given struggles with the advice she gives in both stanzas (take love easy as leaves and take life easy as grass) – but this is at least partly because I’m unsure how grass grows on weirs.
I also think I would have enjoyed the poems more with more knowledge of mythology as a lot of the poems do reference mythical characters, some that I've never heard of.Two of my favourite poems from this book: A Coat - W.B. YeatsI made my song a coatCovered with embroideriesOut of old mythologiesFrom heel to throat;But the fools caught it,Wore it in the world’s eyesAs though they’d wrought it,Song, let them take it,For there’s more enterpriseIn walking naked.He Wishes for the Cloths of Heaven - W.B. YeatsHad I the heavens’ embroidered cloths,Enwrought with golden and silver light,The blue and the dim and the dark clothsOf night and light and the half-light,I would spread the cloths under your feet:But I, being poor, have only my dreams;I have spread my dreams under your feet;Tread softly because you tread on my dreams.
Our long ships loose thought-woven sails and wait, For God has bid them share an equal fate; And when at last defeated in His wars, They have gone down under the same white stars, We shall no longer hear the little cry Of our sad hearts, that may not live nor die.I was struck yesterday, September 1, by the dates of Yeats' birth and death.
I refute you thusly!Technology continues apace whereas our elan vital becomes a function.An application.
Perhaps I lack the vitality to be crushed.
I lack the self-awareness for such.
Yeats worked for me.

I do not like all of his poems, but some of them I love and cherish with all of my heart.
And also, these poems are meant to be heard, and ideally to be read aloud in a soft Irish voice.
The poems are so lyrically and melodically composed they in some ways can resemble the traditional Irish folksongs.
I have settled upon a rating of 4 stars, as I do love Yeats and his fairytale-like poetry, which will draw you in and transport you to a long lost time of fairies, mermaids, unicorns and true magic.
Constant references to classical and Irish mythology ensure his poems are frequently rooted in the past, even when he is talking about current events.
There are other themes in his work like private and public intellectual life, Irish nationalism, and urbanization but these seem relatively minor to me.If I were to pick some favourite poems in this collection they would be The Lake Isle of Innisfree, Sailing to Byzantium, The Second Coming, The Cat and the Moon, and Under Ben Bulben.
One unfortunate omission is Brown Penny, which may very well be my favourite Yeats poem of all time.
Here are some samples from the book: The Lake Isle of InnisfreeBy William Butler YeatsI will arise and go now, and go to Innisfree,And a small cabin build there, of clay and wattles made;Nine bean-rows will I have there, a hive for the honey-bee,And live alone in the bee-loud glade.And I shall have some peace there, for peace comes dropping slow,Dropping from the veils of the morning to where the cricket sings;There midnight’s all a glimmer, and noon a purple glow,And evening full of the linnet’s wings.I will arise and go now, for always night and dayI hear lake water lapping with low sounds by the shore;While I stand on the roadway, or on the pavements grey,I hear it in the deep heart’s core.
Not much experience with poetry, so this was a bit of a tough read for me. Many poems in this collection tell me about the the process of aging, looking back, decay and thinking abouth the dreams and idleness of youth, where everything seemed possible.The concetration needed to fully grasp a poem proved an interesting excercise for me. I noticed that I sometimes read "lazy" and allow my thoughts to wander. It was a confronting experience.
My favorite one: An Irish Airman Foresees His Death:I know that I shall meet my fate Somewhere among the clouds above; Those that I fight I do not hate Those that I guard I do not love; My country is Kiltartan Cross,My countrymen Kiltartan’s poor, No likely end could bring them loss Or leave them happier than before. Nor law, nor duty bade me fight, Nor public man, nor cheering crowds,A lonely impulse of delight Drove to this tumult in the clouds; I balanced all, brought all to mind, The years t
Nor law, nor duty bade me fight,	 Nor public man, nor cheering crowds,A lonely impulse of delight	 Drove to this tumult in the clouds;	 I balanced all, brought all to mind,	 The years to come seemed waste of breath,	 A waste of breath the years behind	In balance with this life, this death.I encountered this some months ago and I was obsessed with Yeats and wanted to read more of his poems.
I really like his style, his way of thinking.
Some poems like The Tower were a bit long for me and I lost my concentration, however all in all I like this selection.
I feel so guilty because I want to like Yeats but while there are one or two amazing poems, like 'Leda and the Swan' and 'An Irish Airman Forsees His Death', or one or two that are very interesting and strikingly expressed, like 'The Second Coming' or 'The Circus Animal's Desertion', overall, I find Yeats boring a lot of the time and a bit repugnant for his conservative nature, such as his nationalism.
I found it hard to concentrate and understand a lot of his poems and I didn't really come away feeling like he'd deeply touched me and got to my heart (like Paul Verlaine) or said something amazing (like Baudelaire).
Well, I see it; I just don't feel or think it.
To be honest I thought I would enjoy the poetry of Yeats more. Before reading this selection I had only known his (most?) famous poem "The Stolen Child" which I love to bits. But everything else in the selection seems to me very pale in comparison. I could relate to maybe two or three other works but otherwise it all seemed pompous and full of esoteric references for the sake of sounding intellectual... Or maybe I'm just too stupid to appreciate it ;)
Beautiful poetry. The focus is largely on Irish history, but I think behind that is a genuine search for what is most important in life. Though I appreciated the beautiful language and what I thought the message was, I still felt like much of it went over my head.
This was a strange one for me...very on and off. Still undecided if I would call myself a 'fan' of his work. Some of his poetry delights me, the rest I would have happily skimmed through. I didn't skim however, just wanted him to redeem himself...but he failed.
Contains one of my all time favourite poem: An Irish Airman Foresees His Death.Those that I fight, I do not hateThose that I guard, I do not love-W.B. Yeats
Along with TS Elliot and WH Auden, I had been taught that Yeats is one of the classic 3 modern "English" poets of the early 20th century.
Like TS Elliot (who is from St. Louis), it turns out that Yeats is not actually English (he is Irish).
Having read both TS Elliot and Auden, I thought it was time to sample Yeats.
After reading this collection, Yeats clearly falls at the bottom of the 3 for me.What I Liked: 1.
3. His manner of having long poetry titles, eg.
We sat grown quiet at the name of love;We saw the last embers of daylight die,And in the trembling blue-green of the skyA moon, worn as if it had been a shellWashed by time’s waters as they rose and fellAbout the starts and broke in days and years.(from Adam's Curse)First, a word on Modern Classics edition: it contains not only a selection of Yeats's work, but also an introduction with contextual background (at the front) and detailed notes about the various references contained in the poems (at the back).

A volume of selected poems is a strange beast to read and then to consider afterwards.
Mostly there is an awe at what a strange and rich collection of poetry this book has in it.
There is his obsession with Maud Gonne - which even setting aside a certain tradition of stalkerish love poetry will be interesting to read about further.
But above all there are the ringing words of beauty of his language.'The Second Coming'.
There has been fine poetry, moving poetry, beautiful language and images so far, but it is surprising how this just explodes off the page.
But I think as I continued through the book, I found it harder to understand a lot of his poems.
It made reading the poetry more like a chore.
The poems I didn't so much care for were more because I failed to understand them, and I never like putting a whole lot of effort into understanding poetry.-Favourite Poems-"The Cloak, The Boat, and The Shoes""The Indian Upon God""Ephemera""The Rose of Peace""The Host of the Air""The Song of Wandering Aengus""To a Poet, Who Would Have Me Praise Certain Bad Poets, Imitators of His and Mine""A Lyric from An Unpublished Play""To a Child Dancing in the Wind""Fallen Majesty"
Yeats can be irritating sometimes: snobbish, attitudinizing...His symbolism can be off-putting, and so can his name-dropping.But anyone who can write about a savage god in one poem: We, who still labour by the cromlech on the shore, The grey cairn on the hill, when day sinks drowned in dew, Being weary of the world's empires, bow down to you, Master of the still stars and of the flaming door;and utter this gentle plea to his love in another: But I, being poor, have only my dreams.
I have spread my dreams under your feet.
However, the further I got through the book, the more the poems seemed to become ambiguous and obscure, and although this was a crucial development in to Modernism and into what Yeats idealized in terms of his poetry, sadly I felt like the lack of the Romantic, elegant language made his later poems seem sparse and almost boring.
Despite this, I'm still fascinated by Yeats's earlier poetry and I will most definitely be going back to re-visit it, and would love to delve further into his work at some point.
William Butler Yeats, the first Irishman to win the Nobel Prize for Literature, is not only one of the greatest poets of the 20th century but one of the most widely read.
The landscape, myths, legends, and folklore of his homeland lie at the heart of his poetic imagination, and the unique musicality of Ireland adds to the richness of his verse.
But the themes of his poetry are universal and timeless: the conflict between life and death, love and hate, and the meaning of man’s existence in an imperfect world.This collection includes such favorites as “The Lake Isle of Innisfree” and “When You Are Old”, as well as two of his longer narrative works, “The Old Age of Queen Maeve” and “Baile and Aillinn”.
I read many of the poems years ago -- grad school, what else?
I needed one of his early, embarassing poems that is mentioned in a book I was teaching.
The poem I needed was one of his that inspired the Wikipedia entry that says his poetry became better as he aged, unlike many poets.That much is certain.I do drag this book out from time to time.
Not that long ago, we read poems of his outloud during a dinner party.
Oh the poem and book?
My favorite:An AppointmentBy. W.B. YeatsBeing out of heart with governmentI took a broken root to flingWhere the proud, wayward squirrel went,Taking delight that he could spring;And he, with that low whinnying soundThat is like laughter, sprang againAnd so to the other tree at a boundNor the tame will, nor timid brain,Nor heavy knitting of the browBred that fierce tooth and cleanly limbAnd threw him up to laugh on the bough;No government appointed him.What more can I say? The poem speaks for itself of that longing for freedom from government.
Overall, I would say that the poems Seamus Heaney chose to represent his tower-dwelling predecessor William Butler Yeats were very well chosen, though I don't know enough about Yeats' other poems to make a more sound judgment. Suffice to say that what was here was beautiful, including the Fiddler of Dooney, now one of my favourite poems of the sort Yeats wrote. Certainly an interesting way to introduce oneself to the world of Yeats, and well formatted as well as they are not typed in that scrunched typing style "classic" poetry often finds itself.
It's the first time I have really looked at Yeats's poetry. Perhaps not surprisingly, I found the famous ones the most enjoyable. Some, of the other I found remarkably clumsy and poorly expressed. Perhaps this is why they didn't become famous. He sometimes takes to mentioning or even listing people's names and place names as though this were evocative or impressive. Part of my problem is that I am rather out of sympathy with the man and his period. An interesting exercise nevertheless. I liked Jeffares' introduction, which was clear and intelligent.
I've been reading Yeats since college, which is over forty years now. I have returned to the poems many times and my wife and I visited Ireland and went to some of the places mentioned in his poems. I loved Yeats when I first read and studied him and my feelings have only increased over the years as I have revisited poems. Lately, I have memorized a pair of them. I prefer to stick to the poems and not inquire too much about a person's political leanings, but I can understand why others may think differently on that subject.
