https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/97078.Atheism
Every rational person should read this book. It comes close to being the second book after the bible to justify atheism
I though it would be this entertaining little book debunking the Bible and Christianity, concentrating on the flawed facts or lack thereof in "The Book".
The literal content of the Bible was hardly even touched on in this book - instead, it dug into the roots of Christianity.
On several occasions, I had to stop reading altogether for a minute or two, to give my Pentium III of a head time to process the information I was ambushed with.Several years down the road, when I am no longer a manchild, I will be sure to take another shot a this book, because after reading it this first time I feel like I took away only a fraction of it's content.
Don't let this fool you, because Smith is a skilled logician and an effective writer who presents a razor sharp and pragmatist worldview where the idea of god is useless and contradictory, serving no purpose for anyone who cares about logic and reason.
Smith is so precise and careful in his arguments that he properly defines and distinguishes his references to God by establishing rules for capitalization (which he uses throughout the book, without fail) in the first chapter: the lowercase god is the deistic, pantheist god, while the uppercase God is the monotheistic God of Christianity and Islam.
That way, you always know which god he is referring to during each argument he presents.
Smith boldly states his aim early on: "It is not my purpose to convert people to atheism...but to demonstrate that the belief in God is irrational to the point of absurdity.
If a person wishes to continue believing in a god, that is his prerogative, but he can no longer excuse his belief in the name of reason and moral necessity." Using amazingly clear logic, and a breadth of scientific knowledge, I'd say Smith accomplishes his goal.Many mystics will reply "so what?
Since Smith wrote this, many others have elaborated on Smith's lines of reasoning, and some of them have come up with better refutations for the belief in gods.
This is a profitable book for a Christian to read, as it presents an intelligent critique of theism.
I wouls have liked him to have approached head on the concept that the Bible is God's self-revelation, and to have used how the Bible defines God, rather that name a number of characteristics that Christians use, define them himself and debunk those.
However, this is a challenge to Christians to ensure that they don't fall into the same trap - we must make sure that we listen to God's description of himself carefully, rather than half-listen then fill in what we half-heard with our own fancy.
More than 30 years before Dawkins penned his own bestseller, Atheism: The Case Against God was first published and went on to become one of the biggest selling atheist books of the twentieth century.
Concentrating on the philosophical arguments against God's existence, the deep intellectual passion on display here is wonderful.
Meticulously cutting through all the theological double-talk with his fine scalpel of a mind, Smith exposes the glaring contradictions and absurdities of theism, and in so doing, makes the single most convincing case for atheism I've yet read.
I guess the reason I rate this book so highly is because it's a philosophical approach dealing with the various arguments for a God. Too often what I've seen dubbed "The New Atheism" comes across as hectoring, shrill, even, dare I say, evangelical, with all the sophistication of a three-year-old stamping their feet and screaming "Religion sucks." There are a couple of chapters on the consequences and "sins" of religion, yes, but at the very end--it's not where the emphasis of the book lies.
Part One, "Atheism and God" defines atheism and treats the whole concept of "God." Part Two, "Reason, Faith, and Revelation" deals with why reason and faith are opposed.
Smith's Atheism: The Case Against God purports to be a book showing the irrationality of Theism.
Smith claims that "Atheism is not the absence of belief in God plus certain positive beliefs: atheism is the absence of belief in God. If we can show theism to be unsupported, false or nonsensical, then we have simultaneously established the validity of atheism" [pg.
He also claims that the most prominent form of atheism (Critical Atheism) "contends that the belief in god is irrational and should therefore be rejected" [pg.
So, in order for Smith to even make the claim that "Atheism has no positive beliefs" or that "theism is irrational", he has to admit that these are truth claims (positive beliefs).
Five stars because it's probably the best book presenting a rational case against God I've read. (I'm a theist btw [and just for clarity, that space is supposed to be there]) It's still relevant even though it was written in the '70s. (I think it was published in 1979)It's serious and philosophically tight, not the militant, philosophically ignorant silliness being published by Dawkins, Harris, et al.
This book will take some time to read so be prepared: it's a dense, but interesting defense of atheism.
I read this book years ago and looked at it again recently because of my old Army buddy who is attending Biola was interested in atheism.
Smith's book will get you thinking.
I do give Smith tremendous credit for telling the reader who wishes to delve further into Thomistic metaphysics to look for other sources.
Smith does a decent job and includes the biggest limitation of Aquinas' proofs that I have also thought: you get the god of philosophy, but not the god of religion.
In order to fully understand what Aquinas said you have to look at his other works (and yes, those are sitting on my shelf).
There are basically two ways in which one can argue against god and religion: either they are false or harmful.
This book concerns itself with the former and in that capacity it is probably the best book ever written.
It is unquestionably the best book I have ever read which takes the god-is-false approach to argue against god.
It is difficult to conceive how anybody could be a theist after reading this book.The book's one drawback is a chapter at the end of the book which argues for an Objectivist ethics (yuck!).
I've read Dawkins, Hitchens, and Harris, and now I just wish I started with this one.This is hands down the most important, complete, and succinct book on the fradulence of theism ever written.It is generally written in laymen's language, impeccably written, and beautifully organized. The only drawback is that it doesn't comment on Islam or Judaism, but considering when and where the book was written, that's forgivable.Read this book FIRST. I wish I had.
It would take very few examples of mountain moving to convert the atheists of the world, but the modern Christian is reluctant to defend these grandiose claims of faith, much less attempt an actual demonstration.A particular pleasure was Smith's brisk and effortless demolition of the Argument from Design and the Argument from Life - in each case not even mentioning evolution!The book does get a little boggy towards the end, when he outlines a meta-ethics based on Ayn Rand's work.
Those theists who (spuriously) dismiss the likes of Dawkins as insufficiently versed in theology might find Smith's book an uncomfortable riposte.
While the book is good overview of basic objections that atheists raise, George Smith does not portray the arguments he is responding to accurately.
The actual argument is "everything that BEGINS to exist has a cause." So in as much as most Atheists miss this detail, this book is accurately portraying the way in which the atheist tends to argue.
As a theist I found the beginning of the book to be thought provoking, especially his discussions of Thomistic doctrines of analogy and the objections he raises on natural law.
This is a demanding book, as it addresses the case of (a)theism from a philosophical perspective.
It is very interesting, and I learned a lot from reading it.
The author presents his pragmatic view of the world, and I am sure he has managed to awaken a spark of doubt in many theists, at least in those that are intelectually honest.A recommended read for all those rational people out there, and even for faithful people who want to have an informed debate and that want to overcome the laziness of using the same old arguments against reason.
It was this book, read when I was 19, that put a name to what I'd been feeling for two years.
Smith labeled my beliefs that I had only until that point thought were "lacks" of beliefs, intangible and unknowable.
This book did nothing to "sway" or "lure" me; I knew what I was feeling long before this.
I just didn't have a definitive name for it.
I exhaled deeply when I read that others felt the same way, even though I didn't "come out" until thirteen years later.
This little book will always have a warm and cozy, nostalgic place in my heart.
This book (which i read too far back to really know when I read it) is the classic in making the case that atheism is wiser than agnosticism (though not incompatible with it) and logically superior to theism. The book starts off a bit slowly/ponderously, but it builds to its conclusion quite effectively. Ultimately a good read for anyone who wants to understand atheism and its logical basis.
Atheism: The Case Against God by George H.
Smith "Atheism: The Case Against God" is an accessible, scholarly philosophical book that makes compelling arguments against the concept of a supreme being.
It's a book that offers cogent arguments to the question of god() in a logical manner.
The Arguments for God, and 4.
A thorough, well-written book that dissects the most common arguments for god().
Arguments for god() logically dissected.
In spite of Mr. Smith's excellent approach, philosophy can be difficult to follow at times.
3. Since the book was written some time ago, some ideas have evolved.
An acknowledgement of Christianity's contributions to civilization, particularly individualism, would have strengthened the book and made it harder for critics to dismiss (particularly because Smith comes from the individualist tradition).
Some of the more complicated and plausible philosophical arguments (usually Thomist) he criticizes are given short shrift and/or difficult to understand as he recounts them.
In a fascinating new afterword to this edition, Smith recounts his own intellectual development and the book's writing and publication history, explaining why he chose not to revise his youthful polemic.
(The edition has a footling but curious recurring typographical error: "modern" is frequently typeset as "modem".)
George Smith finally points out what theism, atheism and agnosticism are, the true definition and not the socially spread ones. I barely began this book, but i already f**king love it. It is the best book I read on religion so far. Gaorge Smith destroys the concept of God with no facts or Bible quotations, he just attacks the concepts we have developped on this matter and points out the contradictions, simple, blunt words. It looks so simple that you tell yourself "why didn't I see that? It's right under my nose!".
Something of a libertarian's atheism, rather than a marxist/materialist's atheism. Thoughtful, as far as it goes, but lacking in rigor or perspective at times. The defects are mostly on the margin, such as when objectivist author snipes gratuitously at leftwing politics: biblical injunction, e.g., that those who do not work shall not eat is criticized specifically because it is later a Leninist position.
If you still believe in an anthropomorphic God without question after reading this book you've got more faith than I can fathom. This is most detailed take-down of every argument for the Western Theism that I've read, besides the much dryer writing of Michael Martin.
No God is fine with me, and this work makes a clear case for that. However, I don't need Randianism as a substitute!
Atheism, indeed, does provide a basic `worldview', at least in a negative sense (I don't even have to limit it to a negative sense - part of the atheist worldview is that nothing can be attributed to miracles, which itself is a positive conviction - anyway, this is just false too, but his broader point that there are varieties of atheism is true).Smith's basic contention throughout the whole book is that the concept of God is contradictory - even logically contradictory in some ways and therefore, must be false.
But in the past several decades in the philosophy literature there has been much more detailed discussion of what these words mean, and Smith's treatment of them is a bit superficial given the much more sophisticated treatments out there.So far, I think that this is a very good book to read in order to get clear on how the discussion is supposed to be structured, but some of the material should be taken with a grain of salt--as should all introductory material to a topic.Part Two of the book is somewhat lengthy, consisting of four chapters on the topic of "Reason, Faith, and Revelation." For the most part, this section is not necessary reading (though the discussion may be presupposed by the remainder of the book).
When compared to the arguments against theism presented by the New Atheists (Dawkins, Harris, Hitchens, etc.), I would say that this book is actually, despite being written for the layperson, more philosophically rigorous.The author does a very good job arguing that the concept of God is, ultimately, incoherent: the definition of God (as given by theists) either is self-contradictory in various ways or makes appeals to the unknown that render the definition meaningless.
For example, he basically dismisses Tillich and other Christian pantheists as atheists in all but name, which is not fair to their positions.Overall, this is a good read that would be especially valuable to someone unfamiliar with the basic arguments for atheism and against God.

Detailed and thorough but obviously not written by someone who understands the religious mind...
I was a theist when I began this book, but not when I ended it.
