https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/18753.The_World_s_Last_Night
I must admit that reading this was a bit like my experience reading Kierkegaard in the past: I started off thinking ‘this won’t relate to me,’ but as I got deeper into it, could only think ‘my God, I’m terribly guilty of this.’ I freely admit that I take an absurd pride in being ‘cultured,’ and that my ego is certainly a contributing factor to my reading the books for ‘The Great Conversation.’ But I was encouraged to also connect with Lewis on his points of taking delight in art and literature, purely because of their inherent greatness.
One of his most poignant sections goes as follows:"But we think thus because we keep on assuming that we know the play.
We do not know the play.
The Author knows.
But we, never seeing the play from the outside, never meeting any characters except the tiny minority who are ‘on’ in the same scenes as ourselves, wholly ignorant of the future and very imperfectly informed about the past, cannot tell at what moment the end ought to come.
That it will come when it ought, we may be sure; but we waste our time in guessing when that will be.
Another great collection of essays. I especially liked his thoughts on prayer, sin, and work. Lewis is always insightful and earnest. I love starting my mornings and closing out my evenings with his musings.
One of many posthumous collections of Lewis writings, and part of Lewis’ large body of work as an essayist and thinker [1], this book offers seven essays that fit within the general confines of Lewis’ thinking as a Christian apologist with an interest in the relationship of Christianity to the larger culture.
The collection is sufficiently obscure that few people who are not familiar with Lewis’ larger body of work would likely read this book, which is composed of essays written during the latter part of the author’s life.
Prayer is a request that may or may not be granted.
What is the purpose of prayer?
God does not change His overarching plan, but His purpose will be accomplished in different ways based on the actions "including the prayers, of His creatures." Secondly, "On Obstinacy in Belief" Lewis explores the idea while people stick with a specific view.
Fifth, "Good work and good works" difference between Workmanship and charity.
Sixth, "Religion and Rocketry" Biblical truth in an advancing technological world.
Seventh, "The Worlds Last Night" Discusses the second coming of Christ.
Great series of essays and assorted bric-a-brac from Jack:Efficacy of prayer is not about getting wh
And in each one, Lewis makes some points I hadn’t thought of before.My favorite essay in the group was definitely “The World’s Last Night”.
It is a brilliant meditation.I also thoroughly enjoyed “The Efficacy of Prayer”, “Lilies that Fester”, and “Religion and Rocketry” (in which he discusses the possibility of one day coming in contact with aliens; very interesting).My least favorite essay was “On Obstinacy in Belief”—just not my cup of tea.
He wrote this essay years after The Screwtape Letters, and you can tell he just wasn’t as much in the clever mindset as he was years before.As always, full of insight and new thoughts.
Would definitely recommend, although the essays in The Weight of Glory collection are overall better.
"Truly I say to you, There are some standing here, which shall not taste of death, till they see the Son of man coming in his kingdom." (Matthew 16:28)C.S. Lewis writes....“The apocalyptic beliefs of the first Christians have been proved to be false.
He said in so many words, ‘this generation shall not pass till all these things be done.’ And he was wrong.
He clearly knew no more about the end of the world than anyone else.”“It is certainly the most embarrassing verse in the Bible.”That prophecy did not come true in the time of the Apostles and will not come true in any apocalyptic sense.
I have an uneasy relationship with C.S. Lewis' writing - particularly the nonfiction and essays.
I think it stems from the fact that protestants (always critical of the Catholic's idea of a Pope) have raised him up to a Pope like level within our own denomination.
Thus, books like "Mere Christianity" and "The Screwtape Letters" became books we ought to read to better our faith.
Especially since in this collection he discusses the difference between those enjoying and those enduring because they believe they ought to enjoy.
Using the list within the cover and my own recollections have plans to continue exploring the less hyped corners of Lewis writing.
Great read for those who are fans of Lewis beyond NarniaSix essays by Lewis that range in topics from an additional piece featuring Screwtape to how the Christian should correctly consider end times. Not a lot that threads these together except Lewis’ incredible mind and his astute observations of culture, particularly as it relates to Christians.
3.5! Each essay is great in its own way; completely consistent in thought. It left me a little empty, but still very enjoyable.
Certainly in his field (literature), he is a great scholar, but when Lewis dabbles in theology, philosophy, and social criticism, he shows himself to be a dilettante and extraordinarily intellectually uncharitable to those whose ideas and positions he attacks.It's been sometime since I read any of Lewis's other works, but it seems to me The World's Last Night: And Other Essays is as poorly argued and researched as the equally awful Mere Christianity.
The Great Divorce is a much better argued, more nuanced, and more open-minded work, but overall, I would have to say that I much prefer the Narnia fiction to any of Lewis's non-fiction (aside from his literary criticism, which is actually quite good).
This is a fantastic compilation of several theological essays by CS Lewis.
The essay on the efficacy of prayer was quite good.
And, while I hesitate to use the word "prophetic", there were hints of that in the essay "Screwtape Proposes a Toast" dealing with democracy.
I also appreciated his thoughts in "Religion & Rocketry" and how the Christian should think about the possibility of advanced life in space.
Some of these were thoughts that he also expressed more briefly in sections of his Space Trilogy.
I would say that if you can, please get a copy of this short book.
But I've already loaned out my copy.
C.S. Lewis was at the top of his game here. Every essay is a thought provoking one, and most* are prevelent still to this day, even though he wrote them almost forty years ago.*With the exception of Religion and Rocketry. When he wrote it everyone thought Martians were going to invade the next day, so the essay adresses how Christian should respond to a close encounter with a third kind (even possibly a fourth). So while it is still a fascinating read, it is (for the most part) academic by today's standards.
Typical Lewis, great essays, including on good work/s, what it means for Christianity if extraterrestrials (if Hnau!) exist and on the Second Coming.
It's miraculous."Question 1 Lewis sets out to answer: "Does prayer work?" 2.
Lewis laments the declining quality of work that most people produced in his day.A. Good work has not wholly vanished, but unfortunately does not characterize or distinguish Christians from others.B. The reasoning behind some who craft shoddy work: "Unless an article is so made that it will go to pieces in a year or two and thus have to be replaced, you will not get a sufficient turnover."C.
Which just showed (equally well) the absurdity of Christianity with its parochial idea that Man could be important to God." The attack is on the incarnation of Jesus: Why uniquely for us, and not for others?
The seven essays are: "The Efficacy of Prayer," "On Obstinacy in Belief," "Lilies that Fester," "Screwtape Proposes a Toast," "Good Work and Good Works," "Religion and Rocketry," and "The World's Last Night." These essays were originally published separately in a variety of publications between 1952 and 1959.
He laments the day that men would quit thinking for themselves, one where only popular opinion will be regarded as "good thought." Listen as he describes what this would look like, "Every boy or girl that is born is presented with the choice: 'Read the poets, whom we, the cultured, approve, and say the sort of things we say about them, or be a prole'" (46).
Of one sort, a man can truly say, 'I am doing work which is worth doing.
But as I have no private means, and need to be fed and housed and clothed, I must be paid while I do it.' The other kind of job is that in which people do work whose sole purpose is the earning of money; work which need not be, ought not to be, or would not be, done by anyone in the whole world unless it were paid." - from "Good Works and Good Works" in C.S.L.'s collection of essays, The World's Last NightI'm happy to open nearly anything that C.S.L. has written.
It has been several years since I have read much Lewis, and this short volume of essays reminded me how much I missed him.
His ability to calmly sweep aside the cobwebs that so often surround an idea is true genius, and his insights and conclusions are rational, clear, and thoughtful.For instance, in discussing whether prayer "works," he points out that the question itself will lead you down the wrong oath, because it ignores the Person involved in hearing the prayer.
Lastly, Lewis' ability to clearly draw a line between the disciplines of science and theology is healthy, helpful, and clarifying.
Read this if you are remotely curious about C.S. Lewis, prayer, basic theology, or space.
Another collection of assorted Lewis essays, this time touching more on topics I'm familiar with Lewis' other work on.
Perhaps because I was already familiar with Lewis' views on a number of these topics, I found this collection more engaging than "Christian Reflections," the last of his works I read.
I particularly engaged the forays into Lewis' religious views on the efficacy of prayer and apocalyptic theology, his speculation on the religious impacts of alien life, and his return to the world of Screwtape (I read "The Screwtape Letters" in high school and reading this essay makes me want to read it again).
These are various essays of Lewis's that work really well as essays and, often but not always, as theology. My favorite essays, of the seven included, are "On Obstinacy in Belief" and "Screwtape Proposes a Toast." The latter is a continuation of the main character from Lewis's epistolary fiction "Screwtape Letters." "Lilies that Fester" starts in a very good direction but gets distracted and "Good Work and Good Works" nails its critique of the faith only (and no works, works being seen among Protestants as unnecessary) we;; enough. The other three essays are negligible but enjoyable. Happy reading!
The essay “Good Works vs.
Good Work” is worth the price of the book.
Unpacks some cultural observations I have been stewing over for a long time.
The whole thing is just essential for a critique of vocation in western modernity.But almost every one here is just as good.
“Religion and Rocketry” and the titular essay “The World’s Last Night” are both superb also.
And of course “Screwtape Proposes a Toast” which I think is included in my copy of Screwtape Letters.If there’s a drawback to this collection it’s that it’s not long enough.
The World's Last Night is a collection of C.S. Lewis essays. It contains ruminations on the efficacy of prayer; a debunking of "blind faith"; a repudiation of "religion" and "culture" (reminiscent of The Abolition of Man); Screwtape returning to toast democracy; and discussions on consumer society, the theological implications of life on other worlds, and the practical implications of the Second Coming. With his usual insightfulness and rhetorical command, this collection belongs with the rest on any Lewis fan's shelf.
Yet another fantastic series of essays by my favorite author. "The Efficacy of Prayer," "The Obstinacy of Belief," "Lilies that Fester," and "The World's Last Night" are all new favorites of mine from him. I certainly didn't agree with Lewis on everything he argues for (e.g. the hypothetical necessity of Christ's atonement and his interpretation of one of Jesus's most famous predictions), but nothing kept me from immensely enjoying the essays as a whole.
This is somewhat of a mixed bag of essays. "The Efficacy of Prayer" is alright, as well as "On Obstinancy in Belief." "Lilies That Fester" deviated from what I think to be Lewis' trademark cleverness. The last three articles, "Good Work and Good Works," "Religion and Rocketry," and "The World's Last Night" are more like what I expect from my favorite Anglican. "Screwtape Proposes a Toast," however, blows all the rest of them away. Those twenty-one pages are worth the price of the entire book!
This book of seven essays is probably my least favorite of Lewis's work. But he did make some important comments. " Obedience is the key of Life." "Perfect love, we know, casteth out fear. But so does several other things--ignorance, alcohol, passion, presumption, and stupidity." "A n empire or civilization is also transitory." When doing the review I have decided that I like this book much better.
I enjoyed this one, but then, I've enjoyed every bit of Lewis's essays & apologia that I've read. Among other things, this collection considers the question of whether there might be alien life forms who are saved by grace through Jesus (or whether there might be other ones that have never fallen), and turns a searching eye on the question of the efficacy of prayer. As a bonus, there's a Screwtape piece that I'd never known existed.
What I could understand of Lewis was terrific! He is so very cerebral and much of his logic and argument went over my head. However, I gleaned enough to appreciate how he gets to the pith of religion and cuts away all the clouds of misapprehension that we labor under in this world. 'I shall certainly visit him again!
Out of 5 stars, I would normally give this a 3. But I can't honestly say I liked many of these essays, so I'm saying "It was ok" instead with 2 stars. I think it is objectively a good and interesting book, but some of the essays went over my head, and I didn't like the Screwtape chapter. The Screwtape Letters seemed better, at least when I read them when I was ten; haven't read that book since.
“Screwtape Proposes a Toast” and “Good Work and Good Works” are definitely the highlights. The eponymous essay is actually a non-theological treatise on the reasons behind our belief in the Second Coming. A welcome addition for CSL fans, but skippable for others. Unless you just read those two aforementioned essays.
