https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/30118.A_Light_in_the_Attic
Children need to experience this kind of creepy / weird / funny / sad stuff, not just for their own sake, but for the sake of having a conduit through which they can make sense of most of the rest of the world.
We, as humans, need to come to terms with inexplicable and unfathomable in the world, and it wasn't until Shel that we began to realize that the only way to gently help our children do just that, is to let a perverted old weirdo with a large stack of Playboys in his basement lead the way.
2016 Genre Challenge: Poetry
“Do a loony-goony dance 'Cross the kitchen floor, Put something silly in the world That ain't been there before.”
The feelings I have about Shel Silverstein's A Light in the Attic and Where The Sidewalk Ends contrast so sharply with the books themselves.
I loved these funny, whimsical and sometimes downright sadistic poems with all of my young heart.
Even now, I feel like I'm getting away with something when I think of Clarence Lee from Tennesee who loved the commercials he saw on TV.
In Shel Silverstein's books I found all of my childish wishes drawn out to their natural, absurd conclusions.
Which is not the point of these poems at all.
“A Light in the Attic” is one of Shel Silverstein’s best yet most controversial books of poems ever written.
“A Light in the Attic” may be too suggestive and morbid for smaller children, but older children will easily delight themselves with the silly shenanigans of the characters.
Parents should know that there are some suggestive and morbid content in this book that young children might not understand.
“A Light in the Attic” is an excellent book about silly poems about silly people who do crazy stunts and it will surely be an instant for many children young and old.
One word of caution for parents reading to younger kids: some of the poems do deal (albeit in a silly way) with issues such as drowning (in your own tears), getting kidnapped (by a Wild Barbazzoop), and Ticklish Tom (who unfortunately giggles his way onto a railroad track).
I read a little bit from this book everyday to my younger brother this past week. I can't remember if I finished this myself in my own childhood, but it felt like I read it for the first time, so I'll put this in the list of books I read this year. This is a book full of poems about jokes or about little lessons presented in comical ways. It gets little kids thinking and gets them interested about deeper thinking. Definitely a must-read for children!
Why I love it: Really? This is a banned book? Somewhere, Mr. Silverstein is shaking his head sadly. It’s a hilarious book of illustrations and poems. Silly poems. Its message is clear: use your imagination, laugh often and your life will be good. It promotes kindness, goodness and understanding. There’s nothing wrong with that.My Rating: 5 stars
I really liked A Light in the Attic, and its oddly-optimistic style and cheerful little illustrations. A few of the poems were a little vulgar, which I didn't enjoy, but otherwise this is a great book that both adults and kids can have fun reading.
Need to feel like a kid again? Cozy up with this humorous and whimsical book of poetry. Kids of all ages are sure to enjoy Shel Silverstein's fanciful word play in this amusing collection.Besides reading this book myself, I also purchased a copy of this book for my children and grandchildren. It is a good book to get your children into reading. I HIGHLY RECOMMEND this book! Excerpt:"Somebody Has ToSomebody has to go polish the stars,They’re looking a little bit dull.Somebody has to go polish the
Need to feel like a kid again?
Cozy up with this humorous and whimsical book of poetry.
Kids of all ages are sure to enjoy Shel Silverstein's fanciful word play in this amusing collection.Besides reading this book myself, I also purchased a copy of this book for my children and grandchildren.
It is a good book to get your children into reading.
I HIGHLY RECOMMEND this book!
Excerpt:"Somebody Has ToSomebody has to go polish the stars,They’re looking a little bit dull.Somebody has to go polish the stars,For the eagles and starlings and gullsHave all been complaining they’re tarnished and worn,They say they want new ones we cannot afford.So please get your ragsAnd your polishing jars,Somebody has to go polish the stars."
4.0 to 4.5 stars. One of those books that can be enjoyed by children and adults depending on how deeply you dive into the meaning of the stories. Incredibly imaginative and very well done.
A Light in the Attic, Shel Silversteinعنوان: نوری در اتاق زیر شیروانی؛ نویسنده: شل سیلورستاین؛ مترجم
"The saddest thing I ever did seeWas a woodpecker peckin' at a plastic tree. He looks at me, and "Friend," says he,' "Things ain't as sweet as they used to be."While reading I noticed that I've had read it long ago.. But I just couldn't stop! I just love Shel!
Awwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwww!!!! When I saw my Goodreads friend 'post' she read this book, I smiled BIG time!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
Oh my! I remember how much I loved to read these poems back in elementary school! Such good memories, I NEED to own this.
Absolutely brilliant.
Every time I read it, every time I love it more.
Many poems are my favorite, I can't write all of them here but couldn't resist myself sharing these two,The Nailbiter Some people manicure their nails, Some people trim them neatly, Some people keep them filed down, I bite ’em off completely.
Shel Silverstein was the author of my childhood, and I was surprised to find that, in (sort of) adulthood, A light in the Attic hasn't lost any of its charm. In fact, I've discovered new layers of humor and meaning I couldn't have processed when I was eight. I credit Shel Silverstein with my early love of poetry and, ultimately, literature. Recommend to anyone at any age, but a GREAT gift for a godson/ goddaughter, niece/ nephew, etc.. They'll cherish it forever!
به نظرم، دو شعر Deaf Donald و Ations (ترجمه شده: شعری در باب مفاعله) بسیار جالب هستند.
به نظرم، دو شعر Deaf Donald و‌ Ations (ترجمه شده: شعری در باب مفاعله) بسیار جالب هستند.
Shel Silverstein was misunderstood.He was a genius, but not an evil one.
Just a hilarious one.His books are looked at with suspicion.
But shouldn't be, because they are full of fun, pun, and literate value.
Here is why this one was challenged by others, however:"features a caricature of a person whose nude behind has been stung by a bee; the poem 'Little Abigail and the Beautiful Pony' is morbid; imparts a 'dreary' and 'negative' message; encourages kids to break dishes so that they won't have to wash them; suggestive illustrations; glorified Satan, suicide, cannibalism, and also encouraged children to be disobedient; suggests drug use, the occult, suicide, death, violence, disrespect for truth, disrespect for legitimate authority, rebellion against parents; behavior abusive to women and children, suicide is the best way to manipulate parents; mockery of God; selfish and disrespectful behavior; very vile; contained subliminal messages"
ماذا لوفي الليلة الفائتة وأنا متمدد غارق في التفكيرزحفت سلسلة من "ماذا لو" إلى أذنيوراحت تثِبُ وتحتفلُ طيلة الليلوتشدو أغنيتها "الماذا لو" القديمة:ماذا لو كنت غبيا في المدرسة؟ماذا لو أغلقوا بركة السباحة؟ماذا لو أُوسِعتُ ضربا؟ماذا لو كان هناك سمّ في فنجاني؟ماذا لو أجهشتُ بالبكاء؟وماذا لو مرضتُ ومتُ؟وماذا لو فشلت في الاختبار؟وماذا لو نبت لي شعر أخضر على صدري؟وماذا لو لم يحببني أحد؟وماذا لو صعقتني كرة البرق؟وماذا لو لم أطوَل؟ماذا لو صغُرَ رأسي؟وماذا لو أن السمكة لا تعض الطعم؟وماذا لو مزقت الريح طائرتي الورقية؟وماذا لو شنّوا حربا؟وماذا لو تطلّق والداي؟وماذا لو تأخر الباص؟وماذا لو نَمَت أسناني معوجة؟وماذا لو مزقتُ بنطالي؟وماذا لو لم أتعلم الرقص؟سرت الأمور على نحو رائعومن ثم،عاودت سلسلة الماذا لو الليلية هجومها ثانية!
এই বইটা বেশ অনেকদিন ধরে একটু একটু করে পড়ছিলাম। পাগলামির একশেষ। অদভুত একটা বই। উদভট সব কনসেপট। আজগুবি সব ছবি। তবুও আমার অনেএএএএক ভাল লেগেছে। পোয়েম গুলো মূলত ননসেনস পোয়েম। কিনতু বেশ অনেকগুলোরই ইনার ডেপথও আছে। বইয়ের পরায় দেড়শ পোয়েমের মাঝে দুই/একটা পোয়েম নিয়ে আমার আপততি থাকলেও সেটার জনয একটা তারা কেটে দেয়াটা উচিত হবে না বলেই মনে হল।ফাইনাল পরীকষার সটরেসফুল কয়েকটি সপতাহ জুড়ে সটরেস ভুলে কিছু সময় দাঁত বের করে হেসে কাটানো গেল এই বইটা থাকাতে। ধনযবাদ শেল সিলভারসটাইন। আপনাকে আমি ইংরেজি ভাষার সুকুমার রায় বলে
এই বইটা বেশ অনেকদিন ধরে একটু একটু করে পড়ছিলাম। পাগলামির একশেষ। অদ্ভুত একটা বই। উদ্ভট সব কনসেপ্ট। আজগুবি সব ছবি। তবুও আমার অনেএএএএক ভাল লেগেছে। পোয়েম গুলো মূলত ননসেন্স পোয়েম। কিন্তু বেশ অনেকগুলোরই ইনার ডেপথও আছে। বইয়ের প্রায় দেড়শ পোয়েমের মাঝে দুই/একটা পোয়েম নিয়ে আমার আপত্তি থাকলেও সেটার জন্য একটা তারা কেটে দেয়াটা উচিত হবে না বলেই মনে হল।ফাইনাল পরীক্ষার স্ট্রেসফুল কয়েকটি সপ্তাহ জুড়ে স্ট্রেস ভুলে কিছু সময় দাঁত বের করে হেসে কাটানো গেল এই বইটা থাকাতে। ধন্যবাদ শেল সিলভারস্টাইন। আপনাকে আমি ইংরেজি ভাষার সুকুমার রায় বলে ঘোষনা দিলাম! :D
Picture this,I am 7,its Christmas and all the gifts are wrapped and under the tree.I could see through the wrapping paper a faint outline of the cover of A Light in the Attic.I begged.I screamed.I was not allowed to open the present even though I knew what it was.But... I still have the original copy and read it to my son and because of my harrowing experience I love this book even more.
I am going to start out by saying I really loved this book. i have been getting into poems lately so i decided to read this. There really is no main story but is just a collage of poems. It is primarily meant for children but the values expressed in it are one everyone should know-no matter what age. Everything is pretty direct and simple so its not a chore to read. This is a very simple book that i think everyone should read.
Usually I don't like poetry books that much. I find them kind of boring. This book though was really good. I love Shel Silverstein's books and I plan on reading some of the others. This book is would be good for 3rd-6th graders. I like this book a lot better than any other poetry books I've read before. This book has a lot of interesting poems in it like Adventures of a Frisbee and It's all the same to the Clam.
A load of fun to read these poems. I can see how they might be considered a little subversive by some and can see how they banned this book for a little while somewhere! I'd buy this for all my little relations no problem.
These poems are so much fun! They talk about life in a very humorous way. And some of the poems are actually very profound, but simple to read. I loved it.
In the pantheon of literature shaping my nascent creative flicker, Shel Silverstein remains a master of lunacy and language.
Silverstein recognized children were smarter than adults acknowledged and wrote images filled with riddles, trap doors and passageways into the unknown.If confusion arose as to the meaning of any given story, there was no discernible moral interpretation at the end.
A self contained language filled with a meaning and clarity all its own which will be accessed only when you rediscover the precocious, curiosity you brought to the book as a child exploring literature for the first time.
(Snow White, witch of the west and Bobo Bear) He uses allusions to draw the readers in and allows them to form a personal connection with the poem.I believe the author did a great job using the elements of writers craft.
I love how Silverstein uses the country tone to tell the poem.
It seems like Silverstein had to do some research in order to create an authentic poem.I would use this book in my classroom to teach students how to write descriptive poems or stories.
I read this book with everyone else in the family besides my older sister and my dad.
I always like the Shel Sliverstine books that we get from the library but they are all a little disturbing.That said I have many favorite poems like What Did?
and Messy Room (I can relate.) I like all the poems (even if some of them are disturbing.) There are many ways to read this book ad the main to it is 50 poems at a time.
All the poems mean something different to me.
All that to say I hope you read this book.
I used this book for a talent show in Jr High. I don't remember what poem I did, but one that I incidentally memorized along the way is still really funny to me.  Crowded TubThere s too many kids in this tub.There s too many elbows to scrub.I just washed a behindThat I m sure wasn t mineThere s too many kids in this tub.I quote it for my kids and they look at me in shock and then start giggling. The imagery is just too good. :)
