https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/419627.Knowing_Scripture
The book comes with good warnings about how we might be abusing our gift of reading (and thus interpreting) our Bible, and gives some practical guidelines to help minimize our distortion.
When you read it (especially as a beginner) you begin to sense of the complex nature of the Bible, and how the more you know about it, the clearer and more meaningful it becomes.
Instead, I felt he looked unfavorably on any-such ploy to make God's Word more simple, and then poured out ideas and concepts to interest us in the more complex world of the Bible.In fact--he might give too much credit to our intelligence .
Grammatical-historical method focuses attention on original meaning of text, so we don't read into it our own ideas from present day.Practical Rules for Biblical InterpretationRule 1: Read Bible like any other bookWords are still words (verbs are verbs, nouns are nouns, etc.).
This helps us interpret passages such as 2 Pet 3:9 (which means God isn't pleased when people perish).Rom 3:28 says a man is justified by faith apart from works.
(18) Sproul isn't saying that only Christian laypeople are lazy when it comes to reading or studying the Bible, the whole Bible.
(30)In chapter two, Sproul discusses personal Bible study and private interpretation.
He writes, "No part of Scripture can be interpreted in such a way as to render it in conflict with what is clearly taught elsewhere in Scripture." (40)He spends a good deal of time in this chapter discussing the importance of reading the Bible literally.The term literal comes from the Latin litera meaning letter.
R.C. Sproul has easily become one of my fave author this month. This book was truly a gem and will definitely be one that I draw from repeatedly.
RC Sproul has a passion for the word of God and I will always enjoy reading his book with the expectation of having a hunger for the word of God. The importance of the word in my daily life and the application to the word.
Being our sinful nature, we can intrepret the word to fit the culture.
He even gives us a warning about our hearts which is a key to reading the word.
It is not a easy thing to be in the word daily with a devoted heart.
Despite only giving it four stars, I think this book is important and should be read by anyone seeking to understand the Bible.
Sproul gives priceless guidelines to reading which could preclude a great deal of doctrinal confusion for many readers.
Does he mean liberal in the way they translate certain words, certain doctrines, or liberal in their commentary?
(I suppose his many students over the years would understand what he means by the word, but most readers will not.) There was quite a bit of similar short treatments which left much to be desired.

wow!
wait did i say...WOW!
the cover should read super concentrated sheer awesomeness.
this thin book isn't shallow.
this is going on my small stack of books to read over and over.
the stack includes the bible(duh), the pursuit of godliness/practice of holiness, daws, the lost art of disciple making, spiritual disciplines of christian living, desiring god, and the legacy of sovereign joy, and the gospel primer oh and slave.
ok, so the stack isn't that small and its getting bigger all the time but you should see the, that was nice pass it on pile.
i try to leave the, oh...i just wasted my time books unread by me.
must read!
This is like a cross between How To Read the Bible for All Its Worth and Exegetical Fallacies by Carson.
Very sound teaching on what the Bible is and how to understand it, along with mistakes to avoid.
He bungled the translations portion by calling the NRSV a Functional Equivalent type and the NLT a paraphrase.
That's very minor though and just a very short section of the book.
He recommends another book for looking into that further.Highly recommended unless you already have a very good handle on hermeneutics.
Excellent, excellent book.
Sproul's defense for why you should study the Bible and seek to uphold correct doctrine was excellent, his hermeneutical guidelines were really well laid-out, and his section on to what extent cultural context should play into our interpretation of the Bible was also really well-done.
I was familiar with most of the hermeneutical principles before reading this book, but had never thought of them in a systematized, orderly fashion.
Combine that with a really robust defense of the importance of good theology to the average Christian, and this was a really enjoyable and profitable book to read.Rating: 4.5 Stars (Excellent).
Good book on hermaneutics and interpreting scripture. Also has some nice bible study tips at the end.
Great basic book for both beginning Bible readers and those who have been at it a long time. Insightful!
¡Muy práctico y útil!
This was a wonderful review of the techniques and responsibility to properly interpret and apply Scripture to my life!
So please pardon me when I borrow an overused phrase from contemporary silly car commercials, but Sproul’s little volume, Knowing Scripture, is truly “best-in-class” for concise books that help the reader interpret the Bible.Sproul’s writing is warm and friendly, almost whimsical at times, which belies the immensely intelligent, well-schooled, sharp mind behind the volume.
Maybe it is simple for him and for other men and women of his intellect, but I found it very challenging (and then found maintaining a hard-earned Greek and Hebrew vocabulary to be nigh unto impossible, since other demands crowd into post-seminary life).Knowing Scripture is truly the “best-in-class” volume for an introductory look at how to read and interpret the Bible.
So much for me to glean from this book. It is one that I will go back to time and time again as I work my way through God’s word.
Great! Just great!I wish I would have read this book a couple decades ago. Every Christian should read this book to better understand how to read the book.
Sproul is seeking to put the tools into the hands of his listeners.Over and over he provides general principles and approaches that should help to keep the reader from falling into common errors that have been present and prevalent within the Church for many years.The one proviso that I picked up on, and it isn't so much a criticism as it is an observation is that Sproul is a reformed theologian and he is not afraid to select some passages for use as an example as to how it is possible to "get something wrong." Some of his choices are bravely chosen from those that are among the more controversial, such as women's role in the church and some on the charismatic gifts.
Still this does not negate our responsibility to search the Scriptures ourselves as we seek to build a first hand relationship with Jesus Christ .Sproul covers all the necessary areas including the motivation to study and the challenge to combat our own laziness for a fruit that lasts.
He also covers the various types of writings in Scripture and the need to distinguish and interpret accordingly.The book closes with a very helpful chapter explaining and recommending the various types of tools (both in print and digital) available for every skill and budget.For those needing a positive motivation to study the Scriptures and the basic tools needed to get started, this book is a valuable resource

Directed toward laypeople, Sproul's introduction to biblical interpretation is very readable and practical and suggests strategies and resources to further one's study of the Bible.
He gives a few examples of doctrinal disputes that arise when biblical interpretation is done not so carefully and cautions the careful student of the Bible to note what it actually says.
Interestingly, he also warns against using Bibles with running commentary (e.g., the Scofield Reference Bible), not because of the doctrine they may contain, but because people may (and often do) conflate the notes with Scripture itself.
This is a great introductory text on Biblical Hermeneutics (the science of interpreting the Bible).
R.C. Sproul (who is a master at taking difficult concepts and breaking them down for the average churchgoer) shows that studying the Bible need not be a difficult task, but that a few simple guidelines can make it a workable task for anyone who truly wants to plumb the depths of the riches of the word of God. With this text, anyone doing bible study can avoid some of the elementary mistakes many people make in attempting to interpret the Bible, and be able to accurately discern its meaning, which will aid in its application in all other areas of life
A great book overall with useful information on how to study the bible.
I did find myself disagreeing with Sproul at some of his points, especially concerning his views on Textual Criticism, the KJV and the manuscript debate, but, these were very brief points and it doesn't take away from the overall usefulness of the book.
So if you want to know how to study the bible effectively, I highly recommend this useful book.
It's a book that you read but reread multiple times to put into practice what you've learnt.
Great companion to light a fire to get back into the word and pray for the ability to do what Sproul calls my duty- and I agree, it is. He highlights several real issues of the heart and the intellect when approaching the Bible. The best, in my opinion being that our own cultural secularism colors our interpretations more perhaps than the cultural norms of the time certain passages were written. He flips on its head one of the biggest objections to much of the Bible. Chapter 5 (the long one) is the best.
This was a great primer for understanding better how to study the Bible. It was required reading for my introduction to hermeneutics class. It really helped me understand how to study the scriptures way more in depth than I knew I could. You have this incredible marriage of literature and the working of the Holy Spirit while reading the Bible. I went most of my life not realizing the importance of understanding better the former.
Sproul gives a great introduction to understanding God's Word. He deals with common reasons or excuses that keep people from reading and studying as they should. Understanding the Bible as written literature, in its cultural context, in its timeless interpretation to believers today, and through translations or original language word studies are all issues he addresses. I really wish he'd gone a bit further and will probably be looking into some of the suggested resources that he lists.
Nothing new or earthbreaking, but it was articulated very well. I appreciated the author's humble but scholarly attitude toward controversial issues (Bible translations, study methods, denominations, etc.). While this book would probably be most helpful to new Christians, I think that even Christians who have been studying the Bible for years can enjoy and learn from the book's thoughtful but gracious approach to doctrinal disagreements.
This is another excellent book about how to study the Bible. R. C. Sproul does a good job of providing a volume that discusses the doctrine of Scripture and practical steps to interpret Scripture. Because of its brevity, it does not evaluate either topic as much as I'd like, but what's here is good. His style is conversational but educated and he has a nice turn of phrase that makes for interesting reading.
R.C. Sproul provides an excellent introduction into the science of studying the Bible. "Knowing Scripture" easily understandable, clear, and treats with honesty both strict and loose interpretation techniques. Unashamedly Christian and conservative, Sproul offers a foundation for studying the Bible that takes the text at face value, seeking to aid the reader in properly handling the Scriptures, so as to glean its proper meaning and then move from there to application.
Recomendado totalmente, debido a lo urgente de una correcta interpretación de La Biblia en un mundo lleno de subjetivismo y escepticismo. Lenguaje no técnico, accesible para todo cristiano que quiere conocer mejor la Palabra de su Señor. Me alegra que R.C. Sproul no defienda el modo reformado interpretativo. Sigue siendo un método de interpretación, del cuál creo yo es el más recomendado para todo amante de La Palabra de Dios.
