https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/5941114-the-likeness
I’ll never be free of her.
I wear her face; as I get older it’ll stay her changing mirror, the one glimpse of all the ages she never had.
I lived her life, for a few strange bright weeks; her blood went into making me what I am, the same way it went to make the bluebells and the hawthorn tree Some books hurt.
They squeeze your chest, they make your eyes sting with unshed tears.
It's a rare author who is able to evoke that kind of emotion in their readers, and I can only say that reading Tana Fr
It's a rare author who is able to evoke that kind of emotion in their readers, and I can only say that reading Tana French always brings a stab of exquisite pain to my heart.It's ridiculous, really.
I can't describe it as anything less than that.Like Rob Ryan in the previous book in this series, our main character, Cassie Maddox is broken.
It is up to the skill of the author to make them truly believable, and I fell in love with Cassie as I did with Rob. She feels like a sister, someone I want to hold and protect against the harshness of the world.
(B+) 77% | GoodNotes: Promises dark and edgy but turns up blunt. Its holdover heroine’s not nearly as interesting not being commented on.
There are times when trying on someone else's life for size seems like a very tempting idea. But how do you not lose yourself in it? This book shredded my heart into tiny little pieces. It made me reexperience that hollow, empty, lonely, lost feeling you have when you remember the intense and seemingly 'forever' friendships that have somehow, inexplicably just disintegrated.It made me miss people who once were crucial in my life - and are not there any more, for one reason or another. And I miss
Only people you want, need to be with; people who build their houses in your heart."The Likeness is the second book in the series by Tana French, focusing on Cassie Maddox, the partner of Detective Rob Ryan from her first book, In The Woods.
Yes, just like In The Woods, The Likeness is less of a crime whodunit (honestly, there's no reason why you would not figure out the killer's identity halfway through the book) and much more of a psychological f*ckery story, the attempt to explore people's inner desires and inner darkness - and the consequences of that."I wanted to tell her that being loved is a talent too, that it takes as much guts and as much work as loving; that some people, for whatever reason, never learn the knack."If you have a problem with an unbelievable premise, this book will frustrate you to no end.
rewriting secret history has become a goal for suspense writers everywhere, and anytime anyone writes a book featuring intelligent young people who share secrets and there is a murder, the great donna tartt is invoked.
and i remember really liking secret history, so i always read the impostors.
i had some time to kill before work yesterday and was cold and poor, so i just took the 7 train alll the way out and then alll the way back to read this - it's completely engrossing, as long as you suppress your protests.hiding outjust one of the guysdesperately seeking susantootsiesoul manweekend at bernie'sin the 80's these secret-identity movies were ubiquitous.
Like In The Woods, the book's greatest weakness is also perhaps its greatest strength: the comprehensive portrait of the characters and their personalities.French makes certain you know your narrator almost as well as you know yourself.
But it's not just the main character who gets such treatment - French builds up a detailed personality for everyone she introduces to make them seem like not just an accessory to the plot, but a person with thoughts, feelings and a past.
It only becomes a weakness when the plot stalls so we can explore the characters and I'm longing to know where the mystery will go next.The actual idea proposed by French here is rather ludicrous.
After reading just two Dublin Murder Squad books this month, I have made a spot for Tana French as one of my 3 all time favorite authors.
I had no idea where the author was taking us on this journey and loved the total unpredictability of the story.
The ending is well done and the wrapup is leisurely and detailed, just the way I like it.Though the mystery is superb, what I loved most was the masterful character study of Cassie Maddox.
The Dublin Murder Squad novels have quickly become one of my 3-4 most loved series.
She has taken some time off after the events from French’s first book, switched from the murder squad to domestic violence and is dating Sam. Rob Ryan has moved on – he may as well be chasing the man in black across the wasteland – he’s mentioned sparingly.But prior to being in murder, she was an undercover cop, and she and Detective Frank Mackey created an undercover alias for Cassie – Lexie Madison.
She wasn’t real, just a fake name and ID so that Cassie could work undercover.So.Imagine everyone’s surprise when Lexie Madison – who bears a striking LIKENESS to Cassie winds up stabbed in an abandoned famine house in County Wicklow, south of Dublin.And so begins Tana French’s brilliant The Likeness.
It was easy to get behind Tana French's work and bear with some of the problems I had with it.
It had glitches like pacing and organizing the chapters in their order.But I was also pleasantly surprised by the ease with which I could recall the characters and their motivations.I thought the book deserved 4 stars, which is a score that I don't give willy nilly.
The Likeness earned this score.
I realize not many people will be swept by my recommendation, if it's not their favorite genre.For those who have stuck with this series, I think I'll join you in waiting for the next book and I hope the author does not lose her inspiration.
And yet, I was so ready to love everything about The Likeness : In the Woods crushed me in the best way possible, the premise of this sequel, while rather ludicrous (shoot me, I don't believe for one second that someone could look so perfectly like me that she could fool my closed friends - call me arrogant, but Pl-ease), still awoke my interest and pretty much fascinated me...
Whilst I wasn't frustrated with In the Woods's conclusion, and thought that the somewhat openness suited the story, everything in The Likeness's ending feels lazy to me.
A doppelganger worthy of speculative fiction and people living in a variant of a Tolstoyan commune murder mystery. It reads like she's casting a spell along the lines of du Maurier's "Last night I dreamt I went to Manderley again. It seemed to me I stood by the iron gate..." I wasn't thrilled with the action scene, but that may just be me.
As mysterious as they appear to be in the beginning, Tana French presses every button to develop believable, interesting characters out of all of them, so much that at one point I didn't want this book to end anymore.→ 
While The Likeness could be read on its own, I recommend beginning with the first book to be able to capture the interesting character development and a lot of references made in this novel.A book about transformation, about human failure, about victims turning to perpetrators and culprits becoming victims.
4.5 stars"… Lexie Madison developed out of nothing like a Polaroid, she curled off the page and hung in the air like incense smoke, a girl with my face and a life from a half-forgotten dream."Four years ago, Detective Cassie Maddox went undercover as Lexie Madison, an identity she concocted with Detective Frank Mackey.
I’d thought I remembered what it was like, every detail, but I’d been wrong: memories are nothing, soft as gauze against the ruthless razor-fineness of that edge, beautiful and lethal, one tiny slip and it’ll slice to the bone."I loved Whitethorn House, the sinister little back lanes, and the scuttling of small animals that made me want to warn Cassie to stay alert!
When a woman resembling her is found with an ID bearing the same name Cassie used in an undercover case years before, Cassie is thrust into a life that isn't her own in an effort to find out who killed the woman with her face...The Likeness was a tough nut to crack.
The setup is fairly preposterous and was a big hurdle to overcome before I could dig into the book and enjoy Tana French's superb stylings.
Once I got over my initial misgivings with the setup, I enjoyed The Likeness immensely.
Update:I've no idea why I never wrote a review of Tana's 2nd book.
I loved Tana's first two books ...I liked them all (one I wasn't crazy about),The first TWO books are still favorites -- even though I was and still am a little mad at her for not bringing back my favorite character ....But I LOVE TANA FRENCH.
If nothing else ...the dialogue it's ALWAYS OUTSTANDING.I'm reading "The Trespasser" right now....AM LOVING THIS NEW 2016 release --.Its great to see Antoinnette Conway and her partner Steve Moran.
Tana French is 'on' her game with her new book -- it's exciting and fresh!!!
After being stunned by Tana French's opening novel, I was equally impressed with the second instalment of the Dublin Murder Squad.
After pulling Adam 'Rob' Ryan into the spotlight throughout the opening novel, French turns to his (former) partner and best friend, using both her backstory and previous work in Undercover to develop this equally gripping story.
French uses this 'swap out' to develop the struggles that Cassie Maddox had playing this faux character, as any undercover plant would while trying to hone in on what happened to the victim.
My first trip to Dublin wrecked my cold heart , and it took me a year and some excellent reinforcement to make me step back into the game. Trust me, Cassie, It was not just you who needed a timeout after operation Vestal. In Likeness, we find that Cassie has transferred from the Murder squad to relatively peaceful Domestic violence department. But when a body turns up near a village, she gets an urgent call from Detective Sam to report to the murder scene ASAP, and she finds herself staring at
In Likeness, we find that Cassie has transferred from the Murder squad to relatively peaceful Domestic violence department.
Yea. Before Cassie was a detective, she used to work in the Undercover department.
They made her up from nothing so that Cassie can use the fake identity for a case.
That was years before, and believe it or not, someone who looks like exactly like Cassie stole that (fake undercover) identity and been living in Dublin as a postgraduate art student.I know what you're thinking- 
Other than our returning characters Cassie and Sam, we are introduced to Frank Mackey from undercover, who is a tough detective with a manipulative streak.
This isn’t exactly a sequel but it is helpful to have read the first book in the series. The premise is outlandish and completely unbelievable. I decided to just go with it. I was rewarded with richly drawn characters reminiscent of The Secret History. French’s writing and understanding of the human psyche is always superb and this was not an exception. If you can get past the idea of a doppelganger being inserted into household of close friends without being recognized as an imposter, you’ll enjoy it. If that idea is too outrageous for you, give this a pass.
So, going against most other reviews, this book was so yawn making boring, just coudnt get to the end quick enough to get it over with.Tana French's first novel In The Woods was a good crime novel, this was not even in the same league, in fact I lost hope that it was a crime novel at all really.
It's wordy, very wordy, her prose is spectacular at times but why oh why does this book have to drag out paragraphs of mindless waffle?The plot is barely believable, a female detective looks so much like a dead girl that she slips into the dead girls life and home and nobody bats an eyelid?
Full review now up 😉3,5🌟A crazy BR with the best squad ever! Mimi and Sreyas 😉 Thanks guys for going into this rollercoaster ride with me!This book blew my mind!!! 😱 At first I felt like reading a not successful story from a soap opera with unlikely theory. That really REALLY annoyed me! But after some time and 200 pages in, the situation changed to better, even awesome! I ended up loving this book and craving for more! And it left me emotionally drained.... “Humor me,” Frank said. “Don’t tell
Reading the opening sentences in “The Likeness”, I felt like I was transferred into Rebecca’s story, with an old house full of haunted past.
Even the stories of both Whitehorn and Manderley are somehow connected….Like “In the Woods”, “The Likeness” centers on Dublin and we get yet another murder investigation for mah gurl, Cassie, who’s the main narrator 💜 Cassie’s emotional state is interesting to observe, the beauty of simple, ordinary life is explored in great attention and at the same time if left me craving for a comeback to the investigation, looking for suspects as it’s a detective story, dang it!
"We had worked together seamlessly, she and I. I had drawn her to this house, this life, every bit as neatly and surely as she had drawn me." Tana French knows how to conjure up the most charmingly creepy characters out of thin air like nobody's business - damaged individuals who go about life like sentient, breathing time bombs about to go off and leave a trail of wreckage consisting of wounded hearts and shattered illusions in the wake of their committed mistakes. Call this tale of blurred id
With no leads to follow and the mystery over the girl's true identity steadily deepening, Cassie decides to revisit her undercover roots (much to the chagrin of her gentle and considerate detective boyfriend Sam O'Neill) by masquerading as the victim, who somehow survived the assault, and returning to the secluded Whitethorn House with its assortment of 4 other inhabitants who are all PhD students of Trinity like Lexie, the murdered girl.
I think now, after reading two of Tana French's novels, I finally know what a good psychological thriller is.
I am now looking forward to reading the 3rd book in the series - Faithful Place - which, as far as I know, will focus on Frank, Cassie's undercover boss introduced in this novel.
I kind of like the idea of a series of books which stays fresh because of the narrator changes.The other complaint is that at times the story seemed too wordy - too much conversing, too much description, I just wanted it move along faster.
I am still intrigued enough to keep reading her books because something about the world she is creating is appealing to me.The Likeness follows Cassie Maddox, who was my favourite character from the previous book in the series (In the Woods), so I was immediately pleased with it.
But what follows is the most unrealistic premise imaginable; a girl who looks like Cassie and who took the place of her former undercover assignment, is found dead.
But I already have the next book and I will definitely pick that up whenever I feel like reading a crime novel.
SOO good. The writing, the characters, the plot. Basically everything about this was brilliant. It is quite a long read but it's never dull and never feels drawn out. I was engaged the whole time, curious what would happen, and totally satisfied with the ending. Now I really need to continue this series!
With her debut novel In the Woods and this 2008 follow-up, French's finesse with weaving homicide investigation, Irish locale and intense character study together knocked me out.The Likeness is narrated by Detective Cassie Maddox, a cop in her late twenties who recounts her recruitment to the UCD by the legendary head of undercover operations, Frank Mackey.
He learns that "Lexie Madison" arrived at Trinity College two and a half years ago and was finishing her PhD, "something to do with women writers and pseudonyms." Her known associates were her roommates, a tightly knit group of four postgrads: Daniel March (who inherited their residence, Whitethorn House, from his great-uncle), Abby Stone, Justin Mannering and Rafe Hyland.
This book.
If you have not read it- BUY IT AND READ IT NOW.
I've read all 5 (as of Oct 2015) in the series and this one is by far the best!
I really enjoyed Cassie's character from In the Woods, so I was excited to follow her in her own journey this time.
In short, Cassie agrees to go undercover posing as a girl who looks exactly like her but was murdered.
She lived in a house with her roommates; Cassie's mission is to assimilate back into the house and to find out who murdered Lexie (the girl was using the name Cassie had previously used undercover).
Detective Cassie Maddox goes undercover, with a twist - she's taking the place of a murder victim who looks just like her, and who had taken up residence in a cover identity that Cassie had created years before.
Understanding her mental state being a direct result of the events of the first book, however, goes a long way towards explaining why she's so easily sucked into her undercover life.
Now I've reached that terrible place where I want to stay in the world that the author has created, but have to wait for her to write another book.
So why not pretend “Lexie” survived and let Cassie move into the big house with the four close friends she lived with and try to figure out who killed Lexie?Why not, indeed?
Their planning together with Cassie reminded me a lot of the previous book, In the Woods, where Rob and Cassie, who were partners and best friends, took Sam under their wing and worked closely together to unravel a crime, also in a small Irish town.Frank is keen, Sam is against it, and Cassie is against it until she senses the familiar tingle of the thrill of the chase.
Impressive writing.
While the plot of replacing someone who was already using an assumed identity is improbable, French did a wonderful job of making it almost believable.
The plot has a strong psychological angle, as the orphaned Cassie goes undercover, and finds herself in a close-knit circle of friends that are almost like family.
Luckily for Cassie, they all have a rule of "no pasts," which helps protect her from inconsistencies in her story.
She slowly spirals into worse and worse decision-making, and we can see how her desire for family is clouding her judgement.
There was still about 100 pages left on my iPad by that point in the story and I thought the suspense would eat me alive!The relationship dynamics between the characters, their authenticity and dialogue (view spoiler)[Loved all of the slang included: geebag, mitching, prat, git, wankermobile, skint, wankstain, etc.
Some of Cassie's noteworthy thoughts?This girl: she bent reality around her like a lens bending light, she pleated it into so many flickering layers that you could never tell which one you were looking at, the longer you stared the dizzier you got.◈ Favorite lines spoken by Frank?“Bloody boggers,” Frank said.
Jerry Springer, eat your heart out.”◈ Favorite lines spoken by O'Kelly to Cassie?“I think you’re bloody certifiable, but nothing new there.
The arguments pro and against Cassie's involvement in 'Operation Mirror', as the murder investigation of Lexie Madison will be known, take almost as much space as a normal novel, slowing down the pacing of the investigation considerably, yet I consider it time well spent by giving the reader a better handle on the conflicted personality of the main character and laying down the groundwork for some future clashes with her two handlers - the amoral and dangerously manipulative Frank Mackey and the more rule abiding, patient and meticulous Sam O'Neill.
Cassie, like the secretive Lexie, is an orphan, self-reliant and comfortable living alone, at least until she met Rob, her former partner in Operation Vestal, the one who played a big part in getting her heart broken.
