https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/958280.Junie_B_Jones_and_the_Yucky_Blucky_Fruitcake
I know a lot of people who like this series so I thought I'd try one out with Ellie.
I didn't like the baby talk language it was written in ("I ranned and ranned") and found myself correcting the language as I read it out loud to Ellie.
However, the character is 5 - I don't know a lot of 5 year olds who still talk like that!Also, stupid and dumb and hate are throughout the book and those just aren't words I want Ellie to incorporate into her language yet.
Parental guidance is suggested if you're letting your kids check out reviews.I got this for my six year old niece last year because she was starting to get into "chapter books." I saw that the Junie B.
The book was only 77 grade one or two reading level pages, so I finished it in half an hour or so (I'm not sure because the kids were interrupting regularly, and sometimes if things got too quiet in the other room, I felt compelled to get up and take a peek at what was going on).
Jones and the Yucky Blucky Friutcake" is a realistic fiction book for primary readers, written by Barbara Parker.
Like many 5 year olds, Junie has a very hard time loosing.
After a disappointing evening at the school Carnival Night, she finally wins a cake at the Cake Walk - an yucky, blucky friutcake.I gave this book a 3-star rating because it was enjoyable to read.
I especially liked the fact that that the book is written from the perspective of a kindergartner.
Reading this book has given me a quick look into the 5 year old mind, which I appreciate.
I think it was a very funny book.
At the end I though it was very funny because she one a fruitcake but it wasn't what she thought was.
But it was actually useful for a seat because in her chair she is to short and she usually sits on a book but it hurts so at the end the fruitcake is soft and it makes taller!
Hope you liked it and hope you read Junie .B. Jones and the yucky blucky fruitcake because it is a really good book!!!!!!!!!
THANK YOU Barbara Park for creating the Junie B Jones books!!
Loved this book, a lot of fun! I sort of thought it would be a holiday book, but, it really wasn't so that was a bit surprising. Just fun and humorous, my 7 year old and I took turns reading it aloud. Even my mom enjoyed this book.
It was great!!!😄
Only when she goes to school to play the same games with her friends, she does not win.
After learning all of the games that will be at the carnival, Junie B.
decides she will go home and practice so that she can win EVERY game.
practiced the games differently at home and when she got to the carnival she expected those running each game to change how they were played.
Since none of the games were as Junie B.
Although she does not want to eat the fruitcake, she thinks it will be very useful to her!
They find her and make her apologize to the boy, Jim. Junie still has one ticket left, and her parents let her use it on the cake walk.
She found a very good use out of the fruitcake, even though it didn't look that good.Junie B.
She realized that you could still have fun even if you don't win.I think Junie B.
Jones and the Yucky Blucky Fruitcake is a very good short story for any age group.
Although, it is definitely written for young girls and boys, I think anyone would enjoy this book.
My friend recommended this series to me, for my 6 year old daughter.
I was looking for something to read to her (chapter book) at bedtime.
I am definitely not a grammar prude, however, here is an example of the kind of words and grammar in the first 2 chapters."Grampa Frank Miller the baby-sitter structions on me.""I winned all of those games, too.""Me and Grampa Miller played games today""Cause your feet are way gianter than mine."This book was very difficult for me to read as a read aloud.
Words like stupid, sucker, shut-up, nut ball, and cheater, are just a few of them in the first 2 chapters of this book.
I don't want my 6 year old daughter thinking this is the way kids should or do behave.
It's okay but its story is off at times and the bossiness of Junie was at a high level in this book.Carnival Day is coming up at school, where parents and teachers hold a carnival where kids play various games.
When the day comes, she loses at every game, throwing a fit in front of her parents and teachers and starting annoying temper tantrums- even young readers will find these parts extremely annoying.In the end, Junie wins a musical chairs-like game and gets to choose a cake that she can have.
As much as I love Junie B.
This book tells the story from Junie's point of view and uses her voice.
Sometimes Junie even gives her own definition to word that readers may not know, " glum is when the happy is gone all out of you." This would be a good series for younger readers who are just being introduced to chapter books.
This particular book of the series tells the story of Junie B.
I think a lot of the students would be able to relate to Junie B.'s glum feeling when she is losing the games at the carnival.
I may be stoned for saying so, I know many good mom's who love this series for their daughters, but I just cannot stand Junie B.
I have no desire to raise my daughters with the likes of this child as a literary role model.
While I am a fan of similar books such as the Ramona series, I can't get past this seemingly popular character.
This child is rude and has baby talked herself right onto my black list...
didn't know that I had a black list for books until these came along.
I would totally give this to one of my kids
My favorite line in this Junie B book comes when Junie B meets Meanie Jim's grandmother. She introduces herself, then says, "I hate your grandboy." Classic.
I was going through this crate of books I decided to give away and forgot I ever had this book and just decided to read it to my baby.
When I first read this as I child, I had no idea what fruitcake was so I did not understand why Junie reacted the way she did.
I think this book would be a fun one to read aloud to the class because the hoops Junie jumps through to get rid of this fruitcake would get some big laughs from the class.
I also think it would be a fun idea to make a little class cakewalk at the end of the book so that the students could experience a little bit of the book in real-life (not the fruitcake part, of course).
Junie B.
But when her teacher announces the upcoming carnival night, Junie B.
is determined to practice hard and win all the games at the carnival.
But the night does not go exactly as she's hoped, and when she does finally win a cake, she chooses the mysterious confection wrapped in aluminum foil, much to the dismay of her parents.
The middle of the story drags a bit as Junie B.
finds herself in the same losing position in various carnival games, but the ending was funny and clever.
I read this book many times back in my day, but pardon me if I don't remember everything.
Junie B Jones is a grade schooler and she goes to this school function where you can play games and win prizes.
By the time she is able to win a game, the cake walk, the only prize that's left is this fruit cake.
Junie B doesn't like fruit cake, and chaos ensues.
To be honest, who else would tell this story like she would?
I loved this book!!
However, I haven't tried fruit cake because of it...
I remember going to school carnivals when I was little, and playing musical chairs as well, so this book was a fun read for me because I can totally relate to Junie.
In this book, she gets to go to a carnival with her parents, yet she can’t seem to win anything and starts to get very frustrated with the games.
When she gets the chance to play musical chairs, and finally wins, of all the beautiful cupcakes and desserts she chooses for her prize, Junie picks out fruit cake because it sounds yummy.
Apparently the only books I am finishing these days are the ones I read to my son at bedtime.
Anyway, this entry in the Junie B.
Jones catalogue--which he has begged me to read twice in the last week--sees the intrepid kindergartner learning how to lose without being a "sore loser." As always, Park finds humor in a problem that all kids Junie B.'s age face and writes using words that kids understand.
Currently, my kid is more interested in Junie B.'s pranks and vocabulary ("behiney") than in any lesson the book has to teach, but maybe that will come later?
A childhood favorite. I used to read these books nonstop and check out stacks of them from the library. Now as I'm older, I think: was I able to relate to Junie B. Jones, or was I just interested in her adventures?Some people think this is too "hateful" and the incorrect English should not be exposed to children. I, on the other hand, think that children should understand that it's okay to be imperfect, and that people will love them despite that, even though sometimes people have disagreements. I believe that's what this series shows.
Jones books that I got when I was like seven and in third grade I still felt like I was very close to these books and around the end of third grade my teacher was trying to get rid of his books and he let us pick some of his books that he didn't want anymore and so I saw he had like three or so junie b jones books and I was like I need to have those books because I didn't have them in my junie b jones collection and I didn't read them yet at the time.
junie b jones is very bratty in those books and I just couldn't stand her at all.
Junie B. just wants to be a winner, against her grandpa, friends, and classmates at the school carnival. Life is hard when the games at the carnival aren't the same as what you practiced at home. Eventually Junie B. does win, just not using her cake in the typical fashion. Positive ending which helped because the build up was kind of stressful and annoying.
This is a book in a series about Junie. In this book Junie is at a carnival and gets into a lot of trouble as usual. The cake walk she thinks you really walk on cakes. IT is a funny book to read. She picked the fruitcake because she likes fruit, but when she got home and tried it she didn't like it.I rated this book 5/5 because it is a funny book to keep the reader's attention.
The school carnival does not turn out to be what Junie thought it would. Even the prizes she wins are less than appealing, until Junie comes up with a good use for them.(In later books, you can see her carnival comb hanging on her bedroom wall.)
The Junie B. Jones series was always one of my favorites growing up. But now that I'm older and rereading it it does show some aspects that I don't like. Although it fits the theme and they are fun reads, the language in the book seems to show bad habits to me.
Kept my kindergartner engaged while reading together, and he wanted to finish it all in one sitting. It was sometimes hard to read because of sentence structure, but it is totally how a 5 or 6 year old talks, so points for accuracy. Definitely looking for more in this series.
These books grew on me after quite a bit of time, because the first one put me off. The fact that a sweet little soul is within that brat called Junie which shines in at the end is charming. The comic aspect with people having aspirin repeatedly due to her obnoxiousness saves the stories as well.
So cute, written in the voice of a five year old but with seasoned literary dexterity. Judah (my 4 year-old son) and I laughed through every chapter over a series of bedtime readings. We are happily making our way through four books in this series.
Junie B Jones is the best. In this story, she kind of learns how to deal with disappointment. Super funny! I love reading these.
