https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/40331.To_the_Nines
Book Review  3 out of 5 stars for To the Nines, the 9th book in the "Stephanie Plum" cozy mystery series, written in 2002 by Janet Evanovich. And with this review, I am officially caught up on older reads for this series... and I can now pickup where I left off by reading book 19 this summer... and it will be a much more detailed and thorough review. In this one, #9, Stephanie is chasing an illegal immigrant as her bail jumper. While hilarious and funny, this one didn't feel as strong as the r
Book Review
3 out of 5 stars for To the Nines, the 9th book in the "Stephanie Plum" cozy mystery series, written in 2002 by Janet Evanovich.
And with this review, I am officially caught up on older reads for this series...
and I can now pickup where I left off by reading book 19 this summer...
and it will be a much more detailed and thorough review.
While hilarious and funny, this one didn't feel as strong as the rest.
you won't know unless you check it out.
here's the scoop: I read A LOT.
You know how it is when you are reading a "mystery" and you know who the bad guy is the moment you meet them, but the good guys can't see it - ever?! It's so frustrating, and frankly, I've had my moments of wondering about the intelligence level of all of these people.. It was so freaking obvious!! Maybe it's the New Jersey water or something. If you're born in Jersey, you know how to rise to a challenge. Bring on the Mob. Bring on bad air. Bring on taxes and obesity, diabetes, heart disease, an
Maybe it's the New Jersey water or something.
Except for the most obvious serial killer in Jersey.
The good news is that this case takes her, Lula, and Connie to Las Vegas.
Lula on a protein diet is really fun!
The guilt.Lula's protein diet means she walks around with meat in her purse.
She's a dog's best friend these days.Lula's the alpha of the packWith the serial killer stalking Stephanie, she has both Morelli and Ranger trying to keep her safe.
Not serial killer accidents - Stephanie accidents.
Why do I have to be the one to have a daughter who shoots people?"
I was hesitant to continue reading this series because it had been close to a year and a half since I read the previous novel and thought that I would have forgotten what has happened.
The crimes/mystery component of these novels can become repetitive and predictable (notsomuch for this installment) so I really do read these novels for the characters.As for the romance, in similar feelings to the previous novel, I am getting frustrated!
It was such a fun, quick read and I’m happy to have continued the series (finally).
Nine, I made it to Nine, but alas, I think this is where Stephanie and I must part ways, for the time being at least.
Stephanie is once again, the object of some mad man’s sadistic fantasies, but I must confess, I have grown tired of the crime solving scenarios.
I’m in this series for three things, Morelli, Ranger, and Lula, the ex ho turned file clerk/ purse welding mo fo.
I’m now pulling for Ranger, but as I see no future there, I feel aimless, just like the series is slowly becoming.
Stephanie gets a haircut and channels Don King
I almost always figure out who the "bad guy" is early in the book.
But, this one kept me guessing for quite a while.
Maybe because Clyde's character was usually written as a "good guy" or a small time criminal.
But, for the doughy geek to be a master criminal was unexpected.Reread — May 2018Still can only find a few clues as to the Web Master along the way.
But the main thing I got out of this reread (relistening?) was the new status of Steph’s apartment.
Three kids, two adults...one bedroom and bathroom.
Baby screaming, kid galloping?
Stephanie will have many sessions of hot, hot, toe-curling sex with Joe Morelli and will fantasize about toe-curling sex with Ranger.
Every woman who comes in contact with him will imagine Ranger naked and fantasize about toe-curling sex with him, but Ranger only has eyes for Stephanie.
Oh, yes, Stephanie will be stalked by some crazy, sadistic S.O.B. who will frighten her severely and put her friends and/or family in danger, but in the end it will all end happily with Stephanie and Joe ready to fall into bed.
Again.Yep, I'm definitely ready for a break from this series.
Although I had pretty much guessed the outcome of this book early on, it was still a great read.
Any time the love triangle between Stephanie, Morelli and Ranger is focused on I am in heaven.
And the more danger Stephanie is in, the better those tensions get.
Plus this book had the added bonus of a trip to Vegas, which was fun to read about since I live there.
Although there were no cars damaged by Steph's bad luck, Ranger's crew getting banged up by her natural ability to be in the middle of havok was highly amusing.
Not as good as books 5-8 but still an excellent read.
As all of the books in the Stephanie Plum series, to the Nines is filled with death, destruction and tingling cores.Stephanie finds herself knee-deep in body guards, Vegas slot machines, pooping dogs and slinging around ding-dongs.Morelli was invigorated by sex. An orgasm for Morelli was like taking a vitamin pill. The more orgasms he had, the sharper he got. I’m the opposite. For me, an orgasm is like a shot of Valium. A night with Morelli and the next morning I’m a big contented cow.<./i&gt
As all of the books in the Stephanie Plum series, to the Nines is filled with death, destruction and tingling cores.Stephanie finds herself knee-deep in body guards, Vegas slot machines, pooping dogs and slinging around ding-dongs.Morelli was invigorated by sex.
An orgasm for Morelli was like taking a vitamin pill.
A night with Morelli and the next morning I’m a big contented cow.<./i>Lula goes on a special all meat diet.
And then from the corner of my eye I caught sight of Lula pitching a giant hot-pink satin thong at Tom Jones.
I also was caught between liking and getting really bored of the whole Ranger/Morelli think.
Steph said it best when she compared Morelli's relationship with Terry Gilman to her relationship to Ranger.I just hope Morelli hasn't (at least recently because we know his past)gotten as close to Terry as Stephanie has gotten to Ranger.
I understand his ire with Ranger's closeness and I thought Steph's jealousy was equally hilarious but I also think that I can't wait until matters are settled once and for all.
To the Nines by Janet Evanovich is the 9th Stephanie Plum novel. Bounty hunter, Stephanie Plum, is assigned to help find Samuel Singh who has skipped on his visa bond and becomes targeted by a serial killer who taunts her with flowers. A fun book with plenty of laughs. Its always fun to catch up with all the characters and is a good series to turn to if you want a good laugh and to feel good. Lulu is especially hilarious with her new diet. Very entertaining.
Every part of this book, the humor, the mystery, and the romance, came together perfectly to make a seriously fabulous book.This book had some of the funniest material I've seen in a book.
When she wasn't doing either of these, Stephanie was going through Ranger's employees like she usually does with his cars.
The mystery was a great plot and kept the book going smoothly.
Stephanie is somewhat dating Joe in this book while also spending some quality time with Ranger.
The other regulars -- Bob the dog, Grandma Mazur, Vinny, the parents, sister Valerie (and father-to-be Kloughn) -- especially fellow "helper" Lulu, whose dieting efforts in the story were outrageously funny, contributed to the good humor we had come to expect from the earlier books.
Evanovich even managed to work in some subtle relationship and trust commentary regarding close colleagues of the opposite gender, involving separately both Steph and her current roommate Morelli.So -- not just a good beach book, but Plum back in her finest with an honest to goodness whodunit, with the crazy funny cast of supporting characters all in good form.
She gets to learn how slot-machine parts are made AND go to Vegas, which involves Lula going through TSA screen (they confiscate the meat in her purse) and riding on a plane.
The whole thing turns out be a red herring, and Stephanie gets involved with a creepy game-playing serial killer who leaves her flowers and threatening notes.
THEY'RE DEATH FLOWERS."Lula: "Well, yeah, but they're still nice."Lula: "It's a sin to throw food away."Stephanie: "Neither of us needs this food, so God's just going to have to understand."Lula: "I think you might be blaspheming God."Stephanie: "I'm not blaspheming god."Lula: "Give me that food bag.
I continue to listen to the audio version. This tuned out to be my favorite so far in the series.
Stephanie Plum would a series that you turn to for some mindless reading and comic relief from every day stress.This book served this purpose well.
I must have looked like an idiot when I bursted out laughing while reading the book on the subway, but some things were just too funny to hold back.
Some key moments for me:- Stephanie and gang travelling to Las Vegas and got searched at the airport security- Lula's supermodel diets- Tank getting hurt while helping Stephanie with some apprehension- Valerie giving birth and squirting water all over Cal (another one of Ranger's men assigned to bodyguard Stephanie) and then Cal getting a concussion by bumping his head on the floor when he fellIn this book, Stephanie became the target of a killer when she got involved in a missing person case.
The not so dainty Lula wants to look like a supermodel so she tries an all meat diet.
well Evanovich spins this portion of the story like a top.
Ranger hates leaving Stephanie alone on her excursions, nothing bad has ever happened on a mission, right?!?
Well the group of Merry Men that Ranger sends to guard Stephanie get caught up in her collateral damage too.
The big and burly Merry Men, Cal and Tank, both fall victim to Stephanie's usual run of bad luck.
These books do have story lines but the everyday stuff definitely drives the car in these books.
Rereading
Just like every other Stephanie Plum mystery / adventure, To the Nines is a fun, entertaining ride.
Even Morelli and Ranger have accepted the situation and are willing to work together to keep Stephanie out of trouble..
which follows Steph around.Stephanie and her best friend, Lula, are tasked by their boss and Steph's cousin, Vinnie, to bring in Samuel Singh, who has disappeared.
Steph, Connie (Vinnie's assistant) and Lula take a trip to Vegas to try and track down Singh.
So much going on and such fun to read.If you're feeling blue at all, try a Plum mystery.
Stephanie's latest case involves a trip to Las Vegas searching for a guy who jumped bail and abducted a dog in the process.
As always this series is full of crazy but hilarious situations (in this case made even funnier by Lula's latest fad diet), Stephanie running around like a headless chicken trying to work out what the heck is going on around her and the ongoing mess of her romantic life where she can't seem to make a final decision between Morelli and Ranger.Ranger is used to Stephanie destroying his cars but this time around it's his men she keeps wiping out with a series of ever more bemusing accidents.
Morelli, Ranger, and "His Merry Men" are all once again trying to keep Stephanie safe.
He is hunting her down and takes two of the people closest to her as hostages.
Grandma Mazur is watching porn and has taken to imagining Ranger naked (who wouldn't?).
AND Stephanie decides to catch Morelli in the act of "hiding the salami" with a mob princess...
I can't think of anything awful enough to do to you that wouldn't leave you maimed of psychologically scarred."Stephanie: "Nice to know there are boundaries."Lulu: "I feel like Michael J.
I actually chuckled out loud a few times, which hadn't happened in a long time where these books are concerned, and there weren't nearly as many of the repetitive elements that plague this series in later books.
Still, I was able to work out who the villain was at least a hundred and fifty pages before Steph, so it clearly wasn't the greatest of mysteries.
At least it was more interesting than a lot of the other cases Steph deals with??
Frankly, it's just a relief that this had far less of the "Morelli or Ranger?" bullshit that the later books are rife with.
It did take me a bit to get into the scenarios Evanovich creates, but once I did, I couldn't stop laughing.
My husband is always demanding to know what I am laughing so hysterically at while I am reading them and whenever I oblige and tell him or read him the scene, he looks at me like I am crazy.
When told to the outside observer, the plots sound horrific and not at all something to be laughed at, but when completely immersed into Evanovich's writing style and characters, these books are the only thing I have found in a long time that make me laugh out loud.
Another great one.
I enjoyed reading this one and am hating Joe more and more, while liking Ranger more and more.
The crazies are out and the devastation on people instead of cars was pretty good.
I'm waiting to see what the pay-back is.
That's gonna be gooooood.
;) I loved the characters and the intros of more Merry Men, and their hapless intros to the Bombshell.
The ending was page-turning and a little scary.
The Eye had a set back but recovered as planned in the end.
The family dynamics are good.
Enjoy
Ok, these books are easy, fun, fluffy one-evening reads that I'm really enjoying.
There's only one thing that really bugs me.
She over-uses "angle" as a verb, usually relating to people getting into cars...ie "He angled himself into the car and left." For me that paints a mental picture of somebody who has parked too close to the car in the next slot and must carefully open the door 6 inches and work his/her way into the driver's seat....however that's not the case in these books.
I seriously want to tell them to just open the damn door wider and get in.
Stephanie is on the case on a new type of bond that Vinnie issued.
It was supposed to be an easy bond, no shooting or death involved, but it's Stephanie, and things always happen to Stephanie.
She goes after the missing "skip" with the help of Ranger, ahh Ranger, needed that moment.
Stephanie finds herself in the middle of a game that has her as the ultimate death prize.
The least likely killer set her in his sights and of course was taken down in the end.
Valerie had her baby and of course the on again off again relationship with Stephanie continues.
3.5 Stars This one wasn't as funny as the previous ones and neither was the mystery too great. A little disappointed but I'll continue the series anyway.And, uh no one in India is named "Apusenja" , you could have done a bit research Ms. Evanovich and next time you want an Indian name for your book you have my permission to use mine. ;)
Another great edition to the Stephanie Plum series!
Great book enjoyed it a lot
3.5/5
Another great book in the series full of mishaps accidents near Jeff and hijinks love love them.
