https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/194527.A_History_of_Western_Music
[To listen as you read.] The audience for “serious” music—art music of a certain complexity that requires some effort to understand—has never been more than a small fraction of the population. What seems like a long time ago, I worked in a university music department as a professor’s office assistant. At the time, I was trying to improve my meager understanding of art history by reading E.H. Gombrich’s excellent Story of Art. Seeing art as an integral part of civilized society, in the context of
At the time, I was trying to improve my meager understanding of art history by reading E.H. Gombrich’s excellent Story of Art. Seeing art as an integral part of civilized society, in the context of historical change—rather than as decontextualized globs of color on canvass—really helped me to appreciate it in a way I could not before; and I wondered if the same might not be possible with music.One day I asked my boss if there was a book similar to Gombrich’s about music, and he responded with one word: “Grout.” Finally I’ve gotten around to following up his recommendation.
The book itself is beautifully printed and bound; on the cover is a gorgeous work by the impressionist painter Renoir, and on the inside awaits crisp, glossy pages lined in full-colour and laid out in a simple and classy theme, which is so often not the case with textbooks.
(For comparison, the only textbooks I own which are comparable in their physical beauty are Kandel's Principles of Neural Science and Molecular Biology of the Cell, both also the standard works of general reference in their own fields).
i'm such a nerd. i've never read this cover to cover, but i've probably read every page at least once, and i'm getting ready to the whole cover to cover thing soon for a big exam. i <3 the grout, and each edition has been better than the previous. it even has a few chicks and black people in it now. no black chicks yet. are there any other grout nerds out there?
Marvelous introduction to Music History in Western Civilization.My copy was well-worn, and almost purloined by Igor Stravinsky, who misunderstood I wanted to autograph the page with a sketch of him by Picasso. Dr. Edgar Sholund of Chapman College
Everybody else in my class hates this book, but I think it's wonderful. It does go into a lot of detail about the form and structure of specific pieces. But even that information can be useful and interesting. If you want a resource on music history, this is great. It provides great historical context for the development of musical eras and genres, and makes lots of parallels to literature and art too.
Read for MUS 221-Brief overviews of cultural movements-Summaries of musical eras-Short biographies of important composers-Analysis of select musical pieces
Read it as a review for my qualification exams in grad school. Not thrilling reading, but a good overview of the history of western classical music. I recommend it for any music grad student who needs to bone up on history for history or qual exams.Because it is by design an overview, it obviously can't go too deep into any one topic. For my purposes it was great because it went into just enough detail of medieval and renaissance music but didn't get lost in the weeds.
A good introduction to the history of Western music, assuming that by "Western" they mean "mostly white men." Still, a good starting point from which to dive off into bits of musical history that were whitewashed or carefully curated over, not just in this book but in most histories of Western music.Took me five years but I conquered you, HoWM!
Pretty good book covering the whole history of western music! I wish I read it more when I was actually in my music history classes, but it explains things in a very clear and concise way!
Yip.
His deliberate appeal to a middle-class audience in the oratorios was one of the first manifestations of a social change which continued throughout the latter half of the century, and which had far-reaching effects on the evolution of music… The vast intellect of this lord of music seems to have embraced both the past and the future in one superb and comprehensive grasp.(Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart) His work is a synthesis of the ideas of the late eighteenth century, a magic mirror in which was reflected the music of the whole period, illuminated by his own transcendent genius.
The influence of Bach was deep and lasting; it is manifested in the increasing use of contrapuntal texture throughout Mozart’s later works and in the profoundly serious moods of The Magic Flute and the Requiem.The word Romanticism should not be too narrowly confined to a literary manner.
Iedereen die is geïnteresseerd in de westerse klassieke muziek en haar geschiedenis kent wel het standaardwerk Geschiedenis van de westerse muziek van Donald J.
Het historisch overzicht van Grouts westerse muziekgeschiedenis kan niet getypeerd worden als volledig: het is toereikend voor een gedegen inzicht in vooral de klassieke muziekgeschiedenis, waarover uitputtend wordt geschreven.Een kwaliteit die dit boek tot een succes maakt is de overzichtelijkheid.
Na diverse hoofdstukken volgt, bij belangrijke scheidingen qua inhoud, een samenvatting van de belangrijkste muzikale ontwikkelingen.Kortom, het boek is een compleet standaardwerk, overzichtelijk en vlot geschreven, en voorzien van een uitstekend literatuuroverzicht en een uitgebreide index op zaken en persoonsnamen.Lees de volledige recensie van Enne Koops op http://bit.ly/1cYIJyN
I appreciate how the book consistently touches on the political, intellectual, and religious movements alongside with the development of music in a given era.
The context helps keep everything grounded in the real world so it's easier to relate, understand, and memorize the plethora of musicians and the underlying meaning behind their works.
Explanation of the material never gets too difficult to understand.
A first-year theory understanding of music should all be that is necessary to read the book.Some topics could have been delved more into, but understandably, it's a difficult balance between conciseness and content that these types of books can't help but sacrifice one or the other somewhere along the line.
I mean it was in college...but still counts right? Very straight forward and informative.
I read this book to pass the Praxis exam for music teachers.
It took about four months to read, and I ended up buying four other books to use as references, most of them music theory books.I learned more about music from reading this book than I had in the twenty-nine years and eight months prior to picking it up.
His writing style is very dense - when I say four months, I mean four months, several hours a day of reading, note taking, cross referencing and plunking on the piano to hear what he was talking about.
And not just because I passed the Praxis.
I can finally say I have successfully read this tome in its entirety.
It provides a very comprehensive history.
Although the recent editions edited by J.
Peter Burkholder are conveniently written to correspond with the Norton Anthologies in a very useful way, it makes the two resources sometimes seem redundant.
My other real complaint is that parts of this volume are not as objective as I would like - using qualitative judgments in situations when objective descriptions would be more useful.
On the whole, however, the reasons are clear as to why this remains the definitive history text for students of western music.
The sections on Greek and Rome music theory and philosophy was fascinating- as well as the troubadours during the middle ages, and the short bio's from some of the composers from the baroque, classical and romantic periods- but the music theory for most of this book was just long and drawn out. This is not a book to read if you just want an overview of composers and famous classical pieces. The information goes into a lot of depth. But, for those who are music majors, reading this book will be very beneficial.
As a resource, it's nice -- pretty comprehensive, gives just enough details to either pique your interest in a certain topic or give you the certainty that you don't really care, etc. Rather dense, but if you're very much into music history, it's great. Otherwise -- unless you're also looking for a sleep aid, a paperweight, or something very large and heavy to collect dust on your bookshelf -- stay far away. You have to really want the knowledge.Music students: Good luck.
Just finished reading this book from cover to cover in preparation for graduate school entrance exams (granted, it was only the third edition, which is much shorter than the current version). Whew! It was difficult to get through, and I have a feeling the current edition has a better layout and is easier to follow. Still, it was a good review, but left much to be desired (you can only fit so much detail in a 750 page book on the entire history of Western music!).
Well written documentary style of western history through the ages. I read selections relating to Baroque, Classical and musical Romantic periods for college paper. Despite not being familiar with most aspects of these time periods prior to writing my paper for college, was able to grasp most of the concepts from numerous genres of music (vocal, instrumental, theater, etc.) and write a decent paper earning full marks (equivalent to an A).
Comprehensive for college music majors only. Grout is comprehensive and difficult. It is a historic effort that challenges anyone with passion for music. This book made me want to write a different book. For a different approach to music appreciation check out www.interactivelistening.com all of the music and videos are built into the ebook.
It has a great depth and breadth of information--if you can find it. The book is poorly organized and sections are ordered in a counter-intuitive way. Again, a good thorough survey text that deserves its place as the standard of Western music history. Pity you'll have trouble finding things in it.
This textbook is one of the standard texts that surveys Western music history from antiquity up to present times. It's used in many Western music history courses for undergraduates. Burkholder did well to revise the book to reflect recent historical research, and used his knowledge of twentieth and twenty-first century music to provide much more information for more recent trends in music.
A lot of material here. It's composers are presented roughly chronologically and it's not until 200 pages in that Monteverdi is covered and then another 100 until Bach. Would be nice to have a multimedia version of this book, so you could listen to the music described.
Bom livro para início de estudo, para ter alguma noção cronológica ainda sem grandes pormenores.Ter em conta o estado da musicologia histórica e social da época de escrita.Falta-lhe contextualização política e social, a música não acontece num balão isolada do mundo.
I love history and context and I am a musician. Again a book I read while studying. I had to rate it higher than counterpoint and theory books simply based on my own preference of subject. Another book to be read by the music student or enthusiast.
Great book. But let's be honest, it's a text book. If you need to study music history, get it now. If you don't but have an interest and God only knows how many hours to kill, it's readable and certainly will give you a great survey of music from Ancient Greece up until the present.
I can't believe the amount of information stored in this book. Nevertheless, it is well written and a joy to read, but I'm glad it was translated into Dutch.
Got me through my degree!
the most boring book ever written; total torture for every music major on the planet
