https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/668282.The_Driver_s_Seat
I've been told the Scandinavian airlines are fairly reliable in that respect."I will be closing this review with a smile on my face, thinking of my dear heathen home country, where books are bought to match curtains, and thanking Mrs Spark for her genius tragedy-novella!The murderee is dead, long live the murderee!And Nicola: I don't blame you for copying Lise, who wouldn't feel tempted?
I thought it was satire, until I opened my free weekend newspaper and read an article that made me think Muriel Spark was a master of foreshadowing things she didn't even know existed:Saturday, 17th September 2016, a reportage about a Swedish author (of crime fiction, of course) and her sense of home styling in bright colours.
My thinking was engaged, and my philosophical curiosity was certainly feeling it, but my compassion, my inner core tethered to the human condition, felt mostly ignored.I say mostly...but not completely...because the climax of the story went a long way towards rehabilitating all my complaints.
This work felt a bit like “anti-Kafka.” By this I mean that, instead of a normal person waking up in a world gone mad and unknowable, Lise begins the story loaded with crazy and proceeds to impose her madness on the society around her.
Naw, and three times it is I've read it the noo, can you believe that?
I assured him that I got my kicks in books rather than real life, but now that I have been driven to distraction by Ms Spark, I'm beginning to think that he was more concerned about the deleterious effect on my sanity that the reading process would bring than the fear that Ms Spark might inspire me to try for the garish temptress look.
Muriel Spark had enough brains for two normal people but this little novel was almost completely stupid.
That, I think, is because it doesn't tell us a single thing that we want to know.(view spoiler)[ This is very true - I do not wish to know that this world is one in which a woman with a responsible job and a steady life freaks out one day and rushes about trying to find a man who will murder her; & having located him, has to cajole and persuade him into stabbing her to death.
(hide spoiler)]Okay, as ever, I usually try to find something I liked in a book I hated, and this made me smile.
Lise, women like her, I have not infrequently heard referred to as "bitches on wheels." She lies pathologically, casually steals cars, and perceives personal insults in matters that really have nothing to do with her.
These jaunts devolve in time to a colloquy on who might or might not be "Lise's man," with Mrs. Friedke blithely oblivious to the real purpose this fellow is to serve.
In that longer book, another woman, Nicola Six, methodically sets out to locate her murderer.
There are passages in both books, too, which self-describe them as "whydoits" as opposed to whodunits.
This book is loco, man. We're talking Miss Lonelyhearts-loco, Lime Twig-loco, Violent Bear It Away-loco. A death-haunted fever dream that hits you like absinthe and leaves you wide-eyed and paranoid. Loved it.
This is a novella, a quick read and perhaps one that is better read at one sitting so that the tension can build. Its totally upfront, we know what is going to happen a quarter of the way through the book and it just remains for the story to play itself out. How it does is what you think of after you've finished the book, and in fact that is probably the most enjoyable bit. Its very clever and creepy creepy creepy.
This is a strange little book, but one I won't soon forget. To say there is foreshadowing is an understatement; Spark tells you right away what happens to Lise, the star of the show. But that doesn't take away from the story at all. You can be sure of one thing if you pick this book up, Muriel Spark's writing will not disappoint.
I will forward two theories, not mutually exclusive.Suicides, especially those who have been planning to kill themselves for a long time, tend to be dramatic (think '13 reasons why'), knowing you are going to die soon, must mean that you want to leave some impact on the world.
Is that why Lise works hard to leave a trail behind?
In the first chapter, there is the first reference to the  'glass ceiling' I have found in literature when Lise is described as having 'five girls under her and two men.

I don't think I agree with John Lanchester's reading at all.
I don't think the story expresses a horror of modernity itself, certainly not of emancipation, sexual or otherwise.
Lanchester seems to lack all sensitivity to these potentially radical possibilities.What most puzzled me was deciding what depth, what quality of sympathy I need to have with Lise.
That three men attempt to rape Lise seems to me to express frustration at just how difficult it has been for women to wrest control of their lives, their subjectivities, their texts.
Ooft. That's how you write a fucking novella.
The book is about a chain of events that unfolds when she takes a holiday in an unspecified location, constantly changing her voice, attitude and demeanour as she encounters a number of odd characters who she repeatedly abandons, moving on to the next strange situation, looking - she keeps telling people - for a man who is her 'type', whatever that may mean.
I had actually guessed Lise's aim early in the book, but I was still compelled to read on to see if I could come to understand the character and her motivations.
muriel spark really intrigues me, almost enough to make me break my rule about not learning anything about writers i admire.
it would not surprise me to learn that she was a nun, or maybe killed forty people with an axe.
but, in any case, this book was a delight, and made my hair stand on end the whole time.
in it, gary kasparov was said to have commented, based upon her games, "if to 'play like a girl' meant anything in chess, it would mean relentless aggression." that reminded me a lot of this book.
As the buoyant, frenetic Lise, dressed in clashing colors, goes on holiday in Genoa on the hunt for "her type," she meets the elderly Mrs. Fiedke.
The two team up for a shopping spree (slippers for Mrs F's nephew; a food mixer, among other things, for Lise):"They are demanding equal rights with us," says Mrs. Fiedke.
But they want their equality.
With all due respect to Mr. Fiedke, may he rest in peace, the male sex is getting out of hand.
Next thing, they'll want the upper hand.
This review was first posted on BookLikes:http://brokentune.booklikes.com/post/... Also, before you read on, please note that this review contains SPOILERS! What kind of person would go ballistic on finding out that the dress she was looking to buy is made of a fabric that does not stain?Anyone? Anyone?Nope, I don't know anyone to do something like this either but guessing from the way the story of The Driver's Seat develops, Lise is not like most people - Lise is having a breakdown.I say I'm gu
Also, before you read on, please note that this review contains SPOILERS!
All we get to know is what Lise does and that she will die, but not what she thinks.Therefore, we are faced with the task of deducing her mindset, her character, from her actions.
Guessing just as much why Lise objects to a stain-proof dress, why she walks out of her job after 16 years, why she goes on a trip, and why she makes up a net of lies and personas in the course of her adventure.
Or should this be mis-adventure?This is a short but utterly compelling read.
(3.5) The human mind is a strange, complex, silly thing.
If our mind isn't strong enough, we find other ways to get what we want.Lise is not a character that you feel bad for as you're reading about her struggles with reality.
She is a unique character - (view spoiler)[she wants to die, but only on her terms.
(hide spoiler)]Some characters make you feel what they feel, as you try to relate to them in their portrayal of their mental anguish, but Lise is odd; you don't realize how clever she is until the end, when things get tied together.
Interesting read.
A murder will be committed.
Who murders whom and why are the questions asked.
Who is murdered we find out very soon.
As in all of Spark’s books.I do not believe an answer to the question asked can be found in the novella.
I would like to read these two books:*Muriel Spark: The Biography *Appointment in Arezzo: My Life with Muriel SparkThe audiobook narration by Judi Dench is very well done.
You do not think that someone is narrating, you just listen to the story.
This book is no exception; in fact, it may be the pinnacle of her kind of writing.Lise is a somewhat (and maybe more) crazy office worker who is off for a holiday in some undisclosed European country.
Without coming out and directly telling us this woman is tottering on a precipice, Spark lets us know from the start that Lise is, to put it mildly, unwell.
Not laugh at loud funny but feel a little sick in your stomach for laughing funny.I've read a lot of Spark's books and this is probably my favorite (even if I didn't remember reading it!).
Almost unbearably creepy.
Driver's Seat abounds in a mordant wit. It doesn't admit much. The details revealed are rather baffling. That opacity should charge the narrative, maybe keep the reader off balance. Such remains inconclusive, the verdict is out. The fact that we know the ending should mitigate tension. It certainly doesn't. Muriel Spark delivers no fire in this novella, instead a most seductive smoke. There are whispers of Amis in this quest.There is something modern, something concerning the consumer at the core of this tale. Do we all die by choice?
And having read the novel now I only have more questions rather than answers.Most people, myself included, tend to read a writer's best known book and move on to the next great writer and their best work, and so on.
I did this with Spark and "Jean Brodie" but this writer has far more to offer than a girl's grammar school, complex relationships and secrets - "The Driver's Seat" proves that Spark is a formidable talent whose nightmarish novel is a must-read for people looking for a thrilling book that still has the power to shock more than 40 years since it was published.
A gorgeously dark and demented novella about a woman on holiday, searching for a man who is “her type.” Among her many strange behaviors, she carries a book whose gaudy cover matches her glaringly mismatched outfit, often holding it in front of her like a shield, like an identity badge. I myself suspect the book was titled The Driver’s Seat, by Muriel Spark.
and "Not really a presence," Lise says.
Everything she does - leading men on, ending up with things this guy's mother bought, planting her passport in a cab, looking for "her type," whom she will mystically know when she sees - they suddenly make sense if they've been invented by a murderous nutcase.
The last paragraph says, "The typewriter ticks out his unnerving statement," which seems to me like Spark is explaining the book to us.
There's this whole genre of men (view spoiler)[who murder women they've invented: who invent women who demand to be killed.

I have wanted to read Muriel Spark's The Driver's Seat for ages, and finally got my hands on a copy, which I began immediately.
As ever, Spark's writing is taut and unpredictable, both with regard to her characters and plot.
The Driver's Seat is a peculiar yet clever novella, which I found myself reading in one go.
I have decided not to write an extended review of this book, as previously planned, as I am loath to give anything away; it is far better coming to this novel blind, with no preconceived notions.
I wasn't really in the mood for this, but it was short and by the time I got to the end it had worked it horrible magic. A disturbing, nasty lil book, which felt oddly modern.
Scottish novelist, Muriel Spark wrote a brilliant and dark novella "The Driver's Seat." It will haunt you. It was nominated for Lost Man Booker Prize of 1970. Ms. Spark describes her book as a "whydunnit in a q sharp major" more than a "whodunnit." This is a story of a complicated and troubled woman with a history of problems. She starts to become even more unraveled while traveling to a foreign land for a vacation. Might be a perfect book to discuss in a reading club, as opinions will wildly vary about the book and main character's motives.
Lise is bored. She has worked in the same office for sixteen years and one day decides to transform herself, invents an imaginary life and sets off on a journey.Spark writes a dark and disturbing psychological portrait of a woman who is erratic, eccentric and frightening. It is uncomfortable reading and I am aware this is Spark's intention. It is also a strangely compelling novella, which lingers.Short, sharp and sinister!
Wrenchingly bleak and somehow triumphant all the same, and so exquisitely written that this shocking tale of willful self-destruction takes on a patina of a comedy of manners. It's a mix that won't be to everyone's taste but I loved it. So evidently did Muriel Spark--The Driver's Seat was Spark's favorite novel of hers.
