https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/859807.Answer_to_Job
Instead of a denouement on Mount Moriah, Job's trial culminates with Elihu's mediation on behalf of his friend.While Kierkegaard sucks the ethical marrow from his story through painstaking study, Jung blasts at the story of Job with his full arsenal of newfangled clinical terms, launching his little book into an atmosphere of conjecture that better befits his heady era than ours.
اگرچه كه به اندازه ساير آثار يونگ از اين كتاب لذت نبردم اما كتاب خوبي بود و ديدگاه جالبي داشت. در حقيقت يونگ به نحوي به تحليل شخصيت يهوه و دوگانگي وجودي وي در قالب همان نظريه سايه، پرداخته بود و تحليلي روانشناسانه از يك سري عقايد مذهبي خاص ارائه داده بود. بايد اعتراف كنم كه تحليل مكاشفات يوحنا چندان به دلم ننشست و به نظرم تحليل جامع و مانعي نبود اما بيان كننده ي بعدي بود كه به نظر كمتر كسي به آن توجه مي كند.
Job is the most beautifully written book in the bible, period. It's more prose than anything else. Jung's Answer to Job's cry of 'Why' is amazing. Jung believed in God, which is pretty amazing when considering the stance of most of his contemporaries. His answer to the ultimate question of suffering is worthy of anyone's time, believer or not.
this book challenges any christian to examine our somewhat naive concept of the shadow of god, and encourages us to reach past our all-too-often childish understanding of salvation.
Because of this knowledge Job holds on to his intention of “defending his ways to his face,” i.e., of making his point of view clear to him, since notwithstanding his wrath, Yahweh is also man’s advocate against himself when man puts forth his complaint.Given one is kind enough to entertain them, Jung’s trains of thought are quite the joyride.
"Защото както пълнотата е винаги несъвършена, така и съвършенството винаги е непълно и представлява едно крайно състояние, което е безнадеждно стерилно. Ex perfecto nihil fit."
This book uses the Story of Job in the Old Testament as the event after which man and God’s relationship was forever altered and required Jesus to become incarnate.This was a fascinating, but super dense read.
If Jesus did come forth because of man demanding it and Yahweh recognizing “his bads”, Jung sees that there is still something wrong.
This is some good old honest self-sacrifice within the immediate celestial family, where it is needed--a sending forth of its son with a radical new living philosophy born of God learning (more or less) from his defeat by Job.
His work is both the furthest departure from his great mentor (Freud himself), and at the same time completely saturated with Freudian Thought.
The last and by far most controversial work by the master's star pupil, this book is at times a breathless read and at others a walk through a swamp.
For all of his brilliant insight Dr. Jung was, in my opinion, limited at least to a small degree by his strict Christian rearing and frequent forays into the mysterious subject of Alchemy.Having said all this, I loved it.
Jung is never an easy read, and this book is by no means an exception.
(chuckle....smile....expel air) wow.....
In much of western religious history, there has been an attempt to readdress these imbalances in the deity; the moral protest against God’s justice in the Book of Job to Pope Pius XII’s 1950 doctrine of Mary’s Assumption articulate well the struggle between the two.Jung argues that we cannot tell whether God and the unconscious are two different entities.
They demonstrate the development of God’s personality from the jealous, tyrannical deity of the early books through the incarnation in the New Testament, back to the unintegrated Omni-destructive force described by John of Patmos.Throughout the Bible, Jung claims, both God and His people made many attempts to reform the God-Image.
I boken Answer to Job analyserer Jung menneskets psykologiske forhold til arketyper og gud som underbevisst fenomen.
Man ser til og med at Jung flere ganger har vansker med å skille mellom det underbevisste og gud ettersom begge to konstitueres av en fundamental antinomi som forutsetter muligheten til å handle seg til fullkommenhet overhodet.
Gud ville finne et troløst individ, dermed valgte han å bringe terror over den mest troende og gudfryktige av alle, kun siden gud stadig ville gjøre rede for menneskets iboende trang til dødelighet og hovmod - Job rettferdiggjorde guds veddemål med satan ved å forstå seg på nødvendighetens form i verden.
Once upon a time the all-knowing God made a bet with Satan about the faithful Job and whether he could stand all manner of persecution. A couple of thousand years later, Jung wrote about it and it was much more enlightening than the thoughts of the Pharisees and Saducees. Was this the turning point in the old school yin/yang love-you/kill-you God of great fear and trembling into the modern God of love? Or does the Book of Revelations prove that God is still very angry at you? Read this to find out.
This work puts the old testament biblical god under the psychiatrist's microscope.
Jung outlines a process of psychological evolution the biblical god progressed through starting with illustrating the suppressed shadow side of the manic old testament deity.
The important idea to specifically understand before reading these is there are common, recurring mythological motifs and characters in all world cultures which are loosely defined as "archetypes".
These archetypes can change over time and assume different forms in dreams, myths, and visions, so in this work the psychologist Carl Jung analyses one specific of these archetypal forces, examining scriptural writings to give the reader a better understanding of how it changed and morally evolved over time.
ღმერთის "არაცნობიერის" კვლევა - პატარა, ლამაზი ტრაგედია გამოვიდა.
Jung believes Christ is the titular Answer to Job, in that god wanted to become man, and still wants to, in order to comprehend the suffering he inflicted not on merely Job but all of humanity.
One particular quote I found interesting was that "myth is not fiction: it consists of facts that are continually repeated and can be observed over and over again" and another is "the fact that the life of christ is largely myth does nothing to disprove its factual truth-- quite the contrary."Finally, one bit that I found curious was "[I] emphatically state that visions and their accompanying phenomena cannot be uncritically evaluated as morbid." I don't know if this has changed since 1973, but I fail to see how literal visions could be anything but morbid, but hey, I'm not the famed psychologist here.
In contrast to the story of Eden, Jung does not feel that people in the book of Job are guilty of an "original sin" and that, instead, good and evil exist on a higher plane of duality, that mankind has innocently inherited.(editing back in here, after finishing the book)Actually...after finishing this book...it was not as scholarly as I expected...Imagine this, if you will: C.G. Jung is stuck in a motel room, his luggage got lost and the only thing he has to entertain himself with is that free bible in the night stand.
"Ante el tribunal de la naturaleza y del destino la inconsciencia no es una disculpa; al contrario, están reservados grandes castigos para la inconsciencia. Por ello toda naturaleza inconsciente tiene nostalgia de la luz de la conciencia, aunque, por otra parte, se resiste a ella."
In expressing the possibility of finding a helper within God while God was actively persecuting him, i.e. that the God of punishment was merely one of multiple personalities within the godhead, and that God himself lacked the self-awareness to come to terms with these unconscious impulses, Job unconsciously viewed the rear side of God, as Jung puts it.
The Satanic shadow is banished from Heaven, giving way to a self-aware God of love and forgiveness; but he continues to lurk "in the air", with the possibility of a revival.
I was afraid that the introduction notes were a sign of what was to come, and my fears were well established halfway through the book.From the best of what I understand, Jung psychoanalyzed God and Christianity, but with his own brand of psychoanalysis or analysis or whatever it was.
Either way, the discussion is doomed.The entire point of the Christian doctrine is that the will and mind of God stands aside from human comprehension.
So to try and understand God from a Christian standpoint is limiting.
To try and understand it from a place of psychoanalysis removes it from the subjective interpretation that is necessary for its logical progression and again nullifies it.
From a purely human viewpoint Carl trys to resolve and accept the dual nature of God. Light and Dark, Love and Justice, Creation and the death and destruction awaiting us in revelation.
How can God let that happen.To that I say this:Job is a story in the Bible, probalby written as a result of a dream that occured to a mystic.
His loving relationship to God. Relationship to God is all.What if Jesus did not come as expiation for our sins but to show each of us what it was to be fully human and explain the story of Job to us.
Crucial to the evolution of Yahweh (or the God-Concept in general), the story of Job challenges the omniscience and loving nature of God. In order to “complete” the divine drama and "compensate" for the wrong that Yahweh has caused Job - God becomes man in Jesus.From there, Jung looks into the book of Revelations.
The book of John is so focused on representing God as Love with no acknowledgement of God's Shadow, and so consequently John's unconscious is essentially bursting at the seams in order to compensate for the one-sidedness of the moral, religious consciousness.Jung also concludes with some critique on Protestantism, and offers his commentary on Catholicism's "Assumption"...The book is laced with much of Jung's own psychological theory, so a general knowledge of his work would help while reading...
It is also one of the few books there taken from a non-Hebrew tradition.In Job, a conventionally good and accomplished man has his faith tested by God and his assistant, Satan, working in concert to systematically destroy everything of value.
God, in this version, is the Whirlwind.Jung, naturally, liked Job because it fit readily into his own belief structure.
Second, god in his aspect as the king whom Satan, the "adversary", serves, acts as a kind of judge.
Third, the "helper" that Job seeks--what Christians came to figure as the paraclete or "comforter"--dynamically completes a God/Judge/Prosecutor/Defender quaternity which, in Jung's view, represents both an historical/cultural and individual/therapeutic process towards "wholeness".
A beautiful interpretation of Job in the Bible, hermenotique, structural and semiologicalپاسخ به ایوب، نگاه یونگ به داستان ایوب در عهد عتیق است، و آنچه میان او و خدا رفته است.
یونگ در انسان و سمبول هایش می گوید؛ چیزی که وجود نداشته باشد، نمی میرد.
اگر خدا نبود، نیچه مرگ او را اعلام نمی کرد.
با این همه یونگ تاکید می کند که اشتباه محض است اگر این اظهار نظر او به عنوان اعتقاد به "وجود خدا" و تایید مذهب قلمداد شود.
او وجود خدا را در تفکر انسان بررسی کرده و کاری به چنین پدیده ای در خارج از ذهن انسان نداشته.
The short answer is that God's answer to Job was "Jesus Christ". However, Jung takes 140 pages to give the long answer, which will lose or bewilder traditional Christians. If you are "Jung at heart", though, these ideas should not be too surprising: that the psyche is real, that God is reality itself, and that God was found to be incomplete by Job's inquiry, fueling God's desire to become man in the flesh. This is not easy reading, but then, I don't know of anyone else who has given the question this much thought.
Not an easy book to read, as Jung was overfond of technical terms such as "chthonic" and "quaternity." Still, after having encountered the Old Testament God in the Book of Job, I was greatly disturbed by His capriciousness and even amorality. Jung helped explain how the misbehavior of Yahweh led eventually to Christianity.
اصلا نتونستم با ایده ی اصلی نویسنده ارتباط برقرار کنم. و چون با مبنای اصلیش مخالف بودم، نتیجه گیری ها هم از نظرم بی اساس بود.
ჩემი არაცნობიერი უკიდურეს სტრესში იმყოფება აღფრთოვანებისგან და იუნგის ნაფიქრისგან!
He must know something of God's nature and of metaphysical processes if he is to understand himself…Jung's method of demonstrating these theses, which will probably not persuade either the Biblical scholar or contemporary psychologists but which should not offend the literary critic at all, is to treat the books of the Bible from Genesis to Revelation as a single continuous narrative, albeit composed at different historical moments by different sensibilities, that shows the development (or circular non-development) of God's personality from the jealous and dangerous deity of the early books through the attempt at reform and atonement running from the Hebrew Bible's wisdom literature through the Incarnation in the New Testament, back to the unintegrated omni-destructive force described by John of Patmos (whom Jung construes, wrongly I believe, as the John of the Gospels and Epistles).Throughout the Bible, Jung claims, both God and His people made many attempts to reform the God-image.
"Отговор на Йов" е най-особената книга на Юнг, която съм чел.
Стилът на писане е обичайният, труден за проследяване и подобни недообяснени отклонения създават трудности и фрустрация при четене.Като изключа това, книгата се занимава с фундаментална и за християнството, и за аналитичната психология тематика.
Тази книга, бих казал, може да се препоръча на експерти в сферата на антропологията, теологията, аналитичната психология и други подобни области, както и на хора с тесен интерес към християнството и неговата символика (и как тя влияе на душевния живот на вярващия, какво може да се крие в несъзнаваните измерения на християнската символика).
خیال میکردم این کتاب در مورد ایوب است، برای همين انتخابش کردم، اما همان طور که میشد از روی اسمش حدس زد، در مورد ماجراهای پس از ایوب است، یعنی تکوین یهوه در درام الهی.
پس از این آزمایشها یهوه دوست دارد به شکل ایوب (بشر) در آید، به بیانی ناخودآگاه تمایل به ظهور در خودآگاه دارد.
به علاوه، اگر این انقلاب فرهنگی (ظهور خدای مسیحی) نبود، یهوه با آن همه قساوت دیگر مشتری چندانی برای روان انسان نداشت و بیم آن میرفت که بشر یکسره ارتباط خود را با ناخودآگاهی قطع کند و به صورت جنون آمیزی تسلیم منطق و خودآگاهی شود.
