https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2168113.Nomads_of_the_North

I've always loved reading from an animal's POV and this book was amazing cause not only did I get to read from a dog's perspective, I also got to read from a bear's.
IT WAS AMAZING.Neewa is absolutely gorgeous.
I was really sad when Noosak, his mother, got shot by Challoner but at the same time - that's what the wild is like.
He was just such a gorgeous, awkward pup but when he got older and started fending for himself in the wild on his own during the Winter months (when Neewa was hibernating) I really adored him.
I have read a number of Mr. Curwood's books. In this effort he paints a picture so clearly that you feel that you are back to that time and place. Truely this is a great work that is on the level of Hemmingway. A treasure for those of you out there that never get tired of adventure and life.
Не сказка, не приукрашенная книга про животных, написанная от лица животных, как будто автор бродил вместе с ними. Дружба медвежонка и щенка. Пес, который попадает к плохому хозяину, потом в волчью стаю. У героев действительно сложная жизнь, встречаются и очень плохие люди, и хорошие. Автор заставляет переживать, все время держа в напряжении, потому что написано со знанием людей и животных. И никогда не возникает мысли, что это выдумка.
I am a sucker for novels like this - the adventures of mongrel pup and a grizzly cub who fall out of a canoe tied together and become life long friends. The dog, Miki, is fabulous. Tough, smart, strong. The adventures are wonderful. Several evil characters who get it in the end. Really fun.
A lovely children's classic that I think everyone should read ☺️
Neewa, a black bear cub, gets separated from his mother and ends up with a hunter and his young dog, Miki.
It feels less like a wannabe-Jack London book and more original, which I can appreciate.
He starts out interesting enough, but he kinda becomes generic and shoving him to the background for a big chuck of the book until some final few chapters isn't exactly great for his character development.I think this might be my favourite of the Curwood books I've read.
If you like stories about animals in the wilderness, kinda in the Jack London style, this is something that might be up your alley.
Beautiful. I am grateful to goodreads for introducing me to James Oliver Curwood. I am listening to the audiobooks which have been recorded by Librivox.org, they are free to stream online or download through audiobook apps,so far all have been very well read.
Reminded me of Disney's "True Life Adventures", and other Curwood's novels such as KAZAN, BAREE, or THE BEAR -- the main characters are a dog and a bear cub, and most of the novel follows their adventures.
Perfect for a Disney movie.
Possibly one of my favorite books. Must remember re-read!
great fun
