https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/611233.Thrush_Green
This is the sort of book in which _nothing happens_ except on a personal level -- people argue and then mend fences, gardens grow, seasons change, boys make friends, and occasionally there's a romance or twoThese books remind me of Angela Thirkell, except written by someone a generation younger & so much less painfully right-wing.
Miss Read is able to see beauty in a lot of things which would have made Thirkell miserable, like the cheap prizes available at the carnival, and she has quite a few working class characters who are treated as actual people rather than bowing-and-scraping scenery.
This is my first Miss Read novel - I don’t count Christmas at Thrush Green - and now I understand why so many of my friends are devotees of the series.
The storyline is a well-knit circle of beginnings and endings.
It’s also full of such beautiful descriptions of England in May. Read in January, it made me long for spring!
“The horse chestnut trees were beginning to break, their palmate leaves looking like tiny green hands bursting from sticky brown gloves.”“I had taken almost all her life to realize, consciously, how much the country sights and scents around her had contributed to her inner happiness and had provided zest and comfort in turn.”
The young doctor, Dr Lovell finds life just like he wants it at Thrush Green but will he be able to stay on?
The old doctor meanwhile, also recovering from an illness, wonders whether he can get back to work as he did before.
Mrs Curdle has her own problems too, with an illness, and worries about who will take over the fair next, for her grandson Ben, from whom she had hopes seems sullen and uninterested lately.
But what makes it different here is the village of Thrush Green, picturesque, beautiful, and leaving everyone with a feeling of peace―the reader not excepted.
Just this place called Thrush Green and the people who live there in the 1950s.
No major plot, no Peyton Place drama, absolutely no sex (there's barely chaste kissing), no cliffhangers between books.
You get to know the characters and follow them about their very ordinary lives.
Each book spans roughly a year.
Through it all is this charming village green around which life revolves.Sounds boring, right?
I ripped through Thrush Green and then went on to read the entire Fairacre series.
It was stupid how happy these books made me.Not everyone's definition of delight.
Well, at least much in earth-shattering events that is.I enjoy books that play out over the course of one day and the author captures this perfectly for the reader and the characters come to life very easily in ones mind.
I also loved the occasional sketchs to give the reader another vision of the inhabitants of Thrush Green.If you're looking to slow down a bit in life, to just sit back and spend a day in a bucolic and charming village, then this book may be perfect for you!
I've had a good day," said Mrs. Curdle, and blew out the light."Bookish Thoughts #29© 2012, Staci of Life in the Thumb.
One of the many reasons I love Miss Read is the fact that her books contain people of all ages, and she treats them all with amused affection.
Here we have the story of young Molly and Ben, the gypsy boy who only comes to Thrush Green one day out of every year, when the traveling fair his grandmother presides over comes to town.
None of this is forced, as all these people naturally converge on tiny Thrush Green, interacting and influencing each other, sometimes without recognizing it.
Miss Read's books are slow and sweet and full of humanity.
Then we see it from the perspective of the aging fair owner, the town physician, a pair of young lovers, a cantankerous spinster, and a lonely girl.
Even the way she writes about the lovers is fresh and light (none of the sweaty palms and goose bumps of most romantic Christian fiction.)Though people drink, smoke and swear on occasion, this is an utterly charming community that you will learn to love.
Many of the characters face their trials bravely and cheerfully, with an eye to serving others, that I find absolutely refreshing in comparison to the self-absorbed characters in much modern fiction.

Thank you Steena, for a wonderful recommendation! I am in love with Miss Read's books! They are so friendly and homey, that you feel like you really know Dr. Bailey, Mrs. Curdell, Molley Piggot, and Paul's Aunt Ruth. Each beloved character is wound into the story lovingly, and not thrown in hastily, like some books do, giving you a vague idea of what they are supposed to be-but each one has they're very own personality, and the illustrations even fit your idea of what they look like!
#MissReadalong - January 2018
My friend Hope prompted me to read through the Thrush Green series in order.
My plan is to go slow and savor the Cotswold atmosphere in between weightier reads which require more effort.I'd put Miss Read in between Barbara Pym and Jan Karon as authors of character-driven book of manners.
Many English village books have a couple of quirky spinsters who share a nonsexual domestic partnership.
Ella and Dimity are Thrush Green's spinsters.
I read the reference the day my friend told me how much she loves Clarks ("Shoemakers since 1825") shoes.
This is the first book in Miss Read's Thrush Green series and it is an absolute delight to read.
The townspeople are filled with excitement at the thought of the once a year event.
The day follows everyone from the excited little boy to the aging doctor.
You wouldn't think one could fill an entire book with the happenings of one day and still include so many rich details about so many characters.
The characters themselves are so diverse and wonderful.
These cozy reads are ones I can see myself visiting over and over through the years.
E. Stevenson's Miss Buncle series.

This book confirms the fact that I’m living my life to the purpose of becoming an elderly woman living in a countryside cottage, naming kittens after appropriate townspeople, and dishing wisdom to bewildered young people.
Along the lines of "Oh dear, Gertie, old girl, the postman has brought Mrs. Clumberstone's letter to our post box again.
Whatever should we do, Gertie old girl?
I imagined timid ladies, gently sipping tea, moving so delicately as not to upset the doily coasters on precious antique end tables.
It is just that her novel is impossibly well potted, so that all the characters have a growth spurt within the course of a single May First day.
A cozy appeal, if you will.
Some books I know I enjoyed reading, but have to struggle to come up with what the story was about or who the characters were, especially at a gap of more than ten years.
The story not only features the more educated upper middle class one would expect - the families of the doctors and businessmen and architects - and of course the always struggling school teachers (only hinted at in this book of the series), but the domestic help who did the cleaning and laundry, tended children and worked at the pub, and the carnival workers - travelers or gypsies.
Maybe only 3.5* really but it fit my mood at the moment.
May 1 is dawning in the sleepy Cotswolds village of Thrush Green and that means the fair is coming.
Paul's aunt Ruth has been staying with him while recovering from a broken engagement must discover where her future lies while old Doctor Bailey and Mrs. Curdle, the proud gypsy woman who runs the fair, must do the same.
I found the story really worked that way because I developed a friendship with a set of characters and just had to know what would happen next.
Though all the action takes place in one day, it works well for the story.
In Thrush Green by Miss Read, it's the first of May and time for the annual traveling fair to set up in the small village.
This charming book meanders through the life of a large portion of the village on this day.
Some find peace as decisions are reached, and others find nothing by trouble.
Interwoven together this beautifully descriptive stroll through a day in the life of a small village is a peaceful way to pass the time.
The book itself I thought I'd best summed up through its own words."She...
suddenly realized what riches were gathered there together in one lovely drop of time."4 stars

I especially adore six-year-old Paul, with his imagination and empathy (he actually reminds me of Paul in the “Anne of Green Gables” series).At this very minute, thought young Paul, there were people there laughing and playing—swinging, perhaps, as he was, but on bright tropical trees that grew by seas as blue as the swing boat that lay idle beside his own.
And now, as he swung on Thrush Green, and over the sea those brown gay people played under their flowered trees, among the watery weeds of his much-loved river the minnows would be wavering in shoals, all headed upstream, their eyes gleaming like jewels.
Even so mundane an act as placing a bunch of daffodils in a glass jug is elevated to sheer poetry, when she describes the soft green beauty of the stalks and leaves seen through the glass, with a myriad tiny air bubbles studding their length like crystal beads.In this backdrop are the finely delineated characters, who live in the little village, and around whose lives the story is woven.
Just a day, albeit a special one, in the lives of this little community, and the changes it brings about, transforming lives, changing pain into joy, bringing comfort to some and a comeuppance to others.
I was very excited to join an Instagram readalong of Miss Read's Thrush Green series this year. But it was a wobbly start. I read just one Miss Read last summer and loved it; this one not so much. I almost gave it up, it took me well over 100 pages to really get into the characters and storyline. But it ended well and I will continue. My hope is the series will get better and better!
This is the coziest sort of novel. It is hard to imagine a more charming book set in gentler times. Be prepared for lots of English gardens and descriptions of the countryside of a small village in the Cotswolds. There is a romance or two, with chaste kisses and of course no social issues. It takes place on one day--May 1 when all the flowers bloom. The illustrations are perfect.
Charming. Some of the descriptions of spring and nature are remeniscent of L.M. Montgomery. Really, take Avonlea and transplant it into rural 1950s England and there you are. A little more poignant and rough, perhaps, in dealing with poverty and other themes, but still gently told with plenty of smiles and tuggings of the heartstrings.
My first book by Miss Read. What a delightfully, idyllic, slow-paced snapshot of quaint English village life. I now have another fictional place that I want to visit. This is definitely my kind of book!
Introducing Thrush Green, a village in the Cotswolds. As is evident, once I reread this book, I desired to reread the others as soon as possible. Only the rising Kindle prices kept me from buying the whole Miss Read oeuvre immediately! If you have a good library to hand, you may be able to get them there, or in a used bookstore. I'd recommend you do.
Pleasant small town village life when the fair comes to town.Here's a quote to think about:"Houses made Mrs. Curdle ill at ease.
There was so much space.
So many bare places on the wall.
So far to walk.
It seemed to the old lady that there was nothing homelike about such a place.
The sight of so much floor to sweep and walls to clean appalled her and the lofty ceiling made her feel lost and unsafe.
Might as well live in a church thought Mrs. Curdle to herself as she picked her way gingerly over the unaccustomed carpet.
This novel is utterly delightful.
Set in a bucolic English village in the mid-twentieth century, Thrush Green contains a set of characters whose lives deliciously entwine for one special day in May when a traveling fair stops for a night.
Eager bright-eyed schoolchildren, young couples in love, cheaters, drunks, and aged folk coming to terms with death are all present and accounted for.
It's an idealized view of life, yet the realities of the world are not forgotten by Miss Read.
I spent much of the book wishing that I could find a Thrush Green of my own to settle down in for life.
I miss Fairacre.*sobs quietly to self*I don't know. I just barely enjoyed this. I was a bit distracted while reading, and I just really, really miss the dry humour of Miss Read's voice. (Miss Read as in the character, not the authoress.) But I shall forge ahead! Though I may just end of re-reading the Fairacre books.
