https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/48484.Blindsight
what is the purpose of our individuality, what is the need for our sense of self, what use is Human Connection, why are we even equipped with Empathy?
how would a highly developed species that has somehow evolved without empathy or individuality react to a species like ours - one that is contantly talking to itself, connecting, empathizing, exploring, throwing itself and its messages out into the void, to seek, to find, to understand, to know?exploring all of those questions is the purpose of Peter Watts' superb Blindsight.
How do you take a book whose central premise seems to be that the development of self-awareness in human evolution was a wrong turn that wasn't meant to happen at all?
He is a uniquely appropriate narrator for this tale as his very mode of existence showcases Watts' entire argument in microcosm; and interestingly his entire development as a character is the reverse of the development of the story and even of the universe itself.
I will say very little about "Rorschach", the alien entity with whom humanity attempts to communicate in this tale of first contact, except to say that the Lovecraftian enigma of its seeming indifference to human existence is truly chilling in its implications.
Siri is part of that team as a professional observer.It's a complicated story, and while Watts does eventually provide many of the explanations (details on Heaven, details on vampires), it a faceted kind of story; you have to hold all these images in your mind and hope that they'll coalesce at some point.
In a way, they are mini-essays that are the foundation of the book, including 'Sleight of Mind' (hacking the brain), 'Are We There Yet' (the space travel insight), alien anatomy and physiology, and 'Sentience/Intelligence,' all of which are heavily footnoted, usually with articles or journals.
👽3.5/5👽**So this review will be extremely short**  “He wasn't just grasping at the limb, I realized as I joined them. He was tugging at it. He was trying to pull it off.Something laughed hysterically, right inside my helmet.”   Okay so I have decided hardcore sci-fi isn't my thing, I get confused with all the descriptions and literally had to google half the words in this book. The writing was a little tedious, 100 pages in and I still didn't have a clue what was going on and nearly put down as
Okay so I have decided hardcore sci-fi isn't my thing, I get confused with all the descriptions and literally had to google half the words in this book.
However this book turned amazing at the half way point & I literally couldn't put it down, it was fascinating, creepy, warped, wonderful & extremely different.
When people talk about horror in sci-fi, I imagine something pretty cheesy.
This book had no cheese what so ever and was actually pretty creepy.
O_oSo, one the one hand, I can see how certain types of readers would think this book is brilliant and love it.
On that level, I think this book was great.
So, my expectations for what this book actually was definitely hurt my enjoyment, but having no expectations at all wasn't any better because I was bored and confused and really struggling with understanding the narrative and structure and what was actually being relayed.
But, you know, as I type this, I kinda think that I'm actually starting to appreciate it a little more because I'm realizing that all of what I just said about the confusion really just puts the reader that much more into the story directly.
You know you're in for trouble when the dedication of the book says:"If we're not in pain, we're not alive."One of the quotes before the novel starts is:"you will die like a dog for no good reason"And the quote that starts the first chapter is one by Ted Bundy!But still, it's a sci-fi book about consciousness...how could I not love it?-----------------------------------------I've always loved Science Fiction, and not just because books about the future are inherently cool.
Most of the action takes place in a spaceship, and you never get a clear idea of how it's set up, plus there are all these sort of virtual-reality things going on at the same time, and the vampire guy tends to hide out in his room and you don't really know where that is, and I think there are supposed to be some kind of tents that the people live in?
And because I read this book and feel that the logic is unassailable, I still happen to think this novel makes me feel like it's a wonder to be alive.
Notice, of course, that this is the inverse of a depressive reasoning, and this is intentional, because this novel makes me feel like it's a wonder to be alive.If I were a computer, I might call this a halting state.
BR with Pizza, spaghetti, mandolino, Luciano Pavarotti and you can't even sing who happens to be a way quicker reader than ole Twerk.I learned an awful lot of new words while going through this book, mostly because I found myself being forced to in order to even follow its most basic level of dialogue.
I do now, but that's because I googled that shit along with heaps of funny words that I have now forgotten.
In the really technical sections of the story it was a challenge, at times, to even follow the plot.
It works, but it's likely going to make you work a bit as well.Three stars.
If you're into stuff like this, you can read the full review.Epiphenomenal Consciousness: “Blindsight” by Peter Watts“I am the bridge between the bleeding edge and the dead center.
I am the curtain.” In “Blindsight” by Peter Watts What if: There is only one consciousness that we all share?
(Perhaps we tune into consciousness like a radio tunes into a station).
"Consciousness" is body-mind.
Body-mind is sensate consciousness, and is called therefore "mortal self in time" or "ego-nature".
It is particularistic and therefore associated with "point-of-view" or perspectivising consciousness, like a searchlight or the beam of a flashlight stuck in one direction.
El resultado: acababan de hacernos una foto.
Era una prueba de la existencia de vida extraterrestre, pero ¿hostil o pacífica?
A book as monolithic and labyrinthine as the alien artifact at the heart of it.
A grim yet psychedelic book which probably earns Watts place as the new James W.
Disturbingly, as hallucinatory as most sections of this book are, Watts seemed to have scientific rational for most of it.
A future as weird and baroque as those pictured by Greg Egan and Charles Stross, scientifically plausible vampires (a branch of lost evolution), people turning to stone, a person with multiple personalities call The Gang of Four, truly alien aliens, and bleak a view of the universe as Lovecraft or Alastair Reynolds.
I've had a brief note up here for a while about this book that pretty much defines why I don't think it's well written.
But it never fully goes away, and the fact that the setup and back story are so unreadable - and yet so important - is a pretty huge problem.
But most importantly, he did science fiction with aliens and he did it right.
The aliens may not make it rise above other books in terms of the writing, but in a science fiction contest, I believe they do.
I enjoyed this book because of the wide range of interesting concepts that Peter Watts introduces in the story.
The aspect of blindsight--the ability to sense one's environment without conscious awareness--is central to the story.
Sometimes the human characters are subject to blindsight, but more importantly, the aliens they investigate act completely in blindsight.
The aliens have no conscious awareness--they lack a brain--but they act as if they do.
One of the women on board is the warrior, and is also a pacifist.It is obvious that the author is a scientist.
There are plenty of hard SF books that throw dozens of complex scientific and philosophic ideas at you, trying to show how smart the author is, but I haven’t encountered many SF books in which the characters, backstory and first contact are all different iterations of the same central argument: human sentience is a fluke of evolution that is not indispensable for survival, and could be a hindrance in the grand scheme of things, i.e. humanity could be a lone aberration in a cold and unsympathetic universe.
It’s a fascinating and scary concept, and it gets plenty of book time.Going back to the central plot, things get interesting when the Theseus crew actually encounters a giant alien spacecraft near the comet in question and investigate it.
Was there ever a book with a more fitting title?
In order to expand my reading, I've been making an effort to put more hard scifi into my rotation, to get out of the "fluff rut" I've been in, riding books that are easy to consume but ultimately unsatisfactory.
Every step of the journey is a battle for discovery, both of the aliens and of the crew members themselves.
In delving the foreign, the narrator dissects what it means to be human.The crew, barely human themselves through genetic modifications, cybernetic implants and voluntary dissociative identity disorder are tasked with deciding if these new neighbors are friend or foe, while trying to determine the same about each other.Bonus points for some truly unsettling and scary moments, which makes up for the negative hit for throwing in a vampire captain.
he really nailed it) and repeat the sentiment that you know you are in a great deal of trouble when one of the first quotes is Ernest Hemingway informing you that "you will die like a dog for no good reason", or the preceeding heart warming dedication to Lisa, stating "if we're not in pain, we're not alive".
That way, we can understand ourselves and look at each other in a way we perhaps hadn't thought of.
We often take for granted the real majesty of our existence and conciousness and think there just wouldn't "be" another way to "be", right?
It's why I read science fiction.
An utterly fascinating read; well-done in both its science and its style.
At one moment near the end, I glanced up from the page and said aloud: He’s saying that consciousness and self-awareness are metabolically expensive and that if we’re lucky, we’ll grow out of it.
I had several jaw-dropping moments.
Like I said, it’s a little bit “harder” of a flavor of scifi than I usually get into but this novel just held my attention totally rapt; I was utterly engrossed.
And I highly recommend it.---Second read: Still love it.
There they are reminded of the eminent hackability of the human brain, what a fragile machine it really is, and that’s just the start.It’s hard, because I want everyone to read this book, though I know the majority of people won’t get past the first fifty pages.
The science isn’t background here, it’s not ambiance, and the unprepared reader would probably be very puzzled by an obscure and strangely technical alien encounter book.
Watts called this book a “thought experiment.” It’s about intelligence existing in the absence of sentience, of that conscious I first person narrator.
A real clever and thought provoking read.
Deals with a tonne od subjects, consciousness, identity, philosophy, gender, death way too many topics to list.
I loved the heavy science element and the characters.
Its a first contact novel with a twist.
I think the only negative for me, is that it occasionally got lost in its own cleverness which made some of the plot a little scattered or uneven to follow.
Not one yo usually be obsessed with heavy scifi novels, but this is one the better ones i read out there.
Theres one section about ATP at a molecular level and it was very clever/cool.
In this case I can’t, specifically, except maybe that I heard about Peter Watts or Blindsight somewhere, maybe io9, and it seemed like something I could read.
Nevertheless, Watts seems intent on honestly interrogating how humans might investigate an alien object lurking at the edges of the solar system.In many ways this book reminds me of an SF horror movie in the same vein as Alien or perhaps Cube.
I’m intrigued by the ideas that Watts puts forward, and for that reason I still liked the book despite finding it difficult to get through.
It's not the author's fault that I'm too dumb to appreciate this in its full five star entirety.
Some of that was also far over my head until John Carpenter turned it into THE THING and then my dumb ass was like 'oh yeah, that's terrifying.' If you are a fan of this genre combo you should at least give this a shot.
If the book turns out to be smarter than you are, I promise I will only mock you a little.
If you were smarter than the book, I don't wanna hear it.
The book is a hard science fiction with a lot of ideas, maybe too much for some people that has no special interest in one or two of the science that mentioned in this book.
It sure gave me some things to check in internet, like blindsight (it is a real life phenomena), and other science stuff appeared in this book.
I felt like read a novel that will have a direct sequel/continuation.
I was ready to give this book a five star, then when the (supposedly) climax part hit me, I changed my mind and rated this book a four star.
Why do putatively brilliant scientists insist on explaining simple shit to one another?
Their sole purpose appears to be strolling out at key intervals of the story and expounding on pop science.
Similar bleeding edge opinions on consciousness, neurology, and linguistics may all sound recondite but are really pretty quotidian even today, a century before the novel takes place.
One of the most hardcore sci-fi novels, Blindsight manages to be sometimes brilliant and often dull.
It does so by telling the story from the perspective of a high-functioning sociopath, who is the best and worst of narrators.
Not so lost in the ludicrous amounts of science jargon as I was confused by the "who/what is this?" Though the author sacrifices story and pacing at every convenience to flex his brain and show off all the cutting edge science theory he reviewed to prepare for writing this, my main bitch is simply not being able to follow even basic conversations held between characters.
Every character/space ship/astral body in this book has a name, and possibly an additional nickname.
I'm glad that the cover of this book has a picture of what the main space ship looks like, otherwise I would have never known how the main setting was laid out.
The only problem is that I completely disagree with the main premise of the book, which turns out to be that sentience is in fact a *problem* rather than Our Specialness.
It's a cool twist to the usual first contact with alien life scenario, but unfortunately it makes no sense to me.
Maybe when we get into space, the very fact that we know we exist will be the death of us.
If the other option is life without awareness, I don't care that it makes me less likely to survive a space battle.
This was a very difficult book for me due to the prose style.
In all fairness this probably my own failure and not the author's, his prose style just does not resonate with me.That said this book is generally critically well received and there are many ingenious concepts in this book which feature a truly inscrutable alien, several highly modified human characters and a scientifically convincing vampire.
If you find the synopsis of this book (not part of this review!) interesting there is no reason not to give it a try it as it is available as a free e-book here.
I really really tried with this book, but it was always a book that required that I slog through, trying to find snippets of enjoyment.
I wanted to like this book a great deal more than I did, but I ended up stubbing my toe on the distance between the author and his readers, the lack of exploration on the themes I did find interesting, and something that happened near the end that both baffled and upset me.Note: The rest of this review has been withheld due to the changes in Goodreads policy and enforcement.
You can read why I came to this decision here.In the meantime, you can read the entire review at Smorgasbook
RTC
