https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/259086.Three_Treatises
But. After saying that, if you read only one book in your entire life by Martin Luther, make it The Freedom of a Christian.In To The Christian Nobility of the German Nation, Luther breaks down the "three walls" protecting the Roman Catholic church from criticism, actual dialogue, and reform.
But it is a good book frequently read, no matter how small it is, that makes a man learned in the Scriptures and godly.
It is a GREAT book and should be required reading!!!My favorite quotes:I have neither the power nor the will to deny the Word of God.
I enjoyed these key Reformation treatises from Luther and was most impressed with his treatment of the sacraments. While not surprised by his rhetoric (I knew his reputation) there were still some moments of blushing when he was describing the excesses and wickedness of the Roman church and the pope.
Excellent. Luther's foundational writings, and the obvious place to start in any study of the German Reformer.
Rating based solely on the Third Treatise: “Freedom of the Christian”In his defense of the doctrine “faith alone,” Luther demonstrates a high view of God and a low view of man in his soteriology.
Luther asserts that the saved man is given a spiritual liberty, free of all man-made authority, including the old law (which reveal sin) and are instead set free through faith in Christ Jesus.
Loving God, loving neighbor become reactionary to the saving power from sin that Jesus brings to all who repent and believe in Him. Read.
Fascinating reading, especially to see the development of his thought and the relationship of his theology to the German nation and the Papacy. A Treatise on Christian Liberty (1520) is a short, but full discussion of grace and law/works.
Important series of early treatises by Luther in 1520.
Luther is lively.
This made me want to convert from Protestantism, even though I already had. If I hadn't already then I would have wanted to as soon as I finished this book!
Great snapshot of Luther's early thought.
This book was a requirement for my Reformation History class.I enjoyed the book. Luther writes with an easy, readable style, understandable to even a casual reader. This contrasts what one might expect from the man most identified with the Reformation. In fact, through a reading of these treatises one comes away with an image of a man who with a bit of humor, isn't afraid to tell it like it is and let you have it if you're in the wrong.I enjoyed the book and learned a lot from it while I was at it.
Thank God for Luther. In the first two treatises, he kicks all the right teeth in. The last treatise (which includes a kind letter to the pope) proves that he isn't just a jerk and is as good a presentation of the gospel as any. In fact, it shows that Luther wasn't primarily a negative whiner. He had the positive freedoms of Christians in mind while he brawled, and by golly, he knew how to brawl.
In 1520 Martin Luther wrote three treatises that were foundational to what he believed. The treatises were "To The Christian Nobility of the German Nation", "The Babylonian Captivity of the Church", and "The Freedom Of A Christian". All three of them carry a huge amount of historical significance, while at the same time being very readable and at times very stirring.
Martin Luther's Three Treaties was a Seminary assignment that I totally Loved Just when you think you know Dr Martin Luther, you pick up this book and his Treaties on Good Works and find he is not the Luther you heard about The!
Martin Luther was a very freaky dude- really furious, anti-Semitic, anti-papal. This book represents him in all his strangeness and gave me interesting insights into the Protestant Reformation I wouldn't have gotten otherwise. It's also an lucid easy read.
Martin Luther's logic collapses on itself - he goes from assumption A to assumption X with nothing in between.
Grandma Weitzel would not approve.
Luther at his best. Start with these 3 to understand his theology. 2 Kingdoms, sola fide, and universal priesthood. Bringing the rock.
A compelling realization of what early Christians really did believe.
Read this ages ago for Lordship, I think. Just re-read "The Freedom of a Christian as part of my research"--what a fantastic little book!
Great man. Great theology, long & drawn out feel to the read.
Harsh, contextually confusing but passionate and awesome.
A perfect way to get in Luther's head. The three treatises include An Open Letter to the Christian Nobility, The Babylonian Captivity of the Church, and The Freedom of a Christian.
Luther raises many valid points against the corrupt Roman Catholic church of the time.
