https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/54812.Streets_of_Laredo
‘I’ve always heard he was the greatest Ranger of all.’ ‘Yes, he had exceptional determination,’ Goodnight told him…”-	Larry McMurtry, Streets of Laredo How do you follow up Lonesome Dove, one of the greatest novels ever written?
The toughest part of Streets of Laredo is overcoming the brutally abrupt way in which McMurtry dispenses with Lonesome Dove.
Unlike Lonesome Dove, Streets of Laredo features a number of real-life figures, and McMurtry absolutely nails their characterizations.
More than Lonesome Dove, more than most novels, in fact, Streets of Laredo has a powerful thematic consistency.
This is on my short list of books that I have read more than once.
In fact I think I've read it 2 1/2 times.
A few years ago I picked it up one day, opened it somewhere in the middle (maybe I was looking for a particular passage), started reading, and couldn't put it down for a couple of days until I finished it (for the third time).
I think he's a fabulous writer, the greatest I've read for evoking a feeling (maybe a little romanticized) for the Old West.
I'd guess I'm quite likely to read this book again some day.
As much as I enjoyed Lonesome Dove, that's how much I disliked Streets of Laredo.
Larry McMurtry spent much of the earlier book demolishing the squeaky-clean John Wayne image of the Old West by showing it as realm of rape, sexual slavery, meaningless violence and random death, but he also showed the grandeur and beauty that drew men like Augustus McCrae.
Gus is sorely missed in this novel, in which McMurtry seems perversely committed to focusing on the least interesting characters and reworking themes in the least interesting ways.
But for much of its excessive length, Streets of Laredo reads like less of a sequel than a kiss-off -- a backhanded rejoinder to anyone who loved Lonesome Dove.
This is the sequel to Lonesome Dove and it's almost as good.
The only thing that really didn't work for me was that he didn't seem to have a firm fix on what was motivating Joey Garza.I found myself taking a meandering, slow journey through this book instead of rushing to finish it.
His writing is very good and his characters are absolutely brilliant, with the aforementioned exception.
In particular, McMurtry knows how to write women.
You see so much these days about people wanting strong female characters, well I say that I want more than strong, I want a world full of Lorenas, Marias, and Teresas.
I loved this book.
Unlike most sequels, this book does not pick up where the last one left off.
It is fully able to stand on it's own which I find to be an amazing feat.
I loved Lonesome Dove, but felt that the novel was complete and was ready to start a new adventure.
Would I have liked to see a further continuation of Newt, Dish and even Clara?
Sure, but I was so quickly wrapped up in the new characters and new setting that I was more than willing to go on the hunt for Joey Garza, Mox Mox and a myriad of new characters that only Larry McMurtry could have given voice to, in a land where the cowboy is nearing extinction.
You wouldn't think it, but chasing bandits is not as exciting as driving cattle, but if you are a fan of Lonesome Dove you'll want to read the sequel and find out what became of the Hat Creek boys, and of course, Lorie and Clara.
There is also a lot of talk about railroads, businessmen, and the lack of Indians which gives this novel a fitting sad and 'I wish it was still the Wild West' sort of tone.
However, this novel kicks its heels up at the end and has you racing for the last page, breathless.
I plan on adding more words, and maybe pictures, to the review soon.But before I leave for now, a few words on why I reread the book for maybe the third and a halfth (??) time.My wife and I flew away to West Texas (El Paso) on Nov. 6, and flew home on the 16th.
In between we spent a couple days in El Paso, the rest of the time on a Road Scholar hiking trip to the Davis Mountains and Big Bend National Park.
Setting a personal record, I took only one book with me on the trip.
I love McMurtry’s super-understated style and the characters and story were consistently great.I always try to avoid any kind of spoiler action in my reviews but it’s kind of hard to when you’re talking about this book so for those who haven’t read/seen Lonesome Dove should probably just X out at this point.
Call is gruffly likable as always and everyone loves Pea Eye. It’s probably arguable but I’d say the book does end on a happy note with some real change and redemption possible for Call’s character.
I wanted to love this. Lonesome Dove is one of my all time favorite books. But this left me almost wishing I didn't read it. It is all sadness and violence and none even a hint of humor as was in the first. I still enjoyed it, but rushed through it so I could be done.
If you are interested in this review, the question foremost in your mind is whether or not this is as good as Lonesome Dove. The answer is: very nearly.
This is doubly true of Streets of Laredo, the fourth and final installment of the Lonesome Dove series: not just because it’s a low-key sequel to the greatest Western novel of all time – an examination of Woodrow Call’s twilight years after the death of his life partner – but also because of what happens to Call himself at the end of the novel.After Lonesome Dove I went and read Dead Man’s Walk and Comanche Moon, which are chronologically the first two books in the series.
But as a conclusion to the Lonesome Dove series, to the saga of Gus and Call’s lives, and those of the people around them, it’s brilliant.
Unlike Lonesome Dove, which focuses solely on the white experiences of the west, Streets of Laredo examines all perspectives: Mexican, Native American, men, women, children - it's all here.
I found this passage particularly moving:But Ben Lily was one of the old ones of the West.
Ben Lily and Goodnight and Roy Bean and, he supposed, himself - for he, too, had become one of the old ones of the West - were just echoes of what had been.
Also, I thought everyone was going to die by the end of this book, which didn't quite happen, but there was a lot of violence.I've been thinking about this a lot since I finished reading it and it's hard to pinpoint why it's left me so unsettled.
I think that the absence of Gus really made Streets of Laredo lack the humorous quality in the previous books.
Streets of Laredo (Lonesome Dove #4), Larry McMurtry
Second, the book seems kind of empty without Gus and I missed his endearingly funny and carefree attitude and the way he played off of Call's crustiness.
Finally, since this book focuses on catching the bad guys it loses some of the epic sense of the first book, in which the mission is more open-ended and adventuresome.
I guess that's an extra sense you just had to have in those dangerous times.
In the final analysis, this is a good summer book but I won't be adding it to my list of favorites.
Page after page you were introduced to colorful characters that you loved, felt sorry for, wanted to be like them, or could relate with; others you hated.
What moved me was the way he presented how Pea Eye felt toward his wife, family, and what he had as a man and all that he went through toward the end of the book.
I will comment that Streets of Laredo presented many social dilemmas that Lonesome Dove did not; family values, parenting, care for the elderly and disabled, and the selfish sexist desire men have for women and the abuse that follows.
To this reader Streets of Laredo rightly compliments Lonesome Dove and together they stand as exceptional novels.
McMurtry ties up numerous loose ends left from Lonesome Dove and continues other story arcs.
I found it as satisfying as its predecessor.There is a lot here about man's inhumanity to women: Laurie remembers cruelties she suffered as a whore in Lonesome Dove and is sexually harassed (but she gives better than she gets); Joey Garza's mother Maria is endlessly physically abused by all the men in her life, and sexually harassed; another woman is saddened by all the sorrow Maria has known and wishes she could have talked with her; a woman reflects that a pretty blind girl will be spared knowing about men's leers.
I enjoyed this book more than Dead Man's Walk and just a little less than Lonesome Dove.
Also, reading the reviews of this book some people are just crazy, and their seething disappointment over what happened to their favorite characters from Lonesome Dove annoys me.
And it's about the evil that lurks within the hearts of men.This book starts slow, taking its time, setting the stage for the later action and events so that when they happen it is more powerful and alarming.
This book had similar complexity and emotion of Lonesome Dove that was a little lacking in Dead Man's Walk, but it's also a darker and more frightening tale.
I knew it was the last book but I didn't want to end the series there, so will read Dead Man's Walk last because it is the beginning of Woodrow and Gus. Of course, McMurtry is the best at putting life in prespective.
What has struck me through the series is that not much, if anything, has changed through time.
McMurtry's view of life, at least as told in these stories, is much like my own; cynical, but real.
Now I'm looking forward to Dead Man's Walk.
I want it to end where it began.
The plot isn't bad.
The characters aren't bad.
The book isn't bad, in itself.
But all the horrors, all the sad sadness just isn't balanced without the humor.
*****Spoiler alert*****Also why oh why did McMurtry just abandon characters and plot between books?
Why kill off Newt when we aren't watching, and shut down the ranch for no real reason before we could see what it's like, and why in heavens marry Lorena and Pea Eye without showing us how that happens?
I was wishing the whole book through that I could have read that other book that disappeared before he got to this one.
I don't even know whether to read the other, now.
Some misguided folks have suggested that you should read Lonesome Dove first and not read the series in its own chronological order.In fact I've been told that reading the books in order is like watching Star Wars in order; painful and ruins the good in the series.I'm here to tell you that Larry McMurtry is no George Lucas.There are some continuity errors, but the prequels and sequels in no way detract from the story.I devoured them, one after the other, all terribly good.Like westerns? you'll like these.Like happy endings and loose ends tied up? Well, sort of.
Im so sad that Ive just finished this awesome book. I read many review on it that claimed this book lacked the spirit of the first one and that it was a little disappointing. I strongly disagree with that. Its a logical continuation of the first one, where we get to know what happened to our favorite characters. Looking forward to reading the third book)Long live Captain Call !!
I´m so sad that I´ve just finished this awesome book. I read many review on it that claimed this book lacked the spirit of the first one and that it was a little disappointing. I strongly disagree with that. It´s a logical continuation of the first one, where we get to know what happened to our favorite characters. Looking forward to reading the third book)Long live Captain Call !!
While not nearly as good as LONESOME DOVE (without Gus, how could it be?), STREETS OF LAREDO is nevertheless a great conclusion to the series.
Woodrow Call , the main character ended up sad and lonely in the book
The book opens many years after the events told in Lonesome Dove and when we meet up with Captain Call he is an aged character, someone better suited to spending his days in a rocker whittling away at pieces of wood, but Call doesn't pay much attention to his growing old and has long as he can still do what he sets his mind to he doesn't really think about the changes age brings to his once strong body.'When she looked out the door of the rooming house and saw Captain Call coming, she had been shocked at how decrepit he looked.
Streets of Laredo takes place years after the Hat Creek Outfit establishes a cattle ranch in Montana, the collective dream of Call and Gus and the men who work and tag along with the pair of close friends.
All I could think about while reading Streets of Laredo was, "At least there's Lonesome Dove." Maybe I'll try reading two of the other novels with Call and Gus in their younger years: Dead Man's Walk and Comanche Moon.
Still a very enjoyable continuation of this epic saga, but i have one minor criticism, and it is minor.
The author, Larry McMurtry disposes of at least two of the major characters from LD in a very, i think, perfunctory way in the first chapter.
The one character I'm thinking of featured in nearly every page of LD and yet was eliminated in Laredo in what can only be characterized as dismissive.
Therefore i would treat this quartet as a continuous story, beginning with 'Dead Man's Walk', when McCrae and Call are young men through to 'Streets of Laredo' when Call is in his late sixties/early seventies.
Lonesome Dove ranks at the top of my list of favorite novels.
Streets of Laredo follows Lonesome Dove sequentially, telling the story of Woodrow Call as a 70 year old private contract bounty hunter stalking a young ruthless killer.
A bonus benefit is the salting throughout the plot of old vignettes from Call's long friendship with Gus MacRae when they were Texas Rangers, as set forth in Dead Man's Walk, Comanche Moon, and Lonesome Dove.
All four novels are long in pages, but short in reading time.
My favorite of the tetralogy is still Lonesome Dove, but Streets of Laredo runs a pretty close second place.
Probably the saddest of all of the Larry McMurtry books. I am a western story lover from long ago. Beacause Captain Call , Gus, Famos Shoes and Pea to name just a few, became friends of mine, I felt a growing loss because the era seemed to be coming to an end.Larry McMurtry has an ingenious way of expressing the very basic feelings we have all experienced (love, hate, fear, etc.) on paper and sometimes on our emotions.I would recommend this novel to all who enjoy the "good ol' days" western stories.
Final installment of the Lonesome Dove series sees some closure; some happy and some sad elements of the western life. Is McMurtry giving us a lesson to retire before our aging physical and mental abilities can't keep up with our more youthful life experiences?Bottom line on McMurty is he turned me on to historical fiction.
