https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/56726.Islands_in_the_Sky
Great example of classic "hard" SF, with lots of technical terminology, discussions of thrust and orbits and rockets and navigation, and near-misses with hull punctures, medical emergencies, and mishaps.
Includes a very early jab at the idiocy of treating space as a garbage dump and launching nuclear waste and other trash into it.
By today's SF standards it's pretty thin (ok, emaciated) in terms of plot, but given the time and context in which it was written it was probably considered jam-packed with cool stuff and sent techno-nerds everywhere into spasms of joy, so I give it props for that :)
No, check that—he meets a family from Mars in the last couple of chapters, and their pretty photographs convince him that he wants to go to Mars, so I suppose has grown beyond his earlier ambition to just live in a space station.Clarke's science is pretty good, aside from his lifelong inclination to cram life under every moonrock.
Change a few incidental details and the landing of the "Earth ferry" would do for the Space Shuttle—and remember that this novel was first published in 1952.Yet, other SF authors are able to write novels with young protagonists encountering intruiging technical and scientific ideas, also meeting interesting and 3-dimensional characters, with some semblance of a plot arc.
This is one of the books that drew me into science fiction.
We unfortunately haven't come close to this vision.Following that point is that it's interesting to see what isn't there and that's a reflection of what we have learned since then.
Another notable inaccuracy is the planetary science, there's life where we know that there isn't.But these issues don't really matter because the story reflects the dream of anyone who has wished to go into space.
It's a short, fast paced book that packs a lot in and reminds me just why I enjoy science-fiction so much.
This is a story about the setting, the world that the main character lives in.
As many people have commented nothing happens in this book.
This is not an action book.
However, I still really enjoyed it!Clarke writes about a world where humans already have many space stations, colonies on the moon, and mars, and even exploration missions to mercury.
Clarke clearly understands the way things work in space even though this was published in the 50's.
Clarke describes the life of an average boy as he takes a couple weeks of vacation on a space station, not a vacation station though, but a working station.
Un classique de la SF qui m'a réellement chamboulé à certains moments autant qu'il m'a rempli d'ennui à d'autres.Le style d'écriture est assez plat vu le ton employé puisque le narrateur raconte l'histoire de son séjour dans l'espace comme s'il écrivait un journal de bord, bien un journal intime, un mémoire ou une lettre (j'espère que vous voyez ce que je veux dire :P ).Il ne se passe pas grand chose d'intéressant mais la force de ce roman est, à mon avis, dans les descriptions faites par Arthur C.
C'est un roman qui se lit doucement et qui se déguste.
By the end of his tale you realize it's because there aren't any.
There's nothing necessarily unlikable about him, but also nothing overly likable about him either, and as you sit and nod your head along to his story you begin to wonder how you can get through this quickly, grab your drink and get the hell away from him without being rude as his story is not poorly told, just drawn out and ultimately dry.It's unfortunate that this story couldn't come together - which becomes pretty clear about 100 pages in.
Arthur C.
Clarke is a fantastic writer, so all of his books are good - but some are great.
I honestly think that Islands in the Sky is one of his great ones.Its dated, yes - but at no point is it so unbelievably dated that your mind can't stretch just enough to make it okay.His choice of young protagonist is perfect, and I found myself 'reading' in a sort of Opie Griffith (Andy Griffith - Mayberry show) voice.
It was a quick read and all the better for that, I think.
Islands in the Sky was originally published in 1952 and was one of the Winston Science Fiction juvenile series published in the 1950s.
I currently have a collection of most of the series and may reread some more of these soon.This novel takes place in the last part of the 21st Century and the protagonist is sixteen-year-old Roy Malcolm who wins a science quiz program.
While there, he experiences several adventures including an emergency trip to a space hospital several thousand miles outside of the inner space station's orbit.
I may have read this back in my youth, but if I did it was so long ago that I had forgotten all of this vintage tale of space by Arthur C. Clarke. It is important to note that it was written in 1952, almost a decade before the first human traveled into space, yet Clarke had a keen understanding of the physics of orbits, landing, etc. and turns the details into a nice tale of a teenager who wins a trip into space that's not horribly dated. 3.5 stars.
Clarke's Islands in the Sky, and was fascinated with the intricate descriptions of the Space Shuttle, weather satellites, communication devices, ideas of orbiting solar energy panels, space stations..etc...
There is room enough in this world for both novels.One day, when the fascination for things of fantasy fade, when dragons are asleep on their hoards, and vampires are safely stored in their coffins, and wizards study the stars rather than alchemy, the jewels of science fiction will come back to enchant children once again.
In fact, there are quite a few novels now that teenagers and kids can read from the masters of science fiction.
Doing it a dozen times in a short book that has nothing much in terms of plot or characters, makes you feel like you are being treated like an idiot.There is nothing interesting about the cast and the plot is just an excuse to shovel in fundamental ways of how technology would probably work in the future.
The jump scares are what stick out the most and since they are all proven to be fake, makes you hate the book despite its educational and/or inspirational intentions.
Written in 1952, half this book is outdated and the other half has come almost exactly true.
As he does with a lot of his stories, Clarke is essentially using the premise (young man wins a contest which allows him to travel to an active space station) as a playground to explore his different ideas about life in space orbiting Earth.
So I'm a little bummed that this sort of story nowadays is marginalized because of the idea that "nothing much happens." These days sci-fi and fantasy have more in common with cinematic adventure or comic books than with Arthur C Clarke.
It's the story of a teenaged boy who wins a trip to a space station, but there's no sense of overall plot.
When there are moments where the excitement levels raise, it's never the protagonist who deals with them and any sense of danger gets undercut.
For example, there's a "meteor strike" which turns out to be a teaching exercise and it's another boy who deals with it.
This book doesn't have enough plot to sustain it.
It's also overwhelmingly male.
I know this is a product of the time it was written, but all the pilots, space station crew, apprentices, scientists, doctors, etc.
were male.
I first read Islands in the Sky when I was 12 or 13.
I recently read it again some 35 years later.It's a really fun story, with some real science and a kind of lived in feel.
Overall the book has a very British, blue collar vibe.In some ways the book shows its age in a lot of the working practices described seem to owe more to British Industry in the 1950s and 60s; but this is not a bad thing as it shows how much speculative fiction is rooted in the world in which it was written.Although probably not ACC's best work, I rate it as 5 star as a reflection of how much I took from this story.
It's quite a short book and an easy read and I really recommended it.
Should be called "Boy's Life in the Sky", but I don't say that to belittle it. This novel pre-dated Sputnik but still described accurately satellites in various orbits. The 1940's style is a little stilted for some, I'm sure, but it's where I found quite a bit of charm. It's always fun to read stories that predict a future that's in our past (e.g., exploration of Venus in 1985), but huge credit to Arthur C. Clarke for getting so much right and for clearly having so much fun in the process.
It's old-science fiction, so we get things like creatures living on Mercury and space stations that can beam television programs all around the world. But it's fun. The way to handle these books is to view them as historic documents from an alternate universe in which people really did colonize the moon and find life there, and that their future has diverged significantly from ours. Why else would space be so male and white in 2070 or so?
A great introduction to Arthur C Clarke, especially for younger readers. His enthusiasm for mans triumph of technology in order to leave our planet is on full display here. The story is from a young boys point of view and the book is fun, exciting and fascinating - as a visit on a space station would be! His predictions or how it will work are very accurate and as a result the book is still fresh with only a few outdated ideas.
Διαβάζοντας το με έπιασε μια νοσταλγία. Αρχικά γιατί πρόκειται για έργο της λεγόμενης εφηβικής λογοτεχνίας, και έπειτα γιατί είναι εκδόσεις Κάκτος. Αυτό συνεπάγεται τα απαραίτητα τυπογραφικά λάθη, την απρόσεχτη μετάφραση αλλά και όλη αυτή τη νοσταλγική ατμόσφαιρα της Ε.Φ. στα ελληνικά τέλος '70 αρχές '80. Στην υπόθεση του η νουβέλα αυτή είναι το όνειρο κάθε έφηβου, δηλαδή να γίνει αστροναύτης και να ταξιδέψει στο διάστημα...
A rather straight forward "hard sci-fi" book best described as a 'boy's adventure.' Written in 1952, a rocket very similar in design to the Space Shuttle is used; geo-stationary orbit satelites used for communications are also introduced, as are various low earth orbit systems and rockets to the inner planets.
Fun read. This was written in 1952 and envisioned a world of open space travel within the solar system. The main character is a teen boy which gives the whole thing a wide-eyed charm. Amazing what Clarke was able to create in this story, more than a decade before we made it to the moon!
It's a good book, but weirdly for a novel there is no tension, conflict or resolution. It's a travelogue of a space station, but a story nonetheless. This tends to happen with Arthur C Clarke but it's none the worse for it. It's just very oddly plotted.
Clarke is the man, but I think this book is only going to work for you if you are a tween science nerd living in the past. It is so cheesy and outdated and structure-less and full of conflict-free episodes.You can see where Clarke was working out his {explain gravity and up-n-down outerspace confusion} that he would spill all over Rama, but there is just that here, and nothing meaningful or thematic or character-wise ever gets going.
Enjoyable, realistic scifi.
A good story, one of the many I read as a teen. I love Clarke and this book is an excellent example of his talent to impress the reader.
The same goes for the general picture of humanity spreading out into the local solar system, including the establishment of large-scale orbital facilities, and the colonization of Mars, a device which is used at the end of the novel to set up a potential sequel.Second, this is clearly written for younger readers.
However, adult readers should be forewarned that this book is clearly aimed at the Clearasil crowd.This leads to my final criticism, and this is the real flaw: Clarke's novel is not really a novel so much as a loosely-bound collection of vignettes, a series of short stories held together by a relatively weak framing device.
It follows the adventures of a 16-year-old boy, who wins a trip to a space station.
What it DOES have is lots and lots of descriptions of how satellites work, orbital science, and what it's like to live and work in zero gravity.
First, and most surprising, is that Clark has the space station commander using "an old-fashioned fountain pen" - in ZERO GRAVITY!
Fountain pens require gravity to work!
However, given the time the book was written, this is understandable.
It's not the typical "space opera" of the time, but has lots of good science-based fact and conjecture.
Es, al menos a mi parecer, una novela de ciencia ficcion que podria agradar a chicos y grandes por igual.No puedo dejar de hacer notar que la novela esta llena de detalles tecnicos y minucias sobre el dia a dia dentro de una estacion espacial, detalles como el alimento, el baño, beber liquidos y otras cosas que se complican demasiado estando en gravedad cero...
pero lo impresionante es que esas cosas aun no pasaban!!!Mucho de lo que se habla en la novela es sencillo de imaginar en estos tiempos ya que lo hemos visto tanto en películas como en caricaturas y hasta en videojuegos, pero en el 57, que fue cuando se publicó esta novela, nada eso existía, todo era solo conjeturas.
I enjoy the Heinlein "juveniles" even today without putting a label on them.Roy wins the contest sponsored by World Airways, Incorporated and first prize is a trip anywhere on Earth between the north and south poles.
The novel tells of his adventures, mostly adventures to a teenage boy, on the Inner Station, though he gets a trip further out to the hospital station and then the moon when a miscalculation sends them out to the moon.I rather enjoyed it after so many years.ISLANDS IN THE SKY is very much a novel of it's time.
Islands in the Sky is one of Clarkes earlier works.
Islands in the Sky is a light-hearted read about a young teenager named Roy who won a contest and his prize was to be able to go anywhere on Earth.
Although I have nothing against books with aliens, I felt the inclusion of them in this book actually took a bit away from the story.
Personally I think this book would have had more of an effect on me if it were simply a boy's adventure in space.
