https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/49221.A_Grief_Observed
To begin with, let me offer you my condolences. If you’ve come here to read about C.S. Lewis’s A Grief Observed, you’re probably doing it for a specific reason. It’s not the thing you reach for in times of sunshine and cloudless days and a future of beautiful forevers. It’s the thing you reach for when you are casting about in the dark, looking for something, anything, that might help. So, I am sorry for your loss. For the grief you are experiencing. * * *My grief: On June 22, 2015, my brother-i
Clive Staples Lewis was nearing the age of 60 when he married Helen Joy Gresham (nee Davidham, and referred to in A Grief Observed as “H”), an American divorcee who had come to England, leaving behind an abusive husband.
At work, at the club, in the street, I see people, as they approach me, trying to make up their minds whether they’ll ‘say something about it’ or not.
It’s not local at all…Her absence is like the sky, spread over everything.That’s the way of it.
I think a thousand times a day: Paul would’ve liked this.
Without God's love I don't know how I would have survived.So, that's the reason why A Grief Observed by C.S. Lewis sat on my bookshelf for all these years.
I knew reading the book would bring back a lot of emotions and sadness (which, by the way, never really goes away.
It's just a different kind sadness).A Grief Observed was a painful read.
I felt a kindred spirit in reading his words and knowing that I wasn't alone in my grief.Death is hard.
It takes time to regroup but in the end you do survive.Thanks Shirley for picking this book for me.
لینک دانلود نسخه الکترونیک کتاباز هر چشم اندازی که به مرگ بنگریم، بدین معنی است که تمام تجربیات به پایان رسیده اند و مربوط به قلمرو گذشته اند و گذشته،گذشته است. معنی زمان نیز همین است،زمان عنوانی دیگر است برای مرگ و بهشت نیز...بهشت نیز وضعیتی است که تمام چیزهای پیشین درگذشته انددرباره نویسنده عموما سی اس لوئیس را در ایران بواسطه مجموعه نارنیا بهعنوان یک فانتزینویس میشناسند، این درحالیست که لوئیس در حوزه الهیات و مذهب هم چهره ای شناخته شده و جهانی محسوب میشود. لوئیس تا پایان عمر خود بیش از 50 اثر
لوئیس در نوزدهم سپتامبر 1931 در یک مهمانی شام با انکار الوهیت مسیح، از دوست خود تالکین پرسید چگونه ممکن است زندگی و مرگ فردی که دو هزار سال پیش می زیست ،امروز در جایی که هستیم ما را مدد کند،غیر از اینکه یک نمونه و راهنمای اخلاقی برای ما باشد؟دو نویسنده تا ساعت 4 صبح با یکدگیر و گفتگو کردند و لوئیس 9 روز بعد رسما خود را مسیحی نامید و پذیرفت که "عیسی مسیح پسر خداست" .
This is a short but meaningful read; it is less than 100 pages, but it took me several days to finish because I frequently had to put the book down and contemplate certain passages.Lewis often wrote and spoke about his Christianity, and this book has meditations on God and faith and purpose.
But don't come talking to me about the consolations of religion or I shall suspect that you don't understand.""And grief still feels like fear.
Grief is like a long valley, a winding valley where any bend may reveal a totally new landscape.""Did you ever know, my dear, how much you took away with you when you left?
Hacía tiempo que quería leer este libro y realmente me alegro de haberlo hecho. Un libro, sea dicho de paso, que se lee en una hora. A simple vista, podríamos decir que el argumento de la historia es muy sencillo: el duelo por la muerte de un ser querido y la fe en Dios. Pero en sus páginas nos encontramos con muchas preguntas, a las que cuesta encontrar una respuesta.
Forse chi è in lutto, chi soffre, dovrebbe essere isolato come i lebbrosi.Il ricordo è una realtà ambigua, non è necessariamente espressione d’amore.Ma dalla metà in poi a me pare che Lewis recuperi l’equilibrio anglicano che lo rese famoso di qua e di là dell’oceano (le trasmissioni radiofoniche) e così facendo mi perde, mi allontana, mi lascia smarrito nei pensieri filosofici e teologici che riguardano il suo dio, che mi annoiano tanto.Dio sembra assente nel momento del nostro maggiore bisogno appunto perché è assente, perché non esiste.
S. Lewis is one remarkable Christian writer (Screwtape Letters, Miracles: A Preliminary Study, Surprised by Joy: The Shape of My Early Life, etc) and his thoughts are inspiring and can strengthen one's faith especially if that someone has just lost a loved one.I had my share of deaths in the family.
I just had to pull out those painful death experiences while reading Lewis' narratives.
S. Lewis found love in the late middle-age when he met Joy, an American writer and a single-mother (of two sons).
I felt that I needed a little push to get me over that cliff… It’s almost like the more time passes the more hesitant I am to revisit the grief.
I was talking to a friend and I mentioned how I felt like I was a house of cards.
When I’m out in the real world, where life goes on, I can run my fingers across the deckle pages and remember I need to breathe.
That someone else knows what it’s like.
I like to think that his death is for the better… that he’s in less pain now… that we have less of a struggle now.
Me, like everyone else who had gone through the loss of a beloved, will surely recognize the same emotions that Lewis describes.It's not easy to give a rational review of this book.
He screams about his suffering and ours.But yet, this is not a book about pain.
That's why I think about him like a friend, a mentor, a man who wasn't just an intellectual but also a man who was able to touch the human heart in its most wounded spots without falling in mere complaining.I suggest this book to anyone who have suffered the same even if sometimes it takes bravery to look in the mirror of your wounds.
After my wife passed away from cancer and I was in the depths of grief, well meaning friends kept bringing me what I call "victory books." These are books about dealing with the death of a loved one that basically said, "If you were a victorious Christian you would get over this." I wanted to throw those books in the pond behind my house.
Somehow, and I don't remember how, I came across C.S. Lewis' book A Grief Observed.
As I read the first page the tears began to flow and I began my healing as I read the author's experience after losing his wife to cancer.
Part of every misery is, so to speak, the misery's shadow or reflection: the fact that you don't merely suffer but have to keep on thinking about the fact that you suffer.
I hate if they do, and if they don't.""Aren't all these notes the senseless writings of a man who won't accept the fact that there is noting we can do with suffering except to suffer it?""We were even told, 'Blessed are they that mourn,' and I accept it.
Of curse it is different when the thing happens to oneself, not to others, and in reality, not imagination.""I thought I trusted the rope until it mattered to me whether it would bear me.
Not it matters and I find I didn't."
A beautiful book on loss...what we must search for in our heart when someone we love dies. I must confess that this book brought a mixture of hope and dread to me - I will ponder the questions C.S. Lewis addresses for the rest of my life.
A Grief Observed seemed to 'find' me when I needed consoling insight after my brother died; C.
S. Lewis was foreverafter a friend who not only knew and understood something very profound, but also had been there for me when I needed him.A Grief Observed was also my introduction to the immortal Lewis, having missed the Narnian Chronicles in my childhood.
Lewis wrote Grief in response to his own loss of a beloved wife Joy which hit him very hard and rocked his Christian faith down to the very foundation.In that respect, I highly recommend it to anyone dealing with grief or trying to help someone else who is so suffering.
Saying goodbye to someone who was there beside us our whole lives is just about the hardest thing we ever have to do.  “And grief still feels like fear. Perhaps, more strictly, like suspense. Or like waiting; just hanging about waiting for something to happen. It gives life a permanently provisional feeling. It doesn’t seem worth starting anything. I can’t settle down. I yawn, I fidget, I smoke too much. Up till this I always had too little time. Now there is nothing but time. Almost pure time,
“And grief still feels like fear.
Don't you realise the world had lost one of its most amazing people?' But that's the grief talking.
But then there are moments of happiness like when the little kids next door make me laugh and I forget that I'm sad...
And then I remember that I'm supposed to be grieving and I feel almost guilty for laughing.
I say to myself 'doesn't grief and loss mean I should be sad all the time?' This book doesn't have the answers.
And in reading about his grief I felt connected to life.
به نظرم حق داشتم که حتی دو ستاره هم کم کنم، پرش و تغییر عقیده ی ناگهانی نویسنده در عرض چند کلمه عجیب بود.
شبیه آدمی که داره خودش رو از رنج می کوبه زمین و فریاد می کشه، ولی یهو پا می شه و می گه من دوباره همه چیو از نو می سازم چون همه چیز به نگاه من بستگی داره!
به دلیل خصومت شخصی دلم می خواست سه ستاره بدم، ولی حق کتاب چهار ستاره بود به نظرم.

C.s. Lewis gives us visions on dead not often thought of.
It dominates his daily life.
His vision is one of 'with dead the person dies and is no more; neither physical nor metaphysical'.
His believe in God crimps.To the end, his vision slightly changes.
He revives in daily life.
He thinks of the dead person as an reflection of God, in which the person still can exist, also for them who stay behind.Not an easy book but comforting in a way that it looks for answers for omnipresent big questions.
He can't give you an answer but can give you a start to thinking.
Herein lies a picture of a man who reached great heights among critical, intellectual, and Christian circles worldwide, and in this, one of his last books before a soon-coming death, describes the crashing of his entire world in the death of his wife, a falling of his house of cards, as he calls it.
I read Lewis believed in a form of purgatory, where Christians come to the end of life, and Jesus will let them in because they had faith, but they could have done better, so He allows them to be purged if they so choose.
I didn't feel the acceptance as much per se, but more of a fondness for her memory and realizing that to rely too much on memory is never enough.It's a sad, sobering book that is helpful to read through a person's own grieving process.
The raw feelings come clearly through the pages, scattered thoughts almost always disjointed by inner reflections as his mind tries to heal through the trauma he faced.
It's a personal process that has been shared, a painful experience that clearly comes through his writing.
Yet at the same time, grief is recognizable.
Lewis touches that.He is so emotional in this book that it shocked me.
This isn't the Lewis I recognize, yet at the same time it has his fingerprints all over it.
It made him human and I love this book for that.
The depth of Lewis's pain is beyond what I can comprehend.
You don't read this book to smile or to discover rational argument about pain.
You read it because emotions are real and raw and part of the human existence and Lewis's willingness to be open makes that existence a little bit more understandable.
As Madeleine L'Engle says in her introduction, “each experience of grief is unique,” and Lewis was a quirky sort of fellow.
His grieving for his wife, so dearly cherished during their far-too-brief marriage, is explored through the format of passionate journal entries.
As with others of his works, I find that our thoughts on the issue of theodicy – the problem of pain and a benevolent, all-powerful God – aren't quite the same.
Still, his experience of the progression of loss and pain, of struggle to reconcile belief and emotion, of fear of the loss of memories, etc., have elements which much surely be nearly universal, and his honesty is comforting.
Unlike C.S. Lewis, it was my dad whom I lost 17 years ago; but when he said that “grief felt so like fear” in the beginning of his book, I believe I know what he meant ; or, to make it more precise, I think he knows exactly what he’s talking about.A Grief Observed offers a look at a man in deep despair, who doubted God because of it, but eventually emerges with a deep understanding of himself, his love for his departed wife, and of God.In the first part, the question he presented is not “Do God really exist?”, but rather ”Is God truly good?” If so, then why is a good God would allow man to suffer?Along the way, he referred to God as the Cosmic Sadist.
Author C.S. Lewis, best known for his work in the fantasy genre writing the Chronicles of Narnia series, unfortunately lost his wife and was told to repress his grief and emotion, keeping up appearances, but in secret he wrote this amazing, sad and very human book consisting of poetry and thoughts he had back at the time.
But thinking about that and my conversation with my friend yesterday, I think it may not be that strange, because I realize that I may have not been ready to read C.S. Lewis' books back when I first got them.Truth be told, I wouldn't have gotten A Grief Observed if it wasn't one of the books for discussion in our Goodreads group.
Like death, no one is exempt from grief, but I think we do have a choice on what to believe while we grieve.
Presently he'll get back his strength and be able to stump about on his wooden leg.
He has 'got over it.' But he will probably have recurrent pains in the stump all his life, and perhaps pretty bad ones; and he will always be a one-legged man.
But I do know that as someone who has known grief, and who knows life well enough to know that I will know it again in a new and fresh way (unless I should first die suddenly), this book is helpful in taking a subject that will be experienced by almost every living person and making it accessible, and showing the reader she is not alone.
This was one of the greatest books I've read this year.
I love short, pithy, and thoughtful works.
There might be more here than in a book of a 1,000 pages.
TWHF is about the grief that follows loss, and in this story Lewis nails it in stunning fashion!
So I find it incredibly interesting that Lewis, after writing TWHF, should have to live it out in his own life.
And lament (the honesty) helps us to heal and wise up.
I love books that draw me close to God. And this one did.
And yet, I do think Lewis was honest with himself: When his wife Joy died of cancer, his recovery involved a kind of hide and seek with God. Throughout this short book, Lewis maintains his high standards of writing and comes up with such painfully honest observations as the following:Tonight all the hells of young grief have opened again; the mad words, the bitter resentment, the fluttering in the stomach, the nightmare unreality, the wallowed-in tears.
My losses are my forebears: My father, mother, and great-grandmother.
I read this once before, right after college and appreciated the keen observations of God and man. I read it again just now and appreciate the deep humanness of the pain and agony. I believe this to be Lewis's best book in that it differs so dramatically from his others. It is so rich and honest and painful and hopeful.
beautifully written expression of pain ... reflections on the power of elusive and selective memory ... a sense that, after death, we are still married
I stumbled across this little book in a used bookstore and as I recently lost my mother, I thought it might be just what I needed.
As he struggles to come to terms with this grief in his heart, I connected with so much of what he wrote.
Such as, "Part of every misery is, so to speak, the misery's shadow or reflection; the fact that you don't merely suffer but have to keep on thinking about the fact that you suffer." Or this, "Grief is like a long valley, a winding valley where any bend may reveal a totally new landscape." So true!
