https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6250659-a-history-of-malaysia
Reads like an academic paper in which the researcher just rambles a lot, just in order to receive more research money. There is no real proper introduction about primary historical sources or ethnic groups and it doesnt mention that Malaysia is actualy a federation of Sultanates so names as Johor or Perak are just thrown to you. Even worse the writer just jumps from subject to subject in mere sentences, so that the book reads like a very confusing mish-mash of facts.
the scope of the book is impressive, and is probably its strongest selling point. it's kind of like a massive wikipedia page about malaysia, with better writing. like all wikipedia pages though, it's not meant to be comprehensive - just a very solid place to start.
It's a textbook. So, it reads like a textbook. Useful info but I would have preferred a pop history if I could have found one.
The writers conclude by teasing out five themes from their historical survey that have permeated Malaysian history: (1) constant contact with the outside world for ideas, goods, people (2) the often symbiotic relationship between the rulers and the ruled (3) power struggles between political centres and peripheral areas (4) the nature of being 'Malay' (5) the incorporation and assimilation of migrants.
The indicative bibliography at the back seems good (although virtually only for English language readings), and is well-organised for readers looking at more specialized areas, including recent history.
Picked this up as I was travelling to Malaysia and like to have a book to read to learn more about the place while I'm travelling.
This book was not a good choice for such a purpose - it's way too dense and detail-laden for a casual reader.
For a casual reader, however, I would look elsewhere - personally I didn't get beyond the first chapter.
I ended up reading A Malaysian Journey instead and found this to be a much better choice - a personal story with a lot of modern Malaysian history interwoven.
GOOD BOOK
A History of Malaysia is the standard work on the topic and effectively covers the broad scope of Malay history from Srivijaya to modern day Malaysia.
The authors comprehensively illustrate common themes in the area's history -- a geographic position between India and China that led to broad cross-cultural blending but also a genius for adaptation, the tone and content of relationships between rulers and ruled, and centrifugal tendencies on the Peninsula and Borneo.
This is not an easy beach read; you might try Jim Baker's Crossroads: A Popular History of Malaysia and Singapore if you want "history without tears." But to truly understand the broad historical, economic and social trends in Malaysia, it would be hard to beat the Andayas' work.
