https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/581126.Somewhere_In_Time
A screenwriter with an inoperable brain tumor becomes obsessed with an actress from the turn of the century and uses hypnosis to travel back in time to meet her.I've been reading a fair bit of Richard Matheson lately and stumbled upon this at the used bookstore.
Richard Collier finds out he has a brain tumor and decides to go for one last road trip.
He stays at a hotel, becomes infatuated with an actress from 1896, and travels back to the 1890's with self hypnosis.
You're lying on the bed in your room at the Hotel del Coronado and it's Thursday afternoon, November 19, 1896.
In only a couple of letters, Elise captured my imagination just as easily as her picture enchanted Richard Collier: "And life, most sweet, as heart to heart, speaks kindly when we meet and part." The story stops much too soon for me, a bittersweet moment that is probably meant to encourage us to be true to our feelings and to live fully in the present, because it passes in the blink of an eye.
you find out why handsome, 36 year old Richard Collier decides to travel and write a book about it.......hooked!As you can guess or already know having seen the movie, Richard travels back in time from 1971 to the Victorian times of 1896 to find his imagined love, actress Elise McKenna, and although the love relationship is foolishly sentimental and a bit over-the-top with all the "I Love You's"......combined with the detailed historic descriptions and "Oh No!" surprise moments within these pages, I really quite enjoyed it.......(view spoiler)[despite that dam 1971 penny that ruined everything!
(hide spoiler)]The Beginning Note and Postscript by (brother) Robert Collier brought the story's climax together for me making for a delightful (view spoiler)[but ultimately sad (hide spoiler)] trip into the past.
Part fantasy novel, part romance novel, Richard Matheson's "Bid Time Return" finds dying writer Richard Collier falling in love with a photograph of a turn of the century actress Elise McKenna, becoming obsessed with her and then finding a way to travel back in time to meet her.On the surface, the premise sounds absurd, but really no more so than your standard romance novel.
At least that's the case at first.Once you accept the premise that Collier can and does find a way to move back in time to meet McKenna (he's staying at the same hotel she is, so he doesn't move in space, only time), the rest of the story falls well into place.
This is the romantic fantasy of an author born in the 1920s and in addition to being difficult for me to relate to on that end, excited me only in the moments its hero travels through time.Unfolding in the format of a found journal, Bid Time Return begins November 14, 1971 with thirty-six year old screenwriter Richard Collier leaving the Los Angeles home of his brother Robert.
And yes much like Titanic even though I knew what was coming I still shed a tear at the end.Told from a first person narrative and written as if you were reading a journal, we meet Richard Collier.
Richard then begins to research her life and in every instance notes a complete change in her character after her acting troupe left the hotel 75 years before.
Some of the time travel paradoxes in this are positively mind bending and you can’t think about them too long for fear of brain explosions.As I mentioned the writing changes as soon as Richard finds himself in 1896 (yeah he does) becoming more formal and detailed.
"I don't know why I'm putting up with this obviously creepy stalker who won't leave me alone, but I am magically in love with him." Holy hell.
Wow. All this is buried in heaps and piles of the sappiest dialogue I've read in a while, and spattered with pointless scenes that are intended to make it look like plot is happening.Girls, if a random creepy guy shows up and tells you he's destined for you after failing in love with your photograph, do the right thing and kick him out the nearest airlock.
As a teen, I must have seen this movie a hundred times, so I went into the book looking for those same feelings of love, romance, nostalgia and melancholy.
I haven't seen the movie in years, so a re-watch may be in order.This is the story of R.C. Collier, told in a narrative as if it were his journal.
The woman, a famous stage star of the late 1800's, early 1900's, is Elise McKenna.My favorite part of the book, which was very brief in the movie, was his research and attempts to visit the past.
:P This my fellow readers is romance, and it's actually written by a guy who wrote "I Am Legend", "Hell House" and "Stir of Echoes", if these titles ring any bells.
It takes some balls to be able to appropriately write romance.
Now begins the fall.Matheson tells us the story of Richard, a guy suffering from a terminal illness who falls in love with Elise, an actress who lived almost a century before his time.
In fact, Matheson writes in a way that makes you feel as though you're reading something personal.
He spends a tedious amount of time trying to explain away his time travel premise and forgets to explain the most obvious part of his book: how could a supposedly intelligent woman fall in love with his wacko main character?Saw the movie years ago and thought it would be fun to read the book, since they are USUALLY better.
It seems incredible to me that the reader is to believe that Elise would just go for this guy (who knows a creepy amount about her without being told and is only vague about himself) with no questions asked.I also found the beginning of the book, which is written as if it is a transcript of Richard speaking into his handy-dandy hand recorder extremely distracting.
A story about a man transporting himself backwards through time by love's inspiration is pretty great, and the way in which it's delivered is clever.
I was constantly distracted by the seemingly foolish, brash, unthinking, short-sighted, ignorant decisions or conversations the main character made.It seems like someone who can master himself, his mind, and time itself would be a bit cooler, calmer and more thoughtful.Furthermore - while this is perhaps more a commentary that Matheson intended about "love" and "true love", I couldn't help but find that once the lovers DO meet and DO fall in love, it's terribly shallow.
I have yet to have liked a Matheson book but I thought if there was one that I would, it would have been the last one, or at least this one.
I was still dithering about reading this but then I landed on Time Travel in the SciFi and Fantasy Book Club Monopoly and thought it was a good excuse to finally knock it off my list.It turns out I still haven't liked a Matheson book.
He needed to be glued - the super glue type - to her side for the rest of eternity.
He attempts time travel back, she falls in love with him, and then they live happily ever afer in 1896?
Through the course of the book, I actually believed that it is possible to time travel the way the character did in this book - almost tried it one night; I'll spare you the details of the attempt.(***Possible Spoilers Below***) I have read through a lot of the reviews on "Somewhere in Time" and I'm having a hard time understanding many responses.
Everyone is entitled to their opinions, of course, but for one to say this was bad writing; I just don't know how to approach this.
5, 5, 5 stars. More if I could. I read another 5-star review that described the book as 'emotionally draining.' Yes, it is. It's also one of the only 'period novels' where I actually felt to be IN the time period itself. It's written in first-person narrative, reminiscent of the heightened awareness of environment and physical self of Kafka's Metamorphosis, and the dramatic inner dialogue of Camus' The Stranger. And it's romantic and touching and BELIEVABLE. Just a wonderful book.
Only the book is different in that there's something revealed about Richard in the very early pages of the story that makes you realise that, far from his trip to the past being certain, it might, in fact, actually be a delusion.I didn't like that so much.
Ultimately, this is much more Richard's story, though.I'm glad I read this, because I wanted to know how it had inspired the film, but it isn't a book I'd read again.
The book gives the reader a better understanding of Elise, what her beliefs and how much she had to struggle with herself and her feelings about Richard.
It also seems she may have know that Richard would leave her in the end.Richard seems unsure of himself most of the story but he was dealing with his imminent death, traveling in time and the unknowns of his realtionship with Elise plus her mother and manager.The book ending left the reader wondering did Richard go back in time and meet Elise or was it just a delusion.
I almost always read the book before I see the movie but not so with Somewhere In Time.
The movie starring Christopher Reeve and Jane Seymour is one of my all time favorite movies.
I was expecting a lot out of the book and it was very good but fell a little short for me.
But putting the movie aside, as I said before, the book is very good.
I enjoy time travel books if they are well written and this one was.
I gave it four stars.
I'm somewhat inclined to favor this book: the female love interest in the book is modeled after my near-ancestor, and it takes place in San Diego, a location close to my heart.Richard Matheson is a very good writer, though, particularly when writing from the first person perspective.
You can understand the protagonist's thoughts and actions, even when they are clearly making a mistake (this excellent first person perspective was also present in _I Am Legend_).
A large part of this is because I understood the main character himself, and have had many of the same emotions regarding longing for my true love, being excited just to remain in her presence, and not being able to stand the time when we are apart.
I read this under the original title "Bid Time Return", before the movie was released.
I've re-read it several times since (and will read it again).
This is probably my all-time favorite book ever, and I read a LOT.The book is a million times better than the movie, and I really like the movie.
The book was written in such a believable style that honestly, I was looking for some proof after I finished it that it was, in fact, fiction.
I was completely captivated by the story.As many of you are probably familiar with the movie, I'll just say that the book does differ a bit, most notably in the location.
Here's why I think it's a tumor hallucination rather than a time travel love story:1. When Richard goes back in time, his tumor mysteriously disappears. He is convinced he will spend a long life with Elise, rather than a few months.2. This might just be lack of research on Richard Mathesons part, but Elise isn't wearing a chemise under her corset. That's a big no-no because they get itchy and stinky if you don't wear anything under them.
So I didn't remember that the book's time travel actually takes place in California - since I was reading it at the Grand, that's where it took place.
(The movie is filmed at the Grand.)However, I remember the music references very well.
I remember being disappointed when the movie music was Rachmaninoff -- yes, I understand it's lush and romantic, but not what's in the book.
In the book our time-traveler had read a short bio on his past obsession that said one of her favorite composers was Mahler, but when he finally travels back in time to meet her, she's never heard any Mahler.
pleh. I'm unimpressed by guys traveling back in time to find the perfect woman, that is, one uninfected with feminism. Actually, if we could send all those guys back in time, it'd probably be just as well to have them out of the way. Perhaps I wouldn't be so cranky if there were just as many men coming forward in time to find the perfect mate, but I can't think of any. Sure, the modern world isn't perfect, but the decrease in maternal and childhood mortality alone would suggest it's a better place to have your family.
Sorry, no. I'm a Matheson fan, and I expected to be a fan of this. It's like a warmed over, less interesting version of Jack Finney's Time and Again. It would be fine if it just wasn't quite as good--because the Finney book is truly wonderful--but the fact is, I was alternately bored and uninterested for almost the entire book.
Esclusivamente per inguaribili romantici. Cosa che io non sono.
I grew up watching the movie starring Christopher Reeve. I appreciated how closely the book followed the movie, for the most part, but it was hard to listen to the thinking of the man for the entire book. I’m glad they made the movie better than the book.
Uuuuugh, another book with SO much boring blah blah blah in the middle of it I could barely get through it....!
*sigh* Matheson, what is you doin....?NO WHERE near as good as the movie, and somewhat changed from it as well, which I didn’t enjoy this time.
And I’d never understood one point the movie made: WHY didn’t the author try and go back?
Anyway, I’m tired of being disappointed and bored by Matheson, so idk if I will continue to read his novels in the future.
We will see.This review is another fantastic take on how this novel made me feel:https://www.goodreads.com/review/show...2.5 stars, and not recommended at all.
A clean, character-driven story that I recommend to just about anyone.Bid Time Return is something very different.It’s an almost stream of consciousness (presented as transcriptions from an old Dictaphone) trip through the last few months of a scriptwriter dying of inoperable, incurable cancer.
He randomly stops at an aging luxury hotel, falls in love with the picture of an actress, and then hypnotizes himself into going back in time to meet her so she falls in love with him.So, stream of consciousness, the main character falling in love with someone he’s never met, time travel by force of will.
I’m surprised I made it as far into the book as I did.Overall rating: 1 star.
Moreover, the character of Richard Collier is grossly flawed not only in how he becomes overly infatuated with someone after only seeing her in a faded, turn-of-the-century photograph but also the manner in which he steamrolls his way into Elise’s life, barely allowing her a moment to herself, putting his ego before her career and peace of mind.
Readers can only hope that these two will find in the hereafter what they were denied in this life.An endearing enough romance that features an innovative approach to the mechanics of time travel, Somewhere in Time is flawed but readable.
This is only the second work by Richard Matheson I have read; the first was the perfect little gem of a novella "I Am Legend." "Somewhere in Time" (originally entitled "Bid Time Return") is not as fine as the previous work, but it's an interesting attempt to write a love story combined with a time-travel sci-fi escapade.
Adapted into the 1980 film "Somewhere in Time" (the novel's title was later changed as a tie-in to the movie) by Jeannot Szwarc, starring Christopher Reeve and Jane Seymour - a movie that did poorly when released but which has since developed a cult following - the book has both the strengths and weaknesses of its adaptation.Los Angeles.
Al principio pensé que la historia estaría mucho más relacionada con los viajes en el tiempo pero no es así, la trama del libro se basa en los esfuerzos de Richard Collier por encontrarse con una mujer cuya foto lo hizo enamorarse de ella.
Elise me pareció encantadora, mientras que a Richard lo encontré demasiado asustadizo, desesperado y a veces hasta algo pervertido.
At first I thought the story would be much more related to time travel but it is not, the book's plot is based on the efforts of Richard Collier to meet a woman he falls in love with after seeing her picture in a hotel.
