https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/599919.Curse_of_the_Kings
***2017 Summer Lovin’ Reading List *** I really enjoyed Victoria Holt’s books when I was in my teens. Re-reading them as a mature adult has been a bit disappointing. Having always had a bit of thing for Ancient Egypt, I recall being enchanted by The Curse of the Kings. Unfortunately, having just recently read The Lord of the Far Island, I can now see far too clearly how formulaic Holt’s romances were.The main character is an orphan, she gets her education as a fortunate extra with the children
Unfortunately, having just recently read The Lord of the Far Island, I can now see far too clearly how formulaic Holt’s romances were.The main character is an orphan, she gets her education as a fortunate extra with the children of the gentry, she’s beautiful & spirited, and she gets miraculously saved from a desperate life as a lady’s companion by snagging the man intended for the well-born gal.
I associate the name Tybalt with fiery passion, so it seems strange to have this cold man share the name.Perhaps I should have let sleeping dogs lie, but I have another of Holt’s books out of the public library, which I will likely read.
The particular events in the stores are different of course, but it's basically the same format: (view spoiler)[childhoods, marriage, then serious doubt about marriage wondering if spouse would have rather been married to OW and is he going to murder her  (hide spoiler)] (I'm assuming since I haven't finished Menfreya, which I'll have to do now.) I have to admit that I like better Holt's books set in castles with Barons or Dukes or what have you.
The fact that 50% of the book was background and filler brought it down for me.I would still recommend this book, even reading the section about the characters' childhoods as it made for an interesting, though not exciting, story.
*Actual rating 2.5 stars*Holt's novels are kind of hit or miss for me, and this wasn't one of her better ones.
Plucky heroine marries an emotionally distant archaeologist and heads off for a dig in Egypt despite rumors of a Pharaoh's curse.
Holt's writing is as good as ever, but the book took forever to get off the ground (they don't arrive in Egypt until halfway through, and the heroine's backstory isn't that interesting) and fizzled out with a rushed, predictable ending.
I also did not like the hero and the author's attempt at OW drama; with a "cursed" archaeological dig in the story, that should have provided plenty of tension on its own.
And, then, the mystery, suspense and intrigue common to these types of novels made the second part of the book more exciting and fast-paced.Judith was an unusual woman for the times in which she grew up--feisty, unconventional, impulsive, domineering, exuberant.
Tybalt himself seemed a little too aloof and cool at times and totally obsessed with the dig his father had been involved with, but, to be fair to him, he did warn Judith that such might be the case.
I really enjoy reading novels that deal with mythology and history and Egyptian culture is particularly fascinating, as is archeology itself.
No fue entretenido; me dejó harta del tema "arqueología" que es torno al cual gira tooooooda la historia.
Solo una cosa me hizo -a regañadientes-terminarlo: (view spoiler)[saber si Tybalt y Tabitha estaban o no engañando a Judith (hide spoiler)] La protagonista -Judith- es casi insoportable; vivía en las nubes, nunca se enojaba, siempre estaba llena de energía y se tomaba las noticias (view spoiler)[como cuando se enteró de que era adoptada y después de que era heredera de una gran fortuna (hide spoiler)]con una ligereza impresionante.
En fin, es una historia que está bien escrita, pero nada emocionante.
Annoying heroine stood in the way of my enjoying this ook.Also Tybalt was a cold fish.
Despite her unknown parentage, Judith Osmond has a lovely childhood.
The local pastor and his sisters have provided a loving home for her at the rectory.
She has attended lessons with the local squire’s daughter and nephew.
That same squire, Sir Ralph, is quite pleased with her when she chances upon a Roman artifact; having a strong interest in archaeology himself, he finds her passion for archaeology worthy of indulging.Years later, on an expedition in Egypt financed by Sir Ralph, his neighbor and close friend Sir Edward dies unexpectedly and without apparent cause.
As Sir Edward was a healthy man, rumors quickly spread of a curse.
Judith dismisses the rumors .
Judith is annoying but still likable.
I like Victoria Holt books. I agree with an earlier reviewer that this is not her best book. This was the first novel of her's that I read and so it holds a special place in my heart. I enjoy her style of writing because I feel like I am reading something written in the 1870's instead of the 1970's.
Books written by Victoria Holt are so cheesy, but sometimes that's exactly what you need. I've read a loooot of her books when I was 14/15 years old..that was the last time I've read them. I absolutely loved them at the time. I'm thinking of reading one of her books just for the old times sake! =)
A good while away a chilly Saturday book. The prolific Ms. Holt tends to be a reliable and engrossing author. Her G-rated gothic romances work for me!
A wonderfully suspenseful and thrilling read tinted with the mystique, legends, and a possible curse of ancient Egypt.Certainly a must-read for all VH fans.
Set in Egypt... Delightful pharaohnic gothic romance...
Me decepcionó mucho.Como lectora mi valoración suele sustentarse en los personajes, si éstos me agradan al libro le daré mínimo 3 estrellas.
En el caso de esta novela, desde el comienzo no me simpatizó la protagonista, quien es también la voz narradora, porque tenía una personalidad que pretendía ser fuerte, pero que para mí era infantil.
La segunda mitad es algo más entretenida, porque describe el ambiente de Egipto, parte de las costumbres, los lugares (como el zoco y el palacio del Pashá), y la excavación tiene más relación.
Además en esta segunda mitad se va desarrollando una trama misteriosa, y la protagonista se vuelve paranoica y suspicaz.
This book was overly long, but the last 50 pages made up for all filler nonsense. ...Ok, maybe 'nonsense' isn't the word, but dang this book was long for such a simple tag line. Lol. Most of it was getting to know the characters and understanding their backstories... which was fine and all, but I would have preferred if the 'mystery' had dropped hints sooner.Still, this book was an amazing read! The last few chapters had me on the edge of my seat. It's just the length that prevents me from giving it a perfect 5.
It was kind of boring at some parts, but it was still good.
2.5... Naturalmente...
The passion for digging up the past is one that Judith shares, ever since the day she found a piece of a bronze shield in a freshly dug grave in the local churchyard.From the green countryside of England to Egypt and the palace of a local Pasha, Judith’s story progresses from her teenage fancies to realizing some of her most cherished dreams.
Was underwhelmed by the ending. I thought the love interest was one-dimensional. I did enjoy it though, mainly out of the respect I have for Victoria Holt. I'm always sure to be entertained, at least, remotely, by any of her books.
I've read four of Victoria Holt's novels now, and I liked all of them, but I've noticed all of her books work on a formula, and now I have very little interest in reading the rest of them.Here's the formula:Female protagonist is childhood friends with wealthy children in the area, but is not wealthy herself.
Eventually she is given an opportunity for adventure - either in a foreign land or in love or by moving into a creepy old house - and everyone in her life warns her off it, especially the guy she's been in love with forever.
I read a lot of Victoria Holt as a teenager, and in retrospect I can see that I enjoyed her books largely for the setting, since the gothic romance is always more or less the same.
Shortly after marrying, Judith and her new husband travel to Egypt to continue Sir Edward's work.
Once in Egypt, Judith finds herself jealous as her groom seems more married to his work than interested in his new bride.
Soon Judith finds herself pondering the ominous thoughts that all Holt's heroines eventually face: does she really know her husband?
The first half of the book is set in England; the second part in Egypt.
Although no date is specified I gather from certain details that the time period is around the 1880s.Several reviewers have stated that they prefer the Egyptian setting best, yet the events set in England engaged me the most.
The first half was much like a typical novel written during the Victorian era, which shows how authentic this 1973 publication is.
I like the no-nonsense heroine’s way of dealing with a most disagreeable lady who’s taken her on as a companion.The Egyptian section had potential to be much better than it was.
A very stern look at the regime of King Henry the Eight - and this is no romance.
It puts a very human feel to the time many books lack.
The reader has a narrator they can identify with in Katherine Pole that completely removes whatever sympathy romance novels about the era have created.
No one was safe during the reign of Henry and his father before him.
Even as the narrator tries to maintain her faith and loyalty, she is betrayed again and again.
There is no happy endings in this book, but there is, for the reader, the truth.
I think this is the first book I've read by this author, and it was rather fun...
at one point I really did wonder if, as opposed to most historical romance type novels, the hero would turn out NOT to be a hero, or the heroine would actually die...But far be it from me to offer a spoiler here.
I did have the impression there were a number of false leads - corridors which led to dead-ends, so to speak, that the author could have explored further.
would he turn out to be the one true love?
The book opens with the deaths of Sir Edward Travers and Sir Ralph Bodrean.
Sir Edward was an archaeologist and died in Egypt while on a site.
Sir Ralph had helped fund the expedition.
The beginning of the book is about Judith growing up with the children in both homes.
She was interested in archaeology and while growing up they had lessons about it and she continued her interest by reading books on the subject.
Eventually you get to the present where there is an unexpected inheritance, a marriage and another expedition to find whatever Sir Edward had been looking for.

Hands down, this is my favorite Victoria Holt novel because I love the protagonist so much. I'll admit it's not her strongest novel. The plot is a touch contrived and Judith's ability to let her imagination run away from her is taken to a rather unbelievable extreme. However, the characterization of Judith herself is more than enough to make up for the novel's flaws. Judith is exuberant, passionate, imaginative, and headstrong. The zeal with which she tackles life is incredibly appealing, and it's what keeps me reading this over and over again.
This was more about nostalgia than anything else.
I read all the Victoria Holt, Mary Stewart, Barbara Michaels that I could get my hands on growing up.
In the summer I would go out to the backyard and climb into the old Navy-issue hammock that I had strung between some trees on the wooded lot that bordered our lawn.
No school, a good book to take me far away from that small Wisconsin town, sunshine, birdsong...it was idyllic.
I enjoyed reading this again, but I couldn't help but be irritated by all the errors the author made.
More research on her part would have helped the story.
The only reason i started reading this novel was it being connected to Egypt and Pharaohs. But after reading this novel i am sure that i am going to read more of Eleanor Hibbert aka Victoria Holt.Initially slow paced, it makes you sit on the edge of your seats when you are half way through the novel. Please don't stop if you feel bored in the first few pages. Keep reading. trust me its totally worth it.A must read :)
The setting of this story was very interesting and I wonder if it was what had first piqued my interest in Egypt and the Middle East. But the romance was on the low end and would say a good twenty percent was spent on the heroine agonizing whether her husband loved her or not. Or more. It got to be pretty irritating, almost as much as the hero's cold indifference to her until the last five pages. Still, I think the Victoria Holt was an amazing storyteller, this book included.
An interesting read for people interested in archaeology, as central to the storyline is a search for a Pharaoh's tomb in Egypt. Set in the 19th century when people were supposed to maintain their station, the book provides a heroine who actively seeks to step above hers and to control her life choices.
