https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/567189.Language_in_Thought_and_Action
Linguistics schlinguistics… this is also a book about politics and public policy (Language in Thought and ACTION), and the best one about either subject that I’ve ever read.
It gives me hope that there is possibility for greater cooperation among us all, despite all of our real and, more importantly, perceived differences.
Perhaps I'm just new to reading about semantics, but I found the book's subject matter highly engrossing.Along the way it also systemizes a lot of common sense notions of language.
The book also reminded me of the Black Swan by Nassim Taleb because its very readable, results oriented, empirical, and the author is direct about what level of abstraction he is working at (and cares about such things as levels of abstraction).Its also kind of dated in terms of the technological and cultural references which could be a positive or a negative (positive for me).
But the cultural heritage that is transmitted to us—our socially pooled knowledge, both scientific and humane, has been valued principally because we believe that it gives us accurate maps of experience.p 130-131To attempt to converse in this way is to make all our social contacts occasions for what we have earlier called “the pooling of knowledge.” We can, if we are able to listen as well as to speak, become better informed and wiser as we grow older instead of being stuck, like some people, with the same little bundle of prejudices at sixty-five that we had at twenty-five.Statements made in everyday conversation, even if based on slipshod inferences and hasty over-generalizations, can usually be found to have some modest degree of truth value.
Stories of success coming to those who are 'passionate', that a toothpaste will make our teeth whiter, or that all we need is more "willpower" to succeed.Balanced biographies, scientific method, and approaching problems with a curious mindset all give us much more accurate maps to navigate our lives.Every time I crack this book open it expands my understanding of things I never used to pay attention to.Must read for anyone interested in improving their thought process and their lives.Rating system:I'm interested in books that describe underlying patterns and apply to all aspects of daily living.
I read a library copy of this book in high school, probably on assignment from my senior English teacher, Mr. Silkowski. It was the first book I'd ever read on communication theory and semantics other than Marshall McLuhan and it left far less of an impression, perhaps because it had been assigned by a teacher I didn't particularly like rather than recommended by an older friend whom I admired. The notion of General Semantics, however, I did find intriguing.
The entire Sequences, condensed.
Hayakawa is the kind of incredibly bright mind whose writing can make you think more methodically, conclude things more confidently, and feel smarter yourself.
Hayakawa compares any use of language to the practice of drawing a map of a physical territory.
And from this simple metaphor he draws an impeccably conscientious account of the kind of things we do when we use language, and the implications for us as actors in the world.
Language in Thought and Action is one of the most insightful books I’ve read to date.
I can only wonder whether Hayakawa knew how ahead of his time he was when he authored this book as the lessons and themes within apply to an even greater degree now than they did when the first edition was released.
If you are in search of a deeper understanding of the use and symbolism of language, look no further.
This book should be required reading for all, but especially for those with the responsibility of sharing information via mass media.
In many ways, it is about the evolution of prejudice in individual minds as a consequence of confusing levels of abstraction, so that "Pigs are dirty" implies that Hampton is dirty because Hampton is a pig, even though Hampton has always demonstrated excellent hygiene.
The characteristic metaphor here is that "maps" - levels of abstraction - fail to correspond to "territories." He details the differences between reports, inferences, and judgments, which are easily confused, at times with significant consequences.The book does not entirely dwell on the negative.
communication ("directive language") often uses unusual words and structure to impress upon its consumers the importance of the occasion in order to get them to behave in certain waysWhy I didn't like itMuch of the book is structured around a fundamental division of meaning into "extensional" (real-world) and "intensional" (inside the mind).
Something about this classification feels wrong to me, perhaps because, in a sense, even real-world objects exist only inside the mind.
It was written during World War II, and I suspect that more recent linguistic publications may have a more nuanced and better structured understanding of the concepts in this book.
Each level of abstraction bundles it with other things, farm asset includes tractors and buildings with the cow, and its name would isolate only the particular cow (process we call cow).-Open and close minded refers to how willing to accept or consider new ideas a person isWhen hearing a speech you have 4 choices1.
Reject the speaker and the message-Close minded people can either do 1.
Open minded people are able to do any of the 4.-Multi-Valued Orientation is the ability to not consider things as either one or the other.
In terms of writing and speaking, this book will help me to remain cognizant about the words I use, their meanings, and their contexts.
As a reader of books, articles, ads, etc., as well as one who "listens" to what others are saying, this book will help me to recognize that I must discern the "messages" I am receiving, in terms of their intended meaning by the writer and/or the speaker.
While the book is very profound and thought-provoking, Hayakawa's style is not erudite -- that is, he does not talk "down" to the reader.
I intend to re-read this book many times, in order to glean more of Hayakawa's important message.
just in case they were not yet emotionally prepared for the depth of this work as freshman and to strengthen its message as they step out into the world as "adults".This is one of perhaps a dozen books that has had and immense impact on how I view the world and my relationship to it.
It reinforced in me the concept that we need to try to look at the world through the eyes of others, and that how we and they "see" the world is to a large extent shaped by the language each of us uses to describe it.This is a monumental work obviously produced with crystal clear thinking ...
There is a lot of "common sense" (or should I say "uncommon sense"?) in this book.
This book helped clarify what I already knew but failed to put into practice about the language I use to describe, not just the world around me, but myself.
I found the distinctions between descriptions, inferences, and judgments especially helpful.
However, I find the structural differential of general semantic "orthodoxy" much more helpful than the abstraction ladder, though the abstraction ladder could serve as a good introduction to the structural differential (please forgive the jargon, but those who know about GS know what I'm talking about).
Anyway, it is amazing for the sheer level of practicality, clarity, and some of the best non-pretentious prose I've come across.
In my mind, this should become a mandatory read for all instructors, especially those of us who teach humanities.
Hayakawa's book offers key insights into better understanding the complexities of language, symbols, abstraction, and assumptions, to mention a few of the key themes covered in the book.
This book is one of those few books that I would recommend to any person who would like to understand the far-reaching possibilities of the human language.
A brilliant book by a brilliant mind with a brilliant history, as a conduit of social change and transformation.
Linguistics for the average person and day to day life situations.
A good refresher for anyone that uses a language...
Here are some notes I took, this isn't a formal review.The two-valued orientationPg 116"We request that every hen lay 130 to 140 eggs a year.
Else you can get stuck in an infinite circle of abstraction, everybody thinking about slightly different things when saying the same words.There were very interesting examples in the book of how in extremist political or societal systems everything is deduced to being either entirely good or entirely bad, for or against us.
Any argument that someone says is not 100% true or false - it might have some truth in it, like 1% (somebody says workers unions are bad - maybe 1 workers union out of 100 is really bad) and we win by expanding our knowledge.
Maybe they have some interesting examples from their life that can expand your knowledge as well.
As difficult and tedious as I sometimes found this to read, it had many interesting moments. I actually “accidentally” picked up this book, thinking it was about something else, but I continued reading it anyways out of sheer interest. This book was less a discussion about language and more a discussion about humanity and it’s habits. If I had to sum up the book in 6 words, it’d be: Quite interesting, but tedious to read.
This book is great -- my only regret is that I have not read it earlier.I specifically sought out and bought an older edition (3rd) on Amazon due to hints from some of the reviewers that some parts the later editions were subjected to politically correct castration.
Das Buch hat viele interessante Ansätze. Leider irgendwie nicht zu Ende gedacht. Es fehlte mir an Content.
A linguistic classic. Dated, but based on an insightful understanding of human understanding.
Sorry already in love with the book
Although a linguist friend didn't think much of Hayakawa's book, I found it very thought provoking, and therefore meaningful.My favorite quote from this book wasn’t even by Hayakawa:"A classic is a work which gives pleasure to the minority which is intensely and permanently interested in literature.
Modern Works have to pass before the bar of the taste of successive Generations semicolon whereas, with Classics, which have been through the ordeal, almost the reverse is the case.
If you differ with a modern work, you may be wrong or you may be right, but no judge is authoritative to decide your taste is unformed.
Stumbled upon this book (although one of a different edition) in the school library and was hooked on it, so I went and bought a copy.
Countless 'lightbulb moments'.I first read this book from 15 October 2011 to 22 March 2012, and the above was my review from that reading.
One cannot but wonder at this constantly recurring phrase "getting something for nothing," as if it were the peculiar and perverse ambition of disturbers of society.
In short, civilization is little else than getting something for nothing — James Harvey Robinson
Not only does Hayakawa elucidate concepts about words and language, he actually exhorts the reader to utilize the language in such a way as to promote forward thinking and proper action.
I absolutely loved his section about language in action, because when we internalize and think about what we speak, he suggests that we are actually making the world a better place.
By being rigorous with the language that we think, and by being rational and purposeful with the language that we speak, he suggests that cooperation among ourselves will be bettered.
Bought it thinking I was getting a book from the 40s, anticipating a meaty discussion of language from the perspective of another era.
Offers some very basic concept about language suitable for high school level.
For example, it proposes that to create more patriotic feeling, we should educate student with all the details of democratic institutions.
If that were true, universities would be bastions of patriotic ferver and roadside bars full of internationalists.
The book is full on straw men and ends with a stirring sermon on how government would be so much better if elites made all the decisions without 'ideological' input.In short, very disappointing.
I was an English major in college.
We had a lot of books we had to read, and this wasn't one we picked.
A lot of the theory from philosophers that I learned was interesting, but I failed to see how it applied directly to my life.
He breaks down what is happening in those situations, and gives the reader tools to use in their everyday life to communicate more effectively.
Still, it doesn't read as a self-help book.
For that reason, it is easy to apply the topics covered to the situations we find ourselves in constantly.
This book gave me some wonderful pearls of wisdom and functional models to improve the way I communicate.
The book seemed to digress a bit in the last third or so into more sociological topics.
And for a while I was left thinking that the book was losing its focus a bit.
But eventually the author tied those ideas that were floating away back into the topic of the book by being clearer about the fact that he was giving examples of what can happen in society when less than appropriate communication models are used in the wrong way.I would definitely recommend this book.
Since I was already aware of many of the points he made and subsequently repeated throughout the book, I found it to be a bit boring.
The very last chapters regarding language and advertising were the most appealing and interesting to me, and other readers might appreciate them as well, especially given the current interest in marketing thanks to Mad Men. For someone who has never really considered how language, thought and action are related or connected to each other, this is a good, clear introduction to the subject.
For everyone else, skip ahead to the last couple of chapters and see if it tickles your fancy.
