https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/20448515-bared-to-you
Possible spoilers and definitely NSFW (unless your workplace is made of awesome).  Oh, my god, you guys, this book! Oh, my god...I went into this thinking it was going to be completely and totally lame. Another Fifty Shades of Moronic Writing. Another horrifying testament to the standards which modern writers are apparently held. And do you know what? It WAS. Buuuut....for the most part, I had a good time. How? By laughing uncontrollably at nearly every sex scene (and believe me, there are many
There is seriously a point where Eva tells the reader how in love she is with New York because it's so different from her hometown of San Diego with all the people and activity and sights and sounds (I'm really not kidding).
Things picked up a little bit when Eva first met Gideon, only because the writing in that scene was so ludicrous.
I still don't find this book hot.]At one point, Gideon says he feels a desire to "mark" Eva like she's his property...
Okay, with roughly 100 pages to go, I think I've read enough.
I just couldn't finish this book and find myself very disappointed that Ms. Day created her own story based on the wildly popular E.L. James book, "Fifty Shades of Grey." Sure, Christian Grey is now, "Gideon Cross" (I'm not a rocket scientist, but I figured out the initial exhange - along with changing "Ana" to "Eva.") But here's where I'm baffled: Ms. Day is actually a good writer.
There's a reason I read as many pages as I did.
Because of that fact, with each turn of the page, my heart sank for her.
Without going into the meat of this story, if you've read FSOG, you essentially already know it.
Sadly, I found it disturbing and only gave it a 1-star review.)The major similarities:  --hero is a young (late 20's), gorgeous, brilliant zillionaire business mogul who sports non-stop erections and has sex on the brain 24/7--hero has a controlling and obsessive desire for the heroine, including a jealous streak that is off-the-charts--hero a has a dark and tortured soul that shapes his very world, brought on by years of abuse as a child--hero maintains a platonic relationship with his past sexual partners, which drives a major wedge with the heroine--HOT, HOT, HOT sex scenesThe major differences:-- Gideon isn’t a predator.
Gideon was a damaged soul, and the relationship between him and Eva often felt like a co-dependent mess and not a true romance.
It was the perfect blend of heart warming,  HOTNESS , and seriously tortured Alpha hero (and heroine).The story is told from the perspective of Eva Hammel, a 24 year old girl who comes from money but wants to make it on her own in the world.
He is tortured, passionate, controlling, but isn't afraid to admit he f*cked up, tender, possessive,  gorgeous , absolutely and utterly in LOVE with his girl...
There's a learning curve." There are a lot of wonderful book couples out there but the thing that made me just LOVE this book was how  fuctional  Gideon and Eva were.
The fact that Cross could possibly become this billionaire business tycoon at twenty-eight, negotiating through all the pain and problems of childhood sexual abuse, is beyond ridiculous.Besides the lack of realism...The romanceIf a novel is categorised as a romance that’s what I want to feel.
The connection, the relationship between the hero and heroine, regardless of the setting, the number or type of sex scenes, the time period or sub-genre.
A billionaire businessman with a history of childhood sexual abuse, who's into control, and a dominant.Other issuesBriefly, some of the other issues I had with this novel.
Well to stop her from leaving,Gideon does exactly that.Still,at night when Gideon has another of his terrifying,somehow sexually related nightmare(it might be that he too was a victim of sexual abuse),Eva asks him to tell her about that.He tries to turn the topic and....she leaves.This time Gideon lets her go.Eva too does not approach him.First,she thinks to herself(feeling hurt)--"He does not want to share his past with me.Well,that's a deal breaker for me." When Gideon does not approach her,she thinks(getting very,very hurt) "Maybe he does not want me because of MY PAST!!"Gideon thinks-"She must be disgusted because of that violent,sexual nightmare.She has not tried to approach me.I'll try and let her go.."Really---It became ridiculous after sometime.Well it goes on and on and on like this...one amazingly stupid plot after another.So the basic storyline of the book is--Something occurs to f*** up their relationship.Eva runs,Gideon comes after her and they have sex and make up and then something else occurs,Eva runs,........By the end I was literally banging my head!Well that's all....for now!!
Gideon Cross is a 28-year old billionaire who seems to own half of Manhattan.I have to admit to being puzzled by the choice of age of the characters, both in this novel and in 50 Shades, until I realized that there is no way the litany of contrived conflicts in the plot would work with even marginally mature grown-ups.
But sadly, this novel has used what might have been a very credible and almost insurmountable internal conflict and commoditized it, much like the bodies, the wardrobes, the interior décor and the characters.Perhaps I'm just not the right sort of woman to read these types of books.
My biggest issues were being unable to connect with Gideon at all, and I didn't find that the characters ever came alive.
I never felt that the book explained what made Eva so different in Gideon's eyes or why he had an immediate obsession with her.
I don't mind a steamy read -- but I have to be emotionally connected to a story in order to appreciate it, and with this book, I just wasn't.
I know there is a sequel, which obviously will explain more of Gideon's character, but I just hate finishing an entire book feeling as though I don't know one of the lead characters.
It not only applies to the sexual nature of the book, but how Eva and Gideon give of themselves to one each other in body, mind, heart and soul.
The two of them are insatiable, especially Gideon, who takes it to a level with Eva that leaves her completely undone.
I enjoyed Fifty Shades of Grey, but I loved Bared to You. There is no doubt that EL James is a gifted author, but Sylvia Day is a talented, skilled writer and has written an exceptional book.
Español - EnglishEva Tramel, rubia, latina, 24 años, nueva en la ciudad de NY.Gideon Cross, moreno, ojos azules, 28 años, dueño de medio NY (!?!)Hermosos y perfectos los dos, pero ambos esconden pasados abusivos.
Cuando se conocen tienen al instante la sensación de pertenencia, pero por el pasado de ambos no será nada fácil.
Hot, passionate and totally addictive read. The chemistry between Eva and Gideon, explodes on the page. They are made for each other. They're not perfect, as they have their own issues to deal with. But as they work themselves through it, you'll be taken on an emotional ride like no other. Wow, what a ride!Gideon If you want a great story with a lot of heat, you can't go wrong with this book. Loved it!
It is later revealed in the book that Gideon is also a childhood sexual abuse survivor.
The two must find a way to heal each other in order to move on from their pasts and establish a healthy romantic relationship.I used to love reading books about hot men who are playboys, but if I'm being honest, it now bores me because this kind of story is being repeated all the time.I've read 'This Man,' 'Up in the Air,' and 'Fifty Shades of Grey,' and most of the concept in these books/series is sex, and I think after reading this book twice, I've had enough of reading erotica.
When I'm reviewing a book I want to be able to write about my feelings.
I want to be honest, and a review should always reflect my emotions why I didn't like a book.
And that's all right--that's the beauty of books.Bared to You did not work at all for me for numerous reasons.
Funny thing is while reading Bared to You I never got the Fifty vibes.
Bared to You is a different book but I didn't like it all the same.
Personally, I think the book benefits in a major way of the fact that many readers have rec'd it to Fifty devotees.
Had I not read it right on the heels of the Fifty Shades trilogy, I might have enjoyed it more, and one look at the ratings and you’ll know that I’m in the minority when it comes to how I feel about this story.
Unfortunately, I found Bared to You to be so similar to Fifty Shades of Grey that rather than enjoy this story, I kept being distracted and annoyed by the similarities.The bottom line: The most disappointing part of this story is that I know what Sylvia Day is capable of, and it's better than this.
Well, it's the same story, just not 'better.' Breakdown:Originality - 1Writing - 4Sex - 3Hero - 3Heroine - 2Overall - 2.6 rounded to 3 stars
That said, what cajones of this author to deal with such issues.Eva Trammell is an extremely jealous woman who has abuse issues and finds herself deeply, sexually attracted to Gideon Cross in an elemental and, purely, raw way.
But homegirl doesn't hold out long, and soon Eva and Cross are going at it.But wait, not to forget that in some way (which, annoyingly, is never revealed) Gideon is as much a survivor of raw abuse as Eva, and his trauma affects him in his sleep, which makes it dangerous for Eva to sleep with him.
I loved the way he kissed me, as if he had to, as if he’d go crazy if he didn’t and had nearly waited too long.An incredibly INTENSE, Emotional, Palpable, Riviting, Erotic read that I devoured. "I want there to be happily-ever-afters for the f*cked-up crowd. Show me the way, Eva honey. Make me believe."Yes, please Ms. Day! I need that for this couple! Coming October 2012 is the second installment and I can hardly wait.Deeper in You
Re-read it recently and couldn't believe that this was one of my favorites 2 years ago.
This book was amazing~Highly recommended for fans of Fifty as it reads like an homage to the best of that series except it is very well written.
You know(?), right before you proceeded to read the book anyway then wrote a thousand word diatribe regarding all the things you disliked about it.So let me be clear: My warning is for the readers who made the decision to read the Fifty series based on 5-star reviews and popularity who moved out of their genre, taste or reading level to do that.
The day before she starts her new job, she stops by the office and literally crashes into Gideon Cross, who at 28-years old, is a billionaire business mogul, owner of the building she works in and the most gorgeous man Eva has ever laid eyes on.
Eva has self-esteem issues mostly due to a sexual abuse history and Gideon, is battling demons of his own though it’s unclear exactly what kind.
Eva works hard at not running when things become difficult and admits to being very jealous and possessive and even uses it to try to warn Gideon away in the beginning.
I've got so many young, hot, gazillionaire dominants, wussy, clumsy "oh I'm not beautiful" heroines, messed up roommates (male, female, straight and otherwise) fucked up parents, traumatic childhoods, impossibly successful careers, spankings, cunnilingus, drenched slits, beautiful cocks, and endless bouts of shower sex running around in my head I can't keep ANY of these fucking books straight anymore.The biggest thing this subgenre had going for it, and the reason I was sure it would eventually go the way of other "of the moment" books, was that they are all being written by unknown first-time authors.
★★★★★! Bared to you (book 1). The beginning of Gideon’s and Eva’s epic, spellbinding & addictive story with suspense, challenges, self-discovery and their intense dysfunctional love!   “There were thousands of women in New York alone who could replace me in his life, but there was only one Gideon Cross.”   Best experienced, The Crossfire series is Gideon’s and Eva’s epic love story, both broken, flawed and co-dependent and yet so determined and relentless for their elusive happily-ever aft
The beginning of Gideon’s and Eva’s epic, spellbinding & addictive story with suspense, challenges, self-discovery and their intense dysfunctional love!
Best experienced, The Crossfire series is Gideon’s and Eva’s epic love story, both broken, flawed and co-dependent and yet so determined and relentless for their elusive happily-ever after.
It’s their journey of self-discovery and fulfillment and about pushing all limits and surrendering it all for love.Books in the Crossfire series must be read in order:Book 1: Bared to YouBook 2: Reflected in YouBook 3: Entwined with YouBook 4: Captivated by YouBook 5: One with YouBared to you (book 1), follows Gideon and Eva from their first meeting.
DNFed half way through. When the hero takes the heroine to his love shack hotel room filled with love toys where he's had many women in the past, I decided this book wasn't for me. There's no emotional connection between the hero and heroine, just sex and more sex.Also the writing seems disjointed and stilted at times. Had a hard time following.Seems way too much like Fifty Shades and makes me think the author jumped on the Fifty Shades bandwagon.
I'm deducting the star I added for the erotic encounter that I mistakenly thought was original because I've just read the scene in Fifty Shades Darker that, um, "inspired" Ms Day the copycat.
Now that I have read Fifty Shades of Grey I'm even more unimpressed with Sylvia Day's book.
Their love is the greatest most neediest emo love ever, so special that Gideon can't even say "I love you" because it's just not enough to convey the depth of his all-consuming passion.
Very hot and imaginative so I tacked on the extra star for a sex scene I won't soon forget.I haven't read 50 and don't plan to.
There are a handful of authors that can get a 5 part series commitment from me (here's looking at you Leigh Bardugo;Brandon Sanderson; S. T. Abby), sadly, Sylvia Day is not one of them. Ergo, I'm DNFing this baby.Gideon and Eva are the epitome of everything I dislike about rich angsty book characters. Shallow and immature with no redeeming factors. Aaaannd, I'm out
❝I've always seen you, angel. From the moment you found me, I’ve seen nothing but you.❞  Rating: ★ ★ ★ Bared to You was a little beyond the comfort zone of what I usually read but surprisingly I found myself actually enjoying this. I know Bared to You is closely compared to Fifty Shades of Grey, and even I was having some sort of deja vu at first because of how similar these two book were to each other. But I found that Bared to You was a whole different level better than Fifty Shades.For one,
I know Bared to You is closely compared to Fifty Shades of Grey, and even I was having some sort of deja vu at first because of how similar these two book were to each other.
But I found that Bared to You was a whole different level better than Fifty Shades.For one, Gideon Cross is 100 times more Mr. Dangerous and Sexy than Christian Grey.
Years after I've read Fifty Shades, I can even say that Christian Grey isn't even hot, sexy, handsome, or any of the above.
Even though I think that Gideon was dangerously sexy, he still had things going on about him that irked me.POSSESSIVENESS and STALKER TENDENCIES.
This is approximately 1000 times better than That Other Book! Similar themes, but with better characters, better writing, better plotting, better sex, and minus the degradation.
The only thing you will do is compare the two books the entire time and convince yourself (and try to convince everyone else) why 50 shades is better.DO NOT read this book if you......thought 50 Shades was just NOT your type of erotica/story.
This book is very similar to 50 Shades in respects to the erotica/story.READ this book if you......thought 50 Shades was overall okay but had poor writing.READ this book if you......You liked 50 shades but only because of the sex scenes.
READ this book if you......Are curious about this type of erotica but never read 50 Shades.
From the moment you found me, I’ve seen nothing but you.(Gideon to Eva in "Bared to You")I liked it!
And the lead characters presented a mature and knowledgeable persona.
Gideon and Eva certainly provide just that and wonderfully so.
Although both characters are strong-willed and intelligent, as well as beautiful individuals, they each carry heavy burdens with troubled pasts.
This is my first Sylvia Day book but it certainly won’t be my last!
I wasn’t quite ready for the cliffhanger ending that left this reader begging for more.
And October is a long way off before we get another peek at Gideon and Eva.
3,5 starsBared to You is the first book in the Crossfire Series by Sylvia Day.   Inky black hair framed a breathtaking face His bone structure would make a sculptor weep with joy, while a finely etched mouth, a blade of a nose and intensely blue eyes made him savagely gorgeous."Are you alright?"His voice was cultured and smooth, with a rasp that made my stomach flutter. It brought sex to mind. Extraordinary sex. I thought for a moment he might make me orgasm just by talking long enough.    "Are
This book introduces us to Gideon and Eva's world, filled with some interesting secondary characters, set in magical Manhattan.Two very damaged people, both trying to recover from a brutal childhood, who are unable to resist the intense attraction they feel for the very first moment they meet.Their romance is intense, emotional and sexually charged...I felt unsure at times whether I liked this book or not.
Yes, there were some things I loved but then there were other things that drove me up the wall....like...is it just me .....but everyone is rich, beautiful, damaged.....are there any normal people in Gideon and Eva's life I wonder?????And then - Gideon!!!
A hopelessly flawed hero, Gideon, and heroine, Eva, enter into a relationship eclipsed by false starts, petty jealousies, misunderstandings, and bruised trust.
The story was beautifully written from Eva's POV but the angst of both characters and their associates was palpable throughout the entire book.
In Bared to You, Eva's (view spoiler)[ sexual abuse from her stepbrother is revealed.
Cary is also so drastically flawed emotionally and sexually that you root for him and Trey to make it and are sadly disappointed when Cary's bi-insatiability causes them to break up.
(hide spoiler)]Ms. Day definitely wrote a highly emotionally charged story.
