https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/810041.Exploits_of_the_Chalet_Girls
Nonetheless, revisiting it this time gave me an appreciation of even Brent-Dyer's filler novels, which remain rich with character and detail, told in so charmingly descriptive a way.This winter term in the annals of the Chalet School is actually unusual because, for one thing, winter doesn't start until halfway through the book.
Reading the book and series as an adult is almost astonishing: in a world so rife with religious and political tension, Brent-Dyer seems to have picked apart these notions and distilled them to the core ideas of love and tolerance for her readers.
She takes her group off to Das Pferd and then arrives with Joey five minutes later having just walked up the mountain).The weather is also a strong character in this book, being meltingly hot into the start of November, then a massive thunderstorm, and then snow - a temperature drop of around 20 degrees in less than 48 hours.
Never my favourite bit of a Chalet book, this time it's longer than ever and described almost line by line.
But don't let that put you off; in all other respects, it's a Top Chalet.
Another re-read, and another I didn't recognise terribly much of.
It was a bit early in the series for the peak of my interest.
A good one, very good to begin, but not the best - the ending brought it down a bit for me.
She is SO uppity and snooty and rude and it was hilarious to read.
Thekla looked down on everyone in the rudest of all possible ways, and I admit I was totally hoping she'd stay that way and not become a good little schoolgirl like all the rest.
(Probable sequel to her tale: Thekla Joins the Nazi Party.)
In the 9th book, we are introduced to Thekla, a Prussian girl who considers herself to be superior to many of the other girls at the school (given that they are the "daughters of shopkeepers").
Most of the story revolves around Thekla's dreadfulness, although we have the usual mishaps (Evadne blows up the science lab, Cornelia falls down a pit).
After an accident at the staff party, Thekla has a talking to and becomes more resigned to her position at the school - she's even given a minor part in the Christmas play - but we're left to wonder how long this will last.
Superior German student Thekla may be the most unpleasant but also one of the most interesting characters in the whole Chalet School series. Cornelia and Evadne also have to deal with adjusting to higher expectations of them in the fifth form. Joeye is head girl, and her triumvirate of friends, loyal Frieda, steady Marie, and the whiny Simone are all prefects. Brent-Dyer does a great job with anti-heroines--they're almost always more entertaining than the good girls (Joey, Mary Lou, Len). Spoiler: Too bad she disposes of Thekla too quickly.
Ninth in the lengthy Chalet School series. A new and rather snooty girl called Thekla arrives and creates a lot of problems since she doesn't want to mix with many of the girls. However, she appears to become gradually more accepting (and nicer) without a lot happening. Possibly some significant sections were removed in the paperback version. Other than that it's a fairly run-of-the-mill book, slightly better than average but with nothing that stands out. Three and a half stars, really.
Another lovely story. There seems to be a theme developing of horrible girls joining the school and becoming reformed characters, although we didn't get to see Thekla's full transformation here. Loved the clock episode.
This book contains some great moments and some less great moments. It explores Joey growing up, others growing up or learning lessons and introduces Thelka. This allows Elinor to explore the class situation and talk about Germany at the time.A good book, not my favourite but close to.
I love this series. And this book does not disappoint.
Interesting incidents of life in Chalet school that begins a new session with new girl who joins trying to do things that are not liked to the school rules and many more.
