https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2873.The_Virgin_Blue
The story of the 1500 Isabelle was very interesting, although could have been developed a little more, I think.
Tired, because it was so odd and unbelievable, and I'd really stopped caring for Ella, the modern-day main character.I loved the idea of what was happening -- the same land, same family, a modern day version of the character trying to solve a puzzle or a mystery of what had happened to her long-ago counterpart.
But I think the author had a great idea and didn't know how to write the story around it, so the rest was weak.
Meni lično je ovo najdraža Trejsina knjiga... Inače nisam naročiti ljubitelj njenih romana...
Well, maybe not AS good, since The Virgin Blue was her first book and I was prepared to give her some wriggle room for growth and learning and so on.Let me say that I think the book's premise is very strong, and I really loved the 'flashbacks' to Isabella.
In my opinion, these segments were strong and interesting and well-written.Where the book fell down was with Ella, the modern voice.
The breakdown in the relationship with her husband simply did not get conveyed nearly enough, and I ended up feeling badly for Rick instead of seeing Ella's side.
No-no-no.Ma che è ‘sta roba?Dove è la mia Chevalier?Stavolta è tutto bocciato.
- L’Alternarsi di passato e presente mi ha infastidito: appena mi interessavo a quello che stava accadendo cambiavano i soggetti.
- Collegamenti tra passato e presente veramente fatui.- Scene inutili di protagoniste americane poco accattivanti che bighellonano per cittadine francesi e attirano la maldicenza della gente perché Americans.
- Violenza gratuità nei confronti di donne e bambini - nei capitoli del “passato”.
Di solito non mi danno fastidio così tanto, ma qui la narrazione è così veloce che l’iterazione di determinati temi è urticante.
Dove sei, Chevalier?
I have read two other novels by this author, "Girl with a Pearl Earring" and "The Lady and the Unicorn", and have enjoyed both very much.
This author has a style that appeals to me, simple and straightfoward but with a beauty of its own in the way she captures the characters that compose her stories.Although I liked "The Virgin Blue", reading it in two days, I ended up fairly confused as to what had happened and why in some particular occasions.
I couldn't understand the character's motivations, perhaps because I did not fully compreend the historical background in which part of it took place and what beliefs the people held.
And as the story progressed, became more intense and began revealing the secrets shared by the two main characters, the chapters became shorter and shorter, the structure of the chapters began to change, which increased the pace set early on.
My only wish is that there had been more follow through with a few revelations that Ella (our main character from the modern age) discovered about her ancestors.
Tracy never says for sure) And I wish there had been more between Ella and Susanne her cousin from Switzerland; they shared the family secret but their relationship ended too quickly for me.
I guess the judgmental and nosy part is universal in small towns.
There was good pacing with new story lines developing through the whole book, leading up to what I found to be rather a surprise ending.
My overall opinion of this book is that it would be a good choice for someone thinking of dipping a toe into the historical fiction genre.
I feel like it has a faster pace and less background historical information than some I have read, which I take away .5 star for, but would make it a good foray into the genre for someone new to historical fiction.
Definitely not as good as Girl with a Pearl Earring. I was really enjoying the first two-thirds of the book, but I didn't like the direction it took after that. There are two parallel stories happening and the modern one is less believable than the one that takes places four hundred years ago. I liked the character Isabelle from the 1500's much better than Ella from modern day. I'll still read more by Chevalier. She has a nice style of writing that totally sucks me in.
Surprisingly, this was somewhat a book about a mystery, but it did get me thinking quite a bit, particularly about memories and how they are stored in the brain.
The story itself was very good, and I enjoyed the language the author used, her use of imagery and the way she described Ella's and Isabelle's feelings.
What I did not appreciate was the way the book ended.
I understand the agenda of an author to leave the reader to make up some bit of their own when tying up loose ends, but I think this author left too much to the imagination.
There are 2 main characters in this book--both women, but living centuries apart.
Ella, the present-day character, is an American ex-pat living in France with her husband, and Isabelle is her distant ancestor living in France during the time of the Huguenots.
My main problem with the novel is that Ella is just plain annoying--selfish, self-centered and self-absorbed.
But boy, does she make it hard.In the end, I finished the novel b/c I was curious about what happened to Isabelle.
So obviously this book wasn't bad enough to stop reading altogether but also not good enough to recommend to anyone.
The interesting thing to me was that the story took place at two different times in history but in the same geographic area.
The first chapter introduces us to Isabelle, a girl who lives in France in the 1600s during a religious upheaval.
Over the course of the novel Ella searches out her family history and finds that her family originated near where she now lives.
I highly recommend this book to anyone who is interested in historical fiction and world literature.
I would suggest that someone who does not know European religious history well read the Historical Note at the end before beginning the story though.
Era da tempo che non mi capitava di approcciarmi ad una lettura tanto emozionante, mi sono trovata ad amare, piangere, soffrire, sperare ed arrabbiarmi, insieme a tutti i protagonisti della storia, e credo che ogni libro dovrebbe portare il lettore a provare questo tipo di empatia così profonda.
L'intera narrazione è pervasa da un senso profondo di "speranzosa malinconia", che mi ha portata ad appassionarmi alla lettura al punto da non voler abbandonare il libro neanche per un secondo.
Credo che sia il libro perfetto per chi, come me, desidera lentamente avvicinarsi al genere storico senza approcciarsi immediatamente a qualcosa di troppo pesante.
I did like the way the author showed how it was difficult to adjust to life in small town France.
But the character herself, I didn't much care for.The way the magical elements were woven into the story also didn't make sense to me.
I've read a lot of books with magical elements to them so that as a plot device or aspect of the story doesn't bother me.
I ended up confused and had to read back a few pages to get the characters straight.Once again, highly disappointing since I love the idea behind it.
Ella Turner moves to France with her husband Rick for his job.
She has nothing to do with her days (she was a midwife in the U.S., but cannot yet practice in France) and begins researching her family history.
In nearly every other chapter we read of Isabella, who lived 400 years earlier.
Forced to give up her beliefs in the Catholic church and the Virgin Mary as well as her skill in midwifery, she lives with her husband's family, the Tourniers.
I'm definitely putting her other book Falling Angels on my to-read shelf.
I really loved this book in a lot of ways, but the sense of inevitability, that feeling of descending tragedy that cannot be averted, was so strong and, of course, correct.
We were looking at events that had already occurred and those could not be changed.
But when we were experiencing them in a present tense I really wished that Isabelle could have found a way out of the life and tragedies that were here destiny, especially for Marie.
I guess I was so caught up in the destiny of the relationship.
I wanted to kill Hannah and Etienne and if I was Isabelle I may have.
I was fascinated with the redhead history (being one myself) and had never heard of Mary as a redhead before!
The whole redhead as witch thing is pretty common and always makes me kind of smile...although I guess I hadn't realized it had pushed so far south (it is an old but common belief in northern and eastern Europe.I didn't get 'sucked in' to the book as quickly as I did "Girl with The Pearl Earring"--with Virgin Blue the last third of the book was unputdownable for me whereas I was immediately hooked in Girl--but still Chevalier is a great storyteller, well worth the read.
I really enjoyed the split narrative (two female narrators, one in the 16th century, the other in the present day), but I wanted more closure than the ending ultimately provided. I'm tired of concluding in a state of liminal possibility.
This kinda of has a stereotypical romance novel feel to it- married women meets French man, and they have an affair and that sort of thing. But there is another story besides this one that is really interesting, about her ancestor during medieval times. It follows her as she gets married and raises a family, and the issues she must deal with in her community and home during a time where social rules were changing under religious turmoil. I enjoyed it.
S obzirom na to da je ovo prvi Trejsin roman, treba joj oprostiti neke propuste i klišee, kao i slabe delove. Sve u svemu, nakon ponovnog čitanja, ovo ostaje knjiga koju mnogo volim i to zbog motiva koji me uvek privlače - porodične tajne, pronalaženje predaka, povezanost dve žene kroz vreme i prostor, kao i pokušaj da se odgovori šta je to što nas "tera" da volimo nekoga, a šta nas posle nekog vremena zažulja.
Unfortunatley, not a favorite of mine from this author. I usually really enjoy reading her books but this one, while it started out strong, just came together too quickly at the end and I was left very confused. It was also a bit heavy on the romance for my tastes. The early storyline was interesting and I enjoyed learning about French history but the second storyline was not engaging and felt a bit too false, it didn't really ring true for me.
Karena gerakan memprotes kebijakan gereja (katolik) itulah maka aelanjutnya Luther dan pengikutnya dinamakan Protestant.Raja Henry VIII dari Inggris pertama kali tidak setuju dengan gerakan Luther.
Pembunuhan massal Huguenot tersebut dikenal dengan Massacre of Saint Bartholomew’s Day. Dinamakan dengan istilah Saint Bartholomeuw Days, karena gereja Katolik untuk memberi penghormatan khusus pada orang-orang suci seperti Saint Bartholomeuw yang jatuh setiap tanggal 24 Agustus.
Dubois adalah saksi mata peristiwa iniSetelah lebih 30 tahun pertikaian antara Huguenot dan Katolik, akhirnya pada tahun 1598 dikeluarkan Dekrit Nantes yang dikeluarkan oleh Raja Henry IV (13 December 1553 – 14 May 1610).
This first in a long line of novels by an extraordinarily inventive and resourceful storyteller visits France of now and 400 years ago.
In one story, set in modern day, American Ella Turner is a midwife studying for re-licensing after relocating with her husband to France.
The other story is that of Isabelle du Moulin, a French Protestant woman who marries into the Tournier family and who escapes persecution by the Catholics by fleeing into Switzerland.
I'd like very much to cut the Epilogue out of every edition and have the uneasy thought of Isabelle's ending jar in the reader's mind with the happy satisfaction of Ella's story.
Dopo le persecuzioni seguite alla Notte di massacro di San Bartolomeo, incinta, prenderà la via della fuga con il compagno – il giovane Tournier- trovando asilo in un remoto villaggio svizzero, che le riserverà tuttavia un futuro cupo e pieno di sofferenze.Un destino, quello della giovane Isabelle, che verrà riportato alla luce –secoli dopo- da Ella Turner, l'americana perseguitata da uno strano sogno in cui le appare una veste azzurra e che la porta a trasferirsi nel Sud della Francia.
The other part of the story is about Ella, a modern day woman who is researching the mystery behind her family ancestry after a move to France.In essence, this is partly a historical tale and partly a mystery.I loved the historical story.
The bits of historical detail were interesting but not so much that I felt as if I were reading a text book.
This part of the story really came to life for me.The modern day story (aside from the mystery/research angle) was a bit cliche.
There were times I felt a connection with Ella and times when I just wanted to smack her around.
I believe that Tracy Chevalier is a talented writer (story teller) because of her characters, subjects, and environments, in which she places those characters.
She may have lots of ideas for a story, but then they all meld together to make something wonderful, like this book.
I wanted to go to Poland after reading this book and research/search about my Polish family history - like Ella does in France, in this story.
The results of Ella's search seem very lucky and satisfying, which I like in stories of this nature.
I'm starting to realize that Chevalier is possibly one of my favorites writers.
Before penning her bestselling novel Girl with a Pearl Earring, Tracy Chevalier wrote The Virgin Blue, the mesmerizing story of two women living in France 400 years apart.
It was impossible not to fall in love with France while reading The Virgin Blue.
The Virgin Blue is possibly the best book that I've read this year.
Don't let yourself be distracted by reviews that it is not as good as Girl with a Pearl Earring - The Virgin Blue is every bit as good as some of the best historical fiction out there.
Her books, Girl with a Pearl Earring and Falling Angels were terrific.
This book was good and I did finish it, but it fell short compared to her others.
I enjoyed the story of Isabelle du Moulin more so than Ella Turner's story.
Isabelle is a tragic heroine and I wanted to learn more about her and her situation.
Ella's story, while less tragic certainly, entertained me but did not grasp me.
I still felt at a bit of a loss as to Isabelle's life and her subsequent demise.
I would recommend her other books to this one.
Two women face life-changing challenges in Tracy Chevalier's "The Virgin Blue." Isabelle, whose hair changes color to auburn, the supposed color of the Virgin Mary's hair, becomes La Rouse during the time of the Reformation and watches as her community turns away from the Virgin's veneration.
Ella is at first enthusiastic about the town but she is surprised at behavior of its citizens and so, while brushing up on her French with hopes of becoming a midwife, she is soon involved in looking into her family history.
Two women both facing challenges of culture, perception and belief.
As Chevalier weaves their two stories together, it creates a full, rich tale of a family history.
dia menemukan kebetulan-kebetulan yang aneh yang membawanya sampai ke Swiss, dimana leluhurnya dulu pindah ke sana karena terjadi perang agama (abad ke-16).di kota kecil ini Ella bertemua dengan seorang pustakawan yang juga seorang peneliti - Jean Paul - yang membantunya menyelidiki usaha Ella tentang leluhurnya.dari sini perkawinan Ella menjadi terancam.lalu apa hubungan Ella dengan mimpi tersebut dan juga dengan La Rousse - wanita berambut merah dan kaitannya dengan Sang Perawan?
bersetting di kota-kota kecil Perancis dan Swiss, dari abad 16 sampai abad modern.------------------------------------------------------------After got moved to a small old city in France with her husband, Ella Tournier has same successive dreams of blue color – the very beautiful blue color, could not be described, but just felt such a combination of sorrow and tranquility.
