https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/418054.The_Nature_of_Things
The ButterflyWhen the sugar prepared in the stem rises to the bottom of the flower, like a badly washed cup - a great event takes place on the ground where the butterflies suddenly take off.Because each caterpillar had it's head blinded and blackened, and it's torso shrunk by the veritable explosion from which its symmetrical wings flamed -From then on the erratic butterfly no longer alights except by chance of route, or just about.A flying match, it's flame is not contagious.
Furthermore, it arrives too late and can only acknowledge the flowers' blooming.
The Voice of Things contains a number of texts by Francis Ponge, including the complete text of  Taking the Side of Things ; selections from  Methods ,  Pieces ,  Lyres , and  The Prairie ; and a previously unpublished poem entitled "This Is Why I Have Lived"...From  Taking the Side of Things ...On occasion night revives an unusual plant whose glow rearranging furnished rooms into masses of shadow.Its leaf of gold stands impassive in the hollow of a little alabaster column on a very black pedice
And when I say convinced, I mean if not of some truth, then at least of the fragility of my own opinion.
His mother, a rock (whom he resembles), married a field of flowers (a painter who, I have been told, was the finest Swiss exponent of the Impressionist school); she had three sons, like Switzerland herself: a rock and two pines.It was thus in the most ordinary way that Alberto, born into an age of objets d'art, was determined to become an an artist; he was sent to the Academy.

instead of all that, for some unknown reason I wish that man carved out a sort of niche or shell to his own measure, an object very different from the mollusk form yet similarly proportioned (native African huts are quite satisfying in that respect); I wish that man applied himself through the ages to creating a shelter not much larger than his body, one involving all his imagination and reasoning; that he put his genius to work on appropriate scale rather than disproportion-- or at the very least that his genius recognized the contours of the body that sustains it.And I do not even admire those who, like the Pharaohs, have monuments to a single man erected by a multitude.
J'ai RIEN compris.
Ma chi è veramente Ponge?
E cosa aspira a trasmettere un titoletto così poco accattivante?La risposta alla prima delle due domande ambirà forse ad essere banale: Ponge è un poeta: ma davvero?; la seconda infine, illuminante sotto molti aspetti si rivelerà non appena si inumidirà la punta del naso fra le pagine di questo libricino.
In barba ai poeti metafisici, di cui, probabilmente, Ponge fu il barbiere, questa raccolta rivolge tutta la propria attenzione alle piccole cose, all'intrinseca mangia della materia disgregante: un'arancia, un mollusco, una porta d'ingresso; le more, una cassetta di legno, quant'altro ancora.
Reading Ponge's Soap many years ago turned me into a lifelong fan. Lee Fahnestock's translation of his first book seems both fluid and graceful.
Moss rum!
Ponge's poetry (though he would object to be calling a poet: he says something like he is simply expelling poetic magma) is an intellectualization and poeticization of the mundane and quotidian.
Perhaps since Ponge is averse to being called a poet, we can call these observations.
There is I think one "traditional" poem in the book and it is about a prairie - it's pretty good!
Broken up in between these poetic observations are Ponge's own thoughts on things.
I think the "poetry" (scare quotes in honor of Ponge) worth reading just because of how he makes crates and rains interesting to read about.
Ponge's observations written down in poetic prose is well worth attention. The Snail. The Oyster, and Water are some of my favorite. I liked this translation a lot (though to be fair, I have not read others). Reading Ponge is a great way to help your brain think out of the box a bit, by guiding you to look at everyday objects both organic and non-organic in detail and from various vantage points. Ponge is not something that you necessarily read straight through insomuch as you dine on his works over a period of time.
Meer prozadichters, meer beter. Ponge schrijft en beschrijft alledaagse voorwerpen, maar op een bijna metafysisch niveau. Normale zaken krijgen nieuwe lagen en dat is gaaf om te lezen. Maar... WAT IS DAT NOU DAT ALLE DICHTERS DIE IK LEES HET WOORD "NEGER" GEBRUIKEN? Serieus (Saint-John Perse, Lundkvist, Ponge), wat is dat? Het lijkt bijna alsof ik ze er op uitzoek.
"They say that amputees and disabled people see their faculties develop prodigiously; so it is with plants. Their immobility produces their perfection, their depth, their beautiful ornaments, their rich fruits"

The prose poems are clusters of dynamic images that invite us to explore with our hearts and imagination multidimensional meanings.
Such a captivating reading!Fire"Fire has a system: first all the flames move in one direction…(One can only compare the gait of fire to that of an animal; it must first leave one place before occupying another; it moves like an amoeba and a giraffe at the same time, its neck lurching, its foot dragging)…Then, while the substances consumed with method collapse, the escaping gasses are subsequently transformed into one long flight of butterflies."

The last time I read Le parti pris des choses in another translation (maybe eight years ago), I was unhappy with it.
Some parts were engaging and clear, but others seemed unnecessarily tiresome.—couldn’t tell if this was my problem, the poet’s, or the translator’s.
This new translation by Joshua Corey and Jean-Luc Garneau has cleared that up for me: definitely not the poet's problem.
Every once in a while, amidst generally accomplished writing, something jumps out and grabs onto part of you perhaps never vociferated or thought long dead. A testament to literary diligence and, like most anthologies (thought perhaps more distilled), echoes the elations and disappointments, dynamics of sensation, better than any consistent, preconceived narrative ever could.Long->short: read "The Pebble" if nothing else.
I borrowed a copy of this book from a high school teacher I had, and sadly have not found another one, but Ponge's work is fascinating. Each of the prose poems in here is devoted to a common household object, which he tries to look at in as fresh a way as possible, describing what it is not, other objects it looks like, etc. Sounds banal, but every single poem in here will surprise you with unforeseen connections. I need to track this down.
I ordered this book after seeing his works featured in the last month's edition of Poetry Magazine. Ponge's work here is rather refreshing and invites a new perspective on the ordinary objects around us. Ponge was a true visionary of the minute little detail often overlooked. I would highly recommend this.
Pure. Gorgeous. Prose poems about ordinary things that make them deeply interesting.
