https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/16234584-the-drowned-world
The world is warming due to an atmospheric erosion caused by events in the sun, and a heat-wave, accompanied by floods, is moving slowly toward the poles.
His descriptions--of the pitiless sky, of a ghostly submerged observatory, of the flooded streets of London rife with gargantuan plants, and of a collective nightmare where iguana calls to iguana through an eternal tropical forest--remain in memory long after the book is done.Of course, for those enlightened enough to believe in global warming, this is scary stuff, and close attention to Ballard's themes make it into something even scarier.
”The solar disc was no longer a well-defined sphere, but a wide expanding ellipse that fanned out across the eastern horizon like a colossal fire-ball, its reflection turned the dead leaden surface of the lagoon into a brilliant copper shield. By noon, less than four hours away, the water would seem to burn.” Solar radiation has melted the polar ice caps, and the oceans have risen to engulf most of the major cities of Europe and America. These cities have become tropical lagoons with only the up
There is a Max Ernst painting on the wall of Beatrice’s apartment, and the longer they are there, the more the painting reminds Kerans of the real world.
I’m a fan of post-apocalyptic books, and J.G. Ballard was obsessed with the worlds that are created by the chaos of destruction.
When we are dipped in the primordial soup of a tropical lagoon, we feel the need to escape the bondages of civilization.
Kerans is intent on escaping the clutches of all that is trying to bind him and head South into the uncertainty of a new world.
He is, actually, currently under Canonization negotiations by the Crazy Cray-cray Literary Canon.Oh, this dude is inspiring.
Although the lack of dialogue, & perhaps the clichéd villain and villain's plot overall, make it no better than some of his weaker short stories*--all immersive, all absolutely extraordinary, but still.
I wholly love "Crash," "High-Rise," "Empire of the Sun" (which seems to me the most apocalyptic of all his novels, although it's set in W.W.II), and consider his complete short story collection to be one of the best of all time (its entire 1100 or so pages).
Dull plotting.Duller psychology.Shallow characters.Improbable coincidences galore.Pretty racist.And yet almost entirely saved by some great descriptive work in painting the submerged world.Worth reading, barely.
Then I read Concrete Island and Empire of the Sun and realized Ballard cannot be pigeonholed so simply.The Drowned Worldis one of his earlier novels from his apocalyptic phase.
This bit of hard sci-fi is quite well written in the book but subsequent to this exposition the novel is more concerned with the psychological impact on the main characters, particularly Dr. Robert Kerans, through whose point of view the (third person) narrative is focused.For some reason, the environment of the flooded world is causing a gradual regression or devolution on the creatures living on it.
This was my introduction to J.G. Ballard. How to best describe this book? I would call it apocalyptic realism. I thought I invented that term until I looked it up, and yes it exists. It's an apocalyptic future that I can see happening, and I imagine it very much like Ballard does here, except my version is tied to climate change and his is caused by a changing sun. Also, it has an eerie similarity to Conrad's Heart of Darkness. I'm certainly looking forward to reading more of Ballard's work.
All the bizarre behavior is the result of “being plunged back into the archaeopsychic past, uncovering the ancient taboos and drives that have been dormant for epochs” (56).Ballard’s prose is at its finest when he uses metaphor to merge the outer and inner worlds: “A more important task than mapping the harbours and lagoons of the external landscape was to chart the ghostly deltas and luminous beaches of the submerged neuronic continents” (58).This is where I went from being spellbound by the prose to being fascinated by the theories of consciousness, dreams, and memory.
Go figure.Even if you can get past that one, you will probably be tripped up by some other little problems - like there is no effort made to create plausible characters, the only woman is portrayed in a completely sexist way, the whole thing is deeply racist and nothing much happens - at great and tedious length.
Just to bore me further and further out of my skull with the utter, utter tedium of this book.If you're wondering whether to read this book, try this phrase:'an unconscious acceptance of the logic of his own devolutionary descent, the ultimate neuronic synthesis of the archaeopsychic zero'.If you yawned, or laughed or lost the will to live part way through, then please be warned that this book is chock-full of this kind of pseudo-scientific mumbo-jumbo.
Ballard wrote this dystopian novel in the early 1960s, but it is still resonant today and it deals with a drastic increase in temperature on the earth; it is set in 2145.
At the start of the book a team of scientists and military personnel are studying a series of lagoons set in jungle over what was the city of London; which is many feet below the lagoons.The main character is Robert Kerans, a biologist.
Here the impulse is to return to the jungle, the primeval home.There are links to Lord of the Flies and Robinson Crusoe and Strangman can be seen as a parody of Crusoe.
Ballard tries out the man-made theory in his next book, Drought (1964).The Drowned World introduces us to Dr. Robert Kearns, as the world heats up.
Many of these folks also seem to be dreaming similar dreams, of swamps and lagoons from ages past, connecting as Ballard has it to the Collective Unconscious, a sort of weird psycho-biological ideology.
The expanding sun and rising temperatures are driving you back down to the spinal levels into the drowned seas of the lowest layers of your unconscious, into the entirely new zone of the neuronic psyche.
Even more surprising is the fact that this is not some 21st century SF novel taking advantage of the climate change and rise-in-the-sea-level trend: Ballard wrote this in the early 1960s.This vision of a world after the apocalyptic flood would, alone, make a striking work of science fiction.
Perhaps this had better remained within the bounds of a poem or a short story and got deeper into the character’s collapsing sense of Self.This book, probably inspired by the mythical floods of Gilgamesh, Genesis and Atlantis, can be considered as the second instalment of Ballard’s post-apocalyptic “classical elements” series (from The Wind from Nowhere to The Crystal World).
J.G. Ballard's experience in a Japanese interment camp near Shanghai while in his early teens comes through in The Drowned World his first novel in the idea that the life we lead is a stage set.
Ballard and his family only ended up captured by the Japanese because they were part of the European expatriate community in Shanghai and Ballad notes in the edition of the novel I read the influence upon him of seeing the flat countryside transformed in to a great inland sea during the spring floods - the stage set of human society is subject to ecology and the environment an idea which plays out in The Drowned World but also in The Drought and maybe some of Ballard's other early novels.
Here is a description from the book:All the way down the creek, perched in the windows of the office blocks and department stores, the iguanas watched them go past, their hard frozen heads jerking stiffly… Without the reptiles, the lagoons and the creeks of office blocks half-submerged in the immense heat would have had a strange dream-like beauty, but the iguanas and basilisks brought the fantasy down to earth.
If this were not a library book and soon due, then I am afraid I may never have finished The Drowned World, which does not bode well for my reading of the second selection.This is one of the driest and strangely beautiful books I have ever read.
This is a book I could grow to love, but I am not ready to, for a few reasons.First, maybe I am missing something, some connection between the characters, but I did not care a whit about any of them.
The end of the world is nigh and the characters are traipsing around in ball gowns and eating foie gras?
Not quite as cool as James Bond, but certainly as confident in their abilities, and no less successful with the women they met.J.G. Ballard's The Drowned World comes on the heels of this trend - while one foot is routed firmly in the past, another is stretched well into the future, even beyond what a lot of contemporary science fiction writers would attempt to accomplish today.The protagonist of the piece is a geologist.The world around him has melted and become a swampy tropical ocean.
his classic protagonist is not necessarily a rational man.The Drowned World is dripping with doom.
The novel Ballard liked to pretend was his debut—The Wind from Nowhere, anyone?—depicts a world stuffed to the runnels with silt, salt water, silt and more silt.
Rich in near pornographic descriptions of bogs, croc-filled lagoons and giant lizards, this is a tough and horrendous novel, all the more so knowing this fate awaits our grandchildren.Because Ballard is always right.
Then there’s the deep stuff, like in Heart of Darkness.So that’s the offering here.
Imagine the middle point between Heart of Darkness and Waterworld.
Imagined that middle point?
The minds of the characters are, in some ways, regressing back toward the Triassic, even while their physical forms remain human.In that sense, The Drowned World raises the question—as much of its ilk in this type of science fiction do—of how much of the events in the story actually happen.
Ballard emphasizes the unreliable nature of the narrative by drawing attention to actions of Kerans' that he questions after the fact, concluding that he has no explanation for why he acted that way.Particularly, in one of the most lugubrious and haunting scenes of the book, Kerans has dived to the bottom of a lagoon to explore a deserted planetarium.
The white men lose themselves in the brutality of the primordial past, going 'native', or even beyond native, but Ballard cannot match the furious voice or psychological insights of Conrad.Ballard distinguishes himself as a competent and bold author, his style easily outdistancing his sci fi contemporaries.
His use of constant, running floods alleviates some of that problem, and there still is land, made remote not just by water, but by temperature.Generally, as temperature rises grow more extreme, they tend to affect colder regions more than warm ones.
Coastal regions always have less temperature variance, especially with the sorts of constant storms described in Ballard's book.
Η -πλημμύρα- είναι ένα μυθιστόρημα που περιγράφει μια τεράστιων διαστάσεων κλιματική αλλάγη, όπου όλη η γη είναι καλυμένη με νερό λόγω της ραγδαίας αύξησης της θερμοκρασίας.Ένα βιβλίο με πρωτότυπο για την εποχή που εκδόθηκε θέμα το οποίο δυστυχώς χαντακώνεται.Η γραφή του συγγραφέα είναι επιεικώς απαράδεκτη και επιτηδευμένη.
Ο Ballard είναι ικανός να σχηματίσει πρόταση μόονο με κοσμητικά επίθετα του τύπου..μενεξεδένιο δειλινό..ροδοδάχτυλη αυγούλα και μενεξεδένιος κwλος.
Τέλος η σεξιστική ματιά του συγγραφέα απέναντι στη μοναδική γυναίκα του βιβλίου με ξενέρωσε απίστευτα.Βιβλίο για πολλές φτυσιές.
However, if you don't mind reading under a futile-struggle-against-implacable-forces cloud then Ballard's book is well worth your time - its a skilfully told story full of vivid images brightly lit by a tyrannical, scorching sun.In our era of climate change  The Drowned World seems to be less a novel than a prediction.
The longer Kerans and others in the expedition stay in the heat and stink of the postdiluvian city the more they change, their minds and instincts slowly warping to fit the new environmental paradigm.The Drowned World is great read, and it's hard to believe that it was written in 1962.
While I totally understand why every author takes pride in their work, this book I could hardly see anything special or mesmerising about the story or especially the characters.It is set in the future where solar flares have caused global warming and the ice caps to melt and everywhere except for the two poles is too hot for humans.
Instead what I got was a boring, unexplained story on Kerans staying in the city and eventually making a trek south.
What I mean when I say unexplained is that none of the characters actions or decisions were ever explained, they just did things without much thought or consideration making them impossible for me to connect with.
I liked the basic premise of The Drowned World: in 2145, a tiny handful of hardy souls is moored in a superheated, drowned city (which turns out to be London), surrounded by deep lagoons - they have to live near the tops of buildings because everything below is flooded, silt-covered, and seaweed-smeared - just finishing up some science things before returning to the Arctic Circle where the temperature is a more comfortable 85°.
Some of the characters remain sane and understand that they cannot live in a superheated London for long, but other characters are summoned by deep "neuronic" impulses encoded in their atavistic genes to revert to their Triassic era longings, when apparently all creatures pined for the sun.
Insomma.2.5Ottime premesse, esecuzione deludente.Stile di scrittura fiorito ma noioso, lunghi periodi difficili da seguire, descrizioni interessanti ma spesso prolisse. Accuratezza nel linguaggio, ma contenuto incoerente, a causa delle poche spiegazioni. Un buon inizio con Ballard, ma sarebbe potuto andare meglio.
The heat afflicted routine hydrologies, and now “the Middle West of the United States, filled with the Mississippi as it drained the Rocky Mountains, became an enormous gulf opening into the Hudson Bay, while the Caribbean Sea was transformed into a desert of silt and salt flats.
So, yeah, the normal post-apocalyptic Setting, which, as we shall recall, sucks as a rule, being filled with inarticulate menace (here by reptiles and pirates and weather and whatnot).
Similarly, the Story sucks in the routine post-apocalypse, consisting of the protagonist’s insignificant struggles against the purposeless menace of the sucky Setting.
Survivors are accordingly afflicted by “ancient organic memory millions of years old” (89).
It doesn't appear to be an anthropogenic disaster, but the icecaps have melted, the world has been flooded and burning sunlight is making life pretty hard for the survivors.
These minor quirks aside, and I suppose being written in 1962 there was a less developed understanding of the potential consequences of global warming, it's an interesting yarn exploring the decline of Robert's mental state as the dreams infect him and the decline of civilisation in the trail of a global environmental disaster.
The result is that cities like London have become lagoons, surrounded by jungles and with only the top floors of the tallest buildings above water.That's the setting of The Drowned World, and it's by far the best thing about the book.
Ballard has quite a way with descriptions here, making his dystopian London vividly real.
The plot is rather thin, and deals mostly with the main character, and a few others, mentally regressing in the primordial atmosphere.
Everybody else, even the main character, are little more than cardboard cutouts.
I give very high marks to the setting, world building, and descriptions.
Escritor new wave, Ballard deja la experimentación aparte y se centra en narrar una historia donde prima el pesimismo y la introspección, alejándose de los manidos clichés del subgénero de catástrofes, más dedicados a las aventuras.En la presente novela, nos encontramos con un planeta Tierra totalmente anegado por las aguas, debido a un cataclismo climático.
Pero todo se complicará con la venida de un extravagante grupo de saqueadores.En resumen, se trata de una buena novela de catástrofes, donde sobresalen las descripciones de ese mundo sumergido, en el que la naturaleza es ama y señora, y donde la melancolía y la introspección están por encima de la aventura.
This is an excellent fast paced story set in a post climate change world where solar flares have melted ice caps and glaciers across the globe leaving only the poles vaguely habitable.
Set 70 years after with the few human survivors eking out a living on army research bases and remaining ships we follow Dr Kerans, Beatrice Dahl and others as they try and find their own way through in this strange aquatic world.
As the temperatures rise and storms threaten their lagoon world another threat arrives in the form of Strangeman and his crew that have the strange urge to try and rescue the sunken cities beneath them with interesting and explosive results.
There are a couple of radical shifts from the earlier book.I am a bit obsessed these days with climate fiction (it even has a genre abbreviation: CliFi) because despite ISIS, racial upheaval, the circus of the Presidential race, etc etc, we won't be able to be entertained by all this foolishness if we don't have a living planet on which to play out our human antics.While other books I am reading from 1962 are concerned with the Cold War, atomic weapons, the beginnings of the sexual revolution, and Civil Rights, there is also a growing awareness of the effects of industrial practices on the environment.The Drowned World is not exactly a screed about our endangered world as caused by mankind.
I was a tad disappointed with The Drowned World, having read a couple of other Ballad works.
The overall basis of the story, set in a future (although not too far in the future) globally warmed, flooded London, is an interesting one.
Again Ballad has that knack of describing a situation that is the right side of believable, this could happen, and that makes it a disturbing read.
But the Drowned world is a slow starter, too much description in the first half of the book, it picks up and the second half is really where the action is.
Good story, execution needs work, and Ballad certainly improves with subsequent novels.
