https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/92718.A_Gathering_of_Gargoyles
Following on the heels of THE DARKANGEL, Aeriel and Irrylath were married but in name only.
She was aware something was amiss and, before long, took it upon herself to find out why.
A riddle, her staff, the gargoyles and magic accompanied her on another adventure.I fell in love with the author's unusual words, crisp descriptions (especially of food) and the many gray areas of the plot.
Each character Aeriel met taught her something about her destiny without her actually aware of it.
And, most importantly, I desired a happy denouement for Aeriel and Irrylath.
The first book is a trial, and the second book is a journey.
All her seemingly magical feats are explained so easily to her (and to us) as "help from another" or "not my doing" or "not what I intended." It reminds me of becoming an adult woman--a string of events mostly outside of your control makes you become sought-after, hated, desirable, a prize to control.
Aeriel's journey proves that she is still very much a child--a child still in love with her first, most inappropriate crush.
But as an adult I can see that his journey mirrors hers, just tragically out of sync.
please god, let girls stop reading stephanie meyers & read this series instead!
The other main characters Prince Irrylath and Erin are very relatable.
At first, Prince Irrylath seems uncaring and indifferent towards Aeriel.
Aeriel even calls him her “husband in name only.” Through the battle and eventual victory over the White Witch, Aeriel realizes that Irrylath does love her.
Erin is a dark girl from Bern who Aeriel saves from a Darkangel.
My biggest criticism is that Pierce uses words that do not exist in the English language.
Pierce also uses a couple different names for the Darkangels (vampire, icari, birdman) and the White Witch (lorelei, oriencon, sorceress).
Overall, I think this is a good read.
I found this book to be less interesting and enjoyable than the first and third of the trilogy, but still good. I was somewhat irked by how predictable several of the supposed "twists" were. Parts of the story lagged a bit too, and the book didn't have the same fairy tale feel as the first book. Certain parts were really neat though, like the dust shrimp and it's metamorphosis later in the story.
When the second part of the rime/prophecy is revealed to Ariel she is forced to go on a journey to make sure the prophecy will be fulfilled and to save Irrylath from the water witch.The tone of this book is similar to the first book.
Again Pierce has Aeriel go through a lot of action, then times passes as Aeriel waits, then action, then more waiting.The storyline is very fairy-tale-like and very creative.
The writing is beautiful and descriptive; at times you feel as if you are floating through the story.
It was a beautiful book and a great continuation of this story.
I sort of figured that this was probably one of those series where the first book is really the only story and after that the narrative just kind of limps along so you get the satisfaction of knowing about the rest of the main character's lives.
You're going to figure out a lot of what's going on before the characters let you know about it, but there was at least one pretty impressive surprise for me at the end.Probably my only major complaint would be the lack of Aerial/Irrylath.
I would have loved this book dearly in my youth.The middle of series usually are my favourite because the set-up was already done but the ride isn't over.I enjoyed the journey Aeriel took on her quest to reunite the lons to defeat the White Witch who still has her husband ensared.
Irraylath is unable to love anyone until the witch is dead.(view spoiler)[The best parts were the different countries she went through and the various ways the icari pillaged the villages.
It was quite chilling when she meets her best friend Erin whose a fellow slave.
I thought this book was more enjoyable than the first.
I love books that take you on a journey with the characters, and a Gathering of Gargoyles did not disappoint.
Granted I worked out a lot of the rhyme before Aeriel did, but I liked that, it made me realise I understood and actually loved the book.
The gargoyles were adorable, although I never even considered them to be the lons until the lyoness nudged Aeriel in that direction.
It was an amazing book that I look forward to reading again and again, it is one I will not tire off.
If she is to save him - and to truly save her world from the Witch, who even now searches for a new babe to make into a darkangel - Aeriel must embark on a dangerous quest, and solve an ancient, hidden riddle.A Gathering of Gargoyles continues the story of a brave young woman named Aeriel, who has inexplicably become the one person that can stand against an evil that threatens to consumer her world.
From a pure story perspective, the actual plot of the novel is fairly simple - Aeriel leaves Isternes to find the lost lons, so that Irrylath's brothers can ride them into battle against the White Witch - and her journey takes her to the edges of the world.
We get to know why he can't "love" Aeriel.
Not really a mystery, since the specters told Aeriel in the first book (view spoiler)[that he used to be the Witch's lover, who is his adoptive mother...
(hide spoiler)]Aeriel starts a new adventure, but alas, she is not what she used to be.
She isn't the sharpest girl, the poor thing accepts drinks and food from suspicious people (her uncle, Diurna) without thinking.
Not once, but for almost all the length of book.I think that her whole stay in Pirs was such a waste of time.
How she did not notice a thing, from the very beginning.
Pierce does a good job of hinting at certain things, giving the reader enough clues to foreshadow that there's something really important about certain events or objects, but without revealing enough to give it away before the time is ripe.
I was really impressed with the way the author hints at her "strangeness" without ever really giving away if it's due to some innate power of Aeriel's or merely a result of her circumstances.
Overall, I thought it was an unusually solid second book; it's written as if it's really worth your time as a novel of its own and not just to fill in the middle of a trilogy.
The part that I still think is really cool is the revelation about where the lons have been all this time, which isn't obvious.
The truth (view spoiler)[that Irrylath was the witch's lover and that he's still aroused by her in his dreams (hide spoiler)] is far more complex and sad; it goes a long way toward making Irrylath more clearly a victim.As with the first book, I admire Pierce's worldbuilding, and I think this is a stronger story.
I liked this book better than the first, and I'm looking forward to reading the next book, but it seems like I might be the only reader who doesn't particularly like Aeriel.
It seems like she can barely figure out anything for herself and everyone else is always having to give her the answers.
I'll definitely keep reading to see how it ends and I hope I grow to like Aeriel more during the next book.
As a side note, I noticed a lot of typos in this book, just like the first one.
She really grows into her destined role of hero, though, and by the end of the book she is no longer a timid slave, but a force to be reckoned with.
I like that it's not a feeling of destiny that drives her, though, but her feelings of love and affection and hope.I can't wait to get my hands on Volume III.
At the end of this volume was a teaser, which was intense.
It looks like Aeriel is going to be betrayed.
This book doesn't have the charm of Darkangel. It feels more forced and less like a fairytale. The references to other works are enjoyable but constructed. It is a satisfying read, but lacks the mastery that set the first book apart and I would recommend in conjunction with that and not alone.
Oh My, this series is seriously addictive. Meredith Ann Pierce, where have you been all my life?
The concept is engaging, and the majority of the story is nicely written, with strong imagery and mood-building in certain parts (particularly the passages where (view spoiler)[Aeriel and the jugglers try to get through Demon Pass, the darkangel tries to follow in Aeriel's shadow, but flees at the sight of her eyes, and the discussion of what makes a "stupid" vs. a "smart" darkangel (hide spoiler)]), but certain parts of it were tiresomely repetitive. The two most irritating ones to me were (vie
The concept is engaging, and the majority of the story is nicely written, with strong imagery and mood-building in certain parts (particularly the passages where (view spoiler)[Aeriel and the jugglers try to get through Demon Pass, the darkangel tries to follow in Aeriel's shadow, but flees at the sight of her eyes, and the discussion of what makes a "stupid" vs.
I think fondly of the strong parts, but overall, it became a bit of a chore to read by the end.
It is very old school and at times hard to keep up.
I liked the girl main character because she wasn't a quitter.
I have been thinking hard on how I should review this and I think I will just state my opinion.
I liked the dark story because honestly I can't find something like it now.
However, it is like Shakespeare and it's hard to understand at some points.
I have to actually contemplate the characters before I keep reading.
It is one of those stories that should be read all together instead of spaced out since this is a trilogy.
Fantastic! :')
tyvärr inte tillgänglig på engelska men fortfarande lika bra
Yes, an old book, but a fun book to read. Liked it more than the first.
I read this novel when it first came out. I loved the beautiful language. Beast became a prince and the not so beautiful heroine became both a beauty and a princess by her own merits and courage.
She saw the it wouldn't work out with Irrylath and later to go on her quest, though she was still pretty upset about the whole thing.
They have these things called day-months and fortnights.
(I have no idea how long these things are, so estimating time within the book is difficult).
I still found Aeriel's point of view in the third person to be kind of clod and impersonal (but a lot of adventure stories are like that).
A lot of things came together that I didn't think would until the third book.
The sea of dust, the different races of people having a plethora of different skin colours (ranging from mauve and rose, to honest-to-God-blue), and even the 'lighthouses' all being linked in some mystical way; all these odd and wonderful facets of Aeriel's world are really what make me enjoy the story as much as I do.Contrary to what I expected, there wasn't a whole lot of Irralyth.
By the time I read Roshka's story I was convinced, and the fact that Aeriel continued to deny it suggested to me that the reader wasn't really supposed to be as certain as I was.
The reason I gave it three stars this time around, however, is a beef I have with the character Aeriel.
When her friends say "come, let us run away!" Aeriel's response is, "sure, but first I'm going to go meet with the bad guy, for no apparent reason but to let him know I am on to him!" And when said Bad Guy says "come, follow me into the tower where you already know Bad Things are going to happen," she FOLLOWS him.
And I was interested in seeing how the lons would be rescued, and I did enjoy the end of the book.
A když už mi přeci jenom něco vypadlo, tak jsem si na to prakticky hned zase vzpomněla, protože postavy se naštěstí často zmiňují o tom, co se dělo před tím.
Taky odhalování minulosti některých postav bylo zajímavé, ačkoli jsem něco z toho dokázala odhadnout.
Aeriel mám jako hlavní postavu moc ráda.
Aeriel sice smutnila, že o ni Irrylath nemá zájem, ale na druhou stranu nikde nebulila a nelezla za ním.
Irrylath byl v prvním díle úžasný, tady už to bylo o něco horší.
Nejen, že neustále Aeriel přehlížel, ale ještě k tomu se choval jako mučedník.
This books just didn't do as much for me as it's predecessor.The middle 200 pages or so were just dull.
In this book, Aeriel is more or less on her own and seems to miss incredibly obvious "clues." Many people make mention of her suspected heritage, and she plays dumb, or is dumb.Another issue is the mass of coincidences.
Often Aeriel picks up something seemingly trivial, then later on in turns out to be incredibly valuable.
That's just getting lazy: have her recognize its worth if she's going to be picking up so many valuable things.That being said, there are really enjoyable aspects to this book.
It's not perfect - there are bits of archaic phrases where I think Pierce is too self-consciously writing Fantasy with a capital F - but for sheer beauty of imagery it beats out nearly every other fantasy setting I've ever read.
So often in fantasy, the rescued princess is the love interest.
But here the prince is rescued and in this book it becomes clear not only that his captivity has left him with an enormous amount of trauma, but that he is in no way a reward and absolutely refuses to be a love interest.
I can't say this was 100% true for A Gathering of Gargoyles but I will say, if not the story, then the characters were weaker, especially Aeriel.
Despite numerous hints, whether about something as trivial as the cloak she wore or about something as important as her true identity, she had to be beaten upside the head with a sledgehammer before any of these concepts got through to her.
You're crazy!” Despite that annoyance, the story continued its theme of intertwining various elements from folklore and fairytales, as well as a deeper exploration into the sci-fi background of Aeriel's world, into a lyrical story of transformation, rebirth, and empowerment.
