https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/17265.Thirty_Years_that_Shook_Physics
I am one of the people in favor of making education entertaining, but others in the group believe equally strongly in the principle of no pain, no gain.I'm pleased to see here that the late George Gamow is a firm upholder of the contrary principle.
He does a splendid job of walking you through the early decades of the quantum revolution, cleverly mixing anecdotes about his old friends (Bohr, Pauli, Dirac and others) with some quite sensible physics.
I think my favorite was the following one about Dirac:Dirac was notoriously shy with women, so his colleagues were surprised when they discovered that he had married the sister of Eugene Wigner, another famous physicist.
I salute George Gamow. He is as intelligent, witty and subversive as I am.If only he hadn't died before I was born, I am sure I would be proud to list him among my very favorite lovers.
This is one of my all time favorite popular books on physics! I read it when I was 15 yrs old and the stories (and the physics!) have inspired me since then!
It is a history of early 20th-century physics organized around some of the major contributing scientists.With personal knowledge of the physicists involved, Gamow is able to share not only the physics (in simple terms) but also the atmosphere of the time.For physicists, immersed in mathematical theories, who can no longer see the forest for the trees, this book gives a quick overview of the beginnings of quantum theory.
For anyone trying to understand some of the most important ideas in the recent history of science, this book provides a fairly accessible introduction containing only a small amount of mathematics.
Geroge Gamov has done really well to make a topic, like quantum mechanics, as simple as possible. It covers some prominent events between 1900-1930 that shaped the course of modern physics. Besides explaining quantum theory laconically, it also shows the funny sides of some famous physicists.Overall, if you want to know the very basics of quantum theory without being overwhelmed by its complexity, it should be your go-to book.
Świetnie napisana książka. Tak powinny być pisane książki popularnonaukowe.
Gamow gives a very good account of the happenings in physics circle from 1900 to 1930.
These thirty years are considered very important in the history of Quantum physics.
If you want to learn about quantum physics, this book will help you learn the basics about it, and at times it is is funny too when it describes some of the incidents related to these scientists.
I had a good laugh when reading about Pauli's very funny third principle of things breaking down in laboratories in the presence of theoretical physicists.
When a scientist's experiment went wrong, he wrote a letter to Pauli.
I picked this book up at a sale event in our public library.
The book also offers a relatively easy to understand fundemental principles of the quantum theory that broke every basic classical notion of space, time, and motion that were well established and subject to common sense.
Just like how theory of relativity showed that at very high velocities and very large distances things do not behave as "they should have".
Quantum physics takes you to to the scale electrons neutrons protons and neutrinos.
If you are a science enthusiast, you might wanna have this in your library.
This book does an excellent job of explaining the various achievements in quantum physics over a critical thirty year period.
But Gamow was not the playwright, and decided to just add it for entertainment purposes at the end, so I cannot criticize him for that.The only criticism I could give is that there should have been a separate chapter on Erwin Schrödinger, as well as a second chapter on Richard Feynman.Overall, this is a book worth reading for those that have an interest in quantum physics.
It did a nice job of explaining the major findings of quantum mechanics and also gave a brief but good account of the major players in this field, including Max Planck, Neils Bohr, Wolfgang Pauli, De Broglie and Schrodinger, Werner Heisenberg, Paul Dirac, Enrico Fermi and Hideki Yukawa.
I can't claim to understand everything that was discussed in this book, but I do now have some understanding of why Schrodinger and Heisenberg came up with different methods but identical conclusions on wave mechanics of particle motion.
I hope this book has provided me with a good foundation for further reading on the theory and history of quantum mechanics.
A Bit Dated But a Good Short Intro to Quantum TheoryThe book offers brief (except the Bohr chapter) introductions to quantum theory principles. It goes from Planck to Dirac with some notes on particle physics. These last chapters are a bit dated though, missing the more recent QED, QCD, electroweak theory, and standard model. Plus misses more recent quantum mechanics like entanglement and the EPR argument which lead to it, plus there is no discussion of alternative interpretations. In Search of Schrödinger's Cat, or Quantum Realities is a better start I think.
Professor Gamow's great anecdote - to a layman - & a first account for historians and physical sciences enthusiast. Mentioning the modest highlight on own life and connecting ground-breaking discoveries/inventions of prominent scientists touching upon their other life as well.The part which I liked, personally is where he explains - the Pauli effect - a mysterious effect, with no explanation yet.And the "Faust", what it is? - For that you'll have to read the book.
Pop science, but from one of the guys in on the ground floor of quantum physics. Lots of fun to hear about the personalities (Fermi, Bohr, Pauli, etc.), but the latter parts assume some familiarity with some of the physics and, to a lesser extent, some calculus and linear algebra.
A fine retelling of the early days of quantum physics and a hint at the beauty of the theory.fascinating to be reading it with the hindsight of another 50 years elapsed time, so that when Gamow says "no one has explained XYZ," I could think, "yes! yes they have!!"
Consider it the short story of Quantum Physics. It wraps up the fast paced progress as quantum physicists started to develop the concept of the atom. I had to repeatedly remind myself to forget what I know about the atom today so I can walk through the discovery process as I read through the book.
Fausto de Blegdamsvej fue lo mejor que me paso
Amazing Development of Quantum world
It is wonderful in simply a word . But I think he didn't give the Arab scientists their rights or he didn't know their history clearly
This is an entertaining and imaginative piece of popular physics. Gamow's drawings are charming and he writes well and at the right level.
Loved it! Fascinating history showing the personalities of many of my scientific heroes!
Although the whole book offers a lot of interesting material for a physics lover, the reason I keep coming back to it is The Blegdamsvej Faust. A superb piece.
physics story...
