https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1241.A_Million_Little_Pieces
Going in knowing this, I had a fairly open mind thinking of it more as a "based on a true story" kind of memoir (hey if I was writing about rehab I would probably change a few things too).
If a crack head runs away from rehab, the guy that doesn't like him isn't going to come and help him on his mission.
You are the most incredible person on earth (that's what he wants us to say isn't it?)Third, I hate the bit at the end of the book that "explains" what happens to all of the other characters.
My Book Club chose to read this Book for the month of June.I had owned it for years and never gotten around to reading it.Then I read it.The Book.A Million Little Pieces.It is the allegedly true but probably not story of a Man who smokes a lot of crack and huffs gas and drinks and drinks and drinks until he is so sick he blacks out and he worries his friends and his family until he is sent to a Clinic.
This is his story.Allegedly.I like this book, I thought, when I first started reading it, even though I knew it was probably 80% bull.
I read MLP in the spring of 2004 after it was recommended to me by an internship supervisor-turned-friend when I shared with her a story I wrote about a man addicted to cocaine, inspired by true life events.
No, MLP was like a secret club, something to be shared prefaced with a disclaimer of "It's really intense, and kind of gory at parts, impossible to read at others, but you might like it ..."Then, Oprah happened.
There are those of us, like my friend and I, with whom the book resonated due to an association with addiction, can appreciate it for what it is, however true or fabricated it may be.
i'm not anti-12-step programs, ((if it works, great!)) but there are a lot of other options that people are not made aware of that could save a life or two.third, with regards to the climactic scene where frey confronts the demon-whiskey, whether it actually happened or not is pretty irrelevant; he paints a great picture of how a person feels once he/she is on the other side of the problem/disorder/disease/whatever.
and when it comes to the scene at the dentist, well, it wouldn't shock me one way or the other concerning his "truthiness." what i will say is that i can't out right dismiss the possibility when it comes to a man who has the courage to put such a personal and difficult experience out there for the entire world.
So bad, it's eminently quotable.
I fondly remember lines like, "I endured, I endured, I fucking endured" and "a bayonet, an eight-foot bayonet, a fucking eight-foot bayonet" both during his traumatic root canal (poor Jimmy), and "Like a child being burned alive, a child being burned alive, a child being fucking burned alive," Frey's way of describing a grown man's screaming at the top of his lungs.
See the pattern here?
Forgive me if I misquote him by leaving out ellipses.
No, I didn't demand a refund on my copy: I borrowed the book from a friend.
My thoughts are that Frey probably did exaggerate or simply make up some of the things he writes in A Million Little Pieces.
O'Brien does lay it out, and Frey probably should have.That all being said, I thought this was a very high quality book.
Frey has little respect for AA or 12 stepping in general, and he insists throughout the book on taking responsibility for his own actions and for his addictions.
What I'm interested in is what Frey the writer has to say about them.I like this book because it was interesting to read, it didn't remind me of every other addiction book I've ever read, and it made me think.
Oh, and look what a big strong tough brave chivalrous man I am for saving a woman who is, well, not as fucked up as me (because face it, nobody in the history of the world has EVER BEEN as fucked up as me), but who is delicate and pretty and totally incapable of HANDLING HER SHIT like I am, because I am MADE OF STEEL.Yeah, I really hated this book.
What a (million little) piece(s) of crap!
By the time I finished this book I was craving a few stiff drinks, desperately tearing up the house looking for a syringe and spoon.
I found it to be vapid, self-aggrandizing bullshit from start to finish.I read this book before the whole Oprah controversy/confrontation, so that really had no impact upon my lowly opinion.
So why am I wasting my time writing this review?
Thank you for just saying no to "A Million Little Pieces" - you would have a much better time reading the operating manual for your toaster oven while smoking a rock.
After that, it was pure fiction - very dangerous fiction for an addict.From his description, I believe he went to the same treatment center as I did.
It isn't logical nor part of any reputable treatment plan, to allow the addict to cure himself.
She believed the whole book - I knew most of it was fiction way before Oprah finally got around to saying it.
As for Mr. Frey, he got his moment of fame, probably a lot of money & hopefully he really isn't an addict or it will likely kill him.There are better ways for a loved one to know what it is like to be an addict.
(Not that all of us don't..we just didn't write a book.) To end on a positive note, I will say that "A Million Little Pieces" did give some people a push to seek treatment for their addictions and anything that is able to motivate someone is valuable, no matter the reason behind it.New thoughts: I have been alerted by another good-reader that Frey refused to follow the 12 steps while he was in rehab (I remember this now..it has been a while since I read the book.) If the memoir was a true story, I would send an emphatic bravo over to Frey and encourage him to design his own program..
I also have a lot of anger about Oprah (much of which well-meaning friends have tried to get me to get over, but no fucking thank you), and I think she too was just exclusively concerned with protecting her brand and her market share, and that everybody scapegoated Frey in an unforgivable way.
I mean, for fuck's sake, I smoke a lot of cigarettes, and though yes, I do think I have a bit of an addictive personality, and sure, maybe because my parents didn't take away my bottle early enough I have an oral fixation, and yup, many of my relatives were heavy smokers, but still: every single time I light a cigarette, I am making a decision to do so.
I must start, as is customary with this one, by saying I read the book after it was picked to be in Oprah's book club, but before the scandal occurred.
I attempted to rate it based on the way I felt upon completing it, and without the perspective I now have which is likely affected by the scandal.
I found the author's writing style to be unique, brisk, and concise in ways I had not previously experienced.
I believe one of the reasons I (or the global "we") read books or listen to music is because those people that work/create in those mediums are able to put to words feelings and emotions that "we" all feel, but sometimes can not articulate.
In his much-debated book, Frey offers the reader a significant glimpse into his life as an addict and the time he spent in a treatment centre addressing these demons.
Choppy, repetitive, and even nonsensical at times, Frey portrays the struggles that the addict must face while also presenting a lifestyle that, for some readers, is entirely foreign.
You have touched my life in ways that I cannot clearly elucidate, but I think you know precisely what I mean, even without the written word.Kudos, Mr. Frey for putting forth this frank account of the struggles an addict faces.
I kept attempting to run my tounge along my barren gums and was "surprised" to find my teeth there instead.
Although there were parts where I felt he was too repetitive (no more vomiting details, please!), overall the effect was phenomenal.I knew about the controversy over the difference between 'memoir' versus 'fiction-based-on-reality' that James Frey sparked with this book, and it was actually part of the reason that I was intrigued enough to buy it and read it myself.
As I said before, I was completely taken by the book while reading it.
Which revelation leads to an outraged public and an even more outraged community of non-fiction writers, who seem to feel that Mr. Frey has irreparably harmed the reputation of the genre and jeopardized their chances at getting their own books published and read by tens of thousands of readers.What is my opinion of Frey's literary transgression?
He or she is attempting an 'eyewitness' account of their own lived experience, and such an undertaking, based on individual memory, is simply not going to result in a 'true' story in the sense that the public seems to suddenly demand.As a reader, I do not turn to memoir seeking objective truth.
Being a recovering drunk myself, I found Frey's book to be thoroughly annoying.
People in addiction tend to be self-absorbed people and this is one of the things we're trying to learn not to be when we stop drinking/using.
Frey portrays a character who stops using but doesn't really change.
The good thing about the book was his portrayal of life for a substance abuser.
What I really got out of it was how highly self-absorbed drunks and drug addicts are even when we write crappy books about it.
This book is so real and so detailed and specific and James' life is so horrible that it's nothing I would ever want for myself.
I know there's a lot of controversy about whether this is a fiction or a non fiction book and I say: who cares?
Whether he really lived it or exaggerated most of it, it's a good book.
It's detailed and interesting and compelling and even as a fiction book nothing changes it.
Maybe James Frey did not go through everything in this novel, but someone somewhere out there is and that makes the book non fiction.
True love at first sight saves the day, the author befriends a mob boss with a heart of gold, and there are more addict sob stories than you can swing a crack pipe at.
Other "Oh you don't really expect me to believe this" points include: * Getting on a plane covered in blood, in need of immediate medical attention, and unconscious.
While I think one addiction is obviously better than the other in this example, i can kind of see what he's talking about.But again, since the legitimacy of his whole tale is questionable, I'm not sure I'd recommend looking to him for anything more than an entertaining story.
Everyone who had anything to say about the book I was reading said the same thing, and I think they said it for the same reason- as a warning.
This book might not be what you think it is...this James Frey is telling a story in his story...you know, just be careful.
What do you feel are the most important differences between those two genres?" (Sedaris:)"...Okay, James Frey wrote a book saying, 'I'm a fucked-up alcoholic.' And then people read the book, and now they're saying, 'That drunk lied to us!' Well, he kind of warned you in advance that he was a fucked-up alcoholic.
In 2003, James Frey released A Million Little Pieces, a memoir detailing his 10 year battle with drug and alcohol abuse.
Unfortunately, almost all reviews and press related to this book since that time period dwell heavily on the controversy and less on the story itself and really, it's not very fair.
A lot of people felt slighted or even taken advantage of due to Frey's erroneous claims and of course, people are entitled to their own opinions; one of the reasons I even review things to begin with.
I was a little disappointed but it didn't change the effect the book had on me, I still loved it either way.
You may be thinking you'd like to read this book to see what all the fuss is about.
First of all, even putting the "scandal" aside (and I'm sorry, but if you read this book and didn't know that 90 percent of it or more was absolute bullshit, you really need to do some work on your critical thinking skills), the writing style is embarrassing -- an overwrought, pseudo-macho mess.
If you want a story about addiction, read Ellen Harris's Like Being Killed instead.
This is the only book to date that I have ever deliberately destroyed after reading -- put it through the shredder at work.
I remember speaking about it to the Social Work Practice class I taught at the time and noted that I wasn't at all convinced that it was "true." But I did think it had some interesting material in it if you could look past the quite serious horseshit*: the oral surgery, the romantic embraces, the endless vomiting, and ultimately, the heroic vindication.I certainly enjoyed watching Frey squirm as he tried to parse what he understood is meant by "memoir" as if he were not the only person in existence who understands it that way.What was good was some of the perception (after you remove the intense egoism of Frey) of the co-residents of his particular unit.
I cannot think of anything that Frey wants to say in this book other than: Look at how fucked-up I am.
I just want you to look at how fucked-up I am and revel in that because I'm a narcissistic asshole and I just love to talk about myself.
I will lie all through the book to make myself look tough and bad-ass, and after my lies are exposed I will try to justify them by saying that I wanted my story to have ebb and flow.
The only reason that this book has blown up to more than 500 pages is that Frey just loves to talk about himself.
Surely many of you have seen the controversy over this book which has left Oprah "very disappointed" in author James Frey.
She feels taken advantage of by the fact that he seems to have fictionalized several incidents in the book.
It offers unflinching insight into the loathing and despair that comes with it, and the very long, very hard road back from it.The book opens with Frey waking up on an airplane at age 23 after ten-plus years of intense, regular, hard drug use.
Gary's right about this dude. He's a bigger pumpkin fucker than Steinbeck.
İkincisi ise daha önce alkolik ve uyuşturucu bağımlısı birinin bu denli ayrıntılı bir şekilde neler hissettiğini ve neler yaşadığını daha önce hiç okumamış olmamdı.James Frey’i hepimiz Endgame serisinin yazarı olarak biliyoruz peki ama bundan önce o kimdi?
Anne, babası ve kardeşi ona sürekli destek oluyor fakat James’in içinde öyle büyük bir öfke var ki anne ve babasını ne zaman göre onlardan nefret ediyor.
Bazen de o kadar çok şey aynı anda oluyor ki diyorum acaba “gerçekten de yaşamış mısınız James bey bunları?” Son olarak, kitabın sonu ve her bir karaktere daha sonradan neler olduğu yazılması iyi düşünülmüş.
One word sentences often written as a list.It's repetitive:Over and over, descriptions of his meals in the dining room.Over and over, descriptions of him throwing up.Over and over, descriptions of him showering.Over and over, that he’s an Alcoholic, Addict, Criminal.Over and over, how f*d up he is.It's unbelievable:"I wake to the drone of an airplane engine and the feeling of something warm dripping down my chin.
I open them and I look around and I'm in the back of a plane and there's no one near me.
"אני לבד.
אני לבד בזוועה שלי.
אני לא רוצה להיות לבד.
לאחר שהוא נאסף ע"י הוריו בשדה התעופה הוא מאושפז במכון גמילה מאלכוהול וסמים וכך הוא מתאר את חיו:"ג'יימס פריי.
דפק את הראש בפעם הראשונה בגיל עשר.
הקיא משתיה מופרזת בפעם הראשונה בגיל עשר.
איבד את ההכרה בפעם הראשונה בגיל 14.
נעצר שלוש פעמים נוספות בגיל 16..."וכך בגיל 23, מוכה וחבוט כשגופו על סף התמוטטות ומוות ונפשו שבורה הוא צריך להחליט האם להיאבק למען החיים או לרדת ביגון שאולה.
כשגופו ונפשו מבקשים את האלכוהול ואת הסמים, הוא יודע שאם יבחר בדרך הזו הוא גוזר את גורלו למוות.
איבדתי הכול ואני אבוד ונותר גוש של קינה, עצב, יגון, צער וכאב לב.
When I mentioned it on my book group it appears the entire world had heard about it and read it, which obviously led me to download it immediately and read it.I am not going to lie and say it’s a easy read or a brilliant book, it’s bloody harrowing and painful and raw.
In 2008 after a six-week investigation it was revealed that the book contained fabrications and was not a completely factual memoir.
This book is very well written, but has a unique format because it is choppy.
The only paragraphs that are long are when James explains his inner thoughts which just seem like a run on.
A negative side to this book is that a couple parts of his memoir were proven to be made up.
This made me trust the author less, but I continued to read the book because it still showed true emotion.
Overall, I liked the book and was able to separate the author from the piece of work.
