https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/913882.The_Man_Who_Went_Up_in_Smoke
Doesn’t even have bats in the belfry-they couldn’t get in for all the crap in the way.”For those fans of Kurt Wallander there will be a deja vu moment when you start reading a Maj Sjowall and Per Wahloo novel.
My relationship with Martin Beck is a little better than my relationship with Kurt Wallander.
Martin Beck does not annoy me as much as Kurt Wallander.
He could not understand why.”Well Mr. Beck pretty young ladies start to feel like you are a perv when you stare TOO long.
Next thing Beck knows two guys are trying to kill him.
However, the Budapest of this book seems like an idyllic vacation spot, and the police are polite and fairly helpful to Beck.
It was a nice surprise that this was more of cop-out-of-his-element story rather than a mystery with political/conspiracy overtones.This series gets a lot of credit for being among the first police procedurals, and it’s easy to see the influence they had on the genre.
Unfortunately, this copycatting has familiarized me with the style enough to enable me to guess the solution to the mystery about half way through the book.However, I also liked the way that so much of what Beck is feeling and thinking is explained via his actions and not exposition or dialogue.
Un volto oscuro fatto di alcolismo, depressioni, legami familiari che si spezzano strozzati dal troppo lavoro...il male ha un volto diverso rispetto a quello a cui siamo abituati.Ma stavolta Martin Beck è condotto dall' indagine al di fuori della sua terra, il quel mondo sconosciuto ed inquietante che è stato il blocco comunista: la caccia ad un uomo scomparso porterà l'ufficiale della polizia di Stoccolma tra i colli di Budapest, ancora freschi del sangue delle repressioni russe del maresciallo Konev.La detective story è chiara, lineare e godibile: me lo sono bevuto in tre giorni: ma è l'atmosfera che rende questo libro speciale.
A Swedish journalist has gone missing in Budapest and it is Martin Beck's job to find him.
The politicians want the case settled quickly to avoid a scandal in cold war Europe (Wallenburg Mark 2 perhaps?) - but can Beck solve the case in time?The case is absolutely baffling with the journalist leaving only the lightest of traces in Budapest - a couple of hotel check ins and taxi rides.
Surely even Beck will find this insufficient.
A couple of plot twists keep you guessing throughout what is a relatively slim book - 200 pages.This book was written in the 60's but it still feels contemporary- except maybe for the relentless smoking by all and sundry.A good read.
A Swedish national, a "sports" journalist, goes missing in Budapest, behind the "Iron Curtain." It's the height of the Cold War, and Swedish homicide detective Martin Beck, about to enjoy his vacation, is sent, instead, to look into the disappearance.
A Canadian boy would expect a 70s Budapest to be riddled with spies and spying and suspicion.
A Canadian boy would expect something thrillingly action packed.
Budapest was just a step in the path to the appropriately depressing conclusion.It is what all the Martin Beck mysteries are -- true -- and that is the highest praise I can bestow on a work of fiction.
And in the same way life moves quicker when you return home from your holidays so too does the plot when Beck flies home to Sweden; no longer inebriated with foreign weather and cigarettes his little grey cells put the pieces together almost as if he'd known all along.The fact that the authors have gone on record of wanting to "use the crime novel as a scalpel cutting open the belly of the ideologically pauperized and morally debatable so-called welfare state of the bourgeois type" serves to emphasise the importance of the team of detectives surrounding Beck; alone in Budapest he is not the famous detective, he is nothing, but on his return to his police family, with a support network of his equals he is once more able to achieve great things.As Richard Shephard says in the p.s. section of the book after reading this you feel what is almost a compulsion to discover more about Beck and his life, what choice is there but to turn hurriedly to the third instalment?Part 1: Roseanna
In urma dispariției unui cunoscut jurnalist suedez, detectivul Martin Beck este nevoit să-și întrerupă concediul și să încerce elucidarea misterului în Budapesta.
Deși în partea a doua a poveștii apar treptat mai multe elemente care sugerează adevăratele implicații ale dispariției, deznodământul cazului a fost o adevărată surpriză pentru mine.Poate dacă aș fi putut empatiza cu Martin Beck, m-ar fi încântat mai mult… Stilul autorilor mi s-a părut detașat și destul de sec, se pare ca nu-mi priește genul acesta de expunere obiectivă, oarecum lipsită de nuanțe.
Mi-a plăcut Budapesta, așa cum am simțit-o în paginile cărții, mi-a plăcut construcția treptată a cazului și finalul surprinzător al poveștii; per ansamblu, o lectură plăcută și antrenantă.
Compared to other authors put in a similar situation (most recently Henning Mankell in Dogs of Riga) the games of right wing / left wing politics are ignored, letting the manic depressive Beck cross the Danube on an old fashioned steamer, listen to Strauss waltzes in an opulent restaurant, relax in the sulphurous hot baths or gazing from the heights of Buda at the sprawling city basking in the summer heat.At about the halfway mark of the book things pick up and the various secondary characters introduced start to make sense and the scarcity of clues give way to revelations that I can't describe without giving the plot away.
These are police procedurals with little in the way of histrionics, leftfield plot twists or characters whose motivations don’t have much relation to reality.
These are quietly effective thrillers.A Swedish journalist disappears in Hungary and Martin Beck is sent to investigate.
In a way this give the book a Chandler-esque feel (and I wonder if Philip Kerr read it before creating his Marlowe as European cop character, Bernie Gunther).
As Martin Beck tries to get to grips with possible murder behind the Iron Curtain, the tension builds and a genuinely intriguing and tense tale unfolds.
Also what I find interesting is that when the case is solved, rather than feeling satisfaction and triumph, Inspector Beck express gloom and despair instead.
The reason according to the writer is due to his introverted personality.The story begins when inspector Martin Beck start to spend his holiday in an island.
However, his holiday is ruined when he is summoned by his superior to investigate in a delicate case.
So Beck must travel there and find him within a week in order prevents this from happening, in a country where he's on his own.
Exactly twenty-fours hours into his sojourn, Martin Beck once again finds himself sitting in the office of Chief Inspector Hammar and agreeing to undertake a relatively hush hush investigation on behalf of the foreign office into the disappearance of a well-known journalist, a Swede named Alf Matsson.
One of the most interesting facets of this case is the fact that something of a very similar nature did actually arise and the 'Wallenberg affair" referenced by the men from the foreign office is actually referring to the disappearance of Swedish architect, diplomat and humanitarian Raoul Wallenberg in Budapest in 1945.
Very methodical, finely plotted book.
I am amazed by the way the writers managed to achieve a calm texture while keeping the narrative conflict alive.
Clues are sparse and lead only to deadlocks.
We see and understand how painful an investigation can be and we cheer when a small detail, the kind that is not even considered in a more kinetic thriller, leads us somewhere.
The way a payoff is arrived at is brilliant, yes brilliant...
something only confident writers are capable of, because you have to learn to let go of extravagance and gimmicks and focus only on the mundane.
And speaking of influences, it is well known that this pair of authors were the primary influence for Henning Mankell's work a few decades later (Mankell writes the introduction for the first in the Martin Beck series).In The Man Who Went Up In Smoke we can see close similarities between Mankell's novel Dogs of Riga, and this much earlier novel.
She is best known for the collaborative work with her partner Per Wahlöö on a series of ten novels about the exploits of Martin Beck, a police detective in Stockholm.
2,5Παρότι με ξένισε που το συγκεκριμένο μυθιστόρημα περιορίζεται και εστιάζει στο Μπεκ κι απουσιάζει η γνωστή ομάδα, με μεγάλη επιτυχία μεταφέρεται το αίσθημα της αποδιοργάνωσης στην οποία θα βρισκόταν ο οποιοσδήποτε σε μια ξένη χώρα, να προσπαθεί να εντοπίσει ένα Σουηδό δημοσιογράφο.
I think it is because of how important this series is to its genre.The Martin Beck books aren't merely perceived as the inspiration for the authors who followed Maj Sjöwall & Per Wahloo, many of the authors who have gone on to write police procedurals admit their debt fully.
It is a city and a city, and that idea is playing on the edges of The Man Who Went Up in Smoke.These connections and those who've been inspired by Maj Sjöwall & Per Wahloo don't really matter for too many of us.
From the uninteresting characters to the story that was boring in every way possible, I just could not care for this book.
most of the time, the policeman goes around and questions people and goes back to his hotel to eat dinner and sleep.
Nothing about the story was interesting to me.
The ending was not worth the 170 previous pages and I felt like I wasted my time reading it.
I expected something better, something that popped but the whole ending scene was very boring.
Sorry, i know this one one of those novels that introduced ideas that were spread to other crime books but this was not my cup of tea.
The second "Beck/Novel about a crime"-book sends Martin Beck searching for a missing reporter in the 60's Eastern Europe. Quite slow evolving and low-key narrative, this never comes to mind when I'm asked to name the top books of the series, but every time I read it, I'm stunned about how much I like it.
Add in a long train ride and you have a one-sitting read, something I rarely get nowadays.
The is the second installment of Sjowall and Wahloo's Martin Beck series.
MB's summer vacation is cut short when a tabloid journalist vanishes on a work trip to Budapest.
They join forces and work on solving the mystery, which turns out to be not at all what I expected and quite interesting.
MB's wanderings around the city made me want to visit, and the food sounded delicious (did I mention I was on a train and getting hungry?).
Martin Beck is a character I'm growing very fond of.
He has just started his month-long summer vacation with his family on a small island off the coast of Sweden when he receives a call to return to duty.It seems that a Swedish journalist has gone missing in Hungary and Beck's superiors want him to go to Budapest to act as liaison to the investigation.
Beck begins to suspect that they are telling the truth and that the journalist did not actually travel to Budapest in June, even though he shows to have been registered at a couple of hotels then.
The man returned to his double espresso.Martin Beck moved his eyes and saw a woman staring at him.
But there appears to be a consensus among contemporary writers—at least among those who are partial to police procedurals—that the leading source of inspiration among modern authors was the Swedish husband-and-wife team of Maj Sjöwall and Per Wahlöö.Writing in the 1960s and 70s, Sjöwall and Wahlöö produced a series of ten novels featuring Inspector Martin Beck of the Swedish National Police.
Maj Sjöwall and Per Wahlöö were the originators of Scandinavian noir.The Man Who Went Up In Smoke is Sjöwall and Wahlöö’s second Martin Beck novel.
FYI, this is actually the second in the series - the English translation I read says it's the 3rd, but I think that's b/c the English pub dates for the 2nd and the 3rd (in original pub order in Sweden) were reversed.
That said, and even though the next and third book in the series ("The Man on the Balcony") includes a quick reference to this second book, it's not important to read these two in order - I would read the 1st one first, though, to get an introduction to the main and supporting cast of characters.
Martin Beck gives up his annual holidays to go to Budapest to search for a missing journalist.
Obviously his wife was not happy but Beck's real marriage is to his job.
That is as far as the book goes into Beck's personal life.With few clues Beck is still able to solve the crime.Written in the third person, the authors provide great details in describing the scenes and characters - this attention to detail is also what Beck does so well.
Plus the book describes the simplicity of life before the internet and mobile phones, the freedom to smoke on airplanes, the beauty of Budapest and a love affair with Hungarian food.
The third book I have read in this series and it is the most disappointing effort.
The biggest problem for me is that we have a missing journalist and out of the blue (while on his first day of vacation) Martin Beck is called in specially by the Foreign Office to handle a missing persons case in a country he is completely unfamiliar with, and without any clues and is also directed to not really involve the Hungarian authorities unless absolutely necessary.
Not a lot of action, a really bizarre ending to the case that has nothing to do with Hungary and so it was rather an unfulfilling read for me.Give it a 2.5**
Maj Sjöwall and Per Wahloô are well known in their native country as some of the very best mystery & police procedurals writers in the Nordic Noir genre. I enjoyed this brief story and marvel at the authors' ability to take a seemingly simple story line and weave a great mystery from it. Do yourself a favor and throw this or one of their other little gems into your mystery reading list. Enjoy, and happy holidays to all.
Reading the second book of a series is special, a time to see how the characters and writing of the first book are going to develop. Martin is another depressed detective in a police procedural, but let’s see what book three does.
15)Mas, Martin Beck, aceita e viaja para Budapeste, um dos países da Cortina de Ferro, num dos períodos mais conturbados da Guerra Fria; tem dez dias para investigar “discretamente”, só e incógnito, sem qualquer ajuda ou apoio das autoridades locais, para não prejudicar as relações institucionais entre os dois países – Alf Matsson não se pode ter esfumado.
”O homem que se desfez em fumo” é um bom livro policial, que associa uma investigação criminal, “não-oficial”, a uma detalhada componente histórica, no período da Guerra Fria e dos denominados países da Cortina de Ferro, onde se inclui a Hungria; numa narrativa que se vai desenvolvendo lentamente (excessivamente, na minha opinião), com um final surpreendente.
Inspector Martin Beck is called in off his summer vacation to speak to the Foreign Office about a missing Swedish journalist in Hungary.
Beck flies off to Hungary to investigate, staying at the same hotel Matsson checked into.
Soon he's being followed by police and other parties while being no closer to locating Matsson.Like many Scandinavian police procedurals, The Man Who Went Up in Smoke involves a very introspective investigation.
This book was originally published in 1966 and has stood the test of time.
In the foreword to the book, Val McDermid says the Martin Beck series was the precursor to today's police procedurals.
Swedish police detective Martin Beck escapes from his family holiday when invited to investigate a missing person case in Budapest.I love Beck's taciturnity and, indeed, the authorial taciturnity.
Beck's thinking is private, revealed only in actions.
His relationships are economical of words and gestures.
The professional weariness of the police characters is palpable.
There is an aura of under-achievement belied by the ingenuity shown in solving the mystery.Don't expect heroics, quick-silver thinking or an action-packed narrative.
There is no packing; every word is meant.
This is the second book in the Martin Beck series by Maj Sjowall and Per Wahloo.
It's something of an oddity in that much of the book takes place in Budapest, rather than in Sweden where the rest of the series is set.Stockholm homicide detective Martin Beck is looking forward to beginning his long-awaited vacation, but only hours into it he's called back to investigate the disappearance of a Swedish journalist.
Beck reluctantly agrees to take up the search which leads him to Budapest and finds him entangled with an international group of bad guys, one of whom is a nymphomaniac who sets her sights on Beck.This is a good read and Beck is a great protagonist.
An excellent example of the police procedural.
I've been through this book yet again on my way to finishing this entire series for the third time in five years, and I can tell you it just doesn't get old.The writing may be simple, but there is power in the words of Sjowall and Wahloo.
And Martin Beck and his fellows are some of the most convincing cops in all of crime fiction.
There really is no other group of police or investigators I would rather read about, not Wallander and his gang, none of the English or Scottish, and not even Holmes.
I would pick Martin Beck every time.And I'd give anything to play Lennart Kallberg in a film adaptation.
