https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/234888.The_Romantic_Manifesto
It shouldn't attempt to make us empathetic towards those who aren't righteous, because the dregs of society aren't a worthy subject of literature.
And, we are forced to be empathetic (at least a little bit) to characters like Humbert Humbert and Raskolnikov (however you spell his name).
So, while we can all look up to that bitter, womanizing 007 for his pimpjuice and his manliness (they may be synonyms, but I'm not going to ask the O.E.D. or Nelly to find out), we can ALSO read about less idealized characters and be reminded that people are complex and most have a combination of good and bad in them.
We are accordingly off to a standard start in a Rand book, wherein if her mouth is moving, then she is lying.Severe Dunning-Kruger effect on display in such comments as “the humanities have been virtually abandoned to the primitive epistemology of mysticism” (15), “The cognitive neglect of art has persisted” (16), and “the principles are defined by the science of esthetics--a task which modern philosophy has failed dismally” (43).
I don't care if you're talking about Dostoevsky's Crime and Punishment or Mercedes Lackey's fantasy books about talking horses--I can tell you a lot about the values and worldview of the authors only from reading their fiction--ditto about even the most trite work in pulp romance.
Sometimes I think she argued backward to validate her own idiosyncratic tastes, and certainly there are plenty of works of "naturalism" I prefer over works of "romanticism" (I personally found Hugo's Ninety-Three, which I read on her recommendation, overwrought.) But Rand gets at something basic though: that in a lot of the books we love--that what we look for is our values reflected back at us.
Humanity is not ordinary, and needs to be called up.
The glory of man is indeed possible, but only when he reflects the glory of God. Contrarily to Rand, the glory of man is never an end in itself.
The end of man, as the Westminster Confession puts it, is to "glorify God and enjoy Him forever."At times Rand is almost Scougalian, just in the inverse, she writes: "Just as a man's esthetic preferences are the sum of his metaphysical values and the barometer of his soul..." (128).
Some of Rand's opinions about art I happen to disagree with, but overall her ROMANTIC MANIFESTO is, without a doubt, the most cohesive definition of "good art" that I've ever come across.
Rand approaches art from a very elitist and humanistic perspective, and much of the book serves as a pointed critique of the modern trend toward "Naturalism" in art.
Rand argues that the ideals of the Romantic Era resulted in bringing about the pinnacles of human artistic achievement (such as in the work of Victor Hugo, among others), and that the incremental advances of Naturalism in the arts has only served to dilute the quality of art in the modern age.
My third most favorite book of Ms. Ayn Rand " The Romantic Manifesto"(Esthetics), it's the pillar of her foundation, and so was her Epistemology.
Our day has no art and no future.
The future, in the context of progress, is a door open only to those who do not renounce their conceptual faculty ; it is not open to mystic, hippies, drug addicts, tribal ritualist or to anyone who reduces himself to a subanimal, subperceptual, sensory level of awareness.Will we see an esthetic Renaissance in our time?
What I do know is this: anyone who fights for the future, lives in it today.....Ayn Rand.
"Art is the technology of the soul."
I wish I could give this more than 5 stars - or just re-evaluate everything else I've read, such are the standards set by Ayn Rand.The theme of the book is the importance of art in man's life, but to me it was more on the lines of "the meaning of life".
There are several questions I have hopelessly grappled with throughout life, apart from these rare moments when an artist comes along and...it all just makes sense, which for me is a profoundly rare and exultant feeling.
Ayn Rand is one of those artists, and now I know Damien Chazelle is another for making Whiplash and La La Land.

There are two aspects of man’s existence which are the special province and expression of his sense of life: love and art.Reading this book made me think and I was glad to realize that, I would support a Romantic over a Naturalist or a Classicist. Rand, for me is one of those authors, to whom I would nod yes to all of her opinions. It is her conscious reasoning that makes her the best. For example, her articulate ability to denounce photography as an art of any kind makes me angry and love her at the same time.
Portrayal of art unlike any other. Just as always, clear, purposeful, eloquence that brings light to most complex things in life.
I was (.) this close to highlighting the whole book. Highly recommended to everyone -no exceptions. Can not wait to read the author's other work.
In parts, it was, but most of it was a scathing critique of contemporary art and literature, working her way around to her favorite, constant implication: "Ya'll are inauthentic, and you sound like a bunch of pussies."The first third of the book was spectacular.
Art brings man's concepts to the perceptual level of his consciousness and allows him to grasp them directly, as if they were precepts." Nice.One of my favorite parts was when she used classical Greek and middle ages statuary as allegories for man's cultural self-perception.
This is my favorite book, with the possible exception of Nietzsche's Beyond Good and Evil.
It is Ayn Rand's esthetics book.
She interrupts your life to give out a free course in how to think like an artist or philosopher concerning not beauty or art proper, but why there has been a decline and her solution.
She prescribes, as is standard with Rand, objectivism.
She think selfishness has a reason at least that is morally good and superior to any other.
I highly recommend this book if you want to make it as an artist of any kind.
I wish I had read this sooner, like while I was languishing through art school having every crap-tastic parrot-a-modern-artist pseudo aesthetic hoop placed in front of me to jump through?
What if you want people to understand that your art should feel like random paint on cardboard run over by a car?
I do art as an expression of my pleasure and to give my values, morals, and dreams a shape that I can show to people and be understood.
What kind of masochist wants to go on wallowing their life away in suffering, and more importantly, why haven't people asked this sooner?!
Rand is concerned with ethics and how art reveals one's view of humankind (a high view or a low view).
One's "sense of life" is "an emotional, subconsciously integrated appraisal of man and of existence" or "the integrated sum of a man's basic values" (14, 18) and it is the wellspring of the kind of work an artist will create or how humankind will be represented in that art.
In contrasting the opposing senses of life that found naturalist and romantic art, she makes a case for romanticism that is exalting, inspiring, and invigorating.
Full disclosure -- I read a lot of Ayn Rand when I was about sixteen or seventeen.
I read a lot of Hesse, but the only one I was even remotely tempted to reread was The Glass Bead Game.
The thing that most strikes me is that when I was younger I looked to books to find the answers.
Not that I really found them, mind you, but I was looking.Now I look to books for comfort, companionship, and entertainment.
Now more things revealed to me when I write than when I read.Interesting.
Of her non-fiction, this one on esthetics/literature is her most well organized, not including For The New Intellectual which was mostly one (brilliant) essay.
The only fault in her presentation is that it is a collection of essays, as opposed to a book to present the subject.
Still, she presented her view on esthetics of literature fully, and to my knowledge is the only philosopher to have discovered the basis for such an existent as "art" and to have established both its basis in human existence and for a future objective criteria of judgement.
Ayn may have the most rational philosophical basis of thought to ever grace mankind. Her perspective on psycho-epistemology opens worlds of understanding the judgment and action of man. As I read The Romantic Manifesto all I can think is- "there is no convincing enough argument to promote the grandeur of this book... nothing I could say to others could portray the urgency I feel for them to read this book..."The description on the back of the book describes "The Romantic Manifesto" as "...one of the most important achievements of our time..." I AGREE!Read it, you won't be sorry.
What I enjoyed the most from this book was reading the section about how love is not an altruistic but in the contrary, an exchange of values. Ayn Rand has the capacity to weave words with such supreme aggressive-delicacy, that her message is delivered in a most relentless-passionate way. A must-read from Rand's collection.
Romantic Manifesto is an essential read to understand what is Art, how it plays on our consciousness(mind) and why it is important to man. Further to that it is an exposition of Romanticism as opposed to Naturalism.If you want to find out what really is the best type of art -- read the book.
A valuable (introductory) book to better understand the philosophy of art, and the Romantic view in art (as opposed to the Naturalist view).There are some great insights about the elements of a good story, and why art plays an important role in human life.
She introduced me to a world I already knew existed. I just didn't see it.
Only for die hard Ayn Rand fans.
So good. Inspiring.
One of her best non-fiction efforts. Love the idea of focusing on the romantic / heroic side of humanity.
TLDR: her philosophy is about appreciating premises that sculpture an ideal Man. This encompasses of understanding ourselves and where we are. It is a beautiful read.
fave read on philosophy of art
Rand's arguments are thoughtful and well-reasoned. Art should raise the human spirit!
I really enjoyed this one. I think it is my favorite of Rand's non-fiction books. It gave me a better understanding of my feelings on art and actually made me more interested in art itself.
