https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/114184.Blue_Smoke
“Why couldn't the merciful God turn down the sunlight so it wasn't blasting like a red furnace against his aching eyes? Because he'd worshipped the god of beer, thats why. He'd broken a commandment and worshipped the false and foamy god of beer. And now he was being punished.”  I think one of the main reasons I like these Nora Robert's books is that her heroines are smart, independent and strong. The heroes are down to earth and likeable. Catarina (Reena) came from an Italian family. So plenty
“Why couldn't the merciful God turn down the sunlight so it wasn't blasting like a red furnace against his aching eyes?
Because he'd worshipped the god of beer, thats why.
He'd broken a commandment and worshipped the false and foamy god of beer.
And now he was being punished.” 
I think one of the main reasons I like these Nora Robert's books is that her heroines are smart, independent and strong.
The heroes are down to earth and likeable.
Catarina (Reena) came from an Italian family.
So plenty of talk about wine, pizza, antipasto.
He was a fucking cobra,just as patient, just as lethal.
It begins as Nora’s story so often do, with our heroine’s childhood and the traumatic event that will determine the course of her life.
Everything from that point on is just another step toward her desired career as a fire investigator.We follow Reena through various stages of her life, from one traumatic event to the next.
As we follow Reena through her education and the beginnings of her career, Bo is always in the background, dreaming about the mysterious girl he’s never had a chance to meet.
Even though he’s just a touch too perfect, as Nora’s heroes tend to be, he is precisely what our Reena needs.
DNF at page 282It was: "Started off well went meh in the middle the briefly picked up again" By that time though, I didn't care anymore.At first I liked Reena, even if she seemed a little unrealistic at times.
Loved her family and the pizza place, the pride everyone took in it.Reena started to lose her appeal...
He was disturbed sure but I just couldn't muster any strong feelings toward him.I stuck it out till the above mentioned page count but I just couldn't anymore.A miss this time unfortunately but oh well, on to the next read.
Reena has a large family that she is close to and spends a lot of time with, people in the neighborhood know her, and reading about her life and her neighborhood was enjoyable.
This novel illustrates the joy of that type of relationship.In reading the unfavorable reviews, I think that Nora Roberts is in a very difficult position.
If you do not like her J.D. Robb books, give this one a pass, but for those who enjoy reading Roberts for her excellent writing, you will enjoy "Blue Smoke".
If after I stopped I don’t interested to continue it later, I pick other books!
But this one is so good and I read till very late last night!😴😂An arson investigator heroine, very interesting and dangerous job.I don’t know why, but she reminds me to a softer version of Mrs. Roarke!
Lol. Oh maybe I do, she saw too many victims in her line of work, and have a cool head just like Eve.And a hero who fell in love and have a crush to our heroine and never actual met her for 13 years!
Já foi lido em 2014, mas agora é k percebi k n tinha nos "lidos" no Goodreads
This made the ending feel unearned in a way that makes you reevaluate the whole story.
Which is where you find that it really doesn't work because not only was the bad guy too competent in the end, but he was more competent than he should have been all the way up front, too.So yeah, I felt fundamentally cheated and manipulated with the main plot and ended up wishing that this had been a straight-forward romance rather than one of Roberts' thrillers.A note about Steamy: Another area I felt robbed as the main characters get essentially one decent intimate scene with two half-hearted sketches later that feel peremptory, at best.
Other fires have touched those know to Reena, but now it has become very personal and very dangerous.*** I am a huge fan of Ms. Roberts work and applaud her moving more into stories where the emphasis is more on the mystery than the romance.
The excellent characters, relationships, dialogue and sense of place, along with the romance and intimate scenes that are the hallmark of Robert's writing are all here.
Still, it is understandable that Reena doesn't put it together until the end and the final scenes bring the suspense into the story.
- but to me the strength of this story is in the gradual buildup of events through the years, which actually puts more tension into the current-day events.
Above all, I loved the strength of family love and support that Ms. Roberts shows us throughout this story, and the way the Hale family extended that love so completely and naturally to Bo.Here's a couple of my favorite 'mom-isms' from Mrs. Hale: "We're still your parents, and we'll be your parents a hundred years after you're dead.""Your father has realized what was obvious - that I was right."I come from a large family, so this line just seemed so natural to me: "The floor was littered with kids of varying ages, with adults stepping over or around them." Yup, that's how it's done!
When Catarina "Reena" Hale was eleven years old, she watched with her family--father Gib, mother Bianca, sister Francesca, sister Isabella, and brother Xander--as their family business, Sirico's, burned to the ground.
Reena is still in training to become an arson investigator, her life-long dream.
Although it took me four days to read, weighing in at 437 pages and spanning twenty years, the book is a wonderful mix of engaging family saga, taut police/arson procedural, and down and out thriller.
I loved reading about the Hale family and their extended relations, and I'm sure you'll be as enthralled by them as I was.
The movie BLUE SMOKE tells the story of a young girl who sees her family's pizzeria burn to the ground, and she knows she wants to be a firefighter when she grows older. Little did she know that a pyromaniac stalker threatens her life and the life of all she loves and holds dear since that night till this day.Reena and Bo are also soulmates, and I love how he fell for her from day one, and how later on he becomes her neighbor.
3.5 stars. I think I might have read this before as the story feels very familiar. In any case, it's a solid book and Joyce Bean's narration was good as usual.I liked the almost movie-like feel to Bo's first 3 glimpses of Rina (who became his "Dream Girl") before they finally met up 15 years later when she bought the place next to his... talk about fate working slowly...The mystery/suspense side was very evident and I thought the final confrontation slightly anti-climatic. I really enjoyed Rina's family though. They were so loving, loud and fun.
I literally stayed up all night reading this one.In 1985 Baltimore Catarina "Renna" Hale was attacked by her neighbor twelve year old Joey Pastorelli and would have been raped if the neighbors didn't intervene.
Reena's father fought with Joey's abusive dad and that night, the Hale's family pizzeria, Sirico's burns to the ground.
Over the years he sighted his Dream Girl but they never met but when the pair finally get together, lust turns into something more for Bo and the commitment phobic Reena who is afraid that he might be her one and only true love.
Já pensou no que aconteceria se provocasse um sociopata com uma afeição particular pelo fogo?Se ele voltasse anos depois para se vingar discretamente, deixando atrás de si um rasto de crimes horrorosos sem que você conseguisse fazer a ligação?E se de repente ele mudasse o seu modo de agir e começasse a lhe dar pistas?O que aconteceria quando conseguisse "unir os pontos"?
A seguir todos os seus passos?E como sentir-se-ia quando apercebesse que ele tenciona ir atrás de si e da sua família?Sentir-se-ia aterrorizada?
de uma maneira ou de outra.Nora Roberts surpreendeu-me com este livro.

This book is the reason I wish I could stop reading once I realize I can't stand any of the characters. But I can't. Somewhere deep down, I don't want to give up. I just keep hoping that somehow, someway, the book I am reading will get better. In this case, it never does. It's just gross, and graphic, and violent.I've decided I'm not a big Nora Roberts fan. I think she's a sell-out.Don't read this. You've been warned.
Se há algo que adoro na Nora Roberts é que ela é uma grande contadora de história, a fórmula até pode ser sempre a mesma, mas ninguém pode negar que os livros desta autora são entretenimento puro. Opinião completa aqui.http://algodaodoceparaocerebro.blogsp...
I really enjoyed "Blue Smoke", and would have absolutely given it a 5-star review if it hadn't been for one thing -- this was, without a doubt, the most disturbing and twisted novel I've read of Nora Roberts'.
But of all her stand-alone romance/suspense novels, this one dove into the mindset of the villain in WAY more graphic detail than I've read before.
It felt more like her darker J.D. Robb novels at times, and the "feel-good" story that I usually find with Nora's books wasn't necessarily there with this one.
A frustração que me ficou dos vários momentos em que se cruzaram sem que Bo conseguisse chegar a ela a tempo cresceu e fermentou até ao momento em que finalmente Reena e Bo se conheceram - momento esse que é absolutamente delicioso!Como é costume, Roberts não termina verdadeiramente a sua narrativa, deixando o futuro em aberto para nós completarmos… e nem todas as personagens conseguem o seu «Felizes para sempre»…{Blog} http://tempodler.blogspot.pt/
Era destino che tu diventassi mio.»"Devo dire che mi aspettavo molto di meglio, e invece la storia è lenta, ho capito chi fosse lo psicopatico/piromane quasi alla prima pagina e la storia d'amore è relegata alla seconda parte del libro e poco approfondita D: Non mi è piaciuta l'impostazione scelta dalla Roberts, si inizia con una Reena adolescente che per la prima volta incontra il fuoco e ne rimane affascinata, seguendo poi con vari balzi di anni tutte le volte in cui il fuoco si ripresenta nella sua vita strappandole coloro che ama o semplici conoscenti in modo apparentemente casuali.
Romantic Suspense / Thriller / Contemporary RomanceThe Hale family lives in a Baltimore and is the second generation to run Sirico's, an Italian pizzeria. The very Irish Gibson Hale married the lovely Bianca and was quickly assimilated into the family business and the growing Italian family that lived and loved richly in the neighborhood. Their children were loved, going to school and helping in the restaurant and learning the business. However, the attempted rape of 11-year-old Caterina "Reena
The very Irish Gibson Hale married the lovely Bianca and was quickly assimilated into the family business and the growing Italian family that lived and loved richly in the neighborhood.
The hero, Bo Goodnight, is a hunky guy who's fallen in love with Reena when he first sees her at a party during her college days.
A few years later, he again sees her but this time in a crowded mall and again he loses her.
I really loved the strong sense of family this story had, loved the romance between Reena and Bo, but there were many sad moments as well.I think its one of the best by Nora Roberts.
And let me tell you, the books, at least for me, are worlds apart.First problem: the first half of the story.
I couldn’t care less for her choices of boyfriends until the right man came along...Second problem: the heroine.
She had the worst taste in men, I didn’t like her approach to relationships, and she constantly jumped to (wrong) conclusions when the right man came along.Third problem: the predictability.
For someone as smart as she thought she was, the only surprise came from the heroine and her inability to figure it all out sooner.The only redeeming quality for me was the hero—Bowen “Bo” Goodnight.
E por vezes a avaliação depende da disposição com que se está para ler um determinado género de livro.
Por isso tenho de dizer que foi um pouco difícil manter-me interessada no livro, porque já estou enjoada de ler, sobre cadáveres e tortura e tudo o demais.
Logo o problema é meu.O vilão no entanto também era demasiado previsível, o que não ajudou.No entanto o grande ponto forte deste livro, para mim, é o personagem principal masculino.
Adorei Bo Goodnight, e se alguma vez se pode designar um personagem principal masculino com uma grande presença como a de Bo, de "fofo", é aqui que o faço.

it was kinda slow in the beginning and it kept skipping ahead to different years and events but in the end it was a really good book!
Soo glad my grandma got it for me and *Spoiler* I was glad that Bo and Reena had a happy ending!!!
I recently watched the movie to this book, it was a good movie and most of the events were correct but it wasn't really all that good compared to the book.
First, the movie totally left out Bella and in the book she played an important character.
I wouldn't reccomend the movie to anyone because it wasn't that good.
I really liked this book.It centers around a big Italian family living in Baltimore; they own a pizz
the one where she is an arson investigator and he is a carpenter!I was a little disturbed by the scene at the end where (view spoiler)[the bad guy rapes and then burns to death a nice widowed lady. (hide spoiler)] Was not expecting to find that or the word "cunt" in a Nora Roberts book!Not that I'm against swearing in books, just found it surprising.
I really enjoyed this. I liked how Reena and Bo circled around each other for years. It did seem that it took Reena a bit too long to connect all the fires together. I mean, who has fire touch their life *that* much? And the ending seemed a little rushed. But all in all, it was romantic and suspenseful, as any good Nora Roberts should be.
Gostei imenso deste livro!Adorei a Reena, uma jovem corajosa e sem medo de nada, cujo passado foi moldado por um acidente traumático na sua infância. Mas em vez de isso a assustar, ela lutou e foi atrás do seu sonho de sempre: tornar-se bombeira.Como sempre, há um mistério, romance, amizade, muitas surpresas e reviravoltas.Muito bom!
This is terrible. No wonder she can pump out about two a month. Worst book ever. Don't think she knows how to use articles, conjunctions. Very frustrating. Don't read. Sounds like this. Only worse. Well, with sex. So a little better.
