https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/7076706-the-search
This is one of the BEST romantic suspense stories I’ve read this year!I can always count on Nora Roberts to deliver an engrossing and thrilling read.
The Search is a very well-written story with the perfect mixture of breathtaking romance and heart-pounding suspense.
I don’t want to spoil any plot details so I will try to keep this as short as possible.After losing her fiancé to a serial killer who failed to murder her, Fiona Bristow moved to Orcas Island in order to rebuild her life.
You’re not built that way.”“Why would I want anything I had to trick out of you?”“You don’t.” He lifted her, held, then laid her on the bed.
But first, he's got a lot of warm-up killing to do, you know, because it would have been too easy if he had started with her.
So, we have the serial killer thing going on while Fiona and Simon are falling in love.
Because, yeah, like other idiotic men-children, he didn't want to neuter his dog.
Also, apparently itchy?Luckily, as the book went on, I started to appreciate Simon's grouchy sarcasm.
She is part of a team of people with dogs, but she always seems to be the one who finds the lost person.
I read the Search by Nora Roberts and this is one intense read.
The characters Fiona Bristow and Simon Doyle are hilarious which helps during the tense scary parts.
Fiona is a dog trainer and works on the search and rescue canine team.
One of the best Nora Roberts books I have read, and I have read a lot by her as she is one of my most favorite authors.
They almost stole the book away from Fiona and Simon.
Excellent story with a lot of intense moments and many creepy moments with a couple of serial killers.
I enjoyed it, but I swear this read more like a training guide for dogs with a romantic suspense story thrown in for good measure.
Fortunately for me I love dogs to pieces so it wasn’t always boring stuff, but once I finished the book I realized how much of it was just filler fluff and not all that relevant to the story.
His simple bachelor life was melting away right in front of him, and he begrudgingly found himself enjoying the change.The rest of the story centers around dog training, uh, I mean a serial killer reaching out from prison to get redemption for his one and only botched kill.
The Search by Nora Roberts is my all-time favorite novel by this author.It's one of the books I read twice to three times a year.
Not necessarily the search and rescue kind but some other agility training.
So, reading this book, always puts me in such a state, that I'm dreaming about having my own dog.Fiona Bristow, dog trainer extraordinaire and search and rescue volunteer, lived on an island close to Seattle.
She had her dog training business and volunteered on the side for the search and rescue program.
The search and rescue portion of the book was incredibly detailed and full of fascinating information.
My favorite characters in this book had four legs.
Don't get me wrong, Fiona and Simon were great.
But Newman, Peck, Bogart and little Jaws stole the show.
Fiona survived a serial killer.
Now she lives on an island where she trains dogs (or as anyone who has ever trained a dog knows, trains the dog's human) Fiona also heads up a search and rescue team with the dogs.
Simon is a wood carver and carpenter.
He is surprised by it and a little frightened at the feelings.
A great book!
We have a serial killer and we have romance.
That is all great.

4.5 stars.Wow. What a pleasant surprise this book was.I enjoy it enormously. The MC's were awesome and so were the side characters. Each and everyone of the characters had personality, which in my opinion, is a great thing as many writers fail to do that.I liked the third person narration, and none of the chapters were boring.The fact that there was no insta-love, but a slowly built attraction, respect and love, is a massive lesson for those who forget that looks ain't everything.I'm so happy that I've read this one. I'm sure it won't be the last by this author.
If you have a dog and want to train him/her then by all means pick up this book as this reads more like a "how to" guide.
I like dogs but this was overkill.
As for Fiona, I have to agree with another reviewer that it felt like she was training Simon like she trains her dogs.
It's as though after 480 pages Roberts realized she better wrap it up and she did.
I've read a few of Nora Roberts' books and some are hits and some are misses.
I've been getting a little worried because the past couple of Nora Roberts books haven't really tripped my trigger.
Fiona Bristow was kidnapped almost ten years ago, the only survivor of a serial killer who would find single, athletic women, kill them and then bury them in a shallow grave in a national park.
After Fiona managed to escape, the killer went back and killed her boyfriend and his K9 unit.
But then, someone starts imitating the serial murderer who went after Fiona and she is once again thrown into danger.Some fun dog training tips.
Quick review:Cover: Fitting Rating:  NC-17 Thumbs Up:  4.5Overall: Fun and DifferentCharacters: Well Written Plot: Just when you thought you were safe…Page Turner: Yes Series Cont.? Yes Recommend:  YesBook Boyfriend: SimonSUMMARY (50 words or less)I really liked this one a lot. I thought it was different in a way I don’t see often. The characters weren’t cookie cutter. There was fun banter that made me laugh. I just love how the dogs were woven into the story. I liked this one a lot.For a full r
Quick review:Cover: Fitting Rating:  NC-17 Thumbs Up:  4.5Overall: Fun and DifferentCharacters: Well Written	Plot: Just when you thought you were safe…Page Turner: Yes Series Cont.?
Yes Recommend:  YesBook Boyfriend: SimonSUMMARY (50 words or less)I really liked this one a lot.
I thought it was different in a way I don’t see often.
The characters weren’t cookie cutter.
There was fun banter that made me laugh.
I just love how the dogs were woven into the story.
I liked this one a lot.For a full review and yummy pic, see my blog post at:http://www.mybookboyfriend.net/2015/0...Audio ReviewTanya Eby does a fantastic job with the narration.
I enjoyed the dog training aspect of the book, I love dogs, but when a book is titled The Search and the underlying plot is about a serial killer, well you would think it would be more exciting!
I mean c'mon, Fiona survived a kidnapping, the tragic death of her fiance and now it looks like a copy-cat killer is seeking her out to finish the job!
I got a kick out of all the dogs, and even enjoyed the two search and rescue missions Fiona was called out for, but I didn't get the suspense I was expecting.
From there bring in the dogs, Simon and the copy-cat killer.
My first Nora Roberts.... I loved it! Fiona is a great lead.
She relocated herself to Orcas Island in Puget Sound and is devoting her life to dog obedience training and as a volunteer with the Canine Search and Rescue.
Fiona also trains dogs for search and rescue.
They are not complete opposites but the differences make it work.
I found the dog training segments enlightening and illuminating....it told you a lot about Fiona and gave you insight as to why she's a survivor.
Fiona's dogs were loving and typical of the breed.
Otherwise, I found this to be a solid addition to Nora Roberts' body of work.
I didn't mind all the details of the training for the search and rescue, most of it was interesting, but I didn't really enjoy so much detail spent on her job as a dog obedience trainer.
She knew everything because she worked with dogs, and we're all exactly like dogs, you know?Simon was a character I wish I got to know better.
Whenever Simon stayed at her house he respected her unspoken wishes and cleaned up behind himself, even though he's a naturally messy person.
She wasn't even my girlfriend and I started to feel claustrophobic thinking about living with her.Simon and Fiona's relationship was a little odd.
Overall rating: 4 "Pizza Slut" stars!Triggers:Cheating: (view spoiler)[ No (hide spoiler)]Love triangle: (view spoiler)[ No (hide spoiler)]Sex with om/ow: (view spoiler)[ No (hide spoiler)]Intimate pasts: (view spoiler)[ Simon (hero): He has had his fair share of relationships in the past - his last of which was with a famous actress I believe. Fiona (heroine): She was engaged years ago and her fiancee was murdered. She has had casual sex since then maybe once but didn't enjoy it and felt like c
Overall rating: 4 "Pizza Slut" stars!Triggers:Cheating: (view spoiler)[ No  (hide spoiler)]Love triangle: (view spoiler)[ No  (hide spoiler)]Sex with om/ow: (view spoiler)[ No  (hide spoiler)]Intimate pasts: (view spoiler)[ Simon (hero): He has had his fair share of relationships in the past - his last of which was with a famous actress I believe.
I felt like Simon's brass and broody and "bothered" attitude when it came to his little puppy mirrored his relationship with Fiona perfectly.
"Come on, boys, it's time for work."    "I didn't want you because I knew damn well you'd get in my way, and you'd find a way to make me like it.
This is the fourth time I've read this and it still manages to give me a mental vacation. Yes it's romantic suspense but it's also dogs and the magic that is Orca Island. I have to see this gem soon. This is my favorite Nora Roberts.Read the fourth time after adopting a new family member from the Animal Defense League. Dogs are love, furry unconditional love.
3.5 StarsFinally finished this one! Review to come.
Simon started out gruff, impatient, grumpy and a loner and he consistently stayed that way even when he reluctantly found himself in love with Fiona (and Jaws!).
Simon's character never wusses (is that a word?) down, he stays who he is throughout the whole book and I just love it.
So although I loved his character, I would have liked a little bit more of a history for him.
I just personally like a bit more heroine angst in my books.Solid 4.5 stars.
Nora Roberts is a great story teller, writing great characters and romances and it was obvious that the feisty, prickly Fiona and sexy but solitary bachelor Simon were meant for each other.They meet when Simon, a creator of beautiful wooden furniture brings his very bouncy, full of life puppy, Jaws to Fiona for training at her school for dogs.
There's a lot of detail about dog training and the search and rescue missions that Fiona and her team are involved in but I enjoyed that aspect of the book.
Nora Roberts is a little hit and miss with me. I've read a few and almost gagged on my own vomit...but there are a few of her books which do everything right and this is one of them.
Then she made a clear move toward a more modern take on relations between the sexes, and while similarly heavy-handed, I can’t pretend I didn’t appreciate the string of books that had the Hero saying out loud: “But women are stereotypically supposed to be like [X]; I guess it was silly of me to buy that because you are clearly like [Not X]” or the Heroine being less emotionally available but wising up to the fact that it’s not unmanly to put your feelings out there or be an artist instead of a cop or UFC fighter or whatever.
4 solid stars for the h Fiona and the dogs!Our H Simon is blunt, gruff, socially stunted and cynical.
It grated on my nerves when he told the heroine He doesn't find her beautiful and told her four times, she's not his type.
I thought, they are perfect for each other.Our h Fiona is a survivor of a crime.
I love her.
She's strong, kind and she's a dog trainer.
"Being scared doesn't make me weak.
Being scared means I'll do anything and everything I have to do to defend myself".
And I love the dogs on this one.
Leído hace tiempo. Está bien. Heroína alfa. Masculino de apoyo.
Fiona Bristow was living her life doing the things that made her the happiness.
When Simon Doyle brings his new pup Jaw’s to Fiona for training she can’t help but get those tingly feelings when she first sees him.
Her life was about to get a bit more interesting.Simon ~ he was funny, sweet and sexy.
Training dogs to search and recover missing people is what she thrives on but when her past begins to haunt her once again Fiona is forced to be vigilant.
I absolutely loved the sense of peace that Simon gave to Fiona.
What she needed was a good man like Simon in her life.
There just was something about him that I didn't warm to.
It's hard to explain but this couple just didn't do it for me.
Yes, I at sometimes smiled over them and there were a few sweet parts but it just wasn't enough for me.The book got a bit better as it neared the end and the excitement picked up a bit.
It took a bit to get through the first half of the book but once I did that I was able to enjoy the rest of it.
Even though I wasn't a big fan of this couple they did have some good moments.
2.5 stars
I initially thought that "The Search" was going to be a very good romantic suspense novel, but I ended up disliking the male hero so much that it ruined any enjoyment I previously had and then soured me on the book.
Bah to this book."The Search" is about Fiona Bristow who lives on an island near Seattle.
Him going around and telling Fiona how things would be, him getting angry at her and telling her she wasn't going to handle him like her dogs was disparaging and nasty.
I kept wishing the serial killer copy cat would murder Simon.“For me there is.
The heroine (Fiona) was strong without being harsh/bitchy, the hero (Simon) was a delightful combination of handsome, competent, loyal, and cranky without ever becoming annoying.
But the real stars were Fiona's and Simon's dogs.
Ms. Roberts did an amazing job giving each dog their own distinct personality and they lit up the page every time they made an appearance.The suspense plot is skillfully threaded into the romance, creating a tension that builds throughout the story and puts Fiona through the emotional wringer.
Still, the book manages to have its share of laugh out loud moments (especially when Simon's working with his new puppy) to break up the tension.
Another good read from Ms Roberts. I am not sure if it can really be categorised as Romantic Suspense. Less suspense than most of the "suspense" books I read. I love her heroines. Fiona was strong and independent. She watched the man get out. Tall, a lot of dark hair, scarred boots, worn jeans on long legs. Good face, she decided, sharp planes, sharp angles blurred by the shadow of stubble that said he'd been too busy or too lazy to shave that morning ...  Jaws  "You know, given my line of work,
Another good read from Ms Roberts.
Less suspense than most of the "suspense" books I read.
Tall, a lot of dark hair, scarred boots, worn jeans on long legs.
Good face, she decided, sharp planes, sharp angles blurred by the shadow of stubble that said he'd been too busy or too lazy to shave that morning ...
"What is it about the way a woman's hair falls?" He speared his hands through it, locked his eyes on hers.
Of course I loved how Simon Doyle had an Irish connection.
"Actually I know how to say 'fuck off' in Irish."
