https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/126177.A_Chance_to_Die
I feel conflicted as to how to review and rate this book as there were so many positive and negative aspects.Amy believed she was called to China but subsequently ended up in India where she ministered for 55 years--with over a decade spent as a "shut-in" after an accident.
She effectively created an organisation to house these children but referred to it as a "family." She employed staff to help her--the organisation grew and expanded to form "Dohnavur," which still exists as a Christian charity today.I appreciated Amy's love for those around her and her determination in her work and ministry.
Having read this several times before going to India as a missionary myself, I was greatly encouraged in everything about Indian soil.I tried my hardest to follow in Ms. Carmichael's footsteps.
Her faith, above anything, was what I geared towards.I first read the book at age 12, and then re-read it and re-read it again during preparation for my first trip to India when I was 18.
I could NOT wait to get there!I loved the book - especially from Mrs. Gren's perspective - it was a very enjoyable read...
I totally disagree with women missionaries who, in order to serve God to their fullest ability, shun the idea of marriage.
She saw my love for kids and wanted me to read this book.
I did like her a lot when I first read "Amy of Dohnavur" by Frank L.
Anyway, I am glad that I read this book because it gave me a more complete view of Amy where I don't love her the way I did before I knew her this way, and it's also super fat and to add it to my bookshelf and say I read it is also awesome.
Wiersbe's book: 50 People Every Christian Should Know.
It appeared that Amy feared no one - and she made alot of people angry in the process: I applaud her.
Sure she upset many people, but in dangerous life and death times Amy did her best - her community loved her for it.She never married, her life was for the children and the community.
I hope she is rewarded mightily in Heaven.I read this book hoping to understand clearly her theology.
I'm relieved to say she stuck to God's Word as best she could.
I find it extremely balanced!!I remember at one point, i was thinking why would someone write about such uninteresting facts like a sickening journey or of common days (after days after days), but realized in the end, it is this together with patience and motivation that builds up character.
Nonetheless I still find it unexplainable how this very common woman nearly 100 years ago, could build up and lead till her later 80s and despite all the sickness, a community such as the DF...
A wonderful introduction to an amazing Godly woman. A true servant of Christ with much wisdom that we can still benefit from today.
Amy Carmichael is one of my favorite missionaries, and this biography by Elisabeth Elliot was a unique look into her life unlike other biographies I've read.
It felt more personal, perhaps, since the author took efforts to include many personal writings and such in the book.
No one is perfect, though, and although I admire much of Amy Carmichael's life and work, I wouldn't say that I agreed with all of her personal beliefs (or perhaps lack of beliefs in certain areas...)?
Still, her life of devotion and dedication to God is one that still stands as a tremendous example in this day and age.
She became aware of the practice in India, of a way that people got rid of their unwanted children and babies.
Never soliciting funds for this outreach, people in England learned of her desire to found a safe haven for these children.
This book recounts over and over again, the way God provided for her at every level of need.
She was fond of sending notes of love and encouragement to those on the Center grounds as well as those who were expressing an interest in coming from England to serve.
The children who grew up at the Center loved her.
The entire focus of Carmichael's life was in the mission work entrusted to her by God in India.I've read remarks that she was against marriage.
See Isaiah 50:7, Luke 9:51.A Chance to Die is written chronologically, from birth (1867) and childhood in Ireland, to her "calling," to the first missionary journey to Japan, and her lengthy mission work in India, until death in 1951.Quotes are often mentioned from Carmichael's books.Carmichael was a devoted reader of the devotional Daily Light.
I'm familiar with this book as I have read from it daily since 1999.One of the most interesting and sad aspects of the book for me was Carmichael's work with the children in India.
I admire Amy Carmichael’s life-long passion to follow Jesus and serve disenfranchised children.
The ministry grew to over 300 children, and Amy had to secure her own building for the ministry.
God providentially sent her to India where she served for the remainder of her life.
Over the years the ministry faced immense financial hardships, poor facilities, outbreaks of deadly disease, internal strife, and the constant threat of government intervention.
I was convicted by Amy’s relentless and risky love for the children.
Amy's life story starts out a little dry, but when you follow her to India and realize the challenges she had every single day, the story takes you into another world and into the mind and heart of one of the Saints "who from their labors rest; to Thee, by faith, before the world confessed".
“Her great longing was to have a 'single eye' for the glory of God. Whatever might blur the vision God had given her of His work, whatever could distract or deceive or tempt others to seek anything but the Lord Jesus Himself she tried to eliminate.
This was the goal of her life.I loved her commitment to keeping Christ as the main attraction.
When someone suggested to her that she should offer sewing lessons or some other handiwork classes in order to attract the girls to come, she said, “I would rather have two who came in earnest than a hundred who came to play.
"The devil does not care how many hospitals we build, any more than he cares how many schools and colleges we put up, if only he can pull our ideals down, and sidetrack us on to anything of any sort except the living of holy, loving, humble lives, and the bringing of men, women and children to know our Lord Jesus Christ not only as Savior but as Sovereign Lord."Every work undertaken in obedience to a divine command, whether the work be that form of conflict with the powers of darkness that we call prayer, or whether it be the action that follows, leads sooner or later to a new demand on personal devotion to our Lord Jesus Christ."-- Amy Carmichael, quoted on Page 291 of "A Chance to Die.""A Chance to Die" is a biography of a remarkable woman written by another remarkable woman.Author Elisabeth Eliot served as a missionary to the Quichua and Auca Indians of South America for 11 years.
I could not have said it any better than Jennifer Nelson's review. Her sentiments are mine, EXACTLY.
Probably one of my favorite biographies of all time.
My Confidence.Thou art able to keep that which I have committed unto Thee.My Joy.To do Thy will, O God.My Discipline.That which I would not choose, but which Thy love appoints.My Prayer.Conform my will to Thine.My Motto.Love to live, live to love.My Portion.The Lord is the portion of mine inheritance.’”“’Teach us, good Lord, to serve Thee as Thou deservest; to give and not to count the cost; to fight and not to heed the wounds; to toil and not to seek for rest; to labor and not to ask for any reward save that of knowing that we do Thy will, O Lord our God.’” (Pg. 241-242).“’A sovereign God, however, works through flawed human instruments to whom He has given the power of choice.
I enjoyed the first few chapters about Amy Carmichael's youth, but somehow my interest waned toward the end; I had to make myself finish it just for the sake of finishing it, without really caring about the story.
Maybe it has to do with my own age, but I failed to identify with the more mature Amy Carmichael, and so my empathy decreased.
The author's language is too laborious and deliberate; I got the impression that the book was written conscientiously rather than passionately, with the intention of making readers like Amy Carmichael at all cost rather than just telling the story.
I started reading it because a friend recomended it then gave me a copy.
Within this past week I have not only finished one of the most incredible books I have ever read, but I have found one of those few books that works its way into your heart and stays there.
I am currently morning the fact that now that I am done and I will have to give this copy back to my friend.
The book is challenging and made me think twice about a faith that I hold dear.
It has caught my heart in a way that few books have.
People seem to either really love this book or find it completely unreadable & I can see why.
The manner of Amy Charmichael's upbringing reminded me of Little Women-- strong Victorian ideals, lots of spiritual nurturing and sentimental nicknames ("Motherie"?
One of the best things about this book is that it illustrates that people really lived this way once.
Amy truly believed that the highest spiritual standards should be attempted.
It may be difficult for a person in the 21st century to be interested in, or even believe the story of this person who was thought "too religious" by some in mid-nineteenth century Britain.

This is a wonderful book. It is the story of Amy Carmichael, a woman who gave her life to rescuing children from temple prostitution in India. It challenges the reader to confront what Amy referred to as "nominal Christianity". As I read about Amy Carmichael's dedication to Jesus and all that she gave up for the sake of the Kingdom I was convicted and inspired. Elliot does a wonderful example of protraying Amy just as she was: a real woman in the midst of a real battle.
Fascinating, encouraging, and very readable. Elliot managed to portray Amy Carmichael in all her glory without putting her on a pedestal. Definitely recommended for people who want a nice intro to Amy Carmichael (or for people like me, who have only read children's biographies). Elliot is a talented writer and her admiration for the wonder that was Amy's spiritual life (especially her prayer life) comes through on every page. I'm very glad that I read it.
Truly inspiring. Thought provoking and convicting without meaning to be so. This is a book I will come back to again and again.
This is a great, honest look at Amy. Elliot not only talked about the many wonderful things she did, but also her faults.
A challenging story of a woman who trusted God completely, walked intimately with Him, and saved the lives of many.A book someone tells you "changed my life"
3.5 stars This is a hard one to review. A lot of it was dry and hard to get through and maybe a bit repetitive. I appreciate her heart for the Lord, her example of prayer and self sacrifice. But, some of her beliefs were off, and her attitude and opinion about men and marriage were not quite right.
Excellent book by an excellent author. Amy was not without fault however she knew well the union she had in Christ. She was prepared to suffer in any way because He had suffered for her.
Not really a review, just my personal opinion: The book was pretty choppy and not laid out very well. It held a lot of information that I had not previously known about Amy, but the book was as dry as cracker juice. 😂
~~~From Scraps, a family writing, what she thought regarding raising/giving money:"And they came both men and women as many as were willing-hearted, and brought bracelets and earrings and tablets and jewels of gold, and every man that offered, offered and offering of gold unto the Lord." (Exodus 35.22) Three things we may notice:1st as many as were willing-hearted2nd brought their own possessions3rd unto the Lord.Now we give unto Mrs. So and So who wrote us a begging letter, or Miss So and So who called the other day with a collecting card and unfortunately we were in and could not get off without giving her something.
)Some definite faults that I saw were that Amy seemed independent and headstrong, which are two qualities that don't seem in keeping with a Christian life.
She often refused counsel from others, seeing all other opinions as being contrary to what God wanted.
I am not denying that Amy Carmichael led a life far removed from what anyone then, or now, would attempt, and that she was upheld by the Lord.
There were many instances where I was convicted by an inspiring quote or by her ceaseless activity for the Kingdom of God. She refused to waste a single moment of her time.
