https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/7579.Awakening_the_Buddha_Within
In a very un-Buddha-like way, my wife manipulated me into reading this. She also talked bribed me into accompanying her to a meditation center. I promised her I wouldn't ask the meditation instructor about tantric sex. I didn't keep my promise. To avoid incurring negative karma, I gave this book an extra star.
This is the book that turned me on to Buddhism.
This shift pulled me out of a major depression, improved my relationships with my family and allowed me to find my soul mate.
Whenever I need help in dealing with a difficult situation or person or just need an attitude adjustment I return to it and it has never failed me.
It is an introduction to Buddhism for Westerners.
If you are curious about Buddhism or just need an attitude adjustment yourself, you should check it out.
This book tells you how to live like a Buddhist, without being a monk. There are behaviors in life we can all practice and you don't have to renounce Christianity to be a part of it. Treat others better, find meditation in everything you do, and be a better person.
This is one of those rare, mind-boggling books that has the power to stay with you for a very long time.
While I have read other books on Buddhism before, this was an excellent introduction and refresher that covered everything from the Four Noble Truths and the Eight-Fold Path to the power of meditation.
Truth is found by living truly- in your own authentic way."- Search inward for answers.- Unrealistic expectations tarnish our appreciation of life.- Do not reduce life to an ongoing competition.- "No one has a corner on the market of truth."- You must acknowledge that enlightenment is a real possibility.- "The Buddha never said he would save you; in Buddhism you save yourself." (This is a big one for me.
This is my favorite spiritual book ever, and in fact, my favorite non-fiction book of all-time.
If I can only suggest one introduction to Buddhism from a Western perspective, this would be it.
Lama Surya Das simply and effectively presents the principles and outlooks of the East, with a foot firmly planted in our "real world" of the West.I always highlight all of my books with my favorite passages and quotes to turn back to.
This one has beeen re-read so many times it is highlighted, starred, dog-eared, and post-it-ed for four levels of awesomeness.
Absolutely my desert island book.
I have already read this book twice on my Kindle, so you know I value the wisdom and light shown on the history of Western Buddhism.
If you want to better understand how Buddhism came to the US and its ongoing evolution in our culture, this is a very readable description of how that is coming about.
If you want to better understand the tenets of Butddhism, the eightfold path, and the three enlightenment trainings present in all types of Buddhism, this book will painlessly heighten your understanding.
If you want some practices to help you settle into meditation, you will find them here.
I held onto to it for most of that time, and only began it about a month ago.
I've read many things in the past about Buddhism and mindfulness, but this book has been one of the books that has helped things "click" for me.
This may not be true...maybe this book was just better than other things I've read.This book really progressed me, I think, in terms of examining my own thoughts and motivations.
It's no coincidence that, in the midst of reading this book, I came across another book that I am reading now, Mindfulness in Plain English, which I believe will be even more helpful.
This is a book that will remain with me throughout my life. I have read it a couple of times and listened to it as well. It is a definite must read for anyone seeking growth and spiritual awakening.
There are a number of books which follow this book's format (4 noble truths and the 8 fold path) in illustrating Buddhist philosophy. This version was just right for me. The writing is clear, personal and instructive. The author's observations and anecdotes are effectively woven into this standard introduction to Buddhism. I haven't read any of the author's other books, but I imagine they're worth reading as well.
This was the first buddhist book I ever read. It is the reason for me finding my home in spirituality. It is well written, clear and moving. You will learn a lot from this book and it will help you find your path. I recommend this book to anyone searching for a spiritual direction.
Full review at TheBibliophage.com.In this short book, Lama Surya Das introduces readers to Buddhism, and the process of Awakening the Buddha Within.
He now teaches, writes, and runs the Dzogchen Center in New York State.Das walks readers through the main principles of Buddhism, always relating them to life in the West.
I certainly was, since I listened to the audio book!If you’re looking for a short, relevant explanation of Buddhist principles, Lama Surya Das is your guy.
Because he’s a Westerner, his ability to place the principles in a context that makes sense for Western lives is unique.
Obviously I would have to have more patience, but right off the bat it seemed heavy handed on the religious aspect and the alleged superior wisdom of lamas who live heirarchical, cloistered lives and yet possess all the answers (not unlike catholic monastics)For some reason I'd thought Buddhism was kind of like a religion for non-religious people, a way to achieve spiritual tranquility without dogma, and he at one point says something to that effect...but then at other points he lists out fun stuff you have to give up - if you really want to be at peace, that is.
Written by an American who became a Tibetan Lama, this book gives readers a solid course in Buddhist concepts.
Lama Surya Das continues to enlarge his explanations with the following 3 important sections that are valuable "how to" guides: Wisdom Training Ethics Training Meditation TrainingThese chapter titles are examples of how the author continually points out to the reader that they already have the knowledge he is telling them about: “Seeing Things as They Are”, “Plumbing Your Wise Buddha-Nature”, and “Keeping Your Eyes Open”.
Surya Das is, he says, simply helping people to unveil the "Buddha within."
I've been looking for my spiritual path for quite some time, and I've always been interested in Buddhism, but so far, I've found books on Buddhism to be inaccessible for me.
My husband suggested that I try reading this.
I feel like I finally understand what Buddhism is meant to be and that there is such a thing as contemporary, Western Buddhism.
Lama Surya Das distills the four noble truths and the eight fold path in a comprehensible fashion for a western reader.
I know I will be coming back to this book again and again for the specific suggested meditations.
For me, this is the quintessential life guide. I have read it a few times throughout the years; I re-visit it when I feel I need a refresher, and will continue to do so probably for the rest of my life. It's so simple and approachable, yet intricate and profound at the same time. Highly recommended.
This book was recommend as an introduction to Buddhism. Suyra Das writes of his experiences learning from elders in Tibet, spending years in silence and bringing his teaching to the modern world. He breaks down core principles and applies an ancient "religion" to our fast paced western culture.
He addresses issues like trying to meditate during a busy day on the subway and compares the Buddha mind to a pan coated with teflon.
He pays attention to the idea of a new Western Dharma that is evolving out of the synthesis of traditional Eastern practices and the Western mentality.
There's a lot of emphasis put on practice and especially on meditation practice.
He regularly gives ideas for meditation practices or even just recitations to help people out.
I'd have loved an index of all his practice suggestions somewhere in the book, though since most come at the end of segments they're not too hard to find.
This was a Great Read.For anyone considering either practicing Buddhism or gaining a general understanding of the philosophy of Buddhism, I would recommend this Book.Regardless of your religion, beliefs, etc. you can gain a great insight into a way to view the world and more importantly, as Buddhism drives, View Yourself!The insight into meditation, calming your mind, practicing Awareness and Mindfulness are beneficial to anyone in any walk of life. Whether it be with your family, your friends, your co-workers, etc. you can benefit by living in The Moment, This Moment, Every Moment.
Lama Surya Das is a Jew, before he travelled to Tibet and converted to Buddhism, now he is a leading Buddhist leader in America. This book is a "relaxing" read because I feel he is sincere on what he is talking, no wonder to many, it even "enrich their spiritual lives". It contains many wits, wisdoms as well as humours. I love nature and all of Emerson & Thoreau's thoughts, so I enjoy reading this book, that's all I can say.
I'm rereading this book SLOWLY. I tend to read very fast and loose the content days later.This is an amazing book on Lama Surya Das' journey from Long Island to Tibet. And a great Buddhism for beginners book though that that description does not do it justice.Enjoy:).
I have learned how to live... and breathe.
In his 20’s he began a spiritual journey that took him to Tibetan Buddhism where he eventually became a respected scholar and teacher, he now goes by the name and title of Lama Surya Das. His objective in this book is to explore and explain Eastern wisdom and practice to a Western audience.
His emphasis is in Dzogchen, which is a Tibetan non-sectarian tradition of Buddhism.
. Lama Surya Das argues that within each of us lies a potential enlightened-self, which he calls the Buddha within: “Enlightenment- whether you call it spiritual awakening, liberation, illumination, or satori-- means prolonged inner transformation and self-realization.” p 14.
Make me one with everything.A thorough exploration of a Buddhist conceptual framework for being spiritually awake.
Some surprising resonances with other faith traditions, such as the passage that reminds us, "Spiritual masters are able to be in the world but not of it.
Bring it back by tugging gently on the leash of mindfulness." Isn't that great?
Then there's the line where he refers to a Buddha mind as being Teflon-coated.
Das' genius is that he can teach westerners this oriental philosophy without watering it down or turning it into spiritual cotton candy.
I think a lot of people I know who would read this book would think "Yeah, that makes sense" or "I knew that innately but now here are the words to confirm it."I studied Buddhism - among other religions - while in college so the concepts were familiar to me.
One to keep in the nightstand and read a bit before bed or in the morning so that every so often, you can look at the Eight Fold path to remind yourself what to do every day, every moment.
I enjoy this book. Very interesting. I liked the first half of this book very much. I enjoyed learning about some of the reasons behind the practices I see around me. I'm impressed with spiritually and loving-kindness. To Live in Love. The 8 steps flow from love and are intuitive. I would only give the second half of this book a three. It was on different meditations. Since I don't see myself meditating for hours everyday it wasn't as much fun to read.
For anyone who is interested in the basic/fundamentals of Buddhism, this is the book for you. It is written in lay man terms and easy to understand. THis book lays out all the fundamentals of practice in a clear and concise manner, adding to it a sense of humor. It takes the precepts of Buddhism and places them in our modern day world and teaches one how to begin and stay on the path.
This book really opened my eyes and helped me regain my spiritual path. You don't have to be Buddhist to benefit from Lama Das's words. If you are interested in uplifting and inspirational spiritual message, I recommend this book.
This was helpful to me in understanding Buddhism better. I've finally got the 8-fold path down and understand the 3 jewels. I get the 4 Noble Truths better. Altogether helpful. I'm glad I read it. I think having it explained by a Westerner was really good for me.
I have read this three times, at least. I find myself reaching for it a chapter or a segment at a time, over and over. It is very grounding and resonates so well with me.
Couldn't finish it. Too much woo-woo for me.
