https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/525304.Star_Maker
This novel disproves the general assumption that golden age SF is either hokey or unscientific.In fact, it starts out like a strong hard-SF exploration novel touching on many possible alien races, mindsets, and physiologies, but it dives right down the rabbit hole into vast combined telepathic minds, galactic societies that actually are GALACTIC in scale, telepathic communication with multiple galaxies, and even to the discovery the rich stellar intelligence.
This novel is just as valid and fun today as it must have been back in 1937.
It's as good as any of the most vast-spanning hard-SF of today.
"...to discover what part life and mind were actually playing among the stars." I absolutely loved this.
Plant people, composite minds, intelligent stars - and an exploration into some of life's biggest questions.
This book is a history of the universe, told by an Englishman who mysteriously floats into the sky one night while contemplating its immensity.
But what it does have is a beautifully crafted series of interwoven alien histories, sci-fi-type hypotheses, and spiritual and philosophical musings.
One thing that surprised me is how specific some of the answers to these big questions get toward the end.
There's a theory that, no matter what the author appears to be writing about, really he's writing about himself.
I find this theory quite appealing, and, even though I don't believe it 100%, I think it's often a good way to try and understand why you like a book.Star Maker is an interesting test case.
In an earlier book, Last and First Men, the author described the billion-year future history of the human race.
The human race just appears for an incidental sentence or two; we aren't important in this larger scheme of things.The rest of this review is available elsewhere (the location cannot be given for Goodreads policy reasons)
This is not an easy read, but incredibly important one. The author takes us on a journey of ideas and concepts and in process completely alters our sense of scale, both spacial and temporal. Stapeldon was truly a pioneer of SF for bringing us truly big ideas.
We are then treated to a mind-blowing series of encounters with ever greater and stranger life forms, as the scale expands by increasing series of magnitudes, until individual galaxies and universes have formed united spirits and proceed to seek the ultimate creator of the universe.
Olaf Stapledon’s descriptions of the Star Maker's efforts in the final part of the book are truly mind-bending, and bring to mind the latest ideas of quantum universes, infinite probabilities, the curvature of space-time, and the origins of the universe.
The narrator starts as 'I', then turns into 'we', sometimes 'human', then a cosmic consciousness; and at one point something like (but not exactly) a demi-god.
I experienced only an increasing exhilaration and a delightful effervescence of thought." And so it goes on, like an astonishing, amazing dream.The narrator encounters many forms of life, many different kinds of intelligence.
The narrator starts by staring at the stars, into which he is drawn in a kind of dream or vision.
It is 'Who, or what, is the Star Marker?' The narrator goes in search of God.I loved the complex experience of finding the Star Maker.
In some ways, I think the book is about size.
It does contain some really cool ideas about extraterrestrial species (and some somewhat less accessible/relevant/persuasive ideas about the organization of the universe), but it reads like a textbook.
There is no real character/narrator, just a frame story about "mental interstellar travel" that allows the text to move around from planet to planet.
There are no actual stories that happen on these planets, just summaries.
I did, however, discover the best way to get acquainted with the innovative ideas buried in the book -- have your fellow book club members, who actually did finish the book, recap the cool bits and save you the reading time.
All hail the master Stapledon! With his no plot, no struggle, no conflict, textbookshual novels, hahaha. It stands on its own as a gorgeous and inventive investigation of humanity, but I also can't help but see this as an allegory of pre- and inter-war year tensions, with alien depictions reflecting early 20th assertions of national identity, as if Stapledon is trying to pinpoint the common bit of humanity left in the ruthless world powers of the 1930s. Another for the re-read shelf! Another for the speculative reference shelf!
This is the first of 25 books in a list I've drawn up for myself of works of science fiction to read in 2016.The basic idea of Star Maker is quite simple, but extremely ambitious: If a human consciousness could detach from the body in order to explore the universe, what would it discover?
not only to explore the depths of the physical universe, but to discover what part life and mind were actually playing among the stars." (p.13)I remember reading in The Book of Lies by Aleister Crowley, the epigram, "The universe is a joke made by the general at the expense of the particular."In the quote above, from page 13 of the book, Stapledon signals his bold intent to discover the place of the particular (joke or otherwise) within the general.
Ο αφηγητής εκκινεί από τη σχέση με τη γυναίκα του και στην πορεία, αφού απεκδυθεί με ανεξήγητο τρόπο τη σωματική του υπόσταση, ξεκινά ένα επικό ταξίδι μέσα στα νεφελώματα και τις διαστρικές εκρήξεις, για να φτάσει μέχρι τα απώτατα όρια του σύμπαντος και να συναντήσει τον ίδιο τον Δημιουργό.
Ένα φιλοσοφικό μυθιστόρημα για την πορεία του ανθρώπινου είδους μέσα στον χώρο και τον χρόνο και τη σχέση του με το Θείο, μια μεγαλειώδης σύλληψη που αποθεώνει συγκινητικά την ενότητα όχι μόνο του ανθρώπου αλλά και ολόκληρου του σύμπαντος.
An amazing, challenging tour of the universe through the eyes of a cosmic voyager growing gradually into a transcendent vision of Creation and Eternity. Mixes everything from Einstein to Buddha and astrophysics to strange life forms in megagravity environments. Never read anything like it. Great prose style, and especially remarkable for the fact it was written just as WWII was a gathering storm. That is, pre Zen in the West, pre marijuana and LSD, pre Fritjof Capra, but more in tune with the Cosmos than all of these. For some additonal info, see: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Star_Maker
Y claro, ya se sabe que un libro que habla de un futuro y del universo tiene que ser ciencia ficción sí o sí, ¿verdad?Premisa: un señor inglés se pone a mirar las estrellas y tiene un viaje astral de eones a lo largo y ancho del cosmos por el pasado, el presente, el futuro y otras realidades.
Por eso el primer tercio del libro trata de cómo sociedades de seres en un momento evolutivo similar al nuestro pueden superar sus diferencias y unirse en un ideal común para llegar a ser una mente planetaria, manteniendo su independencia como seres.
“Star Maker”, by Olaf Stapledon, is an incredible novel by an author whose contributions to science fiction are unique and serve as inspiration to many of the greatest works in the field.
As with “Last and First Men”, “Star Maker” is not a conventional novel, so if that is what you are looking for, you should look elsewhere.
The echos of Stapledon’s ideas can be read in the works of numerous authors and in some of the greatest works of science fiction.This book was tied for 13th on the Arkham Survey in 1949 as one of the ‘Basic SF Titles’.
It is near impossible to imagine a novel with a greater scope than this one, which spans all of cosmic eternity from big bang to the energy death of the universe...
In Stapleton's convulsively expanding reference frame humans are almost immediately inconsequential, and shortly thereafter almost any reference to specific planet or even solar system.
Some narrative momentum and personal attachment is sacrificed to the remarkable breadth, but this is necessary, and he gets around the problem admirably.
reviews.metaphorosis.com 3.5 stars A man suddenly acquires the power to travel mentally throughout all dimensions of the universe, from creation to conclusion. He traces the development of many kinds of life while seeking signs of a postulated creative force.  This is possibly the dullest interesting book I've read, or vice versa. It's seldom that it takes me this long to complete a book (even the dread Alexandria Quartet felt faster), and it could almost be said of this novel that I "couldn't p
Stapledon tosses off interesting and novel ideas every few pages, including the original Dyson sphere.
The main story kicks off on "Other Earth", with what seems a thinly-veiled polemic against capitalist materialism.
If it reads more like a thought experiment than a story, that's not inaccurate.
'Human', in this book, means roughly 'intelligent life'.
This is not a warm and fuzzy YA story, and to his credit, Stapledon doesn't duck the hard questions.
I found Stapledon's answer to have too strong a religious tinge for my taste, but it's clearly something he (and his narrator) thought long and hard about.
Just enough to be dangerous.Basically, the narrator goes on a magical journey through time and space, sees lots of aliens, and meets god "the star maker".
But he uses lots of funny words like "human" and "man" to refer to aliens, which gets confusing.
He's doing a British thing where "human" is synonymous with "humane", and where "man" implies a thinking mind.He uses other words that are shockingly different, in modern reading, than the author seems to have intended.
Also, there are bizarre themes of Utopia and galactic Libertarianism that strike me as pitifully naive.The narrator just asks us to accept unjustified ideas like a whole star that is alive with its own "mind".
Instead, Star Maker is a chronicle of the future of the Galaxy, the Universe, and beyond.At its heart, Mr. Stapledon's book reads half like a chronicle of the future, half as a philosophical treatise on the meaning of existence and the yearning for lucidity and understanding.
Star Maker eventually takes a turn for the religious, but it does so with enough of a sense of allegory and myth that it doesn't lose its philosophical potency.
Still, it bears mentioning that at its core, Star Maker is a religious book.
It repeats the original structure, with a series of specific, detailed histories that eventually generalize and summarize, pulling back to show the entire grand scope.
Its narrator continues to return to the topic of the Star Maker, the Supreme Being, and as stellar societies merge into galactic civilization and galactic mind, and half a million galaxies pull into synchronization and telepathic accord, the vast, inconceivable mental entity's only purpose is to commune with the Divinity and somehow reach meaning or answers or justification for all the failed species and suffering.
The plot is fairly simple; our unnamed narrator while contemplating the infinite on an evening walk, goes on a psychic trip through the galaxy and beyond.
At the novel's climax this roving collective beholds the final death of the universe and the 'ultimate moment' the encounter with our creator the titular Star Maker - the hypercosmic intelligence engaged in creating universe after universe, to whom sapient beings are an unforeseen by-product, observing their trials and tribulations with simultaneous empathy and 'diabolic glee'.
We die knowing that the promise of further glory outlives us in other galaxies.
We die praising the Star Maker, the Star Destroyer."
Written in the late 1930's, Stapledon was perhaps a bit ahead of his time, or at least, it seems at least as relevant today as it must have been back then.I would describe the book as a creation myth for the secular age.
Though conjectural - it is a myth, after all - much of what Stapledon imagines conforms to scientific ideas of astronomy and biological evolution, even by today's standards, as far as I can judge.More importantly, this is one of those precious books that speak to the heart and the mind at the same time, in an age where the former is often neglected by those writing for the latter.
perhaps i shall return to it at some point, I know i put Jude the obscure aside when I was about 20 and then took it up again and read it about 15 years later.
the problem with that scenario would be the sneakiest suspicion that 15 years would take me way past any interest I would have in completing a novel i find totally porridge-like in its stodginess.
I think it might be one to launch myself at when there is nothing else to read in reach but I have to say the back of the cereal box at breakfast holds more attraction at the moment.
If a weird, science-named cult religion had spun off from this book, rather than by a pulp writer named Hubbard twenty years later, I would have no hair, no material possessions, and you would find me at your door with fliers to join. My only complaint is the heavy reliance on telepathy as the medium for movement and character interaction. Also, there isn't much plot, in any traditional sense, which is probably why no one ever reads this book.
But the closer he gets to utopia, the more he displays the things that expose socialism for what it is, at root, in ways that give us a glimpse of not just an outdated worldview, but one that led to massive death and destruction.The worlds that survive to a greater consciousness all exhibit “a remarkable identity.”For instance, in the loosest possible sense, all were communistic; for in all of them the means of production were communally owned, and no individual could control the labour of others for private profit.
The book starts out as an interstellar travelogue and becomes a meditation on the nature of reality.
The travelogue part was fascinating, and the meditation part seemed pretty prescient, at least with respect to certain current pop science ideas.
The author clearly makes an effort to get the astronomy right, but since this is 30s astronomy, some parts are laughably wrong.The book also has an interesting historical context, in that it was written during the depression in the lead up to World War II.
This clearly influences the story, explicitly so in some cases.So yeah, good book, somewhat awkwardly written, and no wonder it's been influential.
Luego el libro parece que se monta en la nave de "Cosmos" para ir visitando planeta a planeta describiendo, como si de un documental se tratase, las formas de vida que va encontrando.
Hasta aquí uno puede decir que el ritmo baja y sigue leyendo.
Entonces te ves envuelto en una especie de tratado de bioastrosociología repetitiva en la que el autor comienza a relatar el funcionamiento y el desarrollo social de diferentes culturas galácticas, repitiéndose siempre el mismo patron de Individualidad-Comunidad.
Así hasta 2 billones de años, prácticamente rozando el infinito y superando lo insufrible, para dar estructura a una especie de historia del universo.
It is, after all, a beautiful example of how science fiction can touch theology and make the reader believe momentarily that there is meaning to life.On a silent, starry night, the narrator of the novel finds himself abandoning his corporal form on a hillside in exchange for a trip around the galaxy - and then the universe(s) - that will bring him close to the truths about creation.
As the history of our universe becomes clear to the narrator, a path opens up to the "Star Maker" - the being behind the creation of everything.
As a work of the imagination, I have never read anything that surpasses this. As a 'science fiction' novel this is definitely in my top ten although it is important to remember that Stapledon was not aware that he was writing anything resembling a work in this genre and indeed had never heard of the genre at all.This is such a profound book that it seems like a terrible shame that it has only attracted a relatively small reading audience: it deserves much more than the Happy Few who currently compose its fan base.
One of the greatest books ever written. Every science fiction fan should read this.
Stapledon contemplates human nature, the rise and fall of civilisation, collective consciousness (between humans and alien species), our place in the Universe, competing political ideologies, the origins and nature of religions and gods, mysticism, and (possibly the most mind-boggling concept in the whole book) the idea that planets, stars, galaxies and the Universe itself could be conscious as a kind of super-mind.
I love the way he convincingly details how planets, stars and galaxies can have their own unique intelligence and form their own kind of civilisation.I don't know if Stapledon was familiar with Eastern mysticism and philosophy, but many of the concepts he explores are similar to concepts found in Hinduism, Buddhism and Taoism.
This is true Science Fiction.
In fact, it was not until after its publication that he discovered the Science Fiction tendencies that the novel held (a genre he had hitherto never heard of).
Stapledon wrote this novel primarily as a way to explore philosophical, theological ideas about existence, both individually, and as a community.
This is Sci-Fi as it is meant to be, a means to explore aspects of the human experience in unconventional manners.Stapledon tries to do all of this in a mere 250 pages.
