https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/32978.The_Clue_in_the_Diary
You really have to suspend disbelief with this one!” Our brilliant Nancy casually knows a bit of Swedish -- and not just to hear it and recognize Swedish words, but she can recognize written Swedish.
His name came up briefly in an earlier book but here he has more than just a bit part in the story.
I don’t remember this flirty Ned, so perhaps in the following books Ned becomes the steadfast and loyal boyfriend and Nancy the independent and down to earth gal we have come to idolize.
I can’t recall if the previous books had her receiving something at the end, but I do know that the sentiment carries on in future books.
(Nancy Drew's boyfriend who finally and bravely is written into the series.)This mystery is fairly standard, like a paint-by-numbers book on how to write a mystery for twelve-year old girls born in the 1930s.
Nancy comes upon a burning house, witnesses a man fleeing from it, does some 'sleuthing' and finds both a signet ring and diary near the house, but then she can't get away from the property due to all the fire trucks AND dozens of cars belonging to spectators who arrive to watch the fire burn.
Nick will now be the second man in Nancy's life, after father, prominent lawyer, Carson Drew.
as a child, i only read 'nancy drew and the clue crew' which is more the elementary grade of level of this series.
but despite the way these crimes were structured, there wasn't much from this book.
the wording seemed extremely elementary even though i would usually put this as a middle grade book.
a lot of this was cliche, as you KNOW that nancy is probably going to solve the crime, etc, etc.
i only own books 5, 6, 7, and 8 i believe and i don't really see any plot twists or oh-my-god-no-way moments?
I have to point out that I read every Nancy Drew I could get my hands on back in the late 70s.
This book I found on my shelf; my daughters are reading Nancy Drew occasionally now.
There is a place for stories that do not challenge the frontiers of fiction, that encourage and refresh with the knowledge that sometimes things work out beautifully for everyone.I also have to point out that my 1962 edition had been rewritten from the original Clue in the Diary, which I did not know until this time around.
Typical Nancy Drew, though is seems as though Nancy might have found herself a boyfriend in this one, if this Ned guy sticks around to help her with more mysteries!
This girl has all the luck too!
I mean, what are the odds that she would be driving by a remote house at the very second it is blown up by a bomb, and what are the odds that she would find the diary that leads to solving the mystery of who done it?
Okay, okay, I know, that is what makes these stories Nancy Drew mysteries.
But doesn't anyone else ever wonder just how this girl always is in the exact right spot at the exact right time, every single solitary time?
Oh boy here comes Ned Nickerson.
Here's good boy Ned Niskerwhiskers.
Here he is Fred Nienermeiser.
He telephones Nancy five times a day, and he eagerly agrees when she tells him to drive old ladies around on their errands.
He's gonna be yet another character getting underfoot during investigations.The mystery in this book: Nancy sees a house explode.
Of course she rushes directly toward it.
Upon arrival she sees a man dive into the bushes and escape.
Luckily Nancy knows five-dozen Swedish speaking people in her little New England town, but none of them are home when she tries to find them.
I spent many summers growing up reading and rereading nancy Drew and always loved these books! I picked up one at the library the other day feeling very nostalgic. The book was every bit as delightful and engaging as I remember! I picked the clue in the diary vaguely remembering it was one of my favorites and soon realized it's the book where we meet Ned--no wonder it was a favorite! I just love nancy. I wish I had "chums" and ate "luncheon" and drove a roadster and could pull off a beret....ah, you've still got it nancy!
Find this review, plus more, on my blog: Booklikes OR Blogger Basic InfoFormat: Audio Pages/Length: 3hrs 10minsGenre: Middle School; Mystery Reason For Reading: Continue seriesAt A GlanceLove Triangle/Insta Love/Obsession?: NoCliff Hanger: NoTriggers: n/aRating: 2 starsScore SheetAll out of tenCover:  6Plot: 5Characters: 5World Building: 4Flow:  3Series Congruity: 8Writing: 6Ending: 4Total: 4In DepthBest Part: It was shortWorst Part: The ending was like scooby doo.
Thoughts Had: Bore, next!ConclusionContinuing the Series: YesRecommending: SureShort Review: This was the first Nancy Drew book to bore me.
There was a fire in the first part, which was crazy exciting, then nothing really happens after that.
The Clue in the Diary by Carolyn Keene is the seventh book in the Nancy Drew mystery stories trilogy.
As their interesting day goes on, Nancy finds a couple artifacts knowing that it is connected to the mystery.
Finding these artifacts makes Nancy and her friends anxious and determined to figure out the mystery.The clue in the diary has moments of brilliance especially in the Drue’s house.
I look forward to reading the rest of the book and anxious to figure out the exciting and interesting mystery.
'Say,' said Ned, 'I have a notion to start a diary of my own!''Why don’t you?' Nancy asked lightly.She became conscious that Ned’s eyes were looking straight at her. 'I will if I can fill most of the pages with entries of dates with you.'Hahahahaha! Oh, Ned... I don't know if I should be impressed with your forwardness or roll my eyes out of cheesy embarrassment.
This one was okay. Nothing extra-specially interesting mystery-wise, but nothing I felt like I had to slog through. An average entry.BUT this is the book where Nancy meets Ned!! I always assumed he was a built-in boyfriend like Bess and George are introduced as built-in friends; I was super excited to read about this random guy they meet who introduces himself as Ned Nickerson, and it was a total meet-cute as Nancy is not 100% certain he is not trying to steal her car at the time. Gotta love it.
The "Nancy Drew" suite is a wildly-ranging melting pot.
I appreciate its refusal to depend on crime.
I commend and appreciate that it most often creates 'mystery for the sake of mystery'.
There was no ostentatious production of unearthing it in a wooden chest, no anticipation of seeking the diary in the first place, and no historical aura of reading inked memories of long ago.
Besides lack of enchantment, I was most dismayed by Nancy’s absurd visits seeking translation of the journal when its writer or his wife could have read the thing for her!
I really liked this book.
Wow she really takes down the criminal.
Too bad the owner of the diary had to go jail for a while.
At the beginning I was very suspicious of him.
Towards the middle of the book I realized he wasn't.
I'm so glad Ned Nickerson came into the picture.
It's quite funny when he moves Nancy's car.
Ned was very helpful to Nancy.
I like how George and Bess are in this one.
I like Nancy's too best friends.
I love how George and Bess have a different personality.
Nancy is so good at what she does.
I didn't even know the Nancy Drew books had been changed so much.
The language is much more poetic and precise, charming, interesting!
Words like "indolent" and "laden" and "to divine her unspoken thoughts"I read the more recent edition and it has some things added for more details, but I prefer the better vocabulary in this older edition and I am having my eight year old look up some of the words.I am up reading it to be able to explain the words and talk to her about the difference words can make :-)I love a well-written book!
So happy to learn that Nancy Drew stands the test of time. Loved, loved her as a kid in the 70's. And what's not to love...she drives a smart convertible, has great friends/cousins, is smart, brave, daring. In this book we meet Nancy's boyfriend, Ned Nickerson. The story moves along nicely although a bit too quickly at times. Much is left for the reader to imagine, in a nice way. Now if only I could persuade my daughter to read the series!
I couldn't resist picking this up in a book sale the other day. This was the first Nancy Drew I read as a girl, I found it lying around my Grandparents house in Marshfield; a cast off of an older cousin or Aunt.It was everything I remember plus with my aging has taken on a new level of hilarity. As an added bonus, this is the one where she meets Ned Nickerson (who is a slightly creepy stalker type).
I read every single Nancy Drew available, and this one, I suspect mostly because the title intrigued us, was the most eagerly awaited and passed around book of the series, among my friends ages 9-10. The Nancy Drew books were the second mystery series I ever read; the first was the Bobbsey Twins.
Yet another great Nancy Drew story. In this one she uses a diary to try and free a prisoner wrongfully accused.
Still one of my favorite Nancy Drews. Could have done with a little les teasing from Nancy friends, but it was good.
This book series is really great each book is very similar mystery,action, and adventure but each book is also different in it's own way. That's why I like this series and the book itself it doesn't fit a cookie cutter mold per say it brings its own style to the table. I am excited to continue to read the series. Sure this book in particular might not be on my to read list exactly but it is about enjoying what you read as well as getting into the habit of reading.
I really enjoyed this book. Some of it was funny. Nancy Drew Mysteries are the best books to read. I highly recommend the Nancy Drew Mystery Series. You can still buy the books from Amazon. I have the first 23 Books now in the Nancy Drew Mystery Series. I buy one or two per month. I have read the first 7 Books now in the Nancy Drew Mystery Series. Give This Book 5/5 Stars.Happy Reading
Classic Nancy Drew. Published in 1962. I read this as part of a book challenge for the year to find a book to reread from my childhood. This was a fun afternoon read, nothing too complicated. A little suspense, happy ending for the good guys and where most people are honest and uncomplicated.
A quick synopsis -Nancy and her friends George and Bess, meet a woman with a little girl at a carnival who are financially desperate.
Nancy sets a trap and along with Bess and George figures out the mystery.
But in book 7, Nancy meets Ned for the first time.In previous books, the emphasis has felt more like feminism.
In book 7, every time Ned is mentioned she gets giddy.
The books mention Mr. Drew going to Cleveland and taking the train to Chicago - so my guess is that it's someplace in Illinois, Indiana or possibly Wisconsin.Next question, why doesn't Nancy or any of her friends have jobs?
Of course this sends Nancy on another case --Yippee and in turn helps with the first, the mysterious house fire of the disliked Raybolts.
Nancy saves both intertwining case and all is right in the world again.I liked this installment, I didn't love it but it was a good read-in-a-day book.
I really liked that Ned has come into the picture now, someone who will probably be on the same level of mystery-solving instead of her friends George and Bess, who basically follow Nancy around and take the incentive.
I will send her the books out of order, but, to my recollection, you don't really have to read them in order.
This book is the one where Ned Nickerson is introduced.
As a kid reading these, I didn't think about how necessary George and Bess were to help offset the primness of Nancy.
There are quaint Swedish phrases (that she supposedly learned from and exchange student and you kind of think "Why would anyone teach another person to say this?").
Everyone knows who is guilty pretty early on, so you are really just reading for the capture of the crook.
One of my favorites.
This is the first "book on tape" I've "read".
Entertaining, but, I like the voice I have in my own head when I read a book I guess.
I am an avid Nancy Drew fan, and read all of the series starting with the blue ones from the 1930s, and ending with the yellow covers of the 60s I believe.
This is one of my favorites, but I took out a star for just this being the audio version.
Not my cup of tea, but it was nice to be able to sit at work and instead of music have Nancy Drew on in the background.
I am amazed that the authors of Nancy Drew were able to come up with so many diffent plots.
This time, Nancy is solving a mystery surrounding a patent thief, a house fire, and mail fraud.
In the end, of course, Nancy's sleuthing lands a bunch of mail fraud crooks in the slammer.
We discover that Nancy also knows a bit of Swedish and that Bess still loves to eat.
Of course, once they discovered she was Carson Drew's daughter, the misunderstanding got resolved very quickly.
I do think that Nancy's mysteries are getting a bit more sophisticated as we go along, though.
I love Nancy Drew books for what they are - mysteries for the 9-12 year old to enjoy and cherish.
A bit of nostalgia from the '50's and '60's.
Everyone, except for the bad guys of course, is so wholesome and nice.
They have luncheon, not lunch, and friends are chums.
In this 7th installment of the mystery series, Ned Nickerson is introduced for the first time.
A woman and her daughter, fallen on hard times, need Nancy's help.
Eventually all the pieces tie together, and Nancy must solve the mystery, with the help of George and Bess, and newfound friend Ned, of course.
This particular Nancy Drew was outstanding! It is so funny how involved I get in these old mysteries, but I do. One thing that stands out and shows how times have changed...Nancy and her friends pool their money together (about $4) and buy bags and bags of groceries for a mother and daughter involved in the mystery...even a steak! Although, when Nancy's car is rear-ended the auto shop has it completely fixed in about 2 days...I wish!! Seriously, if you have young daughters (or sons!) I recommend Nancy Drew for some adventure!
I read both versions, the old from the 1930's and newer. I do enjoy going back and reading the originals from the 1930's. The early ones were much more interesting than the ones that came out after 1959. ND is not nearly as perfect; in fact, she's a little more like Trixie Belden in these versions. I enjoyed the difference in grammar and diction, especially the slang usage. It really is a trip down memory lane to read the early ND's. As a special note, in this book we meet Ned for the first time!
