https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/8664353-unbroken
Louie and the other prisoners desperately try to hang on long enough for America to win the war and free them.I didn’t care anything about race horses, but found Laura Hillenbrand’s Seabiscuit an incredibly interesting read.
Hillenbrand creates vivid descriptions of Louie’s childhood, the Berlin Olympics, the life of an air man in the Pacific, and a Japanese POW camp while also telling the stories of the people around Louie.She also does a superior job of describing a phase of World War II that tends to get overlooked, Japanese war crimes against prisoners.
Hillenbrand has broken the unwritten code for Americans to downplay the wrongs of the Japanese during World War II (other than Pearl Harbor) in favor of focusing on the egregious acts of the Nazis.
I appreciate all the research Hillenbrand did to bring us the other side of the story.Louis Zamperini is my new hero.
How inspiring and moving, his whole story, but especially his life after the war.I don't think I can pick up another book for a few days.
I need to let this one settle before I delve into fiction that will feel meaningless after this.
However, where Seabiscuit focused narrowly on a small set of characters and events, this was more sprawling, bursting with a poorly-sketched cast of characters who, over time, became nearly indistinguishable.
On a related note, I wasn't crazy about the fact that the book endlessly described what was happening to Zamperini, as opposed to what was going through his mind, what gave him hope, etc.--material that I would have found infinitely more interesting.
As other reviewers have noted, although listed as non-fiction, the book suffers from potentially unreliable narration, as most details were reported to the author some 50 years after the fact.
It happens so often in fact you start to think of it as a good candidate for some kind of literary drinking game where you take a shot of bourbon every time he shows up.Now, far be it for me to disparage war veterans, especially POWs who’ve endured the kinds of crushing abuse that Louie and his fellow service men have, but how is it that we are able to get such detailed minutia over 50 years after it all went down?
”If I knew I had to go through those experiences again,” he finally said, “I’d kill myself.” Louis Zamperini was a precocious child. He was always finding creative ways to get himself in trouble. He was desperate for any attention. Causing trouble is one way to get it, another way is to become really, really good at something. His brother Pete, a multi-sport star athlete, forced him into cross country and track in the hopes of keeping him out of trouble. The running, at first, felt like a punish
Readers will find the descriptions of Zamperini's races leading up to the Olympics much more compelling than they think, even if they don’t have an interest in sports.
Laura Hillenbrand could have let the behavior of the Japanese guards weigh this book down into a horrific tale of depressing stories of physical and mental abuse, but though she does share a lot of those stories with us they are uplifted by the sheer determination of Zamperini not only to live, but to get one chance to wrap his hands around the neck of his tormentor.

Louie Zamperini was quite a character, wild, given to mayhem and thievery, but he straightened out enough to become a world-class runner, joining the US team in the Berlin Olympics.
This is not only an amazingly researched book, with details that clearly took serious, serious digging to unearth, but Laura Hillenbrand is a gifted story-teller, as any who have read Seabiscuit can attest, and she brings her narrative skills to this remarkable, real-life tale.
The unpleasantness of the Geneva-challenged WW II Japanese military was not news to me, but the details Hillenbrand provides gave that vision considerable depth.
I’m afraid that kids who think nothing unusual of presidents with no military experience will view WWII simply as another knuckle in history—something to study, fodder for a paper—but no less important than history that piles up each year and must be studied in turn.But WWII was so defining for so many generations, globally, it just yearns not to be forgotten.Due diligence for my star rating:1.
Zamp is still alive!!!For non-service members, it’s a complete mystery the bonds that tie men of military and combat experience.
Even if you don't end up liking it, you just need to read it.
Everyone does.Louis Zamperini was an Italian-American Olympic runner whose plane goes down in World War 2, and he and two other men drift on a raft for a long, long time.
This books packs a double punch--the story itself is as amazing as Laura Hillenbrand's genius story-telling.Books like this inspire us, they shift our perspectives, they enlighten us, and they scare the *bleep* out of us.
Louis stretched the human experience to the very depth and breadth of its ability to survive and lived, scratch that, LIVES to tell about it.
Louie Zamperini and my father, Jim Wilson, were friends, and so I have known the outlines of Zamperini's story my whole life. Somewhere in the photo archives around Moscow, we have a baby photo of me, taken by Zamperini. I am drooling in that picture, something I have contrived not to do with more recent photographs.Though I have been familiar with this story for a long time, Hillenbrand's telling of it is magnificent. This is a book to reinforce everything you knew doctrinally about man's capacity for both depravity and heroism. This was a deeply edifying read. Highly recommended.
A solid and resounding 3.5 starsThe promotional buzz for this book focuses on Louis Zamperini's survival at sea after a WWII plane crash, and his subsequent ordeal as a POW in Japan.
If that's what piqued your interest in the book, I suggest beginning with Chapter 12,(or a few pages before, so you can get the part about the crash).
For the first eleven chapters, it's as if Hillenbrand couldn't decide which story she wanted to tell.
Beginning with Chapter 12, the book becomes more strongly focused.
Louie's story sweeps itself along, and the author's presence becomes less noticeable.
Louie the man is ten-star material!
Remember when we used to have live TV and stations would air previews for a program they were trying to promote?
In other words, Hillenbrand knows how to tell a story, and this book, a biography of Olympic runner Louis Zamperini, which focuses on his life in a Japanese POW camp, is a prime example.
Laura Hillenbrand’s book about Louie Zamperini’s life as an Olympian and later as a POW in Japan gives us powerful reminders that some things in life are real cool and some things just basically suck.
Here’s a list that Unbroken brings to mind – things that would be either great (↑) or decidedly not (↓).
↑Showing rapid improvement in races, ultimately making the 1936 Olympic team at the age of 19.
↓Finding out after the crash that your life raft has very little in the way of supplies.
↓Facing Japanese bombers strafing you with bullets, missing you (miraculously), but blowing holes in your raft.
I can't have it physically, so I'm going to have it intellectually.
Unbroken is an amazing survival story, but this book is also so grim that it took me five years to finish it.I had loved Hillenbrand's previous work, Seabiscuit, and had bought a copy of Unbroken back in 2010 as soon as it was released.
I especially liked that Hillenbrand didn't end the story when Zamperini was released from the POW camp; instead, she continued to follow what happened to the men, and even to the Japanese prison guards, some of whom were prosecuted as war criminals.
Part of my reading of war books and memoirs, this one enlightened to me as to why the Japanese were so reviled by Americans. Fit partners for Hitler indeed.
I love WWII stories, but most of the ones I've seen and read have focused on Germany, so I really didn't know much about how Japan had treated their POW's.
It was pretty eye opening to read the stats about how they pretty much massacred hundreds of thousands of POW's.
One of my favorite points the author made is best illustrated by this quote about Dignity is as essential to human life as water, food, and oxygen.
This is a fundamental truth of humanity that the author really drew out well - if you take a persons dignity away you take everything away.
I looked forward to picking it up again and continuing on with the story of prisoner of war Louis Zamperini.Hillenbrand is also the author of Seabiscuit, so I was a bit skeptical of her writing about a WWII POW.
While my running days are long gone (and certainly never reached the heights Louie did) there's a bond of sorts there.We meet Louis as a kid growing up in Torrance, California.
He somehow survives unspeakable tortures and after years in captivity, he is free.While the war may have ended for the word, it continues to rage in Louie's psyche.
"I'm loving this book.
I'm only on page 28 but I'm listening to an audio book at the same time.
Anyway, this book is a must read.
Very well written !""I'm reading this book slower than I do some.
My Father, Uncle and Father in law went through this.
I'm sad because of the conditions they had to deal with but also proud beyond words.
It was one of the most memorable books I have read in some time.
It amazes me what our soldiers went through and how much we have to be proud of.
A true tale of human resilience so unbelievable that you would think it was a novel. But Louis Zamperini did it and Hillenbrand chronicles that harrowing journey in a way only she can.
This book deserves the best review I could give it. It hit me hard. It will be awhile.
The book follows the life of Louis Zamperini, a troubled youth turned Olympic runner.
It follows his time as an active soldier, his unfortunate crash, dealing with sharks for weeks on end and no food or water, a horrifying internment in a Japanese POW camp, and his journey home seeking healing and redemption.
As his plane is going down over the Pacific and he and his crewmates stare at each other in horror, I truly felt that horror.
Amazing that it is a true story.The ending of the book deals so much with forgiveness and redemption.
I closed the book inspired, hopeful, and touched by his life and choices.
I have a very hard time believing some of the events: (view spoiler)[the numerous Japanese bullets missed Allan Phillips and Max on the raft and fixing the bullet holes in the raft while they remained in it is implausible!
(hide spoiler)] The sharks’ behavior seems unbelievable too….
The crews on the airplanes were given fleece clothing when they left for their first air assignment.
Did there really exist fleece clothing back in the forties?!
I just cannot believe many statements made in this book!
And my husband concurs; he too has read both books.
I felt as though I was just reading a series of facts.) Also, I don't have much interest in war, combat, or airplanes; when I picked up 'Unbroken' I was depending on my love for the characters to be enough of a gripper to keep me engaged, and that just didn't happen.
Reading it became more of a chore than an escape, so ultimately I only made it through about a quarter of the book.
I wonder if I just needed to hang on a bit longer to fall in love with this book the way that so many others have...
He either caused trouble or trouble followed him around wherever he went.His older brother, Pete, in order to counteract Louie's stealing activities, got him involved with the school's sport-team.
Louie was as safe as one can be during war time until one day he was not.'The Green Hornet' was the name of the B-24 bomber that on the 27th of May, 1943, crashed into the ocean 850 miles South of Oahu, killing eight of eleven men aboard.For 47 days they were adrift in the ocean, during those days the three survivors became two.
Louie would later say that:
I'm not a huge non-fiction fan, but when a friend of mine suggested this as a book club read I changed my mind entirely! Louie was truly a remarkable man and loved such a life! Such a hero and so glad I read this! If you haven't you need to pick it up :) his story is unbelievable and makes you thankful for all you have. Ahhhhhhhhmazing!!!
It’s one of those books that you gasp out load while reading it as the horrors of war really come to the forefront in this book.
Part one deals with the protagonist Louis Zamperini's childhood and running career and I really enjoyed this introduction to Louis as I felt I really understood this man and knew how he survived the horrors of war and the physiological and physical pain he endured.
A tale of unbelievable endurance, hardship and heroism this book is not only an education but a wonderful read and a book that you ponder long after you have read it.
UnbrokenWWII Was More Than Meets the Eye Imagine that you are an American soldier. You and two other of your fellow soldiers are lost in the South Pacific Ocean after a horrific plane crash. You have little water or food to keep you alive, and the scorching sun in relentless. Oh, and your raft that you are aimlessly floating about on is being circled by twenty foot sharks. You are adrift for forty-six days of hell on Earth. Finally, after nearly seven weeks, you spot land. Somehow, you defied al
I believe that it is one of the best non fiction accounts of WWII ever written, because it puts you right in the POW camps with Louie, it has all the suspense and excitement of a novel, and finally because of the story is the ultimate tale of survival and hope.
In conclusion, I believe that this is one of the best non-fiction accounts of WWII ever written, because it puts you right there in the POW camps with Louie, it has all the suspense and excitement of a novel, and finally because of the story itself, the ultimate tale of survival and hope.
5x5x5x5 stars!
Any part of Louis Zamperini's life would be worth telling a story about.
From running in the Olympics to fighting sharks on a deflating life raft to surviving horrors as a prisoner of war, this man experienced the inexpressible.
Yet he came through it.
Unbroken tells a powerful story in a powerful way and leaves the reader with much to ponder about bravery, optimism, and human nature.
If I did have one critique, it is that the ending with Billy Graham got wrapped up quite fast considering the buildup towards it.
The entire book foreshadows Zamperini's PTSD and his eventual healing.
I saw the interview with Louis Zamperini on 60 minutes and immediately ordered the book.
While the interview made Louis seem likeable and sweet the book revealed the true nature of this American Hero.
By the time I closed the book I had tears pouring down my face.Laura Hillenbrand is an amazing author.
It is clear that they hold each other in the highest regard.I learned so many things from this book.
The thing that I will most take away from this book is the absolute selflessness of that generation of Americans.
Most of us are all too familiar with the atrocities of the Holocaust.Most of us cannot let our minds and hearts forget the unbelievable destruction of Japan and it’s people as a result of America unleashing the atomic bomb.In Unbroken, Laura Hillenbrand has focused her research and her unique narrative voice to tell us the true story of Louis Zamperini, an American bombardier, whose plane crashed during a search mission over the Pacific.What follows then is an unforgettable, chilling and extraordinary story of survival, resilience and redemption.
This is not a book one reads, rather an experience one will never forget.
