https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/699692.The_Sackett_Brand
Probably the best of those I've read so far, though I felt oddly disconnected from it.
That's probably because I recently read The Lonely Men and that one is further in the timeline and also features Tell.
Again, the L'Amour virtues of honor and perseverance are forefront, with a healthy dose of familial loyalty.And again, I noticed how very progressive L'Amour was (in the best possible way).
Best of all, L'Amour doesn't make it such a big deal that it's, well, noticeable, really—it simply is and I find that both effective and refreshing.Anyway, this is a great adventure story with an emotional depth that could have felt manipulative but didn't.
The 16th and second to last book in the Sackett series.
This was a great book!
Tell Sackett is my favorite Sackett.
Poor Tell just can't catch a break.
He endures tragedy in the beginning of the book and vows to make the people responsible pay.
But it seems he has taken on more than he can handle and as a result the entire Sackett clan comes from all over to help Tell escape with his life.
I loved the ending and the way LL wrote the perspectives to show the way all of the other Sacketts started riding in.
This would be a great movie!
Read most of Louis Lamour's books when I was in my late teens and early twenties. They are important to me as they were some of the first books that got me into the reading habit. For that I shall be forever grateful
8/2018 Reread: This book always makes me cry with its fierce family loyalty. Our family listens to this book over and over. If I could name another kid I’d name him Sackett. The Sackett’s are just that cool.
The hunted becomes the hunter in what might be my favorite Sacketts book yet.
The continuing saga of the Sackett family, most notably William Tell Sackett, is told here in The Sackett Brand, given by a line from the outlaw Nolan Sackett while in a bar in a western town, as one of perseverance and revenge.
Tell Sackett is shot from behind and falls into a creek while away from his wife, Ange.
When he returns to find that Ange has been murdered, Tell goes to rather long lengths to find the man who killed his wife.
There are numerous situations that Tell finds himself in that he is able to get out of that seem to be beyond credulity.
It is a sad story in many ways because of what happens to Ange and to Tell but it is also a story of great courage and sacrifice.
The other great thing about this story is that so many Sacketts show up to help Tell.
I love how each group finds out and how they drop everything and head out in hopes of saving Tell or in killing those that killed Tell.There is lots of action, as well as the standard character's thoughts on the world around him as well as on the people that are part of his world.
I love all the Sackett characters I have read about and I hope to read more about those that make an appearance in this story.
This was just about the very first book to make a strong impression on me as a youngster, first learning to read.
Coming back to it again after all these years was quite an experience.L'Amour sure knows how to tell a story.
The family part is what got to me so many years ago.
The idea that all the members of a far-flung family would drop whatever they were doing and converge to help their brother/cousin/what-have-you!
The chapter in the middle where the news of the trouble gets out, and the different brothers and cousins start to move, is my favorite.
This is one of the better Sackett stories. William Tell Sackett is a great character. In this story a group learns that when you take on a single Sackett, you take on the whole clan. Everyone should read this to learn a few things about family.
ANGE KELLY SACKETTNow they've done it, brought the WRATH of Tell Sackett down on their heads.
While Tell went to find a trail down to beautiful valley in the Teton Mountains, Ange Kelly Sackett, his new bride of one month waited until he returned.
Unbeknownst to both Tell and Ange, someone was following them from the town of Globe.
He then made up a story that he was attacked by some unknown "drifter" this was cover story because his faced was scratched by the attack of this unknown "drifter."Poor Tell he's finally found a woman to share his life with and now she's dead.
Tell Sackett has finally married Ange, his own true love.
However, Tell is nearly murdered and returns to find his wife gone without a trace.I hated some of the story, because I wanted a happy ending for Tell and Ange and that wasn't to be (she is found murdered -- this happens early in the book, so I'm not giving away anything).
I loved other parts of it.
I think the message is that with family, you are never really alone.If you like Westerns and haven't read this one, what are you waiting for?
Add it to your to-read list pronto.
Energized read about a gritty form of justice in the face of handsome, successful evil. The kind of evil the uses people, then tosses them aside. The kind of justice the endures because it really is justice on behalf of others who have been wrangled and wronged, but can no longer speak.Typical L'Amour tale, told in his gripping fashion. The kind of tale that draws the reader in, page-turning, passionate, and proud. The type of story that makes one glad of valor and family. I happily recommend the book.
There is a big clan of Sacketts. They settled in the Tennessee mountains and as the years passed, some headed west. This is a story about William Tell Sackett; the death of his wife, Ange, and Tell's fight to stay alive while hunting his wife's killer in the mountains and avoiding the 40 men that were hunting for him. The Tell menfolk, some of which, Tell had never met, rush to his aid for the last showdown. If you like westerns, you will like this one.
This takes up almost right after Mojave Crossing with the story of Tell and Ange. It takes a dark turn and turns into a thrilling man hunt and trial of survival through the canyons of the Mogollon Rim in Arizona. Many Sacketts, familiar and new, arrive to come to Tell's aid and gives this book a classic Western revenge movie feel. As with all L'Amour books, the story telling is crisp, the descriptions beautiful, and there is plenty of philosophical musings about the mores and norms of the West.
A sadly lackluster L'Amour book. I mainly picked it up for the interesting premise of a bunch of Sacketts coming to help Tell, but that only made up a small part of the book. Ended up skimming through quite a bit of it. And I didn't appreciate the implication at the end that Tyrel participated in the gun battle at the end because this came after The Daybreakers and it totally goes against the ending of that book.
Best sacketts book ever !!!.All the Sacketts come to the aid of Tell Sackett when they hear he is being hunted after his wife was killed. The all the Sacketts in the surrounding area come to his aid. It's just a matter of do they get there before he is dead or before he kills his hunters. Which is it going to be. Best book ever in the Sackett series.
Great listening for a family road trip
Great readGood for teaching morals to the young. Respect for different people. The basics of right and wrong as well as describing perseverance and determination.
It was fun to listen to this book describe a lot of geography in Central Arizona that I am familiar with.
The Sackett saga continues with the deadly adventures of William Tell Sackett. This time he gets into a mess of trouble and most of the Sackett clan rallies in support.
I read this years ago. Enjoyed it.
Have always loved Louis L'Amour's books. The Sackett brothers have held me captive for years. I miss his style and character development. Very descriptive of a time long ago in the 'wild west'.
I enjoyed this novel very much. The plotting was fast and suspenseful.
it had some action and some shooting but it was a little bit too far off the reservation as to just what a lucky / super hero he turns out to be (although it is kind of the theme of the book series).
Sackett Brand review.By far one of the best of the Sackett novels. Highly recommend to anyone who likes westerns. The whole series is worth your time
Best of the Sackett BrandI've read the whole series of the Sackett's and this is my favorite book. Great story line. Louis L'Amour is one of greatest author's.
It was a very good book. I didn't want to put it down. I think it was this book, when I read it 40+ years ago that taught me the lesson: Never mess with a Sackett.
Amazing This is the best story of all the Sackett novels!! I've read ot about 6 times over the years and it never disappoints.
One of the better written books, although I didn't like the story. L'Amour is very mean to Tell. Very mean.
Some of the content is tougher than what I’m used to in L’Amour’s books, but the story is powerful and moving.
