https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/347656.Don_t_Waste_Your_Life
That is, to draw their sense of approval and validation from how successful they feel they are at "not wasting" their life.
If they aren't what they consider to be successful at this, then they will feel less approved or loved by God (even if they know intellectually that isn't true).
If they are "successful," then they will feel that all is well, but only because their identity and significance is attached to their performance.
I'm only now coming out of this myself.So, just remind yourself that your identity, significance, approval, validation, and justification come from Christ alone.

I'm not a huge Piper fan which in some circles is tantamount to blasphemy. I don't agree with his Christian hedonism principle--it seems to me to be self-focused rather than God focused.However, this book is a helpful reminder that our lives should be used for the glory of God. We are always on duty in His service and cannot afford to waste our time.Recommended.
I am quite certain that when I think of risk I am thinking of different things than Ben. I was challanged as to what it means to risk at different stages of life.
Risk may be such different things at different life stages.
It is a risk to stay home with children for women who struggled to become competent at a career, it is a risk to REALLY BE what GOD CALLS ME TO BE, whatever my age or life ;stage, because he does not call to mediocrity but to excellence.
I'm pretty sure it's geared toward new young Christians, but there are so many other books that do a better job at presenting this message.I was also feeling a sort of condemnation or legalism that I couldn't quite put my finger on to explain until I read someone else's review.
That is, to draw their sense of approval and validation from how successful they feel they are at "not wasting" their life.
If they aren't what they consider to be successful at this, then they will feel less approved or loved by God (even if they know intellectually that isn't true).
But from the beginning, I was deeply disturbed by its pretentiousness:"I will tell you what a tragedy is.
See my shells.' That is a tragedy."Let me tell you what pretentiousness is.
Consider a book that takes a blurb from Readers Digest and shines a spotlight on the couple from the story to its audience, asserting that this couple is committing a deep tragedy by collecting shells.
How dare they collect shells and appreciate natural beauty!Okay, I may be nitpicking, but I find it unfair that Piper is condemning these people.
What's wrong with collecting shells?
Let me tell you what wasting your time is.
If Christ is an all-satisfying treasure and promises to provide all our needs, even through famine and nakedness, then to live as though we had all the same values as the world would betray him.An excellent start to 2017, and a great companion piece to another work I'm reading currently,  The Cost of Discipleship , by Dietrich Bonhoeffer. I first discovered John Piper just over a decade ago, while working at a 3-day concert event with a local radio station. One of the many other stations was giv
If Christ is an all-satisfying treasure and promises to provide all our needs, even through famine and nakedness, then to live as though we had all the same values as the world would betray him.An excellent start to 2017, and a great companion piece to another work I'm reading currently, 
Life changing some quotes:"God created me - and you - to live with a single, all-embracing, all-transforming passion - namely, a passion to glorify God by enjoying and displaying his supreme excellence in all the spheres of life." - p31The opposite of wasting your life is to live by a single, soul-satisfying passion for the supremacy of God in all things." - p43"the people that make a durable difference in the world are not the people who have mastered many things, but who have been mastered by one great thing.
- 59"If we do not embrace the path of joy-laden, painful love, we will waste our lives.
Is that the way God designed living our life here on earth to look like?John Piper, in the book Don't Waste Your Life, takes issue with the prevailing thoughts that life is primarily for our enjoyment.
Paul says in 2nd Corinthians 4:17-18:17 For this light momentary affliction is preparing for us an eternal weight of glory beyond all comparison, 18 as we look not to the things that are seen but to the things that are unseen.
Although I'm super Piper's intentions are good and that the overall message of this book would be purposeful to some, I find John Piper condemning, rude and a bit self-righteous.
He only talks about his own experiences to show an example of what it's like to really live for God and I'm not a fan of that.
Other people have written good reviews on his condemnation of the couple that like collecting shells and playing softball.
John Piper, have you seen their heart for God?
John Piper constantly talks about how his life is not a waste because he preaches and writes books amongst other spiritual tasks.
This should be called... "Don't Waste Your Life (on this Book)". It took me about five tries to finish. It's hard to review because nothing struck out to me, hence I cannot remember anything from it.
I started this book back in '07 when I was looking for answers in my calling. God used it to verify to me that I did need to go to seminary. As soon as I got that answer, I stopped reading the book. I'm not sure why.It might have been so that God could use it to help me at this point in my journey. It was a great reminder that Christ is the blazing center and if I work for towards anything else it is a wasted life.
Well, I got so sucked in to it that I had to buy it and sit with a pencil or highlighter b/c so much of this book hit home.
I'm the woman with a college degree not being used, work experience in telecom which barely exists anymore (and which I'm terribly underexperienced for), a mom wanting to be here for my kids--their homework challenges, their activities, their lives--a substitute teacher who was thinking about grad school but just not sure which way to go.
Even to just read a good book.
For example, "We are taught in a thousand ways that love means increasing someone's self-esteem.
Love is helping someone feel good about themselves.
The first half is very dense but definitely good. The second half was incredibly thought provoking
A great look at what it means to live the true Christian life.
Enjoyed this book, it was very challenging, I pray that I can apply some of it
Some of the chapter titles that spoke to me loudest were Boasting Only in the Cross, the Blazing Center of the Glory of God; Magnifying Christ Through Pain and Death; The Goal of Life--Gladly Making Others Glad in God; and The Majesty of Christ in Missions and Mercy--A Plea to This Generation.I definitely suggest that Christian youth should read this, and I think there is a study guide available to do as a group.
Mount up above your limited life--yes, a very important life, which God does not diminish--and see the great and thrilling big picture of God's global purposes for the history of the world that cannot fail." The single message throughout this book is to make Christ the center of all you do, and don't waste your life.
I can't actually rate this because I didn't finish, but I wanted to acknowledge that I did get half-way through.
It took me over a month to even get half-way through.
This is the second time I've had to stop reading a John Piper book because of this same thing.
I'd recommend it if you can get through dense and convoluted writing.
And I don't mean that as a put-down of the book, but it is convoluted writing and, for me, it became tiresome.
I don't want to have to keep re-reading a paragraph 8 times before I sort of understand what the author is saying.
This book suffers from Piper's tendency to fill 200 pages when 30 would have illustrated his points sufficiently, but the points in Don't Waste Your Life are terrific, and it's well worth the read.
Mostly, the book challenges the reader again and again to live deliberately for God's glory instead of wasting life pursuing anything else.
I also love that Piper clarifies that living deliberately in a "normal" job is no more or less valuable than physically traveling to unreached people groups.
If you're up for a challenging read, though, one that will confront you repeatedly with the question of whether or not you're wasting your life, I recommend this book.
Piper does so well at laying the glory of God in front of the reader saying, "here He is!
He lays out such a beautiful display of why we should seek the glory of God in every chapter and every thought.
I gave it 5 stars because you must not miss the treasure and joy of Christ and Piper is excellent in displaying this.I encourage every Christian to read this and follow along with what may seem repetitive.
Some think this is redundant, but It's the theme of the book and it's a great reiteration of the treasure of Christ in multiple applications.
Another school book, I read it a couple weeks ago in June but don't remember what day. (we went on vacation right after I finished it, so I never reviewed it on Goodreads)It was hard to finish because it didn't always keep my attention very well, but I thought it was a good book.
In December, I had the opportunity to review his latest book (in audiobook format), which made me into a non-fan of Piper.
It was quite interesting to see how passionately people defended Piper in response to my review.
At the same time, it would have probably been easy to make a more concise version of the book.In his eagerness to emphasize the tragedy of a wasted life, Piper also invalidates other life tragedies.
From my post Wednesday: "While we do need to combat sin and move toward moral purity, this is something that is impossible in this world.
That is to say, for all the reading I do now of books relating to faith and theology, this is a relatively late addition to my life.
He told me that I ought to read books that would cause me to focus on the Lord, and the first book he handed me was John Piper’s Don’t Waste Your Life, which had just come out the previous month.The book changed my life.
By no means have I “arrived”, but as I listened, I remembered where I was when I first read those words.
Don’t Waste Your Life, by pastor and author John Piper, is a passionate exhortation to all of us to stop and closely examine our lives to see if we are doing what we were made to do: to “make much of” God. Piper pleads with us not to get to the end of our lives and realize, in horror, that we have wasted it.
He is not saying that everyone is meant to go out and become a pastor or an overseas missionary (though he discusses those callings in his book), but that in whatever work we do, we do it to glorify God. Piper challenges us to break out of our comfortable lives and take risks that the world would consider crazy.
God is most glorified in us when we are satisfied in him.Summary: pg 177: You don't have to be a missionary to admire and advance the great purposes of God. To be known and praised and enjoyed among all peoples, but if you want to be most fully satisfied with God as he triumphs in the history of redemption, you can't go on with business as usual...
Instead you need to stop and go away for a few days with a bible and notepad and pray and think about how your particular time and place in life fits into the great purpose of God to make the nations glad in him.
This was a very good book.I learned a whole lot about God, and about what it means to truly live for him.
It makes a whole lot of sense with the God of the Bible.Now I understand what it means to truly treasure Christ.
I agree with John Piper when he says, "God is most glorified in us when we are most satisfied in him." I'm still a little iffy on the whole "Christian Hedonism" thing though.
I recommend this book to all Christians.
True, John Piper is a full Calvinist (I think), but it hardly shows in this book.
I'm looking forward to reading more John Piper books!
Piper discusses the rigorous call of the Cross. If we are to be true Christians we must give all. It's a life of sacrifice for the One who sacrificed for us. Piper is one of my favorite theologians.
Super good book! I enjoyed it a lot!
The next couple chapters after that felt like a waste of my life.Not that they were necessarily bad, they just weren't nearly as practical or powerful in comparison to the rest of the book.
It seemed like after every paragraph I was reconsidering how to spend my money, my time, my affections, my devotion, and my life in a way that isn't a waste.
Because that's what I started seeing a lot of my life as: a waste.This book helped me see all the little things I can get so obsessed with in light of Christ, the gospel, and eternity.
In spite of the choppy, repetitive first half of the book, I appreciated his clear-sighted proclamation of a personal righteousness that affects EVERY area of our lives.
71) "If Christ is an all-satisfying treasure and promises to provide all our needs, even through famine and nakedness, then to live as though we had all the same values as the world would betray him." (p.
107) "1 Peter 3:15 says, Always be prepared to make a defense to anyone who asks you for a reason for the hope that is in you.
Why don't people ask us about our hope?
