https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/789344.Encyclopedia_Brown_Boy_Detective
I could say that I loved the Encyclopedia Brown series as a kid, but that wouldn't be entirely accurate.
I wanted to *be* Encyclopedia Brown.
And in my mind, it actually seemed kind of possible.
When your mom laughs at you, you know right then and there it ain't gonna work.The books were still pretty fun, though, even if my all-too-honest mom made it clear I was never going to get to actually live them out in real life.
This kid here is way too hip to be the Leroy "Encyclopedia" Brown I grew up with!
Jupiter Jones solves mysteries as ego.
Danny Dunn solves mysteries as education.
All of these are good and fun and laudable and worthwhile for kids to learn from.If you only have one message to teach a young friend, Encyclopedia Brown solves mysteries because a) he has skill to keep exercised, b) he cares about the kids who come to him, and c) he has his father's sense of justice and service.
That's the one I'd pick....But make sure your young friend knows about Jupiter Jones and Danny Dunn as well.
It was pretty fun!
I love the old-school vision of America, sorta Tom Sawyer-y, where boys spun eggs for fun and 25 cents was a treasure.Most of the mysteries are not as mysterious as I remember them.
And the last one, where (view spoiler)[you figure it out because "As every one knows," a hard boiled egg spins faster than a raw one?
(hide spoiler)] Yeah, I didn't know that.
Although I figured it out anyway from context and because I'm a fucking genius.Anyway, it was a fun way to kill half an hour.
Sure, it's worth buying for your ten-year-old.
Things I have learned today:- I probably shouldn't become a detective- I am no better at Encyclopedia Brown than when I was littleThese books are such a throwback to childhood.
I remember being so happy when a new one that I hadn't read would appear in my local library.Each case is pretty short (5-10 pages) and ends with a "how did Encyclopedia know he was the thief?" You have to turn to the end to get the answer, which I'll say is a pretty entertaining way of reading, especially for kids.
It gets them involved in the process, which I think is valuable.Here's the thing.
There were 10 cases in this book, and I only solved 5.
"Encyclopedia Brown, Boy Detective" by Donald J. Sobol was a great series, and I think I read all of them. More than once. I thank (or blame) this series for starting me on my love of the mystery genre. These are gateway books. Finishing this series will lead one to read the Hardy Boys and Nancy Drew series, then to Agatha Christie and Sir Arthur Conan Doyle, Robert Parker and Sue Grafton, until one day you find yourself strung out on Lee Child or Robert Crais. Be forewarned...
Much more so than I liked Nancy Drew; in fact, I think Nancy Drew may be one of the most overrated children's-book characters out there.I liked Encyclopedia Brown's books because they were short, and I could often figure out the solution to the mystery on my own.
Granted, the evidence Encyclopedia cites is often very weak, and would never stand up in court, but still, not bad for a ten-year-old.I do think his police-chief father needs to retire.
Here's a little ditty I composed, with apologies to Jim Croce:Smart, smart Leroy Brown,Dumbest Dad in the whole damn town.
A Civil War sword...A watermelon stabbing...Missing roller skates...A trapeze artist's inheritance...And an eyewitness who's legally blind!Theses are just some of the ten brain-twisting mysteries that Encyclopedia Brown must solve by using his famous computerlike brain. Try to crack the cases along with him--the answer to all the mysteries are found in the back!
I recall knowing the name but had never read an Encyclopedia Brown book until recently.
And maybe that is why I read across so many genres and love reading a good children's, middle grade or young adult book.
If they are all as good as this one I have a lot of reading ahead of me.Encyclopedia Brown, born Leroy Brown is a ten year old detective from Idaville.
They are fin light easy to read mysteries.My criteria for enjoying a book intended for young reads are 1.
In case you're not familiar with Encyclopedia Brown, here's what happens.
He is a boy detective (10 years old) who gets paid, mostly by neighbor hood kids, to solve mysteries.
The reader has the opportunity to try and figure it out before turning to the back pages of the book, where the solutions and reasoning is revealed.
I am proud to report that I was able to solve nine out of ten mysteries!
Of course, having read them all before did give me an advantage.
I guess I should be embarrassed that I didn't get them all, but I read it aloud to my husband and he didn't guess it either.
I would go to the library and check out 10 of these at a time. I *loved* Encyclopedia Brown :)
Evidently even modern kids can enjoy these classic stories of the brilliant young detective.
I checked this one out of the library for my reluctant-reader eight year old grandson and he dove right in.
He's read it twice and asked me to get more next time I'm there.
Part of the attraction is that each story is only a couple of pages long.
Then the reader is asked to identify what clues Encyclopedia used to solve the case, and given the page they can turn to and see if they got it right.
This interaction keeps the reader going happily through the book.
I recall knowing the name but had never read an Encyclopedia Brown book until recently.
And maybe that is why I read across so many genres and love reading a good children's, middle grade or young adult book.
If they are all as good as this one I have a lot of reading ahead of me.Encyclopedia Brown, born Leroy Brown is a ten year old detective from Idaville.
They are fin light easy to read mysteries.My criteria for enjoying a book intended for young reads are 1.
If only every town's criminal activity involved puns and word problems!
Criminals in Idaville are bad at two things: telling lies and getting away with crime.
It's bizarre that despite being the CHIEF OF POLICE, the kid's father brings home work every night and has poor Leroy solve all the town's crime over dinner.
Of course my parents are high flying medical professionals which I suppose is a little more complicated then solving crime.I'll be honest I had been legally drinking for a good decade before I was able to solve one of these things without looking at the solution featured in the back.
Despite being really interesting mysteries the writing is TERRIBLE!
As I've gotten older, I think I've gotten cleverer, because I remember reading this book as a child and NEVER being able to guess the solutions.
Whee!My daughter struggled with it the same as I did, which led to a certain amount of frustration as we read this book for school.
I helped her through some of the puzzles, but I think it helped her when I honestly couldn't come up with the solution either.
It takes a certain kind of mindset to solve the cases - an attention to detail for example.
But seriously, if you can't solve every case, don't feel bad.
I never read these books when I was a child,but now that I'm going through my second childhood I thought I would give it a go.It's nice to spend time in gentler times.I managed to solve a few of the crimes and considered becoming a detective,but I don't think I could survive on 25 cents a day plus expense.Do kids still read these books.I'd like to think so.
I loved this series as a kid...and may have read it when last week in the closet. :) Though when you think of it, a lot of his evidence isn't very sound. Like this kid destroyed a tent because he was wearing short sleeves.....
Going back to youth books can be a funny experience: for instance, this book has ten short detective stories in which the reader can try to guess who the culprit is, and why... It is an insteresting exercise for our "grey cells", as Poirot would put it!Maria Carmo,Lisbon, 9 December 2016.
Loved it they always make one mistake
Speaking of Encyclopedia Brown, I can remember this one time when my cousin was over for the weekend and we were playing D&D and video games all weekend and ran out of pop.
I thought this was because he didn't want me riding it because I was a complete jerk to him pretty much all the time.
Luckily, I absorbed most of the fall with my face and my arms.Turns out, my brother didn't want me to ride the bike because, get this: The chain routinely popped off the sprocket when it rained.
Encyclopedia Brown was not only a favorite, I kept it by my nightstand and read it innumerable times.
I loved the idea of having to solve the puzzle yourself to resolve the case, which made me feel as though I was a participant, not just a reader.
As an adult, I am better able to appreciate the cleverness of the mysteries, which really are done in a style that mimics the observation and deduction of Sherlock Holmes.
The stories were just a bit outdated so that it might be difficult for a modern child to relate, but they're still so first class any child (or adult) who enjoys solving a riddle should love Encyclopedia Brown.
Each story ends on a cliffhanger, with Encyclopedia claiming he has solved the case...but leaving the reader to figure out the solution for themselves!
Happily, this time around I was able to solve all but one of the mysteries on my own (take THAT, mystery book for children!!), but I can certainly see why I found this book frustrating as a young reader.For a start, the book is constrained by its now-historical (1960s) setting as well as the fact that it is set in America and at least one of the mysteries requires a little bit of American history knowledge (although admittedly, the mystery can be solved without that tidbit of information).
So I've gone back to revisit this after being reminded of having read these pretty voraciously when I was in the target demographic.
I still remember some of the trivia learned from reading these.With greater perspective, I appreciate the desire to teach logical thought and attention to detail.
Does no one think it...odd...that he collects teeth?
This boy has a jar of human teeth, and collects teeth of all other kinds.
Did Mr. Brown somehow fail to observe this kid wearing all black while reading an EC horror comic inside a copy of M R James?
I just can't quite wrap my head around this kid.
I began reading Encyclopedia Brown in fourth grade.
I continue to read them in fourth grade as a teacher.
We have one story in our anthology.
As we approach that each year, I read the students other stories so they are familiar with the formula.Encyclopedia is pretty smart and solves all the crimes in Idaville.
Every now and then, a solution requires knowledge beyond my students' understanding.
I think it is more of a generational thing.The only negative I have found, and this is since I have begun rereading them, is that Encyclopedia's father, the chief of police, and his officers sometimes appear incompetent in light of Encyclopedia's sleuthing.
First, it's the first children's mystery series I've found with a boy as the main character.
Second, I LOVED that the solutions to the mysteries were all at the back of the book, so they couldn't accidentally be spoiled if you wanted to figure them out for yourself.And I also thoroughly enjoyed that the solutions to the mysteries were often simple word-plays.
They reminded me a lot of brain teasers or riddles rather than actual mysteries, which is something I think many of my students will enjoy.Very fun book, I'm looking forward to not only reading more, but to recommending them to my students as well.
The premise is straightforward: Leroy "Encyclopedia" Brown is the ten-year-old son of the chief of the Idaville Police Department. Because he is very bright and because he reads a lot of books and because he is a keen and critical observer, he has all the skills necessary to solve crimes. So he opens his own detective agency and charges clients "twenty five cents plus expenses" to solve crimes and other mysteries. There are, to date, 26 volumes in the series, the most re... (show more)
I can't believe I've never picked up an Encyclopedia Brown book until now! I love the short cases and the solutions that you can find in the back of the book. They're an awesome level for third and fourth graders and while some are super hard, a bunch of the cases are definitely able to be solved with some out-of-the-box thinking!
Click! I just solved the mystery!
Published in 1963 this is the first of the Encyclopedia Brown series. Each book has a handful of short mysteries, the solutions of which hinge on some subtle hint from the story.
This was a fun, simplistic read. Of course at my age most of the solutions to the cases were easily solvable, but the stories were still very much enjoyable. I had never read these growing up and got them for the sake of seeing what they were about. I can say this first one surprised me because I enjoyed it a lot. I wouldn't mark it as a favorite, but it was definitely worth my time to read once in my lifetime.
awesome and fun book!
