https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/8153.The_Luzhin_Defense
It’s Never Too Late for a Happy ChildhoodA boy who doesn’t want to grow up; a mother who loses interest in him as he does; a father who writes an idealised version of the boy’s life in which he doesn’t; and an agent who values only his client’s youthfulness: clearly not the best conditions for psychic maturation; but hardly signs of abuse.The boy finds his solace and calling in the game of chess: “everything apart from chess was an enchanting dream...
Whether either or both is psychotic or merely neurotic when they meet is an open question.What could possibly go wrong?Marriage brings with it a new adult provider, the father-in-law, and a new tender carer in his wife.
One of the things I like most about Nabokov’s novels is the structure, and this one has a particularly interesting structure.At the beginning of chapter nine which is roughly half way through the book, two new characters appear out of nowhere, two young Berliners who are trying to return home after a hard night on the town.
With the help of all the props, the struggling novel finishes up in the end exactly where it left off in chapter eight just before the night street began to lurch: flatter and flatter like the flattened cardboard pieces of a pocket cardboard chess set.I liked that twisted symmetry.
In other ways, the life story is an extended metaphor, a game of chess within itself.Nabokov is quite rightly regarded as one of the greatest writers to have graced this earth, so comparing this to most other books I have read, it would get top marks, but then I have to take into account both 'Pale Fire' and 'Lolita', for me, novels just don't come much better, The Luzhin Defence simply wasn't as good, but then that's no disgrace at all.
If you are a chessplayer, like me, you simply have to read this book. No one else has even come close to describing chess obsession from the inside. The style is, needless to say, impeccable.
Από την εξαίσια γραφή και γλώσσα του Ναμπόκοφ, από τις πολυεπίπεδες αναλύσεις ή από τους ιδιαίτερους χαρακτήρες που πλαισιώνουν τον νεαρό Λούζιν;;; Μάλλον όλα τα παραπάνω συνθέτουν ένα αριστούργημα της παγκόσμιας λογοτεχνίας το οποίο φίλοι και μη του σκακιού πρέπει να το διαβάσουν....Ο Λούζιν είναι είναι ένα παιδί με κάποιο σύνδρομό ή κάποια ψυχολογική διαταραχή, του οποίου όλη η ζωή περιστρέφεται γύρω από το σκάκι.
Μέσα απο τις προσπάθειες της συζύγου του να επανέλθει ο Λούζιν καταλαβαίνει πως η ίδια του η ζωή είναι μια παρτίδα σκάκι την οποία είτε πρέπει να κερδίσει είτε να παρατήσει...
"Let's start if you're willing." -- Vladimir Nabokov, The Luzhin DefenseG.K. Chesterton once famously quipped in his book Orthodoxy that "Imagination does not breed insanity.
Mathematicians go mad, and cashiers; but creative artists very seldom."Vladimir Nabokov’s th!rd novel about a lonely chess grandmaster reminds me of  Franz Kafka and a little bit of Melville's Bartleby, the Scrivener.
Luzhin is sad, über-rational and beautiful in his madness.This novel reminds me of this Randall Munroe cartoon.History is full of mathematicians, logicians, physicists, and chess Grand Masters whose search for logical conclusions, 'transfinite' sets, perfect stability, etc, drives them nuts.
but not for us.” To men like Luzhin, life and chess are such lonely battles.
توصیف فوق العاده که زیرکی تمام درش به کار رفته بود.
زندگی لوژین سرشار بود از الگو های تکراری.
هر چند که در طول عمر سی ساله اش که سعی در فرار از این الگو ها داشت چندان موفق نبود.
به نظر من شاید تنها راه فرار او از زندگی واقعی اش پناه بردن به دنیای شطرنج بود با یک آیرونیه دردناک که این دلیل فرجام تلخ زندگی او شد.واقعا از خواندن این رمان لذت بردم و سعی کردم با حوصله وقت بگذارم و حتی از یک جمله به راحتی نگذرم.
ترجمه ی فوق العاده ای داشت و حق مطلب را به خوبی ادا کرد.
Ah Nabokov, your words are like the warm familiar embrace of an ex-lover who knows just what I like . . . except without all the self-disgust the next day.
واااااای فوق العاده بود...همه چیز این کتاب فوق العاده است..
ناباکوف انگار نشسته و با کافکا و فروید و بکت، شطرنج بازی میکنه.
همینطور که لوژین هزار بار بازی رو برد و مهره هارو از اول چیند...
چقدر دسته و پنجه نرم کردن با این مهره ها ؟ درست مثل همون هام و کلاو در آخرین بازی اثر سموئل گودو که هر مسیری میرفتن طی یک تکراری رو به بی نهایت ادامه پیدا میکرد.
This alienation is not unique to the reader, but a feeling felt by all who meet Luzhin: he is remote, inaccessible, too odd and too genius for the world in which he lives.Ultimately, like all of Nabokov's memorable puppets, Luzhin's sanity is the vicitm of his own illusions: a victimhood manifest even in his characteristic conception, as Nabokov informs us in the Foreward: "The Russian title of this novel is Zashchita Luzhina, which means 'the Luzhin defense' and refers to a chess defense supposedly invented by my creature, Grandmaster Luzhin: the name rhymes with “illusion” if pronounced thickly enough to deepen the 'u' into 'oo.'" Luzhin is at once a man totally blinded by illusion, and also a man of preternaturally clear vision.
Η περίφημη "Σκακιστική Νουβέλα" του Stefan Zweig υπήρξε βιβλίο ενδιαφέρον και καλογραμμένο, δίχως όμως να μου προξενήσει το απαραίτητο δέος, κάτι που οφείλεται σαφώς στον συγγραφέα: Ικανός γραφιάς, αλλά τίποτε πέραν αυτού - σαφώς υπερεκτιμημένος, κατά την άποψή μου.
"Η άμυνα του Λούζιν" δεν καταφεύγει στην ευκολία της περιγραφής περίπλοκων παρτίδων, σκακιστικών συλλογισμών και ψυχολογικής έντασης, ώστε να προ(σ)καλέσει το ενδιαφέρον του αναγνώστη.
Και ο Λούζιν αμύνεται σθεναρά ενάντια στον εαυτό του, ενάντια στο πάθος που τον κατακλύζει, καθώς η ζωή του μετατρέπεται σταδιακά σε μια τρομακτική αλληλουχία ασπρόμαυρων σκακιστικών τετραγώνων.
Και η τελευταία κίνηση ελευθερίας του, θα είναι τελικά εκείνη που θα του προσφέρει μια μικρή, ασήμαντη ανταμοιβή.

Over the last few weeks I’ve read The Luzhin Defense, followed by Bluebeard and then Do Androids Dream of Electric Sheep?Originally I was going to write some stuff here about the central characters and compare them with the original Outsider.
I was going to say things like this: Maybe it is a contradiction in terms, to put 3 books about outsiders in the same review, but I can’t stop myself.We have here a chess player, a doctor who might or might not have murdered a wife and a chickenhead.
Would love to watch this on screen.It reportedly stars John Turturro (presumably as the chess genius Luzhin) and Emily Watson (as his wife).
Nabokov's Luzhin is supposed to be short and fat, and his wife not that attractive.
Emily Watson is lovely, Turturro is lean and tall.
How did he illuminate Nabokov's brilliant chess metaphors, through Luzhin, who saw his life, from his childhood onwards, as a long chess combination, the fatal end to which he foresaw, desperately tried to find a way to avert, by defending, by countering the enemy's plans, by thwarting the attacks, with all the tenacity and strength he could muster?
Basically, the plot deals with the story of a genius, whose perception of life entwines with chess strategy.
Between ridiculously long description of interior decorating and questionable parenting, there is a semi-interesting plot hidden deeply into a bit overdramatic obsession.Luzhin stumbles through the novel like he's autistic.
Chess is his life, it consumes him to the point where not even his "devoted" wife can rescue him.
He's a two-dimensional character with no redeeming quality.Mrs Luzhin doesn’t seem like a convincing spouse, not even close.
Useless personality, though.
Mrs Luzhin in particular (Emily Watson in the film—delicious) doesn’t seem a convincing spouse, nor does her attraction to the über-tortured chess-whizz Luzhin (John Turturro in the film—delicious) seem particularly well-rationalised, outside his general weird-genius aura.
Luzhin stumbles through the novel like Rain Man, driven mad by trying to solve an impossible chess problem and his general uselessness as a human being.
Surprising how people cite Luzhin as a ‘warmer’ Nabokov character: I couldn’t stand his drivelling idiocy, and the intrigue for me fell to the way he was going to crush Mrs Luzhin’s heart.
Lucky for some.If you happen to be a chess genius, however, this is probably the greatest book you’ll ever read.
Το ασυνείδητο είναι δομημένο ως σκακιστική παρτίδα.
Even as Luzhin acknowledges the gulf between himself and his childhood memories, for example, the image of the vacant elevator provides him with the very metaphor he uses to describe his mental state: "the recollection also came back empty." Indeed, The Luzhin Defense, like much of Woolf's work, is preoccupied with the past and memory—specifically, in the case of Luzhin, with the effects on memory and perception of a concrete breaking-point in a character's personal history.
The theme of the book adds to the stereotype that Russians are obsessed with chess.
Some of the best writing in the book describes his complete absorption in the game:Luzhin, preparing an attack for which it was first necessary to explore a maze of variations, where his every step aroused a perilous echo, began a long meditation: he needed, it seemed, to make one last prodigious effort and he would find the secret move leading to victory.
This is where the writing in The Defense seems to come closest to Lolita:But the next move was prepared very slowly.
رضایی عالیناباکف بی نقصتنها از شطرنج نابلدی خود سخت خشمگینم
Origem do exemplar: Coleção pessoal. Língua da edição lida: Inglês. Tradução: Excelente. Género: Ficção; literatura.Avaliação: Bom.
However, a bit disappointed by its plot and something like stream of consciousness, I rated it as a three-star book obviously inferior to that four-star "Lolita" which I was not reluctant and happy to pass such a verdict to that one of the world famous controversial fictions in the 20th century.For those Nabokov newcomers, I think they may find reading its synopsis inspiringly informative and better understandable by visiting this site: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Def...
moreover, if you enjoy playing chess, please visit this one: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Luz..., especially those Grandmasters-to-be.Eventually, I think we should know something typical of Nabokov so that we would get ready and prepared to read his seemingly endless prose, stream of consciousness-like; therefore, we would find and endure reading many long paragraphs before encountering the real thing, that is, 7.5 pages (pp.
Ο Λούζιν είναι ένας άνθρωπος με πάθος.Και το μεγάλο πάθος του είναι το σκάκι.
Ένα τόσο μαγευτικό και δύσκολο παιχνίδι που αποτελεί έναν κόσμο μόνο του.
Μόνο στο άκουσμα της λέξης "σκάκι", ο Λούζιν σκέφτεται κινήσεις και συνδυασμούς για να αποκρυπτογραφήσει τον αντίπαλό του, είτε αυτός είναι πραγματικός είτε δημιούργημα της φαντασίας του.
Κλείνεται στον δικό του κόσμο με πιόνια και -όντας πανέξυπνος-αδυνατεί να επικοινωνήσει με την γυναίκα και το περιβάλλον γύρω του.
Un Nabokov da altissimi livelliRimuginavo da qualche giorno cosa mi ricordasse (non dico nella trama, ma nelle atmosfere cerebrali) Visioni, che ho appena finito di leggere.
Ecco, finalmente si è accesa la lampadina!
L'ossessione per la perfezione estetica (non è forse una forma d'arte il gioco degli scacchi?), la sublimazione della mente fuori dalla corporeità, l'inadeguatezza della genialità al mondo della materia; e anche il finale ha lo stesso tono apocalittico, il suo stesso anelito per la ricerca mette in scacco il protagonista e, letteralmente, lo uccide.
Grandissimo Nabokov (anche se, per come la vedo io, meglio il Nabokov "Russo" che il "Mericano"...)
Ήταν ένα είδος γυμνού τρόμου αυτό, αλλά ήταν και η μοναδική αρμονία, γιατί τι άλλο υπήρχε στον κόσμο πέρα από το σκάκι;»Από τ’αγαπημένα, αν όχι το αγαπημένο, θέματα του Ναμπόκοφ είναι η αφηγηματική διερεύνηση του χάσματος ανάμεσα σε μερικούς εσωστρεφείς, χαρισματικούς χαρακτήρες και στην αδυσώπητη πραγματικότητα.
Εντούτοις ο μάνατζερ του τον εγκαταλείπει καθώς ο Λούζιν δεν έχει την αναμενόμενη σκακιστική εξέλιξη και στην ενήλικη πορεία του.
Αισθάνεται για τον Λούζιν ένα δυνατό αίσθημα συμπάθειας και προστασίας που θα μπορούσε να ονομαστεί και μητρικό.Η καριέρα του Λούζιν παίρνει την ανιούσα.
Nearly five stars, nearly...Those who know any obsessively compulsive persons will really appreciate the effort Nabokov went into for this.
When you become so engrossed in your fixation that you begin to question what is reality.
Of course I would never use this as a guide to dealing with loved ones who have OCD or whatever, but it was insightful into another aspect of the mind of the human.
I have addictive tendencies, so perhaps I am lucky I never got into any activities like chess seriously.
Of course I'd never have the skill to be professional regardless.It's Nabokov, just read it.
http://mycosyreads.blogspot.com/2015/...Моя попытка получше узнать настоящего, не лолитинского Набокова, а свободного от нависающей «славы» скандального романа.
Язык все такой же замечательно «вкусный», сюжет интересен и захватывает.
Но что-то все равно было не так.
Тяжело мне дался Лужин – не исключено, потому что сам непростой человек.
Характер письма Набокова как бы погружает читателя в книгу.
Лужин – нетипичный персонаж, шахматист-вундеркинд, который и жизнь свою видит как одну замысловатую партию.
Легкая апатичность и леность сопровождают и без того непростой характер.
Ему лишь везло, что попадались ему на пути люди желающие возиться с ним как с ребенком.
Пытаться полюбить Набокова не брошу.
И когда закрываешь книгу, то еще несколько секунд с удивлением оглядываешься, где это ты и что здесь вообще происходит - настолько реальным оказывается происходящее в книге, так сильно оно увлекает и задевает.Все, что случается с Лужиным, не кажется надуманным хоть сколько-нибудь, не возникает впечатления, что вот эта сцена или эта деталь притянуты за уши или выдуманы автором для красного словца.
А потом, глядя на окружающих, с одержимостью специалиста по кино-кастингу думаешь, например, так: "А вот этот мог бы быть Лужиным, если бы еще чуть немного полнее и носил очки".
„მაგრამ სადღა იყო ალექსანდრ ივანოვიჩი.“❤️
Η ιστορία του Λουζιν ξεκινάει από μικρή ηλικία που δείχνει οτι δε του πάει και πολύ η ζωή, είναι μελαγχολικός, δεν έχει ενδιαφέροντα και φίλους, απλά τριγυρνάει και αναπνέει.
(ταύτιση) Αυτό μέχρι να έρθει σε επαφή με το σκάκι, οπου ξεκινάει μια ιστορία αγάπης μεγαλύτερη απ'της Ρούλας και του Φραν και καταλήγει σε εμμονή.
Ο τύπος ο,τι δεν έχει να κάνει με το σκάκι απλά αδιαφορεί.
Το βιβλίο δεν έχει κάποια ιδιαίτερη πλοκή, αλλά ο χαρακτήρας του Λουζιν είναι ένας λόγος να το διαβάσει κάποιος, ειδικά αν ασχολείται με το σκάκι.
Όπως είχε γράψει και ο Κασπάροβ, "η ζωή μιμείται το σκάκι".
