https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1129657.Heller_with_a_Gun
This is a typical L'Amour western. Gunfighter protects a group of eastern actors from a bunch of baddies. There is a twist ending: the problem is I could see the twist coming from a mile away. A good quick read for western fans.
I am not typically interested in western stories, (but I do like a good spaghetti western movie).
Heller with a Gun read like a movie, which means for me, that I had a hard time putting it down.
Lots of action, gritty back-country experiences and a little love story thrown in for good measure.
The protagonist happened to be a little too lucky, but the author does point this out multiple times...
Otherwise, if you are the kind of reader that reads a book for the action and the story, give this one a try.
Hemingway has nothing on L'Amour when it comes to the topic of manliness.The protagonist gets shot.
Twice.
He's left for dead and nearly freezes to death.
But after a hot fire, some black coffee, and about 24 hours of being laid up he's back in the saddle and blazing away.
Remarkable.The women think he's hot, and they should because he's saving their ass from murderers, rapists and Sioux.
He's tired of killing and at one point endures a lecture from one of the women about how wrong it is for him to kill.
No more lectures.
Actually pretty good by LL standards, in terms of some small mystery in the course of the plot. Pretty sure he picks titles out of a hat.
Its always a pleasure to find a Louis L'Amour book that I haven't read before. In Heller With a Gun, King Marby is being hunted because he turned down a gunfighter job. He stumbles across a troop of entertainers in the wilderness who have a secret of their own. The troop is being targeted for rape and murder by a member of the old Plummer gang and King attempts to save them. For the romantic, two women in the troop develop feeling for King.
Another well written book by Louis L'Amour. The plot is typical for L'Amour, but non the less, a fine enjoyable read and one that I never get tired of reading. Smooth dialog and wonderful narration with a somewhat believable story."Wind knifed at his exposed cheek. He drew deeply on his cigarette. Whoever followed him had the same problem. Find shelter or die. The wind was a moving wall of snow and the evening was filled with vast sound."
I've never read Louis L'Amour before, and after this I'm sorry about that. This is a short book, not a novel either in length or complexity (which was a little disappointing) but the fascinating characterizations and descriptions of the setting make more up for that. I will be coming back to L'Amour's books in the future.
I am sitting on our backyard deck shaded by a leaf canopy provided by Maple, Cherry, and Sassafras trees. It is a sunny day and there's is a gentle breeze. All in all, the perfect setting to read a L'Amour story. By the way, if you are a L'Amour fan the story is typical and a quick read. Analogous to comfort food for the brain.
Another interesting take on the old west. Yes, still good guys and bad guys, but add in a theatrical troupe working their way through the west. These are mostly eastern folks, out of their element and just trying to make a living, when they get into trouble. This seventh book by L'Amour does contain an interesting twist at the end, but I don't want to spoil it by putting it here.
I persist in my unfashionable appreciation of Louis L'Amour. The dialog was a trifle contrived at times, but L'Amour nonetheless merits his reputation as master storyteller with his evocative, genuine descriptions. I also think this plot particularly good.
This is the fourth Louis L'Amour book I've read and I cannot wait to read more. The characters, plot, locations all played their part in an enjoyable, satisfying read and it ended just as I hoped it would.
Another great western! Just had a need to read a couple of these. Quick read, but L'Amour never ceases to impress.Danny
Good story - engaging characters, nice geographic detail of Wyoming in the winter.
This one ends with a twist, and that was refreshing!
Picked this up because it's the basis for "Heller in Pink Tights," one of the 35+ movies based on L'Amour novels.
But the novel is interesting all by itself.King Mabry is a dead shot, and that's a burden.
Stopping to save a wounded man, he sees a performance troupe, including three women, preparing to make a truly perilous journey through hostile country in the dead of winter...
Nicely paced.From what I understand of the movie, it starts with the same basic situation, but runs far afield story wise - so your experience isn't spoiled by reading the novel.
so many cliches
He encounters the theatre troupe while on his way to finish a hired-gun job, and when he suspects that the man they hired to guide them through the Wyoming wilderness is up to no good, he feels like he should help, but at the same time he doesn't want to, he's tired of being a hired gun.
When the guide gets the troupe sufficiently isolated, he makes his move, one of the theatre men is killed, and the other, Tom Healy, takes off running.
I liked Healy too, he was a good guy.
"Clearly I should read a Louis L'Amour book.
How do I pick one?" She suggested that I pick the one with the most exciting picture on the cover.And so here we are.When I started reading this, I thought that it was my first western novel.
There are enjoyable scenes of the hero on his lonesome against nature, but a lot of the book hinges on scenes where fists "smash" into things and things are quiet...
I was tempted to eat the tear-out card.All in all, this book didn't get me itching to read any more Louis L'Amour.
The plot revolves around the hero, a man so ruggedly manly (we're told this about once every five pages, in case we forget) you begin to wonder whether his inability to express love for a woman he's infatuated with has more to do with his heart not being in it than her being a silly moo.
-'King Mabry aside, the minor characters are well-drawn (even if they talk about -'king Mabry a lot in case we forget he is Manly and a Killer when he's not in a scene) and several have noticeable character arcs.
This is one of my favorites so far. The interwoven love story is not what you expect. Or at least it won't end up where you expect.
Many of the trademark L'Amour themes are present: the skilled loner who wants no help, the capable young frontier girl (no red hair this time), the skilled bad guys, the mixed bag of Indians (some decent, some renegades, all very capable), and so on.But the romance is what takes this to another level, with twists and turns and uncertainty, leaving even someone like me who is not fond of romances liking both girls involved and wanting to see how it turns out right to the last pages.
An enjoyable early title from author L'Amour featuring one of his self sufficient western men who winds up trying to protect a small theatre troupe from outlaws and renegade Sioux on their way to Montana in the dead of winter.Western - Tom Healy was in trouble.
Although Tom didn't like the way he looked at Janice, he could see that Mabry made Barker uneasy.
So Tom invited Mabry to join them.
Tom was right to be worried, because Barker had a plan.
He and his men were going to steal it any way they could.

This was a great book and one of my favorites.
Once I started reading it, I couldn't put it down.
A theatre show was attempting to cross the west in the middle of winter and with 15 thousand dollars.
The person that agreed to guide them, Barker, attempted to steal their money and kill them.
Before they left the town prior to this, they met King Mabry.
He was the fastest man around with a gun and about as strong as they come.
He followed attempting to help and aided the clan in fighting Barker, his men, and Indians.
This is the straight-up Western, un-deconstructed, un-winking, straight-talking, straight-shooting, straight-faced Cowboys N’ Indians. A rip-roaring yarn that makes a fun afternoon. What surprised me (and it shouldn’t have) was how well-written this was. Louis L’Amour, there’s a reason you’re a legend. The Westerns will outlive us all.Plus, any book that has lines like this is a friend of mine: “Miserably he stared at the mountains. How could he make her understand? Or anyone who had not been through it? They tried to judge a wild, untamed country by the standards of elm-bordered streets and convention-bordered lives.”
This is an excellent example of early Louis L'Amour work.
It contains all the elements that made him one of the most read authors in American fiction.
Fast pacing, good character development and vivid "show but not tell" description.
The author's critics often complain that L'Amour's work always has the same formula-- a strong independent hero coupled with a romantic interest who protects a heroine or rights wrong.
True, but his ability as an author always made it work.
Any lover of the western genre should not pass up any of his work, especially his early ones..
Enjoyed the book. It was a good read (don't know that L'Amour can ever write a bad book). It was just not one of my favorites. Have now completed reading the first 10 books he wrote. Only have 82 more to go. :)
Like many of his books couldn't put it down, until I was done.
I like anything with action and this Book had plenty of it!
