https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/10552338-reamde
Me: la la la I'm sure this will be edifying and weird.Book: Yes this will be a book about math and philosophy and like, historical dudes  J/K actually I am like 14 Die Hards all squished together! Me: SHut up, I have to stop reading this and actually make a living!Book: no YOU shut up!! Me: Seriously, they say people need to sleep occasionally.Book: Bitch, I am NOT DONE. I will TELL YOU when you can sleep.
When I saw that this was going to be a modern day thriller that had something to do with a MMORPG, I thought Neal was finally taking pity on us poor readers of only average intelligence and attention span and giving us an easier book.Wrong.At over 1000 pages with a plot that races around the world and includes multiple characters in wildly different circumstances, Reamde is not a thriller you just breeze through, but like most things Stephenson, I found that the effort I put into it was rewarded with a wild and unique story and top notch writing.Richard Forthrast fled the US for Canada to avoid the draft during Vietnam and once the war was over he made a small fortune as a marijuana smuggler.
Regardless, the infodump and the plot are what the thriller's all about.With Reamde, Stephenson returns to contemporary America, discussing things like the setting of wind shield wipers on cars in Seattle, bears roaming the Rockies, and Walmart.
Nevertheless, for Stephenson's fans, these digressions are the hook that keeps readers turning pages, rather than the plot.And it is this reversal that makes Reamde a standout amongst thrillers.
Stephenson's achievement here is that he so easily demonstrates that a great thriller can be measured by the depth of its infodumps, rather than the just pace of its plot.
The fact that this book came out 2 days before I take a 12 hour flight to china is proof that god loves me and wants me to be happy.
When Stephenson writes really smart, I get annoyed while I force myself to finish the book (Quicksilver).
When he writes a (sometimes) action-packed crime novel full of terrorists and international espionage and virtual worlds (Reamde), I get stuck near page 100 or 200 and allow myself to be talked into pushing onward, and start regretting it around page 700, and feel annoyed when I finally finish.
I like books about virtual worlds.
This is really more of a two star book using my rating system, but a few things redeemed it slightly such as the female characters.I blogged an even longer review here.
Remind me never to read reviews written by my most ardent "fans."This book is great, but it appears #TeamStephenson was expecting the opening of the Ark of the fucking Covenant.If you want a smart, contemporary, geeky, international action thriller written by someone who just spent 10 years writing an epic about the connections between the tech of the 17th century and the tech of the 21st—in longhand, on, like, parchment, with a fountain pen, the showboating bastard—then read this.It's fun.
And funny.
And damned good.If you want something else, put this down, walk away, and go on witcha bad self.
I love Neil Stephenson (most of the time), and I loved this book - most of the time.
This is probably his most commercial/mainstream book yet - It screams please make me into to a Hollywood action movie, or big budget miniseries.
For my taste it screams this too loudly.The best parts of the novel are about the Chinese hacking and Gold Farming scene, the REAMDE virus- all classic slick Stephenson.
The shoot out with terrorists at the end had every cliché in the book - and why did it need to be sooooo long winded - bullet by bullet.
You get powerful depictions of the heartland of America, dynastic storytelling, and a sense of the US as a fractious, complex, fascinating entity; woven into this, though, is a new world of online gold farming and the economics of MMORPGs as they become more populous than many nations.So I was all set to read a kind of cross between John Steinbeck and William Gibson, and wondering whether this was going to be Stephenson’s “Great Book”.And then the action started.And did not stop.For nearly one thousand pages.This is not a measured, dynastic thriller stepped in draft-dodging, marijuana, and Warcraft.
I was willing to spend as much time as Stephenson would give me with Richard Forthrast the founder of the online game T'Rain and self proclaimed black sheep of the Forthrast clan; Zula Forthrast, the niece of Richard and the main catalyst for the plot of the novel; Sokolov, the Russian Spetsnaz trained mercenary; Csonger, the Hungarian computer hacker; Marlon, the Chinese hacker that hatched a brilliant plan to steal millions of dollars from T'Rain; Olivia, the British MI6 agent; Yuxia, the Chinese facilitator that gets caught up in much more than she expected when she offered to help; Seamus, the American CIA operative; and our ultimate bad guy, Abdallah Jones, international terrorist.
“Birth and death,” Chet said. “The poles of human existence. We’re like meridians, all beginning and all ending in the same place. We spread out from the beginning and go our separate ways, over seas and mountains and islands and deserts, each telling our own story, as different as they could possibly be. But in the end we all converge and our ends are as much the same as our beginnings  Neal Stephenson has taken the notion of a multi-player, on-line video game as the basis for an action novel
Neal Stephenson has taken the notion of a multi-player, on-line video game as the basis for an action novel and has raised it to the next level.
Unlike their in-game counterparts, the novel’s characters only get one life and must struggle to hang onto it against an assortment of unpleasantries, including Russian gangsters, storms at sea, massive urban explosions, petty criminals, predators of the furry, four-footed variety, booby traps, and a charismatic Welsh terrorist of the Al-Qaeda persuasion.
Stephenson has a lot of fun paralleling developments in the real world with action in the game world.
It’s a well known adage in the genre that if you read Neal Stephenson’s books, you’re there for a long journey.
But where this one scores is that, unlike some of his earlier work, it’s more accessible to the layman and I suspect will be another one of those genre books read by non-genre readers.
Personally, though, as someone who has had issues with some of his earlier work, I think it’s his most accessible and best yet.
It’s a huge thing and everyone seems to be playing it.At the start, we view a reunion of the Forthrast family, where we get to meet a number of people who are to play a significant role in this story.
Things then start to get crazy – very quickly.I won’t go into further detail regarding the plot but I will say that there are a lot of guns (both within the game and outside of it) a large cast of interesting characters and plenty of action.
The downside is that the whole thing (were you to think too deeply about the logistics involved) is dependent on a number of huge coincidences and some technology that I’m not sure exists in the real world.
Sometimes he allows you into their mind to experience each nagging insecurity or existential crisis they may have.He's big into writing about body language, setting, and giving readers context on cultures or situations that she may not understand.For example, the addictive quality of gaming for the non-gaming crowd: "She'd been awake for twenty-four hours.
Stephenson also enjoys writing about his characters concocting plans: "It is a classic Dilbert situation where the technical objectives are being set by management who are technically clueless and driven by these, I don't know, inscrutable motives." "Then we just need to scrutinize them harder.
Stephenson spent the first half of the novel setting a compelling scene: the world of T'Rain seemed lovingly crafted, and he spent time developing characters who promised to be compelling (even some of the villains).
By the end, I found myself finishing this book more out of a sense of duty than out of any curiosity as to how the story was going to wrap up — as if there was even any question on that front.As a long-time fan, I turn to Stephenson's works because his background allows him to tell stories that few other authors would possess the understanding to craft convincingly — who else could have written The Baroque Cycle, Cryptonomicon, Anathem?
REAMDE reads as though he started to write an interesting novel about massively multiplayer online gaming business and frauds, and inadvertently stumbled into writing an irritatingly conventional thriller novel about Islamic terrorists when the MMPORG novel turned out not to have enough action in it.
Its passages about the business around gaming read like the Neal Stephenson I expected.
Those moments are too far apart, though, and don't last long enough.With Snow Crash, Stephenson inspired legions of developers to try to create the virtual worlds that in some cases became the games REAMDE discusses; in Diamond Age he so thoroughly exploited the fictional possibilities of nanotech that hardly anyone has dared write about it since.
Neal Stephenson's Reamde is over a thousand pages long.
Exceptions exist, of course, and this novel caught my eye because 1) I had read and liked/loved Stephenson's The Diamond Age, Snow Crash, and Cryptomicon, and 2) I was experiencing one of those uncomfortable “I don't know what to read” stretches.
I'm glad I did.Reamde, like the other Stephenson books I've read, defies easy explanation.
Reamde reads like a James Bond novel written by a very smart, detailed-oriented OCD writer who gets bugged when the minutia doesn't mesh perfectly and, in turns, adds seventeen pages about Chinese fishing boats lest he bonk the specifics.
Strong characters both male and female, humor and lots of it (particularly around T'Rain), irony; even the ending was somewhat tongue in cheek.
This was actually an upbeat novel with almost all of the good guys surviving and the bad guys getting their comeuppance.
One is that the female characterization in particular is a little weak.
But if you are only going to have one type of female character, this is a good one.
It kept my interest and every time I put it down, I wanted to get back to it, but good grief, it took me months to get through.
Great book, but definitely an investment of time and energy.
in fact, the opposite was true, i was compelled to keep reading and reading...anyway you get the idea...so i ended up reading all 1042 pages of a book largely based on a subject that doesn't interest me, and there wasn't one boring page to be found.in fact, in addition to the gaming stuff, there is a tremendous amount of action in this book, and a very satisfying number of baddies get killed, some in spectacular fashion.
Absolutely loved everything about the virus, T'Rain, and the hackers.
Really wish the book would have focused more on that than (view spoiler)[on the terrorist plot (hide spoiler)].
With that, my attention was definitely held - but mostly because I wanted to see the conclusion of the story.One thing that did impress me, though, was the care that was put into ensuring the characters (good and bad ones) made logical decisions.
None of Stephenson's characters here are stupid, and it was satisfying to come up with, say, things the antagonists might overlook, only to have them take those things into consideration a few paragraphs later and deal with them.
This book was over the top...it read like Ian Fleming was alive and forced to write an action movie with Tom Clancy.
A 6 hour long action movie.
Just as with any over-the-top action movie, you have to suspend disbelief to enjoy it, and it was certainly fun.
Unfortunately, there was just too much schmaltz for the action alone to carry it.
To be fair, I also had high expectations for this book after reading Anathem, so that also accounts for my lower rating.
I would recommend it to others looking for an crazy action-packed story, but would certainly not recommend it for someone looking to read their first Stephenson book.
(Well, one can only hope the War on Terror will be dated years from now - probably not, though.) It's all story and Stephenson stills loves his Heinleinesque characters (while thankfully not being quite as sex-obsessed as old Bob), and in many ways it's a more matured, polished novel than Cryptonomicon.
I don’t want to spoil the ingenious plot, but it’s fair to say that a motley set of individuals of diverse nationality get drawn into the action of her side (including family members, spies, and hackers) and that a lot of the focus has to do with a massive role playing computer game called T’Rain, which was developed by her uncle.In many ways, the action unfolds like a computer video game.
Both are by authors that I have previously enjoyed.
(Well, my reading relationship with Stephenson started out a little rocky, but it's gotten better of late.) They are both authors whose previous works have thrown off ideas like candy, been provocative and engaging.
And they both turned in books in this round of reading that are mere technothrillers.
Well-written technothrillers, but I want more.Note: The rest of this review has been withdrawn due to the changes in Goodreads policy and enforcement.
You can read why I came to this decision here.In the meantime, you can read the entire review at Smorgasbook
Which is to say, I have read all of Neal Stephenson's novels, most of them two and three times over.
REAMDE a good, long, and involving read.
I wanted to lose myself in a big old adventure novel and I did.
I got an info-dump in the form of a novel, and it was exactly what I wanted.
But Reamde is no Baroque Cycle.
In fact, let me do what, as a big fan, I am uniquely qualified to do.In descending order of Awesomeness:1: The Baroque Cycle2: Cryptonomicon3: The Diamond Age4: REAMDE5: Snow Crash6: Anathem7: Zodiac
Snow Crash is one of my favorite books, and I really enjoyed Cryptonomicon, but I was a bit disappointed with The Diamond Age, so I wasn't sure what to expect here.In many ways this feels like a spiritual successor to Cryptonomicon.
Just like cryptography serves as a backdrop for that book, Gaming (particularly MMO's) does so here.
Things maybe get a little bit close to "chosen one" levels, but for the most part I think Mr. Stephenson does a good job in creating a back story to make things stay closer to "feasible" than fiction.So will you enjoy this one?
The book stops being clever or even entertaining, after a while it's just a lot of stuff happening to a lot of people with whom you almost identify, but not quite, because Stephenson never takes the time to adequately develop most of his characters.After I wrote the above, I looked up Reamde's rating on Amazon, which shows it as a little more then three stars at this point.
But still, after being completely awed by a few of Stephenson's five-star-plus novels (Snow Crash, Cryptonomycon, The Diamond Age), Reamde was a real let-down.
A thousand-page thriller with essays on spy training and economy of MMOs. This is Neal Stephenson, all right!His books do make for good brain candy - some new speculative or descriptive idea on modern technology to wrap your head around.
Reamde doesn't seem to focus on that as much as say, Anathema or Snow Crash, and instead more on the 'thriller' aspect instead of the 'philosophy of science and technology', and it is not quite as enjoyable.Although it must be said that Stephenson does have a gift for making thousand-page bricks fun.
A fast paced thriller which careens around the world leaving death and destruction in its wake.
It features the Russian mafia, CIA, FIB, MI6 and various police forces.
It sets jihadis off against an unlikely coaltion which includes American backwoodmen and computer geeks.
As ever with this writer there is a heady mix of cutting edge tech - for me at least - and action.Stephenson does massive sprawling books but I have to say that this needed to be 1000 pages and more to fit it all in.
At a certain point, they become so indistinct that Stephenson simply starts referring to them as "the jihadist s." In this book, he would never so blithely lump together the different weapons being fired - proof that here the weaponry has more character depth than the villains.Overall, I thought this book was a ton of fun.
Rather than making the drop and getting the information, the crazy Mafia guy decides to track down the author of the virus and eliminate him.
There's the war between the main characters and the jihadists that is the center of the book.
But I think it's time people stopped doing this, because Reamde is showing that the charm and goodwill is starting to wear off.First off, Stephenson seems far too concerned with illustrating the proper way to remove a Makarov from a shoulder holster than he does in creating a realistic female character.
And in a manner similar to Clancy, Stephenson creates a Manichean world of quirky-yet-lovable spooks, gamer geeks and survivalist right wingers vs.
