https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/21927528-featuring-the-saint
Although given that the tale includes betrayal, subterfuge, burglary, drugs, the illicit smuggling of women and a hero not shy of a bit of murder, it’s obviously much more in the Fleming ballpark.Why The Saint isn’t as well known a character as the other two is something I can’t possibly answer on the evidence of one story.
But if you think of Bond, if you think of Batman, then today’s audiences like their heroes to have a bit of brooding and self-doubt, and it’s hard to really brood when you’re posing at a jaunty angle with a halo on your smug head.
As much as I enjoy watching the tv show starring Roger Moore and listening to radio show with Vincent Price, I have never once read one of the books in the books in the series by Leslie Charteris.
Featuring the Saint includes two novellas called "The Logical Adventurer" and "The Wonderful War".
Both are quite enjoyable, but it was much easier to follow the writing style of the second one.
The style is much more direct rather than the incredibly roundabout method used in the first.
If you like the show I definitely recommend the books.
I'm looking forward to reading more of them!
This includes one of my favourite of all Saint stories, The Wonderful War, in which Simon Templar brings off a South American revolution with the help of two friends.The other two stories are set in England, now safe once again for Templar following his royal pardon.
In these, the Saint aims to rid the world of two men who prey upon others: a drug dealer, and a man who has made his fortune after murdering his partner.
The serious side of the preceding stories is still apparent; the Saint's activities lack something of the facetiousness that came to characterise them later.
Disappointing, but pleased I've read one Saint book.
The Wonderful War sees Simon planning and executing a bloodless revolution to overthrow a corrupt Latin American government, and in The Man Who Could Not Die he avenges the murder of a friend.But although this is the fifth book in the Saint Saga, the exact chronology seems to be more involved.The second story refers to events in the first, and is therefore later.
This book holds several short stories. I truly enjoyed the Saint's machinations in creating a bloodless revolution in a South American country. The timbre of the stories reflects the times in which they were written.
3 o.k. stories of which the 2nd seemed the most implausible where the Saint gets a country to want their leader dethroned;starting date is approximate
an ok read. Cool protagonist
This story ranks as an excellent example of pulling the wool over the eyes of others and letting the Irish rule at the head.The Man Who Could Not Die or How to Use a Pin and Burst a Reputation of Death.
Initially piqued at the public reputation of a lucky man who cannot die (as he has placed his neck many times himself), the Saint uncovers the real story of a man with unscrupulous means.The "Or's" above are my own invention.
Consider the books of the Saint for your dose of adventure to keep yourselves sane.
I don't compare it to the "serious reads" I or anyone else has given four stars to.
Three novellas for the price of one in the best 1930s Boys Own style: the Saint knows all, sees all, does all.
But even one of them, despite being bound hand and foot, gagged, and drugged, manages to get up and walk around a bit!Templar even instigates a banana-republic revolution--for all the right reasons of course, and without a shot being fired, at least on purpose.A cracking good read for when you just want to be amused.
Three tales featuring Simon Templar(AKA the saint)...its a strong collection, I found the first tale
FEATURING THE SAINT was first published in 1931.
But he makes the mistake of murdering an old friend of The Saint, it was ruled an accident, and having designs on a young woman.These stories were written early in Charteris' career and were very much of their time.
The Saint here is different from the later stories and far different from the Roger Moore TV version.
I received this book as part of the Goodreads first-reads program.
This was my first time to read any of The Saint stories though I have seen and enjoyed the television series with Roger Moore.
This book is a collection of 3 Simon Templar ("The Saint") stories originally published in 1931.
"The Logical Adventure", "The Wonderful War", and "The Man Who Could Not Die" are all witty and intelligent tales of this modern day Robin Hood.
I also thoroughly enjoyed the additional publication history and mini-biography included in this edition of the book.
I highly recommend this book to new and seasoned readers of The Saint.
Well, I tried really hard to enjoy this book. It started out promising, with all the things I love about Sherlock mysteries and Doc Savage action adventures. But somehow, the stories just unraveled. I thought the book was okay. But nothing that really kept my interest; I found it harder and harder to pick this book back up once I'd set it down. Sorry, goodreads giveaway, but this book just didn't work for me.
Nice collection of stories featuring Simon Templar==The Saint. Who is he? He is a former criminal, sort of spy and detective who works on his own. He sees things that others don't and has elaborate schemes to figure out what to do about a situation. Over it all, he is determined, but comes across as not nervous and always one up on the other person.Charmingly written
Not the best Saint collection ever, though a ripping read as always. I got a bit bogged down in the South American clichés of the second story, 'The Wonderful War', having enjoyed the first tale with its aviation action. The third story, 'The Man Who Could Not Die', I thought was a brilliant concept which I won't spoil. It is pure Saint, with some classic Teal too.
I won my copy of Featuring the Saint from Goodreads, and I love it!!!! It has me wanting more of the Saint a great read.
Enjoyable romps - amazingly written when Charteris was in his early 20s, which might explain why they are overwritten. But putting that aside, they are great escapist fun.
