https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6515096-the-hanging-stranger
Dick was only 25 years old reveals the younger writer to be interested in horror as much as his later dominated genre of science fiction.
A reader wonders what may have come if this story had become more popular and the young writer persuaded to follow the paths of H.P. Lovecraft and Richard Matheson rather than becoming a pioneer in the science fiction field.
Still, this early work demonstrates his ability to convey an eerie sense of unorthodoxy and hints at an early idea of mental illness, both elements that would become ubiquitous in his later works.
It's why I changed to the other (I was lucky enough to find out that the narrator who had done the previous short story so impeccably well had also narrated a version of this story).As seems to be typical PKD, it's all about setting a certain scene before a nice twist or culmination of the horror one felt rising throughout the story.
The ending was a bit more predictable than in the other story I just read but it was still a very nice set-up and should make the reader's skin crawl.
I'm running out of ways to say Dick writes superbly well and I'm really enjoying his work as I progress through it.Just to be different, I'll talk about the stuff I didn't like so much.
It feels like a slight cop-out, but I think I'm right in saying this is a very early story.
It's a little Lovecraftian in this sense, with the added mental-state side to it, but I want to enjoy Dick for being Dick, not for being a bit Lovecraftian.The characters were a bit meh, but that tends to happen with most short stories.
Very early PKD horror/SF. A creepy ghost story with tie-ins to psychopomps and police. :) It really showcases his early knowledge of religions even though it's just a scare/scare. :) Very short story, but quite pleasurable. :)
On his flight out of town, Loyce soon finds himself faced with the uncomfortable question of whom he can still trust.A few days ago, I happened to re-watch one of my favourite films, Philip Kaufman’s “Invasion of the Body Snatchers”, which is based on the earlier movie by Don Siegel, which, in turn, is an adaptation of a Jack Finney novel published in 1955, some two years after the short story The Hanging Stranger by PKD.
It is also scary classic sci-fi thriller, a paranoid repast spiced up a few generous shakes of insect fear.
First published in Science Fiction Adventure (December 1953), it still carries a power impact today.Ed Loyce, returning to his TV repair shop after working all morning in his basement, is shocked to discover the body of an unknown man hanging from a lamp post in the square.
Soon Loyce uncovers the disturbing truth: the people town have been replaced by insect that are extraordinarily adept at mimicry.The story is exciting, with a few twists and turns, and concludes and a surprising—and inevitable—conclusion.
This story encapsulates the era so nicely. It picks at the edges of the false narrative of the perfect post-war America. The veneer of optimism almost but not quite obfuscating the deep red paranoia and suspicion. The Other is here, and they must be purged. Something worth noting is that when Dick was writing this, lynchings were still common in the United States and were likely presented with the same indifference. And this story points the way towards The Twilight Zone and The Outer Limits.
Dick must've been reading a lot of Kafka when he wrote this one.
Ed Loyce has been working in his basement - he decides to take a break from the subterranean work and walks to town and checks in with his repair shop.
On his way there, he sees a horrific scene: a dead body hanging from a light post in the town center.
Why do people walk by with no care?
Ed soon realizes that this dead body in the plaza is the least of his concerns...Great short story - like a Twilight Zone episode - originally published in 1953 in Science Fiction Adventures, and reproduced in many of the PKD compendiums.
It was great!
ILLUSTRATED BY SMITHOpening: Five o'clock Ed Loyce washed up, tossed on his hat and coat, got his car out and headed across town toward his TV sales store. He was tired. His back and shoulders ached from digging dirt out of the basement and wheeling it into the back yard. But for a forty-year-old man he had done okay. Janet could get a new vase with the money he had saved; and he liked the idea of repairing the foundations himself!
I've arranged my thoughts on this story into a haiku:"Mere hysteria,One might think sprung from fancy,But nope! Nope, nope, nope."
The only thing that I disliked was towards the end, it completely switched perspectives and it got confusing.Plot Summary- Loyce was working in his cellar all day.
Loyce goes up to the bank and sees these huge moth/man aliens coming down and inhabiting the townspeople.
The commissioner then goes to help him and explains that the man hanging in the square must have been a test to see who was being controlled by the aliens or who was missed.
Characterization- In the beginning of the story, Loyce was very surprised and confused on why no one else was getting upset about the dead body.
I know Dick's novels, but I had yet to investigate his short stories and I started with "The Hanging Stranger."A lovely exercise in simplicity, Dick beautifully ratchets up suspense and creates mood, but keeps it simple.
And the ending is incredibly satisfying (and, frankly, I'm surprised I didn't see it coming as I usually can see endings coming a mile away.)If you're looking for a short read, I highly recommend this.
Probably take an hour to read, tops, and probably less (I was interrupted a lot during reading).You can find it free on Amazon kindle along with a plethora of other PKD short stories.
Possibly my favorite of all of Dick's stories.
Another good PKD readI had my suspicions, but was caught off guard in the end.I recommend it if you like the twilight zone.
Sort of typical '50s paranoia science fiction tale. Much like many Twilight Zone episodes. Does veer into horror a bit.
رايح شغلك الصبح تلاقي جثة واحد مشنوق متعلقة من حبل في عمود النور.
والنَّاس تمر عليها ولا تبالي .
تحاول تلفت نظر الناس للمشنوق ، فيستغربون اهتمامك و يعتبرونك مجنون ..الغريب ان الناس تعتبر هذا الامر طبيعي ، وان الشرطة والسلطات يعرفون الحكاية ، ولابد ان لهم اسباب .وافضل شيء هو ان يهتموا بشؤونهم ..تكتشف ان في كائنات كالحشرات لكنها قادره على التشكل في شكل بشري هي التي سيطرت على عقول الناس كلها الا انت ربما لانك كنت مشغول داخل قبو بيتك.تقرر ان تهرب من المدينة الى اخرى تقابل مخافظ المدينة ، فيخبرك انه فعلا يعرفون الحكاية ، ويأخذك الى ميدان به عنود نور وحبل معلق ويتم شنقك، ويمر الناس عليك دون ان يبالي احد ...قصة قصيرة رائعة لفيليب ديك اسقاطها السياسي شديد الوضوح يتحدث فيها عن قدرة السلطات على السيطرة على مشاعر الناس ، وإفقادهم الاحساس بمصائب الغير وجرائم السلطة مهما بلغت بشاعتها ..القصة تحتمل ايضا تفسير وجودي فلسفي عن معنى الاغتراب الوجودي وعدم القدرة على التواصل مع الاخرين و القصة مليئة برعب يشبه رعب لوفركرافت مع مزيج بسيط من الخيال العلمي الخاص بزائري الفضاء .
The tv show was really different and a lot more relatable (I think the tv segment is best viewed during the time when it wasn't quite clear Trump was going to be #45...
I think that was the genius of the adaptation, because in the short story, it's clearly a story about paranoia and the surrounding mental illnesses.
it's only clear that this is the subject of the story if you step back from your initial assessment that it was vilifying your political opponents and see that your political opponents would say the same thing.
No, it's about mental illness...
Now that was good to read of course.
Honest I didn't expect it like that way...The name of that prime figure named Loyce!
It occur first when he noticed that dead man who was hanging out from the top of a tree.
Though everyone could see it but surprisingly no one showing any interest on that or do something about that dead body.
It of course freak him out.
But they couldn't hack Loyce's mind so it was then him alone who tried his best to bring a plan to fight against them.
Though of course he did try to bring out his family too.
I was not remotely a fan of the particular episode that was inspired by this story, but I was intrigued enough to find the original story and read it.And I was so glad I did!(view spoiler)[ I am fine with short stories being open ended, and this one was a reasonable length for that.
I am also conflicted if stories are totally pessimistic, with no hope anywhere on the horizon, but this one was sufficiently optimistic with the curiously interesting Biblical references  (hide spoiler)]I would definitely recommend this to anyone who has enjoyed anything by Philip K Dick, and also to readers who enjoy short stories and/or science fiction.
A story that takes you full circle … and round again!
You know, something like that Ku Klux Klan.
Communists or Fascists taking over.
.] I’m glad to know it’s on the level.”“Controlled, filmed over with the mask of an alien being that had appeared and taken possession of them, their town, their lives.”“Loyce gazed up, rigid with horror.
The splotch of darkness, hanging over the City Hall.
Things, descending from the sky, pausing momentarily above the City Hall, fluttering over it in a dense swarm and then dropping silently onto the roof.
Fluttering shapes from the sky.
Fast-paced and well-written. The reader feels as if he/she is going through events alongside the protagonist. I have to admit, the confusion and panic were palpable, making me read even faster to get more information. Very effective, I must say.This story works on many levels- on a sci-fi level with the Lovecraftian alien invasion and on a political level, protesting state-perpetrated violence against outsiders and the brainwashed culture of "sheeple" in a late capitalist society.The twisted plot projected against the more everyday, idyllic setting of wholesome, postwar America makes it all the more chilling and poignant. Mission accomplished, Mr. Dick.
A Strange and Frightening Science Fiction Story!"The Hanging Stranger" is a science fiction short story by one of the masters of the genre, Philip K Dick.
It is a wonderful example of the author's skill at crafting a story that works on more than one level as the protagonist struggles to ensure that he is not losing his mind as strange and horrifying events continue to unfold around him.
Even you, as a reader, are required to decide if the protagonist is crazy or actually fighting against strange aliens.
It is a story you will remember for a very long time!!!
A short story by Philip K Dick in his younger days.
This story has a bit of an eerie feel to it.
Moreover though, it hits on an interesting point by showing the futility of trying to find help when it is the people sworn to protect who are out to get you.
It's a frightful world when your first line of defense is no longer on your side.
It can be argued that this is leaning towards mental illness or paranoia, but it is an interesting line of thought considering the media focus on police brutality and overstepping.
A simple but effective story with so much to unpack. Do you see what others see? Can they see what you see? What makes you a stranger? What is strange about you? A great story for today's world, challenging ideas about identity, alienation and majority rule. Is something right or wrong because most people think so or because the ruling powers deem it so? Is this where democracy goes wrong? Birds of a feather flock together, so the adage says.
Wow.. When I read through the story, I quite didn't understand the full implication of it, who was controlling, and things like that.There were a lot of unanswered questions, which I started Googling, and finally hit upon this marvelous analysis:https://philipkdickreview.wordpress.c...Well, to some extent, I do believe that the context is still relevant to modern times. Bravo!! Well written, and amazingly fast-paced
As creepy and intense as it is short. LIGHT SPOILER ALERT I kept wishing this was a true alien invasion and not a psychotic break, otherwise the killing of the child would hurt even more. Weird how that works, the alien invasion means all of them are dead, and yet a single death is a tragedy while a billion is a statistic, right?
One day a man emerges from working in his basement to discover a hanged man in the middle of his small town. No one else in the town seems disturbed by this, and as he investigates he discovers a reason more terrible than he originally imagined. Great, horrifying, grotesque story-telling as usual form Philip K. Dick.
Read on Serial Reader--a 2-issue short story. It all starts with a hanging man only one other man seems to notice. A stranger, dirty, a little beat up. Where did he come from, and why does no one seem perturbed?Creepy and clever.
Scary short story by a talented authorWell-written, fast-paced, and creepy. Quick to read and enjoyable. I could see the action unfolding, and liked the psychological aspects of seeing something horrible, and being told by others it's unimportant. Chilling and memorable!
