https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1282954.The_Last_Anniversary
I actually feel jealous of all the people who still have all of Liane Moriarty's books to read, when I'm going to have to wait for her next one to come out.
Along the way, Sophie will discover the truth about the Munro baby, fall in love, meet old friends and make new, and will still hate the fact that she has a blushing disorder.Sophie is the main character but one of my favorite characters in this book is Margie, Thomas' Mom. Margie is a overweight, motherly type, whose husband Ron is always making fun of her and treating her as if she's a lesser person.
Not my favorite Liane Moriarty read by any means, but an interesting mystery just the same.So.........What happened to Jack and Alice Munro?
(view spoiler)[(that doesn't happen until the very end of the book) (hide spoiler)] Way to go Rose!Overall, am sorry to say, this multi-"storied" novel turned out to be a bit of a tedious read, but I do so love this author and look forward to reading more of her work.
These stories tie in with realness and nuances captured with each situation.
Grace is a character that was portrayed with an honesty that was very clear and real, the author captured this struggle eloquently.
The gorgeous mostly female members of this family are the only residents on this little island of Scribbly Gum. Eva Cassidy is mentioned in this book, so I have to say Liane you are amazing!
Also, and so not important al all, but these are the things I love..
Love that her first works are as good as her new.
That’s not to suggest that this book doesn't have any merit – it does – but I do think it lacks the polish of her later work.Here we are introduced to a large group of characters who have some link (largely familial) to two sisters who grew up on a small privately owned island close to Sydney.
I’ve learnt that we tend to start close to the end, with a mystery to be resolved, and then delve back into the past before working our way forward to the final solution.
Sophie Honeywell: terrifyingly thirty-nine years old, mortifyingly single; blessed with a disorder called ‘Idiopathic Craniofacial Erythema’, or ‘severe facial blushing'.Thomas Gordon: her ex-boyfriend; Their break-up was spectacularly bad; he is part of an eccentric family living on Scribbly Gum Island, where everyone hid a secret of their own.
Connie always maintained that love was not a feeling, it was a decision.Once again a family entertain and capture the reader's attention the Moriarty style.
Another entertaining and totally charming book from Liane Moriarty.
I loved all the characters.
I loved the setting which was actually not far from where I live!
And I loved the way the quirky and the funny was mixed with serious issues like post natal depression and anaphylaxis.
The final revelation about who the Munro baby actually was came as a delightful surprise and then right at the very end Rose has one final little shock for the reader.
I believe I have now read all her books so I will look forward to what she publishes next:)
Typically, when reading a good book, I think of “the story” in terms of a character.
This is the first time, where “the story” (AKA “the secret”) felt like an entity of its own, with the characters circling around it, each adding to the overall greatness I was reading.
I really like Liane Moriarty’s storytelling so I didn’t even read what this was about going in.
Ultimately, The Last Anniversary was about a close kept secret and the quirky family that held it.
(view spoiler)[Only Sophie’s ending didn’t work 100% for me.
After I went crazy about Liane Moriarty's "What Alice Forgot" last month, I ordered another of her books, "The Last Anniversary." What a disappointment!
I will agree with the book jacket's assessment, "her characters are eccentric." To say the least.
I may have overstated my praise for "What Alice Forgot" when I compare it to books like "Ahab's Wife" for example, but let me just say that based on this experience, if you're going to read Liane Moriarty, read "What Alice Forgot" and check out the others at your own risk.
★★★I tried to read this book before, about two years ago, and didn't finish. This month, it is the BOTM in one of my favorite groups so I'd figure I would give it another shot. Again, I found the plot slow and the character development to be overkill, taking up the first half of the book just reading each character's perspective on every little thing. I remembered why I DNF'd the first time around. But, I am so glad I stuck it out because when the family dynamics and mysterious plot began to tak
But, I am so glad I stuck it out because when the family dynamics and mysterious plot began to take shape in the latter half of the book, I became thoroughly invested and ultimately enjoyed the experience.This ended up being a perfectly timed read with Mother's Day just a few days away.
I experienced this condition myself after the birth of my son and Moriarty's depiction of a new mother struggling with this brought both memories and tears.
Another longish book by Liane Moriarty, but this time it didn't bother me as it was the case with Truly Madly Guilty, because I enjoyed the time spent in the company of several very interesting, yet ordinary characters.Liane Moriarty has women penned down perfectly.
As far as I'm concerned, the wonderful thing about Moriarty's books is that all characters are very realistic.
They're simple yet complex, they're imperfect.While this novel didn't have the big dramatic reveal, it was a very enjoyable book, well worth listening to for 15 hours.
2.5★My least favorite of the Moriartys. I only finished hoping for that trademark twisted surprise ending and what little there was of that disappointed. I had to resort to the Evelyn Wood approach to reading to get through this one. I'm ready for some man-lit.
I've been placed in the dental chair of chick lit before for my ladies' book club and was pleased with the outcome of Moriarty's most recent two novels.With that said, there are caricatures here aplenty.
A (stunningly beautiful) single, nearing-40 career woman pining for a husband and family.
The repeated lust for cinnamon toast and the compulsion to read romance novels while gobbling Turkish delight was also different for me.Sadly, these sickeningly sweet concepts inserted repeatedly reminded me that I was again put by my book club commitment in that dental chair of chick lit.
Liane Moriarty delivers another solid "beach read with a brain" in "The Last Anniversary". Like many of Moriary's books, "Anniversary" has a good plot and a terrific cast of believable characters. Much of the plot centers on relationships -- romantic, familial, platonic, etc. This one has a lighthearted "mystery" thrown in, which most readers will at least partially figure out fairly easily.Readers who hate ambiguity may not enjoy the ending of this one. While not as good as "The Husband's Secret" or "Big Little Lies" it was still very enjoyable.3.5 stars rounded up to 4 stars.
I gave up. Life is too short, and I was too bored.
Gah! I will come back to this. I just couldn't get into it :(
If not for my curiosity over this novel's Munro Baby Mystery, I would surely have abandoned the book. I did not enjoy getting to know any of the characters, least of all Sophie, who kept me wondering exactly what anyone could see in her. Even the more endearing characters (Connie & Rose) are disappointing by the time it's all over.
Disappointing Ms Moriarty.
I've read some of your other books and they have been much better.
Your characters in this book were either boring or ridiculous in spite of all your obvious effort in making them cute and quirky.
You did touch upon some very important themes- loss, abandonment, motherhood, marital relationships, adultery, post partum depression, single motherhood, being single in a "married" world, spinsterhood, family relationships, friendship, the list goes on..
( and I don't want to add any spoilers) But you didn't delve into any one particular theme with any great care or depth.
It's a wonder I finished the book.
Moriarty has done better.
It's hard not to have fun reading her books.
Despite all the fun and frivolity there are many strong issues and themes here.
This one revolves around a big crazy family who are all involved in a mystery set in the fictional place called Scribbly Gum island.
The setting is unique and the storyline is straight out wacky the family deal with the generational family business surrounding this mystery and how it has affected them all in different ways.
The book could have easily turned into a farcical mess but she was able to restrain enough to keep it on track without turning it into a parody act.
I have now officially exhausted my supply of Liane Moriarty novels, and am missing them already:-( This was possibly my favorite, along with What Alice Forgot and her most recent, Big Little Lies.
Moriarty just has a style that sucks you in immediately, and the characters are ones I feel an instant interest in, though I sometimes do not take much of a liking to them (as was the case with The Husband's Secret - which still managed to be entertaining).
In any case, it is not confusing in this novel.
Actually more like 4.5 stars.This is the story of Sophie, who lives in Sydney and works in Human Resources.
Since she broke up with Thomas three years previously, Sophie has not had a relationship and is starting to feel that she will never get married or have children.
When Thomas comes to see her to tell that his Aunt Conne has left her house to her, she is surprised but moves to the house on Scribbly Gum Island wanting a fresh start.
The characters were all so vividly drawn, so real and rich and complex, that this was a joy to read.The story kept me interested throughout and I wanted to keep reading.
Truth be told I actually liked the wife much better than stupid Sophie!
So for the "rest" and believe me there were plenty of them--author gets 5 stars for character development.So now this leaves me with the dilemma of how to rate this book???
I think it is very possible to LOVE a book when you hate the characters if the author has set forth to make them despicable or evil.
However, I think it's very hard to like a book when you dislike the characters but the author was trying to portray something completely different, which was the case here.
The main character is the most spoiled, ignorant twit on the fictional planet.
She breaks up with her perfect boyfriend on the eve of his marriage proposal and then wished she could have postponed the breakup for the free trip to Fiji.
Despite that, I was really interested in the Munro baby mystery and Grace's battle with postpartum depression.
When the main character confessed to being jealous of an armless and leg less woman with a handsome husband and asked if the woman rode by on s skateboard and pulled on his trouser leg to get his attention, I had had enough.
The story starts with 39-year-old Sophie Honeywell finding out that she has inherited a house on Scribbly Gum Island on the Hawkesbury River.
Scribbly Gum Island is famous for the “Munro Baby Mystery”, a seventy-year-old unsolved crime involving a cake, a kettle, some bloodstains and a newborn baby.
Moriarty manages to touch on a myriad of topical subjects: lesbianism, post-natal depression, nut allergy, parental cruelty, mothering instinct, suicide, support groups, children’s fiction and bonding with newborn babies.
And Grace’s comment on support group philosophy “Every day is a gift, Jake.
I was sorry to reach the end of this novel: I loved the characters and really enjoyed this read.
Love is a decision.Quite predictable, and the characters were a bit stereotypical - absolutely perfect for a beach read! And as I'm currently on holiday I thoroughly enjoyed it. I have read almost all of Liane Moriarty's books (except for one) and the two best ones are What Alice Forgot and Big Little Lies, but in all of them she has a unique way of saying something that you already know and believe in such a way that you go - yes, yes that's exactly what I feel. I can't wait to see what she does next.

First book by this author that I did not enjoy. I was racing through it, trying to finish, so I could read something good. Convoluted plot, many unlikeable characters, and I saw the "secret" coming from nearly the beginning. Very disappointing read.
A good book about the lovely quirky community on the island of Scribbly Gum. The story plods along charmingly and is written from the viewpoint of each character. There is drama, sadness, grief, happiness, struggles, love and all aspects of the human experience. The characters are portrayed with all their goodness and flaws intact. You end up liking them all despite their flaws. I wanted to give it 3.5 stars but the app wouldn't let me. A lovely page turner with a hint of mystery. I really enjoyed it and would read more by this author.
4.5 starsThis is my first novel by Liane Moriarty (which feels strangely like making a confession.)The characters made me laugh, particularly Sophie and her parents. I also found the scenes with Grace and her new baby very well done.
3 1/2 stars really...I enjoyed the book but it didn't draw me in to the characters lives, I think there were too many of them and I had to keep stopping to think who was related and who was whose daughter etc. nice story although I guessed the twist (I never guess the twist!)
Odavno se nisam tako mučila sa nekom knjigom kao sa ovom i to baš knjigom moje omiljene Moriarty. Suprugova tajna mi je bila odlična, Male laži još i bolje, sjećam se da sam ovu knjigu prošle godine na moru pročitala za samo dva dana. A onda Posljednja obljetnica koja naizgled ima sve kao i ove dvije, ali ipak ne. Očigledno napisana prije njih ovo je zapravo Moriarty u nastanku. Bespotrebno odugovlačenje radnje, brojni nesimpatični ženski likovi, a onda zbrzan rasplet...slabo, vrlo slabo...
