https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/502889.Destry_Rides_Again
First of all, forget the film. Aside from the title, film and book are quite different. This is a better than average pulp western and, as is the case with many of Brand's westerns, has an anti-hero in search of an identity. In addition Destry is focussed on revenge and his main antagonist is his closest friend. The plot is well constructed with well drawn subsidiary characters and provides a number of interesting twists.All in all this is an enjoyable and undemanding work.
Many people who review this book severely do this, undoubtedly, out of a sense of civic servitude.
The book is written in 1930 and contains the vernacular of the century just prior.
The story is solid and engaging, the prose is not poetic but definitely colorful.This book shares only the title with the Jimmy Stewart movie.
There are no plot points that the two share except for Destry being a deputy and in the book that is a very short lived prospect.
I bought this book because I thought it was a novel that the movie was based on.
He gets blamed for a train robbery he didn't commit, and the jury sentences him to prison because they don't like him.
When he gets out of prison, he sets about ruining or killing them...
and if you're thinking this sounds like a western version of "The Count of Monte Cristo," well, I thought so too.
But unlike Edmund Dantes, Harry Destry has one worth opponent who nearly bests him.
Also unlike Edmund Dantes in Monte Cristo, Harry Destry discovers the emptiness of revenge before he loses the woman he loves or the boy who has helped him survive the frightened wrath of those he's hunting.
I always thought most westerns were a bit shallow.
It has some very good prose, some interesting details of western life that I didn't expect and an outcome I thought I had anticipated but didn't.
Two things to watch for, one is his "vulgar" language.
The second thing, along those lines, is his use of misspelled dialect.
All the elements are there: treachery, revenge, heroes, love regained, good guys, bad guys, romance, horse chases, shoot outs, dust, done-'em-wrong.
Nothing new there, and the language is flowery, and I like how he describes the people and the places.
Harry Destry is you typical western ne'er do well..
with a few friends and mounting enemies.
When the express gets robbed outside of town, and his enemies decide to be rid of him by blaming him for it, well, a few months to relax in the slammer sounded just fine...
If one is in the mood for a western, this is a pretty good one of the type, but just don't expect anything else.
The language is rough in comparison to today’s society, but politically correct for the time period it was written.
Language aside, reading this one makes me wish today’s “modern” western writers wrote in this kind of style.
You have your classic lone good guy going up against a bad character, there’s a beautiful girl, several shootouts after the good guy was wronged, and things wind up neatly.
I haven’t read a Max Brand western in over 30 years, and picked this one up for just 99 cents and received a heck of a lot more than that in entertainment value.
If you like traditional, classic westerns, I would recommend this one.
One of the greatest.One of the greatest western authors of all time. Max Brand leads the reader on a very authentic tale of the old west the way it was. Max Brand books as always leaves the reader wanting more.
A clever and at times quite funny story
This is the book that only shares title with the classic Jimmy Stewart Western of the same name.
The story is at is bare bones a story of revenge by a man who was innocent of a crime and he finds ways to kill, chase out of town or arrest the jurors that sent him to jail in legal manners.
The ending is interesting since there is a pretty good twist and helps to explain all that happened to Destry as well as it appears to violate the classic cliche of Western stories.
The story focuses on Harry Destry--even he describes himself as "a waster, a lazy loafer, a fighter." What he comes across to me is a thug, happy to find any excuse to use his fists--and this is our hero.He's framed for a train robbery and sent to prison for six years and returns to the town of Wham a seemingly changed man.
So his fiance, who waited six years for him wants to break the engagement, because, she says, "He's not a man." Man = schoolyard bully.
So, the rest of the book is about the revenge he takes on those who put him into prison.
This is my new favorite Max Brand novel.
Neatly plotted and briskly told, it illustrates Brand’s remarkable gift for storytelling.
It begins with the usual western conventions and then quickly posits a premise that strikes off in one unexpected direction after another.
Maybe most remarkably, it defies convention by presenting an indomitable but flawed hero whose estimation of himself is mightily revised by the end of the novel.His first flaw is a nearly fatal blind spot in his choice of friends.
The second is his unshaken belief in his superiority to all other men.
Very disappointed with this book.
Like Man from Laramie, I read this to compare it to the movie of the same title, starring Jimmy Stewart and Marlene Deitrich.
Unfortunately, the only thing the two have in common is the title.
It's actually the plot of almost every slasher movie out there.
However, I am not that big a fan of western novels (although I love cinematic westerns and historical novels and I ran lots of these type of westerns as a teenager), and this book does nothing to change my reading habits.
Destry Rides Again (1930) is the Max Brand classic and it really is well done of it’s type.
Maltin credits “the story by Max Brand” but there is little left but the title that I can see.
Maybe a little bit in common with a rip snorting gunfighter masquerading as a milquetoast.
Destry gets framed for a train robbery, goes to prison, and returns to the town of Wham (yup, ya heard me right) seeking revenge on the twelve men on his jury.
This has a lot in common, plot-wise, with Dumas” The Count of Monte Cristo.
I read this because Billy Parham was reading it in Cities of the Plain. It was pretty much what I expected - a simple story with very little suspense or drawn-out plot twists, and certainly nothing that isn't easily predictable. Overall, it's not a bad look at what people were reading back in the '30s. If nothing else, Destry does prove to be a slightly less stereotypical character, and I'd love to find the time to trace his kind of character through pulp westerns, but that's likely a long project.
I think this is the first proper Western I've ever read and I loved it.
Granted, it's no literary masterpiece, but I must say it was a blast to turn the pages.This fast-paced story is about a tough rebel named Destry who is sent to prison for years, serving time for a crime he did not commit.
Once out, he aims to seek revenge on the 12 jury members who sent him to prison.
However, his mission isn't to kill but to find other unique ways as punishment and to make their lives miserable.Creative, exciting, and a perfect read for the cabin.
The James Stewart western classic was based on this tale of an outlaw done wrong who comes back seeking vengeance on the jury who wrongly sentenced him. It has been a while since I watched the movie, but the book didn't remind me much of what I remembered from it. That being said, the book was a very enjoyable read.
Very enjoyableI decided to read this after watching 'Destry' with Audie Murphy on TV. I knew this would be very different and it was very good. I don't recall watching the Jimmy Stewart 'Destry Rides Again', but wanted to read the book first.
A simple, fun straight-forward Western with good guy running into trouble but in the end comes out ahead and wins his girl. This one was the start of Jimmy Stewart's career. Thanks, Tina and Harlan for sending it along to me!
One of the best western written without seeking to be. This novel has been made into three different movies which depict a young man becoming marshal without using a gun until he is forced to show his expertise. This is an excellent read for the genre.....DEHD
Destry has spent six years in jail for a robbery he didn't commit. Now, in plotting his revenge, he returns to town to rid himself of those who served on the jury. But death is too good for them. He has other plans. Wonderful and witty.
Pretty good. Fairly standard western, with a dash of a mystery thrown in. Brand did wax a little too poetical about sagebrush a couple of times, and took an entire chapter to talk about a horse, but I don't expect much from my westerns except that they be readable.
Not as good as the movies.
I'm really not into Westerns. I find them dull and pretty boring. But I actually kind of liked this revenge story. Which is actually the best compliment I can give it.
Long winded and slow pace yet an enjoyable adventure.
Superb!
Sometimes I hope the movie follows the book. This time I am glad it doesn't. Only the title remains the same. Now to enjoy the movie. 1939, starring James Stewart and Marlene Dietrich.
read between summer 1970 & summer 1974
OK Western. Not as humorous as the old movie with Jimmy Stewart but still good.
W Bra
This was absolutely nothing like the Jimmy Stewart movie or the Audie Murphy movie. But I did enjoy it: it was a man's man's western novel! It was written for pure escapism.
