https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/10965.A_Breath_of_Snow_and_Ashes
It’s a damn good thing that I didn’t pick the words ‘wry, knuckle, or rubbed’ or I would be in an alcoholic coma or worse, dead.”Jamie looked at me and narrowed his cat eyes “If our lives and the words the lady who writes these books uses bothers ya so much, why do ya keep reading them?” The corner of his mouth twitched in a wry smile and he rubbed his long straight nose with his knuckle......again.“That’s an excellent question Jamie and I don’t have a good answer for you other then that I can’t quit you.....either of you.” *sigh*“Awe Stephanie, that’s so sweet I could cry.
And there are lots of things going on in the books and I love most all of it.
I think my favorite is when Bree is in the shed chasing off a raccoon that is eating their food and Roger comes in - scares her- and she nails him in the head with a potato!
And the part before all of this, when Jamie and Roger find that family killed and the little girl still alive in the burned house, OMG, I can't even.
And now Claire and Jamie only have Ian and it's so freaking sad because that whole family was there and I want them back.
The paperback edition of what is the sixth book in the Outlander series is over 1500 pages long and sorry to say, I did not hang on every word.
I love Jamie and Claire (not so much Roger and Brianna) and have been hooked since Outlander, but the series is floundering, and has been for some time.
But I sacrificed, I persevered, and I wanted to LOVE this book, I really did.
Remember, 1500 pages is a huge chunk of prose which translates into a huge investment of your precious reading time.
5 STARS!!!!!!!!! JESUS H. ROOSEVELT CHRIST!!!!!![image error] What can I say that hasn't already been said about Diana Gabaldon and her fabulous Outlander books!!! This is yet another. Claire and Jamie's story continues here in the wilderness and growing new world of North Carolina. So many mysteries brought to the foreground in this episode, and many more laid out. [image error] Jamie FraserThe American revolution is in full swing, and Jamie finds himself caught between a loyalty to his king a
What can I say that hasn't already been said about Diana Gabaldon and her fabulous Outlander books!!!
Claire and Jamie's story continues here in the wilderness and growing new world of North Carolina.
OMG Claire has so many life altering events to overcome in this book.
Roger MackenzieOne of the things I love most about these books is the real-life dramas that continue to plague the characters.
I have nothing but the highest of praise and thanks for you in creating these fabulous characters and epic, EPIC stories!!!!The Infamous White Sow!!!Nothing less than 5 STARSnow on to book 6...
Which probably happened quite a bit in pre-revolutionary America.And then Jamie turns up and rescues everyone, and takes Claire to bed.
Considering she's about 55 by now she's doing pretty darn well; they don't seem to go much longer than 3 days without a good bonk, Jamie never has eyes for anyone else, and he likes it when she puts on a bit of weight because it goes straight to her lovely round arse.
The perfect man indeed.After hundreds of hours of listening, Gabaldon's writing is pretty predictable.
One day I'll probably go back to the beginning again...
Still hardly any plot, just people doing things, a few kidnappings, rapes and childbirths, a million of scenes of Clare healing someone. But at least Brianna wasn't lactating all book long this time.
Loved him.Vroom, vroom!I won’t say too much as it would give things away and spoil the reading for others.
Or spoil the TV show if some of you will not read the books.“I chose my way when I wed ye, though I kent it not at the time.
But I chose, and cannot now turn back, even if I would.''Would you?' I looked into his eyes as I asked, and read the answer there.
For you have chosen, as much as I.” The books is so much more than my review.
I must applaud Lizzie for her "way" of ensuring that she got what she wanted.
I would have though that twenty years apart would warrant some kind of second honeymoon?I never thought I’d say this, but I actually like Bree and Roger more and more.
But going from reading about Jamie and Claire to Brianna and Roger gave a certain nice..
As usual.I’ve read the series multiple times and they are all amazing books.
I’m surprising myself but I’ve come to like all characters and every small detail of the 18th century’s America, although I do further miss my beloved Scotland.
And to be honest, I would only like to read about Claire and Jamie if I got one wish.
The fifth book made me wish for all that time spent listening back again because really, however many pages an author should devote to homesteading, Ms. Gabaldon surpassed it at least ten-fold.
I was sucked into the Outlander world, and I can’t seem to get out.In the beginning of the series, the sex scenes were so unusual in a romance novel because they were actually vital to the story.
While Jamie is clearly an ass man given his many lascivious (and slightly disturbing) comments about the state of Clare’s derrière, I’m beginning to think Ms. Gabaldon is a breast woman herself.
**4.5 stars**This book, this series, is a total love fest.
You would have to love it to come this far in the series...and be dedicated to reading these long books.
I'm always apprehensive to start one but when I do, I'm totally swept away and then I'm sooo sad when I'm finished!As with all books in this series, DG packs an enormous amount of "happenings" into them and I actually had to take notes.
Loved Claire and Jamie and Roger and Brianna!
Because I believed you loved me the same way.”♥ “I canna look at ye asleep without wanting to wake ye, Sassenach.” His hand cupped my breast, gently now.
I’d rather read about Lizzie accidentally getting knocked up by the Beardsley twins and then marrying both of them, that tiny little bigamist, than read about ghost bears, Brianna's engorged breasts, and the state of Jemmy’s diapers.But really, I think the main problem here is that Gabaldon was trying to bridge the years in between Brianna finding her family and marrying Roger at the end of Drums of Autumn, and the coming American Revolution, and it took her two books to do it when she should have done it in one.
“We’re here because I loved you, more than the life that was mine. Because I believed you loved me the same way.” DG played with my emotions masterfully. I loved it and I hated it. I laughed and I cried. It was perfection!To read my reviews of previous books, click on pic: . . . .
I can gladly say that I actually enjoyed this one.A Breath of Snow and Ashes still has your favorite couple, Jamie and Claire.
Now I know I've had my fair share of ups and downs with these books and this couple but once they got to North Carolina - I was in.
Reading about how Jamie and Claire were apart of that was pretty interesting.
I do love the romance and chemistry between Jamie and Claire more though - sorry, not sorry.Now I'm not going to name every character in this book because we meet a lot.
This review can also be found at Carole's Random Life in Books.I almost feel like Claire and Jamie are family.
It is really just all of the things that happen during this period in Jamie, Claire, Brianna, and Roger's lives.
You do need to read this series in order because things from previous books do tend to pop up from time to time.So much happens in this book.
Like I said, Jamie and Claire feel almost like family so when bad things happen to them, I really tend to feel it.
I think that this just may be my favourite book out if the series so far with the exception of book one.
Something about it just drew me in and sunk it’s hooks into me and I found myself falling in love with these characters all over again.
Because that’s really what this series is about, the characters.
Sure the setting and the history is great but what really packs the punch is the characters and how much you become attached to them and to care for them.
This book really reinforced for me, it renewed my love for these characters and I couldn’t have enjoyed it more!
This book is only for people who enjoy the characters and the America they inhabit.
Secrets are discovered and shared, there's sex scenes and a rape scene as another Fraser family member takes their improbable turn again as victim (what are the chances that three members of a family would be raped, one twice?)Finally,a decision is made that splits the family...The author appears to fully expect to continue the series but after reading of Jamie and Claire at advanced age I had to go and skim the first book to reminsce and pity the characters for losing so much of their youth together to vicious circumstance.
4.5/5 💝💞Llega un punto, tras leer seis libros, donde cualquier cosa que digas sobre una saga se convierte en Spoiler. Solo dire que es una de las sagas mas adictivas y maravillosas que he leido nunca.P.D: Necesito dias con mas horas... 😤😁 ... no llego.. no llego.
[Lu / Écouté en livre audio selon les moments]Quel bonheur de profiter de mes vacances pour replonger pendant des heures chaque jour dans un tome d’Outlander !
Il s’agit d’un opus au rythme inégal, comme souvent avec Gabaldon, et si j’ai trouvé le coeur du roman assez creux, le début est puissant et le dernier tiers, oh la la, juste génial !
Il a ravivé mon enthousiasme pour la saga après un 5e tome très "quotidien" - ici les aventures ne manquent pas, et mon coeur s’est serré au vu des difficiles décisions qu’affrontent les personnages...
This book is like that but add in finding a needle in a haystack, cutting gum from your hair, trying to remove blood stains from every item of clothing you wear every day for 6 months, participating in a spelling bee in a language you don't speak, and running for president in a country on another planet.
There is a lot going on here.
SO MUCH GOING ON HERE.
I've sort of learned to love Roger more, but , yeah, no, really not so much.
I've certainly loved Brianna more.
I love the both of you to the ends of your crazy hairs.
I LOVE YOU MALVA!
Breath of Snow and Ashes - ExGabaldon, Diana - 6th in seriesThe year is 1772, and on the eve of the American Revolution, the long fuse of rebellion has already been lit.
Men lie dead in the streets of Boston, and in the backwoods of North Carolina, isolated cabins burn in the forest.With chaos brewing, the governor calls upon Jamie Fraser to unite the backcountry and safeguard the colony for King and Crown.
But from his wife Jamie knows that three years hence the shot heard round the world will be fired, and the result will be independence — with those loyal to the King either dead or in exile.
So I slogged through all 6000 some-odd pages of this and I truly hate myself because I actually want to read the next one when (if?) it comes out.
I think the next story she set up is more interesting.I guess I understand the appeal of these books.
She tells a "ripping yarn" even though it takes her waaaaaaaaaaay too long to get there.
She has interesting details (albeit far too many of them.) Far from great writing, but it's a good page turner and I must say I had fun laughing at the supposedly erotic passages, and her obsession with people's asses.
The mind boggles at just how much history Gabaldon has written into this novel. While the Outlander series may seem to some as an over-written tome for Jamie Fraser hysterics, the dearth of American history enfolded is quite amazing. I have much admiration for the author. A hearty 4.5★
j ai adoré ce volume... et je suis tellement triste de le finir. j ai essayé de le distiller le plus longtemps possible ^^ j ai hate que le 7 sorte !!! il faut attendre le mois de mai :D
To quote a dear friend of mine, Diana is back on track with this one!The 6th in the Outlander series started off a bit slow for me, but I was able to get sucked in once again. There is lots of romance and lots of drama on Fraser's Ridge as Jamie, Claire, family, and friends prepare themselves for the upcoming Revolutionary War.And damn Diana for making me like Brianna after me being so annoyed with her in Fiery Cross. I am impressed when writers can turn your opinion around regarding characters.
I managed to ruin this book for myself so, while this review itself may not help, I hope it will assist in making sure no one else makes the same mistake I did: I absolutely LOVED "Outlander" (the first book in this series) ...
I was so excited to have read the book that I looked around to see if there was a second book.
I then read "A Breath of Snow and Ashes".
Read them in this order (but check me because as you can see, I already messed up once): 1.
Wow....what a book!
After really loving the series through #3, the 4th and 5th books were somewhat disappointing for me.
Both of them were way too long and I actually was bored in parts.
The story left Scotland and Europe and came to the American colonies.
The story started out ok but then got monotonous for me.
I also didn't like what happened to some of the characters and felt some of them had very little parts to play.
In this book however, I felt many questions were answered, characters were back and so was the action.
I'm happy to report that this book was much better than the previous one - scandals occurred! murders! pregnancies! a new time traveler! a revolution! and barely any lactation scenes! Still, in a book that's nearly 1,450 pages, there was just too much detail. I could have lived without knowing every one of Claire's medical treatments or several dozen descriptions of people's hair, but hey, that's just me.
Did she tell ye how it happened?" -Jamie Fraser"Yes. I'll tell you the gory details later." -Claire FraserThat little snippet of dialogue pretty much sums up this entire book.
It. If you are iffy about continuing on with the series after the slow pace of Drums of Autumn and The Fiery Cross, just do what I did...chalk up The Fiery Cross to this: (view spoiler)[Claire and Jamie obviously were on a downcycle, Brianna couldn't think about anything without letting down her milk, and well, if I were almost hanged, I'd probably be in a pissy mood like Roger was too.
Finally finished the sixth book in the Outlander series.
It took me over a year to read not because it wasn't an enjoyable read, it was, but in typical Gabaldon style it was a saga of a book.
Which I did for a while until I got close to the end and then realised I just had to finish it.
Now I'm feeling a little forlorn that I won't have this to keep me company but thankfully there are two more in the series to read and so I have book 7 waiting for me.
Those who read them know and those who don't....well in my opinion you are missing out.
" Give anything enough time, and everything is taken care of: all pain encompassed, all hardships erased, all loss subsumed.Ashes to ashes, dust to dust. Remember, man, that thou art dust; and unto dust thou shall return.And If Time is anything akin to God, I suppose that Memory must be the Devil" More than ever, that remote clipping from a newspaper still feels like a guillotine looming over their heads...it's the curse of having a bunch of time-travelers in the family, not only for that but k
Even more because of that she goes through some despicable things that I kept wishing it wouldn't happened, and hoping a certain someone would get to her in time.But one thing we know for certain, together this 2 can go through EVERYTHING...they are strong individuals but together they are a force to reckon with.
I love how they understand each other and how they can't even imagine a world without the other.I said it several times but Claire and Jaime are just amazing...I LOVE THEM TO PIECES!
