https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/28815474-the-couple-next-door
It’s a captivating story, I’ll admit.
So the story isn’t bad per se.
The character would never have done such a thing.
What do I know?I also couldn’t because the writing is horribly amateurish.
Seriously, maybe middle grade mystery books would fit this author better.
Because the writing isn’t enjoyable, the narration, in consequence, isn’t either.
Sure, I wanted the baby found and brought back but, at some point, as the story becomes more and more convoluted, the focus sharpens on who is the kidnapper instead of where the baby girl is.
What a stupid ending.
We all know what’s going to happen now.
I started laughing - - (to myself of course --my husband was sleeping)...when the character, Anne, had a 'cleaning episode' moment.
She starts in the front entryway, cleaning the antique grate that covers the air duct.
That excerpt was simply a fun 'comic' release!!!I've been guilty of the 'cleaning-crime' on occasion.
Or maybe the father arranged the Kidnapping for ransom since his business was in serious trouble?
Or maybe the couple next door - with their messy entanglement to the parents of the missing baby are the kidnappers?
Or maybe the the entire neighborhood is guilty?
3.5 starsA swanky rich couple have a six month old baby. The babysitter cancels at the last minute, buuuutt the husband really wants to go to that dinner party next door with the hottie neighbor. He convinces the wife Anne that it will be just fine to leave the baby by herself and check on her every thirty minutes. They return home to find the baby is now missing.  Then all the secrets...gotta have secrets. Mom is struggling with post-partum depression. Could she have done something to the baby
The babysitter cancels at the last minute, buuuutt the husband really wants to go to that dinner party next door with the hottie neighbor.
He convinces the wife Anne that it will be just fine to leave the baby by herself and check on her every thirty minutes.
They return home to find the baby is now missing.
Could she have done something to the baby and this is just an elaborate cover-up?
It's one that you want to read it one sitting even though you know there is no way the ending can do it justice.
THE COUPLE NEXT DOOR is an outstanding debut psychological thriller novel from author Shari Lapena, and one of the best reads I have read this year!
“They left their six-month-old baby (Cora) home alone and went to a party next door.” But with the monitor on next door…they would hear everything!Anne and husband Marco Contis are asked to their next door neighbors, Cynthia and husband Graham Stillwell for a dinner party, to celebrate Graham’s birthday.
Then at 1:00A.M.when Anne and Marco left the party, they find the front door partly open…but she had locked it!
Ending chapters with shocking revelations, casting doubt and making me waver on my belief of who was behind it all, time and time again, was pure magic.
I read this book over the course of one day, simply because I couldn’t bear to put it down.
I had to know who took baby Cora and WHY.With that being said, this is a case of a highly readable story being tainted by the ridiculousness of it all.
And the ending .
And the ending .
I’m just gonna say it was crazy and leave it at that.Is this the best book I’ve ever read?
I was pretty into it and it was very unlikely that I was going to fall asleep.Anne and Marco Conti are new parents to a six-month-old baby girl named Cora.
Anne Conti would prefer not to go, especially since the neighbors, Cynthia and Graham Stillwell don't want children at the party.
Marco really wants her to come, he thinks it would be good for her to go."It will be good for you to get out, you know what the doctor said"Eventually Anne agrees to go, but only if they take the baby monitor and check on Cora every half hour.
Anne and Marco have a dinner party to attend next door when the babysitter cancels at the last moment.
Of course, being responsible parents, they have no choice but to cancel dinner.
They make the unbelievably foolish decision to still attend.
What!!?😳As you may have guessed, that superb and well thought -out plan goes terribly south!This was an engaging read that I finished very quickly (just a couple sittings).
Maybe a beach or airport read!
Then again, I’m pretty late to the party on this one, I may be the last one out there to read this book!
It's a shame that it got a bit too convoluted towards the end, but I'll still look forward to her next thriller.I'll come back to finish off this review with audiobook notes later, but floating it for GoodReads Choice Awards since I don't think I ever published this to the feed.
It's still among the better of the thrillers published this year--I'm side-eyeing some of those other picks.
But what else is new, hah.An audiobook review copy was provided by the publisher.
3.5 Stars. This book turned out just meh for me. I was completely sucked in from the start and then at about the 65 % mark the characters started annoying me and I wasn't thrilled with the ending. Some other people might like this more than I did. I read a lot of psychological thrillers so now very few are 5 Star reads for me.A special shout out to Kirsten Potter the narrator. She was awesome!!! This is very easy to follow on audio.
Cynthia and Graham invite next door neighbours Anne and Marco to a small dinner party but tell them not to bring their small baby.
Which scares the hell out of me because then maybe he'll kill Cora and dump her somewhere!” This from a husband in an attempt to make his wife feel better!Our intelligent-eyed detective goes next door to speak to Cynthia and Graham.
This whole book is full of this sort of rubbish.The characters are caricatures: the depressed handwringing wife-from-old-money; the supportive but uncomfortable husband who is never good enough; the neighbours next door who could be Up To No Good.

I guessed the ending so many times, should not have bothered, it was brilliant and had so many twists I was feeling motion sickness!Honestly, check out the blurb:You never know what's happening on the other side of the wall.Your neighbour told you that she didn't want your six-month-old daughter at the dinner party.
But now they're in your home, and who knows what they'll find there.What would you be capable of, when pushed past your limit?You pop next door to a party, then after checking numerous times your baby is gone.
One star is for me because I finished it.
One more star because the author came up with some good character names.
Cora Conti, Cynthia Stillwell, Detective Rasbach I'm looking at you.Well, that's about all the nice nice I can make.I can't get past the clunky, amateurish writing!
If you, as an author, are going to write a book that is almost entirely dialogue, wouldn't you make sure you were a damn fine dialogue writer first?
Oh, and zero character development which is kind of crucial to psychological suspense.Q Come to think of it, why did I finish this book?
*Thank you to Netgalley and Random House UK, Transworld Publishing, and also to Shari Lapena for my ARC in exchange for a fair and honest review*Goodness me, this book was so full of twists and turns, I don't know whether I'm on my head or my heels right now!Imagine the horror of discovering your 6 month old baby has been abducted from her crib in the early hours of the morning.
Well, that would be bad enough, but what multiplies that horror here, is the fact that baby Cora's parents - Anne and Marco Conti, had left her alone while they attended a dinner party next door.
First of all, I'm a skeptic by nature.
By going into a thriller, I go in grudgingly knowing I'm going to be critical.
As I'm reading, this is the constant chatter going on in my head recalling Elaine in a Seinfeld episode - "maybe the dingo ate your baby." I'm thinking anything is possible at this point - including the dang Dingo!This is warped.
A baby is missing.
And it's twisted and contorted and what you think is straight forward is backwards.And perhaps, just maybe, the dingo is guilty.
Or heck, maybe I am.
A fun read nonetheless.
As a debut, this was brilliant work and I commend the author for writing a book that most of us just could not put down.I felt it was a train wreck of completely messy, unscrupulous and totally moral lacking characters!
I know we are not meant to always love the characters we read about, but I was eye rolling many times.
The only thing I didn't love was the storyline, it felt contrived and a little clichéd in a way.
2.75I never read drama like this before Was almost to be worst book of 2017
As expected I thoroughly enjoyed it, I raced through the intriguing pages and I have to say that it is neck and neck as to which I preferred the best, as both were hugely entertaining.It does takes a while to get used to the authors writing since she uses 'third person present tense' but once you adapt to it you soon fly through the story, it was very easy to follow and with regular twists and turns to keep you occupied this is a definite page turner that will keep you reading well past when you should be!Anne and Marco Conti attend a dinner party at their next door neighbours - Cynthia and Graham's house, leaving their six month old baby Cora at home, after their regular babysitter called to cancel.
Lots of twists and turns and untrustworthy characters, right up until the last 20 pages, which blew it for me.Anne and Marco have a beautiful baby girl named Cora.
I was shocked numerous times - this book was going to be a solid 4 star read.Then the ending happened.
(view spoiler)[ Anne goes next door and murders Cynthia.
Anne has her baby back - what was the point?
On top of that, this ending is so abrupt we don't see what happened after - did Anne go to prison for murder?
Also (view spoiler)[ it felt kind of out of no where when we found out Marco was the one who had his daughter kidnapped even though the police had been bouncing the idea around already until we got to that point it just felt that through Marco's POV passages that he knew nothing, it didn't feel like it was hinted at or built upon  (hide spoiler)].
Anne unraveling to the point of murdering at the end just got on my nerves because it felt unnecessary and it's just a pet peeve when people's mental breakdowns or history of mental illness leads them to homicide and/or violence  (hide spoiler)].
A hypnotic and atmospheric thriller.This story starts off with a familiar- ripped from the headlines- setup where a couple, Ann and Marco, decide to leave their young daughter home alone while they attend a dinner party next door.
After reading the first chapter of this book, I heaved a heavy sigh, trying to stifle an eyeroll.
Now, I see a whole new, fresh crop of debut novelist, giving the genre a little facelift, which is a very welcome change.
So, at the end of the day, it all boils down to how engaged or entertained I was and I have to say, I thought this was a pretty solid thriller and I enjoyed reading it.
What you think that you see with your own eyes is not necessarily what you see.
Anne and Marco Conti must really have an intense thing for dinner parties.
Marco talks Anne into leaving their newborn infant next door with a faulty baby monitor.
Sounds like a great plan, huh?Our model parents have also taken to tipping back on the wine goblets, too.
Not a sober soul in sight.
The parents are in shock and call the police.
I kept turning pages thinking that it's got to turn the corner about now.
Kinda left me standing on a dark street with no taxi in sight.
really?Just how do you know the good people from the bad?I was hooked, yes hooked from one page to the other, needing to put this book down but just couldn't.
I am aware l sound like I am gushing and people do comment sometimes, but an avid reader will know when they enjoyed a good book they just have to get out their foghorn and shout it out the world.I can't wait for a chance to read another book from this author.My thanks to Random House UK, Transworld Publishers via Net Galley for my copy
So there's a couple named Marco and Anne Conti who have a baby called Cora.
They are deprived of outgoing social activities, and when the neighborly couple are inviting the Conti couple to a party, it's hard to resist.There are some twists involved in the plotting of this book one or two of which are ponderous.
That means the baby is going to be alone.
So the young couple go to the party.I gave the book 4 stars because the story is easygoing and there are rarely a dull chapter.
Having said that, I got thrills that were easily my money's worth.
It was worth reading.
Pues oye, lo he disfrutado un montón.No soy mucho de leer novelas de este género, pero he de decir que cada vez estoy leyendo más y estoy encontrando una vertiente más que interesante que de primeras no era mi favorita.
La verdad es que yo estoy acostumbrado a leer novelas en presente, aunque en esta ocasión había alguna cosa rara (como si el narrador supiera absolutamente todo, pero a la vez nada, y estando en presente era extraño).La pareja de al lado es una novela hecha para devorar.
Los personajes inestables siempre son un punto fuerte en este tipo de novelas, pero también lo son los que caminan por seguro.
Just imagine,  your 6 month old baby is sleeping upstairs, the babysitter has cancelled at the last minute and the dinner party you have been invited to attend is literally just next door, one shared wall away.
I know people that live within arms reach that have infants that have been left sleeping upstairs while they, with monitor in hand, attend  a get together in their next door neighbour’s backyard.
Anne and Marco Conti have gone next door to attend a dinner party, leaving their six month old daughter asleep upstairs.
I've read this book before.Well, ok, not this book, but I've read many of its fraternal twins, and the gene pool is starting to feel a bit shallow to me.The Couple Next Door has an interesting hook: a six month old baby disappears from her crib while her parents are next door at a dinner party.
It reminded me of the Madeline McCann case, and I was interested to see how the plot would develop.
However, reading this book was at times like playing thriller bingo.
Marco is a uniquely unsympathetic character, and I was so disappointed at the author's decision to portray him as a victim.
Find all of my reviews at: http://52bookminimum.blogspot.com/I read this book because everyone was reading it. We’re talking EV.ER.Y.ONE. Think I’m kidding?  Yep. I’m still 30th in line at the non-porny library (and yes I just removed this request – I’m an old lady and forget these things sometimes). Since this is a mystery you’re going to get an even crappier review than I normally barf out. The basic premise of The Couple Next Door is that Marco and Anne’s babysitter cancelled at the last minu
Save your breath if you feel the need to tell me how horrible I am for judging this couple because #1 I know I’m horrible, #2 it’s a book so calm yo tits, and #3 I would still judge these a-holes the same if it was real life and I give zero shits.So anywho, Anne and Marco return home around 1:30 a.m. to find their door partially open and zero baby in the house.
Obviously I’m not an expert, but I am a geezer and every time a baby kidnapping story has been on the news for the past 412 years it’s been some crazy bitch who stole it in order to raise as her own who was the culprit.
B. I'd rather eat a loaf of white bread than read more.C. Someone made money with this caliber of writing, and yet my 630-page manuscript about holographic forest animals remains unpublished?!If you answered A, then The Couple Next Door is the book for you!
With all the intricate detail of a cinder block and sophisticated syntax of a sedated toddler, this book will leave you thinking, "I just read some sentences!" If you answered B, then you're in my boat, and you likely won't find this book worthwhile.
Perfect."Marco gets into the Audi and drives.

