https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1301173.The_Ninth_Configuration
"You're convinced that God is dead because there's evil in the world - then why don't you think He's alive because of the goodness in the world?"Set in a secluded castle that is now being used by the US government as a military asylum, The Ninth Configuration tells of a facility that houses 27 officers who have recently suffered from a mental break.
However, even with the strong philosophical themes, there's still a good, strong story here, with twists and turns I wasn't expecting.I'm not sure I ever would have read this if it wasn't suggested to me by my buddy Cam (who I also buddy-read this with), so this is another scenario where I'm thankful to bookstagram for opening me up to books I might have otherwise missed!
This baby is quite peculiar.THE NINTH CONFIGURATION is somewhat of a comedy, but William Peter Blatty shrewdly uses the comic effect as a distraction from the real nature of his novel, which you have to find your way to.
The rest is a lot of fun, but it's part of the maze you have to navigate.Perhaps my only knock on this book is that it could've taken itself more seriously and crafted a greater context for its characters, but it's kind of great the way it is, to be honest.
THE NINTH CONFIGURATION is far from being overthought and it's part of its charm.
Twinkle Twinkle Killer Kane, later re-titled The Ninth Configuration tells the headache inducing story of a military psychologist who is sent to a military nut house to deal with some military psychos who were supposed to go into space, but suddenly became crazy.This is a tough book to rate because it is riddled with good and bad.
There is little action to move along the story and the narrator depends 100% on the conversations between characters to explain anything except visual details.Overall, it is a subpar story with some pleasant surprises written by a superb author that utilized an annoying narrator in a book that I can only describe as mediocre.
Una novela muy al estilo el exorcista, donde existe una confrontación, la cual no puede ser solucionada simplemente por psicólogos o doctores.Antes de iniciar la lectura, pensé que se trataría de una novela de terror, ya que la sinopsis del libro le da tintes bastante lúgubres, pero estaba equivocado.En principio la lectura me resultó bastante entretenida e incluso divertida.
For some time, I don’t feel like reading again.
Now it’s happened again with the Ninth Configuration.Readers who seek popcorn are bound to be disappointed.
For such readers the action probably comes too late, and at too much cost to their time.But here is the genius of the writing.
On that point, I have rated other books five stars that wouldn’t hold a candle to this book.
If you read this book as a psychological thriller, one aimed squarely at intelligent adult readers, then it deserves five stars.
Ou alguma força sobrenatural??Todos os diálogos dos internos são tão bem construídos e a forma como o "novo" psiquiatra lida com eles é tão compreensiva e nos começamos a nos perguntar o que está acontecendo pq o autor nos faz dar voltas e voltas até que BOOMM você ter uma noção que algo realmente está errado.
O autor constrói uma introdução que nos deixa de boca aberta com o quanto o ser humano pode ser maquiavélico e sorrateiro.Confesso que fiquei bem triste principalmente com o Kane que tinha uma condição complicada e talvez o que aconteceu fosse a única saída para ele que decorreu na libertação de todos-Cutshaw(seu louco/fingidor).
A minha única pergunta é sim ele se lembrou ou não do irmão.
4.5 stars. Although sometimes the craziness just seemed too much to follow, stay with it. The themes explored in this book are overwhelming-it gives you so much to think about in so many ways. He took several concepts and examined them from all angles-things we all think and wonder about. I keep thinking about this book long after I put it down.
If you are looking for a Blatty novel that rivals Exorcist or Legion, sorry folks, but you will have to keep looking.
If you want a quick but engaging read with some odd twists and a thought provoking ending, well this is your book.
It's almost as if Blatty used this book as a testing ground for the ideas he would later explore in his best work.
La novena configuración es un libro con demasiados matices; veamos, la historia y la trama son una genialidad así como los personajes, pero llega un punto en que el autor no sabe como desarrollarlos, cae en confusiones y sinsentidos. Los personajes son bastante interesantes pero no los explota de manera adecuada.Profundiza en aspectos donde no era necesario y deja cabos sueltos en los más importantes. En la parte final del libro cambia la trama y muestra un desenlace bastante forzado que daba para mucho más. No me deja mal sabor de boca pero si con ganas de más.
My second reading of the author.
His first book is something I still adore,so I had high expectations of this book.
And it wasn't out of place.
This book presents an interesting journey into the human mind,and so at places we get much confused.
At times,I even felt irritated.
But patience always present good results.
And it did in this case too.
The second twist was something that came out of blue.
As a story,this looks better to me than 'the exorcist',but it's really difficult to outscore it in the hold it has over the reader's mind.
I'm not sure that I have the words to describe this book.
It starts a bit confusing at first...but by the time you reach the end of the story, the confusion works itself out.
The theme of the story is what kept me interested...Where is God?
My favorite book of all time is The Exorcist and over the years I've been trying to accumulate and read all of Blatty's work and this story was an interesting surprise.
It is definitely worth a read...A bit confusing at first...but if you stick with it I think it will be worth it and it's a really quick read.
I read this in the Fifth Grade -- obviously my parents didn't censor. It was my favorite book and has stayed with me all of these years. I'm afraid to re-read it as an adult. What if the magic is gone?
2.75 stars. Not at all like what I imagined - I would hardly call it a horror story. I liked the premise, but thought it could have been fleshed out a lot more.
Kane, however, doesn't much act like a psychologist and Cutshaw, the astronaut, doesn't appear to be entirely batty.
But all the obsessions that led Blatty to write The Exorcist are present in TTKK -- from the simple love of movies to the coexistence of evil and a benevolent God; everything, in fact, including a discussion of possession and exorcism.
Readers of The Exorcist will note that Blatty even uses an astronaut in both.The religious and philosophical discussions of Kane and Cutshaw are the meat of the book (and if that juxtaposition, of absurd comedy and religious exploration, seems odd, you're right, it is), but there's too little of it to make a decent meal.
I’m so glad I did; this is an excellent read, and it is one you don’t have to be a horror fan to enjoy.
The way Peter Blatty writes is a bit different from traditional authors, but it drew me in and captivated me through the whole book.
This is one of those books that prompts discussion for many years after it is read.THE NINTH CONFIGURATION is a fantastic book, and I highly recommend it to readers looking for something different.
You don’t have to be a horror fan to enjoy this one, so make a note to give it a look.
He delivers a well-written and devastating story with such vividly memorable characters, focusing on mental illness wrapped around religious discourse and anti-war sentiments with perhaps even a touch of allegory sprinkled in for good measure.
Blatty avoids didacticism and lets the contradictory philosophical debates battle each other out within the context of the story and the conflicted characters; namely, Cutshaw and Colonel Kane.
Blatty has a natural ear for dialogue and much of the novel consists of conversations between the characters but it never comes across as contrived or ostentatious; that is, it does aid in driving the story forward but contains its own unique rhythms and intricacies to flesh out the characters that never feels forced.
An interesting read for a millenial like myself.
This thing was written in 1966.Kane is a psychiatrist trying to figure out which men under his care are really "crazy" or pretending to stay out of combat.
Through the story Kane ends up becoming more self reflective and you realize he has plenty of demons he is wrestling with on his own.
My praise and interest comes more from the historical moment it was written in more than the book itself.
I wanted to know the characters more, but I still enjoyed what could have been from this book.If 60's pulp lit is your thing give this thing a whirl.
It's a story that isn't easy to describe.
It has a long-lived cult following for a couple of reasons.
He isn't afraid to question faith in hopes of strengthening his belief.
It will make no sense to the mainstream reader who demands that a story be neat, clean, and easy to follow.
Scenes move from intelligent to insane within a single paragraph, frustrating -- even angering -- the reader.
Lastly, the story does not resolve in the end, rather, it will likely leave most readers thinking about it for days after they have finished the last sentence.
Catch-22 mashed up with One Flew Over The Cuckoo's Nest with some theology thrown in. Fascinating read. Was not familiar with WPB's works before he wrote The Exorcist. Will be seeking out more of his earlier works after reading this book.
The Ninth Configuration was pretty good. I remember having the VHS of the film version back in the day. The book is short and with awesome dialogue from the dude that wrote the Exorcist. But this isn't horror.
I can't believe how impressed and entertained I was with this book. And I never even heard of it until a few weeks ago and it's been or for almost 40 years! I had no idea where I was going to end up, which made the ending even better!
Deliciously twisted romp in the Cuckoo's Nest!
Achingly beautiful.

In an old castle in Washington, a counselor tries to help a group of possibly malingering, possibly actually mentally unstable soldiers.
Very short, poignant book doing what Blatty does best: explore the meaning of faith in such a horror-filled world.
Very, VERY loosely tied in to The Exorcist (though never mentioned), this is kind of a cross between Catch-22 and One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest.
The Exorcist & Legion were two books that scared me - a VERY rare feat with me.
Ninth Configuration didn't scare me, but I did shed a tear.
According to the author this book was an attempt to fix a bad book based on a good idea that he wrote when he was young. That bad book was Twinkle, Twinkle "Killer" Kane. I was a teenager when I read the original many years, ago and I don't know if it would hold up now, but I enjoyed it then. It may have been unformed, unfinished and lacking a plot (so the author now claims), but it was funny. This book is not funny. It is excessively melodramatic, and doesn't hang together. The author should have just moved on.
This book is a horrible mess.
It can barely be considered a novel, it's so disjointed and undeveloped.
The recounting of the many different ways in which the inmates are either mad or pretending to be mad is just annoying after the twelfth or thirteenth rendition, then something something does God exist?
Then a bar fight.
Then the end.
This really should not merit publication in its present form, and that's even after Blatty revised and rewrote it!You can see the embryonic themes that inform his later work, but the product is such a mish-mash that it fails to entertain or educate.
This is a very deep look at both sanity vs.
insanity and how those who are insane are treated.
It is also a deep look at God and how he interacts with his creation.
I loved Psychology 101 in college, but found that the farther down the rabbit hole of the human mind I traveled, the more I began to question my own sanity.
I didn't take Psychology 102.
The questions about God and his existence are common to man and I remember as a young teenager struggling with the same questions posed in the book.
A wonderful read with a very poignant conclusion.
This book was a huge disappointment to me.After reading a couple of his other books I couldn't wait to settle in with this novel.I was uninterested right from the first chapter but I stuck with it as it is pretty short.I found myself having to go back and reread paragraphs due to the fact that I really didn't care about what was going on or the characters.Unfortunately not a book for me.Maybe one day I'll revisit, not likely but maybe.
Blatty is a terrific writer, and he excels with dialogue. There is some thought-provoking, believable and sometimes hilarious dialogue in here. I think it might be a tad bit hamfisted and some might even say it's preachy, but it was an interesting read.
