https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/73449.Great_Tales_and_Poems
I feel like this probably goes without saying--as with any collection, I definitely preferred some stories and poems over others.
And really, I've come to find out that I prefer Poe's prose over his poetry.
That's not to say that his poetry is bad.
I just think poetry is so much more personal, so not all of his poems resonated with me.
Not to mention, Poe is more versatile with his different story types, and they are simply just more entertaining.
All in all, this is a very conclusive collection of Poe's writing & an excellent addition to any fan's shelf.
He does an incredible job in creating an unique atmosphere, which, coupled with Alan Parsons' "Tales of Mystery and Imagination" really makes for a peculiar and interesting reading.The poems I've read so far have an unexpected bright side to them.
The darkness of the fairytales only makes them more interesting because you don't know what to expect from the ending, for it is hardly the "happily ever after" cliche.I will not point out the amazing atmosphere for each tale individually because it's a distinct feature of all the works I've read so far.As always, Bulgarian editions of "Selected works" bravely select anything but the most famous and known works.
From the guilt and madness in "The Tell-Tale Heart", to the grim, macabre claustrophobia of "The Cas
1) Short Stories - They were ok, I just don't think they were for me, the first few I found interesting, but after that I got bored.
I think this might be because these are not supposed to be read back to back, and I think if I hadn't read them back to back I would've enjoyed them more.
2) Poems - They were interesting, a quick read, I am happy I didn't need to read and (over)analyse them.
I enjoyed most of them, they were well written, again I think maybe they were not supposed to be read as quickly as I read them.
Reading this book was harder than I thought it was going to be.
And it is NOT a big book at all.
The thing is that I had long periods of time where I could not pick it up...it was just frustrating.
Poe, you are frustrating!
But frustrating nonetheless.
When I tried to binge read it, it became too much.
Matter of fact it took me almost three weeks to read it, all due to the fact there were times my eyes glazed over.
Some not so good and those were the ones I had a hard time trying to stay on track with, but I made myself read them nonetheless, because I was bound and determined to finish this book no matter what.
I am so happy I stuck with it and I admire Poe's writing even though there were times I wasn't sure what he meant in his stories.
He is definitely a horror story master!
The Pit and the Pendulum is one of my absolute favourite stories ever. Thats why I bought this book. I wanted more of Poe's words. I love the words he chooses to say something. I first read The Pit and the Pendulum when I was in eighth grade and I remember hating Poe because he used so many words to say something simple and it really frustrated me, but now I think its beautiful. He can turn something mundane into something poetic.I also especially enjoyed Hop-Frog and The Murders in Rue Morgue.
I have a love/hate relationship with Poe. I love his finely crafted prose, his spine tinglingly poetry and his scintillating wit. I hate his overly verbose and bloated paragraphs and slow buildups that take dozens of pages before getting to the meat of the story. Poe, though I adore you, it will likely be a while before our paths once again cross.
His short stories, however, demonstrated successful skills of rising action and suspense, an ability that allowed Poe to bewilder his readers.Among the short stories gathered in this book, the one I found most enticing was The Masque of the Red Death.
Among his poems, The Raven is renowned for reasons well established.Edgar Allen Poe, one of the most haunted writers of his time, continues to entrance his readers with the unique style of writing he was most distinguished for.
I would suggest Edgar Allan Poe to anyone looking to become well rounded in classic literature. Poe deals a lot with the morbid angst side of humanity. You can also grasp his love of science and the mystical superstitions while reading his works. He does a very unique portrayal of the human psyche and begs us all to wonder if we ourselves do not harbor some such morbid thoughts as his.
A nice compilation of Poe’s short stories and poems. I’m admittedly unsure how complete this is; I suspect it’s his most popular/well-known. There are quite a few notes for each story and poem. This is helpful due to many unusual references and outdated terms.
Sadly missing from this collection is Valdemar, but it does include the wonderful comedy of Hop-Frog and also Dr. Tarr and Prof. Fether. A very nice portable Poe.
3.5/5I’m not usually a short stories/poems kind of person but I love me some gothic prose
Great little collection of Poe's work!
Poe uses an abstract way of writing that also allows the reader to see the story from the point of view of the criminal.
I feel that this style is used very effectively by Poe in order to explain the thought process of the various criminals in his stories such as The Black Cat and the psychological pressure that they face.
The only other piece of literature besides other Edgar Allen Poe pieces I have read that has been written from the point of view of the criminal is Chasing Lincoln's Killer.
Overall, I think that Edgar Allen Poe's short stories are very well written, unique, and interesting.
If you have ever read any of Poe’s work and have enjoyed it and think you'd like to see more of that type of work, you won't be dissatisfied with this book.
There are other collections of Poe's work, this book contains many of Poe’s short stories and poems it is an alternative to the same great stuff.
All of the characters in Poe’s stories or poems are so different yet the same.
I highly recommend that you read "Great Tales and Poems" by Edgar Allan Poe, once you start to read you most likely won't be able to stop.
The first thirty pages were a struggle to get through due to this issue but that didn’t stop me from getting engulfed in Poe’s weird stories.The only story of Poe’s I had ever read was “The Tell-Tale Heart,” which I read in high-school but didn’t remember until I finished it.
This time, though, I persevered and read all the way through, even though it took me about two months.Overall, I think this was a great introduction to Poe – I loved most of the selection of stories and I found only a few boring or unenjoyable.
I feel that a review of this type ought to include two different ratings: one for the quality of the collection, and one for the actual content.On that first note, I do feel this is an excellent collection of Poe's works.
I do not pretend to know his bibliography extensively, but this volume includes every work that I would have sought.
It need not be said that Poe is one of the most important of the early gothic horror writers, and deservedly so.
Poe's tales are incredibly drawn-out, wrought with detail and exhaustingly verbose.
And we spent a lot of time with family, our parents visiting father's mother and her friends at their home in Park Ridge almost every weekend.Grandmother Lajla, Dad's mom, was fine when one was alone with her, but during those weekend evenings she and her husband--Dad's dad having died when I was five--were "entertaining", so there were lots of old people who had at best only a theoretical interest in kids, lots of drinking, lots of smoking (everyone smoked back then), lots of boring chatter.
Poe was also a master of the ambiguous - many of his works leave readers to draw their own conclusions about what, precisely, happens after the last words on the page.
If you haven't read any Poe, you should definitely check out at least a few of his key stories - The Cask of Amontillado is a favorite, as is The Black Cat (which does not, despite what you will think afterwards, have much gore in it), The Tell-Tale Heart (see my previous parenthetical note), and of course, the classic poem The Raven.
As with almost any collection, I enjoyed some of these stories and poems more than others.
I love most of the well-known ones, including "The Tell-Tale Heart," "The Black Cat," "The Pit and the Pendulum," "The Raven," and "Annabel Lee." I discovered a few new favorites, too, such as "Gold-Bug" and "Dream within a Dream." On the other hand, some of the stories didn't hold my attention ("Ligeia" and "Descent into the Maelstrom," I'm looking at you).
Poe also wrote the first modern detective story, "Murders in the Rue Morgue" (love the ending of that one!) and even science fiction.
I am a big fan of Poe. He is the best author of horror genre alongside with Stephen King of course.
I read only the best 6 stories.
However, Edgar Allan Poe is not the father of detective work, Wilkie Collins IS.
#6 the cask of Amontillado.I will read later The Pit and the Pendulum.The best 3 poems out of 6 that I love are;#1 the Raven #2 A dread within a dream#3 the bells I recommend this book or the storied and poems I mentioned up there for every dark horror fan/readerHE IS THE NATIONAL/UNIVERSAL AUTHOR/POET OF DARKNESS.
I LOVE YOU POE.
Review by Dr. Photo:This book offers a thorough taste of a successful poet's lifework.
Perhaps one of America's most renowned poets and short story writer, Edgar Allen Poe has entertained both young and old for generations.
His reputation as a masterful storyteller is wonderfully represented by this book.This book contains 34 of Edgar Allen Poe's most popular poems.
One of my favorite poems is A Dream Within a Dream.Also included within this book are 21 of the author's short stories.
I enjoyed reading this book for several reasons.
Firstly, because I don't read poetry often, so I enjoyed this unique experience.
Anabell Lee... The Raven, The Black Cat... madness all over, and unexplained situations are the most important part of these stories. It is a must-read, and it somehow reminded me of Mary Shelley.
Much of Poe rates a 5-star.
I read the complete works which included many early poems, a genre that Poe professed to love, and some secondary early works that lack the polish and sophistication of his masterpieces, hence the overall 4-star rating.
I find Poe somewhat of a humorist with his occasional use of absurd character names and his tongue-in-cheek sophisticated language in many of his tales, including those usually associated with horror.I don't know if I would expect readers to plow through the entire 5-book set of complete works as I did, but as a truly American writer, poet and analyst, Poe has set some benchmarks that led to later writers such as Sir Arthur Conan Doyle's Sherlock Holmes stories and other forensic efforts.
This set is well worth exploring for Poe's influence on later writers.
I didn't read the whole book, we were only required to read some of the short stories.
Poe must have fallen off the tallest branch, if you know what I mean.
Some of these shorts are just down right weird.Shorts I did read: The Tell Tale Heart; The Cask of Amontillado; Hop Frog; The Black Cat; The Masque of the Red Death; The Purloined Letter; The Pit and the Pendulum; and The Sphinx.Like I said some were downright weird.
Hop Frog was my favorite character.
Though each of the main characters were deranged in a way.
I visited one of Poe's houses in Philadelphia.
I've decided I don't care much for Poe. I found his "suspense" to be predictable, his morbid tales despicable and his mystery stories a bunch of rambling nonsense. However, his creation of a narrative lunatic is fascinating. In the midst of this collection, I did find favor with the "Pit and the Pendulum." I guess I found it the only minutely suspenseful piece. I also appreciated the rare redemption of the narrator. Of his poems, which I must admit are better than his prose, I enjoyed "The Bells" the most.
I loved Poe in high school and enjoyed getting reacquainted during my library's Big Read 2011.
(I was on the speech team in high school and read The Tell-Tale Heart and The Bells as part of my repertoire.) His stories and poems are downright disturbing and the best of them stick with you a long time.
nervous, very, very dreadfully nervous I had been and am; but why WILL you say that I am mad?") I gave this book Four Stars only because it contains some of his less compelling works as well as his great stories and poems.
A strange and amusing combination of things in my life has resulted in an unfair prejudice against Edgar Allen Poe, and I felt bad for disliking him considering I've barely read anything by the poor guy.
I think my opinion of him sort of maybe improved a little bit.
Reading all of these in one shot probably wasn't the best course of action, because it didn't take me very long to start getting bored.
But, some of them managed to freak me out a little bit and I appreciated the weird vibes, which is good.
My severe dislike for him was probably unwarranted.

