https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/178569.Jane_and_Prudence
Another hilarious and satirical look at Barbara Pym’s world.
It reminds me so much of Wodehouse, dated and quaint yet somehow a world I wish we could all still inhabit.
Where a relationship was broken by a letter, where a meal out with a man caused serious gossip for villagers, where a woman’s unmarried status was a massive problem.
Jane and Prudence, although different ages, consider themselves close friends after being at Oxford University, but affairs, mix ups, arguments, pots of tea and general church business causes a shake up in the quiet village for Jane, her religious husband Nicholas and the numerous hangers on.
This is the first book I've read by Pym and on that basis alone, I will say she is in the tradition of Jane Austen (the main character's Emma Woodhouse comment acknowledges this), Trollope (whom the character Jane is a reader of) and even Gaskell's Cranford.
While reading, I also couldn't help but compare Pym to her contemporary, Muriel Spark.
But what a contrast that is -- while Spark mercilessly spears us with her stiletto, Pym gently skewers us.I loved the character of Jane, what she says and also what she thinks but, by the hardest, stops herself from saying.
And while I'm nothing like Prudence, I recognized myself in her choice of reading materials: "...

Given that her characters are generally overlooked middle-aged people clinging quietly but desperately to a pretense of gentility, one might assume her stories are unhappy.
Jane is the dreamy, highly educated wife of a vicar; her friend Prudence is an equally highly educated younger woman searching for love.
I loved Jane dearly.
She’s forever quoting ancient poetry and not setting up for tea and wearing the wrong kind of dress, and she isn’t unhappy about her lapses from femininity one bit.
She’s just the sort of person who fuels her mind and heart and lets the rest of the world go to blazes through inattention.
Jane and Prudence lead very different lives.
Jane is married to a kindly vicar and her life is concerned with their children and parish.
She is outspoken and often causes problems with her tactless, but good-hearted, interference.Prudence is single, elegant and has a habit of preferring unsatisfactory affairs.
Her office colleagues add amusement to the story as they compete and gossip.Jane and Prudence are old friends from Oxford college and Jane feels she needs to interfere in Prudence's life.
She invites Prudence to visit them at their new vicarage and Jane's matchmaking begins.Pym describes food and clothes with detail and extravagance.
Review included in my fall/winter roundup on my blog: https://shouldacouldawouldabooks.com/...
Disfruto mucho de la narrativa de esta autora. Esta historia me ha parecido más triste que Mujeres Excelentes. Dos amigas con dos opciones de vida opuestas. No hay grandes dramas, solo que quizás esperaban más de la vida y les toca lidiar con cierta insatisfacción.
Sigh... on one hand I didn't want this to end and on the other hand, I couldn't put it down! I am so glad to have met Barbara Pym! I shall be reading more of her books! Gentle, delightful, witty, lovely! Written in the 1950's about life in a British village in the 1950's-- about a friendship between two women-- one a spinster and one married to a clergyman. I may just have to read this book again very soon, for I loved it so! Thank you so much for giving it to me for Christmas, Linda!
These days, a lazy suitor might copy and paste his email to more than one person (I'm sad to say I was once taken in by a very good example, and only found out when we were friends for a while afterwards, and he sent it to someone else quite openly, presumably having forgotten, whilst we sat together at the computer.) Pym has a more old-fashioned example, also disclosed in Jilly Cooper's spoilertastic introduction: (view spoiler)[he gives a book to Prudence, reusing the same inscription and quote that his deceased wife had written in one she gave to him.
20. JANE AND PRUDENCE. (1953). Barbara Pym. ****+. This is another early novel by Ms. Pym that features another “excellent woman” as one of the principal characters – Jane. Jane is married to a clergyman who is soon assigned to a church in a village just beyond London. Jane is sorry to give up her London residence and her close proximity to Prudence, a younger woman who is still unmarried, though she has managed to accumulate a number of ‘romances.’ Jane immediately falls into the role of a mini
JANE AND PRUDENCE.
This is another early novel by Ms. Pym that features another “excellent woman” as one of the principal characters – Jane.
Jane is sorry to give up her London residence and her close proximity to Prudence, a younger woman who is still unmarried, though she has managed to accumulate a number of ‘romances.’ Jane immediately falls into the role of a minister’s wife at her new residence, dispensing gallons of tea and cucumber sandwiches to her new parishioners.
When I first met this character in the story, I was immediately reminded of Gracie Allen.
Si hay algo característico en los libros de Barbara Pym además del té y su fina ironía son los personajes peculiares y extravagantes, mis favoritos han sido la imaginativa Jane, la señorita Dogget (me conquistó con una conversación sobre un antropólogo), la astuta señorita Morrow o el apesadumbrado Fabian.
Several people recommended Barbara Pym’s novels as cheering, so I scoured the library for them and read ‘Jane and Prudence’ on the train.
Indeed, I found Prudence quite personally relatable, albeit not in her love life.
For instance:Indeed, it was obvious that at times she found him both boring and irritating.
But wasn’t that what so many marriages were - finding a person boring and irritating yet loving him?
Who could imagine a man who was never boring or irritating?
I will definitely be reading more of Pym’s novels, as the library has a selection.
Another lovely Barbara Pym. Witty and touching,lovely characters, A look into a bygone era of the English village when life revolved around the vicarage, politeness, tea and cucumber sandwiches and the occasional raised eyebrow, even Fabian the womaniser does it in an awfully polite way !
More like 4.5 stars.Dear Simran,This book was very good and I enjoyed it very much. I think you should read it.Kindest Regards,Jemidar
While I didn't love this as much as Pym's first two novels, it was still a delight. Here again Pym softly skewers mid-20th-century British notions of gender, class, religion, sex, and whatnot. Jane—perfectly summed up in the blurb as "an incompetent vicar's wife, who always looks like she's about to feed the chickens" was richly drawn; her younger, sexually-liberated friend Prudence did not come as alive on the page, I didn't think.
Jane and Prudence is not her best known, but if some of her other books are better than this one, I have GOT to read them.The plot is somewhat formulaic: older minister's wife is playing matchmaker for her younger friend.
On page 145, a young man comes to her door looking for old clothes for sale.
That's our Jane, crazy, but not dangerous.Prudence is a 29 year old who has had many love affairs but none have ended in marriage.
These characters are very entertaining; I'm glad they are in the book, though, and not my neighbors!!Pym's better known books are Excellent Women and A Glass of Blessings.
In fact, nothing is really "solved" at all - Prudence is still hopping from one unsatisfactory love affair to the next and Jane is still as inept as ever as a housewife and hasn't learned anything from her bad match-making experiences.I guess that if you are in a certain mood, this could be a bit depressing because it so reflects the realities of human behavior, but to me the freshness of Pym's writing and her wit very much outweighed the depressing bits.
This one is the story of Jane Cleveland, a country vicar’s wife who is kind hearted, slightly eccentric, and far from the “ideal” vicar’s wife―she is not a particularly good housekeeper, can’t cook (beyond opening a tin), seems to say the wrong things and makes quite a few faux pas, but is loved by and loves her family (husband and daughter), leading a rather happy life.
Here we meet Miss Doggett and Miss Morrow, also Barbara Bird (from Crampton Hodnet) and also hear of how things turned out for Mildred Lathbury.
I've been reading Barbara Pym's books in order, so this is our third.
not that "vim" is an idea you'd associate with any of her books, but still.Jane and Prudence seemed somewhat of a more bitter book than the first two, and there was definitely a stronger, more unhappy current of feminism running through it.
I actually found myself getting annoyed at Jane and Prudence.Still, Prudence and Flora seemed to inject some youth into what have generally seemed to be stories of the middle aged, and Prudence, in particular, marks the emergence of the "New Woman" in Pym fiction.

British author Barbara Pym is a treasure. Initially, her books seem like dry, straight-forward accounts of spinsters and ministers' wives. Very civilized and detailed, the plots weave in and out of the different characters' thoughts as they unfold. Set close to the WWII period, this book was seemingly paced more slowly within a more simple world. The heroines and friends, Jane and Prudence are both warped as they struggle to adapt to an environment that just doesn't fit.... Sly, subtle writing.
But when Jane moves to a new parish in the country and encounters handsome widower Fabian Driver, she believes she has found the perfect man for her unattached friend.
Pym's eye for detail and social nuance brings to life the inhabitants of both village and suburb in one of her most wistful and purely funny novels."~~back coverA charming book, as all her books are -- a gentle read that lets the reader feel gently superior at both Jane and Prudence, who each in their own way are stereotypes of English women of a certain class.
Published in 1953 when Pym was at the height of her powers, here we find two old friends from their Oxford days; Jane - a vicar's wife - and Prudence - single, beautiful, and infatuated with the distracted academic she works for.
This is a woman's world, as Jane thinks early in the novel, and men are really there as a backdrop.
Here we have the spotless dialogue, the sly humour, the sharply drawn little world that Pym both knew and created so exquisitely.
Jane wants to find Prudence a husband, and delves among the available men of the neighbourhood; a brooding widower, a Member of Parliament.
This book had many of the same characters and the same setting as Crampton Hodnet.
The story and characters were just as witty and real, however, I found it didn't have so many of the great little asides and observations as Crampton Hodnet, and the ending left me a bit unsatisfied.
She is a clegymans wife who was a literary major in college, wrote a book about 17th century poetry, and had no idea how to deal with a household, cooking, cleaning, etc.
Barbara Pym is one of the most readable writers ever. Her prose rolls off the page like candy. True, very little actually happens in her books. There is an endless focus on the Church of England, the tension between high and low church. But religion in her world is a social institution more than anything. This is not the first time I've read "Jane and Prudence." It's not one of my favorites of hers, but it's still delectably readable.
This was an easy, enjoyable read in the style of Cranford. The story revoles around Jane, a middle aged clergyman's wife, and her young spinster friend Prudence. Jane tries to be a dutiful wife of the sort in Trollope's Barchester novels but finds real life falls short of fiction. Prudence meanwhile embarks on a series of mostly fanciful romances with highly unsuitable men while a suitable candidate is right under her nose. A cosy story of village life and the goings on of it's inhabitants.
sometimes a book just happens to hit the spot just at the right time.) At first, it was a little slow-moving for me but once I began to delve into the lives of the characters I found it to be a fast read and so entertaining!Jane is a thoroughly incompetent vicar's wife who doesn't seem to mind that she can't seem to get her act together.
We knew that it went on, of course - in London, I believe.''Yes, it seems suitable that things like that should go on in London,' Jane agreed.
Jane Cleveland and Prudence Bates first knew one another at Oxford, Jane some years older than Prudence had once been her tutor.
Jane sees local widower Fabian Driver as a possible romantic interest for her friend Prudence.Prudence living alone in London, and working as an assistant to Dr Grampian, for whom she has nursed secret tender feelings, is invited to stay in the new vicarage – a whist drive a somewhat dubious incentive.
There is more than one church – Nicholas is in completion with the high Anglicans the Roman Catholics and the Methodists.
Jane (in a not-quite-focused way) tries to think of who might be suitable for Prudence in this new town.Aside from scenes set at Prudence's office (where her spinster coworkers pay close attention to what time the tea should be brought in, and mild chatter about the two men in the office), the majority of the book is set in the country parish, where you have the usual assemblage of busybodies and village VIPs. As with all Pym novels, you're presented with women in a rather narrow life, struggling to find their niche or at least muddle through without one.
This lady brings me so much joy and comfort. Not only are her books funny, but they tackle very serious issues: relationships (beware! spinsterhood!), religion and feminism. This particular one, poetry as well. And tea, lots and lots of tea.
