https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/189445.Pumpkin_Moonshine
This book from the 30s is a sweet example.
The artwork is simple and quaint.
The story is simple and entertaining.
A pumpkin to make moonshine.
Here moonshine refers to the jack-o-lantern face that shines at night.
It would be an interesting story if they were actually making Pumpkin Moonshine.The Kids had a mixed reaction.
The niece thought this story cute and sweet, not usual for her and she gave it 4 stars while the nephew found this book rather boring apart from the pumpkin knocking down a man which he laughed at.
He gave it 2 stars, one of the laugh.
A runaway pumpkin causes mayhem and delight one lovely autumn day.Written in 1938, this story is sweet, and gentle. A fun nostalgic read for grown-ups, but I'm not sure how much this will appeal to today's young readers who seem to have a hankering for bright colors, and loads of action.
This adorable little book dates from 1938. It is about a girl who has a pumpkin, but it rolls down a hill, bumping into a man and terrorizing the animals. She helps the man up, and then her father cuts the pumpkin and they make "pumpkin moonshine." (That is what this book calls a jack o'lantern.) I especially like the end, because she saves the seeds and plants them to grow more pumpkins.
As a lover of all things Halloween, I stumbled across this adorable picture book in the library.
With the word 'moonshine" in the title, I thought it might be a parody and not a kid book.Nope, it's a sweet little story about a little girl who wants to find and cut a pumpkin, add a candle and place it on a fence post where it will moonshine in the dark.The drawings are lovely and in the [now] vintage style we old folks remember from our Dick and Jane books.If you love Halloween and kid books I suggest you get this gem.
I know it will be joining my small collection of children's Halloween books.
I actually read the title and thought  Why is this in the children's department?
, but then I read it and was tickled at my ignorance.
It is a very cute story about a little girl that wants to make what we now call a jack-o'-lantern.
There are no detailed instruction on how to make a pumpkin moonshine, but the illustrations and wording are good enough to guide readers in making one of their own.It is a great way to teach the different languages or words used for the same object.
Pumpkin moonshine = Jack-o'-lantern.
What I like about the book "Pumpkin Moonshine"1 - It was written in 1938.2 - Sylvie Ann went out looking for a pumpkin (active.)3 - I like to imagine reading it to children, "It frightened the goats!!" "ker thumpity, bumpity, thump!"4 - Sylvie Ann was respectful and considerate to Mr. Hemmelskamp.5 - Sylvie Ann saved the pumpkin seeds and planted them in the spring (thrifty, environmental and active.)I liked this book and plan on reading more of Tasha Tudor's book.
This is a sweet little book with an old fashioned story and simple, sweet illustrations. The pictures remind me of those from Beatrix Potter's tales. I like that it takes place in New England, with the wonderful, crisp feel of the Fall season flowing throughout the story.
All little girls should have this one in their library. What a treasure!
Simple tale that takes you back to a rural Halloween that people celebrated a long time ago.
Sweet little book and an innocent and endearing story.
love tasha's illustrations and sweet stories
Tasha Tudor is a kindred spirit of mine because I've often wished I could drop out of this century & act like I live in the long-ago past.
Her drawings & prose make me feel warm & comforted.
Her artistry inspires me & makes me want to drop my iPod & cellphone & pick up a needle & thread, fountain pen or paintbrush.
I also love anything New England & her books transport me there.
Holidays always give me hope, & Tasha Tudor's books about holidays (this one, "Around the Year," etc.) make my heart lighter & my future seem brighter.
Yes, this is a four star for me, I love the illustrations and the depiction of fall in the country, going to the corn field and looking for a pumpkin. Tasha Tudor's illustrations are always dainty and beautiful. However, first published in 1938, I am not sure the appeal remains for the 21st century child as most of this way of life is far removed from them. The pumpkin on a roll down the hill may interest some children as that type of occurence is a timeless happening. What does anyone else think about 21st century appeal to children?
It's difficult not to love a Tasha Tudor book; the stories are usually as charming as the art, and this is no exception. I thought the art in this one seemed more simplistic than many of her books. Then I read that it was one of her earlier books. While I can take up doubt about the physics of the story, specifically the fate of the rolling pumpkin, I can't deny the charm of Sylvie Ann and her doggy friend. A great wholesome old fashioned autumn story to share with the kids in your lives.
I can't resist anything written and/or illustrated by the incomparable Tasha Tudor. And when that book has a harvest/Halloween theme, then I'm hopelessly hooked. It takes all of a minute to read this sweet little book, but the artwork is worth looking over for hours. A delight.
Did you know that another name for jack-o-lantern, is pumpkin moonshine? I didn't until I read this simple little book. The pictures are sweet. A little girl and her adventure of getting and carving a pumpkin moonshine!
Pumpkin Moonshine is artist/illustrator Tasha Tudor's first excursion into the publishing world. Fun to read and own if only for that reason. A delightful read from 1938.
no real moonshine involved :(
A sweet picturebook with gentle illustrations about a young girl's attempt to make a jack-o-lantern.themes: farms, Halloween, Jack-o-lanterns, pumpkins
An inocuous, concise story with classical illustrations and decent vocabulary.
I love Tasha Tudor stories and illustrations. This wee book is just plain adorable and perfect for Halloween.
Delightful story about finding a pumpkin to carve ("Pumpkin moonshine" = jack o' lantern), with Tudor's classic illustrations. Short, but very sweet.
Oh, Tasha Tudor...
I just love Tudor's illustrations, but I'm not as big a fan of the story.
Cute.
Not referring to a pumpkin ale. 😀
I found this in my Library and was very confused by the title. Is this a regional term for a jack o' lantern? The story is cute and the character of the young girl is very wholesome but I am stuck on the unfamiliar term.
Lest you be thinking this book if about a certain American beverage, I will tell you that it is instead a gentle story about finding and making a jack-o-lantern (AKA pumpkin moonshine—an adorable term!)This book is suitable for the very young—both my 2 year old and 4 year old enjoy it tremendously and request it daily when I bring it out for the fall / Halloween season.
I love that the little girl Sylvie Ann is a polite girl and that the story is one of simple enjoyment of the holiday.If you enjoy Beatrix Potter, then you will enjoy this book.
Originally written in 1938, the story and the illustrations may be a bit old fashioned, but I think it’s still a cute picture book to share with young children.
Getting ready for Halloween decorating, Sylvie Ann climbs the hill to pick a pumpkin in the field.
The pumpkin gets away from her and causes mayhem in the barnyard.
It would be fun to use as a way to talk about the sequence of events in stories and cause and effect relationships.
It would also be a fun part of a seasonal book collection in the classroom library.
Little Sylvie's pumpkin rolls off down the hill, disrupting everyone! This was simple, but pretty cute--maybe it would work for Toddles Tales. The only confusing thing was what "Pumpkin Moonshine" is, which is apparently a Jack-o-lantern, not alchohol, hahaha.
