https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/413179.The_Clash_of_Civilizations_and_the_Remaking_of_World_Order
Nation states will remain the most powerful actors in world affairs, but the principal conflicts of global politics will occur between nations and groups of different civilizations.
The fault lines between civilizations will be the battle lines of the future He divides the world into 8 major “civilizations”: sinic, western, orthodox Christian, Islamic, Hindu, Japanese, Latin American, African, and basically says that in the future, when the age of ideology is over, the cultural and civilizational rifts will be the main cause of conflicts.
But I never believe in such things, I never believe that people have enough time sitting on their ass and hating another group just because their culture and religion are different.
"Clash of Civilizations" is an easy book to misread.
Many have taken Huntington to task because he pessimistically forecasted a world of discord following the Cold War. The headlines of the past decade beg to differ.
The world according to Samuel Huntington was going to reset to its multi-polar default setting, each pole being the center of a culture/religion/ethnicity that had always existed in world history.
The bipolar Cold War was the aberration, just as un-natural as a "unipolar" world following the fall of the Soviet Union.
Many misread this book as well, skipping all the material just to read what Kennedy forecasted for the world post-1990.
Huntington probably came up with one of the most realistic models - unlike the ideologically divided world before the cold war, the post-Cold War world's inhabitants will increasingly define themselves not on ideological grounds, but on cultural (civilizational, even religious) lines and hence the new world order will be organized around the same.
Huntington faces up boldly against Fukuyama's partisan view that Capitalism is the final stage of history (extending Hegel), but falls into the same trap by implying throughout the book that the western culture is the best and is in dire need of preserving, dedicating much of the later part of the work to strategies aimed at this end.As per this thesis, as the Asian and Islamic civilizations rise into economic prominence, the new world order will also tilt towards them (not to mention the additional demographic and immigrational pressures fueling this).
The author’s premise is that with the collapse of communism and the break-up of the Soviet Union, the Cold War is over and therefore we need a new paradigm in which to view our world.
The U.S. saw the defeat of the Soviet Union in Afghanistan as a victory for the West against communism, but the Islamic world viewed it as a successful religious jihad against a superpower.
There are basic Human Rights, like gender equality and the evil of torture, which many view as “sacrosanct universal principals”.
وهو كتاب قوي ومهم ومفيد.فيه تدليس كبير في أشياء كثيرة، خصوصا فيما يتعلق بمحاولته صناعة وحدة ثقافية غربية تحت قيادة أمريكية فهو يتجاوز كل الفروق ويسميها "علاقات قربى ثقافية" بينما إذا وجد أقل من هذه الفروق بين قوم يريد لهم أن يكونوا مختلفين لجعلها فورا من "عوامل التمزق" التي تستحيل معها الوحدة.عموما، جوانب تدليسه لا تهمنا كثيرا لأنها متعلقة بموقفه ورؤيته من قومه، بينما ما يهمنا هو نظرتهم إلينا وللصراع معنا..
فهو في هذا الجانب مهم للغاية.والكتاب نفسه رد على نظرية فوكوياما "نهاية التاريخ" وهي النظرية التافهة المتهافتة التي يبدو أنه كتبها وهو يعاني من أحلام اليقظة، وقد أحسن فوكوياما إذ تراجع عنها بعد ذلك.

Huntington's original work was written in response to the 1991 Gulf War, and the expanded book was based on events in the 90s, such as the Yugoslav wars, Chechnya, and the very nature of Sino-Western relations.However, very little has transpired to prove Huntington wrong, and few would argue that his main policy proscription, that the West only mediate, not directly involve themselves with disputes involving other civilizations.I think the dust will never settle on the debate over Huntington's thesis, but Huntington has convinced this reader at least.
با پایان یافتن جنگ سرد در اواخر قرن بیستم و شروع آنچه که به "نظام نوین جهانی" معروف است دو نظریه در روابط بینالملل مطرح شد. عدهای از آن به مثابه  پایان تاریخ  یاد کردند و با نگاهی خوشبینانه به توفق نظام لیبرال دموکراسی بر سراسر کره خاکی و پایان تضادهای ایدئولوژیک اذعان داشتند و نظریه پرداز آن نیز  فرانسیس فوکویاما  بود. عدهای نیز برخلاف دسته اول، و چه بسا در پاسخ به دسته اول، نگاه خوشبینانهای به این موضوع نداشتند و از یک هشدار خبر میدادند. ساموئل هانتینگتون نظریهپرداز دسته دوم بود. دانشمند علوم
دانشمند علوم سیاسی و استاد دانشگاه هاروارد با چاپ مقاله خود با نام  برخورد تمدن‌ها  در نشریه فارین افیرز به تحلیل و تبیین دوران روابط غرب با سایرین پس از اتمام جنگ سرد پرداخت.وی تمدن‌های زنده جهان را به هفت یا هشت تمدن بزرگ تقسیم کرد:  غربی، کنفوسیوسی، ژاپنی، اسلامی، هندو، اسلاو، ارتدوکس، آمریکای لاتین  و در حاشیه هم تمدن آفریقایی و  خطوط گسل  میان این تمدن‌ها را منشا درگیری‌های جهان آتی و جایگزین دولت-ملت‌ها دانست.
تفاوت و اهمیت نظریه هانتینگتون به زمان شناسی و هوشمندی او در ارائه نظریه‌اش درست در هنگام وجود یک خلا فکری و نظری در حوزه روابط بین‌الملل برمیگردد.نظریه وی که نظریه‌ای  سیاست‌ساز  شد این روزها با رشد گروه‌های بنیادگرای اسلامی در خاورمیانه و تقابل این گروه‌ها با غرب اهمیتش بیش از پیش در افکار عمومی و محافل دانشگاهی مطرح شده است.
Quite the contrary, I think the book is dangerously oversimplifying the current situation in world politics and trying to shoe-horn world events into a seductively simple-looking world view that, although advertised as a new paradigm, looks suspiciously like the cold-war paradigm on steroids.
Since the human mind often prefers such simple explanations over more complicated ones, and because they also tend to be rather convenient for power-hungry leaders and institutions, these ideas should be very critically examined.As a whole the book seems well argued and an honest attempt at analysis.
وتبدأ النسخة العربية بمقدمة المترجم والتي فند فيها أفكار الكتاب واعترض على طرحه مما جعلني أشعر بعدم الرغبة في قراءته، فكنت أتمنى لو كان المترجم قد أجل تحليله لنهاية الكتاب وترك للقاريء حرية التحليل والاستنتاج.أهم الأفكار التي طرحها صامويل هانتجتون في كتابه هي كالتالي:١- يعرف الكاتب الحضارة بأنها الكيان الثقافي الأوسع الذي يضم الجماعات الثقافية وفيها يعرّف الناس أنفسهم بالنسب، الدين، اللغة، التاريخ، القيم، العادات، والمؤسسات الاجتماعية.٢- أن الصدامات على مر التاريخ متغيرة بحسب الفئات المتصارعه فمثلا في الثورة الفرنسية كان الصراع بين الطبقات ثم تغير الصراع بين القوميات في الحربين العالميتين.٣- بعد الحربين العالميتين تحول الصدام بين الأيدلوجيتين: الماركسية الشيوعية بقيادة الإتحاد السوفيتي من جهة والليبرالية الرأسمالية بقيادة أمريكا والغرب من جهة أخرى.٤- بعد إنهيار الإتحاد السوفيتي وسقوط الشيوعية بدا وكأن الليبرالية الرأسمالية انتصرت وستكون هي المسيطرة على العالم، وذهب بعض الكتاب مثل ( فوكوياما ) في كتابه " نهاية التاريخ " إلى أن جميع دول العالم ستتبنى الأيدلوجية الليبرالية الرأسمالية.٥- فند هانتجتون هذا التصور وغيره وتبنى تصوراً آخر مفاده أن الصدام سيستمر وسيتحول من صدام الأيدلوجيات إلى صدام الحضارات.
Alas the world is full of cultures, sub-cultures and counter-cultures within each civilization and so it is a little more complex.
This also has deep implications when it comes to foreign policy, if you treat every culture as homogeneous I believe you are making a grave mistake, especially if those sub-cultures or counter-cultures could be possible allies or enemies.
I give these examples since Huntington's thesis argues that Muslim culture is the most prone to violence and thus the most dangerous.
It is not meant to be so easily divided and doing so I believe is creating a dangerously false paradigm of the world.
يرى الكاتب ان ضعف الحضارة العربية والاسلامية وأفول وهجها يعود فى الاساس لتشرذم طوائف المسلمين وتشتت جهودهم وتفرقهم تحت أعلام وولاءات مختلفة والبعد عن القيم الاسلامية ويدلل على ذلك بكثرة الفتوحات الاسلامية ايام الامويين والعباسيين.
ولكن الكاتب يشطح فى هذا الجانب ويدعى ان طوائف الاسلاميين هم الاكثر دموية على مر التاريخ وصدام الحضارة الاسلامية مع نظيراتها من الحضارات المعاصرة لها وفيما بينهم ويتناسى فى هذا الصدد قتل الملايين فى الحروب المسيحية والبوذية والصينية وغيرها.
ومن المفترض في هذا الخطاب الاستشراقي أن المجتمعات الغربية -وما يرتبط بها من ثقافات ولغات وعقليات- هي في الأساس متفوقة بطبيعتها عن تلك الشرقية على نحو ما يذهب إدوارد سعيد بقوله إن "جوهر الاستشراق هو التمييز المتأصل بين التفوق الغربي والدونية الشرقية...".
وفي أحد الجدالات الاستشراقية الشهيرة نجد برنارد لويس يعلمنا أنه "في تفسير الظاهرة السياسية الإسلامية ليس دقيقا اللجوء إلى تلك اللغة التي تفرق بين ما هو يميني ويساري، تقدمي ومحافظ، وغيرها من المصطلحات الغربية...
وفي تلك اللحظة الفارقة في تاريخ العالم العربي، كان لدى سعيد الكثير الذي كان بوسعه أن يعلمنا إياه عن الملابسات التي سنجابهها في خضم الأحداث الجارية والمقبلة.
the English review after the Arabic.=====================================صدام الحضارات لصاموئيل هنتن
Culture at the macro, or "civilizational" level plays a fundamental role in global politics - including conflict.
He doesn't address how civilizational culture changes and develops - he mainly points out it's near primacy in conflict.I was challenged by this book, therefore I loved it!
or is it a positive example of incremental and fundamental reformation of a civilizational culture?I have to believe that deep cultural values can change.
The obvious example is the Balkans: Orthodox Serbia fought Muslim Bosnia, both of whom were at war with Catholic Croatia.While ideologies (Marxism, democratic capitalism) are nice and make academics and news pundits feel good, civilization/culture has a more primal claim upon people groups/ethnicities/states and in the absence of one ideology (say, Marxism) a nation will more likely identify with prior civilizational loyalties rather than the opposing ideology.
Ironically, Huntingdon had argued that doing so would actually make America lose the next world war, which will be a clash between a Chinese or Islamic (or both) civilization.
The material is obviously dated, but the author made some good points to consider.The use in the book of the break-up of Yugoslavia and the resulting civil war between Catholic Croatians, Orthodox Serbs and Islamic Bosnians got my attention.
The one outlier was the U.S., which provided minimal backing to Bosnia because early news reports documenting atrocities against them aroused widespread sympathy among the general public.Mr. Huntington had provoked a firestorm of protest by documenting that the one civilization (out of Western, Orthodox, Sino, Japanese, Islamic, Hindu, Buddhist, African and Latin American) that was clashing the most with its neighbors was Islamic.
I have been meaning to get around to this book for awhile. It is certainly influential. it is so influential that it may feed somewhat into the problems it forecasts like Spengler in 30s Germany. however I don't want to beat on the messenger too much. Some of schema of differing civilizations has some truth and modernization is nor westernization. However with grand theories like declines of the West or clashes of civilizations they too simplistic and worse yet too polarizing. But such books and their popularity seem inevitable.
He can be proud of his country yet that doesn’t prevent him from appreciating the culture of other people of other cultures.His thesis is this; that the future international policies and conflicts would be on the civilizational level, instead of national or ideological.
He declared admirably for Singapore’s standing up to their own cultures and values, enlisting the country’s White Paper as communalities, one of the three ways he prescribed for peace in the face of intercivilizational future conflicts, despite saying that actions akin to Singapore by other non-Western civilizations are a “revolt against the West”, perhaps misunderstanding that we should pay tribute and obedience eternally to our past invaders.The chapter "le revanche de dieu" commenting on the phenomenon of religious revival in current times.
Very rarely however it is possible to rate a text based on its brilliant standing to future scrutiny.- The book offers a kind of a play book to analyze global alliances, conflicts and soft and hard foreign policy positioning outside of the usually accepted political and economic impulses.
Although not every global foreign event can be explained in the context of civilizations, this book helps create a good mind map of loosely and closely connected states.- Finally, the book offers the chilling possibility that modern state as a unit of organization and governance may someday be challenged and even replaced by broad groupings deriving common cause from civilizational issues.
I have found that political works—especially those suffused with predictions of future world events—simply do not age well.
Many still believe Mandarin will become the global language at some distant point in the future, but Huntington did argue that the use of English would gradually erode as a medium across cultures.
A military budget of $619 billion still dwarfs the spending of other countries in the world.
This error is pardonable since—at the time this book was being written—U.S. military spending was indeed on a brief decline.
In contemporary American politics few would argue that the U.S. is not spending enough on military.
Huntington refers to the post-Cold War era in his hypothesis that cultural differences in our international society will lead to conflict.
He comments on the importance of borders among nation states and perpetuates the realist notion that cultural differences can only lead to conflict.
Instead of embracing the differences that unite us, he states that some actors are bound to be more powerful, hence conflict is inevitable.
The reasoning behind his view on the current state of affairs is that fundamental cultural differences are “the product of centuries”, so they will not disappear any time soon.
People tend to fight with or against one another based upon multiple cultural factors that make up one's civilizational heritage rather than superficial borders created by a nation state.
Before reading, I believed that ideologies informed a countries liklihood to enter conflicts.
Therefore, spreading an ideology of capitalism and democracy is a just policy objective for the United States and the "West".
However, Huntington convinces me that it is futile and possibly immoral to impose western ideologies on other civilizations.
There are multiple nuances about modernity, the western imperative of universal values, and the future of global power discussed here that are worthy of the read.
While I don't always agree with Huntington's conclusions and opinions -- and I sometimes dispute his "facts" -- I must say that this book is an excellent introduction to the issues that we, inhabitants of the world, face as the world continues to "shrink" and members of such a great variety of civilizations and cultures are brought closer and closer together.
Huntington's consideration of what it is that makes Western Civilization different from the other civilizations of the world and 2.
I recommend this book to all people of all civilizations as seek to live together peacefully in this complex world of ours.
تقييمي بشكل عام للكتاب انه ممتاز واستفادتي منه كانت كبيرة.يقسم المؤلف -بإختصار شديد- كتابه إلى خمسة أقسام رئيسية ذات تسلسل وتدرج منطقي حيث:- يبدأ بطرح تعريفات الحضارة ومكوناتها وأسس الهويات فيها ومفاهيم الصراعات الثقافية الكبرى.
- ثم ينتقل إلى الحديث عن الضعف الذي سيطرأ على الثقافة الغربية في ميزان القوة العسكرية والاقتصادية والسكانية لصالح القوى الشرقية والإسلامية.
- ثم يأتي إلى مناقشة فكرة الصدام الحضاري العالمي.- وأخيراً، يختم بجملة تلخص الهدف من الكتاب حيث يقول:‫"‬صدام الحضارات هو الخطر الأكثر تهديدا للسلام العالمي، والضمان الأكيد ضد حرب عالمية هو نظام عالمي يقوم على الحضارات"  الكتاب فيه إلماحات جميلة إلي قضايا حضارية قد طال النقاش حولها كفكرة تحديث المجتمعات وعلاقتها بالتغريب ومحاولات طمس هوية الأمة ومدى نجاحها؛ وفكرة الإختلاف الداخلي بين عناصر الأمة الواحدة والتعامل مع هذا الاختلاف.الكتاب ضخم (أكثر من ٥٠٠ صفحة) لكنه فعلاً غاية في المتعة والفائدة.
This is a decent book in the manner that the author covers many different aspects of interaction between different cultures and civilizations, with a lot of research and some adequate analysis.
It is however, in my opinion, deeply flawed; as a lot of missing factors were neglected, either because of a lack of space or concern by the author.
I would not recommend it to anyone as a primer on international relations, however for further study there are some good points to be considered.
The New Current World Order Much of the middle part of the book is taken up by laying out the culture-based civilizations to come (as seen from 1997) and looking at the world today, Huntington was downright prescient: Western (Western Europe, the US, Canada, Australia, etc.), Asian (China and most of the far east, but NOT Japan), Islamic (countries that are majority Muslim of course), Latin (the Americas south of the US), and African (sub-Saharan Africa, basically).
For example, among other things, he suggests that the West: achieves greater political, economic and military integration and coordinates policies so as to preclude states from other civilizations from exploiting differences among them; encourages the 'westernization' of Latin America; restrains the development of the military power of Sinic and Islamic countries; accepts Russia as the leader of the core state of Orthodoxy; and suggests the maintenance of Western technological and military superiority over other civilizations.
This book seems a bit right wing in nature, and anti multiculturalist.
It draws a very gloomy picture of how western civilization is going into decline, and how people will get maimed, enslaved and tortured by emerging less civilized hordes.
Huntington draws a bleak picture without fully citing other outcomes for western civilization.
Many other writers see more positive outcomes due to increasing education globally, and the increase of women participating in leadership and economic activity.
Huntington ignores that idea.
The Buddist version?
The Muslim version?
The socialist version?
In short, this book is a bit ethnocentric.
The clash of civilization has always been the main driving force behind the fundamental historical developments, and the Cold War was just (in Huntington’s view) an interlude that may prove to be an aberration in the long march of history.
Even though this book makes a very persuasive case for the general outline of the future global geopolitical groupings and tensions, I have been far less impressed with the exact prediction of how these wars start, evolve, and resolve themselves.
Another aspect in which I feel the book falls short is in its appreciation of the way that ideology will drive future conflicts.
