https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/25706.The_Money_Game
One of the few books you'll ever need in life. Never get emotional over a worthless piece of paper with fancy symbols and numbers. Save, invest, keep playing the game. God bless you Mr. Goodman.-bb
Professional investing is intolerably boring and over exacting to anyone who lacks the gambling instinct, while anyone who has it must pay to this propensity the appropriate toll. (Lord Keynes)The world is not the way they tell you it is. Charts and measures describe an emotional state. A group of men is like a single woman.
Unlike the holier than thou value investing books, many of which I’ve had the pleasure of reading, this one does not claim that there is any meaning to the investment activity, other than acquisition of financial wealth, nor does it portray the “pursuit of alpha” as anything meaningful, an end in itself.The author is rather personable and observant, yet another player on Wall Street, successful, but no one that will be remembered.
After he’s been at it for a while, he starts to muse on the subject of what money actually is, and what is it all for.
My favorite investment book. Not about who or what, but a book about why. Why do we play the game? It covers the Go-Go years of the 1960s, but the insight into human behavior, the humor, the weird behavior of doing the wrong thing even when you know better still apply. Investors can immediately see pieces of themselves and others in the very human profiles.
The joke is only made because the butt is so famous – by making fun of someone, the joke is actually inflating his or her position: the system remains intact.“The Money Game” works the same way, but within the logic of Wall Street.
“Yes,” it says, “money is a game, played by the rich and for the rich, and that’s as it should be.” ‘Adam Smith,’ the pseudonymous author, does a likeable job of pointing out the silliness of certain financial types (the amateur investor, the idiot expert, etc.) and teasing the financial powers that be, but this is all coming from a man who makes his money on Wall Street, who is inherently of the system he’s commenting on.
Did not feel this was worth my time and did not live up to the hype. some chuckle moments and some good history lesson and general market advice, but I have heard it all said much better in other texts about investing and the market.
On one hand the book is eons ahead of its time, crafting the mindset-house that practitioners like Warren Buffett, Peter Lynch and the behavioural finance entourage would furnish.
But the importance of being part of what’s going on, being there and knowing things, supersedes the making money part, at least correctly defined.One is reminded of Lord John Maynard Keynes: “The Game of professional investing is intolerably boring and overexacting to anyone who is entirely exempt from the gambling instinct; whilst he who has it must pay to this propensity the appropriate toll”.
On a closing note, being so ahead of its time, what did Adam Smith have to say about high frequency trading, topic of the day via his modern-day heir Michael Lewis?
MARKETS ONLY WORK WHEN PEOPLE BELIEVE.The first thing you have to know is yourself. A man who knows himself can step outside himself and watch his own reactions like an observer.Identities are supposed to come from occupations. If the occupation is money-making then anxiety must always be present, because there is always a threat the money which represents the achievement can be taken away.Sometimes markets go on growth binges, especially when bonds and the more traditional securities dont seem to offer intriguing alternatives.
Interesting ReadWriter has gone beyond the theoretical financial frameworks to explain how the financial markets work. He used psychological and social aspects to explain 'The Great Game' of financial markets and diverse motivations of the players involved. It is a light and good read for people interested in a different perspective on markets.
Great book to start off with to understand the stock market. The setting of the book in 1960-1970 is interesting as context to how the market is now.All the major views are included and explored: the fundamentalists, the chartists (technical analysis) and the random walkers.
A snapshot of times gone byIf one wants to learn how traders thought a few decades ago then this book might be helpful. It is definitely not a book about investing with ideas that can be applied and will lead to capital appreciation.The last chapter was good, hence 2 stars. Otherwise 1 star.
Learned a lot about the stock market. This book is awesome. Quick read. Fun. Highly recommend to any student of investing.
Entertaining.
Forty-plus years on and still this book can be capable of making the reader smile and despair at the same time.
Just like on the small screen, now this classic has been rereleased for the benefit of a new set of readers.There is little point reviving the plot, it is quite simple.
The packaging might be different, the pace a little racier and we have more toys at our disposal but nonetheless...It is a light-hearted romp through Wall Street with a serious gaze, becoming something different for everybody whilst being one of those books you probably should have read at least once if you have an interest in investing and investments.
I won't let that be a drag on my rating however, because it seems most people have no problem with this after all.
Such as why do people buy certain stocks?
As a trader myself I enjoy reading this, it is a quite unique perspective among financial books and I have seen these behaviors way too often - both among others and myself.
In the end, the author gives no answers, but I think reading this book still will make you think more realistically about what factors really propel market movements.
A very clever book, even (maybe more so) 50 years later.My synopsis is: It is a game.
Enjoy it.
Smith extensively quotes John Maynard Keynes and holds him as the model investor who understands this reality.
I look forward to reading more on the latter.A quote I particularly enjoyed:"There is no such thing as a final answer to security values.
It often happens that a few moments later each would alter his verdict if given a chance to reconsider because of a changed condition.
what goes on during their daily lives while they make moves in the markets, what some are thinking in order to make the decisions that are made.
the book is fifty years old and the level of thinking back than is the same as today, only today it is at a faster speed!!.
This book was wrote at the onset of the computer industry and talks about the speed and analysis taking place 50 years ago.
After all the analysis is completed, a move is made that could be right or wrong , good or bad depending on the market that day.
The Money Game (Adam Smith)It is an amazing book.
The author has used the word "game "as for most of the participants it is an activity where they seek fun and frolic, some are here for bragging rights, for kick.
Also market is a subject for continuously measurable options.
The book deals with the psychology of market participants, the chartists, the fundamentalists, the random walk believers to the brokers and fund managers.
It is necessary to know who you are before you dwell in markets as greed and fear rule here.
It is a must read for anyone interested in the markets.
An enjoyable read from start to finish, taking you through some of the pitfalls and self promotion in the human investor psyche which is as equally relevant today as it was in the '60s. The book is a good summation of knowing your limits and the limits if those around you whilst accepting that the price is the price and there are many ways to pay when playing the game.
Quick and dirty review, which I can get away with because I'm writing it on my phone while an infant sleeps on me:A Plimpton-esque take on the psychological aspects of the stock market. Most of the dated parts are retro in a good way instead of obsolete. The main gist stands the test of time. Highlighted quote: "The object of the game is to get markets to chase the stock."
Although it's a few decades old, this is still a wonderful and relevant summary of investment strategies and the industry as a whole. You do have to get beyond the blatant sexism, but it's worth it for anyone with even a passing interest in the markets/finance.
The hilarious story about Marvin the Futures Trader traveling to Africa to investigate the cocoa crop is worth the price of the book alone.
this is ok so far i got a chapter left but ive been sorta reading it for like 6 months cause i get stupid. or am stupid. whatever, its awfuly funny in parts liek when it makes fun of computers.
This book starts out stating that it covers "...image and reality and identity and anxiety and money. If that doesn't scare you off, then nothing will."That pretty much says it all.
A masterpiece. Highly recommended for anyone wanting to understand the financial pages of the newspapers.
A great accompaniment to other bookshelf classics like "Reminiscences of a Stock Operator" and "Where are the customers' yachts?"
Humorously explores basic human emotions like greed, envy, and insecurity on Wall Street in the '60s and '70s.
Fantastic read. Still applicable despite being 40 years old.
Stilted writing.
Paul Samuelson is right. It is a modern classic. Read it before "Supermoney," the next 'Adam Smith' book.
