https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/325421.The_Story_of_Doctor_Dolittle
The Story of Doctor Dolittle (Doctor Dolittle, #1), Hugh Lofting, Leon Jasonتاریخ نخستین خوانش: بیست و سوم سپتامبر سال 1977 میلادیعنوان: دکتر دولیتل؛ نویسنده: هیو لافتینگ؛ مترجم: ایراندخت اردیبهشتی؛ نقاشی جلد و گراورها: لئون ژازون (حیسون)؛ تهران، امیرکبیر، کتابهای طلائی، چاپ دوم 1355؛ در 105 ص، مصور؛ داستان دکتر دولیتل، در هنگامه ی جنگ جهانگیر نخست و در سنگر نوشته شد.
هیو لافتینگ، به جای آنکه روایتگر لحظه های خون و آتش و فریاد باشد، قصه ی شاد و زیبای دکتر دولیتل را با شخصیتهایی همچو: دب دب (اردک)؛ و گب گب (خوک)؛ و پولینزیا (طوطی)؛ نقاشی کرد و برای دو فرزندش فرستاد.
How many of you have seen the 1967 film, or the Eddie Murphy remake, and remember this adorable childhood classic about a kindly English doctor who talks to animals?How many of you have actually read the book and know that it was really, really racist?
I mean, whether you want to excuse it for the time it was written (1920) is up to you, and racism aside, it's quite a charming book with the sort of story any child would love.
But it's definitely a children's story, and, uh, a product of its time.
Even if you've see the Rex Harrison musical, if you haven't read the book, you don't know Dr Dolittle.Small, tubby, and shy, Dr Dolittle is a brilliant doctor whose love of animals loses him his human patients.
And yes, other Dolittle books feature more childlike Africans to whom the Doctor gets to teach "civilized" ways.
Yes, it's offensive.
But my politically-correct-before-it-was-hip-to-be-politically-correct mom read these to me back in the (gulp)60s, and I loved them and somehow didn't grow up to be a bigot.
Or start with another of my favorites in the series Doctor Dolittle's Circus
And not subtle, social racism, either -- not the kind we can ignore or dismiss as "unwitting symptoms of their time." This is flat-out explicit use of three of the most offensive words I've ever encountered.
Each time, I nearly put the book down, but was convinced that people had recommended it to me for a reason.
As it happens, I'm now pretty sure all the people who recommended it to me had not read it in a loooooooooooooooooooooooong time.
Those are what I will take away from the book.Interesting Note: I had never heard the word "coon" used as a racist epithet until I watched "Remember The Titans" in 2003.
This book made me fall in love with books and reading <3
I highly recommend this version with only a slight reservation (see below) because its illustration and editing would make an excellent introduction to children as well as a gift possibility and a lifelong keepsake.
The reviewer mistakenly suggests that the edition conceals that changes have been made.
But if you share my intent of introducing this wonderful story to children, this book serves the purpose very well.
I think this edition would serve children well through elementary school.
I would nominate unabridged editions for older children to help teach them about society's changing attitudes towards racism.
Audible offered this particular edition as a free promotion this summer, which I thought was an excellent excuse to listen to this classic with my children on a road trip.
To a modern audience, there is simply no excusing this.Moreover, I didn't even find the story that enjoyable, and neither did my children.
There are some quality lessons—such as the need to actually listen to the needs of others, as exemplified by Dr. Dolittle taking the time to learn to talk to animals—but the narrative ended up being far too light and scattered to keep our attention.
I read different books & versions of this many years ago, so decided to listen to the original & see how it had aged. Not bad, although not quite as I remembered. This was well read which made it more fun.
Nice story about a Dr. that can talk to animals. I always thought that if I just could listen very carefully, my dogs and cats would talk to me. Sadly it never happened, but it still could one day. :D
Read aloud #6 with the kids for 2017. This one we all agreed was "ok" Some parts got long and boring even for me. Lots of disconnected adventures and troubles Dr Dolittle finds himself in over and over again while just trying to get back home, but they don't exactly propel the story forward as much as fill more pages. Aww, But Dr Dolittle is such a sweet old man.
(As an artifact of its time, certainly, but not for pleasure reading.) I’m not generally a fan of abridged or edited versions of books, but in this case, I consider the changes necessary to make the book appropriate for modern readers.
Should future generations of children be denied the opportunity to read the Doctor Dolittle stories because of a few minor references in one or two of the books that were never intended by the author to comment on any ethnic group, particularly when the references are not an integral or important part of the story?
But it doesn't have that deep magic in the subtext.Apparently I read an edited version, as I've seen other reviews here which lament the racist colonial aspects from from the original publication.
I'm curious if there are various different edited versions out there.
I'd like to get my hands on an old hardcopy someday, and explore Lofting's original text.The movie is pretty bad.
They could have done so much more with this world on camera.I plan to read the second book, The Voyages of Doctor Dolittle, soon, as that won a Newbery medal in 1923.
But no plans to go beyond that.
I really enjoyed reading this.
This probably was a book I should have read when I was younger, but I guess, better late than never.
Between being nice to animals and people, makes you a better person and that money isn't everything.
The animals were darlings, and were enjoyable to spend a few days with.
And Doctor Doolittle, was a great character, that would be wonderful, if more younger kids saw as a hero.This was a free kindle book from amazon that I'll be keeping on my kindle and I might just one day, read it again.
GREAT choice. The children LOVED it and I really enjoyed reading it out loud to them. Total win.
I seem to recall watching a TV series about Doctor Dolittle when I was young, but I guess the Eddie Murphy adaptation is the one that has stuck to mind, but I thought it might be interesting to read the original, and it was interesting in many ways.The central idea of Doctor Dolittle, communicating with animals, and perhaps the acknowledgment of the fact that animals do actually talk, is still important for kids to understand nature.
There are things in the plot line that complicate Lofting as racist, like the animals view of the white capitalistic world Doctor Dolittle comes from.
And there is the story line - in particular in this book the story of Prince Bumpo wanting to change his skin colour.
The reaction from my children was interesting - they started asking questions about why it is that so many fairy princesses have white skin and are fair.
I am glad they started asking this, and I am glad I didn't change the story line.
that is the only way in which my children understood Bumpo at this point in their lives.)I haven't read all the reviews of the book, and maybe there are other experiences like this.
Okay, what I just heard last night (which, I suspect, is just the beginning of the bad) plus a number of the reviews I just read below make me VERY unhappy.
The mind, it boggles.I don't remember owning this book, but I know I read it more than once growing up and enjoyed it.
It's a shame, because there are a lot of great ideas in the book, and I remember enjoying the adventure, but the price is way too high.It is amazing to me that people can actually think that they are not reproducing racism and instilling racist attitudes in their children while counting this as good reading material.
This is the origin story for Doctor Dolittle and company - how he learns the language of animals, the sickness of the monkeys in Africa, and then his exciting voyage home.
The origin and Africa chapters are magical, but it is definitely the voyage home that the real Doctor Dolittle and his animal companions make their appearance.
If you have an interest in children's literature from an intellectual point of view, then by all means download and read the original.
ספר חמוד ומקסים ביותר. לגילאי בית ספר יסודי.
При цялата ми любов към животните, това не е детската книжка, която бих чел на децата си.
Моралните поуки отсъстват, приключенията са досадни, еднообразни и отмиващи фокуса от основната идея - която така и не разбрах каква е.В първата част се говори за един доктор, който избира животните пред хората.
Дотук добре.После тоя доктор фалира и потегля към Африка, да спасява маймуните.
Ок.След това се впуска в битки черни владетели и пирати, както и в алъш-вериш с лъвовете.
Чакай, какво?Накрая се завръща в дома си, за да чете книги на животните пред камината.
Bukan hanya itu saja, Dokter Dolittle ternyata memahami bahasa para hewan!Karena kemampuannya inilah akhirnya ia beralih dari profesi dokter manusia menjadi dokter hewan (dan karena pasien-pasien manusia semakin jarang datang berobat padanya karena rumahnya dipenuhi hewan, padahal ia butuh uang).
Dimulailah petualangan panjang sang dokter bersama para hewan kesayangannya -- pelayaran panjang menuju Afrika, ditangkap dan disekap oleh raja Jolliginki yang jahat, berhasil meloloskan diri, mengobati para monyet, pertemuan dengan pushmi-pullyu yang konon adalah hewan paling langka di dunia, mengelabui gerombolan perompak dan mencuri kapal mereka, sampai akhirnya pulang kembali ke Puddleby-on-the-Marsh.Membaca petualangan Dokter Dolittle bersama para hewan sangat seru dan menyenangkan, sensasinya mirip dengan saat membaca The Jungle Book karya Rudyard Kipling.
Besides The Story of Doctor Dolittle, Hugh Lofting wrote eleven other books in this children's series.Dr. John Doolittle is a respected physician with a love of animals, who eventually loses his human patients due to the increasing amounts of animals that live with him.
While young children reading the novel may not understand the offensiveness in the words and images, it still isn't something I'd want them learning if I was a parent.The one thing that I did enjoy about the book was the relationship that Doctor Dolittle had with his animals.
Good thing: I love to read about animals and this story has some fun ones: a crocodile who promises to not eat the goldfish if he's allowed to live in their pond, a dog who can sniff out a particular brand of snuff, and a brave mouse who follows the doctor on his journey.Bad thing: There's racism.
It's written by a white guy in the 20's who is trying to write about a journey to Africa.
This is a re-read of a book I loved as a child and it holds up pretty well.
We are privy to the ideas and conversations between the animals (much like you see with the characters in Watership Down,though by no means does this book lend itself to the type of character development you see in that novel) rather than the traditional"dress-up" games popular in other children's books featuring animals.The animals act as animals but we get to learn their inner thoughts as Dr. Dolittle can of course speak to the animals.(Remember your stuffed animals used to talk to you as you played as a small child and all of them had a name you had given them?
This new edition substitutes Michael Hague's colorful paintings for Hugh Lofting's original black-and-white drawings.
Additionally, Patricia and Fredrick McKissack have "gently revised for modern sensibilities" some sections of the story "so as to preserve and emphasize Lofting's message of universal caring and understanding" (from the Afterword).Here's Lofting in his own words: "If we make children see that all races, given equal physical and mental chances for development, have about the same batting averages of good and bad, we shall have laid another very substantial foundation stone in the edifice of peace and internationalism." (Also from the Afterword, though I'm not sure of the quote's origin.) Racial stereotypes have no place in such a vision for a peaceful, cooperative world.
Once upon a time, many years ago - when our grandfathers were little children - there was a doctor, and his name was Dolittle - John Dolittle, M.D.
a) I've seen the Rex Harrison musical film several times, b) I'm trying to read a lot more children's classics, and c) it was super cheap at a used bookstore and who can say no to cheap books?
This is the story of John Dolittle, who started out as a proper doctor but ultimately decided that he preferred animals to people.
But overall, it's a sweet story, and I may be picking up the sequel at some point.
I was so disappointed in this book, because it started out well.
In the beginning, it was cute and charming.
But the problem is, this is one of those old-fashioned sort of children's books where nothing really happens but a long, rambling series of 'adventures' with very little actually connecting them.
Almost every time a challenge comes up, one of the animals sorts it out, and even that happens pretty easily.
It's just a meandering, rambling story, really, and for me, it quickly lost its charm and became quite boring.
- This was a fun and short book. It is an older book, so I'm glad things got right to the point without all the fluff in between. - I really enjoyed the characters, especially the animals. I also liked that the animals came up with solutions to problems, and that they weren't dumb animals. They had personalities and brains. - I liked all the illustrations. They were fun.- This was a good intro into the series.
Actually a 4.5. I liked the book in general with it’s awesome characters. It’s little details are amazing, but there’s one tiny problem I have with it. The plot jumps around a lot. I mean, it’s ok if the author does it a few times, but this is a bit much.
First time reading this. Clever. Very much for young kids IMO.
