https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/7863423-simply-irresistible
Simply Irresistible is book one in the wonderful Lucky Harbor series by Jill Shalvis.
She barely knew her mother and was raised by her Dad. But, her mother unexpectedly passed away and left Maddie one third of an inn in the very small town of Lucky Harbor, Washington.
Maddie sees this as an opportunity for a new life, new town, new job.
So he moved back to his home town of Lucky Harbor and started building things which is what he loved.
Not only will you fall in love with Maddie, but with her two sisters as well.
Do yourself a favor and don’t waste your time reading reviews.
But if you just can’t help yourself, if you simply must  read a review, I’ll give you a little something more.Simply Irresistible is the first book in the Lucky Harbor series and such a great story.
The hero, Jax, is the kind of man that you really could find in Anytown, USA, and the heroine, Maddie, is a real woman.
The kind with curves, flaws and insecurities...
Save yourself the time and trouble of having to kick yourself later for having not read it sooner, and just go buy this book.
LOL)Zosia, Thanks for your review of this, which made me want to read it!After the amazing yet emotionally intense and tumultuous experience of The Bronze Horseman Trilogy, I needed a light and humorous yet-still-touch-me-emotionally kind of romance, set during the Holiday Season.
^o^ This book was off to a great start!Turns out, “Hot Biker Guy” is Jax Cullen, the contractor and master carpenter that Maddie needs to help fix up the inn.I was smiling and laughing A LOT while reading this, and also had many shivers and tingles from the palpable sexual tension and electrifying chemistry between Maddie and Jax.
Loved it!Simply Irresistible is my first experience reading a Jill Shalvis book and it certainly won't be my last!
I'm still baffled by how long it's take me to read one of her books.
Simply Irresistible is a sweet, flirty, feel good romance overflowing with wonderful characters, humor, romance, and a swoonalicious hero that deserves to be called a hero.
But where this book really shined for me was in the complex relationships and the sharp-tongued yet warm-hearted banter that the author created between the three sisters, Maddie, Tara, and Chloe.
Simply Irresistible was an absolutely delightful read.
This feel-good book was exactly what I needed.
Blame the holidays.)It's the mother sister of all "what exactly does he see in her?" stories.One of these days, I'm going to find a book where the hero just straight-up admits that he found the heroine "sexy as hell." I can buy that.
What I can't buy is the hero being intrigued for no apparent reason.
So you'd think...okay, maybe this Maddie chick will do something spectacular to make up for her carelessness of running this guy off the road.1.
So naturally, he picks careless-driving, potato-chip-wearing, ass-falling, klutzy girl.JUST ADMIT ALREADY THAT YOU THOUGHT SHE HAD NICE BOOBS AND YOU WANTED TO TAP THAT.
4.5 "Hot tool belt" Stars! As always when I finish a book I have the same struggle: what to read next. I saw this series, and I know it is quite known by my GR friends, so I decided to start reading it! I am so glad I did!!Simply Irresistible is the first installment of the Lucky Harbor series written by Jill Shalvis. This novel introduces three sisters who have the same mother (Maddie, Tara and Chloe) and how now they have inherited a 'resort' in a little village in Washington. This is the stor
This is the story of Maddie Moore (the middle sister, a woman who has just been fired and also who had an abusive boyfriend, and who decides to give the resort a chance and re-organise everything) and Jax Cullen (the hot biker she meets when she arrives in Lucky Harbor and who happens to be the contractor she just hired to help renew the house).
“Oh, my God.”“She’s starting to repeat herself,” Chloe said to Tara, who took her turn at the window.“Oh, sugar.” Tara took her time looking him over.
haha I cannot wait to read Tara and Chloe's stories (which I am sure will be with Ford and Sawyer, yaaaay!!!).
When news arrives that her recently deceased mother has left an inn to Maddie and her two half-sisters she can’t imagine better timing for starting over.
However, she’s sworn off men and she’s only going to be in town for a few weeks anyway so she definitely doesn’t need any complications.
This one ended up being just okay for me, but let me ‘splain myself and you might find my problems aren’t going to be anything that would deter your enjoyment.I loved the idea of these three sisters who hadn’t grown up together/didn’t really know each other getting thrown together as their mother’s last wish and taking over the inn.
4 Irresistible Stars.  Maddie broke up with her boyfriend and lost her job in a short amount of time. So without anything tying her to LA, she goes to Lucky Harbor to meet with her sisters and try to re-open the Inn their mother left them when she died. That’s when she meets Jax, the sexy contractor she hired to fix the Inn and things got well, heated. And as they say, never mix pleasures with business… I’ve never read anything from Jill Shalvis before, but I can definitely say that I will read
Maddie broke up with her boyfriend and lost her job in a short amount of time.
So without anything tying her to LA, she goes to Lucky Harbor to meet with her sisters and try to re-open the Inn their mother left them when she died.
Characters Development:  I loved Jax. He’s broody, sexy, sweet and alpha and basically everything we want in a hero.
Maddie surprisingly was very little annoying, yeah, she was stubborn sometimes but she was fierce and loyal and I liked her.
(hide spoiler)]Love Triangle:  (view spoiler)[No.
(hide spoiler)]Cheating:  (view spoiler)[No.
(hide spoiler)]HEA: 	(view spoiler)[Yes.
Holy tool belt!
What a wonderful read.
My eyes were glazed and I had a stupid grin on my face the whole time reading this book.
A very HOT Jax Cullen would do that to you.
Then again so will Ford or Sawyer.
Maddie the Mouse kinda reminds me a bit of Sandra Bullock in 'While You Were Sleeping'.
Maddie, Tara and Chloe together were a lethal combination, they just cracked me up.Simply put, I loved this book.
Heading out to Tara's story now.
And I'm sure the said stupid grin is already on my face.
4 Cute StarsI honestly came to love this series from the first book but I really can't review all these books... Okay I can but I'm kind of bored. So I'll just pick some of my favorite Phoebe-isms for this review.  Smile...it makes people wonder what you're up to.Experience is something you get… after you need it.Learn from the mistakes of others you won't have time to make them all yourself.Obeying the rules might be smart, but it's not as nearly as much fun.
Washington State Pacific Coastline ★★★★ Wonderful book and just what I needed right now after reading about the murder of -- not one -- but two beloved characters in another series. Ms. Shalvis has long been a favorite author, and she knocks it out of the ball park with this one, a story of three sisters who inherit an inn. With plenty of humor and hilarity; frustration, fights, fears, and tears; secrets and sizzling sex.But, it is not all that chick-lit-ish. It’s a romance! Both Maggie and Jax
Jax's superpower is reading Maggie's mind:She should have chosen sex.
Note to self: always choose sex over physical labor!"It's not too late," he said very softly.I'll save the scene about her thoughts while she's checking out Jax's tush in the attic for you to discover for yourself.Plus, if I haven’t missed the boat, I think his “brothers” feature in the rest of the series, to match up with her sisters.
Speaking of which, if the first in the Lucky Harbor series is this good, I can only hope the rest can follow suit.
4 Simply Beautiful STARSThis one was a true gem!! I asked for a really sweet, feel good read and this is exactly what I got - Thank you, Alice! And I also discovered another author to fangirl over and another series (groan – but I love it) to devour.  Jax Cullen and Mandy Moore were great, fun loving characters and the secondary characters were just as appealing. Their story is adorable, romantic and very funny (I couldn't stop myself from laughing in public while reading this)! The dialogue, th
4 Simply Beautiful STARSThis one was a true gem!!
I asked for a really sweet, feel good read and this is exactly what I got - Thank you, Alice!
And I also discovered another author to fangirl over and another series (groan – but I love it) to devour.
Jax Cullen and Mandy Moore were great, fun loving characters and the secondary characters were just as appealing.
Their story is adorable, romantic and very funny (I couldn't stop myself from laughing in public while reading this)!
The dialogue, the witty and sarcastic banter, the laughs, the chemistry and the sisterhood just got me.
I'd rate it 4.5.
I'll be reading the next for sure.
I didn't fully buy the relationship conflict that came near the end, but the rest of it was funny, hot, and had such likable characters.
I'm a sucker for small town romances too.
Jax was serious hero candy, and I liked Maddie quite a bit!
When Jax and Maddie meet it sizzles from the start.
This is a light hearted story with some really funny and hot scenes makes this a great beach read kind of book, but there is a nice Christmas theme so a relaxing winter read works too.
Why is the protagonist so obsessed with her love interest's henley (a long sleeved t-shirt) that she mentions specifically that he's wearing a henley at least four times?
Was it not sexy enough that he is physically perfect, but he also has to be a contractor (who makes all the furniture and stained glass in his homes himself, by hand) and a lawyer and a bartender and THE MAYOR of the effing town and part owner of most businesses?
"She felt a tug in that place below her belly button.
The love interest is also the mayor.
You can read her review here.*I generally tend to love small town romances, but I had a lot of trouble connecting with the characters in Simply Irresistible and that mostly ruined my enjoyment of the story.
I would have preferred someone a little bit more human for a hero.Chloe and Tara seem a lot more interesting than Maddie and Ford and Sawyer more than Jax so I'll definitely be continuing this series and reading their respective books.
Overall, Simply Irresistible is a cute yet forgettable read, but the side characters intrigue me enough that I won't be giving up on the series just yet.
As time passes they bond as well, and she wants them to finally be a family.Jax - He's got so many personas it's hard to remember them all XD he's a biker hot guy, bartender, construction worker, lawyer and mayor (I think I forgot something, but hell even this is enough) He's charismatic, loved him with Maddy, every scene was bursting with chemistry :) He knows she's been hurt in the past, and even though she constantly insists they don't start anything, he's very persistent (heheh, go Jax!), and soon even he changes his mind about long-term relationships.Overall - It was a great read, very funny with a great romance, nothing serious or angsty about it, just pure romantic writing.

Just having gotten out of an abusive relationship and lost her job, Maddie is making her way to the small Washington town of Lucky Harbor where her deceased mother's inn lies.
Nevertheless, I found that Maddie, with her attitude of trying to be oh-so-brave, still brought something new to the table as far as contemporary heroines go and, all the more, won my heart.What truly makes the title of this utterly fitting, though, is Jax Cullen.
Although the romance begins straight off the bat with a whopping dose of attraction, the reason I enjoyed it so much is because Jax and Maddie take time to still get to know one another.
As I often say, I'm not a writer or professional reviewer, but I know what I like. This series is light and easy to read. It's very enjoyable for me. This first book is a great start to the series and sets up the cast of characters very well. I love when a story takes place in a town like the one Jill Shalvis has created for this series. It's a town I can connect with and picture easily in my mind. It's a place I'd love to be able to visit. The characters are the same way. Great book!
4 -5 stars – Contemporary Romance
4 ½-5 stars – Contemporary Romance
The book simply captured me from the very first page and I was dying to see the ending result of Jax and Maddie's relationship.
After losing her job and finally breaking up with her ex-boyfriend, Maddie decides to start a new beginning in this town and meet up with her two step-siblings to inherit the inn that her mother, Phoebe Traeger, left behind.
Anyway, while going for a walk in town, she ends up meeting Jax again in front of a bar called Love Shack, hah!
I mean, Jax was sweet, sexy, and very loving towards Maddie.
Simply Irresistible is the first in the Lucky Harbor series.
Maddie who has recently lost her job and dumped her abusive boyfriend makes her way to Lucky Harbor where her flighty mother(she wasn't closed with her and was raised by her father) and her two-half sisters have inherited a resort.
Maddie is sweet and the hero of the book Jax, man he is the best hero ever.
The romance between Maddie and Jax is so sweet.
I can't tell you how much I loved this book.
It was sweet, fun and lovable.
Loved this. What a sweet story. Looking forward to more from this series.
While they haven't seen each other in 5 years, they have to go back to Lucky Harbor to settle what they will do with the Inn. But once together they realize their lives were not as good as they thought they were and that what they craved the most was to be a family.So what's not to love about a book which makes as remember the importance of family and let us read an amazing romance in between?
This is definitely a must read for romance readers.
My first visit to Lucky Harbor and I am looking forward to get to know the residents.Maddie moves to Lucky Harbor to start a new life, meet her two sisters and run the Inn their mother left them.On the way there she nearly runs a hot biker off the road enter Jax Cullen HOT, SEXY and he has the BIGGEST HEART. A heart warming story I love Maddie & Jax together. I will definitely be reading the rest of the Lucky Harbor series.
Nuestra reseña en A la cama con... un libro
That is what this book did to me.
Made me feel it all.
Made me feel it all.
It was sweet and gentle.
Difficult and easy.
I fell right in love with the hero, Jax. Bless his heart.
He was strong and kind and all kinds of wonderful.
The heroine Maddie was resilient and clumsy but bursting with love and trust.
The two of them together made me sigh and appreciate the art of falling in love.
I'm hooked on all the people of Lucky Harbor and will be devouring every book in this series.
Now I will admit that I had never read any of Jill Shalvis’ books before and it was just luck that I happened to stumble upon Jill Shalvis’ “Lucky Harbor” series, with the first book in the series being called “Simply Irresistible!” This book was truly one of a kind when it comes to contemporary romance and I had enjoyed it every second of the way!Maddie Moore’s life was less than perfect since she had lost her job and her boyfriend all at once after having a particularly horrible day.
More accurate, I LOVED the hero Jax. He shoots up to probably third in my top ten.
Which I'm still developing btw, so if any of you out there have heroes you want me to add, send them my way!!!Maddie is arriving to a small town in Washington to take over an inn that her recently deceased mother has left her and her two half sisters, when she almost runs Jax, our fab hero on a motorcycle, off the road.
Every stinkin time Maddie needed him and she didn't even know it, Jax was there.
This is the first book in a new Trilogy by Shalvis about three sisters who inherit a seaside resort from their free-spirited mother.
This book grabbed me from the first page and I fell in love with Lucky Harbor and it's characters.
Maddie and her two half sisters have not spent much time together, but now they are meeting in Lucky Harbor, Washington to claim the inheritance left by their mother.
I liked how he is so supportive of Maddie and of course how he is so desirous of her..he smolders and can't keep his hands off her..lol I laughed a lot reading this book.
Simply Irresistible is a story of sisters, love, and friendship.
