https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/30843.The_Great_Indian_Novel
And that, I suppose, completes my Goodreads annual reading challenge.Well, the moment I felt I should write a long review for this book has passed (besides the fact that no one read the one lengthy review I've written till date), so I'll spare the reader who has incidentally stumbled upon this one.'The Great Indian Novel', Shashi Tharoor's debut work of fiction, is essentially a retelling of the Indian epic Mahabharata, but it falls in the realm of political satire by drawing parallels with major events in India's political history during the freedom movement as well as in the post-independence era.First up, I'd like to applaud the author for deciding to reinterpret & present Indian history in a different light and his courage (yes, in a country where many people seem to lack a sense of humour when it comes to 'culture') in assuming an irreverent attitude towards some of India's greatest political leaders throughout the narrative.
How on earth can one read Shashi Tharoor?" asked Pongalswamy scornfully.
What is wrong in reading Shashi Tharoor?" I retorted."Oh!
And even if those were true, how does it matter in enjoying a book?""Anyway, what is the idiotic looking narcissistic book about?""Well, this book sort of marries The Mahabharata (probably the greatest book ever written) and Indian polity during the pre and post independence.
By the way, who do you think would be Dhritarashtra and Pandu in this book?""Your description doesn't motivate me to read the book.
Must have painted Nehru and Gandhi to be the heroes.
He drew the parallel between Dhritarashtra and Nehru.

In his own words: ‘This story, like that of our country, is a story of betrayed expectations, yours as much as our characters.
Ambika and Ambalika were each enough for any King with ripe rounded breasts to weigh upon a man and skins of burnished gold to set him alight , bodies long enough to envelop a monarch and full hips to invite him into them together, they drove Vichitravirya into a fatally priapic state.
Democracy, Ganpathi, is perhaps the most arrogant of all forms of government, because only democrats presume to represent an entire people: monarchs and oligarchs have no such pretensions.
I only give 5's to books I'm certain I will want to read again.
While this is an excellent read, it does require an investment of time so I probably won't be able to revisit it.Anyway, it sat on my TBR shelf for nearly 20 years and I am so glad I held on to it!This story is based on the Mahabaratha, a classic epic of Indian mythology , and is quite a journey: Intense, heartbreaking, beautiful, hilarious.
Oh and there's the bit where our picaresque narrator intones, "Rule Brittania, Brittania waive the rules!")This book is listed as one of the 1001 Books to Read Before You Die, and I attest that it deserves its place there.
It's never that easy to be a kingAnd rule a populace;For popularity's a fickle thing Which might easily gobble us.A king must always make it clearThat in his realm he's boss;Nobody else, though near and dear,May inflict on him a loss.A king must always show his mightEven 'gainst kith and kin;It doesn't matter if he's rightBut he must be seen to win.There's not much point in being strongIf no one sees your strength;A tiger shows power all alongHis striped and muscular length.Any weakness must be concealedAs a tortoise hides his head;A king must never be revealedQuaking under his bed.Stealth and discretion are the meansTo employ in making plans;A clever king, though, never leansIn trust on another man's.Pretend!
The author has taken two great stories, combined them and spoiled them.
If you know Mahabharatha and the history of Indian independence, there is nothing new you will learn in this book.
If you don't, you won't understand this book.
Reimagining our national leaders as characters from the epic is a great idea.
But in this book, it has been poorly executed.
"The difficulty of being good", by Gurcharan Das does a better job with a similar concept.But that is not my major objection with the book.
Maybe this book didn't age well.
3.5/5
Very funny, very clever, scathing and intricate, this irreverent mash-up of the Mahabharata with the Indian Independence Movement may not be the Great Indian Novel, but it's certainly a great Indian novel.
The satire is such that discerning, aware Indians would appreciate the novel a lot more than non-Indians (their 5-star ratings not withstanding).
I saw it as a reflection of a rather unclean cast of mind.It would appear from this novel that Indian royalty’s paternity is more often a subject of opinion rather than of fact.
Affairs in this novel, post and pre marriage, are as common as dal-chawal elsewhere.In summary, this is certainly a book to read.
I find from the reviews on Goodreads some Indian readers haven’t understood the intent of the book, let alone its contents or the satire.
Oh and so I come to the tale’s endOr a wistful beginning of a nation’s mendOr perhaps it’s just wish
Although I'm not religious, I love books that draw on religious symbolism and allusion.
love it to death).
So, I really enjoyed the fact that The Great Indian Novel is based on the Mahabharata.
Since I know hardly anything ABOUT the Mahabharata, I'm sure a lot of the allegory was lost on me.
And Tharoor pulls off something I imagine is pretty difficult...he presents Gandhi as a human being with flaws, even pokes light fun at him, but all in the spirit of admiration and love.
If you like to get your history in fiction form, this is also a great intro to the Indian independence movement.
The recast can actually be said to flow both ways, and the story can be seen as a re-playing out of the drama of Mahabharata in the times of our freedom struggle with the Indian leadership of the time as the dramatis-personae.Narrated by a cantankerous Ved Vyas to a young (So we are told) Ganesh (Lord of Luck in Hindu mythology) just as the original Mahabharata is said to have been (The original author was rather less blasphemous I would imagine!), TGIN gives a most human flesh to mythical personalities and revered leaders alike.
A great sweeping novel that weaves the mythic characters and events of the Mahabharata into the 20th century Indian political scene.
It is frequently more of a political commentary than a novel.
Tharoor says at the very beginning, as a sort of disclaimer, that the book is called The Great Indian Novel because it is based on the Mahabharata, which literally translated means "great India." He does not wish to imply that it is a "great" work, and the reader might find it is not necessarily all that Indian, and maybe not much of novel.
In 600 pages, The Great Indian Novel superimposes the modern Indian history on the great epic Mahabharata with considerable success.
Ingeniously fleshing out Indian leaders from the multitude of options that Mahabharata offers, Shashi Tharoor’s final product is a witty, funny, exciting and a somewhat contrived retelling that keeps you entertained for the most part.
Though it is impossible to flawlessly render Mahabharata with all its glory in a contemporary context, a stricter editing would’ve made this air-tight to any criticism of inducing boredom.
The Great Indian Novel can only be enjoyed if you are well aware of India’s history between 1890 & 1980 and Mahabharata.
I read the Mahabharata by C Rajagopalachari a long time back and it was tough in certain places for me to follow Mr Tharoor with his characters.
However it is a work of creative genius and I have to give Tharoor credit for the same.
My favourite character in the book was Karna played by Jinnah.
Being a romantic it was tough for me to digest the author's brutal and truthful treatment of certain characters.
Enjoyed the book and to be honest however i skipped a bit of the deviations from prose he did.
For my generation, fed on Batman's savior tactics and deprived of Yudhistra's innate righteousness, texts such as these bring back the revered concept of Dharma. The last chapter, where Tharoor philosophizes on righteousness with an image of heaven and hell gleaming in the background, truly captures the essence of The Mahabharta or The Great Indian Novel. If you want to know about Gandhiji's ascetic lifestyle or about Nehru's failure translating Fabian principles into action, turn to this book. For TharoorWhat passion, what ardourresplendent with glamourThis Indian possess, whose one leg rests in India,while the other in Geneva digresses.
This satirical history of pre and post independence India, narrated with characters and events of the ageless epic, Mahabharata, is a great attempt by Shashi Tharoor. The writing, both the prose and the verse, is so fluid the pages turn quite fast. Barring certain parallels that feel forced, and some tedious philosophical discourse, this book is an enjoyable read, especially for those who have read their Mahabharata and know the modern political history of India.
The most witty and entertaining book I've read this year. It's smartly written, the satire is spot-on, and the feeling at the end of the novel is not unlike that of getting up from a highly satisfying sadya (feast).
Couldn't go on after Page 60. I thought this would be a really good follow-on to Rushdie's Enchantress of Florence, but was disappointed...
Thoroughly enjoyed it. The rather wild parallels, the masterful language, the totally irreverent tone and the lovely yarn. I highly recommend it to anyone who loves to read.
I find myself incapable of writing even a short review after reading this book, but nonetheless, won't shy away in stating that Tharoor is a master storyteller.
However, among all this strangeness of the characters, Mr. Tharoor does a wonderful job of narrating the real struggles for the Indian Freedom from British, what that 'Freedom' meant for the millions of Indians and how, when that 'Freedom' was subjugated in mid-seventies, 'passive' Indian voter taught a lesson to the subjugators (only to return them to power 2 years later!).
(Vyasa) is narrating how complex the Indian history and the workings of Indian society are - "And as so often in Indian life, Ganapathi, indeed as so often in this story, the really important issues were worked out not in action but through discourse.
Both litigation and cricket are slow, complex and costly; both involve far more people than need to be active at any given point in the process; both call for skill, strength and guile in varying combinations at different times; both benefit from more breaks in the action than spectators consider necessary; both occur at the expense of, and often disrupt, more productive economic activity; and both frequently meander to conclusions, punctuated by appeals that satisfy none of the participants.
introducing Morarji Desai's godman Godmen are India's major export of the last two decades, offering manna and mysticism to an assortment of foreign seekers in need of them.
(If religion is the opium of the Indian people, Ganapathi, then godmen are God's little chillums.)
If anything, the second half is a let-down though - with the inevitable death of Gandhiji shortly after independence, the book loses steam just as the Congress Party did, and we find ourself reading with rather less interest.
On the other hand, he pulls no punches for the wrongs committed by the members of the party he is now a part of, which stands to his (and their) credit.In the end, one is left with a slightly wistful smile, wondering if the book would read differently were it to be written now, nearly 30 years after first publication, with so much water having passed under the bridge.
she began listing down about forty scandals, over-liberalism and his disapproval towards colonialism.
which was rather funny, because i'm scandalous, over liberal and disapproving towards colonialism too.
it already boasted greatness, nationalism and a damn good story from the moment i ('i rue this day,' my mum had said) clapped eyes on the book.
well.then i read it - and i kept thinking, hell, this is true bloody wit.
as a story?
hell, it would provide you a full days worth of non stop reading (optional break for chai and biscuit), and still have enough left over so you keep thinking of it the next day.
Fantastic. With my limited understanding of early politics of Independent India, I'm not sure how much of this is fabricated. But, from what I do know, this novel read more like a history lesson our Gandhi-Nehru department of education never sanctioned. It took me a while to get through because I compulsively checked the real characters, but what a great use of my time! It's a pity Tharoor quit his non aligned UN job and sullied himself with the same politics he sends up so brilliantly in this novel.
If someone protests against the government, they cannot simply go and implement emergency instead of trying to solve the issue.This book is nice read if you are interested in politics and know something about the period the novel describes so that you can relate the things well as nothing was straight forward in it.
Also the power struggle between Morarji Desai and Indira Gandhi before congress decided on Ms. Gandhi as president was not captured very well.I would suggest this book to those who want to read some deeper things about the freedom struggle and politics of those periods if you do not know more than what taught at the schools.
The novel (2014 edition) which stands at 600 pages explores the major political events in the Indian history starting from the early years of freedom struggle (of the century) up until the events that happened in the late 70s that include the emergency period.I liked the way the story is narrated.
Since I am already aware of most of the events in Mahabharata, there is a sense of excitement to see which character from the epic gets assigned to whom from the political history and Shashi Tharoor sir does give reasonable explanation behind this assignment.
But the real topic has been so thinly disguised - quite deliberately - that it comes across as a work of satire, humour and history.
And when this humour comes combined with satire - a brutally blunt, straightforward satirical approach, it elevates the book into a work of art; a best-in-class item; a top-notch book worth a read by every Indian.The story is the story of Mother India from around 1900 AD till around 1980, from the struggle for India's Independence, going on to the early years of self-rule, the disillusionment with Nehruvianism, the response of various characters, the wars, the Indira Gandhi Years etc.
This is one book that is meant only for Indians: non-Indians would very likely not be able to make much sense out of it!Read More : https://reflectionsvvk.blogspot.in/20...
