https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/760326.Famine
Most Irish Americans I know think of the Famine this way: Bloody British.I think of the Famine this way: the family dog may have eaten your dead ancestors. Simpler, perhaps, but a lot more visceral.O'Flaherty was not the first Irish writer to note how quiet the Irish countryside got in 1849, but he used it to best effect.
I first heard about this book when I was in Ireland and visited several of the memorials and exhibits that have been created to honor the memories of the people who died as a result of the potato blight that struck Ireland in 1845 and 1846.
But having Irish ancestors on both sides of our family who immigrated from Ireland around the time of the famine, this book was compelling if for no other reason than to shed a little light on why they came.
It was not just Ireland that had the potato blight – it affected the U.S. and Europe, too.
The actual story of the Kilmartins in this saga is essentially molded to reflect the events of the times they lived through, and all of the possible ills that the famine brought were reflected in their behavior through the author’s plotting.
There have been some excellent studies of the Irish famine written over the years, but this author’s setting within a fictional family makes it easy for the average reader to understand the various forces at play.
Was für ein Roman!
O' Flaherty ist ein Meister der Erzählkunst und versteht es in beeindruckender wie gnadenloser Weise, die entsetzlichen Folgen der Kartoffelpest Mitte des 19.
Für jedermann, der sich für dieses irische Schicksal interessiert, bietet der Roman einen ausgezeichneten Einstieg.
Anschaulicher können Elend, Hunger, Hoffnungslosigkeit und Tod nicht beschrieben werden, so auch die Verwandlung von Mensch und Tier in scheinbar abgestumpfte und vom Überlebenstrieb zu widerlichen Handlungen gezwungene Wesen.
- Natürlich ist dies ein düsterer Roman, der nachdenklich und traurig stimmt.
Aber der schleichende und grausame Tod von einer Million Menschen sollte dies auch!
Although this book isn't as well written as some of my other favorite Irish writers (Frank O'Conner, Brendan Behan, Sean O'Faolain), it is the only novel I have read about a family's experience of the potato famine. It was written well enough to keep me reading it almost straight through - very suspenseful and sad.
Part history lesson, part gripping fiction. Rips your heart out slowly until you find yourself bawling on the floor in a corner in the dark.
I had to read this for my high school Irish Lit class.
Firstly, it is a pet peeve of mine when there are so many characters that a reader has to make a chart of some kind to keep track of them.
You do the work." Also, on the subject of characters and pet peeves, the author made a two page description for each character as each one was introduced for the first time, mostly having to do with appearances.
While appearances are very important to characters, in most cases and not all, behavior is ten times more essential.
O'Flaherty set himself an intricate task because Famine isn't a simple kind of historical undertaking.
It doesn't merely make use of a period everyone knows well (or thinks is well known).
Rather, O'Flaherty has to educate at the same time as he creates his characters and setting.
As the novel progresses, we want to know who will live, who will die, will Michael escape, what justices and injustices will emerge.
O'Flaherty shows some of the horrors of the starvation, but he does not seek to crush a reader with it.
He wants to make many things known, and he succeeds.
I am ashamed to admit that I gave up on this book after 150 pages or so.
Maybe it wasn't the book's fault and and I was just too distracted by other things to focus on it properly.
It was a sad and atmospheric story about life in Ireland during the potato famine, which in tone and content somehow reminded me of The Grapes of Wrath.
The author seemed more concerned with the bigger picture -- the plot, the characters, the history -- than with the sentence-by-sentence, paragraph-by-paragraph details of the writing.
I'll finish it someday and then finish this review with a final verdict on whether or not I liked the book.
This has to be one of the most, heart rendering books that I have ever read, so awful, a dreadful period in the history of the Irish State, so many having lost their lives and all because of bureaucracy and political ineptitude.Beautifully crafted, it captures vividly those dark days. The reader is sucked into an abyss of horror, the tangible damp smell of rotting potatoes prevails throughout.
Brilliant & harrowing... A must-read for people who love novels about accurate Irish history!
fantastic read
O'Flaherty brings the Great Irish Famine vividly to life... which is, of course, rather depressing. Nevertheless, I agree that Mary Kilmartin (the heroine) is one of the great creations of 20th-century Irish fiction.
Powerful novel about how the first two years of the Irish famine affected a famine in rural Co. Galway.
Such evil that people do to one another in the name of religion, politics and custom! Took this off my SOUB but I think I must have read it years ago because I had such a visceral reaction to it. I hope it's the only one of its kind but I think now I've read all I need to about that period of Irish history.
And you wondered why a lovely place like Ireland was so scary?
Government policy clearly helped set the stage for the famine to take a hard toll on the Irish people, making them vulnerable and exacerbating the famine's effect.
(Bad government action!) And yet, when it came time for the government to step in and help the people, really doing some good, it did nothing.
The story of a family during the Irish Great Hunger.
Liam O'Flaherty shows with pure honesty how horrendous their plight was, how hunger made them desperate and mad for some and there is no judgement here.
The characters are endearing and try to stand up for their right or try to simply find a way to survive the successive blights, which little by little, became just impossible.
To read this story is to remember or simply to know.
Set in Ireland during the Great Famine in the 1840's, it is a family saga featuring the Kilmartins. The writing style is very different from most books I read, perhaps because it was written in the last century (1970's!).The 2 star rating may increase as I get further into the book.4/6/09 - this book is still on my bedside table, although it at the bottom. More interesting books just keep coming along.
I found this book about a family in the Irish famine to be a very interesting view into the lives of those back then. I found this book a little hard to get into, certainly not one I couldn't put down, but I did like it. Of course, it is a little depressing, but what can you expect from a book about the famine?
This is not the sort of book one enjoys reading. But it is the sort that brings tears to your eyes and a sense of grief.The tragedy of a family and those around them shows the tragedy of an entire nation.
Slow for me to get into, but engaging. A broad survey of the lives of many different people in the Black Valley. It vividly portrays both the helplessness and the horror of the famine that strikes them.
Fantastic book about the Irish Potato Famine. Amazingly written. Tragic. Made me hate the British for weeks afterwards
Wow...and we think we have it tough sometimes. Reading this book will make you appreciate living in America. I can't imagine suffering through the Irish Potato Famine.
One of the 10 best books I have ever read. Excellent.
Among the best fictional renditions of the Famine.
Returning from a tour of Ireland with a wonderful guide I felt the need to read more about the famine. This book filled that need and left a haunting presence of the Famine.
Maybe I will finish this later. The story is interesting, the author well known. Something about the style of writing I find hard to stick with.
Very sad story but shows the tough life and horrific living conditions of the famine Irish.
