https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/50832.Orphans_of_the_Sky
Lord of the Flies meets Lost in Space.
Not one of Heinlein's masterpieces but also not bad, very imaginative and creative.
At it's best it is an interesting religious and political allegory, at worst it is campy pulp.
But not bad.
This began as a couple of novelettes in the early 40s and then put together in book form and published as a novel in 1963, so this was at least one of his earliest ideas.
Like many Heinlein novels, there is inherent and almost casual violence and, beginning to be disturbing, an ongoing theme of cannibalism.
Also an early example of polygamy, Heinlein was not a traditionalist.
For excitement, the normal people battle the mutant Muties -- but the leader of the Muties, the two-headed Joe-Jim, actually has rather more of a clue about what's really going on.Love the artwork, lol!I wouldn't recommend that anyone go out of their way to read this story, but if you like old-fashioned SF and Heinlein's stories from the period when they were only semi-weird, this is a fun and quick read.
Joe-Jim's arguments with himself are one of the highlights.Written in 1940s + backwards society on the spaceship = women are pretty much nonexistent in the story, and when they do show up they're treated like servants (in one scene, a mouthy woman gets slapped down).
According to these myths, the Ship was built by "Jordan".
Once, there had been a Golden Age, when the ship was ruled by "Jordan's Captain", the guardian of the sacred "Plan".
Now the Ship is moving aimlessly among the Stars.
Educated people, who live in the middle of the Ship, scoff at all this - though they still say "Huff!" when they want to swear.
It's a metaphor for the path towards spiritual enlightenment.
And what are Stars, anyway?
Clearly another metaphor or symbol.But, by accident, the hero finds himself near the outside, in a lawless territory inhabited by mutant pariahs.
It's a good thing feminism fixed all the world's problems or who KNOWS what kind of cover we'd have.)I picked this up second-hand (Mayflower-Dell paperback, June 1965), curious to read some more Heinlein in the wake of having recently finished Jo Walton's Among Others.
Thus far the only Heinlein I'd read consisted of the bowdlerized edition of Stranger in a Strange Land, picked up from my local library when I was 14 on the recommendation of one of the first people I Knew From the Internet.
It is also one of the earliest depictions of a 'generation ship' on a mission to colonize far worlds.There is also a central philosophical theme, a staple in Heinlein, this time concerning the fact that the crew have grown exceedingly detached from reality, thanks to the long voyage.
However, it's not an unrealistic portrayal, and it would hardly have made sense to depict a violent, ignorant society as having modern, egalitarian social mores.Heinlein could have tried to make some stronger female characters living under this repressive structure; or alternately, used this as another opportunity to indulge in satire, but instead, we get a bit of the old sci fi boys' club.
What follows is more than one mutiny and betrayal, as Hugh tries to make everyone understand that the Ship is not only moving, but that it's about to arrive at its destination.Okay, Heinlein's rocket science, as usual, holds up much better than his biology, and there aren't even any Heinleinian women here, just "wives" who are little more than chattel and don't have a single line of dialog.
Second Heinlein collection in this book (the first being  The Man Who Sold the Moon ). Now we have two related 1940s novellae fixed-up into a single novel in the 1960s. Oh, science fiction publishing, you are so fun.Orphans of the Sky is one of the ur–generation ship tales. Heinlein immediately seizes on the possibility that something could go so disastrously wrong during the voyage such that the entire crew forgets it is on a ship. For all intents and purposes, the Ship is now the universe. Any
As far as the writing goes, it is pretty much what I expect from Heinlein now—a lot of conversation, a lot of scientific speculation and libertarianism disguised as the desire for open scientific inquiry.The plot is mediocre.
Heinlein’s sexism in The Man Who Sold the Moon is problematic, sure, but mostly for its erasure of women—he does at least feature a single woman scientist, even if she is objectified.
But in Orphans of the Sky, women play a far smaller and worse role.
Because there’s nothing like trivializing domestic abuse, amirite?If you’re a diehard Heinlein completist (I’m not) or you have a particular fascination with the subgenre of generation ships (I don’t), you should probably read this.
Some clever ideas, esp. re' 'scientists' as priests, but too much is undeveloped. And the misogyny is completely gratuitous - when we finally briefly meet them, we learn that women are quite literally chattel, generally not even allowed to keep their own names. (The GR default cover is absolute nonsense on several levels.) I do like Hugh, though, idealistic, intelligent, curious. Clearly this was written for teen boys, the primary audience for SF back in the day.
The story centers on brave and clever men who start to regain this knowledge, stomping a foot on a deck plate and insisting like a similar brave man, "But still, it moves!"Heinlein's skill at envisioning future cultures emerging out of unusual circumstances is brought to a new height in Orphans.
His talent for creating unforgettable characters is only aided by generations of drifting in space being bombarded by radiation as the crew has lost the knowledge to upkeep the radiation shielding.
Most of his stories have settings that prevent his creating two-headed, knife-wielding philosophers, but this isn't even among the stranger elements of Orphans.
Time now for another slice of classic science fiction - this time from the pen of Robert Heinlein.
They are absolutely brilliant and it got me thinking, You see as part of the essay there was listed each year the top most influential and as the title describes defining.
However once you accept these flaws I think it adds to the appeal of the book.The second aspect is that of the generation starship - no I am not giving spoilers as its is clearly stated on the back of the edition I was reading.
Noor ja vihane Heinlein paneb hästi ja hoogsalt.
Ei pea vastu ja toon siinkohal ära ühe lõigu"Üks usutaganejast teadlane, üks röövitud teadlane, üks juhm talumees, üks kahepäine koletis ja üks õunasuuruse ajuga debiilik; viis nuga, kui Joe-Jimi ühe eest lugeda; viis aju, kui Joe-Jimi kahe eest lugeda ja Bobot üldse mitte arvestada; viis aju ja viis nuga, et pea peale pöörata kogu kultuur."Kuid tegemist pole vaid hoogsa märuliga, kuna taustal kumab ka sügavam mõte, mis pisut analoogne Lapikmaa omaga.
Täpsemalt üritab Heinlein nutika-lihtsustatud näide varal visualiseerida kuidas nii religioosne kui materjalistlik vaade mingile maailmale võivad olla üheaegselt vildakad, kui vaadeldakse kõike liiga kitsast punktist.
Because this sentence exists "the other wife, the unnamed one, kept out of his sight after losing a tooth, quite suddenly"
La società è divisa tra umani e mutanti, i nati deformi in seguito alle radiazioni provenienti dall'esterno, fazioni in lotta nella reciproca ignoranza.
Hugh invece è l'umano che scoprirà la verità e la meraviglia dello spazio esterno, lottando per diffondere la sua scoperta e guadagnandosi l'accusa di eresia.La vita all'interno della Nave è resa perfettamente, claustrofobica come le menti degli abitanti, ed è affascinante la suddivisione in livelli a diversa gravità, fino alla gravità zero che segna il confine con l'ignoto, l'Universo.Non assegno cinque stelline per due motivi.
I am always of two minds about Heinlein. He writes clear, easy to follow prose. And he is better at drawing an engaging character than his peers in the classic age of SF, like Asimov and Clarke; One need only think of Mycroft Holmes and Mannie from  The Moon is a Harsh Mistress  to understand what I am saying. And his ideas are pretty good too. Unlike most world-builders, he doesn't get too carried away. And I love the way that he just mentions a technology, and doesn't harp on its origin or exa
And he is better at drawing an engaging character than his peers in the classic age of SF, like Asimov and Clarke; One need only think of Mycroft Holmes and Mannie from 
Or thinking that the way to win a woman's heart is to "mind meld" with her as she dances erotically, so she can understand why men like women so much.
I especially like how Heinlein took the concept of isolation, and how that caused the humans to create a religion to explain life.
In the first novella, the only mention of a woman is Hugh's (the main character) aunt, who looks up when he returns home but says nothing "as is fitting a woman." Her only action in the story is to bring him and his uncle dinner.
The main character, after improving his station in life post uprising chooses two wives.
As far as the boy story.
It was just okay, there was a little too much Dues Ex Machina in the way certain characters saw the light and changed sides, or not, etc.
After a venture to low weight decks, where he's endangered by a mutie attack, we find the humans living in farms on the high weight decks, and he hears the religious text on the Mutiny and is inducted into the ranks of the priestly scientists.It's when he ends up a prisoner among the muties that he learns much of what the astute reader has pieced together earlier.
The tale involves a two-headed mutant, lots of books, a violent war, the question of whether what Hugh sees is real, the Converter in duplicate, and more.fun but very spoilery fact: (view spoiler)[In a later Heinlein work, characters mention that the ship was traced.
They found a surviving human colony on the moon, and a completely dead ship.
A classic about the degraded, isolated culture of a multi-generation starship population that's forgotten it's origins and fallen into ignorance. Orphans of The Sky is even better than I remembered it from first reading decades ago. The story follows Hugh Hoyland as he discovers evidence of their origin and reality in the dangerous, low gravity upper decks ruled by muties (mutants and mutineers).
1977 grade A1995 grade A-2016 grade B+/A-Failed generation ships were a pretty common theme in early hard SciFi. In fact, some publishers would give an idea to multiple authors and ask for each to write their own interpretation.
I read them long before I started keeping records and would like to read them again.In this story, the crew structure has failed for some reason and, after many many generations, degenerated into a basically feudal society while the unfailing mega-ship drifts on.
The story is about one human who manages to find the controls and figure out the truth.The book is short, and took less than a day to read.
No need to summarize it in detail as this is a well known enough novel, but the idea of creating a world that has become lost in time and space is almost like a writers playground.
Anything is possible, and Heinlein fills his ship with a myriad of intriguing ideas.Heinlein has this way of putting forth interesting bits of technology, but then letting it fade into the background.
There is no wasted time describing how everything works and to me that's his greatest strength.
You just accept the worlds he places you in, even if they might not be technologically possible.
However, the two appearances of women in the plot were so irrelevant and so misogynist (from the author more than the characters) that an editor might as well cut them out and change the genders of various main characters.
This one dude gets picked out at the beginning of the story for being exceptionally intelligent, so they raise his rank rather than have him threaten the establishment.
The idea that some women might do the same is apparently not a figment of Heinlein's imagination, and neither is putting any women in the outcast population, or making the women other than "useless".
This book - like many of Heinlein's books - really blew my mind as a kid. Very trippy concept - a spaceship bound on a lightyears journey to colonize another world ran into trouble with its nuclear reactor and (at the time the novel begins) has been adrift in space now for centuries with countless generations come and gone and all knowledge of the outside world forgotten... Check it out, especially if you're a kid. It's a really cool idea.
This is the most memorable sci-fi title of my youth. I loved the idea that people born on a deep space ship might not know that it WAS a ship, that it was the extent of the universe to them, and that the concept of "outside" would be horribly frightening. To anyone interested, this is a short one! Short & sweet. :o)======================June 2013 - finished another re-read. Still love it.
This was one of the most important books of my childhood. The questioning of authority, existential inquiry and transcendence are just some of the themes that are explored.
It's funny, because the points that Heinlein is making--which are primarily about the way that being open- or close-minded is independent of being theist or atheist--seems equally applicable in 2016 as it did when the stories were first published in 1941.These are the reasons I think the book is worth reading: it's an absolutely vital component of our early sci-fi canon.But--other than as an interesting view into sci-fi history--I can't really recommend it.
It's a simplistic book, and I think that makes sense, because when sci-fi was still fresh and new coming up with the idea of a generation ship (or a story to put one in) at all was the accomplishment.
Fun idea for science fiction and interesting religious metaphor.
Unfortunately, Heinlein's version is not very deeply thoughtful.
The characters are not developed very deeply, the society is very primitive and extremely stubborn, and most disappointingly, the women never get revenge for all the sexism inflicted on them.
The mutated humans are a fun twist, especially Siamese twins Joe and Jim. While Joe-Jim is not treated with a lot of dignity by other members of the crew, they are accorded a fair amount of respect by Heinlein, at least relative to the other characters.
And, as I mentioned, the main character - Hugh - apparently during a crucial moment in the story (off page, mind you) cracked his partner in the face because she wasn't co-operating.
Then in the final act of the story, he kicked her in the face because she wasn't co-operating (again).
This was a problem I had with reading all three Logans Run books and Planet of the Apes.
The women in those stories were horribly treated by their parents or were non-existent to the narrative.
He's an interesting writer, that Heinlein, I'm just warry about reading other pieces by him.
Yes, women are used to reading male main characters without question or concern.
However this great story dives hard into female prejudices that should have shocked me even in the late 1960's and early 1970's.
No wonder I loved Madeleine L'Engle and I had her books to read.
There will be no more Robert Heinlein books in my reading list.
Enough is enough.I so want to hug that teenage girl and wish I could tell her that society was wrong about women.
NO WONDER THERE ARE A BUNCH OF ANGRY 50's WOMEN OUT THERE.
I don't know if this was actually the first generation starship story, but it was almost certainly the most influential.
Hugh Hoyston was born (as were his to-the-nth-generation ancestors) on the Ship, but to him it's just the world -- it's only natural that the Decks curve and that your weight decreases as you ascend.
Then he gets captured by the Muties (Mutineers/Mutants -- take your pick) and their two-headed leader Joe-Jim, and discovers that there's actually an outside to the world ...This is relatively early Heinlein (1941) and short (two linked ...
novelettes, maybe?); but one thing it demonstrates beyond question is that Heinlein could write.
Heade ideedega raamat generatsioonidelaevast ja sellest, kuidas vana teadus on aja jooksul muteerunud religiooniks, kuid lõpu viimases veerandis hakkas iga keeratava leheküljega tunduma, et asi saab natuke liiga järsu finaali, kuigi materjali oleks veel teist nii pika loo kirjutamiseks. Nii ta ka läks. Sujuv lugemine, kui soov midagi ette võtta, mis ühe või kahe õhtuga läbi saab. Samuti soovitan võrdluseks ka neile, kellele meeldis Kantileen Leibowitzile, kuna mõlemas on mandunud tsivilisatsiooni järeltulijate jaoks kunagised teadmised kaduma läinud ja moondunud usuks.
The story of a group of forward thinking people who begin to realize that their 'world' is actually the inside of an ark like starship. Over many generations and various mutinies, all knowledge of their actual situation has been lost and replaced with weird superstition and religion. A pretty good story and nice to read an older classic from one of the masters. By today's standards, this may seem a little short, but back in the day authors didn't need 600 pages to tell a story.
