https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/101205.Mildred_Pierce
On the other hand, Mildred is often a conflicted mess with an inferiority complex who can never find the balance between living too cheaply or too extravagantly, and she’s got horrible taste in men.And then there’s her daughter Veda.Veda is an exceptional instance of a writer creating a character that you just love to hate with this snobby manipulative child who looks down her nose at the mother who supports her and grows into something even worse.
I hated her so much that I hoped that Mildred would sell her off to work in a Depression-era sweatshop in which there was some kind of dangerous machinery that would mangle her.
Often a finicky reader like myself will coordinate novel reading with leisurely travel.
It is the exquisite pairing of books at beaches, at hotel balconies, at restaurants that forever, at least in my own experience, binds the two together in a truly surreal/Dadaistic effort that's worthwhile.
Recently, reading "The Godfather" in Vegas made me feel invigorated--pairing this with nickel slots proved to be lucky--I won like 16 bucks!
But the most ironic and utterly correct pairing thus far has been my recent trip to Knott's at California and its neighboring chicken-only one-of-a-kind diner.
That means 'No Married Women.'""Why, may I ask?""Because right in the middle of rush hour you wonderful little homemakers have a habit of getting a call that Willie's got the croup, and out you run, and maybe you come back next day, and maybe you come back next week.""Somebody has to look after Willie.""These people, these employers on the greens, they're not much interested in Willie.
Drawing on her skills with food, hospitality and people, Mildred Pierce seems to be on her way to becoming someone Veda is proud of.It was a hot morning in October, her last at the restaurant.
Cain guides Mildred and her fabulous gams from one setback to the next, either from Veda or one of her douchebag suitors.The writing is good though I didn't think it was as powerful as that of Double Indemnity or Postman.
Mildred pretty much deserved all the crap that came her way, especially since she was glad Veda wasn't the child of hers that died.
Mildred Pierce shows that Cain had some serious writing chops even when not writing about married women and their lovers bump off their husbands.
I'd include this book in the genre I like to call, "Middle Class White Women Have A Really Bad Time".
Other works in this genre include, A Streetcar Named Desire by Tennessee Williams and The Awakening by Kate Chopin.
I seem to really enjoy this genre for some reason.
I came to Mildred Pierce for two reasons, one) the Joan Crawford film and two) look that's my name!
Overall I did enjoy this book.
The relationship between her and Veda is a legendary in the book as it is on film.
I'd definitely recommend this for fans of the film and for new readers of the story.
In this novel, that might be described as literary fiction, it’s almost as if he wanted to prove to the world that he could create a sympathetic portrait of a woman: “If you have to do it, you can do it.” And he does, and she does, though Mildred also makes bad decisions with respect to her choices in men, and her support for her daughter.Mildred Pierce (the novel) is set in the forties, so it’s kind of a portrait of working class women that for a good portion of the book reminds me of Rosie the Riveter.
O’Byrne is perfect as Mildred’s clueless but basically good-hearted first husband, and as for Winslet and Pearce … holy crow."The rest of his thoughts in the spoilerhttp://more2read.com/?review=mildred-pierce-by-james-m-cain(view spoiler)[Kate Winslet Is Mommie Dearest in Mildred Pierceby Stephen KingMarch 20, 2011 | 10:54pmWinslet and Evan Rachel Wood burn up the screen in the spectacular HBO miniseries Mildred Pierce.
The general consensus was that Joan Crawford probably deserved the Oscar for her portrayal of Mildred Pierce in the film of the same name, but three of the other nominated actresses—Ingrid Bergman, Jennifer Jones, and Gene Tierney—seemed more likely to win.
I had no idea I would be sucked into this novel the way I was -- I couldn't put it down!
Unlike Double Indemnity or The Postman Always Rings Twice, Mildred Pierce is a full-length novel that takes its time delving deep into character and focusing on the minutiae of one woman's epic financial rise during the Great Depression (and her extremely damaging and twisted relationship with her eldest daughter Veda).
(view spoiler)[When Mildred FINALLY loses her cool and starts to choke her, I'm actually cheering her on!
Cain isn't writing a love story or a novel of redemption.
This book is more about broken illusions, the price of what one perceives as success.For those, who, like me, had been oblivious about this book, it's the story of a beautiful young woman named Mildred, with a very strong character and a gift for cooking, but truly awful taste in men and inexplicable love for her horrid daughter.
And Mildred will go to great lengths to satisfy Veda's expectations.While I couldn't understand Mildred's attachment to that devil-spawn of hers, I otherwise admired her a lot as a character: no-nonsense, proud, independent spirit, hard-working, clever and determined, she pulls off what few women manage to do today - claw their way out of a truly bad situation and live life on their own terms.
Mildred Pierce is the tale of a woman living during the Great Depression who is trying to provide for her two daughters after getting divorced from her cheating husband.
Mildred Pierce was brave enough to get rid of her husband, but earning money afterwards turns into an entirely different issue.
Later that turns out to bring valuable and prosperous knowledge, making her a great example of a self-sufficient woman of that time period.The main charm of this book lies in the relationship between Mildred and her daughter Valda.
I'm not going to lie, I honestly hoped something bad would happen to Veda.
This was fun. Mother-daughter dysfunction at its finest.
I want Veda Pierce to become real. So that I may punch her.
While Mildred Pierce was turned into something of a crime story in the movie starring Joan Crawford, the book is the fairly straight-forward story of a California woman who struggles to make a life for herself and her daughter, Veda, during the years of the Great Depression.As the book opens, Mildred throws her lazy, unfaithful husband out on his ear and become the single mother of two young daughters.
As terrible a thing as it is to say, were I Mildred Pierce, by the third or fourth chapter of this book, her darling Veda would have been in traction and I would have been in jail.
4.5 stars. Thoroughly enjoyed my first read by James M Cain and will now be on the hunt to read The Postman Always Rings Twice and Double Indemnity. I remember watching the film of this book years ago and loved it. This is a very character driven book and Mildred and Veda are something else!
I picked up Mildred Pierce without realizing the book was written by the same author who penned The Postman Always Rings Twice and Double Indemnity, now after finishing Mildred Pierce, I've decided to put the latter two books to the top of my To-Read list.Mildred Pierce is a young woman who had recently divorced her unfaithful husband and now she must look after her two daughters at the time of The Great Depression, and life isn't easy for a single mom of that time.
Mildred Pierce is a woman with many flaws (at first she even thinks being a waitress is beneath her) and she isn't always smart when it comes to life-choices, but what I can admire about her is her determination.
I quite thought I'd have no trouble relating to Mildred at the beginning - I got hooked on, "She was a little given to rehearshing things in her mind, and having imaginary triumphs over people who has upset her in one way and another," because I do that all the time.
(view spoiler)[Mostly I feel sorry for her youngest daughter Ray, who gets about three pages worth of play, dies of a pimple, and ends up half-heartedly mourned by a mother who is relieved that her asshole other daughter is the one that lived.
I've been to Mildred Pierce before I learned it was a yuppie cruising spot, and was unimpressed by the food.
On to the novel, which has a surprising amount of boobies and banging for the 40s.Mildred, she's all right.
It is good writing about a great character not doing anything other than surviving the tedium of ordinary life, and occasionally rising a little above it.I haven't seen the Joan Crawford film adaptation yet, but I'll go out on a limb and say that the novel could be skipped in favor of the film; like the restaurant's food, the book isn't the point.
Well-written and with an interesting lead character, but it drags too long and gets a bit too soap opera-ish for my tastes. It's a cool little peek into Depression-era Los Angeles though!

Reading this was a bit like watching my mother and sister at a holiday get together except the roles are reversed and the book is way more fun.
Cain ha raccontato la storia di Mildred Pierce che per un certo verso si può far rientrare nella cerchia delle  dark ladies  tanto in voga nei romanzi degli anni '40.Una donna pregna di un orgoglio che si trasforma in diabolica superbia nella primogenita Veda.Il contesto è quello di un'America pre e post -depressione dove Mildred e Veda si distinguono perchè non vogliono solo sopravvivere alla crisi ma emergere e posizionarsi nelle alte sfere della società.C'è una tensione che colloca il romanzo tra unnoir  psicologico ed un dramma famigliare.Definirlo propriamente “romanzo noir” lo trovo eccessivo e forzato.(view spoiler)[ Personalmente mi ha deluso che l'illusoria tensione portasse a qualcosa di nuovo.
(hide spoiler)][NB- Interessante, comunque il gioco di parole con il cognome della protagonista (To)PIERCE che sta per “bucare, ferire, infilzare, penetrare ecc..” un riferimento alla decisa caparbietà di Mildred di farcela a sfondare in società]
Really, I don't have to write a review: the book's credentials recommend it without my help, don't they?
But I'll write one, anyway.This book is dark.
One of the reasons Cain is such an excellent noir writer is that he understands that noir is not a world of heroes and villains, but a world of villains and lesser villains.
Mildred, in her own way, is just as terrible as Veda, and we even understand Veda's motivations better.
Veda is poisonous, but we can't exactly root for Mildred, because she first creates and then goes after what Veda gives, pursuing her own demise.
This is a story about a mother's unhealthy relationship with her daughter and the mother's obsessive desire to do anything to gain love and acceptance from the daughter.
Veda was a very self-centered and ungrateful daughter.
She's the type of daughter who takes all the credit for her success but would blame her mother for her pitfalls.
Her mother bent over backwards trying to please Veda but Veda was the daughter from hell.
The book is a total family tragedy and a definite classic.
James Cain is an excellent writer and I look forward to reading some of his other books.
Mildred Pierce é um excelente romance de época, que retrata na perfeição a época que sucedeu a Grande Depressão de 1929. Com o desemprego a aumentar, fruto da derrapagem de muitas empresas, a vida de Mildred não é diferente da maioria das famílias norte-americanas. Opinião completa: http://marcadordelivros.blogspot.pt/2...
I thoroughly enjoyed listening to this! It was like a melodramatic soap opera dated 1930s. The things parents do for their children...and ungrateful ones, too! I felt like I'd been transported back in time and I appreciated the author's knowledge on subjects like running a business and art/music. I think it was better than the movie, surprisingly. "Let's get stinko!"
Set during depression era America, this family drama takes the reader deep into inner suburbia where a housewife, mother, and businesswoman can echo noir with the best of them.Mildred Pierce is the type of book I imagine modern day authors such as Megan Abbott writing.
Mildred Pierce is a classic that largely held my attend but it was prone to lapses of semi-boredom where nothing much seemed to happen.
The audio version suffered from a narrator that struggled to make the characters distinguishable at times, particularly early on in the novel.
That said, the pitch and breathless delivery fit the tone of the novel perfectly.
Overall, I give Mildred Pierce 3/5 stars.
Cain sure wrote a very character driven novel when he wrote Mildred Pierce.
Mildred, divorced in the early 40's when divorce was a word whispered and not spoken, has a penchant for worthless men.
She sure knew how to pick shiftless and arrogant men.
And she also knew how to use these men to her advantage.Veda, Mildred's oldest daughter, is a bad seed.
It will be Veda that unravels Mildred in the end.Brilliant book.
Mildred Pierce is nothing like The Postman Always Rings Twice or Double Indemnity that labeled Cain as a crime noir writer.
The crimes in this book are the personal relationships.
The story of Mildred Pierce follows the titular mother who, during the Great Depression finds herself separated from her husband, opening a restaurant of her own, and falling in love with a new man, all the while trying to earn her daughter's love and respect.Sounds like a nice little story, right?
Cain brings his famous noir style (found in his other books like The Postman Always Rings Twice & Double Indemnity) and adds this to what could be considered a standard ‘coming-of-age’ format.
Trying to earn the respect of a daughter may be hard enough, but this teenage girl is the most stuck-up, pain-in-the-ass bitch I’ve even seen on paper.
Cain book I've read.
I've always been interested in that decade, and this book did more to illuminate it (and what it might have been like to be a woman in that time) than any other novel for me.
Among all of the mystery and intrigue, Cain weaves tiny details about 1930s life in Hollywood and Glendale, California, bringing to life a time when women wore flawlessly white gloves, stockings, and "dressed" to go out at night, but also took their scotch 'neat' and played it as scrappily (a new word I just invented) as the men.Yep, I love this book.
Necessario continuare a prendersene cura anche dopo che quel progetto ha ormai preso vita.Regalalo a chi non riesce ad avere un dialogo con i propri figli: questa storia ti fa capire che a volte al peggio non c'è mai fine e che spesso l'amore tra genitori e figli non è così immediato.
Una donna da ammirare.Da parte mia so già a chi lo regalerò: un romanzo come Mildred Pierce non può restare fermo in un posto.
