https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1180574.The_Silver_Brumby
Similarly, I imagined Thowra with a coat of shining silver - I've since learnt that the term 'creamy' probably means a palomino horse rather than a white.With some of these childhood assumptions shattered, I thought I would try reading the book once more and see how I felt about it, with some of that rose-tinted attitude stripped away.What did I find?A book that still charmed me, even disregarding nostalgia and warm feeling.
In terms of pony classics, Thowra easily stands alongside Black Beauty, and I would love to see more people reading and enjoying this remarkable story.
HONEST TO GOD THIS SERIES IS MY ENTIRE CHILDHOODI loved these books so much, the writing was good and I was mesmerized by this story of Thowra, a beautiful silver stallion. I plagiarised this book so much when we had to write stories in class whoops. I went through my horse stage because of this bookI WANT TO REREAD IT TBH
He grows from colt to a magnificent stallion, using the mountains to look after his herd and to escape from man.I first read this book over fifty years ago and was transported to a magical world.
I still think of the Snowy Mountains as silver brumby country and imagine the offspring of Thowra roaming freely through their domain.
And brumbies are not universally loved in the Snowy Mountains.The magic had not evaporated for me with this novel: I could still imagine Thowra and his herd, I could still imagine Thowra eluding capture because of the lessons Bel Bel had taught him.
.The Silver Brumby was the first book i ever read that belonged to a series, i first read it when i 
More deserving review for this book to come.
Big badass feral horses battle each other for kingship, find mates, raise foals, brave the harsh reality of life in the wild, protect their herds, and evade the ropes of the stockmen who seek to tame them in this atmospheric thrill-ride of a book.
Pick this up if you're a fan of horses (or of animals in general), and you're looking for something a little different from your average Pony Pals-type "horse book"....I suppose if I was to nitpick, I would be miffed by the inaccurate portrayal of horse herd hierarchy.
This whole series was such a vivid childhood favourite for me. I don't think I could bring myself to ever read the books again for that reason...
Sadly, I was never one of those girls who fall in love with horses in elementary school.
Apparently, my fourth grade teacher was; that year, she read aloud every Marguerite Henry horse book ever written, to my dismay.I wish Mrs. McKinnis had read aloud The Silver Brumby.
I don't know if it would have had the same effect on me at ten as it did when I read it last month at fifty-six, but suddenly I'm in love with horses.
At least Australian horses.
Thowra eludes capture time and time again and has to fight bad horses and seeks out the wild parts of the land and leads a herd of other beautiful wild horses.
I love this story.
Finally found a copy as an adult at the Tattered Cover in Denver several years back.I really enjoy this story of an Australian brumby from his birth to his undisputed reign as king of the Cascade brumbies.
The exploits of Thowra and his best friend Storm, born the same night of the storm as he was, are wonderful reading.
Thowra and Storm have both been trained by their mothers to read all the signs of the earth and sky, to travel trackless and to know well the country they are going through or find themselves in.


Ok, I know I'm making myself unpopular here but it would have probably got more stars if I had been a few decades younger than I am but as it is, I really couldn't get into it. Too much 'nodding wisely', too much human behaviour superimposed on animal protagonists, too many statements about herd dynamics/behaviour that is plainly wrong. All of which I would have been blissfully unaware of at, say, eight but just couldn't push aside at a-few-decades-and-then-some older than eight. Shame, really.
So sad to think that this could be based on what actually might have happened in Australia.
My mum swears she had all of them, but I only found the second one so I bought the first, lost the second, found that and lost book 1, found book one again and have no idea at all what happened to the silver brumby's daughter. Anyway, it's and excellent book.
Read it and loved the movie as a kid
The Silver Brumby books were my absolute favourite when I was a horse-crazy girl in primary school.
My mum got me the first four books and I kept reading them for years onward (and plagiarising them when I wrote stories).
At some point, I suppose they got thrown away...I found The Silver Brumby Omnibus at work recently, and borrowed it out, and am now rereading the first four books.
I handed the book to my partner and asked him to read a paragraph, and he was surprised by the language.
The Silver Brumby is one of those books were you just want to keep reading it over and over again.
His mother who is named Bell-Bell knows that great dangers that come ahead to him, so he must know the ways of the Brumby country.When Thowra is a foal, he is playful and,in a way, cheeky.
Arrow is a mean horse that wants to be the king of the brumby country, he fights Thowra and try's to steal his place of "The King of the Cascade Brumbys".It is great to see how Thowra grows from a playful foal, to a wise and mature stallion.
The Silver Brumby books featured in my early reading days quite a bit.
I've read the books, but I've never been on a horse.
This is the first book, and one I haven't read for many years.
I owned a book called The Silver Brumby, but have since realized it was a novel of the movie.
It wasn't bad, but this book is truly beautiful.
I've read a number of Australian books lately, giving me a renowned respect for our sunburnt land.I'll be dreaming of creamy brumbies tonight, The Silver Brumby is a five star read!
I read this countless times when I was a kid (in fact the entire series), and have just finished reading it to my son. Was really not as well written as I remembered, and so many typos too!, in my early edition! Still my son hopefully caught the Thowra bug.
I read this as the reread a childhood favourite part of my book bingo for the year.
The five stars are not really an accurate rating for this book, certainly, there are story elements and the writing quality are sometimes much lower than this rating but the five stars are for how much I loved this book twenty years ago and how much I still love it now.
For me this book is magical, somewhere in the back of my mind I'm determined that horses communicate just like they do in this book.
I really enjoyed The Man From Snowy River by Elyne Mitchell (the book based on the film based on the poem). I found this one was just too horsey for me. But I'm glad to have read it, being an Aussie classic, and set in the Snowy Mountains, not too far from where I live. I've passed the book on to a very horsey friend who can't wait to read it. :)
Almost unknown in the US, I think - a classic horse story that I loved as a kid. I actually read several in the series, but don't recall now which ones. They were loaned to me in the mid-1980's by a guy who had lived in Australia as a child, but I've never seen them since.
'The Brolga came high-stepping up the valley'. These words still resonate with me thirty years later. I never forget this book, wonderful, wonderful writing.
This series held my heart when I was a child living in England. I still have all the love worn copies! I highly recommend it for any young, adventurous, horse loving children.
One of my absolute favourite books. I can read it again and again. It is a beautiful book and inspired my interest in horses. I love how it is from the wild horse's perspectives. This book is beautifully written and I recommend it to everyone who has a passion for animals.
My horse-obsession hasn’t waned much in the meantime, so I recommend these tales for horse-lovers of any age, although the book imprint itself is described as ‘for older boys and girls’.Unlike my own stories, Elyne Mitchell places Thowra firmly in a natural setting, with realistic interactions between the herds and his search for his own mates.
A hike the next day took me into the Cascades and to my delight, we found some brumbies – brown and black ones, but still brumbies!I still love these stories, and I recommend them to horse lovers of any age, and indeed any younger children with good reading skills looking for an exciting wildlife adventure.
Yes, I was such a cool child!I was immediately attracted to the "real" portrayal of the horses in the wild, Australian bush.
It was just about free and wild horses versus man.I'm delighted to say that many decades after I read the book, nothing has changed.
The main theme is nature versus the man, and that couldn't be more relevant in todays age.The story is about a wild, silver stallion that lives in the wild Australian bush.
I don't think it's very often you can say that - usually such books are too simple, less complex and not as appealing to a more well-read adult imagination.
And The Silver Brumby is a page turner, as Thowra flees from man, and fights for his life and his herd.
Friends and rivals and full blown enemies connect the reader emotionally to Thowra's herd.I honestly can't speak much higher praise for this book, and I'm excited to re-read the rest of the series - I only hope reliving the journey leaves me just as satisfied as re-reading the first installment has!
I love this book so much, I love it from my childhood when I was first starting to read chapter books.
I started reading it aloud to one of my partners a couple of years ago - it took us a while because I moved interstate but it was something we both really looked forward to.
This is a beautiful book, it's exultant about nature and freedom and wildness, but also family and friendship.
It's a bit of a tongue twister to read aloud, but it's worth it too if you wanted something longer to read to a child.
I will always love this book so very much.
This novel is magical.
I read it as a child, borrowed from a friend.
Since then I hadn't seen the novel again, as it's been out of publication for years.
I recently picked it up from a bargain bookstore and was pleasantly impressed to see that my positive impression of it wasn't due to my age.
You find yourself engrossed in the story of Thowra before you even realise it.
There is no conscious effort to make the reader picture Thowra as a "humanised" version of an animal - unlike the story in Watership Down (although I'm a big fan of Watership Down, too).
