https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/413617.Good_Bye_Mr_Chips
"Brookfield will never forget his lovableness."  Before starting, I thought I wouldn't love this novel. Turned out I was partiality right. Yeah! I loved it, but not completely. Because it was little boring for my taste. Although it was boring, I liked the character of Mr. Chips. It was so vivid and complete. His character development was gradual. And that was good. I liked his sense of humour and thoughts.I liked his chapters with Katherine. Those were the best. And last few chapters related t
Before starting, I thought I wouldn't love this novel.
I loved it, but not completely.
Because it was little boring for my taste.
Although it was boring, I liked the character of Mr. Chips.
I liked his sense of humour and thoughts.I liked his chapters with Katherine.
And last few chapters related to war were also good.
Maybe because I got emotionally attached with him as I had been reading this novel for almost six months.
I could read this before my class.
It is also one the reasons I loved this.
:)Don't know what to say further.
Also don't know whether I should recommend this.
Rating: 4.75* of fiveThe Book Report: Old Mr. Chipping, nearing ninety and still telling his hoary old jokes from sixty years ago to the newbies at Brookfields school, spends his last few days on earth wandering among the many well-furnished rooms in his head.
As he passes through the portal made for one (bet Chips'd know the source on that one), he feels...as I hope and pray all who read this will feel on their own long night...it was good, it was good.My Review: I read this book tonight because, for far from the first time in my life to date, I learned that I lost an old, old friend: My mother's best friend, my heart-mother, finally let go of her life barely short of her 92nd birthday on January 4.I know it was only her body wearing down, because dementia had long since taken her essence from the living world.
This review is in honour of Beth who enticed me into reading this sweet tale sooner than planned. Mr Chips, a shy, reserved teacher finds love in middle age and as a result becomes much loved by his students and colleagues. Story has a timeless quality to it; beautifully written.
And one can actually enjoy and savor the rest of one’s afternoon sipping tea while looking out over the window to the idyllic scene of kids bicycling along the street.
(Though, of course, females were regarded back then in a more unfavorable light…so…)In any case, this short story of a life lived comfortably in the simplest of terms, with all its highs and lows, is truly touching.
And then there's the curious fact that I was surprised at how the ending nearly pushed me to tears.An easy ‘reading’ story by Hilton, and the message is just as modest.
I mean the teacher retires from teaching in 1913 and spends his days very close to the school doing nothing but 'reading, talking and remembering.'This remembering is peppered with equal dose of both funny anecdotes and heart melting moments.A sample for funny anecdote: On his farewell day before Mr. Chips rose to give his speech, the Captain of the School had introduced Mr. Chips using a flowery language.
For it is very well connected to the historical happenings of UK - the Wars, the Strikes, the British education system, the change that was taking place in the early nineties (Mr. Chips does not approve of Mr. Shaw and Ibsen and woman riding a bicycle), etc.A lovely book for the retired teachers!
Ήθελα να διαβάσω κάτι μικρό, ενδιαφέρον και ευκολοδιάβαστο για το μεσημέρι, και το βιβλίο αυτό ήταν το πρώτο που μου ήρθε στον νου.
Μου άρεσε πολύ το όλο στιλ γραφής του Χίλτον -και ας θεωρείται πλέον παλιομοδίτικο-, συμπάθησα όσο δεν πάει τον φοβερό κύριο Τσιπς και, παρά το μικρό μέγεθος της νουβέλας, πρόλαβα να βυθιστώ στο (σχετικά) μακρινό παρελθόν της ιστορίας.
Είναι ένα κλασικό βιβλίο που αξίζει να διαβάσει κανείς και είναι κρίμα που δεν κυκλοφορεί πλέον στα ελληνικά.
Κάποια στιγμή στο μέλλον θα δω και την ομότιτλη ταινία του 1939, αλλά και αυτήν του 1969.
Such a heart warming novella of an old school teacher reminiscing his life, how he saw Brookfield evolving, and himself playing a pivotal role in it.As the events unfold in his mind in the form of warm and pleasant (and many a times not so pleasant) flashbacks, you are bound to participate.Didn't understand many of the Chips jokes :( Its neither preachy, nor tragic sentimental. The best part is, its not pretentious at all on any front.A very enjoyable read you'd love to slurp in a single sitting.Thanks for the reco Arpit.
Catching up with the classics # 23
Reading books when they're part of your curriculum takes all the fun out of the experience and whatever effect the book is supposed to have on you is lost as you spend day after day analyzing the story and finding answers to questions.
But...I think it's safe to say that while reading this, it wasn't like that at all.
I remember reading the story, sitting on one of the back seats, ignoring what the teacher was telling us with no one but my best friend aware of what I was doing.
روایتی است دلنشین از خاطرات تلخ و شیرین آموزگاری  مهربان و عاشق در گذر سالیان.خداحافظ آقای چیپس.
I saw the film some time ago, and as it turns out it was an excellent adaptation – very faithful to this sweet, sad, warm little book.
I don't want it to sound like a criticism when I say I have little to say about it beyond that (sweet, sad, warm); it isn't.
I enjoyed it very much, though about halfway through the nostalgia became melancholy despite Chips's perennial good humor, and I needed a break from even so short a book.
More than that, it's one of a triptych of short novels by James Hilton, over-the-top romances all of them, that I first read in high school and were made into sappy but well-produced movies in the 30's and 40's: Lost Horizon, Good-bye Mr Chips, and Random Harvest.
These more-or-less set the tone for Hollywood tearjerkers, and did the deed better than most, including lots of cheeky British humor, this gelaned from Mr Hilton's novels too.
So, as far as romances go, ...Mr Chips is fine.What bothers me about it, especially as I'm reading it, is that anyone would write a romance centered around an English boys public school.
Goodbye, Mr. Chips is a charming tale of an English schoolmaster whose life, at first glance, seems to be rather mundane and lackluster.
Mr. Chipping appears to be going through life as an average teacher, never to achieve any greater standing.
He realizes that he will never be a headmaster or win the admiration of his fellow teachers or of his students.
He thinks that he is hardly noticed and that he certainly will not be remembered.
But sometimes, fate steps in, and often, a person is not able to judge his own worth.
This short novel is filled with humor, wise anecdotes, and pathos.
Mr. Chips StaysMy first introduction to this story was through the 1960’s movie with Peter O’Toole playing Mr. Chips.
“Goodbye, Mr. Chips” is a sweet story based on a Victorian gentleman’s childhood and a life spent teaching at an English public school through the First World War. The plot mirrors the times and traditions of such institutions during that period which were based largely on class and its privileges.
It’s also about how one individual, Mr. Chips, changes with maturity and outside influence.
Like I said it’s a lovely and touching story, a pleasant way to while away a few hours.
This might be one of those rare instances where the movie is better than the book.
Read this book in syllabus during second year. But i really like it. Especially Mr. Chips character, he was not extraordinary or intelligent in anyway. But his life mattered he made a difference. He was orthodox man but he was not extremist. He was kind and understood the value of life. I think it was one of the best, simple and enlightening books.
A poignant tale- slow paced ,No dramatics, Still so sweet.
If you go into this book with that inflated expectation, you'll probably find yourself confused when you get to its schmatzy, yet still touching conclusion.You see, "Good-Bye, Mr. Chips" is not the earth-shattering glimpse into the inspirational life of teachers, so much as it is the quaint look into the waning years of an unassuming man who set out, once upon a time, to do his best in his chosen profession (which just happens to be teaching), and at the end of the day, looks back and realizes that it was all rather satifying.
And that the then and the now are no different in this regard; a man's tears are still construed as weakness.
I believe Mr. Hilton's prose delivered a contradiction to this perspective on the subject of weakness by demonstrating the value and strength Mr. Chips' character displayed.
He showed strength to stand boldly on his beliefs knowing it went against the grain of society, he held the discipline to be true to self, and through wisdom and perspective became moved to share empathy with mankind.
Mr. Chips' character, I found to be endearing.
but this book is not just unbearable but it has no point whatsoever.mr chips himself is the weirdest guy ever to walk the planet, i mean he says that he cant stand women and then goes and marries a girl young enough to be his daughter, if that isnt creepy i dont know what is.
mr chips speaking style of saying humph more then words is really annoying.Apart from all these little annoyances, the book has no point, imean who wants to hear the whole boring story of a guy whos would have won the boring emmy if there was one!!!
Although the lazy curriculum-makers of intermediate studies in Pakistan have killed this book for generations of Pakistanis by keeping it in the curriculum for the past five decades, to those who truly love literature and don't confuse spouting the names of obscure books with 'reading', this one is a great delight. In the very datedness of the character and the environs it describes lies its principal charm. Each time I have read this book, I have shed copious tears, and to me, personally, that is the greatest tribute a reader can pay to a deeply moving piece of writing.
I love the movie versions of Goodbye, Mr. Chips, but I hadn't read the novella that inspired them. I'm glad I took a couple of hours (actually less) from my weekend to remedy that. The Robert Donat & Greer Garson movie version is closer to this warm and delightful story than the musical version (Peter O'Toole & Petula Clark). It's an easy, feel good story, and it makes me wish I could hear Mr. Chips tell a couple of his jokes.
آقای چیپس یک جهانبینی خاص بود. یک سفر زیبا در تاریخ و مردی که سنت را در صنعت بیدار کرد و در کشاکش جنگ خود به ریش و ریشهی جنگ خندید و دیگران را هم به خندیدن دعوت کرد. لطایفش حتی روح زمخت زمانه را هم لطیف کرد. چیپس خودش روح زمانه بود.
آقای چیپس یک جهان‌بینی خاص بود. یک سفر زیبا در تاریخ و مردی که سنت را در صنعت بیدار کرد و در کشاکش جنگ خود به ریش و ریشه‌ی جنگ خندید و دیگران را هم به خندیدن دعوت کرد. لطایفش حتی روح زمخت زمانه را هم لطیف کرد. چیپس خودش روح زمانه بود.
Heartwarming short (too short) story, almost an eulogy, of a school teacher's life. The author based it on his Dad, and a Latin teacher he'd had I believe. It flows smoothly and evenly, making you sit back and ponder over why we get in such a rush sometimes.. and on all the good things of life.
Narrow in ambition but sentimental in essence, the novella follows the life of a British school teacher, Mr.Chips.
He was an ordinary gentleman and perhaps an average educator.
It also touches on the way school is affected by outside events like the First World War.The story and characters are a bit dull for my liking but there is an emotional attachment with this novella.
It was a part of our english curriculum in intermediate.
Its memories are with me,though vague and consisting of bits and pieces.
Our English teacher was nicknamed Mr.Chips and aptly so, because he was also a kind and amiable person.
This book reflects not only upon the long life of a dying teacher, but on a wonderful time when people weren't so focused on themselves and their telecommunications. It was a time when people were actually involved with the world around them and when children weren't so lazy, when instead of sitting there on their X-Boxes they'd go outside all day, have adventures and make their lives into something meaningful. As "Mr. Chips" thinks back on the ninety-some years he's been alive, his life turns out to be one of turmoil, yet a very interesting life all the same.
Very charming little book about a man whose life spans four major epochs of British history, yet on a personal level only really begins when he's nearly fifty. The more children's literature I read, the more I realize how much adult books tend towards bloating. Sometimes, less is more. This sweet, short story is one of those times. Discovered via Mensa for Kids 7th-8th grade reading list.
A sweet poignant tale of a teacher reminiscing about his life !!
A poignant tale slow paced No dramatics but still a very sweet one.
As for the original owner of the book, I did another Google search and he came up on this (page 94) list: Strange, H.E.W.(Temp.)., L.Cr., RCNVR (S.B.), serving at HQ.
So, the original owner of my book was a Lieutenant Commander of the H.M.S.C. Melville minesweeper in WWII.
This short, sweet novel was an excellent travel through the fin de siecle and WWI, touching on various social and political events, and showing how “normal” people lived through it.
I especially loved the little bits about Chips’ wife, the “new woman”, because it showed how, again, “normal” people experienced something we look back on now as a large “movement” or a shift in society.
Well, this was a charming read. But there wasn't really a plot, it was sickeningly sentimental, the jokes weren't funny, I didn't like all the thrashing and lines, and the one anti-Semitic line really jumped out at me. I know I shouldn't read it like that, but that line made me mad.Yet I'm giving it four stars.
