https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/120354.Odd_Girl_Out
Even though it was published before even my mother was born, this book impacted my life in a way that I can't put into words adequately.
And a year later, I discovered the internet and chat rooms and my life was irrevocably changed for the better, but this book validated me.
I still have the Naiad Press version, tattered and creased and well-loved and -read, sitting beside the newer Cleis Press version.
If I had to pick one book that impacted my life above all others, this is probably the one that I'd choose.
This review was written for The Lesbrary.Laura goes off to college and meets Beth.
Until Beth meets Charlie, and finally falls in love.This is basically the plot of Ann Bannon’s Odd Girl Out and on this cursory, superficial level, I sort of enjoyed it.
Laura, for being the star of the scandalous lesbian plot, fairly disappears from the book for the last half.
As a modern day lesbian, I liked it even less.
Beth and Charlie definitely win the narrative race to heteronormative success, but Bannon carves out a small space for Laura too, and I appreciated that.
H κεντρική χαρακτήρας εξαφανίζεται μετα απο κάποια στιγμή απο το προσκήνιο και ασχολούμαστε με τους υπόλοιπους βαρεμένους της παρέας (που δεν μας νοιάζουν κιόλας) με την Μπέθ να είναι και επισήμως η πιο ΚΑΡΧΙΑ αφου δεν ξέρει τι θέλει και τους χορεύει στο ταψί με απαράδεκτες δικαιολογίες και ολίγον τι συντηρητισμό αλλα σε αναμενόμενα πλαίσια για την περίοδο που διαδραματίζεται. Ενδιαφέρουσα ματιά στις ζωές των ομοφυλόφιλων γυναικών του 1950. Το μονο καλό είναι οτι έρχεται η συνειδητοποίηση για την Λώρα την οποία ακολουθούμε και στις υπόλοιπες ιστορίες της σειράς.
It was unrequited, but it was intense enough to spark something in Bannon that made her question her sexuality, but dropped the seed of this book into her mind.
Laura Landon's realization of her love for her sorority sister is so intense, and described in such vivid detail that I could hardly breathe while reading it.
Read it as Bannon's life and experiences to that time.
I am loathe to list the 22-year-olds I've known in my life who had the powers of observation Bannon had in describing the nuances of hidden motivations and desires.
While this book is historically significant as one of the pulp novels of the 1950's and is interesting from that perspective, that doesn't necessarily make it a great read. The characters are kind of shallow and caricaturish but I guess that's representative of the genre.I wouldn't recommend it for someone looking strictly for good entertainment, but if you want to get some insight to what lesbians in the 1950's went through to find any representations of themselves in literature, then take a look. Bannon's novels are supposed to have the most friendly portrayals of the period.
My coverage of seminal trashy lesbian pulp fiction is woefully lacking.
In my research, next thing I knew, I was reading the Wikipedia biography of Ann Bannon, who wrote some of the best seminal trashy lesbian pulp fiction of all time in her series of books now known as the "Beebo Brinker Chronicles." "Oh my God!" I thought.
I pretend to be well-read, but my coverage of seminal trashy lesbian pulp fiction is woefully lacking!
In fact, I've never read any seminal trashy lesbian pulp fiction!"OK, maybe "seminal" was a poor word choice.Anyway, the thing delivers the goods, baby.
What can I add to what has been said before. These are seminal books, that while slightly dated compared to today's reality, speak with quiet passion and dignity about the struggles and consequences of following your heart, wherever that might lead you. The over riding message that I have always taken from these books is to be true to yourself. A must read.
Es cierto que actualmente el tema no da para pensar en fatalidades y aquí quiero aplaudir a Ann Bannon por atreverse a intentar caminar en un camino diferente, se fue en contra todas las fatalidades de sus colegas (que acaban con muertes o el suicidio de alguna chica) y realiza una fuerte crítica al sistema, en este caso habla mucho del odio al sistema universitario, a los prejuicios y los conflictos que se podian cargar si las veían juntas y sobre todo, el sistema en como Beth hace creer a Laura que todo va bien cuando no es así.
With this novel, Ann Bannon unknowingly launched the lesbian pulp movement in America.
Odd Girl Out became the first in the Beebo Brinker Chronicles, a series of 6 novels featuring Laura Landon and a host of other nontraditional literary characters.
Odd Girl Out is not sultry or steamy, and the writing is neither complex nor imaginative, but that's ok, because it wasn't written for literary critics.
So the next time you read a book or short story featuring a lesbian relationship, just remember that Odd Girl Out was the little pulp novel that made it all possible.
Odd Girl Out, by Ann Bannon, narrated by Kate Rudd, produced by Cleis Press, downloaded from audible.com.This is the first book in the Beebo Brinker series, written in the 1950’s by a 22-year-old Philadelphia housewife who wrote about what it would be like to be experimenting with sexual freedom in a sorority in 1957.
But Beth also becomes re-acquainted with Charlie, and they find themselves falling in love.
Beth is trapped between her two loves, and the rigid sorority life of the 1950’s.
A very good book, and Kate Rudd does a wonderful job narrating the book.
To me, what was far more shocking than the central love triangle is Charlie's behavior towards the women of the story.
He had a habit of using his physical presence--a combination of assertiveness and strength--as a means to compel the women to follow him or to stay with him.
In today's world this sort of behavior would be a quick road to a harassment charge.Second to this is the assumed road map for all the women at college: vaguely working for some liberal arts degree, with college itself as a stepping stone to marriage and family, and where marriage itself would mean dropping out.
Once upon a time, lesbian pulp fiction was just about the only place where gay women could read about themselves.
Written in the 1950s, these novels had to pass a morality test, i.e., there really was no happily ever after ending for two women in love.
Thankfully, lesbian fiction has come such a long way since then!
More women than ever are writing their own stories: romance, sci-fi, historical--you name it.
But I will always be grateful to the trailblazers like Ann Bannon, who wrote these stories to let us know we were not alone.
Trust me, coming out in the '50s, '60s, and '70s was not easy.
I found this book by accident after my daughter was born. Odd Girl Out, is a gay book written in the fifty's. Because of its time there are no dirty, perverted, or graphic sense. Instead it is a innocent, school girl, love story. If you have ever been curious why the same sex is attracted to each other this is a good insightful, innocent read that explains the ways of a human heart. I actually emailed the author who is by now in her late 60's. She wrote me back and told me a bit about herself.
Although this is a classic in 1950's pulp fiction, it reads a bit like a dramatic young adult coming of age story. Love! Deception! Breaking the Rules! It is light on trashiness and high on melodrama. It is worth reading for the social perspective. I wonder if everyone really called each other 'Darling" in the fifties? Hmmm. Still, the ending manages to wrap the story up in a way that is both satisfying and socially conscious.
Very interesting portrayal of what it was like to be a woman and a lesbian back in the 1950s. We have come quite a long way on some respects since then. This book reads better and is better than most pulp fiction, very melodramatic, but one must remember that the characters in it are very young. Good writing, very strong compelling characters. Ann Bannon really did something revolutionary for the time in trying to create realistic portrayals instead of pulpy cheap caricatures. Recommended.
Can't stop reading that classic lesbian pulp fiction. Pretty impressive for a pulp yarn written by a 21-year-old suburban housewife.
Pulp fiction
A fun capture of period culture. We've come (out) a long way!
Delightfully trashy. it indulged my as of yet superficial fascination with the ways sexuality was negotiated historically.... in the campiest way possible.
wonder what life would have been had ann bannon been lying around the house in place of the harlequins my sister so enjoyed.
Very easy to read with minimal concentration requirement.
I found this book through the Forbidden Love documentary in which they interviewed Ann Bannon.
It's more of a straight forward love triangle.
I won't say too much to spoil what happens but I found the characters to be a little of a let down.
Beth starts off a strong-willed, larger than life role-model sort of girl who becomes less and less that as the story progresses.
Very little character development in any of the other toons.
I honestly didn't know what to feel after reading this one.
This book is a product of its time, and it's a book that had to conform to certain genre rules (to avoid 1950s censorship) attached to the lesbian pulp genre.
The relationship between the two girls felt toxic and dangerous.
They emotionally manipulated each other and the people around them.
The plot, despite being a novel about lesbians, revolved around a man.
A "good guy" who kisses girls when they say no, and manipulates them into dates.
It's entertaining, fairly well-written, and despite its many flaws, I did enjoy it.
Waffling between two stars and three, because it really was pretty bad, yet I need to judge it based on its time, not on my 2017 sensibilities.
The good: early portrayal of a lesbian love affair that did not end in the death of either character.
The bad: totally flat characters.
This was Bannon's first novel, and it's definitely a product of its time.
As a piece of history in lesbian literature, it's worth reading, but that's about the best that can be said for it.
Interesting, and i guess pretty revolutionary for the times it was written in, but still...SPOILER SPOILER SPOILER SPOILERI fucking hated Charlie's pov and just Charlie's existence in general, and Beth, BETH, my child, what did you do?!
(Or lesbianism, for that matter) I don't know, I really liked Beth's character in the beginning and the fact that she couldn't (or didn't want to, or was afraid to) do what had to be done in the end just left me with a bitter aftertaste on my tongue.
Good for Laura, but she's not very likable, at least to me.
So anyway, I'm gonna try and read the next one, to see if it does, as they say, get better.

Oh my god.
What a novel.
This is one of the best romance novels I’ve read next to Eleanor and Park.
There is so much packed here in a 200 paged book.
The story is so well written and detailed.
The characters are so intriguing.
And the character development for them is SO GOOD.
This needs to be made into a movie because it is just such a good story about love, identity, and finding who you are.
And good representation for the lesbian community!
Highly, highly recommend.
It is pulp fiction however it reads like a modern YA novel.
It must have taken incredible courage to write books like this in the 50s and even more courage to try and make your way knowing who you are and how you feel. I'm so relieved I don't have to feel like this any more. I hoped I would enjoy this and that it would be light but it has leave me feeling desolate and heavy. I think I'll stick to contemporary lesbian romance and fold this t-shirt and put it back into the cupboard.
I was nervous about this because I've heard that lesbian pulp novels are almost exclusively tragic. While this one did have a "sad" ending, it was by no means tragic. And I feel like the lesbian character actually gets a happy ending. Although her relationship didn't work out, she knows who she is and she is moving forward into a future with possibility. Listening to Charlie go on about how Beth needs a man and being with a woman is childish was excruciating, though.
Not all that well written, but probably because it's a product of it's time (1957). Worth a read for how it handles lesbian love at a time when it was frowned upon--downright illegal. It does treat at least one of the characters with humanity--the other's homosexuality is treated like something she can shrug off easily--and be rewarded for it. The melodrama is typical for this type of pulp fiction. Lot of point of view slips but a brisk read.
Reading this in a current mindset, this book is not good enough. The way the characters are written is flat, the author doesn't really understand the lgbt topic however hard she tries. The story is not really interesting.But reading this, while keeping in mind this was written in the 50s by a young woman who empathised with the subject, it is an important book in the history of queer books.
