https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/225385.Lust_Killer
Brudos did not really understand what all that meant, but during the coming years he realized it simple was not enough to satisfy his need, albeit he was not really sure what exactly that need was.When reaching teenager years, Brudos took another step towards killing by forcing his neighbor, a girl aged 18 whose underwear he had stolen, to pose him nude while taking photographs of her in various seductive positions.
Brudos and Metzler's marriage worked enough good for awhile, Darcie kept his husband satisfied by dressing nicely, wearing high heels and posing for his nude photographs.Naturally, this period would not last long because Brudos needs were not the kinds that any living woman could satisfy.
However, it is her fantastic ability to pull it all together and write of it coherently which sets her books above the other true crime writers.'Lust Killer' brings up some important points about relationships and being too stupid to live:Rule number one: don't marry someone you've known only three months.Rule number two: don't make babies with someone you've known only three months.Rule number three: if someone has changed jobs multiple times in one year and moved just as often, the problem may be about the person, especially if the reason given for the moves is always because the boss had it in for them or the boss or job was stupid - and then refuses to provide any other details.Rule number four: if your spouse or sex partner has rooms or building structures forbidden to you to enter, leave NOW.
Due to lack of reading material, I was forced to read Lust Killer.
I had never heard of Ann Rule, and I underestimated her because, honestly, the book just looked mediocre (I guess that goes with the saying "Don't judge a book by its cover").
I'm sorry for this, Ann. This book exceeded my expectations dramatically!
This book had me hooked from almost the beginning.
This was a very gruesome book, and I almost feel guilty for admitting my liking for it.
It's interesting to be able to be in the mind of a sexual psychopath killer, though.
Ann Rule did an exellent job.
This was a classic true crime Ann Rule book!
Very fast paced and very informative on a killer that murdered women in Oregon in the late 1960's.
This book is not for the faint of heart as it describes in explicit detail what the killer did to the women.
I could not put it down and it kept me glued to the page of what was going to happen next.
The case of capturing the killer was also very interesting of how the law enforcement officers finally put it all together.
Giving it 5* for keeping me glued to my seat.
There's a reason she's writing about Jerry Brudos, and that reason informs her story-telling.Her reason, of course, is the same reason that makes The Stranger Beside Me: Ted Bundy The Shocking Inside Story compelling: educating her readers, specifically her young female readers, on the existence of men like Brudos, on the fact that you can't protect yourself from them by being "good" (or "bad," for that matter), and that if one targets you, cooperation almost certainly means your death.
This threw me for a loop and drug me into the story even more.
This is the crazy, twisted, dark, chilling account of the serial killer Jerry Brudos aka The Lust Killer.
Jerry killed women in the Portland/Salem, Oregon area in the late 1960's.
It is crazy to think that such a disturbed person lived.
This serial killer's story is also featured in the Netflix's Show: Mindhunter and now can't wait to watch the show.
This specific review will be included in the February 2018 Wrap-up.
For other video book reviews check out my YouTube Channel: Steph's Rom Book Talk.
This book is creepy. I learned that if I am ever attacked by a psycho I should fight and try to get away. The girls that fought in this book survived. The girls that tried to reason with him or did what he said because they though he would let them go later were murdered. Jerry Brudos was one sick lunatic. Thank God he died in prison where he belonged.
Written in 1983 -- just after her Bundy book -- and published under her pulp pseudonym of "Andy Stack" -- this is essentially a pulp true-crime book, and so a work of inferior quality.
I gave it up halfway.Jerry Brudos was a creep, not even intelligent or in the least interesting.One note: We tend still to think of serial murderers as a product of their environment -- but that is not true.
He had transgressed with ladies before he started his killing spree but in a more minor way and he had been fortunate enough not to have been caught.
Had he been caught perhaps the disasters that followed might not have happened.Oregon's Salem and Portland districts were terrorised once the spree began and Lieutenant James Stovall, one of the best detectives on the force, was at a loss to uncover the killer.He worked diligently and once he got a break he honed in on Brudos, whose insignificant manner, made him appear the least likely of killers.
Ann Rule delivers another chilling, true-crime story with Lust Killer.
Often reality can be more fearful than fiction.Jerry Brudos was indeed a very sick individual with a hatred of women that started in early childhood.
He felt no remorse for the young women he violated and killed.
There is also a lesson to be learned by reading this shocking story: be aware of your surroundings, and those around you; fight, scream, or do anything you can to draw attention to yourself if you are in a threatening situation; never believe your kidnapper when he says he won't hurt you if you come along quietly.
If you are a true crime fan, I would recommend this book!Book Hollowhttp://myparanormalbookreviews.blogsp...
I found the writing to be fantastic. Rule’s Stranger Beside Me had me bored throughout but in Lust Killer I was found myself unable to put it down. I definitely see why people enjoy her writing and plan to check out more of her works now.
Straightforward biographical sketch of Jerome Henry Brudos. Active in the late 1960's in the Portland/Corvallis/Salem areas of Oregon. Married with two children. Electrician. Shoe fetish. Stocky and incredibly strong. Strangled, raped, and mutilated victims. Weighed bodies with engine parts, and dumped in river. Pleaded guilty. Multiple life sentences. Became a computer expert in prison. Died of liver cancer 2006.
I very seldom read true crime accounts. I generally find them horribly banal, and I get irritated at the blurbage where every serial killer victim is "beautiful" or "all American." I read this one to get anecdotes for my psychology classes and for my own writing. I thought it was well told although I didn't find the case itself terribly compelling.
Ann Rule's writing has really matured from her older books like this one. For one, she no longer writes what the murder victim was thinking and feeling before and during the murder, something that drives me nuts in true crime.
I have not read an Ann Rule book in a long time and I forgot how well she writes these stories. Interesting, holds your interest, easy to follow and not so much repetition. This was a super read and I enjoyed it very much..
This book has been my least favorite by Ann Rule. I just didn't like it at all I skipped pages and read the last page! It
This is an older true crime story I chose for research purposes, and it was an interesting but very creepy case.
I hate to say this, but I found this book to be dull and boring. Sorry, Ann Rule fans. Now I am trying another of Ann Rule's books and it is starting off even worse.
Completely flew through this!
interesting true crime, but very dull

This is one of the early works of Ann Rule and while reading it, I once again realized that she spent hours of her life researching crimes to write about them. As always, her diligence pays off and the reader learns more about a headline grabbing crime and the court case that settled it. There was the right amount of detail to help me understand the trial without being bored by small details. This was a really bad guy and I finished this feeling sad for his victims and also for his wife and children.
This is a short book, at least judging by most of Ann Rule's other books. In this book she profiles Jerry Brudos, a man who was raised by a very hateful mother. Brudos grew up to become a woman-hater and took out his frustrations on the women of Portland, Oregon in the late 1960's. Today he would have been called a serial killer but that moniker did not exist in 1969. This is the first true-crime book that I've read in which the wife was tried (separately) for aiding and abetting in the murders. An enjoyable read as always.
A very creepy tale about a serial killer named Jerome Brudos who lived in the town I went to college in. I read it because I had as a patient the detective James Stovall who cracked the case and had him arrested. Very creepy sick guy (Brudos) but it was fun asking Mr Stovall about the book and the case.
Short book, best part was the last 100 pages. The beginning was okay, it was just a hard start, the bad guy just isn't very interesting. Okay, it's true crime, but it is early Rule and having read other books published later, the author gets better at her craft.
Reads almost like a piece historical fiction (albeit a true crime take on that genre) and lacks the insight Rule was able to offer in Stranger Beside Me having known Ted Bundy personally. However, Lust Killer is still an decent read for true crime fans.
3.5 -- There isn't much to say about men such as Jerry Brudos other than learn to recognize them, and stay far, far away. If you read Rule's books carefully, you'll see she sprinkles tips throughout the text on avoiding becoming a crime victim yourself .
I am far too squeamish to enjoy true-crime stories. I cringe from both the murders and the aftershocks. But this was a clear description of both Brudos and his killings and the world in which it was set.
Well written of a true monster!
6-word review: well done true crime. Very creepy.
