https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1067.1776
A number of factors have been blamed for the decline of American schools, but one of the biggest culprits in my opinion is the overemphasis on standardized testing, especially as codified by the dreadful No Child Left Behind Act.Both students and teachers have complained that high schools place so much emphasis on memorizing facts for the annual tests that it leaves little room for critical thinking, or interesting stories of history and literature, or anything else that makes learning fun and inspiring.
I don't think these stories should be forgotten.The book focuses on battles with the British between 1775 and 1777.
This is an interesting book that describes in personal detail the battles of the early revolution.
We see George and company in Boston, New York City, Pennsylvania and New Jersey.
The troops were a rag tag bunch and George was constantly strained to keep them from running away, serving out their enlistments and going home, dying of various diseases.
I did not have much of a sense of how much Tory sympathy there was until reading this.
Murrow was still about I suppose it would have made a pretty fair episode of “You are There.” It was an entertaining as well as informative read.
In 1776 David McCullough captures the importance of that year's quintessential struggle for our country.By focusing on this single year, as opposed to the entire war, McCullough is able to dissect more minutely the individual battles, turning points, specific leaders, and the result is one of the most humanistic depictions of George Washington I've ever read.
Telescoping in on actions like The Battle of Long Island, oft overlooked in American Revolution text with a broader view, gives the reader a chance to appreciate the ebb and flow of the war, as the retreating Patriots fled the rushing sweep of the oncoming British force and turned what might have been their ultimate defeat into an amazing escape during the almost magical midnight evacuation of New York.
David McCullough has again exceeded all expectations in his latest book, "1776." Like most historical narratives, the reader often knows the ending well in advance.
In "1776", every reader had to have expected that McCullough would close his book describing Washington's daring yet gallant crossing of the Delaware and the Continental Army's subsequent triumph at Trenton.
As much as this book was a narrative about the Continental Army from Bunker Hill, to Dorchester Heights, to Long Island and the Battle of Brooklyn, down through New Jersey and ulitmately victory at Trenton, the book could have as easily been a biography of sorts about His Excellency, George Washington.
Noted American Historian, David McCullough, beautifully tells the story of the birth of the United States of America.
He takes just one year in the American Revolution to tell how both sides of the war felt and thought.
He shows how King George III thought of the Colonists as petulant children who did not have any legitimate complaints.
One thought he would easily win (King George III) and one had doubts (George Washington) as he held the fate of the Colonies in his hands.
David McCullough is a gifted writer who does not disappoint.
"1776" is an interesting narrative covering the Revolutionary War from the Siege of Boston in late 1775, through the British victories in New York, to the successful American battles in windy, snowy weather in New Jersey.
"1776" concentrates on the military situation since McCullough wrote more about the politics of the time in another book.The American army looked like a ragtag group of volunteers who had insufficient training, clothing, food, and weapons, but possessed ingenuity and spirit.
Since I'm from the northeast, I was familiar with Boston, New York, and New Jersey.
Pulitzer prizes are sexy!This chronicles Washington's army from just after Bunker Hill to the dramatic crossing of the Delaware and his Christmas attack of the Hessians at Trenton. Well researched and superbly written, very entertaining. McCullough paints a vivid portrait of legendary time.
A book about the full first year of the Revolution, during which time the US army almost lost the war, but managed through perseverance and some luck to turn things around.2.
6. In large part, this book actually works to de-mythologize and unromanticize everything you learned in elementary school about the Revolution, and focuses on how the first year of the war influenced the rest of it.I would definitely be interested in reading more books by this author, especially his one on John Adams, which I have a feeling is the one I should have been reading in the first place, given what I wanted from this one.
McCullough discusses the trials and tribulations of the first full year of the American Revolutionary War in the north to northeastern part of the colonies with clear and concise language.
As this book speaks about 1776 in general, it also discusses George Washington, the General of the Continental Army (the name of the American army) and later, founding father and first President of the United States.
At times, it feels like a biography of Washington and that year of his life rather than about the battles and the importance of what they signified, but it was still an interesting and engaging read.
I am STILL baffled as to how many people have read and want to read this book.
The book is about the Revolutionary war in the year 1776.
I didn’t realize how much was fought in New York City and Long Island.
I didn’t realize how long it lasted.
One of the main issues in this book is disease and how it really devastated a lot of the American troops.
The Americans had small successes here and there.
The Americans did win the battle but only a portion of the British were there.
I did learn a lot reading this book, but I struggled to get through it.
David McCullough employs a lucid style in this book, detailed without being ornate, that conveys a lot of information in a short amount of pages.
He's even-handed in his portrayals of the notable persons on both sides of the war, mostly focusing on them as soldiers and statesmen rather than as people.
This particular war certainly had important goals, goals that would change the trajectory of human history, but that doesn't make it any less vile a business.Having gotten this baseline of knowledge, I feel ready to tackle more books about the American Revolution.
This is the first book of the nine I have read by David McCullough that I have not given either a four or five star rating.
It actually starts with the Siege of Boston in the fall of 1775, yet it does not cover Bunker Hill or the Battle of Lexington which occurred earlier in the same year.
The book reads as a mini-portrait of these three men during one year and a suite of battles.
Few authors can read their own books as well as McCullough does.
This book follows the entire war from start to finish, from Lexington to Yorktown.
There wasn't a shelf for "Books I tried to read, and then failed at." So this one wound up on the "Read" shelf, even though that's a lie - I only suffered through about a 1/3 of it.
1776 bored the living shit out of me.
I'm sure this makes me a bad person, moves me out of the running for the next Genius Award, reveals me as an uncultured, unsophisticated reader of comic books and advice columnists, etc etc.
This book reminded me of a trip I took to Gettysburg when I was in 3rd grade - battlefield after battlefield of mind-numbing boredom.
But this book focuses on the military campaign of George Washington and the Continental Army.
Washington then moved the army to New York to defend there, but the British Fleet returned, and with superior forces, total naval domination of the harbor and rivers, they routed the Continental's in a series of battles, finally capturing Ft. Washington.
But in another brilliant night manoeuvre, Washington stole quietly across the river with his army and escaped.
They followed up the next day by taking Princeton, probably saving the army and the country from defeat.The war would last another five years before Cornwallis surrendered at Yorktown in 1881.

A wonderful & amazing chronicle of the make-or-break year in the American Revolution. David McCullough's like a cozy Grandpa Historian: you just wanna sit in a circle and listen to all his stories, which is exactly the experience I had listening to the audiobook.
Non-fiction history of the year 1776, a pivotal year in the American Revolution.
McCullough focuses on the prominent leaders, both British and American, and we get a good idea of their strengths and weaknesses.
One of the strengths of the book is showing how the leaders of the Continental Army, particularly George Washington and his top staff, learned hard lessons early, and applied them in later battles.
I realize he was focusing on just one year, but the ending summarizes seven years into a few paragraphs.
Recommended to readers of history-related non-fiction or anyone that wants to learn more about the American Revolution.
It is the story of both the British and the Americans, the events that took place and the major players in these events.On the British side there is King George III, General William Howe, General Henry Clinton, General Charles Cornwallis, and others.
Two of the men who Washington came to depend on the most, Nathaniel Greene and Henry Knox, only military knowledge came from what they read in books.
Having finished reading this book it will be a little harder to not stop and pause for a moment the next time I see one of these historical site signs.
This book was fascinating and compelling, told in an informative style that makes the reader feel present at the events themselves (as is characteristic of McCullough).
"1776" allows us to see a man of much indecision, of undesired fame, and of questionable military ability.
But we the readers are also struck by the image of this same man, riding his horse into battle alongside his half-naked, untrained, starving "soldiers", and singlehandedly inspiring them to fight and die for our freedom.
And the events of that fateful year take on even more significance when one realizes that, as McCullough points out, Washington and his contemporaries were essentially committing high treason.
Beginning with the early American victory at the "Siege of Boston," McCullough details the disastrous results for the Americans at a series of battles to follow (most notably the Battle of Long Island and the taking of Fort Washington and Fort Lee).
The war would continue for another six years after 1776, but McCullough very powerfully gives the readers the impression that at the end of 1776, the American morale was as high as at any time in the past and that they truly believed that victory was now a question of "when" and no longer "if." HIGHLY RECOMMENDED!!
Fireworks and the Declaration of Independence are the only 2 things we normally associate with 1776.
Was I wrong, this book reveals so much that is skipped over in most history classes and books.
Read this incredible story to find out the real story of that fateful year.
What increased admiration I have for the men who fought through to end that year in victory when all seemed lost.
Washington comes through as a real person, not some misty legend.
The stories of Greene and Knox are also wonderfully revealing.
Should be mandatory reading for all high school students.
Story is fine as it is.
This was good! And well-researched! And informative! But not particularly earth-shattering or compelling... the author spent a lot of time on motives, reasons, causes, and basically what COULD HAVE happened if x, y, and z would have gone differently. This expository information definitely gave the book more depth, but it also made events drag a little. Still, WOW. The amount of research required to write something like this blows my mind. (The book seems long, but the last 100ish pages are source notes haha.) And I learned SO MUCH, so I’d say this is definitely worth the read.
McCullough does it again !! His fascinating narrative about the trial and tribulations as Washington's troops suffer from the weather and defeats by the most powerful army in the world and still win is truly inspiring.
Being a fan of the TV series TURN: Washington's Spies, I had a particular interest in this book.
I listened to the audio book and McCullough also read the book in which he also is quite talented.The year 1776 was a very pivotal year in the American Revolution.
It was also year that did not go particularly well for General George Washington.
In the early days of the Revolutionary War, generals on both sides didn't have any idea the strength of the enemy and therefore made decisions on inadequate information.
Washington was an information-based general and wanted make decisions on what he knew.
McCullough does pay substantial tribute to George Washington.
Review of the audiobook narrated by the author.McCullough does a masterful job of setting the historical stage, introducing us to the characters and telling a comprehensive tale of the events of 1776, both in his own voice and (thanks to letters he researched) in the voice of many involved in the conflict.
The book focuses on George Washington as he played an important role in most of the events which are chronicled, which I liked because I don't know enough about our first President.
The is the second book I've listened to by McCullough, both narrated by the author.
McCullough deserves kudos for making a comprehensive story of one long-ago year's unfolding drama fresh and compelling. The myriad military personalities come to life and the details of the trials and victories of this ragtag rebel army made this memorable as well as fascinating to read. I'll be reading more of McCullough's work.
History is eminently fascinating but often sin written as such. Not a problem for McCullough. He novelizes history as well as anyone, but without sensationalizing. A thoroughly enjoyable and informative read.
This review could just be the reader, not the content. The audiobook was very boring and I felt myself getting easily distracted and stop paying attention. The book version may work better, if you're thinking of giving this one a try.
For star book for history buffs. Not a narrative, not an exciting dramatic take on the history, but the FACTS! A little dry for me, but because it is such high quality facts and so well researched I can't help but give it 4 stars.
Trust David McCullough to make a story you have heard many times still thrilling.
