https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/51550.Hell_s_Angel
The Angel story told by the longtime president of the Oakland chapter.
Bold and informative stuff, one would think, right?
He tells the reader nothing about what he feels, thinks, opines, or even guesses about any of the events of his life.
The book doesn’t reveal the answer.What does he think of Hunter Thompson?
“Chicken-shit,” of course, even though by Barger’s own admission Thompson told an Angel to his face he was a punk for hitting a woman and a dog.
That’s the basic problem with the book: everyone who isn’t Barger or Barger’s best buddy is a fool and coward, period.

I like Barger.
He's a blue-collar, no-shit guy from nowhere who became someone by virtue of simply being who he was.
There's nothing false about him - he simply serves it to you, in his voice and from his point of view.
Honestly, out of the autobiographies I've read, this is easily one of the most engaging.
It's not the greatest work of literature in the world, but it's well worth picking up and reading.
I read this book in one weekend, which means that it was captivating enough to keep me turning the pages, and the simplicity of the oral style didn't hold things up either.
But this is hardly surprising considering the fact that he is not only still a member in good standing, but as a former president of the Oakland chapter in their heyday and a living legend among his bros, he is practically THE spokesman for the club.
And, as a bonus, I also learned a lot of technical details about motorcycles...not bad for a weekend read.
I feel like I really I know Sonny Barger after reading Hell's Angels.
The best way I could describe Sonny after reading his autobiography would be as a very loyal and honest friend.
The founder of the world wide motorcycle club the " Hell's Angels" and the founder of a world wide brother hood, Sonny created an expansive sanctuary for those who wanted to be part of something.
Regardless of Sonny's past I believe he has a very large and warming heart which is portrayed in many of the stories considering him and his motorcycle club.
Outstanding read.
That said, there are of course a few exceptions…only, this book is not one of them but I have my reasons nonetheless.The biggest reason is that I have some personal history with Sonny that is admittedly a few degrees removed from myself.
The man has been everywhere and met everyone.Naturally, the subject matter may not be to everyone’s liking but in the end it should just be admitted that deep down we all have a certain fascination with rebels and outlaws.
I’m not sure if I would necessarily have Sonny over my own house for dinner like my grandparents did but I surely will give him some space on my bookshelf without hesitation.
3* review –
There were countless things the Hell's Angels should have gotten in trouble for individually but the governments main focus was trying to take down the whole club by whatever means possible, concocting stories, twisting facts, and trying to force conspiracies with informants planted in the club.There were a few memorable tales, one that made me laugh out loud (shamefully) was how the club members in a normal night of excessive drug and alcohol use decided a casket would make an excellent table for Sonny’s house, the next day he woke to a cool casket in his living room.
Sonny Barger's memoir of his life dedicated to the cause of the Hell's Angels Motorcycle Club is somewhat interesting, but poorly written, a bit on the redundant side and all-to-brief when Barger goes into some episode of violence/sex/philosophy of the biker that I wanted to know more on.
Barger's been either in the club, in prison [or both] for nearly his entire life so the man has dedicated everything to the Hell's Angels--maybe that's why he didn't really go full-bore with the stories.
They are often too brief as Barger just tells a little bit about this fight, murder, feud with other bikers.
This is certainly not a tell-all book by any means but does include quite a few juicy tidbits, mostly involving deceased members.Having been involved in one 9 what Barger called the big 4 (Outlaws) myself, I'm actually amazed this book exists at all.
MC's are closed societies like the Eagles Club, with private matters never revealed to non-members.
Unless one is a part of this life, it is impossible to imagine that the events truly happened, but I can honestly tell you, as unbelievable as you may find these stories, Barger has barely begun to reveal the true stories behind the MC closed doors.
Wow!
An interesting look at the history and development of the Hell’s Angels Motorcycle Club.
It does shy away from much of the criminal element of the One-Percenter world and instead focuses on the heart and origin of outlaw Motorcycle Clubs.
I think it is good at showing the true intention behind the formation of those older clubs as well as tell a lot of funny, crazy, and the sometimes very sad stories of Sonny Barger and his brothers.
Just keep in mind this is only one, one sided, story of this world and should be a part of a larger collection of reading material.
Barger comes across as someone who has got away with a lot more than he's letting on, and so can't say as much as he would like to, for fear of being called to account.
I don't wholly believe a lot of what Barger claims, and still question how a *club* whose only proclivity is to ride and party could support millions of dollars in legal costs, fighting a RICO case without a substantial source of combined income.What the book lacks most is emotional depth.
After reading about Barger overcoming drugs, jail, and a painful childhood, I could only think that writing a book was one of the easier things Sonny Barger did in his lifetime.I would recommend this book to anyone who is interested in motorcycling, The Hell's Angel's motorcycle gang, or a story about a hardworking man who made a name for himself and his brothers.
The life and times of Sonny Barger was a fascinating book that started with Sonny's true adventures of him riding across the country to different book signings for another book that he has written.
This book quells many myths about how the Hell's Angels are out to hurt people and cause anarchy, but how most of the Gang are just normal people that love to ride and have a great time with friends.
Reading this book gives a whole new level of respect from me for Sonny and the Hell's Angels.
I personally loved this book and thought it was very interesting to read, and would gladly recommend it to amyone.
Interesting history book.
By the way Barger points to Thompson as a chickenshit and his book being fantasy crap.
The Hell's Angels beat the daylights out of Thompson after his book was released and sent him packing.
In many ways their thinking reminds me of combat soldiers whose only purpose in the war is to protect and stand by the side their brother soldiers.
Without being in a combat their actions are senseless violence.
Barger talks about the Angel's history and his own with the violence completely unvarnished and for the most part unapologetic.
I had hoped for more.
More sex, more drugs, more wild details.
Sure, he mentioned all of those things but there were absolutely no juicy details.
The only times he gave details were when he was arrested (I guess that makes sense seeing as the cops know those details already so it can't get him in trouble with the law if he gives details about what happened in any situation.) I am sort of glad that I read it.
I was interested when he talked about his cancer and about his women.
All of the talk of book signings and motorcycle parts was very, very boring to me though.
Not sure he should write any more books though.
Sonny tells it like it is in this book, at least as much as is possible in a book about an organization surround by so much criminal activity.
Sonny's "job" was as a technical consultant for biker movies, and he held press conferences.
You would think a group involved in so much crime would shun the limelight as much as possible, but it seems like we're all attracted to fame like moths to a flame.It was interesting to me on one hand how self-destructive the 1% lifestyle is, and on the other how much some people were and are attracted to it.
Knygelė apie Hell's Angel's baikerių klubą, jo istoriją, nuotaikingam skaitymui prieš miegą: apie audringą gyvenimą, žudynes, narkotikus, seksą ir kalėjimą, o svarbiausia - laisvę, kai sėdi ant motociklo ir važiuoji kur akys neša, kas gali būti geriau, kai tuo metu gali pabėgti net nuo savęs..Kaip sakė Lietuvos HD klubo prezidentas, knyga neatspindi viso klubo žiaurumo, nes angelų vengia net pasaulio HD klubų nariai. Galima įsivaizduoti, kaip JAV farai bandė susidoroti su visu JAV angelų klubu sukūrę jiems specialų įstatymą, prieštaraujantį Konstitucijai, kuris leistu visus baikerius "susemti vienu metu".Rekomenduoju visiems, besidomintiems pašėlusiu gyvenimu, polėkiu ir, be abejo, baikeriais bei motociklais.
I think that Sonny Barger actually took his adventures in the motorcycle club seriously.
He believes that by riding his motorcycle and making a lot of money off of this book he is protecting America, and America equals freedom.
That said, I read the book as a big fat joke, and appreciated that he did not make any money off of me.
I believe wholeheartedly that most of the book was fluff for the fans, a compilation of little stories with no real plot and no need for one.
If dumb guys who think that hating women is okay don't amuse you, don't read this book.
This was a very weird and random read for me.
Albeit obviously biased (written by the leader of the Hell's Angels), I admit that I knew zilch about them beforehand and now can say I know more than zilch, from the group's perspective.
Testosterone on steroids, frat boys gone wild, a good old boys club doing really bad things...whatever.
I'm reminded of how much us human beings seek to belong to something - whether a social, political, or religious organization, private club, or in this case a group coming together based upon a mutually shared hobby.
Jesus Christ Man!
What can you say about the man that has not already been said.
He was a son of a bitch and I love him.
Fascinating read that gets you excited about hooliganism.
I can't say that I would want to hang out with Thompson, but I probably would have loved it.
His relationship with the good Doctor is probably the only reason to envy Johnny Depp.
To the book, well, it is just an exciting and detailed peek into the lives of men so free that we will likely never know how on the fringe of society people like this live.
A small part of the life and times of Sonny Barger and HAMC, from his point of view.
After reading the book I can tell for sure three things:- he is a tough, smart, energetic and charismatic asshole;- he is cosmetically enhancing his side of the story, leaving aside details that would disgust people (he's good PR also);- he can't write.
The book is barely passable although it is written with two guys who apparently are doing it for a living (they wrote for some mobster and for the Mythbusters guys, also).Am I sorry for the time spent reading it?
No. It's conveying information that I found interesting.
An interesting read because it provides a counterpoint to the works of Hunter Thompson and Stanley Booth's "Dance With the Devil" segments about the Rolling Stones at Altamont. Sonny Barger comes off media-savvy and often surprisingly charming and funny, though there are many moments in the book that history, documentary footage, court documents, other reportage and etc. just don't bear out. That said, it's a good read, and his insights on motorcycles are sometimes surprising (The Hell's Angels should give up Harleys? Japanese bikes are okay these days? Wow.)
Another great read.Forget what you know or what you think you know about the Hell's Angels.This is the true story from a founding member and iconic leader of the most famous Biker gang in history.Learn how and why the Angels were formed from the charismatic Sonny Barger.Sonny's story is entertaining and informative. Never dull.I read this book in less than a week as I couldn't put it down
WOW !!!Ralph " Sonny " Barger has a few amazing talents. First as an true outlaw Biker. Second is ability to tell an Amazing story of his up and down life. With the Wrap-Sheet of multiple people combined he is a true man's man. He tells his story without pulling punches and tells the truth no matter who it hurts. I don't ride yet but I plan to. If you want to see how a hard life is read this man's book it is definitely worth the price.
Being a biker myself, it was a good read. It tells some great firsthand stories of the biker lifestyle.
I read this book overnight. It is an interesting and exciting book.
Aside from the famous stabbing at Atlamont and the fact that I was pretty sure the MC “Sons of Anarchy” were modeled after were the Hell’s Angels, I knew next to nothing about the club before reading this book.
But since I was born almost 40 years after Sonny Barger, I’d never even heard his name until I saw it on the cover.What I found inside the book was a rather interesting account of the most notorious motorcycle gang, er, I mean club in American history.
Me he quedado a medias con las memorias de el líder de los "Ángeles del infierno" en los años 60.
Lo más entretenido son sus andanzas en la cárcel, las normas del club y el relato de lo ocurrido en el festival de Altamont durante el concierto de los Rolling Stones.
Lo demás es un poco repetitivo: hostias por aquí, navajazos por allá, compañeros muertos en accidentes de moto, juicios por un tubo, drogas a mogollón...
A lo mejor me han traicionado las expectativas o es que se ha guardado las mejores anécdotas para los otros libros que ha publicado a posteriori y que no han llegado a España aún.
