https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/503215._y_no_se_lo_trag_la_tierra_and_the_Earth_Did_Not_Devour_Him
The episode "The Night Before Christmas", in which the mother tries to make it to a store to buy presents, but succumbs to her agoraphobia, is full of horrorific but poetically evocative imagery: "She wanted to turn back but she was caught in the flow of the crowd which shoved her onward toward downtown and the sound kept ringing louder and louder in her ears." And again: "She even started hearing voices coming from the merchandise." "She only saw people moving about--their legs, their arms, their mouths, their eyes." And, "Then she lost consciousness of what was happening around her, only feeling herself adrift in a sea of people, their arms brushing against her like waves."And there is Dona Cuquita's lovely line near the end: "You're smarter than the eagle and more watchful than the moon." Rivera keeps his poetry strictly leashed, only permitting it to flash out in service of quite horrible moments: the heat, the mother's terror, the warped couple, the burning house.
I found myself flipping through it on Christmas Eve and came across a story called The Night Before Christmas, so of course, I had to read it. The story was beautiful and heart-wrenching, mimicking real life for many poor immigrant families.I borrowed this one from a friend in an effort to save a few bucks on school books, but the more I read, the more I think I'm going to go ahead and buy my own copy. This is one I'll want to pick up long after this class is over.
A detailed portrait of a Latino community is what Rivera managed to illustrate in his book. A community of the victims. A literature of the victims. Victims who, despite all adversities, never stop hoping.
The very first page was amazing, but unfortunately the rest of the novel didn't really follow suit. That said, it was still a really good story, with moving characters and interesting writing.
What at first seemed like a collection of short-stories or vignettes ended up being the rambling memories of a young boy.
Disjointed and confusing, they reflect the state of mind of the character by the end of the novel.
I think the fragmented nature of the novel really reflects how a child might experience and remember growing up in this life.
The interesting thing about the novel was the undercurrent of challenging the authority of religion throughout.
The narrator(s) (there seem to be multiple during the course of the book) question the existence of God numerous times, and there is a short paragraph where a priest is mocked.
"...And the Earth Did Not Devour Him" is an incomparable mix of voices and experiences that portray the life of the Mexican-American in the Southwestern United States during the 40s and 50s.
From a child who is expelled from school, to another who is the witness of a murder; from a mother who is afraid of going to the center to purchase gifts for her children, to another who returns home from the fields to save their children caught in a fire, the comparisons and the contrasts come together to reveal the different aspects, diversity, but at the same time the unity of this distinct ethnic group.
The book deals with identity issues in a small California town. The main character is pulled toward his traditionalist Mexican culture by his family, drawn to the American-lifestyle as it spreads into the newly formed American West, and tied to a religious lifestyle by his fear of angering God. Throughout all of this, the protagonist has to come to terms with the fact that he belongs to none of these social circles.
Reading this was like having an extremely unpleasant fever dream.
I read about this book from a history of Mexicans in America.
The author considered this a masterpiece of Mexican-American literature, showing the experience of migrant workers during the 1940's-50's.
It was a very short book comprised more of short vignettes then a solid storyline (even though all were tied in to an original character's memories).
Overall very good storytelling, emotionally charged as it was intended to be, but sometimes hard to figure out who was talking or who was involved in each chapter (since the main character has no name).
Recommended if you are interested in a lesser-known piece of American history.
As far as writing goes, what Rivera does in Y No Se Lo Trago La Tierra is unlike anything I've ever seen before.
I read this book in my Latinx Literature class and fell in love instantly.
This book tells the scattered stories of the children of migrant workers, with some chapters only a paragraph long, and does something poetic and reminiscent of tracking and documenting the scattered memories that follow us from childhood.
Poignant, tender, and real, Y No Se Lo Trago La Tierra is a book you will never forget.
This book is very disjointed and difficult to decipher, but that really adds to the dream-like atmosphere. There is a lot of tragedy in it but it colors so directly and bluntly the struggles of the Mexican-American migrant workers who live in poverty and constantly have their lives uprooted to work, only to be met with poor working conditions, abuse, and scarcely any pay. Although a bit confusing and disorienting, it is an easy and gripping read.
A story written out of time, making the reader feel disoriented. But with this disorientation comes a stronger focus on the scene and the emotions called forth. Everything is much more intense and immediate. A bit like going down the rabbit hole, the reader is forced to feel the broken hours and torn continuum of time that the displaced feel. Ingeniously written.
Que literatura tan especial! Cualquiera se lo debe leer, pero especialmente aquellos que son chicanx. Con un poco de humor negro, aprenda de nuestra cultura y comunidad--lo bonita y lo malo. Aplaudo a Rivera por un excelente trabajo!
The structure of this novel is not a traditional narrative, and I sometimes had trouble following the action, but eventually it all came together for me. I was deeply moved by the experiences related in the novel and I have decided to teach it in my English classes this year.
Powerfully awakening into a culture different than my own. I so appreciate these insights.
Great -- underrated. A short, Joycean narrative about migrant Mexican workers.
Beautiful language. I might try to read the Spanish version soon!
yes
+ short and interesting stories+ life of a minority+ cultural specifications+ clash of cultures
La parte en inglés y la parte en español se me hacen súper distintas. Lo pasé bien leyendo pero no me mató.
... And the Earth Did Not Devour Him bounced around between migrant workers in a community without warning so felt a bit disjointed. The related readings continued with more structured stories.
NICE
This book, originally written in Spanish, describes in short vignettes the lives of Mexican American migrant workers in the '40's and '50's.This is both thought provoking and horrific.
There are so many awful incidents in this very short book: violent tragic deaths of childre and adults; workers, including children packed into a van so tightly they had to stand up for a several day trip to more northern fields; the constant abuse and harassment that the migrant children endured in local schools.This book is eye opening and saddening.
I am distressed to learn that current migrant workers face many of the same conditions.Recommended especially for those interested in social justice issues.
and the earth did not devour him was a truly inspiring book to read.
these short stories give you more insight then a 2 hour documentary on the migrant farm workers experience.
some of us have heard about the migrant workers struggles, if you have not then i encourage you to read this book or get some background information on the topic.
this book transports you to a poor community of migrant workers where all they have are each other, their work, and their faith.
this book tells us the touching story of how families made it through these rough times and how some people didn't.
Full of questions and confusion, the narrator, is having a year in where he doesnt even know his own identity; there is a voice calling him which he later finds out to be him.The factors, education and personality, are factors that determine your identity.
The narrator was a migrant worker who motivated himself to go to school and better himself.
On the other hand, if I were a migrant worker I believe that i would remain a farmer.
In days like these in America, education is the only way people will have interest in promoting you to a career.

When i started reading it, i was kind of confused by the order of the vignettes.
I really truly loved the book.
I personally loved it because i am Mexican.
I didn't even know Tomas Rivera.
Until i read the book.
I have never really experienced none of this examples Tomes Rivera says in the book.
I have only seen it on t.v or on the computer, Or either have read it or heard it.
And i kind of feel bad that i have never seen it because i feel like i do not belong to mexicans.
I really loved the book.
"And the Earth Did Not Devour him" is a heart-felt story of danger, love betrayal, fears, and the passion for the character's family.
In this book, was surprised with the fact that all of the vinets connected at the end.
I truly loved it.
I think that this is a truly wonderful book.
But, I do know that anyone who reads this book will fall in love from the very begging.My favorite line, BY FAR, is: "Were is Utah?" "I don't know compadre, but I think it is somewhere near Japan." HAH HAH!
This book gave a very interesting view into the migrant workers of the United States.
Some instances, like when the child is trying to evoke the devil by cursing at him, made me laugh while I was reading it.I really enjoyed how true the characters were to themselves in their stories.
Even though we weren't following a single character the entire way through, all of the stories were connected in some way.
Even still, we got great glimpses into their lives and the lives of a lot of immigrants in the United States.Overall, I really enjoyed reading this book.
Mateo Grau-Rodríguez per 3 And The Earth Did Not Devour Him This book is a different type of book from what you normally read. It is fiction that tells a little bit about how farmworkers lives are. This book is written both in English and Spanish. Even though I am a native Spanish speaker, the Spanish in the book was very particular.This book describes how hard life is for farmworkers. In the book the young boy has to skip school to go work in the farms to earn money for his family. The author
In the book the young boy has to skip school to go work in the farms to earn money for his family.
The author of the book is Tomás Rivera who also worked in the farms as a young boy growing up.
Tomás shows some examples about how children have to skip school and change to different schools throughout the whole school year just to have to work on the farms.
I suggest this book if you are interested in reading about the lives of different types of people.
