https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/27699.Living_My_Life_Vol_2
This is the second part of Emma Goldman’s memoirs of life as an anarchist in the early years of the Twentieth Century, and it describes the later, more “mature” (or at least older) segment of her career as a revolutionary.
She and Berkman slowly come to realize that the “Workers’ State” is as much a sham as any capitalist one, and this section includes fascinating details of the revolutionary period and its developments.By the end of the book, Emma lives in London, in exile from both the US and USSR, and spends most of her time lecturing about the past.
For her many attempts to achieve change, Emma was deported from the USA to Russia under horrific conditions.
The 2nd volume covers her two years in Russia, her struggle to come to grips with the horrific truths, especially in regards to the Kronstadt murders.
She met his wife who tried to convince Emma & Sasha to meet with him.
Emma soon learned of Maknov's wife's arrest and then murder, but was not in a secure position to meet with Maknov to help continue the struggle.Tired and devasted, Emma left for England; after mediocer success there, she made several appearances in Canada.
O MY GAWD.I'm so in love with Emma after reading this book. Such a fascinating book. What a life she led! And she drops so many names of other anarchists and activists that this book will be a great reference for further research. It's 950 pages but it's such a fun page turner. It's not too long.
someday i will write an alternative history short story i came up with when i read these 2 volumes way back when...
This is vol 2, starting on page 504.Bailed early; just could not get interested.
I've been meaning to study more the history of the Russian Revolution, and beginning that with the memoirs of an anarchist was accidental, but illuminating.
Reading this book, about some of the most dramatic events that have taken place in the last 100 years of human history, has made me reflect a lot.
What does revolution mean?
Why does it all even matter?I confess that I finished the book feeling a little gloomy, particularly when Emma described the Soviet slaughter of the town of Kronstadt.
The book made me feel a little defeatist and depressed.
This was my first time reading the second volume of this autobiography.
In general, I enjoyed the first volume better, I think because it had more details about her personal life.
Romantically, she kind of slows down at this point in her life, although I was cheered that she had an affair with someone much younger than her when she was in her 50s.
The central part about her time spent with Sasha in Russia however, were illuminating.
Maybe it was a different time then, and it took longer for idealistic people to stop believing in something.
It made me want to read more about the Kronstadt rebellion.
Not as interesting as Vol. 1, but once I picked it up, I still couldn't put it down. Emma's ability to convey anything in a captivating manner is on display, and a large portion of the book is taken up with her account of Russia in the years following the revolution of 1917. She provides an excellent first hand perspective of the hypocrisy and abuses and their variability across the country which culminates in a scathing critique of the Dictatorship of the Proletariat. As such, this book's historical importance cannot be overstated.
I have to admit to preferring the first volume, when Emma was young and starry eyed and full of positive energy. This volume is sad and written by a woman who begins to feel defeated by the world. That said I love this way of learning history and learned more about the Russian revolution, Lenin and Trotsy than I ever thought I would. If there was a third book I would read it, but sadly this is the end of Emma's autobiography.
Most of this part is about Goldman's time in Lenin and Trotsky's Russia. Devastating account of that despotic regime. Extremely depressing exposé of the fraud of the Russian Revolution. I can't figure out why Emma didn't join the Maknovist anarchists. I really wished she did, so sad she didn't...oh, Kronstadt, oh Ukraine, oh Russia! What suffering! So sad!
An incredible finish to nearly a 1000 page memoir of E.G. The most fascinating chapter for me was her discussion of Bolshevik Russia and the destruction of the Revolutionary ideal via the dictatorship under Lenin and Trotsky. I thought it ended rather abruptly unfortunately. I highly recommend this work. Both volumes give a tremendous history of the U.S. and world politics. I <3 Emma Goldman! :)
