https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1886928.The_Mask_of_Cthulhu
August Derleth saw himself as H.P. Lovecraft's natural heir, weaving his stories into the Cthulhu Mythos and incorporating the 'dreadful events in Innsmouth' and other incidents from the original corpus.
His early championship of his master helped to ensure that Lovecraft became a cultural phenomenon, heir to Poe in leading the American tradition of horror and influencer of popular culture.
The American Government in Innsmouth would have had every right to slaughter the half-breeds whereas Derleth sometimes sees them as sentient 'others' to which he, like some of his heroes, are drawn.
Muchos le achacan la explotación de la obra del Maestro de Providence, pero también hay que tener en cuenta que hizo todo lo posible, junto a Donald Wandrei, para que se publicase.Derleth también acuñó el término de Mitos de Cthulhu y siguió promoviendo, como hacía Lovecraft en vida, que otros escritores contribuyesen son sus relatos a la riqueza de este universo.
A mí personalmente, no me disgusta, y me parece interesante conocer más referencias sobre los Mitos.En cuanto a cómo escribe Derleth, sus relatos no están tan sobrecargados en descripciones como los de Lovecraft.
A collection of Lovecraftian short stories by editor supremo August Derleth that seek to build on the Cthulhu Mythos in various ways.
The stories are as follows:THE RETURN OF HASTUR - a man moves into the home of a deceased relative and uncovers a mysterious, water-filled subterranean tunnel and a library of ancient, evil texts.
Business as usual then, but the story is heavy on atmosphere and Derleth adds his own spin by depicting a cosmic battle between Hastur and Cthulhu.
3/5THE HOUSE IN THE VALLEY - One of Derleth's better entries into the Lovecraftian genre, this effort sees a man moving into a newly-rented home which has the inevitable dark history involving the Deep Ones and Cthulhu himself.
Lovecraft's narrators stumble on ancient horrors and don't really know anything about them, but every one of Derleth's heroes manages to acquire or borrow the entire library of banned occult books in the Lovecraft corpus and they all become experts on Derleth's version of the mythos lickety-split.
And when something is explained at great length, it just stops being unnameable, unimagined horror and gets very prosaic.The stories were originally published separately, in various issues of Weird Tales, and I'm sure they were more effective as stand-alones because they all have the same basic plot and mention the same events from Lovecraft stories.
I have yet to read every single story by him but I know a lot about Cthulhu Mythos.
Derleth changed a lot about what is called today Cthulhu Mythos.
Unfortunally he also created the Elder Gods who want to protect humankind.
isn't it?Derleth also tried to explain a lot about the Mythos destroying (in my humble opinion) what Lovecraft expected to achieve.
now look at the plots and characters.-Every single story is told in the first person point of view;-In the first story a man inherits a house full of occult books and his curiosity made him realize the full extend of Cthulhu mythos.
Yeah, yeah, I know, minds says that this is four stars maximum. But I was so, so happy to read new creepy stories about Cthulhu that managed to ignore that retcons which Derlecht did to Lovecraft's original creation. You know, Lovecraft's works give you an itching from the teases of cosmic horrors and ancient mysteries. Derleht give you the opportunity to scratch that itching. For that, he deserves five stars!
I dreamed I was in a far place, a place of vast monolithic buildings, inhabited not by men, but by beings apart from the wildest imagination of men, a land of great unknown tree ferns, of Calamites and Sigillaria surrounding the fantastic buildings of that place, of fearsome forests of trees and other growths belonging to no known terrestrial place.Not quite the exuberant purple prose of Lovecraft, but still a lot of fun.
Lovecraft made the Philips and the Marshes infamous in their devotion to the Great Old Ones, particularly Cthulu.
This Cthulu-loving couple adds an unusual and sensual element to these stories, as evidenced by this passage: Ada flashed ahead of me, and I followed.
A quick run down of every story in this collection:I arrive at the house of some long dead/estranged/missing relative. The neighbours hate and fear the house, and don't trust me. When I poke around, I find the secret occult library with every book H.P. Lovecraft ever mentioned in his stories. Somebody/something dies, and all eyes turn to me. I know not why.I have dreams about Cthulhu.When I awaken, I find those dreams are real!!!!The end.Maybe I should have written ***SPOILER ALERT!!!*** across the top of this review.
Mediocre pastiches can potentially be impressive to new readers, but if you're familiar with the pastiched author's style you begin to see that this is not art, and the reader can perhaps visualise the author flicking through a Lovecraft story as he writes, cribbing arbitrarily an unintentional parody of that great author's style to create a jumble of gibberish purely for commercial purposes...but wait?I can hear the piping of the whippoorwills outside and the gelatinous footsteps on the boards above. A knock at the door? I will not yield! I will not yield! I will not--
so derleth is clearly not lovecraft, but i still mostly enjoyed reading these stories..i don't really remember the first few all that well, as he tends to use the same story structure in each one..they all kinda blend together. However, The House In The Valley and The Seal of R'yleh both deviate enough from the formula to be compelling additions to the HPL mythos.
Six Cthulhu mythos stories by August Derleth, and they aren't bad. Probably includes the best ones he did in the mythos. Includes "The Whippoorwills in the Hills," and "The Return of Hastur."Pretty good stuff.
Very repetitive, you can tell these stories were written for individual consumption. The House in the Valley is really atmospheric and presents the narrator as being caught between a human threat and the cosmic terror beneath the house.
A slightly strange but by no means terrible pastiche of Lovecraft with a bit too much of Cthulhu coming from behind every door and having them casually slammed in his face.
Perhaps the original successor to Lovecraft this tale perfectly captures the dark sense of foreboding as the existential dread begins to set in.
“Return of Hastur” was also pretty good, esp for those that enjoy tracing the history of the Great Old Ones throughout the Cthulhu Mythos, since this was Hastur’s first inclusion as a GOO.
I even quite enjoyed “The Sandwin Compact” and a little less “The Whippoorwills in the Hills” (though the “Rats in the Walls” reveal was a little less impactful here), but reading all of these back to back made the flaws in the middle stories a bit more noticeable.
Reading the stories with a bit more time in between might have helped my enjoyment.I’m going to tackle Trail of Cthulhu next, since all of the stories are interconnected I’m hoping that makes them flow well and feel less copy/paste.
Now that that is out of the way, let me be clear: August Derleth is a TERRIBLE author and his Lovecraft-inspired writings are absolute RUBBISH next to HPL.
I can do no better than quote Clark Ashton Smith, who told Derleth in a very pointed letter:  "you have tried to work in too much of the Lovecraft mythology and have not assimilated it into the natural body of the story."That simple sentence alone describes EVERY mythos-based story in this entire book.
Every story mentions at least a half dozen to a dozen of the Great Old Ones.
Who let August Derleth touch Lovecraft's work? Who thought that was a good idea? Because it wasn't.
P. De su mano nacieron varios libros de relatos que continúan la labor de su preceptor.Uno de esos libros es "La máscara de Cthulhu", publicado en 1958.
La obra recoge seis relatos cargados de ingredientes que despiertan la inquietud y el miedo en aquellos que se adentran en sus historias, todas ellas relacionadas con seres humanos que, por una u otra circunstancia, se convirtieron en receptores de la enorme maldad de los secuaces de Cthulhu, o de la propia bestia anfibia que descansa bajo el mar, durmiendo su muerte, esperando el momento de despertar.
'The Mask of Cthulhu' is probably best enjoyed in small doses, since reading the whole collection in one voluminous bite reveals a distinct lack of variety in each fiendish tale of slumberous batrachian maleficence.
Derleth isn't on par with his master; but his enthusiasm for all things Dagon is wholly contagious; in point of fact, I suddenly find that I cannot ignore the shrill, pipe-like ululations that currently abound in my beleaguered skull meat; a dreadful susurrous that draws me inexorably towards the chill, infernal depths of a primeval sea, wherein the great, octopoid dreamer lies terribly supine, boiling in eternal contemplation of darkling horrors unimaginable to the prosaic reasoning of man!
Creating your own press to republish your hero's work to make him better remembered, then publishing your own, let's face it, fan fiction, in "collaboration" may have the end result of having that hero remembered but doesn't make one a great writer.
Derleth is really an awful writer with really little ability beyond parroting the other writers who's work he very clearly loved and admired (Lovecraft, Conan Doyle, Smith).
He's like a little kid wandering into his parent's closet and wearing their clothing, and then thinking that this is all it takes to "be like Daddy".
Ο Λάβκραφτ είναι ο άνθρωπος που δημιούργησε τη μυθολογία Κθούλου, αλλά ποτέ δεν την οργάνωσε. Ο άνθρωπος που το έκανε αυτό είναι ο Ντέρλεθ, ο οποίος συνέβαλε στην περαιτέρω διάδοση του έργου του. ο Ντέρλεθ όμως έγραψε και δικά του διηγήματα που ανήκουν στη μυθολογία Κθούλου και πέραν το ότι είναι πολύ κοντά στο στυλ του Λαβκραφτ κατάφερε να δώσει και το δικό του στίγμα. Απλά διαβάστε τις ιστορίες που περιέχονται στο συγκεκριμένο βιβλίο και θα καταλάβετε ότι πολλές σκηνές που περιγράφει έχουν επηρεάσει μεγάλους σκηνοθέτες όπως για παράδειγμα τον Σαμ Ραϊμι στην ταινία του Evil Dead. Απολαυστικότατο βιβλίο.
I enjoyed this book. None of the stories were outstanding, and many of the stories had a similar structure. The writing was serviceable, not outstanding, and not as ornate as Lovecraft. He has also combined Clark Ashton Smith's Elder Gods with Lovecraft's Mythos and tried to unify everything, but he tends to overuse the same beings over and over again without really adding anything new. But on the whole, these stories were fun, if uninspired, and I enjoyed reading this book. Just don't start the book expecting writing like Lovecraft's, because that just isn't here.
I finished this little gem today. Although I know some Lovecraft purists might feel different. Derleth did a awesome job keeping the Mythos alive in the Lovecraft fashion. I once posted that The Lurker at the Threshold has to be the most important book of the mythos, Somehow Derleth kept that magic alive post Lovecraft. The Return of Hastur is based on notes that Derleth found writen by Lovecraft. The creepiness of the town of Innsmouth and the quest to raise the Old Ones kept me on edge. Can not wait to read The Trail of Cthulhu.
Allein für sich mögen einige der Geschichten ganz nett sein, leider aber nicht mehr. So auf einem Haufen und hintereinander gelesen hat es leider einen Lawinen-Effekt, wenn seltene Bücher und Gegenstände doch scheinbar an jeder Ecke verfügbar sind - das drückt die Stimmung doch schon sehr. Hingegen sind einige Aspekte echt stimmungsvoll inszeniert, aber es bleibt hinter den großen Vorbildern zurück.Alles in allem: ganz nett, geht aber besser.
If someone read only one story from the whole Cthulhu mythos, and it was one of these, he'd feel he's witnessing some sort of inside joke that is making August Derleth laugh himself silly. Even I feel the same way. It's like reading someone's fan-fiction about a pop band you don't know. Not even much better than fan-fiction, really.
Stories based on the writings of H. P. Lovecraft. I enjoyed these much more than the original works. Recommended
Formulaic, repetitive, and lacking all of the mystery and weirdness which was the best thing about the Lovecraft stories Derleth is trying to copy.
Nothing special.
I have a version not to be found here on GoodReads. (I will try and remedy that one of these days.)
I can't believe I didn't discover Lovecraft before now!
