https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/321544.The_Heaven_Tree_Trilogy
This is one of the finest historical fiction novels out there.
Technically it's three novels, but they all blur into one.
The story revolves around a trio of people bound together in ways they don't understand: a ruthless English lord, his enigmatic Italian mistress, and the talented stonemason who builds the lord's cathedral.
The characters are wonders.
The stonemason hero is so pure and good he is nearly a saint, yet without ever being saccharine or unrealistic.
The lord is a villain who earns first our undying hatred, and then our unwilling love as he redeems himself.
A miracle of a book.
The first book in the trilogy, The Heaven Tree, tells the story of master stonemason Harry Talvace as he is hired by Ralf Isambard to build him a great cathedral at Parfois along the Welsh Marches.
Harry makes a desperate choice to save a child from hanging that has dire consequences for himself, his wife and Benedetta, although Harry returns to his commitment to complete the cathedral despite the sentence of a traitor's death hanging over him.
It's not quite as perfect a read for me as Penman's Here Be Dragons, but pretty darn close, and that final scene in the cathedral between Isambard, Benedetta and Master Harry (I'm not telling!) was nothing short of perfection.
I think I read the first book in the trilogy around 1993 or '94. Not sure when I finished them. Brilliant writing, profoundly moving, redemptive, thought-provoking. Takes place in the Middle Ages. Central character an artist of great integrity. Harder to find in this country. Edith Pargeter is the real name of Ellis Peters, author of the Brother Cadfael mysteries. The Heaven Tree was, by her admission, her best work, and I'd have to agree.
I bought these books in a bookstall in the Leeds train station in 1969, when I was 15, and they rocketed to the top of my favorites list, where they remain to this day. Fascinating characters, a great story. Until I discovered Dorothy Dunnett, these were the measuring stick by which I measured all other historical fiction.
The only thing I can come up with is that Pargeter reminds me of my own writing (though hers is obviously better).
Not because the book was exceptionally predictable, but just because it’s what I would’ve had happen next in the plot or what I would’ve made the character say as well.
Not in a weird way or anything, but people are forever putting a bracing hand on someone’s shoulder or hugging someone or nudging someone, things like that.
For me, I do the same thing with facial expressions, particularly smiles.
I read this quite recently which is amazing since I read other Edith Pargeter works when her books were more contemporary. I loved this trilogy - I bought each book separately from picking one up in a charity shop. the beauty of the words, the romance, that harshness of the times - wondrous stuff.. the books are on my shelf for me to re-discover in a few years time...
In the reign of King John, however, English/Welsh conflicts heat, and Isambard, Lord of Parfois, orders Harry horribly killed for treason.
Then, in The Green Branch (1962), young Harry, son of the craftsman--who had finished his church in chains- -matches wits with the Lord of Parfois, awaiting revenge.
Eventually, while war rages betwen the English and Welsh, old man Isambard and Benedetta will die magnificently, Aida- fashion, in the boarded-up church; and young Harry will find a bride, see war as both an Englishman and Welshman, witness the end of Parfois--and of hatred--and know that his father's church, now in fragments, ``will wear out the stone.
This trilogy had all my favorite things. History of Wales and England during the turbulent 13th century, stone masons building a church much like Pillars of the Earth, characters you either hated or loved, and each edition left me needing to pick up the next book to see what happened. I even liked the way it ended, weaving together all of the pieces rather seamlessly. I loved it.
This series is about:life and deathdefeat and victorybetrayal and loyaltyhonor and wickednessrevenge and forgivenesssuffering and joydespair and hopecreation and destructionendings and regenerationroyalty and tradesmannobility and servantsfeeling and reasontruth and falsehoodcaptivity and freedom.Additional themes are politics, personal ambition, art & beauty, the making/ developing/ character of a man.
Speaking of men, the friendship between the two leading men is wonderfully done.
Both men are strong characters, who respect and help each other throughout their lives, and model the kind of friendship we all treasure.This is a series to be read and reread.
For men, there are strong male leads, and women there are touches of romance.
This is a story of the Middle Ages, when great cathedrals were being built all over Europe.
Thefirst book is set mostly in France, where they meet a nobleman who hires them to build a cathedral for his estate in England.
The story follows the building of the cathedral, the stonemason and his family and how his work affects the lives of the nobleman and his family.
The author, Edith Pargenter who wrote the Brother Cadfael mysteries under the name of Ellis Peters is thoroughly acquainted with the Middle Ages in England.
Heer history is accurate, her characters unforgetable and her books are very hard to put down.
A war on the border of Wales and England.
This is the story of Harry the sculptor and stone mason; Isambard, the lord of Parfois, a medieval castle at the border of Wales, and Madonna Bennedetta, the beautiful woman loved by Isambard who loves Harry.
A rather routine love triangle, a story that is anything but routine.
The three books tell the story of them, and then Harry's son; the four of them inextricably bound in love and envy and hatred and tragedy and ultimately forgiveness and compassion.
Very powerful.
Masterfully told, beautifully wrought in the subtlety and power of the relationships between the four.
The Heaven Tree was vivid with excellent characterization, esp.
the resourceful Benedetta.
It was also an emontional bungee jump, so I need a pause to catch my breath before going on to The Green Branch and The Scarlet Seed.
I hope the second and third novels match the first in breadth.
Update, June 31, 2011.
The Green Branch and The Scarlet Seed delivered just as much intrigue and suspense in a harsh yet rich medievalsetting as did The Heaven Tree.
What I truly appreciate about this trilogy is how the major characters achieve depth over the story's 35-year span, so that their choices toward the end are completely appropriate, yet still capable of leaving the reader surprised.
This trilogy takes the entire first book to get into the story. It's beautiful and sometimes shocking. In a nutshell it's the story of a young man's "duty" to avenge his father's blood. But he finds himself surprisingly held back from doing so.The book's strongest point besides just being fascinating, is how it shows how human hatred and vengeance can be - they falter, they can be indecisive, they can flare up violently over the most foolish things.Worthwhile, which is good, cuz it takes a while.
I have no words. This book is intense, deep, and enveloping- passionate, rich, and indescribably wonderful. Any lover of Tolkien, fan of historical fiction, or romantic should read it. Simple as that.
This is a trilogy set in medieval England, the chaotic rule of King John.These are a series of exceptional novels and the characters stay with you as any well remembered individual you met in real life. It is that evocative, that beautifully written and that haunting.
Edith Pargeter, best known for her Brother Cadfael mysteries written under the nom de plume Ellison Peters, was nothing if not a romantic.
The trilogy (The Heaven Tree; The Green Branch; The Scarlet Seed) is set in the English march country and Wales in the first 30 or so years of the 13th century and it follows the lives of an English nobleman who becomes a stone mason/builder, his foster-brother, a Venetian courtesan, a lord of the marches, and others.
(The is a period of time also beautifully covered in her books that make up "The Brothers of Gwynedd Quartet.)Ms. Pargeter created memorable characters and was expert at breathing life into them.
One of my favorites.
Sometimes difficult to read, sometimes a pure pleasure.
History sort of bent around a story, but well worth it.
The general events are accurate for the time and the real life characters inserted, so the creative license to fit them to a well written story is perfectly legitimate.
Its moving because it is a story of learning to understand the differences in all of us and the self-imposed goals we place on ourselves.
They don't always turn out the way we want them to, and sometimes things we do not believe are going the way we want, prove to be the most valuable experiences of all.
The Heaven Tree Trilogy by Edith Pargeter is an excellent set of books.
I was completely unable to put it down.
Even when flying, I had no interest in watching a movie as the book was much more riveting.
The book is historical fiction based in 13th century England and Wales.
It is full of adventure but not an adventure story, has romance without being a romance and mystery without being a mystery.
The characters are real, deeply flawed yet likeable.
The plot line has elements that are too predictable and unfortunately a bit tacky, while other elements are complex and unpredictable.
One of my friends just noticed that I "always recommend long books," and this would fit that bill at ~800 pages. But it's worth it if you like art and are interested in medieval-era history. This is the story of two stone carvers, one free and one a slave, who grow up as best friends and then have to contend with reality when they realize one can go wherever he likes and the other can lose his hand for a mistake. So they (Harry and Adam) run away and help build Notre Dame ... and have other adventures.
This is a gorgeous story set in England and Wales in the 13th century.
The first book in the trilogy was originally meant to be the whole story, and it could stand by itself...but I'm glad it doesn't.
The story follows Harry Talvace, a young man of a good Norman family in England, who renounces his heritage to become a mason and becomes entangled in a love triangle when he agrees to build a church for the English nobleman Ralf Isambard.
The history and politics of England and its relations with Wales at the time play a role in the story, and there is a truly great villain.
This book takes place in the 1200's in England, and Wales. It follows a young Mason through his life, and then his son. It is a historical fiction that has a lot of political view points of England vs. Wales, and some French in there as well. There is also a lot of war and battles in the book. I enjoyed the raw emotions of the characters they most out of the book. There is tragedy, and well as joy.
One of those books that makes you think about calling in sick you can stay home and read. I didn't think the second and third books quite held up to the promise of the first (and they contained much more tedious political maneuvering), but still kept me riveted right to the end. I'm not a huge fan of historical fiction, and he first few pages are a bit tough while you adjust to the language and figure out the relationships, but I highly recommend sticking with it.
I thoroughly enjoyed this beautifully written story set in 13th century on the border between England and Wales. It is filled with memorable characters include Master Stone Mason Harry Talvace, Lord Ralph Isambard, Madonna Benedetta, England's King John, and Llewelyn the Great of Wales. The story continues through The Heaven Tree, The Green Branch and The Scarlet Seed and will be an excellent choice for readers of historical fiction.
Although I couldn't always follow much of the battle and court issues (the "olde" English was a little hard to follow), I though all 3 books were great. I don't think they should be read separately, or out of order, though. These were about Harry, Adam, their friends and family--stone cutters around 1200 AD, with King John and his son, King Henry.
I've always enjoyed Brother Cadfael mysteries, so I was keen to give this book by the same author (under a different name) a try. It was wonderful, truly fabulous. It's the sort of book that will take up residence in my mind and add a new dimension to many things for me from here on out.
I don't re-read books too often, but this is one I need to revisit, perhaps in its audiobook version. One of the best historical fiction books (by one of the best historical fiction authors, also known as Ellis Peters -- the Cadfael mysteries were written by her) I can think of.
One of my all time favorites. More than ten years later, the characters are still alive in my imagination. Love, intrigue, medieval culture, and artisan's compulsion to follow his vision combined for a long and fascinating read.
This is a trilogy set in the middle ages about a stone cutter who works on cathedrals. Great characters. It's one of those books that you hate to see end.
The first of these books is my favourite. If a book gets me so emotionally involved that I cry I know it's good. This is one of the 5 that have achieved that.
I am grateful to have tracked it down.This trilogy includes The Heaven Tree, The Green Branch and The Scarlet Seed, which tell of a man, Harry Talvace, a stone mason in medieval times at the border of England and Wales.
Growing up with his "breast-brother" Adam, Harry finds himself apt in the talents of Adam's father, a stone mason.
In background reading about King John in another book, I found mention of aFrench engineer, Isambard of Saintes, who brought to completion the bridge across the Thames, opened in 1206.
I wondered if Pargeter's Isambard, also interested in architecture, was based on reality.I recommend this series highly.
