https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/4698524-the-new-revelation
This book is a bit difficult to review, it's a collection of A.C Doyle's experience with spiritism, a subject on which I have "des opinions reservées" and that needs more digging.
(Personally, I believe their collective misinformation only proves these spirits can't be trusted at all, even when seemly in agreement on certain things.)Doyle goes on to pooh-pooh the Christian notion that messages received from the great beyond might actually be from demons or other sinister forces intent on keeping their real identity a secret.
Interestingly, despite acknowledging God's existence, these beings are quick to take issue with the Bible's claims regarding Jesus as Savior, the significance of Christ's death on the cross, God's penalty for sin, etc.--in other words, everything that makes Christianity essential and sets it apart from other religions.
The New Revelation, (suomennettu nimellä Haudantakainen elämä) kuvaa monia spiritistisiä istuntoja, vainajien yhteydenottoja sekä poltergeist-ilmiöitä, joista usemmat ovat kirjoittajan itsensä todistamia.
Hänen uskonsa spiritismiin on pitkän kehityksen tulos, eikä Doyle jätä mainitsematta kaikkea sitä huijausta ja huuhaata jonka itse henkilökohtaisesti joutui kohtaamaan etsiessään pitäviä todisteita hengen säilymisestä kuoleman yli.
Uskovaisten pitäisi kuunnella henkien todistuksia nimenomaan uskonsa vahvistamiseksi.
Doyle viittaa Raamattuun ja etenkin Uuteen Testamenttiin ja löytää mielestään todisteita siitä että alkukristityt eivät pitäneet yhteyttä henkimaailmaan mitenkään epätavallisena, puhumattakaan synnillisenä.
Kielillä puhuminen, parantaminen, sekä muut ihmeet ovat hänen mukaansa puhtaasti spiritistisiä ilmiöitä ja yhdenmukaisia hänen henkilökohtaisten kokemustensa kanssa.
Jonkinlaisen kiirastulen vastineen Doyle tästä henkien maailmasta kuitenkin löytää.
A very interesting insight into the Spiritualist beliefs held by Sir Arthur Conan Doyle. As you read it is clear how passionate he was about Spiritualism, something that I wouldn't have previously associated with him.
This book is a discussion about spiritualism, religion, men, faith, and the afterlife, topics about which Doyle wanted his writing to be remembered for. It doesn’t read preachy, rather it comes off like a conversation with an open minded friend.
If I say something it must be true, seems to have been his method of writing this. Not a scrap of intellectual rigour.
This book is a great, clever, and comfortable oneI love you Doyle!!
These are meandering ramblings of Arthur Conan Doyle from the 1910s on the subject of psychic phenomena, spirit communication and life after death.
He had made numerous acquaintances with psychics and recipients of such communications from ‘beyond the veil.’ He had also read a quantity of literature on the subject and recommends a number of books (most of which are now unavailable).
The title of the book is pretentious as its contents can hardly be called a “new revelation.” Being a famous author, Doyle used his writings and public appearances as a catalyst to create curiosity and lend some legitimacy to communication with the dead.
The book was very eloquently and clearly written. It offers blatant evidence as to his beliefs, but at the same time offers evidence that may contradict it including physical evidence, other opinions, and literary works by previous proclaimed authors. This book about what may happen after death captures my interest but feels as if I am missing something at the end. This would be a good project that would help with critical thinking skills or building an argument to contradict what is said.
I gave this one extra star than it deserved because it was fairly well written. Also, the author was so clear and precise in his logical fallacies that they were blatantly obvious. I thought this book would be a good project in critical thinking. Someone should go through and annotate it as a kind of skeptical commentary on how smart people delude themselves.
Doyle applies the logic that characterizes Holmes to the issue of "spiritualism"--the existence of spirit apart from matter.
I found it fascinating to learn of this whole other side of Sir Arthur Conan Doyle. I'm grateful that he allowed us the opportunity to witness his thought process as he evaluated spiritualism.
