https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/888628.Neuromancer
Eureka!...Hallelujah!...I've had a wondrous epiphany!I finally get it...I have seen the light and understanding has dawned. Gibson’s manifest brilliance has revealed itself to me and I am left humbled and quivering in AWE. After a rocky, tumultuous courtship that oscillated between respect and frustration through my first two readings of Neuromancer, number 3 became the CHARMing, rapturous awakening into a hopelessly devoted, head over heals love affair that I’m confident will last a lifetime.
From Neuromancer's memorable first words, “The sky above the port was the color of television, tuned to a dead channel” to the final, mind-shattering conclusion of the mystery of Winter Mute...this novel is probably the greatest example of life imitating art that literature has ever known and our world would be profoundly different, for good or for ill, in the absence of this amazing work.
MORE THOUGHTS:Gibson’s prose is like nothing I have read before and it took me a while to come to grips with that statement.
Dick’s writing and wondered what would happen if you extended his vision into the not too distant future, if you liked Bladerunner, if you liked The Matrix … and even if you like all the film and fiction that has made an attempt to be any of the above, you will love Neuromancer.William Gibson said that while writing Neuromancer he went to see the Ridley Scott film Bladerunner and thought that his ideas for the book were hopelessly lost, that everyone would naturally assume that he had taken all of his queues from the film.
Adapted from ISawLightningFall.blogspot.comThe first time I tried to read Neuromancer, I stopped around page 25.I was about 15 years old and I’d heard it was a classic, a must-read from 1984.
Case soon learns that the target he’s supposed to crack and his employer and are one and the same -- an artificial intelligence named Wintermute.Unlike most crime thrillers and many works of speculative fiction, Neuromancer is interested in a whole lot more that plot development.
Gibson famously coined the word “cyberspace” and he imagines a world where continents are ruled more by corporations and crime syndicates than nations, where cultural trends both ancient and modern dwell side by side, where high-tech and biotech miracles are as ordinary as air.
I know that every time he types it, you are going to imagine a cough drop flying serenely by, but it's a shape.
Now that the greatest obstacle in Gibson's vocabulary has been dealt with, I can tell you that he writes in one of the finest voices of any Science Fiction author.
It can sometimes feel unoriginal, but, much like Shakespeare, that's because what we have today is based on what he was doing then.Though Gibson may not be as radical as Dick, or as original as Bradbury, there is something in his words, his stories, and his 'coolness factor' that keep bringing me back.
I figured a book that’s been continuously in print for over twenty years and is considered a ground-breaking work in Science Fiction had to be good.
There’s plenty of sex and violence in the book, but it’s all very pedestrian.
It’s depressing from beginning to end.“Neuromancer” is considered to be groundbreaking in that it brought us the sub-genre of cyberpunk.
For a much better cyberpunk read, try Neal Stephenson’s “Snow Crash.” It has many of the same elements as “Neuromancer,” but it’s fleshed out better, has better character development and brings both the real world and cyberspace to life.
The innovation and direction were ground-breaking in a way that little other fiction has likely been during our lifetime.An analogy would be the movie Citizen Kane.
I suspect the book is much easier to read now then it was when written, because so many terms and concepts which were new at the time are now just part of our current culture.If you newly read Neuromancer, you may or may not enjoy it (as I already stated, I’m finding it to be rather middle-of-the-road overall), but you certainly will not understand its importance or influence (for better or worse), without some consideration of context.
Regarding the heroine of the book I keep imagining the following dialog between William Gibson and myself in my head:W.G.: Hey look, there is this girl who is also a skilled assassin.
For your information every other heroine of a modern YA novel is a skilled assassin.W.G.: She has special lenses implanted in place of her eyes!!!Me: You are not being too original.
The writing style makes it incomprehensible.
I give one star to the books I DNF.
This time the second star is due to the huge influence of the novel at the time it was published.
But then, a mysterious new employer shows up and offers him a deal that he can’t refuse: his body and mind healed, his ability to jack in to the matrix restored, and all he has to do is pull off one job.This book has an amazing cast of characters, including a Rastafarian pilot, a sociopath who acts out his perverted fantasies with holographs, a family of clones, the disembodied construct of a former cowboy, an AI on a mission that he doesn’t quite understand, a traumatized shell of a colonel, and a curvy BAMF with implanted mirrored lenses over her eyes and extending scalpel blades in her fingers.
Wow. What a terrible book.First, let me just say that I read for entertainment value.
That being said- the biggest reason this book is so awful is that Gibson's characters are completely hollow.
I'm not a writer, but isn't that a sign of BAD WRITING?The second reason this book is so bad, is Gibson's writing "style".
The "style" makes Neuromancer a very difficult book to read.
Gibson will write a whole page with four lines of dialog and the rest of the page will describe absolutely nothing.
For me, this was probably the first book I ever read just to say I read it.
A few days later, someone recommended I read Neuromancer so seeing as the stars were seemingly aligning to place a Gibson novel at the top of my ‘to-read’ list, I went out and bought this novel.
This technique gave the novel a better feel than others I have read where the author keeps removes the reader from the world to gloat about how creative his ideas for something are by overly describing it and its uses.
With a dead man riding shotgun and Molly, mirror-eyed street-samurai, to watch his back, Case embarks on an adventure that ups the ante on an entire genre of fiction.Hotwired to the leading edges of art and technology, Neuromancer ranks with 1984 and Brave New World as one of the century's most potent visions of the future.My Review: The seminal work of cyberpunk, the novel was published in 1984 as a mass-market paperback original.
So far, Reality 1, Gibson 0...but wait.Molly, Case, and Armitage are a weird little unit, chasing after a huge, game-changing paradigm-shifting score: Access to Wintermute, an AI that a powerful family-controlled corporation has...what, blocked up, imprisoned, how does language cope with this?
If you're into stuff like this, you can read the full review.Unhook the Modem: "Neuromancer" by William Gibson“Cyberspace.
A graphic representation of data abstracted from the banks of every computer in the human system.
Like city lights, receding.”In “Neuromancer” by William GibsonA friend of mine tried to read "Neuromancer" and he really struggled to follow what was going on, he told me.
I think there was a section where the protagonist was experiencing things via another person's eyes, adding to his confusion.
For him, I think it might have worked better as a graphic novel.
A bit of an embarrassment on the canon's part, really.
This one's "a landmark novel" that was actually ripped off by thousands of other sci-fi endeavors afterwards, like a chunk of meat devoured by the ever-hungry idea-challenged.And it has explosive sentences with new and often-inexplicable lingo that ends making one feel alienated by the entire lit.
To allow you time to stop an smell the roses (this would imply having a memorable time with the book).
The theme is comic-book party on uppers (with insipid guests to boot).
It is a disdainful William Burroughs wannabe, but the nausea does not come from the prose, but from the implausibility & laughability of plot, characters and "themes."
True Confessions1. I am a nerd. (I know this is a shocking revelation from someone who spends most of her free time reading and writing book reviews for pleasure).My overall personality, compounded by my sheltered religious background (as in, I spent most of my life going to school, marrying and having kids early, and being a homemaker with periodic stints in the workplace), makes it difficult for me to relate to characters who frequent bars, regularly use drugs, sleep around, and pepper their d
(I know this is a shocking revelation from someone who spends most of her free time reading and writing book reviews for pleasure).My overall personality, compounded by my sheltered religious background (as in, I spent most of my life going to school, marrying and having kids early, and being a homemaker with periodic stints in the workplace), makes it difficult for me to relate to characters who frequent bars, regularly use drugs, sleep around, and pepper their dialogue with lots of confusing futuristic slang and cursing.
I never finished the book, because writing this review was more fun (see #1 above).And that was when I knew, around p.
The world may not be described in terms that we all understand, but it surely captures the feeling of living in an extremely strange future.3.The Reader Who Loves Everything to be Neatly Tied Up Though there may be sequels to Neuromancer, I fully plan on treating this like a stand-alone novel.
Neuromancer was written in a time where the shape of the internet's influence was being contemplated, and where Gibson was allowed to paint a speculative picture of what a world interconnected by technology might look like.
Gibson’s reference to the cubist and dadaist artist, at this point of the novel, might look casual and unsubstantial; but to me, it implies a lot about the whole novel's lineage.In Neuromancer, as in Duchamp, there is this massive display of artefacts and dehumanised techno stuff: on the one hand, computers, artificial intelligence, cyberspace, ROM modules, augmented ninjas, razorblade-fingertips, cyberspies, stealth aircrafts, orbital space habitats (Gibson); on the other hand, a urinal, a staircase, a bicycle wheel, a bottle rack, a waterfall and illuminating gas, a box in a suitcase, lumps of sugar in a birdcage (Duchamp).There are also, in contrast to this, many graphic displays of organic and anatomic parts: on the one hand, blood vessels, drug addiction, pancreas and liver, reconstructive surgery, cryonic clones, disembowelled skulls and sexual intercourses (Gibson); on the other, a spread-legged female holding a gas lamp, a descending nude, a stripped bride and a passage from virgin to bride, Mona Lisa’s hot arse, and whatever could be exposed at the fountain (Duchamp).The junction of these two contradictory movements, dirty bodies and hallucinatory objects, is precisely what defined surrealism in the 1920s.
Θεωρείται ως το βιβλίο που ενέπνευσε το matrix, και να φανταστείτε ότι γράφτηκε το 1985 που δεν υπήρχε καν ίντερνετ (πόσο μάλλον όλες οι υπόλοιπες εφαρμογές).
Επίσης, δεν μπόρεσα να δεθώ με τους ήρωες (νομίζω ότι όλοι τους ήταν μεγάλα @ρχίδι@ και τους άξιζαν όσα τράβηξαν - όσο μπόρεσαν βέβαια να καταλάβουν τι έπαθαν!!!!)Και μιας και το ανέφερα, θα μου άρεσε να ακούσω τη γνώμη σας για το πόσο εκπαιδευμένος πρέπει να είναι ο αναγνώστης για να διαβάσει κλασικά βιβλία sci-fi.
Ως φανατική του fantasy και του fiction σε κάθε του μορφή, νομίζω ότι τα κλασικά βιβλία του είδους είναι άκρως πολιτικά και κοινωνικά και μπορούν να αναλυθούν σε μεγάλο βάθος.
Armitage has the means to repair the mycotoxin damage so Case – who is desperate to get back into cyberspace where he belongs – quickly agree to take the job.
The job of course turns out to be difficult and deadly, involving AIs, a space habitat, the Turing Police, killer robots, VR and even a ninja!If this sounds like a hoot, it is, the difficulty lies in deciphering William Gibson’s writing.
There is even a smidgen of an unrequited love story in there somewhere.Molly Millions by AspectusFuturusSome people take to Neuromancer like ducks to water, I envy them, but if you are not so adaptable you may want to avail yourself to online sources like the chapter by chapter guide on shmoop.com.
I usually love books like Neuromancer, but it just didn't work for me.
I like books that make me work for it.(view spoiler)[ I think when you know that the whole plot is actually driven by an AI whose motive is to unite with its twin, Neuromancer, then you'll understand the book better.
While reading this book, I feel like I'm hanging on by my fingertips, just on the edge of really understanding what's going on.
I love the first line to this book.I'm going to try to start it tonight, too.
To Call Up a Demon, You Must Learn Its NameAs punishment for a business indiscretion, Case, who lives for the  "bodily exultation of cyberspace"  (one of many neologisms first used in "Neuromancer"), is injected with a wartime Russian mycotoxin and hallucinates for 30 hours, only to suffer damage that is "minute, subtle and utterly effective". He falls into a "prison of his own flesh". After some fringe medical treatment in Siberia reinvents him, he emerges debt-ridden and physically compromised
For the moment, at least, the book must remain the sole source of the reader's bodily exultation of cyberspace.NEUROMANTIC HAIKU:The Whole ThingWintermute can’t changeThe world outside without aPersonality.MollyI never found outThe colour that her eyes were.She never showed me.On the Beach (with Miss Linda Lee)He saw three figuresOn the edge of the data,Waving at himself.ShurikenHe touched the nine pointsOf the star, one at a time,His chrome shuriken.INTERMISSION:Larry McCaffery:"There are so many references to rock music and television in your work that it sometimes seems your writing is as much influenced by MTV as by literature.
This book should be so covered in shiny, spangly stars to indicate all the sci-fi awards it has received that the cover should look like the milky way and possibly be shinier and brighter than the sun.
(Hint: it's something to do with being in cyber space and stealing information by making yourself into some sort of human mass storage device in a post-modern industrial espionage way).Does this make this a bad book and a piss poor read?
It makes it a confusing read, but then Gibson chucks in a few sentences which do make sense and that sort of fortifies the nerves and allows you to plough ever onwards.
Following the resounding success of my Locus Quest, I faced a dilemma: which reading list to follow it up with? Variety is the spice of life, so I’ve decided to diversify and pursue six different lists simultaneously. This book falls into my HUGO WINNERS list.This is the reading list that follows the old adage, "if it ain't broke, don't fix it". I loved reading the Locus Sci-Fi Award winners so I'm going to crack on with the Hugo winners next (but only the post-1980 winners, I'll follow up with
I loved reading the Locus Sci-Fi Award winners so I'm going to crack on with the Hugo winners next (but only the post-1980 winners, I'll follow up with pre-1980 another time).The first time I heard the music of Kraftwerk it sounded fresh and timeless – but also remarkably familiar, like I’d heard it a long time ago and forgotten where.
and I feel kinda stupid that I didn’t!It’s a heist story.
I've always thought it was a perfect title, from before I'd ever read the book - just like Radiohead is a perfect band name.After this I read: Love Mode Vol. 6
So that’s another thing, I like my fiction easy.
I’ve coped with most of Murakami’s surreal tales and I love time travel books, so escape from reality isn’t a problem for me – in fact it’s a joy – but everyday life lived in an environment so alien, so different and (for me) so unbelievable is just a switch-off.
Though, in truth, I gave up at half way – my mind fried by terminology I couldn’t comprehend and a story that had jettisoned me and left me behind some time ago.On the up-side, I like Case who I found to be the archetypal street-smart hardass who is on his uppers but has sufficient moral compass to keep him from straying too far from the straight and narrow.
Not because I think the blackmailer is ordering/asking Molly to have sex with Case - those days are long over for her and she's never going back - but because often times a woman who is in the Life or used to be in the Life has sex with a man as a kind of power-thing.
It's a common tactic that women who have lived very difficult lives and seen terrible things and are ancient in spirit if not in body use to make themselves a little more sure, a little less afraid, and gives them a little more control over a situation they may be unsure about.So, I was afraid that THIS was why Molly was having sex with Case right away, in order to get a read on him and get a hold on him.
Gibson's Neuromancer is a definite five.Neuromancer is the story of a burned-out hacker named Case.
The job is multifaceted and difficult, but the fixer Armitage makes all of Case's dreams come true when he reverses the damage done to his body and sets him down the path of cyber-crime again.The real rating five stuff comes from two sources.
Read a couple pages and you'll come to understand the visual gift of words Gibson has.The second, more subtle reason for the five is that it goes over a very interesting point with a major character, an AI system named Wintermute that pulls Armitage's strings.
In hindsight, it seems that Neuromancer was a triumph of style over substance, a fact which might go some ways in explaining its enduring relevance as an ur-text of modern (science) fiction: that particular quality serving in meta, perhaps paradoxical fashion by both establishing a trend that was to become progressively more discernible while yet commenting on what was and, more impressively, that which would prevalently come to be.
At the time I read this, though, such artsy-fartsy pondering was the furthest thing from my mind, what with the immediate sensation being nothing but enthralling immersion in Gibson's gritty-but-flashy, drug-adrenalized, surgically-enhanced and bodysuit-gladiatorialized vision of a future wherein a considerable part of any shadowy adept's life might be spent within the illimitable confines of virtual existence.
(The sex itself isn't awkward, but it's written awkwardly, like Gibson thought he should add some sex.) This is an unemotional and fairly uninteresting book with uninteresting characters.
I'm not going to say it's the worst book I've ever read, thus the two stars, but this is a book for my real life book club and I'm fairly certain by tomorrow I won't remember much about this story at all.
As in "I liked the noirish aspects."Looking back at my notes, I see last July at this same time the same book club was reading Rendezvous with Rama.
What is it with our normally awesome book club choosing boring science fiction novels to read for July?She flipped.
[2.5*]Αν κρίνω το βιβλίο καθαρά με όρους και συνθήκες του 2017,θα το έλεγα-μάλλον-ξεπερασμένο.Αν το κρίνω,όμως,με κριτήρια της εποχής που γράφτηκε και μιλήσω για τη γενικότερη σημασία του,τότε είναι ένα ενδιαφέρον,φουτουριστικό μυθιστόρημα που μιλούσε για έναν επερχόμενο κόσμο.Εισήγαγε την έννοια «κυβερνοχώρος»,το ίντερνετ χωρίς το οποίο δεν μπορούμε να φανταστούμε την ζωή μας.Και αυτό την εποχή που μόλις είχε αρχίσει η μαζική παραγωγή ηλεκτρονικών υπολογιστών και φαξ.Εκτός απ’αυτό,ο Gibson έκανε κάτι παραπάνω.Δημιούργησε έναν κόσμο που αντιπροσωπεύει την απόλυτη παγκοσμιοποίηση και διαφθορά.Έναν κόσμο που αποτελεί έκφραση του πιο σάπιου καπιταλισμού.
I am glad I decided to try this book after being sorely disappointed by Neal Stephenson's 'Snow Crash'.
True the prose is quite dense to start with and sometimes you are not very sure of what is happening for a few paragraphs, but I accept this as one of the writer's techniques to make us feel disorientated, and it is well in keeping with the themes the book explores.
Some readers have pointed out the 'cartoony' feel of the characters.
As archetypes go, I found them fascinating.
I have already started the second book in the trilogy 'Count Zero'.
The book that launched the whole cyberpunk genre... well of course it's brilliant. If you like SF at all, put this on your must-read list.
