https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/3552023-one-false-note
Vienna, Salzburg and Venice – the treasure hunt continues. The author of this book is not the same as the previous book’s, so the writing style is noticeably different. It bothered me first, but as the story progressed, I got used to it. Still exciting, entertaining story. Recommended!  Their one chance was to get lost in the maze of canals. But this was not to be. Just ahead, the tight channel fed into an expansive waterway bustling with marine traffic."The Grand Canal," Amy said with awe. "And
Vienna, Salzburg and Venice – the treasure hunt continues.
The author of this book is not the same as the previous book’s, so the writing style is noticeably different.
It bothered me first, but as the story progressed, I got used to it.
Still exciting, entertaining story.
Their one chance was to get lost in the maze of canals.
Just ahead, the tight channel fed into an expansive waterway bustling with marine traffic."The Grand Canal," Amy said with awe.
"And there's the Ponte di Rialto, one of the most famous bridges in the world.""We don't need a guided tour!
We need a place to disappear!"
Ίσως κιόλας έχω μεγαλώσει πλέον για να ζω τέτοιες εμπειρίες!Μετά από 4 ώρες τελικά (σε σύνολο) έφτασα στο σπίτι μου (1,5 ώρα με το αυτοκίνητο, όπου θα περνούσα από τον καινούριο υπέροχο δρόμο που φέτος δόθηκε στην κυκλοφορία – θρύλος αυτός ο δρόμος) και ξόδεψα περισσότερα λεφτά από όσο θα μου κόστιζε η βενζίνη (ω ναι, το ΚΤΕΛ Χαλκιδικής φροντίζει να μας γδύνει!!!).
Ο κύριος λόγος που δεν μου αρέσει η σειρά είναι ότι τα στοιχεία τα βρίσκουν τυχαία και δεν μου βγάζει πολύ λογική η όλη πορεία τους.
Una nueva historia de los hermanos huérfanos Cahill en su búsqueda de las 39 pistas que les permitirán obtener riqueza y poder ilimitados para dominar el mundo.
En Una Nota Falsa las pistas nos llevan a Viena, Salzburgo y Venecia de la mano de Mozart y posibles adivinanzas y misterios que dejó mientras aún vivía, previendo esta enorme búsqueda de la familia Cahill.
En esta entrega seguimos viendo lo despiadadas que son las diferentes ramas de la familia Cahill, pues harán literalmente todo lo que sea necesario para tomar la delantera y conseguir la siguiente pista.
Jedino što mogu da kažem svaka čast Herr Gordonu na upsešnom prekopiranom stilu pisanja os Herr Rika. Da nisam primetio da su drugačiji pisci na naslovnicama ne bih ni znao da je neko drugi pisao. Odlično.Sem toga nema puno, ako va se svidela prva knjiga svideće vam se i ova. Skakutanje svetom u potrazi za tragovima koji će nas odvesti do velikog blaga. Svi oće nagradu i svi igraju prljavo.Sa finom dozom akcije i komedije knjiga prosto proleti :)
I had a hard time putting this one down. This story kept me hopping and guessing what the next clue would be. My biggest disappointment was that not all the Cahill relatives played a big part in this story. I'm anxious for the next one.
His characters were believable and had a lot of depth under all the fun.How can it be that Korman's writing got worse as he got older?After reading The Maze of Bones, the only things that made me read the second book in the series were that: A.
the second book was written by Gordon Korman.
I figured that if anyone could rescue this series from a crappy second installment, it was Korman.I was wrong.
I was so, so wrong.The second installment in the series takes the kids from France to Austria to Italy.
For example, the book claims that Mozart had a twin sister.
This is a really great adventure series centered around orphaned Amy (14) and Dan (11) Cahill.
There grandmother has died and set their family off on a world wide adventure to discover the 39 clues that will lead to a price that will grant enough wealth and power to possibly rule the world!
The adventure are fast paced, almost like watching a movie.
Plus, the adventure continues into the real world with physical clues, a computer site and the chance to win a lot of money.
I would recommend this series to anyone who enjoys YA adventures and especially for reluctant readers.
This is book 2 in the 39 Clues series.
When I finished book one, I wasn't sure if I wanted to continue on with the story.
Now that I'm done with book 2, however, I have to know how the story ends.
The 39 clues lead to a prize which promises great fame for whoever solve the puzzle.
In this volume Amy and Dan Cahill are hot on the trail of clue number 2.
He does a great job continuing the story started by Rick Riordin in The Maze of Bones.
In the end Korman leave the reader with a hunger to know what will happen next.
Dan and Amy Cahill and they're o'per Nelly found the first clue from Mozart. The clue leads them Vienna Astraea. They're brutal relatives are on they're tail. Will they find the next clue, or will they walk into a deadly trap! What does iron solute half to do with anything?
One False Note (The 39 Clues #2), Gordon Korman
Another fun installment in the 39 CLUES series!Here, in book two, author Gordon Korman takes the helm from Rick Riordan to steer the Cahill siblings toward their next destination and their next big clue.It's obvious that Korman and Riordan have different writing styles, and I admit it took me a few chapters to adjust, but once I did I ended up enjoying Korman's style quite a bit and felt he continued with the feel of the characters and the structure of the plot.Are the books literary masterpieces?
One False Note picks up right where we left off in The Maze of Bones.
Dan and Amy head to Austria to find their next clues.
Their competitors make occasional appearances, all with their wealth, power and fame, but the two Cahills actually have the brains, so it's no surprise tabs are being kept on them.
I liked the creativeness of the clues of (D>HIC and the cake 'gateau' business).
The next book looks like it packs another awesome adventure in Japan.
I am fascinated with where the story is heading.
Do all 39 clues lead to an ingredient involved in a large formula?
A formula for what?
I usually don't like this kind of book, but this one is really good! Even though it is in the mystery section, if you like adventure books, you should definetly read this series. Sometimes it is a little confusing but I understand everything in a few minutes. This is a fast paced book with an ongoing chase and lots of characters that I can't keep track of. I recomend this book to anyone who likes everything I just described, even if you don't like what I just described you should read this book.
Müəllif dəyişdi. İlk bölümədə qəhrəmanların səyahət etdiyi şəhər sanki tur rəhbərindən olan şablon cümlələrlə təsvir edilmişdi. Elə o yerdə dedim yox... Yaxşı ki, elə o cümlələrlə də narazlılıq gedib bir də təkrar edilmədi. Uğurlu davam oldu, qorxduğum birdən çox fərqlənər faciəsi baş vermədi.
I feel like I'm traveling around the world when I'm reading these books ❤
The first book in the 39 Clues series was written by Rick Riordan and was full of his trademark action, fast-pace and humour.
This, the second installment, doesn't deliver what Riordan's first offering did, but it is still an entertaining and twist-filled adventure that develops this series well.
The short page count leaves little room for character development, but Korman manages to feed some in so that the characters aren't simply cardboard cut-outs.
Not up to the scratch of Rick Riordan's first installment, but an enjoyable second outing that will appeal to Indiana Jones fans or anyone looking for a quick, escapist read.

Вторая часть оказалась неплохим продолжением истории. Сама задумка неплоха, но исполнение у этого автора мне не особо понравилось. Риордан поставил высокую планку. Бросается в глаза, что герои немного поменялись. Впрочем, я уже заинтригована третьей книгой. Там будут самураи и много Японии (молюсь на это). В общем, читать интересно. Книги очень маленькие по объему, так что времени много не занимают. А удовольствие гарантировано. Итог: 7 из 10
The plot gets really more exciting. You just have to read the next. However, I did notice that Gordon Korman is milder than Rick Riordan, who is the author of the first book. Amy and Dan had more good breaks in this story than in the first one. The other Cahills also seem to be tamer than i'n the first story. You wouldn't even feel that the second story was written by someone else. Good work!
I was confused when I reached the end. while reading I thought second book isn't interesting as the first one, actually not interesting completely. I even thought about giving 4 stars or less. However, everything that was complicated till the middle of the book began to clear after that. First Philadelphia, then Paris, Vienna, Salzburg, Venice. Now it's time to travel to Tokyo ^_^
Charles MorrisonAdvisory 2031. What did you think this book was about? I think the book is about a family of powerful figures. It is more closely based on Amy and Dan Cahill, two orphans, who lost their parents in a house fire. The reason I think this is because the book is almost always following what Dan and Amy are doing, like looking for clues, searching to find a place to hide. I also think Dan and Amy are the two “underdogs” because they are just kids going up against celebrities, families
The reason I think this is because the book is almost always following what Dan and Amy are doing, like looking for clues, searching to find a place to hide.
I do feel the book fulfilled my expectations because it was always adventurous with the search for clues, chases or a spirited argument which never left a dull moment.
Yes, I enjoyed the book and there were many reasons, such as constant suspense of waiting for Dan and Amy to find a hint to a clue.
Yes, the book ended the way I expected when Amy and Dan found a clue.
Though it was exciting and educational.Brings back fond memories of Venice with the interesting details.Likes:* Different countries * Historical people and events* Siblings working together(view spoiler)[* Janus branch were artists, musicians, architects, etc.* Salzburg catacombs* Secret base with hidden entrance* Water chase* Ponte di Rialto on the Grand Canal (hide spoiler)]Dislikes:* Too many Cahill cousins to remember* Violence and greed(view spoiler)[* Stealing for the sake of the hunt* Jonah Wizard's fake hip hop speak (hide spoiler)]With-reservations:violence, attempted murder, stealing, lying, fugitivesBuddy Read:Chapter 6 (view spoiler)[ I am disturbed by how violent these books are and how breaking and entering is a clever thing not really shunned as an illegal action (though Nellie tried to be the voice of reason).
I would recommend this book because it has a lot of puzzles to solve, which is fun. Also, there is a lot of action scenes that creates suspense. I like how they give some information on their past and their family but still gives you room to come up with things on your own and try to solve it for yourself.
A good second installment, but not quite as compelling as the first. The characters become a bit flat and obnoxious in their bickering ( if Amy calls her brother dweeb one more time I might scream), not really seeming to have been affected by so many life and death situations, but still an interesting story.
interesting series. Two youngsters pursuing clues to a family legacy of great power and wealth. competing with other family members who resort to neferious measures to gain the advantage.
The Kabras had money; the Holts had muscles; Irina had guile and training; Alistair had experience; and Jonah had fame. Amy and Dan Cahill had their wits and little else...and NELLIE GOMEZ!
Not as good as the first one.
Dan and amy are on a misiion to find the next clue through danger and adventure they find the next clue and find out they need to go to toyko
This book was a lot of fun. Amy and Dan are really great characters and you naturally want to root for them.
I like this book because it was very descriptive so I could really picture the setting. I also liked the cliff hanger ending to the book. I also again liked the numerous cliff hangers throughout the book. And I liked how it was a good book but you still learn some history from it. I also liked that it was realistic so they had to take boats to get around Venice. And how in this book they included a tie between different "Cahills" and their backstories, for example Mozart and Benjamin Franklin.
