https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/69242.Made_to_Stick
كما أن أسوأ كوابيسي هو أن أستيقظ يومًا في جزيرة معزولة وليس في حوزتي سوى كتاب من هذا النوع على شاكلة "كيف تصبح مليونيرًا في ٣ أيام" "كيف تغير العالم بضغطة زر" (في الواقع إذا كنت في جزيرة معزلة فعلاً سأتمنى أن يكون معي كتالوج من "إيكيا" لتركيب قارب خشبي أستطيع أن أستقله لأهرب من الجزيرة).لكن هذا الكتاب مختلف فعلاً، ليس لأنه مكتوب بطريقة بسيطة ومسلية فقط، ولكن لأنني استفدت منه كثيرًا على الصعيدين الشخصي والمهني.بدأت بقراءة الكتاب قبل ٦ سنوات عندما كنت طالبًا في أستراليا، وتركته بالخطأ خلفي، مع ما تركته من كتب الجامعة والمحاضرات، بعد عودتي إلى الإمارات.
The problem is that everyone knows things like KISS (Keep It Simple Stupid) but no one ever bothers following this advice, mostly because it is given as abstract advice (some idiot talking about the KISS Principle) rather than in good, clear examples in ways that are designed to make the lesson stick.Many of the stories in this book I had heard before, in fact, many more of the stories in this book than in any of Gladwell’s books, but they are told not so much to get you to drop your jaw in surprise, which does seem to be Gladwell’s gift even when I don’t agree with him, but rather to instruct,The clever thing they do in the book is to use lots of stories from not-for-profit organisations that are seeking to get their message across – stories not just about people making money – and how these organisations have been ‘creative’ in attracting the attention of their potential audience.
from my blog, thesunrising.comSummary: When marketing anything, keep these six concepts in mind if you want your message to shtick: Simple, Unexpected, Concrete, Credible, Emotional, Stories; yes, my friends, that spells SUCCESs. If it sounds like too much work, these two concepts also work: Free, Sex (noooo, that’s not in the book…but it works I tell you!).Recommended?
If you’re never going to pick it up, at least read a breakdown of the six principles on the book’s website.One(ish)-liners for each of the six principles: * Simplicity - boil it all down to the core message you want people to walk away with….the one thing they should know/do…the key takeaway….the essence of your point…the singular (okay, I’ll stop).
Perhaps it was because this book came highly recommended from a reliable source, but I was greatly disappointed.
The ultimate test, I suppose, is whether the ideas from this book do, in fact, stick.
It suffices to say that "enjoyability" is NOT on the list of what makes an idea stick.
I wanted to like this book.
Or if you're teaching a course on advertising or communication, your students might get something out of it.
If you're actually into what makes ideas stick, why not pick something a little more rigorous, perhaps on memetics.
Great book on how to make the core message you want to deliver remembered. How to formulate it so that it 'sticks' in the minds of the listeners. The core idea is that: in order for a message to be 'sticky' it has to combine these 6 characteristics: 1) Simple 2) Unexpected 3)Credible 4) Concrete 5)emotional 6)StorySUCCES(without the extra 'S' spelling success)The authors tell very engaging stories on each of their success factors.I think this is a great book for consultants. One of their main jobs is to communicate ideas, so this is integral.
I Update #1, at the halfway point: five stars already.I want to read this book twice, at least.
A few key points that I want to experiment with in my own work:"If you've asked somebody to remember three things, you've asked them to remember nothing." I need to simplify messages to ONE key element.
There's an an amazing story of HP pitching Disney by creating a walkthrough pop-up museum that showcased HP technology in-use at a Disney park -- INSTEAD of creating a powerpoint presentation.Boil down goals to simple, concrete statements.
I'm really excited to keep pushing myself to write/present/think better using these techniques.
The book "Made to Stick: Why Some Ideas Survive and Others Die" by Chip Heath and Dan Heath Chow, is about how to make your ideas memorable; be it promoting a product / project, being a professional, forwarding a company's strategy or lessons to students.
"Made to Stick" is a book that stands as proof of how to apply the suggestions in it, if you get as it is written: with many stories as examples, with simple language, and without long and pompous paragraphs.
I was recommended this book by multiple people, including the professionals of Goodreads.
The final nail on the coffin was when my Dad just handed me this book saying, “You know for a Doctor, you should really read this book!” Way to go Dad!
Not only did I resonate with it from the perspective of a new healthcare professional but also as an individual who loves to learn new things.
I completely see now [after reading this book] how an idea can infiltrate a nation of individuals seamlessly.
Overall, I would recommend this book to anyone who wants to broaden their horizons.
Some business books are written to promote consulting gigs.
The ideas are coherent, presented well, and made relatively easy to digest (following the their own enunciated principle of the "pomelo scheme").
The examples are good if outdated (the wood block Palm Pilot example is a little dated.
The ideas are even useful.
For example, the Sinatra Test (one successful outcome means that every outcome will be successful) is a little dubious and the example of Safexpress tells about the outcome, but not how it was achieved.
I suspect that here is where you would need consultants.Again, it's not a bad book.
For example, why is a lurid but absurd urban legend so much easier to remember than the highly worthy and well-supported mission statement of a nonprofit?The book breaks down into six components the qualities an idea needs to have in order to "stick"--to be remembered by people and influence their behavior.
The Heath Bros do a great job practicing what they preach; the book is clear, engaging, and packed with wonderful (and memorable) anecdotes and examples.
The Shark Attack clinic is an instant classic; I also loved their discussions of effective (and ineffective) anti-smoking and anti-littering ads.This book will be highly useful to any entrepreneur, parent, pastor/rabbi, teacher, advertiser, CEO, or other communicator who needs to get his or her point across.
Because my copy of Made to Stick is filled with sticky notes that are covered with ideas for upcoming speeches and writings.
This book motivates application of the ideas it contains.
Yes, I've used several of the core techniques described in the book for years--using stories, making ideas concrete, keeping the core message central, tapping into why the audience should care, using surprise, and ensuring credibility.
Made to Stick isn't about propaganda techniques, but about a language that helps people understand what you're communicating.Ample examples for both the world of education and the world of business, this is a reference I will return to many times.
کتاب های زیادی در زمینه اثربخشی محتوا خوندم و اینکه چطور محتوایی ارایه کنیم که ماندگار و تاثیر گذار باشد، اما برای من ایده عالی مستدام کتابی متفاوت و خاص بود که با مثال های متعدد و شیوه ای آسان این موضوع را شرح داده است...محتواهایی که کار زیادی برده است، اما به درستی ارایه نمی شوند، اساتید دانشگاهی که سرشار از دانش هستند، اما نمیتوانند ارایه کنند و خیلی مثال های دیگه ای که لزوم مطالعه این کتاب و استفاده از تکنیک های آنرا نشان میدهد .
این کتاب عالی است. به نظرم به تمام معنا مطالعه آن برای همه نیاز است. نه تنها شما را در جایگاه شغلی و اجتماعی قدرتمند می کنه بلکه بهتون کمک می کنه تا بسیاری از باورها، رویدادها و ایده هایی رو که در محیط اطرافمون باهاش مواجه می شیم رو بتونیم به درستی تحلیل کنیم و بشناسیم.خوندن این کتاب رو به همه توصیه می کنم.ترجمه عالی این کتاب در کنار چاپ بسیار با کیفیت خوندن این کتاب رو لذت بخش تر کرده.
This might end up the best book I’ll read in 2017.قد يكون هذا أفضل كتاب عندي في ٢٠١٧.
Kennedy’s Man on the Moon vision?Why is it we remember Urban legends like the Kentucky Fried Rat, Coco Cola dissolving tooth, Kidney thieves or the fact that you can see the Great Wall of China from space?Welcome to a book that is the cross breed between great communication, excellent marketing concepts, successful ideas and yes, common sense.
A book that demystifies the magic of what we remember and yes, the ideas that stick.Made to Stick by Chip Heath & Dan Heath is an absolutely must buy business / communication book for anyone of any age group.
Really great book, especially if you communicate for a living. The 6 principles that make an idea stick ( 1.) Simplicity, 2.) Unexpectedness, 3.) Concreteness, 4.) Credibility, 5.) Emotions, 6.) Stories ) make up the simple acronym, SUCCESS. This book elaborates on these principles while at the same time adhering to them. If you're a public speaker, teacher, pastor, manager, or even a parent trying to teach ideas to your children then I think you will find this book beneficial.
من أروع الكتب التي قرأتها والتي تتحدث بطريقة مفصلة ومبسطة عن كيفية تبسيط أفكارك لتؤثر بها في الأخرين وتجعلهم يحفظونها.ستتة إستراتيجيات بسيطة تساعدك في هذه العملية
My dad read this book a few years ago, and because it's in English he thought I'd like it … so he gave it to me for my birthday.
It's not a book I would have picked up on my own.I don't regret reading it, it was interesting, though a bit long.
I think that's my main problem with this book: it's about sticky ideas being simple and yet this book was long for what it was.
I don't necessarily think we needed to read about so many examples, just a few would have been enough.Like I said, it was good, but it could have been a lot better.
I also like to read about stories, what makes them work, how they excite our imagination, how we use them to enrich our communications.
Good salespeople, advertisers, marketers, PR professionals, even managers wanting to motivate their employees and entrepreneurs needing to excite their investors can make good use of the techniques described in this book.
In the process, they not only show the reader how to use successful strategies, they do it in an entertaining fashion that makes the book a pleasure to read.
لكن السؤال هنا هل كل الأفكار تصلح لأن تبقى و إن اتبعت هذه المعايير؟ باستطاعة أي مشعوذ أقصد أي مدرب تنمية بشرية أن يستخدم هذه المعايير وأن يؤثر في الجمهور و أن ترسخ محاضرته في أذهانهم، لكن هل ما علق في أذهانهم يستحق هذا الفراغ الذي ملأه؟ وبالأحرى هل ستنفعهم هذه الأفكار في حياتهم؟ لنكن أكثر تبسيطا، عندما يحلل هذا الكتاب كيف استطاعت إحدى الدعايات التأثير على شريحة واسعة من الناس وجعلهم يتأثرون بقدرة شركة معينة وتوجيههم لشراء منتج معين..
تمنيت لو فصل الكتاب أكثر في الأفكار التي بقيت على مر التاريخ، من الأفكار الشاذة التي انتشرت في عصرنا فقط باتباعها المعايير و إن كانت فارغة المحتوى جملة وتفصيلا..
The basic concept outlined in this book is helpful and I loved the very beginning with its surprising twist. After a couple of chapters however I think the books looses a bit of spicyness.
To summarize, here’s our checklist for creating a successful idea: a Simple Unexpected Concrete Credentialed Emotional Story.
The stickest most important lesson: They know that with ideas it's not the telling but the showing that counts, so they've filled their book with stories that illustrate their theories.“Stickiness means that a message makes an impact.
Concreteness: avoid statistics, use real-world analogies to help people understand complex ideas.
Help people understand and remember from the their past and present experience.
Tangible ideas makes it easy for people to understand remember your blog posts.4.
Through powerful anecdotes (uber intentionally) and very approachable technical explanations, Heath and Heath do an amazing job giving concrete examples of how to present your ideas in a readily-remembered way that will encourage retention and action by the recipient.Less vaguely speaking (a cardinal Curse of Knowledge sin according to the Heaths), for me personally as a YouTube content creator this means crafting my videos in a way that will not only grab attention in the first ten seconds (crucial) but will also honestly communicate a facet of effectively learning English that will be taken to heart, perhaps remembered at first because of its emotional appeal but later because it works for the viewer - meaning it was translatable.
If you are a business person, teacher, or just someone trying to get your idea across, this is a great book to read!Written by brothers Chip and Dan Heath, one a professor of organizational behavior at Stanford, the other an education consultant and former researcher at Harvard Business School.
They look at the key aspects of what makes some ideas and stories stick in people's minds.
They boil things down to 6 key principles of simplicity that make things stick in people's memories.Some of the cases they analyze are urban legends, because these seem to get around fast and are remembered long after they are heard.
As a marketer and a game developer I have always wondered about how to make people care about my idea.
How can I make someone to buy my product and listen to my proposals.
This book has helped me a lot in shaping my thoughts, towards making ideas stick.
End result is that I have hundreds of working examples from this book as well as Edward De Bonu's book "Think before its too late" to make things work.So whenever you are going to work on an idea, just think about SUCCESs. S: Is your idea simple?U: is your idea unexpected?C: is your idea concrete?C: is your idea credible?E: is your idea emotionalS: is your idea a story?
Enjoy sticking!
كتاب جميل لللأسف قرأته باللغةة العربية ولكني سأحرص ان شاء الله على شرائه باللغة الانجليزية لماذا تموت بعض الأفكار بينما ترسخ بعضها؟ الصفات التي يجب أن تتوافر في طريقة عرض الفكرة حتى ترسح في ذهن الجمهورالبسيط غير المتوقع المصداقية العاطفي والملموس ؟ ة كتاب أنصح به الأخل والمربين والاساتذه وكل من يتطلب عمله التأثير في قرار شخص ما انه ليس من كتب التنمية الذاتية المكررة انه مختلف يكفي انه قائم على فكرة من كتاب مالكوم جلادويل
8 stars!!!!!!!!!!!! This book is amazing. Do you teach? Do you write? Do you manage? Do you talk? Then you should read this.Gripping stories, succinct and memorable principles, powerful lessons for all of life.
As I return to communications, I thought I'd brush up with this modern marketing classic.
Other than sounding like the monologue of a priest enamoured with his own religion at times, the points were well-presented and the takeaways do stick.
Salasos grāmatu un mani pārņem bažas, vai spēšu realizēt tajā aprakstīto. Tik nepacietīga un alkatīga, tik ambicioza un neapmierināma esmu. Tā satraukusies, ka pat padomāt nevaru. Paņemu brīdi, lai ļautu norimt aizrautības nemieram un pamanu, ka grāmata patiesībā sauc vārdā jēdzīgas un nereti jau praktizētas parādības. Un nosaucot vārdā, piešķir tām apzinātību, mērķtiecību un spēku. Tāda kupidona-snaipera rokasgrāmata - kā precīzā trāpījumā, iedvest idejā dzīvības spēku un dāvāt tai iespēju realizēties.
