https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/95279.Lucia_in_London
For despite her quick accumulation of Lords and Duchesses and Rich London Eccentrics added to her table and parlour, surely her heart must still dwell within graceful Riseholme?
What Lucia loves is Life Itself, in all of its quaint smallness and all of its grand largeness.
Let us enjoy the spectacle of Lucia devouring whatever crosses her path.So it is for both the residents of Riseholme and the crème de la crème of London.
And so it is for the readers of "Lucia in London"...
Lucia most of all!Darlings, you simply must visit Lucia in London.
The series of 'Mapp and Lucia' novels written by EF Benson are, for me, the funniest books in the English language.
Lucia temporarily abandons Riseholme, the village in which she lives, and sets about trying to become a major player in the artistic and social life of one of the world's greatest cities.
It's a comic novel that won't be to everyone's taste (humour is a very individual thing).
I think 'Lucia in London' is an absolutely brilliant book.
But however good they are, they almost certainly will not match the novels themselves, which are best experienced via the printed page.
F. Benson's Lucia novels.And, Lucia in London is one of my favorites.I have probably read the book five or six times and it never fails to amuse and entertain me, but since moving to a small town I think I appreciate it even more.Lucia has enjoyed life at the center of her small-town social circle for years.
British author Nancy Mitford was a loyal "Luciaphil" and wrote that the stories were still "fresh as paint." I feel that way too; I laugh at the silly antics of the characters as if I'd never read them before.Nothing is more valuable than old friends---and Benson's Lucia novels have been my close friends since my 20's and will remain with me forever.
Philip would be Filippo, and the nickname would be Pippo.) At first, I was simply infuriated at her relentless social climbing and affectations, but as the book wore on, I gradually, like so many of the socialites and artistic lions that Lucia so assiduously cultivated during her brief season in London, came to become a Luciaphil [sic] myself.
She was over the top, yes, but she made me laugh out loud with her inexorable attempts to befriend duchesses, genius musicians and other luminaries of London society.Be sure to read the Lucia books in order, beginning with Queen Lucia.
You'll find yourself laughing out loud and, while finding Lucia infuriating, you'll end up becoming a Luciaphil, too.
Thus far, I have read only the first two novels in the series, Queen Lucia and Lucia in London.
Both were priceless.Lucia is Mrs. Philip Lucas of Riseholme, a rural community in the South of England which she dominates like Queen Victoria dominated her court.
When it happens that Lucia and Peppino (her husband Philip) inherit a fashionable London house in Brompton Square from the latter's elderly aunt, together with a load of pound sterling, a painting by Sargent, and even some pearls.
If you have never read any of Benson's novels, start with Queen Lucia and be prepared to laugh yourself silly.
August 2017 reread: 3.5* Lucia's social climbing in London wasn't as amusing as the reactions of the people in Riseholme. Lucia's ambitions and disregard of her husband made her less sympathetic than I found her in the first book, Queen Lucia. However she is back to her previous good form in the last few chapters so I look forward to reading the next book sometime soon.
3.5 starsLucia is back to her ways again in this installment of the Lucia series; I have to say that I like this better than the first book.Peppino (Lucia's husband) has just inherited a house in London and some income from an aunt.
It doesn't take long until Lucia is working her way up the social ladder in London while the residents of Riseholme are reading about Lucia's activities in the social column of the newspaper.
The question is, will Lucia and Peppino become permanent fixtures in London?
Another fun romp with Lucia, Georgie, and Daisy!
A Ouija board that goes by the name Abfou, a small-town museum whose biggest exhibit are a pair of mittens worn by Queen Charlotte, and now a home in London, where Lucia continues to ineptly climb the social ladder, this book is the second in the Mapp and Lucia series and was just as much fun as the first.
I'm a stickler for making the edition I have read to be my book photo, but for some reason they didn't have the edition I read.
This was close!
Camp world where the most "Tarsome" eventuality that has to be contended with is having to run your own bath when your maid has been given the afternoon off.
Rhythm returns to Riseholme.


Lucia does London: clever chap, that Benson.
Recognising the limitations of a provincial milieu, he partially transplants his most shameless creation to London where she can run amuck in society whilst retaining one foot in the other camp [sic] of Riseholme.
The touch is surer, defter than in Queen Lucia as there are infinitely more foils for the Lynda Snell of her day's pretension, condescension and scheming, though when she trips, it's further - and funnier - to fall.
Ouija boards, pretend affairs, a museum of old tat that meets its deserved fate, fawning over princesses.
How much for a pair of old woollen mittens that may (or may not) have belonged to a dead queen consort?
One of my favorite Lucia novels.
The heroine is triumphant as she enters London society.
It is a delicious romp.
But not for folks who don't enjoy silly stuff.As someone who has enjoyed watching acquaintances climb (or trip) on the social ladder, I find Lucia's adventures timeless.
The social trappings have changed but the game remains the same.
Perhaps the most delightful part of this book is that Lucia's exploits aren't fooling anyone---yet her acquaintances support her because they are having so much fun watching her social ascent.Again, Bravo!
Lucia.
Or, better yet---Bravissimo!Note: this site erroneously states the author as Benton---it is E.F. Benson
mILDLY AMUSING BUT WHAT GHASTLY PEOPLE.
It would not be until 1931 that Benson would return to the village of Tilling or to Elizabeth Mapp as the focus of a book and it seems reasonable to this reader to consider that Mapp and Lucia is the first book of the ‘real’ Mapp and Lucia series with Miss Mapp, Queen Lucia and Lucia in London functioning as prequels to the series.My first response to Lucia in London was to feel much as did her friends and acquaintances left in behind in Riseholme.
The subject matter of this is Emmeline 'Lucia' Lucas, an upper-middle class woman living in Riseholme (based on Broadway in Worcestershire).
Absolutely no time for common people, not even the professional and managerial types that nowadays make up much of the middle class.But the delight of the novel is that EF Benson utterly gets this.
Not a way of life that my working class grandparents would have enjoyed at that time, nor, indeed, even my middle-class grandparents who were of that managerial class so many steos below the Lucia set.The details of meal times - lunch, tea and dinner, following, one assumes, a handsome breakfast.
Lucia is London finds our manipulative, social climbing antiheroine striking out for the city after she inherits a house and a bunch of money from a not-much-cared-about aunt.
A lot of the pleasure of these novels comes from a building irritation at Lucia's awful behavior that turns to delight as we watch her get a (mild) comeuppance.
What's interesting to me about one in particular is the way that Benson incorporates a group of "Luciaphils," quasi-friends who, rather than being annoyed by Lucia's shenanigans, instead choose to find amusement in seeing how far she'll go.
This amusement actually transcends into a kind of admiration at Lucia's audacity.
The second in the series "Make Way for Lucia" Self-absorbed, social-climbing Lucia and her husband inherit a house in London and move there. Despite her snobbery and social-climbing, Lucia is an likeable main character. (Side Note: The novel was written in 1927, and, although multiple versions were listed on Goodreads, not my 1978 paperback. I was able to add my addition, including a picture of the cover...so fun)
I may be a Luciaphil myself because I was quite hung up on what quick-witted Lucia would do next. She is such a wonderful, social-climbing snob. Even though I felt the same slight as the Riseholmites, I was back on her side by the end of the book, as to be expected with Queen Lucia. Benson created such wonderful characters in these books that I both love them and love to hate them.
Sit-comEcco come doveva essere una sit-com prima dell'avvento della televisione. Lucia non mi sta molto simpatica, io sono più dalla parte di Daisy e di Olga, ma Lei è incredibile nel saper manovrare le persone e i fatti a suo vantaggio. Molto divertente.
Deliciously witty!
This was definitely the better of the 3 books in Lucia Rising Trilogy - the camp gossipy storylines find their straps
Lucia always delights. She is supremely self confident and deserves her luciaphiles.
Social piranhafeasting on the London settoo fat for her pond.
If Jane Austen wrote the BBC sitcom "Keeping Up Appearances", it would have turned out something like the Lucia novels. Great fun!
Soooo delicious! This series is very fun!
Droll, delightful.
A great deal of the fun and enjoyment of the Lucia books comes from knowing the characters and being able to predict exactly how they will behave in any given situation, then laughing at the inevitability of it all, and this sort of familiarity really needs more than one three hundred page book to be developed.
Like Olga and her friends in Lucia in London, I have become a Luciaphil, and thoroughly enjoy watching Benson engineer situations in which I know Lucia will behave in a rude, crass manner and equally I know that everyone else will pretend not to notice because a.
A quanto pare questo è un romanzo che fa parte di una serie.
Si immagini Londra, si scelgano gli anni Venti, si capisca che il libro è umoristico, e questo è tutto ciò che vi serve per godervi le avventure di Lucia.Pregi.Pregio uno: è umoristico, perbacco!
Non ci si può sempre occupare di dialoghi sopra i massimi sistemi.Pregio due: avviso i lettori della recensione che questo è un pregio strano.
Una persona non definita dalla propria sessualità.100 punti solo per questo.Difetti.Difetto uno: certi episodi perdono un po' della loro attrattiva quando sono tirati per le lunghe.
