https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/12384.The_Lords_and_the_New_Creatures
So sad that we lost him so soon. I think he would have produced many important songs and poems if he had had the time.
I first bought a copy of this book in 1982 and still had pages marked with cut up strips of post-it notes.
Perhaps knowing more about poetry than I did then might change what I thought about this book.
Different rings of death, the city create different vices.
The main theme is the camera and cinema.
The camera captures the true form and keeps it.
Instead of Plato's Cave, Morrison uses alchemy.
It is an interesting analogy that seems to capture the mysticism Morrison enjoyed.
The themes are not as obvious, but the work is more poetic in its form and style.
"In that year there wasan intense visitation of energy.I left school & went downto the beach to live.I slept on a roofAt night the moon becamea woman's face.I met the Spirit of Music." JDM
I'm Highly Biased; as his employee & friend, I nevertheless found the work to be Fascinatingly Intelligent, & VERY Well Written.[Retrospective Observation: Fittingly, the LONGER the interval of TIME, the more his insights become relevant & reflective of the forecast reality WE HAVE BECOME ... nevermind Ed Cayce & "Noster Great-Dame-Us" ... Jimbo WAS (X: The Man with the X-Ray Eyes) the tragic incarnation of the discarded & uncredited (upon Bradbury's insistence) short story for a pulp Sci-Fi mag ... later made a film w/ Ray Milland ...
Funnily enough, you should be able to get a good idea of what you’re getting here before you start reading. This collection combines the only two books of poetry that were published during Jim Morrison’s turbulent lifetime.
he is one of the most inteligent and sensitive human beings that ever walked on earth. i think this says it all. his poetry really resembles rimbaud, i think he was his most notorious influence.i prefer to "listen" to his poems through music or spoken words, but 5 stars for the lizard king, he sure can do anything.
Morrison's writing brings up so many emotions, it's impossible not to feel something when reading his work. Especially the section titled 'The Lords,' I began to feel anxious, malicious, spaced out, and feelings as if the edge were encroaching upon me. An absolutely wonderful and quick read.
4.5 stars
♥
"Do you daredeny mypotencymy kindnessmy forgiveness?Just tryyou will frylike the restin holiness"RIP, Lizard King.
It has the day-glo green pages and some tripper's handwritten notes inside.
Here's one of Jim's stand-alone lyrics and is as true today as in '68: (picture this: This one is on a lime green page with some illiterate scribbles from some 70's stoner kid.)------------------------------The soft parade has now begunon SunsetCars come thundering downthe canyon.Now is the time & the place.The cars come rumbling."You got a cool machine."These engine beastsmuttering their softtalk.
A delightat nightto hear their quiet voicesagainafter 2 years.Now the soft paradehas soon begun.Cool poolsfrom a tired landsink nowin the peace of evening.----------------------------
Sure, they contain some great songs but NOT the singular vision that Morrison possessed before he made it big.The collection really does make him seem more like Rimbaud than anyone else.
He did burn out on poetry and creativity early on and tried to live the existence about which Nietzsche writes.
Perhaps he could have lived on - had his heart held out - to have been a great an unheard of poet, writing his own Illuminations, a modern-day Rimbaud.
Oh, this is a tough one to review. At times I felt I needed to be on LSD or Mescaline to really feel what big Jim was trying to show me. Some of the content struck me as pretty lame. But... there are just a few lines in here that really touched me; they are just so profound, inspiring even. I'm glad I read this.
lol@u jim morrison, shut up and sing 5-2-1 kthxbye.
The first part of this book is more like thoughts and musings than poems; they're unusual and thought-provoking.
The voyeur, the peeper, the Peeping Tom, is a darkcomedian.
He is repulsive in his dark anonymity, in his secret invasion.
And these secret events are the voyeur'sgame.
He seeks them out with his myriad army ofeyes--like the child's notion of a Deity who seesall.
"Everything?" asks the child.
"Yes, everything," they answer, and the child is left of copewith this divine intrusion.(I've been on a Jim Morrison kick and so was delighted to find this 1971 edition a few days ago in a Value Village.)
"All games contain the idea of death."Just one of many insightful lines of Jim Morrison's The Lords and The New Creatures - a collection I was delighted to find recently in a used book store and to revisit after a twenty-year hiatus."We all live in the city.The city forms - often physically, but inevitably psychically - a circle.
Diseased specimens in dollarhotels, boarding houses, bars, pawn shops,burlesques and brothels, in dying arcades which never die in streets and streets of all-nightcinemas."The poet's perspective starts like a hawk circling 'round the city, spiraling down into the center - getting closer and closer to its prey - for Morrison, the truth - pure vision unencumbered by sense perception.
The Lord’s, And the New CreaturesAuthor: Jim MorrisonReviewed by: Adam MichaelisA man that had the power to change a generation, He made music with a band that had a great impact on the scene.
He was a poetic man and with his controversial words and experience of life itself he wrote The Lord’s and The New Creatures.
It is a story of a lizard man and a lizard woman and with creative words and pictures he paints a story so vivid it will feel like you are experiencing what he is writing.
I also liked the words he used because they really painted a picture for me.
The Doors, and in particular Morrison, were an important cultural infuence in my novel on the so-called silent generation, "The Duke Don't Dance." Morrison spoke to both the disaffected younger generation at home as well as those enmired in Southeast Asia during the Vietnam War, where the Doors' recordings were highly popular, or perhaps better described as addictive.
He appealed to both the simple despair of those who summarized the continuous stream of casualties in the words "it don't mean nothin'" and those seeking some intellectal anchor in the references to Blake, Brecht and ancient Irish legends.
Morrison's poetry is fractured and obscure, but not merely the ramblings of a drug addict.
"The Lords" features some interesting thoughts by Jim Morrison on the art of cinema. "The New Creatures" is far less interesting. This is a fairly quick read and can easily be finished within one sitting.
Meh. For die-hard Doors fans only, and I'm a die-hard Doors fan and still don't find much worth out of this collection other than that it's nice to have on my shelf.
Jim Morrison is famous as the Doors' lead vocalist and a member of the 27 Club.
But he was also a talented song writer with a strong intellect.
So whenever I read his poetry I wonder why it isn't better.The Lords is the superior of the two sections.
It's more coherent, more accessible.
(Morrison met Doors keyboard player Ray Manzarek while they were attending UCLA's film school.) The New Creatures, as alluded to above, is less accessible and less coherent then the first section.
Morrison often resorts to just stringing words together; no attempt at proper grammar or sentence structure.
Morrison is a clumsy, drug-addled pop-culture reference, and his poetry is more suitable for gleaning general trivia about Jim Morrison, rather than actual reading. It's abstract, certainly, though not because he uses abstraction and absurdism, but because he's really, really high.
Kauniilla sanoillaei mitään merkitystäkaikki kantautuutyhjyydelle jossainkaukopuheluvalheidenonnettomuuksien onnellisuudessa.Mahdottoman mahtavaa, kiitos Jim.Kunnioittaen suuresti, MaiPs. Sulla oli synttärit just, onnea sinne jonnekin, äärirajojen ulkopuolelle
This isn't Shakespeare or Edgar Allan Poe. This can't be regarded in the same light. These writings are from a well read rock'n'roll singer. I enjoy the images he uses and the journey his words take me on. It doesn't always make sense but is entertaining and at times thought provoking.
5 stars for The Lords; 3 for The New Creatures, which had many strong aspects but often its potential didn't fully pull together in a way I could follow.
Just appalling.
This book is a cohesively put together collection of early poems centered around Jim Morrison's world. A 1960's California rock and roll world filled with sex, drugs, fame, death and an obsession with native american mysticism. These often hallucinatory images make for some 4 star poems while others are throw aways. I still think his best and most consistently compelling words were for the Doors, but you can see how much of that came from his poetry. I dug it enough to go ahead and tackle The American Night next.
I read this when I was in high school and thought it was terrible. I read it again when I was at University and thought it was terrible... I've read it again now, and still think it's terrible..... I shan't be reading it again.
Sometimes stimulating, e.g., "The body exists for the sake of the eyes; it becomes a dry stalk to support these two soft insatiable jewels." (The Lords, page 52) In any case, not a dense read; you can zip through this in an afternoon.
This is nothing more than a collection of ramblings and descriptions. The poems aren't even titled or marked to indicate where one begins or where one ends.
