https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/25189315-smoke-gets-in-your-eyes
There are many words a woman in love longs to hear. “I’ll love you forever, darling,” and “Will it be a diamond this year?” are two fine examples. But young lovers take note: above all else, the phrase every girl truly wants to hear is, “Hi, this is Amy from Science Support; I’m dropping off some heads.”  You have all seen The Producers, right? The version with Zero or Nathan, in the cinema, on TV, on the stage, whatever. Those of you who have not…well…tsk, tsk, tsk, for shame, for shame. Well
Yes we are, and dead-ender Caitlin is happy to help with the cleanupCaitlin Doughty has cooked up a book that is part memoir, part guidebook through the world of what lies beyond, well, the earth-bound part, at least, and part advocacy for new ways of dealing with our remains.
Caitlin Doughty from her siteSmoke Gets in your Eyes is rich with information not only about contemporary mortuary practices, but on practices in other cultures and on how death was handled in the past.
But that's what makes the book so interesting, it's creepy (view spoiler)[Why crematory floors need to be old and pitted and why obese people are cremated early in the day and skinny old corpses later.
The author though, seems very jolly, and I'd like to have lunch and a chat about work with her every now and again, but not too often._____In spoilers are my initial thoughts and a bit about a jewelry scam that funeral directors - burials or cremations operate.(view spoiler)[After reading Predictably Irrational: The Hidden Forces That Shape Our DecisionsI wanted something a little lighter.
When Caitlin Doughty took a job at a California crematory, she learned more than just how to dispose of dead bodies.
The daily exposure to death changed her thinking on the subject and turned her into a warrior fighting the good fight for the good death.
While practicing the process of turning a former human into four to seven pounds of grayish ash and bone, Doughty's way of thinking on the subject began to evolve.Corpses keep the living tethered to reality.
We are all just future corpses.In addition to her philosophical musings, Doughty presents a nice historical overview of death and its many resulting rituals.
Right after I finished reading the memoir "When Breath Becomes Air", by Paul Kalanithi- a 4th year medical student working at Stanford Hospital ...(only 30 minutes from my house), - who died this year of Lung Cancer.., THIS book arrives in my mail box the SAME day (just 'hours' after I wrote a review for Kalanithi's book) Creepy!
"Are you and Caitlin friends" ....(Mary Roach wrote the morbidly fascinating- oddly fun- engrossing book "STIFF").
I can't believe how much I enjoyed reading Caitlin's memoir.
[DO NOT READ DURING EATING DINNER]...However, I liked Caitlin's human warmth ...( she was real and personable).
This book is a combination of her stories about cremating bodies, her research into the history of death practices around the world, and tales of woe about her love life and attending mortuary school.
She also writes about wanting to help educate Americans about death so we aren't so afraid of it.
The closer we come to understanding it, the closer we come to understanding ourselves."This is a book that was more interesting in theory than in practice.
Caitlin's writing style is immature, and she relies heavily on pop culture references.
If this is your first book about death practices, you might find her stories interesting.
I think this book gets the award for best opening line."A girl always remembers the first corpse she shaves." So, yeah, I was pulled in from the beginning.
I got to learn all about what it takes to be embalmed, (OMG) and just how a crematorium works.
She talks about other cultures, and the rituals they have around death.
How our culture is separated from death.
From our obsession with youth, to all the beauty products designed to keep us looking young, even the embalming, done to make us look our very best.This book really has a lot to offer.
Many people avoid thinking about death altogether, uncomfortable as we are with our own demise and that of those we love.
Like the author of this book, I think it is better to learn about what happens when we die in order to become comfortable with death.
Caitlin Doughty relates how she became terrified of death when, as a young child, she sees another child die.
Written with the same acerbic wit that so delighted me in her more recent book From Here to Eternity: Traveling the World to Find the Good Death, Ms. Doughty makes death accessible in a way that not many people can do.
This review was also posted at Carole's Random LifeThis was the best little book that I didn't even know that I wanted to read.
My initial impression of the book when I received was lackluster at best.
I do think that most people really would appreciate this honest look at the subject.Each of the people that are in this book really add to the overall story.
I really appreciated the parts of the book that really let us see how much this kind of work affected the author.
I liked the way that this book was written.
It was difficult for me to describe this book to friends who asked what I was currently reading, as most would give me a funny look when I said it is about a woman who worked at a crematory.
Ms. Doughty's work hit a nerve for me in this regard -- death is a devastating loss to the living, but can be a celebration of peace and freedom to those who have died.
I highly recommend this title to anyone who enjoys nonfiction works that can inspire deeper-level thinking and personal exploration.(ARC obtained at Book Expo of America convention.
I wasn’t familiar with Caitlin Doughty’s work before I picked up her book -- I’d heard her name but had never perused her video series or Jezebel articles -- but I’m interested enough in the grieving process and familiar enough with death that I thought I would enjoy this.
Caitlin talks a lot about the kinds of activities that she performed on a regular basis and how those things shaped her views on life and death: transporting deceased people, preparing their bodies for a final viewing, handling unclaimed remains, and dismissing the general public’s misconceptions of her job.
"Smoke gets in your eyes, and other lessons from the crematorium" is partly a memoir and also partly tells us the history behind death customs.
I found this all incredibly morbid, but it was really very interesting.The subject matter contained within this book is gruesome and abrupt.
I think, personally, Doughty tells us the gruesome and difficult to prosess details, not to shock, but to enable her readers to feel more comfortable when it comes to discussing death.
I feel she did that amicably.
I found this book to be thought provoking, interesting and even funny, at times, and I'd certainly recommend it.
I'm still on a kind of coming-to-terms-with-Dad's-death reading program, and since we followed his wishes and had him cremated, this book seemed like it would offer real insights into that process and help me understand what his remains went through.
She doesn't pretend to offer much information on the experience preceding death (how to accompany a dying person in their final days or hours, for instance) or how to cope with grief and grieving, but that isn't really her metier, and I've been able to research elsewhere into those aspects of the death process.
She got a job as crematory operator at Westwind Cremation and Burial mortuary in Oakland, California and her experiences there were another step in her journey to make sense of her personal feelings about her own mortality and also to explain the way Americans experience death.Although the subject matter of this book may seem morbid and gruesome, I found Ms. Doughty's writing engaging, humorous and not at all grim.
In order to understand how society has become so distant from the thoughts and emotions regarding mortality, Ms. Doughty provides a kind of history of death practices in the United States.
My fascination with the macabre and death is perhaps a case of staring at the boogeyman till he loses its power over me.This book gave me the opportunity to stare very hard!Part memoir, part research and full of the right intentions this book covers a range of death related topics:1) Death rituals of other cultures and just how skewed the Western worlds desire to detach itself so completely from death and any reminder of its own mortality2) Death through he ages – from medieval times to now3) Co
Trust me on this!The writing is not bad for someone who does not make a living off of it but its no literary masterpiece and overall is around a 4 star rating.
However what the author is trying to do with this book and her very cheesy You Tube videos, is bring education and demystification to us, a culture that will do everything we can to ignore our own mortality.
For that effort she gets my full 5 star rating.Highly recommended!!
Caitlin Doughty has been obsessed with death her whole life, so it’s only natural she goes to work at a crematory.
In her tales, she busts a lot of myths about the death industry, like, no, crematories don’t dump the day’s worth of bodies in and scoop out bits of ash for the families’ urns afterward.
At least, reputable ones don’t.
She ends on a philosophical look at life and death, how our culture views death, and how we can change that.
It’s just the book I needed this month.– Ashley Holstromfrom The Best Books We Read In April: http://bookriot.com/2016/04/29/riot-r...
This is a book written by someone who has spent a lot of time ruminating over what makes a good death and what should happen with the body.
The fact that she can discuss these topics and make them so riveting, compelling, and in some cases, downright laughable make this book not only a super important read, but a highly enjoyable one.I am an emergency medicine physician.
Caitlin speaks about the need for people to think about their own mortality and what they would like to happen with their bodies after their death.
Doughty adopts the authorial persona of "cheerful goth" which largely works for her approach, combining anecdotal accounts of her time in the death industry with repeated polemics to bring death back into our daily awareness through proximity to bodies and decay, a la her "Order of the Good Death." There are some weird tonal shifts that I think may be evidence of clumsy editing (e.g., a single chapter digression about her love for a friend named Luke does tie back thematically in a strained way, but the concluding tossed off aside about a hunky teenager she beds as a rebound is a weird touch in a book that otherwise skims the surface of her intimate interpersonal interactions).
Hace muchísimo tiempo que quería leer algo escrito por Caitlin Doughty, me encantan sus videos de Youtube y toda su propuesta acerca de ser más "death positive" me parece muy interesante.
Como ejemplo, el capítulo que dedica a la tarea que implica cremar cadáveres de bebés recién nacidos, se titula "Demon Babies" y hace reflexiones y comparaciones que te hacen esbozar una sonrisa con temas que de otro modo pueden ser difíciles de digerir.Lo que más me gustó de este libro fue que me hizo sentir.
Yep. Just the heads.But then again, no job is perfect, right?Caitlin Doughty captures her experiences while working at a mortuary and later going to school to make it official, with humor, insight and horror.
She has an extremely fanciful imagination and morbid wit that keeps you listening even when things get really dark or really disgusting and believe me they get disgusting!She delves deep into the history of death rituals and how it all evolved into the system currently in place today.
I guess it’s hard not to when you face down death and deal with the aftermath every day.
Death happens to everyone sooner or later and there’s no point living your life fearful of it coming for you.
W.W. Norton & Company grabbed my attention with this synopsis of Caitlyn Doughty's Smoke Gets In Your Eyes: And Other Lessons from the Crematory "A young mortician goes behind the scenes, unafraid of the gruesome (and fascinating) details of her curious profession."If you've ever wondered why anyone would become a mortician, work in a crematory or choose to help the living in the process of death, then this is the book for you.
The quotes contained here are from an uncorrected proof provided by the W.W. Norton & Company who graciously provided an e-galley of Smoke Gets In Your Eyes: And Other Lessons from the Crematory to be published in September 2014.
Did you ever read the first line of a book to see if it grabbed you?
Well, this odd memoir grabbed me from the first sentence and wouldn't let go until the end of the source notes.Most of us probably hold at least a little bit of morbid curiosity about what goes on behind the doors at your local crematorium.
Your curiosity will be more than satisfied by Ms. Doughty's account of her years as a burgeoning mortician.
Doughty seeks to reconnect us with the very last page of the last chapter in our book of life.
Compare our squeamishness with the openness of various Asian countries, where one might see dozens of corpses floating down the Ganges or Buddhist monks meditating on a decomposing corpse as a memento mori.Doughty is in a somewhat awkward position: she is part of the very American death industry she is criticizing – those “professionals whose job was not ritual but obfuscation, hiding the truths of what bodies are and what bodies do.” Although she reveled in her work at the crematorium despite its occasional gruesomeness and seems to believe cremation is an efficient and responsible choice for body disposal, she also worries that it might be a further sign of people’s determination to keep bodies out of sight and out of mind.
With humor, compassion and interesting facts about death-culture, Caitlin Doughty takes us with her into the crematorium.
We learn about the embalming process, what happens to a body in a cremation oven, and why make-up on a corpse is more important than you think.
True, reading vivid descriptions of embalmed bodies, cut-off heads and burned body fat takes some getting used to – squeezy people should better stay away from this book – but Doughty always manages to see the beauty or the funny awkwardness of the (gory) situation.
It's kind of weird that in our culture, we'll talk endlessly about what might or might not happen to our souls after we die, but it's considered morbid or impolite to discuss what happens to our bodies when we die.
If you're concerned about where your trash goes, or whether or not you can recycle that plastic salad container, maybe spare a thought or two to how you want your body disposed of when you're done with it.
This book is informative, thought-provoking, and an enjoyable read.
Lots of good stuff in here about cultural rituals surrounding death, and corrections to the misinformation out there about bodies.
Caitlin Doughty is doing great work to educate the public about all aspects of death.
In Smoke Gets in Your Eyes, Doughty tells the story of the childhood event that first sparked her fascination with death, her experience working as a crematory operator, and her foray into mortuary science education that would eventually allow her to start a mortuary business in Los Angeles.
Doughty advocates for the good death: an exit from life that is demystified, planned for, minimally painful, and strengthens family bonds.
It all starts with a culture that destigmatizes death and sees it as a natural part of life: the very part that gives our limited time on Earth focus and meaning.
I totally agree with the author that society needs a very deep, very honest re-think of how we approach death, and how we deal with our dead bodies.
Our current 'norm' of embalming/burial, or cremation, wasn't always the norm.We are woefully ignorant of what the law actually does require regarding a dead body ...
Death used to be handled by the family, in the home, and had more significance.You can now order a cremation online ...
if you want them.I like the author's writing style, and think she did a great job with this book.
What an extremely well written and informative look on death and the behind the scenes of cremation and burial.
Fighting to bring mortality to the forefront and to squash the misinformation surrounding death in general from cremation to burial and everything in between.There is a list toward the end of the book from a paper written in 1961, from the 'Journal of Abnormal and Social Psychology' that gives seven reasons humans fear death.1.
Afraid of what might happen if there is a life after death.
Afraid of what might happen to the body after death.
This book provides a thorough description of bodily death and decomposition.
It's an unpleasant subject, but the reader is wiser for having read it.The book is structured around the author's memoir of her several years working in the funeral business (i.e. body disposal business).
This experience included time working in a crematory, attending mortuary school, and then post-school employment as a body transporter and funeral arrangements planner.
Her story includes an episode in which she considered the option of suicide.I understand the author's comments about modern embalming practices to be generally negative.
It's a book I would never read on my own initiative.
The closer we come to understanding it, the closer we come to understanding ourselves.I struggled with this book.
It was very interesting and I especially found the idea that most of us are not in touch with our mortality and that we try and avoid death and everything related to it at all cost thought-provoking.
On the down side I couldn't figure out if it was supposed to be a memoir or not, and it felt a bit like the book was all over the show - telling you a bit about this, then jumping to something else etc.
The author writes with a hefty dose of dark humour (really, is there any other kind suitable in this line of work?) but still maintains her compassion for the dead and their families.
Although she poses little thought into the afterlife (if any), she considers the religious and cultural implications of death and the dying process.
On a personal note, in my working life as a nurse, I have had my fair share of encounters with death.
It was fascinating to get a glimpse of what happens next.Some of the book makes for uncomfortable reading, particularly descriptions of dead children and the decaying process.
