https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/37755.It_s_Not_the_End_of_the_World
This is what I remember from this book:1. Karen had a desk made from someone else's old dining room hutch.2. She took a bubble bath with a girl.3. The tone is similar to the movie "The Secret Lives of Girls"4. The diorama has glitter and sparkles that had to be vacuumed up when the thing was smashed into bits and tossed on the carpet.5. They go to Hojo's and have to eat their bad food while hearing some equally upsetting news.
When Judy Blume writes a book like It's Not the End of the World, taking on serious issues that affect families to their very core, it feels as if she's writing about something that really has happened.
Even here, though, Judy Blume gives out no artificial happiness or sudden epiphanies; Karen just tries to step into her strange new life and keep moving forward, trudging through the sadness and shame that she feels because of her situation and hoping, just hoping, that eventually things will get better and her family might again begin to feel somewhat whole.It's Not the End of the World is a remarkable accomplishment by an author renowned for not shying away from difficult topics.
Great book for kids going through a divorce, even if a few of the details date the book. Karen Newman is perfectly drawn, and her brother Jeff is just right as well. I love it that their mother is far from perfect, smashing figurines on the floor, putting her head down on her plate to cry and getting gravy in her hair. Typical Judy Blume, an unsentimental snapshot of a marriage breaking up, from the kids' point of view. Good reading for all ages.
This is a Judy Blume book that I had never read as a pre-teen or teen. Maybe because my parents never got divorced, so this book wasn't as interesting to me. I can see how children with parents going through a divorce would appreciate this story though, as Karen grapples with her feelings and the turmoil in her household as her parents fight, separate, and divorce.
What I like about the book is, it is realistic. It doesn't give hopes of surreal future, nor has the touch of fairy tales to it. Its what we experience in our lives - failures, disappointment, that feeling when even though we try so hard for something, sometimes we don't succeed. And eventually, we'll learn to live with it. It's rare, and I appreciate it in a book, in a writer.
My parents are divorced, so I was able to relate to Karen and her siblings.
I thought it was good Karen was able to make a good friend with someone she could talk to about what was going on in her life.
Setting The book, It’s Not the End of the World, takes place in modern time in a small town.
From the context of the book, I could tell it took place in a small town.
Karen and her siblings thought things were not going so well in life, but they got through it.
In the beginning of the story Karen lives in her family which includes a brother, a little sister, mum and dad.
However, Karen doesn’t give up and attempts different ways to get her family together until her brother disappears.Part 3: One relationship that the main character has.After Karen’s father moves a new apartment, Karen goes to his new home.
Beginning of the process, every child thinks their parent’s divorce is the end of the world; but after they read this book their idea might change in a good way.
I never read this one when I was younger, but lately I've been into Judy Blume and either re-reading her children's novels, or catching the ones I missed.
I got choked up at the part when Karen tries to come up with alternate theories as to what is happening (Daddy has to sell the furniture store!); I did the same thing in the weeks leading up to my parents' split, sensing that something was wrong but not knowing what.
The book just sort of drops off with the end of the school year, but the changes in Karen's life are really just beginning.
Did she know that before she married him?
Even though I am beyond the Judy Blume years, I still think she writes well for at that time, young adults, now tweens.
(I think most paperbacks are running close to that now.) It makes me wonder … if I go back and reread all the Judy Blume books I read as a child, would they also be showing their age?
In 1972, that was not a surprising occurrence, but if you read that today, you would immediately gravitate towards a child abuse scenario.I thought this book brought up a lot of good questions that I am sure children of divorce must ask themselves all the time.
Karen is in sixth grade.
Lately her days have been getting bad grades.
The nasty things they say to each other, in front of their three children (Karen has an older brother and a younger sister) are devastating.
Karen's father moves out and her parents announce they are getting divorced.
Karen tries desperately to devise a way to get her parents back together.
Her parents are not interested in or capable of working things out.
I cringed when I was reading it.
A realistic portrayal of how American families behave behind closed doors, perhaps, but one that is very hard to read.
I loved Judy Blume growing up, and when I saw It's Not the End of the World on my library's e-book list, I thought, "why not?" and decided to read it.
I did not realize that this book is more of a middle-grade novel, but it was still good enough for me to finish it.Karen is 12, and a middle child.
I think it would be a great book for parents who are divorcing to read with their children.
Judy Blume is one of those authors that doesn't write duds, and It's Not the End of the World is no exception.
I read this book when it came out in 1972, I was 11 at the time and a massive reader then as now.
My progressive in reading went from Dr Seuss, to Frances Lattimore and Carolyn Haywood, to Beverly Cleary and last but not least Judy Blume.I had no memory of this book at all, after all 44 years is a long time.
At the time, I didn't know anyone with divorced parents and by the time I graduated high school, I only knew of a handful.
The feelings Karen experiences are as relevant today as they were yesterday, albeit perhaps for a younger age group.
She's in sixth grade, but her naïveté and while hopes of reuniting her parents are age appropriate, her plans are much less mature, IT'S NOT THE END OF THE WORLD is appropriate for kids five and up experiencing divorce in their families, though I'd wait until kids are in 2nd or 3rd grade otherwise, unless they express an interest in the book.
She, her older brother and her younger sister have different ways of dealing with this.
Karen's way is to try and figure out how to get her parents back together.
(It's not a spoiler to say that THAT particular plan doesn't go well.)I think my favorite thing about this is the fact that Karen's parents are good people.
And rather than hate each other and be miserable and drag the kids down with them, they choose to get a divorce.I'm pretty sure that's how it goes most of the time, and I think it's a good thing for kids to see---there's not always someone at fault.Recommended.
These young teens and parents do not text or twitter.
Yet this book about a family that experiences the turmoil of the parents' divorce is still relevant, still fresh and will still move you as a reader/listener.
Karen, the main character, middle child, 12 years old - reasons her way through the different family members' responses to this experience, trying to make sense of what was happening.
The scenes between the father and mother - clearly not in love anymore - are heart wrenching not only for Karen, but for the reader/listener.Judy Blume's book is timeless.I listened to this on audio read by Becca Battoe - she did a great job reading from Karen's perspective.
I think it was a good book because it showed about children dealing with their parents getting divorced and how they have to understand everything their parents are dealing with.
Also, it shows that how the children might be affected about the divorce like it could affect them in their school work or it might start putting things in their head and start to worry about things that they shouldn't think about.
In this book, it shows about friendship and how sometimes you have to trust your friends and tell you what is best for you.
This book shows about moving and how do leave your family and friends.
Spot-on for emotions whirling during a divorce, for both the kids involved and the parents. Well done book. Only thing I didn't like (though it may be a real book, with out-dated and therefore pretty bad research) was a divorce book for kids that was cited several times in the novel. The information was often wrong, and always insensitive. But the novel itself was good and often countered what the divorce book said, which was good.
Another re-read from my childhood. I kept waiting for the part where the main character plucks off all her eyebrows, then gets in trouble for not taking her sunglasses off at school. Then, I realized I had it confused with a similarly-themed Paula Danziger book. Still good, though--I love reading a book in 45 minutes. Makes me feel so smart.
Judy Blume has recently became one of my favorite authors. This book was amazing! I was actually looking forward to reading, when it came to the book. I would really encourage you to reading this book. It is absolutely amazing!
During separation and divorce kids can go through a range of emotions and struggle with a lot of questions. Judy Blume handles the issue of divorce well in this book. For kids in the throes of divorce this is a good read.
2018 book number : (1)It’s not the end of the worldAuthor Jody BlumePages (211)My opinion:I really like the story the whole idea is about divorce and what can divorce do to children And how it can influence on them !
anyway I think you all should read like this books its full of ideas and information that will help any child recognize that if your mother or father never says bad things about each other it’s because they think that it’s better for you not to know about each parents fault, they might think that you can only love a person who is perfect 👌🏼 Quotes from the bookAmy” The one who asks the most questions learned the most.My mother keeps saying my father is a great person “ I said Val laughed and said Uh-oh!
I was one of the few kids in my neighborhood whose parents weren't divorced, or separated, or miserable with one another.
When her parents announce that they are getting a divorce, it hits all of the kids hard.
And Karen, both angry and sad, is determines to get her parents back together.
I can't imagine having to grow up in a house where screaming and fighting is a part of the everyday, and viewed as normal.
And for the kids to realize that sometimes parents are better apart than they are together, and it has nothing to do with them.
Rating : 4 starsReading a children’s book is always a good thing.
Reading a children’s book that presents reality is better.I’m not a fan of Judy Blume.
This, though, is a different ball game altogether.Karen’s parents are getting divorced, and she wants to prevent that from happening.
And yet, she wants them to get back together, because the idea of them living under different roofs isn’t something she can digest.The book is not humorous per se, considering the kind of topic it deals with, and yet, the simple innocence that kids possess makes up for that, and ensures it’s a good read.What needs to be appreciated in particular about the book is that it gives no false hopes.
I learned a lot from her as a kid, and I wish I could personally thank this woman for that.
Even now as an adult her books bring me a lot of comfort and happiness, and I don't expect that will ever change.While I did not personally experience divorce as a kid, I had a few friends who did have parents who split up.
I hope young girls, and boys too because screw gender-typing literature, continue to read these great Judy Blume books and learn from them as I did growing up.
This book is about 12 year old (I think that's her age) Karen who finds out that her parent's are getting a divorce.
I can't remember any of my friends parents getting divorced while growing up, but this would have been a good book for them to read.
This book if from the '70s, but I think it would still help kids understand a little about what's going on with their parents.
I'm in my 30's and my parents are still married, so this book doesn't apply to me, but since I never read Judy Blume when I was younger, I figured why not now.
It’s Not the End of the World by Judy Blume is about 12 year old Karen whose parents are constantly fighting.One day, Karen’s parents decide they want to get divorced.
Karen tries as best as she could to persuade her parents to not go through with it, but they do anyway.
And there’s so much more drama: her brother running away, meeting a new girl that lives in an apartment near her dad’s new apartment (whose parents are also divorced), and her friends trying to be supportive.
I recommend this book to anyone who is in middle school and to whoever has divorced parents.
It’s Not the End of the World is about Karen Newman, a sixth grader whose parents are divorcing.
Despite all odds, she is obsessed with the idea of getting her parents back together.
Blume is an expert at trivialities, following Karen through the ebb and flow of her day to day as she slowly learns that life will go on.
It’s Not the End of the World is written for a slightly younger audience than many of Blume’s young adult books.
There are no middle school classes that teach children how to deal with change, but Blume has got it covered.
I just finished reading "It's Not the End of the World", a realistic fiction book written by Judy Blume.
This book it's about a teenage girl named Karen that has been going threw her parents planning to get divorced.
Karen is scared that her parents will get separated so Karen is trying to not make them get divorced or separated.
I really liked this book because it was interesting when she describes how she feels, so mostly I liked it because it was descriptive.
I would recommend this book to someone who likes descriptive books.
I hope you enjoy reading "It's Not the End of the World".
I always liked Judy Blume's children's books when I was a kid and wanted to reread this one before releasing. This would be a good book for a young girl whose parents are going through a divorce. It follows Karen's denial and later acceptance of her parents' pending divorce and all the problems the children have to deal with during and after. It wouldn't be a bad idea for the parents to read it either...
I understand the importance of a book like this. The subject of divorce is hard to understand, especially for a child. The main problem I had with this book is that it felt unfinished. There were also scenes between the parents that felt almost too real. The fights were uncomfortable and made me feel like I was spying on people. In the end, Karen started to accept her parents divorce and was trying to move on. Sad to say that this was far from my favorite by Judy Blume.
