https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/76846.The_Secret_of_Father_Brown
The fourth (and next-to-last) collection of Father Brown short stories includes 10 of them with the first and last ones serving as framing for the rest of them.
In my review of the previous book I complained that Father Brown always turned out to be much less superstitious than atheists around him.To my relief this time Chesterton let the theme of feeble-minded atheists go and as a result this book is an easier read.
One more difference with book 3: that one had Father Brown investigating murders exclusively.
It is easy to see why the Father Brown Stories are Chesterton's most popular works in our modern times.
The other aspect of his short stories that works a lot better are that the lack the allegorical and fantasy elements of The Man Who Was Thursday all of which further makes them more accessible to the reader.A good example of how Chesterton shares his philosophy through the plot is this:
The Father Brown Stories are as relevant today as when they were published and, in my eyes, G.K. Chesterton is a must-read author.
I had thought that, after three volumes of short stories about that intrepid priest/detective, Father Brown, G K Chesterton would tire of his creation, with a resulting diminution in the quality of the stories.
This is perhaps shown to best advantage in "The Vanishing of Vaudrey," though at least three of the other stories also develop this theme.My favorite stories in the volume were "The Worst Crime in the World" and "The Chief Mourner of Marne," in which Brown manages to penetrate particularly resistant knots to arrive at paradoxical truths.Although I call Father Brown a detective, he really wasn't one.
Y por la gracia del señor tengo en mis manos el relato del Secreto del Padre Brown y otro más llamado La Cruz Azul en un libro que incluye un cd para escucharlo en ingles y les puede decir que me fascinaron.
Un buen día vi el pequeño libro en un estante junto con otras obras clásicas y me lo llevé porque era finalmente el Padre Brown, cosa que nunca pensé ver en mi ciudad, era la edición de bolsillo con cd, bilingüe y que solo vienen dos relatos.
Disfruté cada palabra, cada parte de la aventura en La Cruz Azul y su despliegue lógico en el Secreto del Padre Brown.
Picked this up at a railway station on the way home from the NSTB Awards... just looking for something to take me home to Cornwall. But what a little gem. Dated, certainly, but such clever little mysteries. My first Father Brown, but not my last.
G.K. Chesterton’s tales of his humble little priest with “a harmless hobby of murder and robbery” continue to be a gentle joy.
They share almost impossible mysteries which can only be solved in the most convoluted and unguessable manner by a man who looks at things differently to others, combined with a gentle view of Englishness and a caustic wit.
David Renwick and Alan Davis often manage to squeeze more danger out of their work, but Chesterton’s sense of humour and keen intelligence is on display throughout and make these tales an always quietly enjoyable pleasure.
I bought this while I was on holiday, and it was pretty good for a holiday read. Father Brown really IS unassuming, which makes it a bit hard to bond with him sometimes, but they were nifty little mysteries nonetheless. Not necessarily an exciting read, but pleasant.My copy: bought new, in pounds.
“To Father John O’Connor,” wrote Chesterton in the dedication, “whose truth is stranger than fiction, with a gratitude greater than the world.” It is a gratitude the whole world still shares.This is perhaps the most intriguing set of Father Brown stories, as we meet “The Man with Two Beards,” and hear “The Song of the Flying Fish,” and discover “The Worst Crime in the World.” These are mysteries that look into the deepest mystery of the soul itself, exploring the nature of sin, of confession, of forgiveness.
I have a "Meh" feeling toward those stories.
Generaciju nakon A. C. Doylea, Chestertonov seoski svećenik uspješno stoji na ramenima divova.
enjoying these clever mysteries...
It would be very hard to place yourself in the mind of all the suspects in a criminal case since one would hardly have the time or opportunity to understand everyone sufficiently to know if they were capable of the crime.A more serious problem with such an approach would be that it would be hard to achieve any conviction unless a scientific method was used, since it would hardly stand well in a court of law for an investigator to say that he had imagined how the crime was committed.Then again, Chesterton is not really concerned with the arrest of thieves or murderers.
Indeed while Asian characters are generally unworthy in Chesterton, they are also considered as lacking the talents for serious crime.Father Brown is not too concerned about whether his deductions lead to arrests, because he is more concerned with the moral reform of the criminal.
"You may think a crime horrible because you could never commit it.
I think it horrible because I could commit it." The words of the immortal Father Brown, of course.
If I were not already a Catholic, I would certainly become one, after reading Chesterton.
- There you are, that was, I hope in the Chestertonian spirit.Seriously, I love everything Chesterton writes, although it is not always fun reading.
Sometimes he is celebrating his love for paradox just a little bit too much.
But how I love to find little nuggets like this: "I don’t care for spiritual powers much myself.
These stories are fine, but they are not memorable. In the final story when Father Brown summed up the various plots, I had trouble remembering which story was which. I will read the final book and two additional stories because I already have them, but I was disappointed in trying to find out more about the characters in the TV show.
I liked these stories. They're very readable and contain some nice characters as well as lines, but they're also becoming simpler and covered in an increasing amount of moral exhortations. Interesting and very wise at times, but not necessarily benefiting the stories.
reading Chesterton can be comparable to reading Umberto Eco. It feels like one's I.Q. goes up a few points after doing so. I read an edition with the added story, "The Secret of Flambeau."
Always love Father Brown. Enjoyed these stories.
Good middle-of-the-night reading, but all his stories start to have the same pattern, and I get tired sometimes of his prejudices.
Of the various collections of Father Brown Mysteries, this one, which delves into the thought process or deduction study of Father Brown is the best.
These eight stories each illustrate a philosophical point or insight about human nature and are framed by two chapters, beginning with “The Secret of Father Brown” and ending with “The Secret of Flambeau.” Flambeau, a reformed criminal and Father Brown’s long-time friend, has married and settled down on an estate in Spain, and Father Brown has just arrived for a visit.
In the end, the American must make his own moral choice when Flambeau, who he knows only as a respectable family man and by another name, reveals his own secret.I will definitely now want to read all of the other Father Brown stories.
And when I was quite sure that I felt exactly like the murderer myself, of course I knew who he was."Even after further explanation, the American still doesn't quite get it, so Father Brown introduces the stories as case studies in his method.The eight mysteries that followed are asolid group.
While, I don't think the cases rise to the level of the brilliance of the Incredulity of Father Brown, there's not a bad story in the lot.
Father Brown probably faces one of his most clever and surprising adversaries in this case."The Actor and the Alibi" tells the story of a theatre owner being murdered where everyone seems to have an alibi.
“For them, a jewel is a piece of glass: and they can see through the glass.
But the little, literal people take it at its market value.“For that you’ve got to have a small mind.
It’s awfully hard to get; like focusing smaller and sharper in a wobbling camera.”“Don’t you think,” he said, abruptly; “that this notion of yours, of a man trying to feel like a criminal, might make him a little too tolerant of crime?”Father Brown sat up and spoke in a more staccato style.“I know it does just the opposite.
It gives a man his remorse beforehand.”
I love that this is the whole basis of Father Brown's work:You don't realize how good you are and never will until you face just how bad you can be.The religious exercise that solves crime.
(The book was published in 1927.)As I mentioned in my reviews of previous Father Brown books, I think their idea of "short" stories back then was a little different from mine today, since this group seemed to average about 40 screen pages each (longer than those in the first 2 collections, but not as long as the "Incredulity", collection).
The stories are not told in the first person, but the "hook" implies that Father Brown knows all the details being related -- which in some cases means that he would have had to be omnipresent.
"The Secret of Father Brown" is another in a series of detective short stories written by G.K. Chesterton.
Chesterton was a contemporary of both Oscar Wilde and George Bernard Shaw, and while friends with both of his rival writers, he disagreed philosophically with both.
Oscar Wilde was known for his hedonism, while Shaw was an avowed Progressive.
Chesterton leaned towards the Church and his writings always contained references to the church and its tenets.
Father Brown, the protagonist of his short stories, used his learned experiences from the Church to solve many puzzles by extrapolating them to the nature of men.
After reading any book of Chesterton, I get the same feeling "It was the best book I've ever read", and this is because you will always learn from them.
I like to invest time in reading, but only if that time will become knowledge, wisdom, insights...
Chesterton makes that possible.
The best part of it, is that his writing is witty and whimsy thus you learn by being perfectly entertained.This book is very strong from a philosophical point of view, this is because the main theme is the fact that any person can do bad things, but that doesn't necessarily makes him or her a bad person.
Eight brief tales reminding us that great storytelling doesn't need hundreds of pages, just a handful, to trigger the imagination.Beautiful clipped and engaging prose frame engaging stories of crime with Chesterton/Brown showing that many things are not what they seem ... that appearances can deceive.As an aside, reading these stories I am reminded that, for me, the Kenneth More interpretation of Father Brown is much truer to the books than a more recent version, and I could not help often hearing Kenneth More's voice in my head as I read the books.
Fourth in the series of the Father Brown collections, we learn how Father Brown solves his cases. In an introductory and concluding chapter, our protagonist explains how he puts himself in the mind ofthe suspect and tries to think like him or her to see if that person would have motive or reason to commit the crime.The eight short stories between are then conventional mysteries as found in the previous Father Brown anthologies. As always, the prose of chesterton is one of life's great pleasures.
A murder mystery solving man of the cloth who happens to always be have mutual friends kilt. It's one of the hardest things to get right with mysteries... having the main character always be so involved with murder - unprofessionally. See The Coffee house series, Miss Marple, et al. The again, mysteries always seem to fall or fly based on "the twist". These twists are ok. I felt the author wrote himself as every character. It's hard not to think it when they have the same initials. Early 1900's mystery - seems to be obsessed with "foreigners" especially with beards.

