https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/43993.The_Quiet_Game
WINNER: BEST THRILLER READ IN 2015!Lemme tell you a story.I'm perusing the stacks at my local Books-a-Million (hitherto referred to as BAM), when I come across an absolutely gorgeous hardcover by a guy named Greg Iles.
Fuck my couch and call me Naugahyde, Natchez Burning is the FOURTH goddamn book in a series starring author/lawyer Penn Cage.
Start the series at the beginning, that's what.Horribly tragic side note: The Bone Tree (Penn Cage #5) just came out and it's just as fucking sexy as it's predecessor.
My first book by this author and I am not quite sure how to rate it.
Firstly it was far too long.
I like long books but only when the length contributes to the narrative.
At times it seemed every character was getting bumped off without a policeman in sight.
Unrealistic.On the other hand I found Penn Cage a very likeable character and wanted to hear more about him.
Having been assured by someone whose reading choices I trust that Iles is an excellent author I will try another of his books.
This is by far the best I have read from Iles so far.
The plot was brilliant, the characters even more so, so vivid that you could place yourself there among them.
My favorite character would have to be Penn Cage.
I can only see Cage becoming even more amazing.I loved the twists that Iles included in this book.
Iles takes you back in time to life in the 60's in the deep South.
And then brings you up to present day with a Prosecuting Attorney, turned Author, trying to right a 'very' wrong.
So many surprises that keep you turning the pages.

Penn Cage is a famous author with his own personal demons, after unsuccessfully trying to move on from the unexpected death of his wife, he takes his young daughter Annie home to Natchez, Mississippi to be with his family.
The mystery aspect was interesting, although slightly predictable and not nearly as exciting as all the attempted murder plot points inserted throughout the book.
While there was lots of action, and some lovable characters, the book left me wanting more from the story.
Penn Cage is an engaging character and one I found myself rooting for, however the ending was a little too complex and overly wrought for my liking.
Absolutely great! I love fiction by Southern authors, and you can almost feel the sultry heat in Greg Isle's words. I was gripped by the story from the first page to the last. Can't wait to read the next in the series. There are so many truths about the South in the pages of this novel, and I am going to make all my friends read it.
3.5 * It’s hard to fill 624 pages and keep the reader interested to the very end. Greg Iles has the ability to achieve this with a well crafted story of murder and settling of scores with those in power. With many smarmy characters along with action packed scenes, it is an engrossing read that will keep you turning the pages well into the night.
I read a brilliant review of Natchez Burning, and discovered that it was the 4th in the Penn Cage series.
While the review was clear that it's not necessary to read the first three to appreciate Natchez Burning, I am a bit obsessive about reading mystery series in order.
I like Penn Cage.
But parts of it were a bit trashier than I usually enjoy my mysteries.
But the negatives were not enough to turn me off from reading the rest of the series, and in fact I have now started no.
2 in the series, which I am enjoying more.
So I might make it to Natchez Burning...
Deduct no stars or partial stars for first person, but keep in mind when rounding.3.
Deduct 1/4 star for unnecessary present tense.
Deduct 1/2 star for unbelievability.Rating now 3.25 stars.5.
How does the book rate with its genre contemporaries?Iles has to compete with the contemporary crime writers such as Michael Connelly(his earlier work), Jo Nesbo, etc.
Deduct 1/4 a star for missing the bar.Rating now at 3 stars.
Some of my best friends are black."Deduct 1/2 star for failing to open a new perspective on an old or unknown topic.Rating now at 2.5 stars.7.
The Quiet Game is the second book of his that I have read.
Yes, he is a better read than Grisham and his characters are more alive and his description of events closer to home.
As a trial lawyer I am a bit critical of some of the procedural legal gaffs in this book, but they do not detract from the theme or pleasure of reading the book.
What intrigued me about this book is Iles honest discussion about race.
There are so few books, movies, media reports or other dialogue that so honestly deal with the race relations of our country.
If you have not read the book, you should.
“This is a good place to be from,” I murmur.Natchez is definitely a main character of the book, and I love Iles' descriptions of it, despite the fact that I know I'll probably never set foot there.
Also present are the ghosts of long-gone folks like Medgar Evans, Martin Luther King, Jr., J Edgar Hoover, and Cage's deceased wife, to name a few.In no time, Penn stirs up the citizenry, who all seem to know who was responsible for the murder but won't talk about it.
It definitely made me care for Penn Cage and continuing on with another book or two from this series.
This book had me trapped in the stinging closet of self-loathing for the very short time it took me to race through it.
And thank goodness is was fast-paced, because oh my God did it cause some eyerolling that would have been medically marginal had it continued unabated.
The characters were so incredibly stereotypical and alternately condescending/patronizing in so many ways that I audibly sighed to myself while reading this, as if to beg myself to turn back and put this book down.
If you like a good murder mystery and don't mind the phrase "poor man's John Grisham" constantly running through your head, pick it up today!
Penn Cage goes home, to Natchez, Mississippi, after the death of his wife to find his father is being blackmailed.
Being Houston prosecutor and familiar with the law he tries to protect his father, but he then becomes wrapped up in the 30 yr old murder of a black veteran.
Along with Caitlin Masters, a newspaper publisher, he gets involved with the FBI, the memory of an old girlfriend, and a judge who threatened to ruin him and his family years ago.
I found it a bit hard to get into the swing of Greg Iles' writing.
What was supposed to be a break for Penn, however, turns into a personal hell as he learns that his father is being blackmailed by a very sketchy character who is also a ex-cop and ex-con.To add further to his troubles, during an interview with Caitlin Masters, an ambitious local journalist, he mentions a decades old cold case that is long-considered to be a racially-motivated murder.
The Quiet Game is a really good book with some wonderfully-written characters.
Iles is a very good writer and The Quiet Game is an intelligent, complex book but I’m not sure I would read anymore in the Penn Cage series.
I was totally engrossed in this page-turner which is packed with courtroom drama, politics, scandal, secrets and lots of action.
Penn and his young daughter have returned to Natchez, Mississippi after the death of his wife in the hopes that his parents can help the 4-year-old get back to some semblance of normalcy.
Penn becomes drawn into the investigation of a murder that happened in 1968, 35 years earlier, where a young black man was killed by a car bomb outside the factory where he worked.
A fun book - I totally enjoyed it.
A good start to a smart series.
I liked how his character was introduced and how we were given just enough of a look into his past to let us see why he can be vulnerable at times and ruthless at others.
He has a good true nature and never lets on to others just how truly intelligent he is in order to keep them guessing and a little off balance without knowing why.
Dick Hill was a great voice for this character and kept a good fast pace without rushing.
I hope to listen to more of this series.
A tolerable, plot driven, audible mystery. Lawyer/author Penn Cage returns to his Mississippi roots to solve a cold case mystery. Interesting characters, insightful small town descriptions and a few twists involving racism, the FBI and big business.
Well, there’s no shortage of plot action in this one.
All kinds of crazy events (past & present) come colliding together when Penn Cage moves back home to Natchez, Mississippi with his daughter and agrees to look into an old unsolved murder case.Not exactly the relaxing, recuperative trip back home he was expecting.
Family secrets, conspiracy, greed, lost love and murder.Not a short read by any means - There is more than enough action and backstory to fill the pages.
A solid 4+ Stars and I am already looking forward to the next one.
This is one of the best books I've read in a long time.
I was immediately captivated and pulled into the story.
The story revolves around an unsolved 1968 murder in the deep south, a town called Natchez in Mississippi.
The settings, characters, dialogue, plot, outcome all are believable.
I loved the characters, even the ones I didn't like, if that makes any sense at all.
It's not often a book keeps me up late into the night reading.
I seldom have trouble setting whatever I'm reading aside at bedtime - I like my sleep.
This started off great guns, but then turned 'serious' and weighed the story down. Iles can write. Pity he relies on formulaic fiction. I liked the main character, but felt like he was the stuff of male fantasies, e.g, having two beautiful women after him, being a crusader for civil rights, taking on the bad guys singlehandedly, and so on.
This is not a bad thing--his books are awesome--but after being on GR for awhile, I began to dimly perceive that there might be other crime authors out there worth reading, as well.
Following that hunch, I chose Tana French and Greg Iles as the first candidates that I would interview for the positions of backup crime authors.
Tana French's first novel, In the Woods, I thoroughly enjoyed, and I also read her second.
She has made the cut.I was not as enthralled by this book as I was French's, but it was very enjoyable, too.
I just felt like some things were a little too convenient for Penn at times.
4.5 StarsI have to say I really enjoyed this book, it was a very long read but well worth it in the end.
I totally bought into the main character and the murder from 1968 that he was investigating, and the murder came at a very difficult juncture in his life.
I almost felt like cheering him for taking this on, and felt like booing every time the suspected culprits came centre stage (just like a pantomime).
The court scenes at the end of the book brought this all to a head very nicely.
I will certainly be continuing with this series.
I thought this was a mediocre, deeply lazy, paint by the numbers waste of time. For full disclosure I listened to rather than read this book and the narrators unintentionally hilarious attempts to do female southern accents really did not help. But the real problem with this book was a plot that stunk a mile away, a love for every cliche under the book, and some very clunky dialogue.Back to John Grisham.
Such a page turner !Great characters and I'm keen to find out what happens to them next so will be reading more in this series very soon.
Set in Natchez, Mississippi, the plot revolves around the 30-year-old unsolved murder of a black man, which Penn Cage, attorney and best-selling novelist, must solve.
The problem: Cage's wife recently died of cancer and his six year old daughter is so freaked out by this she has to sleep in the same bed with him.
SPOILER ALERT Some of the action near the end just wasn't credible: shootouts in dark warehouses, an impossible ride down a river in a rubber kayak, a long-lost daughter who may or may not have been the product of incest.
So I read most of this book on the way back from our Disney World Vacation.
Interestingly enough, the setting of this book began in Disney World.I read over 1/2 of this book on the way home.
It's a 559 page thick paperback.With that being said, you should know why I rated this a 5.This was an incredible book.
Library Journal said "this would transifx the readers till the very last page"...Dead on.Penn Cage has just lost his wife to cancer.
That hasn't happened in a long time.This is the 3rd Greg Iles book I have read.
I've meant to read Greg Iles for years, and I very much regret it taking me so long to get here. Holy hell, this was amazing. Layers and twists and surprise gut-punches all the way through, real, humanly flawed characters with some just outright bad to the core, and compelling, page-turning drama kept me from ever being bored in a damn long book. Penn Cage is a new favorite character and I look forward to much more!
My sister is the one who turned me on to books by Greg Iles.
I enjoy reading his stories.
He does so many things well.
His characters are wonderfully drawn and they all serve a purpose that helps create depth in the plot.
He also creates a great pace that keeps things in motion.
Now, I will say that sometimes he does seem to connect tangents that seem long, but ultimately they do add to the story.
I also like that his books are chunky.
It is so nice when a big book lasts and yet keeps my attention.
Iles creates a series of characters that fit his story line nicely ranging from newspaper heiress, Caitlin Masters, Judge Leo Marston, who represents the evil of the “good old boy” southern power structure, John Portman, an field agent in the 1960s, who thirty years later finds himself Director of the FBI, Livy Marston Sutter, the judges daughter who had a relationship with Penn in high school, Ike Ransom, a tortured black Vietnam veteran who wound up on the Natchez police force, and Dwight Stone, a former FBI agent who is blackmailed from divulging the truth, and many others.
Several people mentioned that this was quintessential summer reading (one person even compared it to Jurassic World), but for me a beach book should top out about 350 pages.
Additionally, several people mentioned that they felt they had to speed through it, lest they forget the minor characters.
The book discussion group was lively and hysterically funny.
I think what was the most telling, however, was that even though some of the readers liked it better than me, only one out of the nine attending said they were planning on reading more Greg Iles.2.5/5 rounded down.
