https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/929827.Quick_Service
It’s all the same, they ask, “What’s the big fuss?” The same could be said about a Wodehouse novel or short story.
For those not well-versed with Wodehouse’s geography, the differences between them are negligible; they blend together into repetitive themes.Within the Wodehouse universe, a meandering repetitive story line is not a bad thing.
They are problems to people who do not realize they have no real problems in their lives at all.The Wodehouse vineyard varietals include the better-known Jeeves and Wooster and Blandings Castle stories.
Perfection, as always.
Beatice Chavender's portrait, painted by Joss Weatherby, which she gave to her sister-in-law, Mabel Steptoe, causes a lot of problems in this comedy.
Lord Holbeton wants his guardian, J.B. Duff, to hand over some money so he can marry Mrs. Steptoe's poor relation, Sally Fairmile.
Duff wants nothing more than Mrs. Chavender's portrait, but having a past history with her and an intense dislike of women, he's reluctant to approach her.
Mrs. Steptoe is a tartar to some degree but being American, she lacks the social cache to be as haughty as Lord Emsworth's sisters in the Blandings Castle series.
"There lay before him in the years to come, he estimated, some nine thousand, two hundred and twenty five breakfasts, and at each of these breakfasts he would see this woman's face across the table. And he liked it. He was heart and soul in favor of the thing. By careful attention to his health, he hoped to make the total larger."
another good one! my collection of Wodehouse is growing!
Wodehouse has been consistently good so far for me.
The MacGuffin in this case is a painting - chased by several goofy personages, with or without moustaches.The names of the characters or of the sumptuous country manor may change from book to book, but the verve and the good natured banter are a constant feature of Wodehouse that makes me come back again and again to read about a "belle epoque" that may have been only a figment of the writer's imagination, but manages to make me feel better about the future and about my fellow humans.
Never in my life have I texted the acronym "lol," probably because I'm inordinately proud, but also because it's used entirely too often.
Very seldom does one, I find, actually laugh out loud from something that one reads.
Therefore I submit to the world the addition of "literally" to everyone's favorite acronym in order to produce a more accurate reflection of the world around us.
That being said, this book is so full of llols that one often has trouble getting to the end of a paragraph with breath remaining in one's lungs, at least if one is reading out loud to one's wife.
3.5*May 2018 reread/listen:Simon Vance does a good narration, though his American accents don't sound right to my New England ears. Still, listening to this book is a fun way to spend a rainy day.
This is somewhat more wacky than most of Wodehouse's books. Still, I am glad that I audiobooked it.
Starting out in Claines Hall, where Mrs. Chavender has ham for breakfast, setting off all sorts of consequences.She doesn't like it.
When Mrs. Chavender arrives, Mr. Duff avoids her but has the brilliant notion of using an imperious portrait of her (painted by Weatherby) as a poster.
And then Sally arrives, Joss falls in love at first sight, and when Mr. Duff fires him, he offers himself up for the job of valet.Oddly enough, Mrs. Steptoe, who owns the portrait, refuses to sell.
Thus setting Mr. Duff, too, to arrive at Claines Hall, where all these characters continue the wacky incidents and fantastical and whimsical plots of a Wodehouse novel.

Dieses Buch war mein erstes von Wodehouse, auch wenn ich die Fernsehadaption von Jeeves und Wooster kenne.
Statt des schlagfertigen Butlers dreht sich diese Geschichte aber um den frechen Künstler Joss, der sich unsterblich in Sally verliebt hat.
Leider ist diese verlobt und sein Chef setzt ihn auch noch vor die Tür.
Davon lässt sich Joss aber nicht beeindrucken und schmiedet stattdessen kühne Pläne, die auch den Diebstahl eines Gemäldes beinhalten.
Auch wenn die Geschehnisse alle vorhersehbar sind, ist das Buch dennoch überaus unterhaltsam.
Die überzeichneten Figuren sind allesamt auf ihre Art liebenswert.
Hoffentlich bleibt es nicht mein letztes Wodehouse-Buch.
Wodehouse, what else is there to say? An entertaining audio. Simon Vance is a great narrator!
At her sister's house party, Mrs. Chavender unwisely chooses ham for breakfast, thus setting off a chain of events affecting everyone at the house party as well as ham king J.B. Duff and his artist employee Joss Weatherby, who painted a portrait of Mrs. Chavender once which Duff would like to have.
This non-series Wodehouse uses one of his most common plot devices (house party, item in house which multiple guests and other people would like to steal, midnight encounters), to very good effect.
Joss is rather like Psmith in his resilience and quick thinking (though without Psmith's most individual way of turning a phrase), and the plot is quick moving and fun.
I’ve discovered the best way to read Wodehouse is as an audio-book – it’s just like listening to an old-school radio play, and it’s nice, especially while driving. This story has all the Wodehouse elements – this time combining the differences of class with the differences in age and the UK/US sensibilities. This story would also work very well as a stage-play too – it’s a lot of fun.
Finished this last night. Hilarious. I'd say it's my favorite Wodehouse book that's not part of a series. Joss Weatherby reminds me of Psmith a bit .
Arguably a very familiar Wodehouse plot (substitute whichever McGuffin you fancy instead of the painting), yet Quick Service feels fresh and original.Howard Steptoe was waiting for the new valet.
Mr Steptoe pointed a banana-like finger at it – emotionally, for it represented to him the last straw.“You!”“Sir?”“See that shirt?”“Yes, sir.”“Stiff.”“Precisely, sir.”“Well, take it away, or I’ll make you eat it.”Joss felt that the moment had come to be firm.
There was a compelling steadiness in the eye which he fixed on the fermenting man.“Steptoe,” he said quietly, “you will wear your nice shirt.” Although not featuring any Wodehouse regulars, it is inhabited by types he uses in other stories.
This is my second Wodehouse novel and I can see how they can become addictive.
They are easy to read, funny and the plot simple to follow.
The plot involves Weatherby falling instantly in love with Sally a poor relation of Mrs Steptoe.
She is an American living in a stately house in Sussex with a reluctant husband who misses the Sunny climes of California.
Thrown in is the fiancé of Sally who is an egg and Weatherby’s boss the ham king Mr Duff and his old flame Mrs Chavender.
The language and dialogue is delightful to read with laugh out loud moment.
A typically charming Wodehouse gem; all the familiar characters are here. The eccentric young man; the beguiling young woman; the intimidating older relatives; the conscientious servants. In "Quick Service" even the scary older relatives have their moments... it's hard to imagine a nicer way to spend a summer evening, than reading such typical Wodehouse.
Listed under the genre “Humor”, this seems to be a good example of upper crust British humor. Full of double entendre and snobbish euphemisms, it’s a fun book that made me smile frequently. Several serendipitous events contrive a silly story about ham, lost love, and optimistic outlook. I will think fondly of the characters that seemed to have no guile and everyone lives happily ever after.
Oh my this was such a fun, lovely read.
Joss Weatherby has to be one of my favorite characters ever.
Sally, the poor relation and fiancee of the rather bland Lord Holbeton, is another well-written character.
I have only read one other Wodehouse book so I'm not as well versed on the Blandings books as most.
Perhaps that helped me to enjoy the book even more because I had nothing to compare it to.
The characters are well-developed and it's fun to see them change throughout the book.
I'm going to start on the Jeeves books next so I look forward to more wit and humor in the future.
I have enjoyed every Wodehouse book I have read, but I especially like the Blandings stories. This one has very much the same flavor as the Blandings books, although it is not one of them. To choose to read Wodehouse, one is choosing to laugh at outlandish characters and farcical situations while all the time knowing everything will come out all right in the end. It is good escapism.
Let's just say that only Wodehouse can turn a boring event of eating ham at breakfast into a well crafted humor. Quick Service is quintessential Wodehouse - seemingly mundane tasks turning into comical acts. Although there are bits of perfection as one would expect from a writer of Wodehouse's caliber, I cannot help but compare it with Jeeves Series - which according to me is his best work.
It took me a while to get into this one. Perhaps I have read too many of P.G. Wodehouse's books lately. After a bit though, I got interested in the characters and their dilemmas. I think this might make an amusing play, giving the audience a pleasant evening of smiles, if not of laughs.
It all starts with a bad ham. Only Wodehouse could base a novel on a ham. That ham leads to young love. To criminal behavior. To renewal of lost love. And to a lot of fun.
Don't remember anything about this except I really liked it when I was a teenager. Obviously I should re-read it when I get done with the million or so books that I haven't read yet.
So fun.
Light hearted comedy with subtle romance. Weatherby was the star of the novel, loved his character. Nice book will appeal to all Wodehouse fans
Man sollte viel mehr Wodehouse lesen.
More light-hearted from by P. G. Wodehouse. Not his most riveting novel, but very good nonetheless, with some great humour.
