https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/575758.The_Dressmaker
She arrives one night at the train station with her bags and Singer sewing machine, and the only character I liked, Sergeant Farrat, drives her home to the smelly house on The Hill by the tip.Tilly was bullied at school as a bastard and is snubbed by everyone now.
She needed a tint and a perm and her feet were dry and cracked, like big long warts.”There’s the busybody chemist, Mr Almanac, who snoops in the photo packages that have come back from the lab to see what people are up to.
After twenty years, Tilly Dunnage returns to Dungatar, the small Australian town she grew up in, to visit her ill mother.
Returning brings up memories of her unhappy childhood and the tragic accident which resulted in her leaving Dungatar as a child.
Trained as a dressmaker at the couture houses of Paris, Tilly's beautiful gowns entice the prim and judgemental women of Dungatar and she becomes grudgingly accepted, until another accident causes the townspeople to turn on her.
I don't mind slow moving books most times but this one was painfully slow.
I did like Tilly but it was hard to understand her at times, Teddy I was so-so on...
"Mad Molly" was one of my favorites for most of the story.One of those where you really don't like most of the characters but still read on to see what happens.Never felt fully connected to everyone and I didn't understand the one blurb that proclaimed this a "Gothic tale" It didn't feel that way to me.A fine idea but not an entirely enjoyable one.
What a delicious book! I loved the dark humour of this Australian novel. The characters in the small down of Dungatar are so awful that you just have to love them. I loved the writing, the links with fabric, fashion and sewing, and could picture it all in detail. I'm sure I read this with a permanent smile on my face and I didn't want it to end. Highly recommended.
The Dressmaker was undoubtedly the surprise of the year.From the blurb: A darkly satirical novel of love, revenge, and 1950s haute couture Myrtle and Molly Dunnage were the outcasts in Dungatar, Australia. Paying for other people's sins were more like it, but the town did not find it difficult to make these two people the culprits of the town's many secrets, meanness and bigotry. Openly so. With no remorse of any kind.Myrtle returns from Europe with her special dressmaking talents and turns the
A darkly satirical novel of love, revenge, and 1950s haute couture
With no remorse of any kind.Myrtle returns from Europe with her special dressmaking talents and turns the women into a gang of bon vivants on a haute couture-high, while taking care of her disabled mother.
Many years of neglect resulted in her physical poor health, unable to take care of herself.When Myrtle returns, she decides to turn the tables.
There was a sinister town dumb and beautiful gardens.
What a delight it was.And then discover DeB MaRtEnS's informative review, providing the meaning of some of the names in the book!.
2.5★sWhen Tilly Dunnage returned after twenty years to Dungatar, the small Australian town she used to call home, she knew she would be shunned by the same people who had banished her as a child.
Tilly had been trained as a dressmaker in Paris; her skill was second to none – but that would mean nothing to the bitter and vengeful women of the town.Tilly’s mother, Molly was in a dreadful state – demented and filthy, Tilly was shocked at the state of the home.
So I’m sorry to say I didn’t like the book and was really disappointed, skimming through sections to reach the end.
دوستانِ گرانقدر، این داستانِ زیبا، در موردِ انتقام گرفتنِ زنی به نامِ <تیلی دانیچ>، از مردمِ پست و خاله زنک و دروغگویِ شهرِ کوچکی به نامِ دانگاتار میباشد... البته فکر نمیکنم این کتاب ترجمهٔ فارسی داشته باشدتیلی دانیچ که در داستان هرزگاهی او را با نامِ <مرتل> نیز میشناسیم، دختربچه ای بی پدر بوده که همراه مادرش زندگی میکرده است.. مردمِ شهر مادرِ تیلی را که مالی نام دارد، خودفروش و کثیف میدانند، لذا بچه های مدرسه و حتی بیولا هاردین، معلمِ کثیف و روانیِ مدرسه، دخترک را اذیت میکنند و کتک
او از فرانسه به استرالیا بازمیگردد تا از اهالی شهر انتقام بگیرد‎تنها کسانی که عاشقانه و دوستانه به تیلی نزدیک میشوند، جوانی زیباروی به نامِ تدی و همچنین گروهبان فارات هستند که تدی عاشق تیلی شده و گروهبان نیز که قلبِ مهربانی دارد و تمایلاتش زنانه است، قصد جبرانِ ستم و کاری را دارد که در گذشته به تیلی روا داشته اند***************‎عزیزانم، بهتر است خودتان این داستان جذاب را بخوانید و از سرنوشتِ آن آگاه شوید و ببینید تیلی دانیچ چه انتقام سختی از این مردمِ دروغگو و بد سیرت میگیرد و چه سرنوشتِ غم انگیزی در انتظارِ عشقِ او و تدی میباشد‎آیا واقعاً مادرِ تیلی فاحشه بوده و پدرش مشخص نیست..
آیا واقعاً تیلی دانیچ، استوارت پتیمن را به قتل رسانده است!!؟‎تنها با خواندنِ این داستان به پاسخ این پرسش ها خواهید رسید***************‎بخشی از نوشتهٔ کتاب‎مالی به دخترش تیلی: وقتی تو را از من دور کردند، میتوان گفت که خودم را کشتم...
The premise of this book is good; however, the novel involves too many characters and too many plots. Really struggled to get into this book at the beginning but did get better. Look forward to the movie.
But I really hope the film changes some aspects of the story because when I got to a certain plot point I wanted to throw the book across the room I was so upset!
I love the idea of this awful little Australian town and all its oddball characters that Tilly returns to.
But I struggled to follow all the characters and understand Tilly's motivations - when they are revealed, it seemed rushed and not terribly convincing.
I feel like more could have been done to flesh out the story and characters and make them more distinctive.
A gothic tale set in the Australian outback, the Dressmaker tells the story of Myrtle "Tilly" Dunnage on how she came back to her old town of Dungatar after being cast out and how she carried out her revenge on the people who wronged her and her mother.For a short novel, this was a bit slow because of the descriptive writing style of Rosalie Ham. A lot of characters were involved in the story which made me lose track of the narration quite a few times but I got the hang of it as the storyline progressed.What I did love about the writing is how visually pleasing the scenes were told.
With every character came an eccentricity perfectly described by Ham. The description of fabrics as a section opener was also a nice touch to the narrative.
Some really enjoyed, loving the quirkiness of the prose and the characters but some found the story a little dull.
A complaint from a few was the plethora of additional characters, which I personally felt were almost part of the scenery adding layers to the feel of the storyboard.
The third person narrative combined with the excessive amount of characters, at times, made the story lose focus for my personal tastes and caused my disinterest in the happenings.
I mostly enjoyed the heroine’s story and I wish more of this element had been explored within the prose to increase my overall enjoyment.
what a hoot! what a period piece! it's a slice of 1950s country town Australia. which makes it a slice of pavlova. you'll slap the laminex table in mirth. you'll settle back with a shandy in the banana lounge and chuckle your way through it. the descriptions of the gowns are divine! particularly one number that the author assures us "flattered her fridge like form". the humour may be lost on the foreigners, so proceed with caution if you're not from the antipodes...
I really did not enjoy this novel.I found the characters clichéd and one-dimensional; parodies of themselves. The prose was cringe-worthy at times and unremarkable at others. The references to 1950s Australian brands were nice for me as an Australian to recognise, but nothing more.Rosalie Ham appears to me, an un-fashion aware person, to know her stuff when it comes to dresses and dressmaking. Unfortunately, this does not translate to an enjoyable book.
Ms. Ham's attempt at memorable characters was a letdown and, instead, every person in this book was a complete caricature: there's the frumpy spinster, the highbrow mother-in-law, the crossdressing sheriff.
By the end of the book, there's an odd veer into a town production of a Shakespeare play and a baffling moment when Tilly gets her revenge that left me scratching my head.
While I enjoyed the peek into small-town life, I wish The Dressmaker would have stuck with Tilly's story.
I wanted to know so much more about this woman, particularly her past, but those moments were unfortunately dedicated instead to characters I didn't care for at all.
it's an Australian story which beautifully evokes the central Victorian countryside in which it is set; it is a great yarn, it's imaginative, darkly funny, enthralling and just so darn satisfying; I highly recommend it to anyone whether you've seen the film or not.
I read the book after seeing the film and am glad I did it in that order because inevitably changes must be made in bringing a book to the screen and while the film is enjoyable, if flawed, the book holds its own as a wonderfully warped piece of revenge fiction and a worthy addition to Australia's literary heritage.
Η Τίλη επιστρέφει μετα απο χρόνια στη γενέτειρα της για να φροντίσει τη μητέρα της.
Οι κάτοικοι του χωριού δεν βλέπουν την επιστροφή της με "καλό" μάτι.
Όταν εκείνη ράβει το νυφικό της Γερτρουδης, οι κύριες του χωριού, αρχίζουν να ανηφορίζουν το λόφο, ζητώντας της να τους ανανεώσει τις γκαρνταρόμπες τους.
Τα πρόσωπα του χωριού και οι ιστορίες τους ειναι ξεκαρδιστικές κάποιες φορές.
Βέβαια, η κακιά και οι μικρότητες δεν λείπουν, όσο κι αν πασχίζει η Τίλη να τους δείξει την αξία της.
Όσο σκληρά κι αν προσπαθήσεις, ειδικά στις μικρές κοινωνίες, ειναι πολύ δύσκολο να αλλάξεις τη γνώμη που οι άλλοι μπορεί να έχουν σχηματίσει για σένα, δικαίως ή αδίκως...3,5 αστέρια
I admit it, I'm a sucker for a novel thats been noticed enough to be adapted into a movie.
Most of the time I will read the book then see the film adaption to see where it differs.
I decided to read The Dressmaker because I think Kate Winslet is a phenomenal actress; she usually picks very interesting roles to play hence why I thought this would be an ideal book to get my teeth sunk into.
Because I couldn't understand the characters, I found myself not caring too much about them.Luckily this book was a relatively short read, so I read it in two days.
It is rare, but sometimes one comes across a book, read it and then think: I wish I'd just watched the film.This might be one of the worst books I've actually finished reading.
There were so many angles that I could have identified with in the main character, but I didn't because she was so badly built.There were attempts at foreshadowing at some points, but waaaay too late to be effective.
At every plot point revelation I felt like: oh, OK, I don't care.
Probably just because I didn't actually care for the characters.I skimmed most of the clothes' descriptions.
Ham had too many characters, too many time lines, and too much insanity going on in the plot.Tilly, raised an outcast and abused by everyone, comes home to her Australian outback town, a successful dressmaker.
Tilly dazzles the town with her dresses, not that the residents are worth impressing.
It would be hard to find a more unpleasant group of people than Ham portrays in this story: a cross dressing cop, a thieving postmistresses, a nutty spinster who thinks children are attacking her with seed pods...the weirdness goes on and on but never actually arrives somewhere.There are better books in the world.
A story of a depressingly poor community that ostracizes the family that lives on the "hill".
Tilly has come back home after traveling the world and learning her craft, to find her mother "Mad Molly" in very poor shape.
After holding her head high in town, losing two people very close to her, Tilly manages the ultimate revenge on the town.
But the story itself is universal and although I felt it halting in a few places, I think overall the author did a good job in conveying both the reasons for, and the act of, revenge.
Recently she had tried to contact her mother back in Dungatar and when she could not do so decided to come back.Having seen the movie a while back I had been keen to read the book, however I am very glad I gave it plenty of time between the two because they are very different indeed.
Though the dressmaking is very central to the plot in many ways, the images of everyone swanning around the town in designer dresses is wholly a movie thing, the book is more rational about it.
A great book. I loved the dark humour and the descriptions of the mean spirited people of the small town. Beautifully written.
I don't often feel this way but I think in this instance I enjoyed the movie more than I did the book.
It may not have helped that I was probably influenced by the movie and kept picturing the actors who played the characters, whilst reading which is not always a good thing.
He was such a character and a true friend I think to Tilly.
I must admit too that it helped my enjoyment of this book to have recently viewed the costumes from the movie here in Melbourne at Ripponlea House.
DNF @44%. I had forgotten that this was still on my "Currently reading" list, I've given up on it for.... a little more than a year now. The writing is atrocious, the characters are uninteresting and kind of repulsive, and the "character returns and shows them all! plot is overdone. But the biggest problem has GOT to be the characters.I watched the movie just to see how it ends, I wouldn't recommend it because I didn't enjoy it very much, but it was HEAPS better than the dumpster fire that is the book.
Acho que este livro tem demasiadas personagens e que elas não estão bem “desenvolvidas” o que para mim foi muito confuso ao início. Esperava uma história de uma vila mais calma e não com todo o turbilhão de personagens.
I really hope my teacher can explain this book to me and show me everything I missed.
Curses, like they didn't even explain it.
She wasn't really cursed but the way it is written is like she actually was.
What was this?Reading other people's reviews, they had said that the language, humor and character descriptions were extremely well written.
You have complemented the language, humor and characters but that all comes to dust without a strong plot.
As I said I am open minded and hoping my teacher can show me the beauty of the book.
It isn’t long before the women of Dungatar covet outfits made by Tilly, even though she is still treated as an outcast.
Why is Tilly an outcast?
Keep reading: all will be revealed by the end.‘Some people have more pain than they deserve, some don’t.’Ms Ham has peopled Dungatar (such a horrible name) with (mostly) awful people.
For me, the most likeable characters were Sergeant Farrat, the town policeman, and Teddy McSwiney.
But Dungatar has some dark secrets, some deep rivalries and plenty of unhealthy competition.I can’t write more without spoiling the novel for those who’ve not yet read it.
Ενδιαφέρουσα ιστορία αλλά με αρκετά προβλήματα..Για αρχή, υπάρχουν πολλά ονόματα και χαρακτήρες που δύσκολα συγκρατείς.
Η Ham στην προσπάθειά της να τονίσει την μικροπρέπεια και το κουτσομπολιό μιας μικρής επαρχιακής κοινωνίας,κάνει σχεδόν όλα τα πρόσωπα αντιπαθή έως αποκρουστικά.
Αυτό με ενόχλησε πιο πολύ απ'όλα.Επίσης κάποιες φορές αγγίζει τα όρια του μελό.Το τέλος αποδομεί,κατα την γνώμη μου,όλη την ανωτερότητα της Τίλη.Στα θετικά έχω να πω ότι η ανάγνωση κυλάει αβίαστα και κάποιες από τις ατάκες της Μόλη είναι πραγματικά πολύ έξυπνες.
Βοήθησε πολύ ότι είχα στο μυαλό μου την Κέιτ Γουίνσλετ ως πρωταγωνίστρια,διαφορετικά μπορεί να έδινα ακόμα λιγότερα *** (2,5 ήθελα να βάλω αλλά δεν έχει το 0.5)
Perfektní. Sice mi prvních pár stránek trvalo než jsem se začetla, ale potom to nabralo takovou energii a šmrc, že nešlo přestat. Na každou svini se vaří voda-skvěle vykreslené přisloví v celém příběhu. Určitě doporučuji, pecka! :-)
I didn't know what to make of this book at first. There was some slapstick falling face down in cream spunge kind of humour and then suddenly people were breathtakingly nasty. Just when you thought you knew where the story was going there was an unexpected turn. And then, bliss, sweet revenge.
