https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6546639-observations
I think of Michael Hofmann's tantalizing aside, in an essay on Stevens, that "Henry James [is] the Master and onlie begetter, I am increasingly coming to think, of all the great modernist poets, of Pound and Eliot and Moore and Stevens."[2] In a poem about New York City, Moore—who appears to have been a pro-capitalist Roosevelt-hating Republican, not unlike her contemporary Willa Cather or, indeed, Stevens—nonetheless praises the city, not for its commerce, which she lushly evokes, but for its "'accessibility to experience,'" a supremely Jamesian phrase she takes from none other than James himself.
Came out within the same time frame as Stevens', Eliot's and Pound's first truly modernist work.
Arguably the most democratic, actually that first generation wasn't democratic at all, other than Williams, of the first moderns.The last time these poems were all available in their original form, Moore was notorious for reworking early poems later in life, as well as pretty much ignoring much of her early work when she later assembled her Collected Poems in 1951, was in 1925.
So, if your familiarity with her work is based on that collection, you're pretty much missing some of her early, truly innovative work.
I don’t rate or review poetry. I will say that I am not smart enough for Moore. I think “An Octopus” was my favourite.
Amazingly inventive and intelligent with a genius command of the language.
It is so good to read this collection as it was (more or less) intended to be read, and to savor again the delectable oddities herein: Moore never fails to surprise, especially upon second, or fiftieth re-reading, and these poems abide as ever-new monuments to the imagination.
Couldn't get into this. Verses like beautiful shards of stained glass but I couldn't grasp the whole image.
Choose your gems wisely.
Marianne Moore is without doubt one of the most important poets of the 20th C. The attention she pays to detail and her ability to associate those observations across categories of lived experience with such wit and charm while maintaining a coherent through line of investigation is a high wire act of stunning poise and tension. One is NEVER FINISHED reading Marianne Moore. I have therefore elected not to include one.
