https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6192.Disgrace
This book made me want to read Twilight.
Yes, Twilight: perfectly perfect young people falling in love and never growing old.
It affected me more than I thought it could, in ways I hadn’t imagined possible.
The word disgrace is what struck me with nearly every page.
If you stay Coetzee will turn that word, disgrace, in your mind a hundred different ways.
The main character, David Lurie, is disgraced.
David Lurie is entering the disgrace of growing old.
Reels me in until I find myself suffocating in a world I want no part of.
And there have been some moments of genuine awe in my reading experiences, but I can without any trace of doubt testify that reading Coetzee is always one of them.Disgrace follows David Lurie’s fall from grace, a professor of poetry and communications, that is unable to fit in a tormented post-apartheid South Africa.
David clashes with the University’s politically correct environment as well as with the land dispute barbarism in the country’s interior, where his daughter lives.With an immaculate prose, in which no word is wasted, the novel is a plunge into a society lacerated by poverty, criminality and a social conduct values deadlock.
for those who can handle reading this book ....
David Laurie, professor, father, divorced, (twice married), jobless after and inappropriate affair, temporary farmworker, is a 'disgrace'.
David dips into a downfall transgression with himself and his daughter, Lucy.
.....It was easier for me to understand the "disgrace-of-David".....than it was for me to understand Lucy's train of thought after the horrific things that happened to her.
Step into Africa with J.M. Coetzee.....complex, controversial, personal & political.....Choices to cringe over ....yet compassion is circulating in our thoughts.
readers who are extremely sensitive to animals abuse, may not want to read this --- or skip over parts.
This short novel, written in spare, economical prose, tells the story of a not particularly likable middle-aged Capetown college instructor who falls into "disgrace" because of an affair with a student and is soon reduced to living with his daughter in the bush and working as a euthanizer at the local animal shelter. A violent incident occurs, and "disgrace" takes on another meaning. The novel is both merciless and compassionate (not an easy combination to achieve), and is also incisive in its portrayal of the changing world of South Africa.
Determined to do a better job as a parent as a middle aged man, Lurie feels the inherent need to parent Lucy at this trying time for both of them.
Coetzee's writing delves into what an affair and a rape is like for both the man and the woman, across lines of race and class.
Likewise, the younger generation that Lucy is a part of also does not see a need for white male protection.
As a result, as a reader, I am able to feel empathy for all of the characters, even the stubborn ones like Lucy and the disgraced David.
Looking at the world and its sickness, and feeling some of its constant, inherent pain is no easier.
But when these merge together, a glorifying truth is present; one we train ourselves to avoid in order to make life easier.
But to read Disgrace intently and honestly is to not have a choice in these matters, and the reward is a realness and truth found in very few novels.
Your way of life gets shaken.
Yet the general state of all life, as a whole, is exposed.
Because people are weak and corrupt, life for the individual wavers in many ways.
‘Perhaps it does us good to have a fall every now and then. As long as we don’t break’. Professor David Lurie is forced to resign when his affair with a student comes to light. His resignation and the humiliations he gets to swallow as a parent burn chinks in his cynical armour and self-image. By volunteering in a veterinary clinic, his indifference to man and animal gradually gives way to empathy. Disgrace deals with the human inability to communicate effectively and with the uncertain relatio
Professor David Lurie is forced to resign when his affair with a student comes to light.
Professor David Lurie ziet zich gedwongen ontslag te nemen als zijn affaire met een studente aan het licht komt.
Zijn ontslag en de vernederingen die hij als ouder te slikken krijgt, slaan barsten in zijn cynische pantser en zelfbeeld.
Door zijn vrijwilligerswerk in een dierenkliniek maakt zijn onverschilligheid voor mens en dier geleidelijk plaats voor empathie.
Hij registreert trefzeker de wrange gruwel van rauw fysiek en psychisch geweld.In ongenade komt aan als een mokerslag, maar resulteert in een catharsis die je niet licht vergeet.
It’s a little-known fact (where “fact” is understood in the contemporary, alternative sense) that the title of this book was originally an acronym that Coetzee used as a guide for writing it:Dishonor-Inducing Sex & Glaring Racial Antipathy Corroding EmotionsDavid Lurie, a white South African professor in his fifties, had taught communications and poetry in Cape Town.
With its setting in post-apartheid South Africa, a race angle was virtually inevitable.
Despite the lack of uplift, I did appreciate the writing and the plausibility of the angst.
Note that “Steve” itself is an acronym:Severely Testing Every Visitor’s Equanimity
I had trouble finding any beauty in it; and I think that is where the problem lies with this book for me.
No animal will accept the justice of being punished for following its instincts." Disgrace to him is not loss of his job, loss of respect, or loss of face.
When David leaves Cape Town to stay with Lucy in Salem in the Eastern Cape of post-apartheid South Africa, he will have time to ponder the state of disgrace and all of its inherent meanings.
I'm afraid for me, this book suffers from what I call the Booker disease.
--------SPOILERS AHOY AHOY-----------------------I looked through the GoodReads comments concerning this book and saw a lot of positive feedback.
What's the point of making an idea a piece of fiction if the author just uses all of the characters to spout off his views on rape, class, prostitution?
The author sets his narrator on fire and the dogs are the only thing that got me.For a better book about South Africa, try The Power of One. For a better discussion of the effects of rape try Bastard Out of Carolina or The Color Purple.
A savage, ruthless book.At the onset of this 1999 Booker winner, I thought I was reading the story of 52 year old Capetown romantics poetry professor David Lurie, who has an affair with a student over thirty years his junior.
It’s a whole other world - a world that buzzes with danger.This 1990’s post-Apartheid South Africa is a seething place, certainly unsafe for a white lesbian woman alone on a farm.
A terrible attack occurs, fuelled by hatred.So yes, it is a story about disgrace - but Coetzee casts his net far wider than an aging philanderer who abuses his position of power and loses face in the academic community.
Or to kick a cat.At the beginning, it appears pretty easy: - To hate David Lurie.- To take Coetzee’s writing for granted.- To assume that everything would fall in its right or may be wrong place.- To anticipate a letdown feeling by just another Booker prize novel.- To learn the same old lessons we have confronted since the original sin was committed.- To read another long-winded definition of Disgrace.But talent rarely hails from Planet Obvious and Coetzee, a talented writer he is, knows very well what it takes to write a good book.
He insists on what he calls his ‘freedom to remain silent’.Later, David's daughter refuses to report her rape.
Not higher, necessarily, but different.’~~~~What is the moral of these correspondences (which I write down here only to order my thoughts, not to elucidate the book's point)?
What makes Disgrace so impressive is precisely that it is no simple allegory, but rather a series of dynamics that echo and echo against each other in painful and confusing ways.Lurie's employers talk primly about the undesirability of ‘mixing power relations with sexual relations’.
A male who is skilled at manipulating ("playing") others, and especially at seducing women by pretending to care about them, when in reality they are only interested in sex….A certain class of low-rent, slack-jawed fuckups has decided that backstabbing and misogyny are totally radical, so the word is sometimes used as a compliment or term of endearment between male friends, as in the greeting "what's up, player?".Maybe others got a sense of woefulness and redemption and even thought that he might have ‘learned’ from his ‘disgrace’ and all that shit.
David feels satisfied combining this quiet life of debauchery with his comfortable post as a teacher at Cape Town University, but when his old age starts pressing on him, casting a shadow to his virile charms, he seeks for rejuvenation in lusting over one of his young students.
The starting point of a transcendental journey, which will change, not Lurie’s nature but the way he understands life, death and history.For his lesbian daughter Lucy is everything he is not, a sturdy countrywoman who runs a farm and a kennel in a foreign land, an idealist with a not yet fired gun for protection, a forgiving soul who takes him in, without judging or questioning.
Mientras uno lee el principio del libro, cuando David Lurie sacía sus necesidades con Soraya, la prostituta que frecuenta hasta que decide ir a visitar a su hija Lucy, no espera que la historia gire hacia una dirección inesperada a partir de un suceso puntual que sucede en la granja de Lucy y a partir de esto la acción se desarrollará sin pausa y luego de lo sucedido comenzarán a aflorar las miserias de los personajes, las culpas y las peleas.Es que David y Lucy congenian poco.
Eppure, anche loro sembrano avere giustificazioni: la segregazione razziale non si cancella con la spugna, la povertà esiste, la rabbia la violenza la voglia di vendetta prosperano in condizioni repressive e razziste, la miseria non è un punto di vista, uno dei tre ragazzi è perfino mentalmente disturbato: basta questo a spiegare, ad assolverli?Il professore appare fastidiosamente altezzoso e arrogante, però sa restare accanto alla figlia che sembra aver fatto una scelta molto irragionevole e dalle conseguenze tutt’altro che semplici: quest’uomo è davvero così superbo e borioso come i suoi colleghi lo dipingono e percepiscono?David Lurie è incapace di difendere la figlia, è debole e vigliacco come anche la figlia Lucy sembra pensare, oppure la violenza che subisce, il tentativo di dargli fuoco, spiega il suo non intervento?I tre stupratori uccidono anche i cani in gabbia.
So, how is it that I ended this book wishing him well?
It might easily be blown out, but perhaps it will find a way to burn on into the future; perhaps it will save Lucy and David alike.I have been being surprised a lot by the books I have been reading lately.
Lucy tells David that he sees her as a minor play in the story of  his life, but that she believes she is at the center of her own story.
We are all the center of our own stories and everyone else is a minor player.
If the old men hog the young women, what will be the future of the species?
Half of literature is about it: young women struggling to escape from under the weight of old men, for the sake of the species." I am wonderstruck by this 220-page novel, the 1999 Booker Prize winner.
It resonates on issues of the stages and value of life, the relationships between genders and generations, the animosity between races in South Africa in the 1990s, an interracial rape borne of hatred, the connection between humans and dogs, and, especially, the relation of a father to his daughter, as well as, of course, disgrace.I rarely find a novel transformative, as I did with Disgrace.
Listen. I decided I do not want to read stories written by men about men who are misogynistic pieces of shit and also rapists. I can and will happily go without the pretentious literary value these books want to teach me.
هل يستطيع الانسان أن يعتاد حياته ويتعايش مع الشعور بالعار أو الخزي؟ 1999 رواية للكاتب الجنوب أفريقي 
I thoroughly disliked the main character, David Lurie -- he is unbelievably arrogant and chauvinistic -- but that seemed less and less important as the novel went on, and totally irrelevant by the end.
But these characters and their lives have so much to say to the reader that their likability just doesn't even enter into it.This is an extremely complex book, with a lot going on -- I haven't even begun to unpack it all.
Lucy, David's daughter, becomes the focal point for most of these issues, yet she, as a character, would eschew the whole notion of "issues".
The first responders were a gallant, practical, and mostly male bunch who advocated either leaving it to return to the earth in due time, or swiftly transporting it to the nearest garbage receptacle wrapped in some kind of plastic or other, post haste.But then two Facebook friends -- both slightly older, pretty tough punk chicks, both cat owners, who live in different parts of the country and don't know each other at all -- told me that what I had to do, the only right thing, was to bury it.This option hadn't even occurred to me before.
This is all very quixotic, Professor Lurie, but can you afford it? We've started going over the terms of tragedy in one of my classes, working through the definition before setting off on our reading of Othello. One of these delineations uttered by my professor went along the lines of the difference between 'unfortunate accident' and 'tragedy', the death of the main character's lover and said main character's succumbing to a fatal flaw, respectively. I say, if that is indeed the linguistic case
One of these delineations uttered by my professor went along the lines of the difference between 'unfortunate accident' and 'tragedy', the death of the main character's lover and said main character's succumbing to a fatal flaw, respectively.
The past is a different country, and this disgraced David Lurie is a dinosaur of the worst sensibilities.
The main character is dislikeable on an instinctive level, enough that his supposed fall from grace appears as obviously very much his fault and his alone.
Appears, as this is my personal reception of this piece, and if you've been reading me long enough you know where my biases lie, and how I feel the need to express them.

It certainly had serious consequences.” ― J.M. Coetzee, Disgrace“When all else fails, philosophize.” ― J.M. Coetzee, DisgraceWow, folded into 220 pages is about everything you've ever wanted (or never wanted) to read about race, sex, power, family shame, suffering, humiliation, jus animalium, love and death.
I think Coetzee could fit more raw emotion and tender sorrow into one rangy clause than most writers could pack into a whole novel.
There is part of me that thinks I need to read this book again to more fully understand it, and another more rational part of me that understands I wouldn't be able to handle it.
Reading this book felt like watching something by a modernist master like Antonioni: lots of disturbing/haunting imagery and plenty to think about, but no easy or pat answers.Middle-aged poetry professor David Lurie, recovering from a scandal at his Cape Town university involving his affair with a student, retreats to the country to live with his daughter Lucy on an isolated smallholding in the Eastern Cape.
Perhaps that is what they tell themselves.” (hide spoiler)]The hitherto smug, ironic Lurie, who’s objectified women all his life, is forced to reevaluate his relationship with the traumatized Lucy.
Though his actions are not admirable, one cannot help but respect a person who demonstrates such resilience in the face of hardship.The central theme - disgrace – is in itself emotionally powerful.
The differences between male and female nature are contrasted here, both in their role as the cause of, and reaction to the various disgraces depicted.
The questions of responsibility, dignity and respect, are paralleled again in man’s treatment of animals, and indeed in man’s animal nature.
Coetzee absolutely explodes the central theme of disgrace, and leaves it to the reader to work through the mess.
This was an amazing book about a main character with an ambiguous moral compass. It was infuriating, it was interesting, it was just such a ride. Major trigger warning for rape and pedophilia, since pretty much the entire book revolves around that. But I just loved this. It made me think so much and we had amazing discussions in class. Highly recommend!
Coetzee points that man should learn to accept his nature of decay.
“. This particular snippet unveils Teresa’s call to the Byron of her youth, to the long gone man of her dreams as an ode from a woman past her prime, unable to let go of her past, unable to accept the passage of time, unable to come to terms with her mortality.
I guess what we can pick from it is live life to the fullest, so that when your time comes, you can accept death without any misgivings.
