https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/41710.Iceberg
That Clive Cussler is the greatest homophobic, perverse, women loathing writer of our time
dirk pitt books are my guilty pleasure; terribly written, totally unbelievable, but non-stop action. This however pushes me over the edge. A totally nonsense, aimless story, even for me the blatant sexism and homophobia (dirk pitt spends half the book pretending to be gay by mincing around in Danny la rue outfits) is a bridge too far. My guilty pleasure may be at an end after at least 10 books. Sad.
Iceberg is the second published book of Clive Cussler’s series featuring Dirk Pitt, taking the U.S.A.F Major to the north Atlantic and Iceland then to Disneyland.Taken away from his California vacation and dispatched by NUMA Director Admiral Sandecker to the titular iceberg in the North Atlantic, Dirk Pitt takes Dr. Bill Hunnewell to search for the ship before heading to Iceland.
Pitt gets revenge on Rondheim and then makes a deal with Fyrie, who had been Rondheim’s puppet after he learned Kirsti was actually Kristjan after a sex change.Like The Mediterranean Caper this was a quick paced book, but this time there was a larger cast of characters instead of a tiny one that was present in both Pacific Vortex and Caper.
Song for summary: Centuries by Fall Out BoyThis was an action packed read! The characters are determined, intelligent, and sedulous; while the plot is an entertaining combination of action, corruption, and science. This was another great Dirk Pitt adventure, one that is sure to satisfy fans.
That's not to say the arrival of a replacement e-reader wouldn't be a HUGE relief, but I'm coping.Plucked from the dusty depths this weekend was Iceberg, a very early Dirk Pitt adventure by Clive Cussler.
I was a bit shocked by the brutal violence, which is more extreme than I can remember in any other Cussler novel, but it does set up that heroic tundra trek that I mentioned previously.While it may not be the best Dirk Pitt novel, it's still a Dirk Pitt novel - and that always makes for a good read.Originally reviewed at Beauty in Ruins
So far I have not found even one Cussler book I haven't liked.Just perfect for any grown up fan of the Hardy Boys, with a hero that's a hint of James Bond (action, adventure, exotic locations, good food and drinks and women) and with a lot of science all over.
We are talking about a fictional hero whose contemporary heroes (and of about the same genre) were such gentlemen as James Bond.
So if you don't find the James Bond like heroes interesting and find how the pretty bunny girls were treated in the old bunnies offensive to you, go back to 50 Shades of Gray.
And then there are some you read just to have a good time and not think too much about them.So far, it appears Clive Cussler novels fit into the latter category.
Dirk Pitt is back, this time racing against time to find a ship frozen inside an iceberg.
I've heard the first two Pitt books are to this series what the first two Bond movies are to that series--they introduce the characters but aren't necessarily a reflection of how the series will evolve in later entries.
This novel is clearly a product of the time it was written and that's reflect in certain attitudes.
Easily the worst Cussler novel. Homophobic, misogynistic, and just plain awful. Reading this came as a shock after having read so many of his later books. I'd really recommend giving this a pass. It's just not worth suffering through.
Cussler’s books in the Dirk Pitt series tend to be either a hit or a miss with me.
I would remind them that, in the same way that you don’t watch a James Bond movie to see something realistic, you don’t pick up a Dirk Pitt book expecting a predictable storyline.
When Dirk Pitt arrives to investigate, he finds nothing on board except the incinerated remains of the crew and a few shadowy clues to the yacht’s missing cargo.
In his quest to discover the truth about the yacht, Pitt uncovers an international scheme to take over a continent.
Mysterious ship locked within an iceberg and Dirk Pitt is off to Iceland tracking down tyrannical killers plotting a major coup. Lots of very good action and a great fight at the end in the Pirates of the Caribbean ride with our hero dressed as the Big Bad Wolf. Big improvement on previous books but the depiction of women characters is dreadful - still getting there bums slapped and being told to stop crying all the time. He does not write women like that in the Isaac Bell series and it takes away from this series. Shame.
Really enjoyed reading this. I like the character Dirk Pitt tough cookie and a bit of a womanizer . This book has a very interesting and surprising twist with one of the characters at the end of the book in the epilogue . Got to check see if the next book in the series is available from the library.
Great thriller with a lot of action. Keeps you guessing and Dirk is certainly an engaging and intriguing character. From the settings to the characters, this was a fast moving book that really held my interest.
I thought I'd go back and re-read Iceberg, as I love the Dirk Pitt series and I hadn't read the early ones in ages.
I'm not a fan of political correctness, and I understand that this was written in the 70's, but the language and the stated intention of Pitt that he could "only survive by pretending to be a F****" were show stoppers.
It's not one or two insults, it's the entire concept of Pitt pretending to"not being a real man" that is the defining point of the plot and what theoretically allows him the victory.
This is the same comment for all the Dirk Pitt books:Great set of books, I had to stagger these books into my reading rotation since they are so similar. Dirk Series Book in less then 50 words.(introduction to bad guy, introduction to hot chick, introduction to Dirk, Dirk gets in impossible dangerous situations to stop the bad guy, Dirk wins, Dirk gets the hot chick.)
I thought this was a great Cussler novel. This is probably the first where you really start to see some of the outrageous plots start. The whole series is great and I personally think you can't go wrong with a good Dirk Pitt novel.
Iceberg once again provides the reader with an adventure undertaken by Dirk Pitt, this time pulled off a beach to ferry a NUMA scientist to investigate a mysterious ship locked within an iceberg.
Pitt finds himself committed to finding those responsible for the violence that follows him, his journey takes him from California to Iceland back to the states and finally to Disneyland for a less than happy encounter.Iceberg was an enjoyable read, still issues with the language and certain aspects that don't fit into the modern world of storytelling which would have passed unnoticed when originally published but are a little blatant these days.
Still, I spent some quality time reading this Dirk Pitt adventure and that's all I require from a novel, an entertaining story with compelling characters and Iceberg delivered.
James Bond i 07 Zgłoś się przy działaniach Dirk Pitt to po prostu ...
pikuś.
Ale taka ma być ta książka.
Opisuje bohatera, który uwodzi wszystkie osobniki płci damskiej, nie pomijając delfinów i fok, ale również "niepełnej" męskiej ;) Poza tym inteligencją i sprawnością umysłową przebija Śp.
Hawkinga i Einsteina razem wziętych.
Nie dziwne więc, że nikt z nim nie ma szans w starciu "zabili go i uciekł".
Książka do przeczytania w 1 wieczór i zapomnienia jeszcze zanim odłożycie dobrze książkę.
Ale taka ona ma być i tyle.
Kto lubi przeczyta, kto nie lubi niech się nie zbliża.
Ja lubię :)
A fun read! A great quick action tale. Easy to like the main character and all of his friends. The writing was clear and easy to follow. I enjoyed my first Dirk Pitt novel, but I don't need to rush out for the next one.
Admiral James Sandecker and has the one that assigns Pitt to this mission.Krisiti Fyre sister of the guy they were looking for but in the end she holds a big secret.The story starts out when a coast guard finds a ship stuck inside an iceberg so they report it back to base and they mark it by red dye.
On the way they think that it is a Russian ship that disappeared.
Hunnwell and Pitt research the ship they find all its crew with the owner of the boat Krista Ryrie made an underwater probe that could look for minerals without mining for them.
I'm very torn about Clive Cussler and his books.
When I started listening to audios about ten years ago, I started with Cussler's more recent adventure novels and loved them.
That book was totally fascinating.But then several years ago I made the mistake of listening to one of the earlier Dirk Pitt books - Iceberg.
I was prepared to give allowances for the fact that Iceberg was written a long-time ago, when Cussler was still developing his style.
And you know it's bad when I'm actually talking about burning books :-)So now I'm torn.
Someday I'll go back to listening to his later Pitt books, but not yet.
Although Mr. Cussler's writing has gotten better in each book, ICEBURG is my favorite.
When it first came out, I was in my late teens and had just been to Disneyland's Pirates of the Carribean ride, so I guess that is what made me identify with the book first, but I also love the ending where Pitt exacts revenge (or Justice?) on Rondheim for all of the people he hurt or killed.
I know it's not necessarily the right thing to have done, but I as the reader wanted Pitt to do it, and he did!I have read this book and all of Clive Cussler's books many times.
I have also enjoyed going through Mr. Cussler's Classic Car Museum in Colorado.
The plot of this thriller was good, I was engaged and curious to find out what happened.
It was a nice blend of action and mystery.
The downfall of this book was the way Cussler depicted woman.
I am not sure if this was intentional or not, but the woman in his book were appalling.
They are weak, unintelligent, and all around pathetic.
The way the men treated the woman in the book was also appalling, there was no respect.
Dirk himself is a misogynist but I can write that off as part of his character, but does every other male in the book need to follow suit?
It's important to remember that this book was written in the 70's and was the second Dirk Pitt novel to be published, so the attitudes are slightly jarring to a modern audience and the series is still in its infancy.That aside, I found this to be a entertaining read.
Dirk Pitt does a fine job as he stumbles through numerous near death adventures. An enjoyable read.
I never get tired of reading books by Clive Cuddler, no matter how long it's been since I've read it,
A rare element called Celtinium 279 is used in the probe to scan the sea bed, as the element is unstable it caused fire and the whole ship was incinerated, the heat caused the ship to be imbedded in the iceberg.On way to Reykjavik, a black jet shoots NUMA's helicopter, both Dr.Hunnewell and Dirk Pitt was badly injured, but the black jet is shot and drowned.
In the party Pitt was also introduced to Kirsti's boyfriend and the villain of the story Oskar Rondheim, Pitt puts a gayish act.
Pitt finds the sunken black jet, to his astonishment the serial numbers are erased but he finds one mechanic's marking.
The villain, the hero, and the supporting cast all freely throw out slurs throughout the book.The interesting thing, though, was (view spoiler)[the reveal about Fyrie being transgendered.
Put in comparison to the rest of Pitt's attitudes towards women and the entire cast's attitudes towards homosexuals, this was almost ahead of modern sentiments and actually helped save my opinion about this book.
(hide spoiler)]Based on that, along with other reviewer's assertions that you can see Cussler's writing move towards more modern behaviour toward women, I'll keep at the series.Like I said above, this one's story is much weaker than books 1 or 2 to top it all off.
Iceberg is the 3rd in Clive Cussler's "Dirk Pitt" adventures.
Major Dirk Pitt, a senior figure in N.U.M.A (National Underwater and Marine Agency), finds himself in the polar seas of Iceland, investigating the strange reappearance of a once-lost vessel.
But before the investigation makes any real headway, Pitt finds himself shot out of the sky by a mysterious black jet, and loses a key N.U.M.A scientist as a result.
But these adventures are worth sticking with for the long-term, and seeing the character and narrative grow as a result is well-worth the trip back in time.
Buz dağının sadece görünen kısmı bu.
Tamam buz dağının görünmeyen kısmı vardır biliyoruz ama bu görünmeyen kısımın onun "içi" olabileceği aklımıza gelmezdi.
Clive amca bize bunu gösteriyor işte.
İçini yani.
Bir gemi.Clive Cussler varsa tabi ki köşede bir yerlerde bir gemi muhakkak vardır.
Sonra bir gizem.
Buz dağının içinde keşfedilen bir gemi bizi farklı maceralara sürüklüyor.
Önceki kitaplarında daha güzel bir kurgu var karşımızda.
Cussler'ın üçüncü Dirk Pitt romanı.
Serinin yani.
Clive Cussler'ın kaleminin giderek sağlamlaştığını görüyoruz artık.
Olaylar tam bitti diyorsunuz bakıyorsunuz bir kaç sayfa daha kalmış.
Sonra bir "hmmm" diyorsunuz.
Demek Clive amca sonuna bir şeyler eklemiş.
This early Cussler novel is certainly light on real story.
This is lazy writing, and fortunately Cussler gets better as the Dirk Pitt novels progress.
The characters are also somewhat shallow, which adds to the overall simplicity of the writing.
The final issue is that there are some leaps of faith required in terms of character's behaviours throughout the book.
However, the intrigue and Pitt's (somewhat raw) depiction will keep most readers enrapt.
It's an easy and pleasant enough filler, recommended for Cussler completists or if you have nothing better to read.
