https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/909335.The_French_Powder_Mystery
The store is run by its owner, who has a luxurious apartment on the top floor, accessible only by those with one of five special keys.On this particular day, a woman goes to set up a new window display.
Like the other Ellery Queen mystery I've read, this book is a great lot of fun and relatively unimportant in terms of any deep philosophical meaning.
And from these kinds of observations, observations about evidence and personality, he comes to conclusions.Reading this book was like taking a trip into a foreign land: America in the 1920's.
Ellery Queen (really a pseudonym for a writing team of two cousins) belongs right below John Dickson Carr and certainly belongs well within the top tier of pretenders to the Christie throne (for, in my mind, Christie is still matchless).Really, this should come as no surprise.
In a mere 200 lightly typeset pages, she constructs puzzles (fair most of the time) to bamboozle even clever minds.
Don't let that turn you off- I look forward to enjoying the works of the Ellery Queen duo for a long time to come.
Books on a desk, a glass-topped table, a setting for a card game, cigarette stubs in an ashtray, the dead woman's lipstick, the display of shoes in a closet and seemingly innocuous phrases in various witnesses' statements all catch his attention and add to the solution.There are several suspects for the Queens to sift through--employees of the store, Winifred French's first husband, or perhaps even her missing daughter.
Leave it Ellery to sort through the clues and see through the lies and half-truths told by the suspects in order to hand his father the culprit on a silver platter (from French's kitchenware department, perhaps?).An intricately plotted mystery with clues galore.
First time reading anything by Ellery Queen. It certainly doesn't approach the level of the Golden Age mystery greats, but is cleverly plotted enough. None of the characters ever graduated beyond the level of cardboard cutouts, but it's a plot-centric whodunit with plenty of clues, alibis, timetables and such—an entertaining enough mental puzzle to while away the time on a dull rainy afternoon.
You have to be an avid reader of the golden age of mystery to appreciate these early Ellery Queen books.
I'll say no more about the story since it is too involved for a synopsis but it moves right along with new clues popping up all over the place.
Very enjoyable for the fan of the old mystery and it is fun to read the first of the books of a character who would become iconic through the long life of this series.

Another fine deduction crime novel, if slightly dated, from the writing team of Ellery Queen. Lots of characters , lots of Red herrings, with a final conclusion that was both logical and 'obvious' had the reader but followed all the available clues.

Just a friction in the reading experience which denied this fine book a perfect score.
The story ends right where the identity of the murderer is revealed.
But I like it.This is the second Ellery Queen book of my reading.
The murderer for both books aren't colorfully and audaciously painted.
But make no mistake; this story is crafted in a masterful hand.In the timeline of this work of fiction, the unveiling of the criminal takes 60 hours, counting from the murder itself.
I'm happy having read this book and look forward to more from Ellery Queen.
Good plot. The author gives us some key clues late in the story, but to be fair, he gives them all well before the denouement.Richard Queen comes across as being thick and officious. Throws his weight about. His adoration of his son Ellery, and letting him into official investigations so openly (as if he were a police officer) is unconvincing.
In fact, the way things were presented, I remembered there was one character who had specifically mentioned the key clue earlier in the novel, but I didn’t take the time to go back and find out which one that was before reading to the end.I was a bit upset that one aspect of the solution was kept secret until after this point in the book, with the reveal of details that apparently were available to Ellery, but not to the reader.
In junior high school I read one of the Ellery Queen short stories in a paperback collection of murder mysteries.
In books like The French Powder Mystery life is portrayed as it is lived, not as one wants to show it as being lived which is what you get from serious literary fiction.The French Powder Mystery pulled me into the story through the methodical, almost obsessive attention to the presentation of facts that are used to define the actions of the characters.
The manner in which the mystery is solved may seem theatrical but you cannot distance the writing from the time frame in which the book was written.
and Ellery Queen saves the day (and the reputation of the blundering police).This book started so-so for me.
I will definitely go on with the series now.A very nice touch is that in all Ellery Queen mysteries (well, all I've read so far) there comes a point before the big revelation scene where the reader is addressed: The reader now has all the clues and hints in their hands, knows everything that the detectives know and could, theoretically, solve the crime without reading further.There are no mysterious last clues produced in triumph as by slight of hand that the reader hadn't known about before, as it was often done in other mysteries.All in all a very enjoyable read!
I was enjoying the book, up until the final disclosure...
this disclosure took entirely TOO long and I lost all interest!!
It got to the point that I no longer cared who the murderer was!!Not a good way for a murder mystery to go...
~ My mother, God rest her, read everything by 'Ellery Queen' in her day and I thought that I would enjoy it as much.
So far I've read two of their novels and I'm not quite impressed.
I will give it another try as I'm told their works got better, but this did NOT endear their writing to me.
The cousins still seem to be struggling to find their voice with this second mystery. Too many characters muddle up our interest and attention, and the resolution again offends our contemporary sensibilities, making this less enjoyable than it should be. Some of the nonsensical frame layers from the first book are gone, which is a nice relief, but still some of the casual racial comments and attitudes mar the overall tone of the work for us today. Plus, it's slow and boring at times, and Ellery does too much "a-ha! I'll tell you later" silliness. It was okay, sure.
A solid mystery that is more or less on par with the average Miss Marple or Poirot whodunnit. Most memorable for the unusual and very meta 'Challenge to the Reader': "I state without reservation that the reader is at this stage in the recounting of The French Powder Mystery fully cognizant of all the facts pertinent to the discovery of the criminal; and that a sufficiently diligent study of what has gone before should educe a clear understanding of what is to come."
I'd say it's a great better than the first book the Roman Hat Mystery, both in the design and the deduction, as well as intensity of the story. Had a wonderful time reading this piece, though I took the bait and missed the true murderer myself. Maybe it's not considered creative by the criteria of this century it's nevertheless a great brain exercise.
The most difficult part of this book is the tendency of the author to make the words more flowery than necessary. I know it was the fashion of the time to create words from two more readily understandable words, but that can get annoying. Regarding the plot it is well conceived. The clues keep one guessing right up to the end.
The political correctness corresponds, of course, to the era in which these books were written. But putting that aside, the mystery aspect is gripping and the opportunity to solve the crime yourself sets these books apart.
I can't help but wish for a Readers' Digest condensation of the Ellery Queen mysteries. It's as if they worked out the plot, and kept padding and padding. Do you think that they were getting paid by the page?They should have studied Hemingway rather than Dickens. More is not always more.
I'm so spoiled by Dorothy Sayers. Not that this wasn't light fun, but it was too easy to deduce who dunnit, and the casual racism was more than a little irritating, and all of the women were insipid, absent, or dead.
Fan del sarcasmo detectivesco de Ellery
There are thirty-five Ellery Queen novels.
The French Powder Mystery is one of the very early ones.
I read several of the later ones first and enjoyed them.
It is as if they were copying the British mystery fiction popular at that time in the early work.
At some point they must have found their own voice and the books improved.
The Ellery Queen books were a collaboration of Daniel Nathan, professionally known as Frederic Dannay (October 20, 1905 – September 3, 1982), and Emanuel Benjamin Lepofsky, professionally known as Manfred Bennington Lee (January 11, 1905 – April 3, 1971), American cousins from Brooklyn, New York.
The Queens work a department store mystery. Just another fun time with the pair and the Inspector's team. Glad to revisit these 30 years later and enjoying the audio on my walks.
3.5 stars
I can scarcely believe people used to read Ellery Queen mysteries for pleasure and not (as now) as historical curiosities--as examples of the bygone "classical" fair-play detective novel, essentially a very long "word problem" in which the clueing is especially scrupulous (even compared with the average English cozy), with every fact needed to deduce the identity of the murderer placed squarely before the reader.But you've got to really, really love puzzles to take pleasure from novels this unreadable: turgid narration* that inclines to bombast, stilted and unbelievable dialogue (e.g.
A bed that can be folded into a wall is a major new development in interior decorating, a novelty that deserves its own shop window in Manhattan's most luxurious department store, and which will ultimately become a crime scene.
The mystery itself is a typical Ellery Queen puzzler : the wife of a department store magnate is found dead, crushed in a fold-up bed in the display window of her husband's store.
Why did the dead woman have not her own lipstick, but that of her daughter, in her purse?The other thing that I like in these books is the obvious affection between Commissioner Queen of the Manhattan Police Department, and his son.
I've heard great things, and because I love classic Old Time Radio detective mystery shows, I heard EQ books follow the same sort of format, just in literary form.
Finally, after a good sweep of the crime scenes and plenty of interviews and alibis, the murderer is called out.
To me this book had lots of pros, but also plenty of cons.The pros: I liked the "reader challenge" that Ellery presents.
For this reason I rated this book 3 stars instead of 4 because I seriously consider the ending a big flaw.In conclusion, I overall enjoyed "The French Powder Mystery" and can't wait to take on another Ellery Queen adventure soon!!
We've got suspects galore, from family to the Board of Directors, and plenty of clues, both planted and actual.
We have all the information, even though I didn't make the connections before the grand revelation, even when Queen steps out of the story and directly encourages the reader to make his/her guess.But-The French Powder Mystery is not quite what I'm looking for in a good story.
Also, I didn't buy the whole reason behind the crime, even though I liked how all the clues worked together, it still didn't feel real.
Maybe that's in part because I'm looking at it from 2013 and not 1930.
What I enjoyed? The mystery was written with the clues clearly given so that the reader is able to try and work it out for themselves.
