https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/748862.Simple_Abundance
of course this book is cheesy.
of course it's a cliche.
and of course i wasn't the target audience for it as a 19-year-old college student back in 1998, and i'm still not the target audience 10 years later.
but i credit this book for helping me weather a particularly difficult depressive episode in the first half of '98 and come out of it transformed--not into someone new, but into my authentic self--something i'd spent most of my adolescence and the first half of college trying to hide.
i love this book.
This book changed my life for the better, plain and simple, when it was first published. I read it again every few years to refresh the lessons learned.
I have a lot of found memories about this book. It is a book about self, featuring a short essay to read each day. It is set up in calendar format and wonderfully written to inspire peace in one's life. A book I will never part with!
Not only does the author, Sarah ban Breathnach, give me something positive to reach for but I usually learn little tid-bits of interesting, historical trivia.
If I go a few days and forget to read this book, after I pick it up and begin again, I am "back on top" of things and looking at the world from a much sweeter perspective.
I wrote little notes to myself about this book, one in 1998, one in 2001 and the last one in 2006 says, "A ray of light in a hard world.
I truly love this book.
When I initially read the description for "Simple Abundance" it really seemed like something I would love: how to improve your life one day at a time through introspection and appreciation of what you already have.
The overarching principles by which the reader is meant to live their life are so numerous and complex that it seems impossible for a person to actually remember them all even if they followed the book day-by-day.
Even if I was someone who intended to follow this book not just every day for a year but every day for however many years it took to really live and breathe its philosophy, there's just no way "Simple Abundance" lives up to its name.
I loved this book when I first read it in 1996.
I loved the ideas for appreciating each season, and how it encouraged you to live your authentic life.
I did a lot of the exercises in it too, like creating a book with all pictures in it that you like to learn your true style.
But I loved everything else this book suggests.
The book has the directions, and I tried it back in the day, and got lots of compliments, but then didn't do it again until 2008 for my stepdaughter's Easter basket.
A gift from my mom - I've been reading this book off and on for a few years. I really have come to like it lately - it helps me keep my head on straight. The only "exercise" I've actually done from the book is a gratitude journal. It's amazing how much it helps to write down three things I'm grateful for before I go to bed, especially on those horrible, terrible, no-good days.
This book looked and sounded like a good devotional. Unfortunately, after 3 days of reading it, I decided not to. The author is Catholic and rather than referring to God she keeps using the word Spirit (and not in reference to the Holy Spirit). I almost felt like it was written from a New Age viewpoint.
These little essays are just plain feel-good stuff and inspirations for every occasion I can think of.
Sarah Ban Breathnach has written 366 short essays--one for each day of the year, not forgetting Feb. 29--on a variety of inspirational topics.
Breathnach stresses the need for a daily gratitude journal in which one must write down each day at least five things in her life for which she is grateful.
Another of my favorites is "Meditation for Bad Girls" (Nov. 22), which is hilarious.
Real life is what you make of it." Breathnach ends this short piece by saying, "You can be bad, you can be good.
The problem was that I was buried so deep in the mundane that I didn’t make this a priority until several years later.
;) To stay on track, I kept it by my dining room table so that every day at breakfast, I could read - and ponder - the day’s passage.
While this book didn’t adequately address my deeper spiritual needs, it definitely brought me to the present a little bit each day and helped me to readjust my attitude about cooking, laundry, cleaning, etc.

January 19: Many of us unconsciously create dramas in our minds, expecting the worst from a situation only to have our expectations become a self-fulfilling prophecy. Inadvertently, we become authors of our own misfortune. And so we struggle from day to day, from crisis to crisis, bruised and battered by circumstances without realizing that  we always have a choice.
Many were inspirational, some thought provoking, and others were validating.This one sums it all up nicely, I think"Authentic success is having time enough to pursue personal pursuits that give you pleasure, time enough to make the loving gestures for your family you long to do, time enough to care for your home, tend your garden, nurture your soul.
It's making a difference in other lives and believing that if you can do that for just one person each day, through a smile, a shared laugh, a caress, a kind word, or a helping hand, blessed are you among women.Authentic success is not just money in the bank but a contented heart and peace of mind.
My go to book I read year after year. Love this book which reminds me to center myself thru gratitude, simplicity, order, harmony, beauty and joy.
In fact, she loves the book so much, that she went to a workshop from Sarah Breathnach in California one year.I tried to read this book when I was a teenager but couldn't relate to it at the time so I dropped it.
As I read this book, I felt like I basically grew up with simple abundance - so a lot of the ideas and principles in the book were not new to me.
I would give this book 5 stars for the overall message of simple abundance since it's basically the motto of my life.
Morning after Morning I am grateful for the ubiquitous way that the words never lose the ability to start each day for me on such a feeling of Positive Energy and I can take that with me through creativity and "I WILL NOT BE DEFEATED!!!" I should begin that book that has been my life from the start and I am always being told "You should write a book !"I thank you for such a gift, ,I thank my wonderful mother for giving me that pink, hardcover book, I thank all the people who made it possible for me to just tap a little screen and there...
I put this book down for months, picked it up again and started reading at the beginning of the month I was in.
I picked it up again around Christmastime and started reading it for the day it was.
I am going to do my very best to read each entry every day and implement something that I learn from the book each day.
The only difference is when I picked up the book, I would read for that day.
For some reason, when I read for that day, it was something that applied for the time.
An absolutely gorgeous book of daily meditations of thankfulness.
You just read a meditation a day.
Written by Sarah Ban Breathnach ( pronounced Branack) it has this homey old fashioned sort of feel because the idea for the book sprang from a commission she had been given by a magazine to write an article about Victorian ideas of home management.
I would say go ahead and read it on a daily basis.
Let the wise thoughts of your ancestors touch your soul briefly and you will be surprised how much you get out of this book.
I read this book almost daily and it has completely revamped the way I think about taking care of myself. It's also not overwhelming because you can implement small beautiful practices into your life daily or monthly...there are lots of ideas and suggestions and it really does help a woman learn to love and nurture herself so she can love and nurture those around her better. It has changed my life to start reading this book. I can't say enough about it. If you are a woman-- I think you should read it.
This was a very useful book of ideas and suggestions to improve your life and develop your spirituality. I believe Breathnach is one of the first authors I read to suggest living your life from a perspective of gratitude. When I use her suggestions to begin and end my day expressing gratitude and listing all those things for which I am and should be grateful, my life emanates from a much calmer and more joyful place, that's for sure!
A new perennial favorite. A book written in 1995 twenty years ahead of it's time. "I wanted to write a book that would show me how to reconcile my deepest spiritual, authentic, and creative longings with often-overwhelming and conflicting commitments." Yes. This.I savored every page of this book through 2014 and plan to start anew reading in 2015.
Amazing book. I love this book and read and re-read it! It is a daybook that has great ideas and perspective on living a full and authentic life by discovering who you really are and what makes you happy, what makes you different...what makes you you! Can't recommend it enough!
I read this when I was going through a hard time coping with life's challenges. It was refreshing and opened my eyes to the simple things in life that can bring us joy. I am surrounded by these joys. I just need to just stop and take the time to notice.
I've been reading this on and off again with my mother for YEARS. I haven't read every entry yet, but I'm getting close! If you're searching for positivity and a way to express gratitude, you'll want to read and share this book. It really is beautiful. :)
I registered a book at BookCrossing.com!http://www.BookCrossing.com/journal/12689415
Sarah Ban Breathnach's best in my opinion -- one which I use as reference rather than "gospel" however and which is dipped into at will.
A good friend gave me this book and I should apply its principles a bit more than I do. Perhaps it's time to read it again!
I registered a book at BookCrossing.com!http://www.BookCrossing.com/journal/11356410
If you like self-help books that are extremely well-written and you are a woman of means this is your book.
Syrupy, sticky, pasty, childish and no actual practical tips to have the supposed simple abundance.
