https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/8964.Jesus_Freaks
Not the Bible, but once you pray before you read it, an emotion overtakes you at the realization that this is it.
I rarely feel chills or get the sudden urge to do something outrageous for God, but this book pushed me on.
This book made me want nothing more that to pick up my heavy cross, and follow Jesus for the rest of my life.
I would read stories in my class.
not want this book to end.
And I can only pray with all of my soul...that my name will be the next in that book.
I am just like Peter.
A book about people being tortured and killed for their faith isn’t really my cup of tea.
This book isn’t an easy read.
The book consists of stories of men and women all over the world who refused to forsake Jesus, even in the face of death.
As one of the authors, Toby McKeehan writes about the Martyrs "these are the people who are changing our world by refusing to lay aside their relationship with Jesus for the mere sake of being accepted by the crowd" (Mckeehan 6).
Not only is this book an inspiring read, but it is also informative about the religious oppression and revolutions going on around the world.
I wish that the value of speaking the truth did not rest in such uncritical acceptance of words on pieces of paper that have been altered, mistranslated, and reinterpreted over thousands of years.There is only one story from the book I found remotely redeeming in this respect.
(view spoiler)[That is the story of a man who was killed for translating the New Testament of the Bible to English.
This story appeals to my interest in free and open exchange of information.
(hide spoiler)]That said, this book uses strong appeals to ethos and emotion to sway the reader.
As we go through the Bible I like to pick up various devotions that are Bible based, but inspirational or fun to read afterward, as we consider the Word being applied where the rubber meets the road.One section a night takes about a 100 nights.
So many times we think dying sacrificing our lives for the gospel sake is the ultimate.
But Ohhh to be a living sacrifice for a lifetime (Romans 12:1-2) What a call that is.
So pick up this book and may it encourage you to be in Thee Book living for Jesus.
Foxe's book is a genuine classic that should be required reading.
This is a very good book that deals with the death of (mostly) modern day Christians.
I will warn you that if you read this book you will feel small.
Most of today's Christian complain about the price of gas and milk and talk about what great tribulation they go through at work because the boss expects them to do their jobs.
If all Christians had that kind of faith the world would have already been converted.
Every one ought to check this book out, it is an easy read but it speaks volumes to the heart.
This book will challenge your Christian walk.
At the time in my life I read it, I was going through a really difficult, post-adolescent time and it woke me up.
Whatever I was going through, I wasn't a martyr, I just had a rough time.
I could be going through much worse for much less.
It inspired me to be a stronger, better Christian.
It spurred me towards seeking God's calling for my life, and being obedient to answering that calling.
Highly recommend this book to teenagers, college age kids, young adults, middle-age adults, old adults.
Anybody ages 14 and older.
For Christians and Messianic Jews -- eye-opening and faith building. For all others -- just a good way to see how far faith can take a person when it is all they have left.Well written, tugs at the heart strings; I will never forget these stories.
This is a phenomenal book I think all believers should read.
The stories are true,gripping you from page one.
The stories are short but powerful.
The book tells about courageous men and women of all ages who took a stand for Christ from around the world.
The courage these brothers and sisters displayed was nothing short of remarkable.
If you were of the world, the world would love you as its own; but because you are not of the world, but I chose you out of the world, therefore the world hates you" (John 15:18-19) At first I thought this book may be a bit depressing due to the torture/killing of these courageous souls...however it had just the opposite effect.
I'm looking forward to reading the second book soon....
This book is a collection of short (1-2 page) stories, letters, and so on, each providing a glimpse into a life-event of someone who had to make a hard choice to stand for Jesus no matter what.
Reading these stories is meant to inspire and teach us from the examples of others who did it right by hanging on to Jesus and Jesus alone, through even the hardest trial of their lives.
Sure, it's pretty and "cool" looking, but it makes it a real pain to turn pages as you're reading.
Jesus Freaks is a collection of 1-2 page, very short, biographies of Christian martyrs throughout history. For what it is, it's decent. It's certainly not an in-depth look at each person's life; usually each story focuses on the events immediately leading to the person's death. If you are looking to get a broad understanding of Christian martyrdom throughout history without much detail, this is a good read. Many of the older stories are from Foxe's Book of Martyrs. The book is printed in conjunction with Voice of the Martyrs, so it has a tinge of their agenda, too.
¿Estamos viviendo una época de tolerancia?La respuesta es no.Este es mi libro de no ficción favorito. Es una recopilacion de relatos acerca de personas que fueron asesisanadas directamente por sus creencias religiosas, en este caso el cristianismo. Fue impresionante la crudeza en el que está narrado y como hay fechas my actuales, en la llamada época moderna, aún ahora siguen sucediendo tragedias por causas religiosas y este libro te ayuda a sensibilizarte sobre ese tema.
This is a great book for someone new to Christianity, because it tells the stories of some modern-day and older martyrs.
The book presents the stories in little snapshots of the moments when these people stood up for Jesus even in the face of death or torture.
I guess my main complaint is that the stories felt to me like I was missing too much.
I'm sure that it was marketed to 15 year old me and some part of my brain put it down as, "You should probably read this book some day."But don't read it when you're 30 and more cynical than your 15 year old self.That said, stories of people standing up for what they believe in can be encouraging.
What is less encouraging is the attitude that everybody who is not a Christian must be some terrorist, bent on destroying Christianity.
The "Us Vs. Them" attitude of this book turned me away early on.This review is from my blog: http://mrsundquist.blogspot.com/2013/...
Jesus Freaks is a book that describes martyrs and how they came to be classified as such.
The book follows the path of Christian martyrs from the time of Christ up to modern day believers.
The book gives individual stories of those that have been persecuted all over the world.
After reading this book, I have a new found appreciation for my freedom of religion.
I am amazed at how modern day Christians must suffer in other areas of the world in order to practice and share their beliefs.
This book is pretty amazing. Contrary to being depressing, it is actually extremely encouraging, and humbling as well. It really, really opened my eyes to the plight of many Christians worldwide, and I just can't believe that people have gone through this type of thing. One criticism I had was that I think some of the stories belonged more to the realm of Christian legend than historical truth, but most of them weren't like that. Great read, and it really helps to bring you into an awareness of the persecuted church in both ancient and modern times.

A nicely compiled and smartly documented report on the suffering of true Christians around the world..Makes you feel glad,thankful and blessed to have the freedom to worship!!!
Inspirational true stories about people who have stood up for their faith in Christ. I drew motivation from it and it fueled my heart for missions.
Get the kleenex box before you read this book. ALthough your eyes will be filled with tears your heart will forever be changed. I just pray I too can be sucha astrong witness for my Savior.
Most of the stories were very limited in details other than the grotesque torture and executions that these people endured.
I also noticed that some of the stories were made more interesting with details that were most likely made up.
Since the book was written in the 90s, it is very interesting to research these countries to see where they stand now.
I looked up the website for the non-profit to support martyrs and Christians who are persecuted around the world and it looks like they are still going strong.The book does good in showing how faith can withstand a great deal of pain by focusing on the Kingdom of Heaven.
This book was written by the Christian Rock band-DC Talk and the organization-The Voice of the Martyrs.
Although this book came out in 1999 it is still very relevant for today.
It is basically a copilation of stories about Christians being martyred for their faith.
Though every century since Christ died there are stories listed in this book of those believers that lost their lives for their faith in Christ.
A very convicting book in the least.
Meaning I love the texture of the book.
This is not a short book.
The stories are what captivate the reader to keep reading.
I believe this book was meant to be put in my reading shelf.
This book I felt was very educational it had opened my eyes to see that Christianity is not as strong as it should be and many people have and are still dying for the love of Jesus Christ.
It started getting hard to read when I got towards the end.
I feel that I understand Christianity a lot from the way these people die and endure all the torture without a blink of an eye.
My husband thinks the way the book was manufactured was beautiful.
Most end with a sad explanation of how they were executed, but some have miraculous survival stories.One example of the good ending is a guy sent to be boiled alive in oil but God protected him then the king had him burned but he still managed to survive the flames.
One with a bad ending is this guy who was arrested for his belief in Jesus Christ and was sentenced to be burned at the steak and was tied to it and was burned alive and the whole time until completely died he prayed.
I've read through this book three times in my life.
The first as a young Baptist, when it first came out, and it was mind blowing and chilling to me.
What would I do if faced with these sorts of choices?
That's not a question a young person should be asking themselves.
The other two times I've read through the book, I've done so as a Catholic, and taken note of how biased some of the examples can be to appeal to an entirely Evangelical perspective, twisting some stories, if not outright seeming to change them.
Wow! Eye opening, inspiring, horrifying, challenging, this is a must read for first-world Christians. Teenagers in particular would benefit from these stories as they enter adulthood. Seriously raises the bar for all of us! It's quite disturbing to the status quo and I needed that!(I'll admit a bit of hesitation coming from dc Talk and the title is rather irreverent. Incredible content though!)
A compilation of testimonies of believers that have stood firm in Jesus through and during persecution. So many times persecution happens and we never hear about it. I really like seeing all the different areas of the world in which persecution happened, and all the times Jesus stood with the one in persecution. This is a great assistance in seeing a global picture of the Church that is often ignored.
So the content is really good! The stories are very interesting and attention catching. It's just set up in a monotonous way. There is no flow so it's difficult to finish because you start to get tired of reading the stories. Which says a lot because the stories individually are very awe inspiring and amazing to read. I just wish the format had been different.
It was wonderful reading this over the Easter season and being reminded of the sacrifices believers around the world have made since the beginning of Christianity. It made me grateful once again for the religious freedom I have.
My first encounter with the reality of Christian martyrdom. This book was the gateway to other stories and accounts such as Foxe's Book of Martyrs and the Voice of the Martyrs ministries. Just sad they had to brand it with this terrible band to sell it.
More than anything, I think this book was a good education for me that not everyone, even in today's world, has the freedom to worship (or not) as they please. Many of the martyrs spoken of in this book lost their lives during my lifetime.
