https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/172691.Conspiracy_in_Death
Love, Love, Love...This one is one of my favorite from the series so far, I think. Eve really got put through the wringer in this one and it was cool to see Roarke and all her friends close ranks around her.
Every book in the In Death series is a five star read for me but this one is something special.
So much raw emotion - Eve and I blubbered through a large part of it!
Roarke comes through as the world's number one guy being everything Eve needs exactly when she needs it.
And then there are all of Eve's friends and colleagues standing up for her when she is down.
This book brings together everything that is enjoyable in this series, a great story, effective police work, strong characters, a delightful romance, funny dialogue and many really emotional moments.
Aww, finally some answers as to why the delicious MY book-boyfriend, Roarke, loves Eve so much.  "Can I watch while you hit him? You know how it excites me to see you pound on someone."....He knew there was nothing, nothing more arousing than the surrender of a strong woman, that melted-bone yielding of a tough body....."When we get home," he began as they walked down to street level, "you can... reprimand me.""Keep your mind off sex.""Why? It's so happy there." Oh, yeah. He likes strong women.
Aww, finally some answers as to why the delicious MY book-boyfriend, Roarke, loves Eve so much.
You know how it excites me to see you pound on someone."....He knew there was nothing, nothing more arousing than the surrender of a strong woman, that melted-bone yielding of a tough body....."When we get home," he began as they walked down to street level, "you can...
That is one helluva superpower.The crime in this book has to do with illegal organ harvesting.
And, although there were a little too many feelings in this book for me, I still really loved the new dimensions that they brought to the characters.
My only complaint about these books is that we don't get enough Eve and Roarke time. I know, I know she is bogged down in the investigations. Saying that, when they do get together, things are pretty steamy.  The bodies are piling up. In her research Eve uncovers similar crimes in several cities that were dropped under mysterious circumstances, Dallas knows she's facing a killer cruel enough to prey on the weakest in society and powerful enough to conspire an extensive coverup. To complicate mat
My only complaint about these books is that we don't get enough Eve and Roarke time.
In her research Eve uncovers similar crimes in several cities that were dropped under mysterious circumstances, Dallas knows she's facing a killer cruel enough to prey on the weakest in society and powerful enough to conspire an extensive coverup.
The image of it was etched on her mind like acid on glass."Man" Peabody closed her eyes ...
I love Eve but I love Peabody too.
But someone is not happy with Eve's progress with the investigations and she needs to be stopped.
"What I have with you, darling Eve, I never thought to have with anyone.
I shudder to think what kind of searches my computer would take if it worked with voice commands like Eve's does.Reread June 2018 — In this book we meet my favorite doctor in literature, Louis DeMato. Someone is stealing organs from homeless people, and killing them while doing it.  Eve deals with the rich and powerful while standing up for the poor and homeless.
Words will only fail me but still I'll try to express my feelings. 😊 This book, no actually this series are brilliant. I'm seriously in love Roarke & Eve. Their love is just so beautiful. ❤❤❤I highly recommend this series to you! Trust me, you have to meet with Roarke. 😍 He moved through the dark, quiet as a shadow. The bed shifted slightly as he sat beside her, found her hand. "Do you want the light?""No." Her voice felt rusty, but she didn't bother to clear it. "No, I don't want anything.
😊 This book, no actually this series are brilliant.
I'm seriously in love Roarke & Eve. Their love is just so beautiful.
❤❤❤I highly recommend this series to you!
Trust me, you have to meet with Roarke.
He moved through the dark, quiet as a shadow.
The bed shifted slightly as he sat beside her, found her hand.
"Do you want the light?""No." Her voice felt rusty, but she didn't bother to clear it.
"No, I don't want anything.
You didn't have to stay here, in the dark.""Did you think I'd let you wake alone?" He brought her hand to his lips.
Suspense 5 stars / Romance 4.5 starsDamn, it was intense! What could I add to my previous statement, that I love and admire Eve’s mind? This woman is Goddess! Romance. For the 1st time since starting this series, I liked Roarke. I could feel his love and devotion and I was deeply touched how he cared for his wife. Eve had one of the most painful experiences in her career. God, I can’t stop to admire this woman. She was strong even when she was broken. Respect!
This is one of the best ones yet from this series. I was a mess reading this, I love Eve and to see her, not as the superwoman she always is but as a person was one of the finer points of reading this. Roarke was mag, as always.
I am so annoyed with myself that I cannot seem to find the time to write a proper review for a book that I LOVED.
I'm so disorganized and feel as though all I am doing is chasing my tail.
UGHHHThis series continues to be amazing.
The characters grow and change in ways I hadn't expected which only makes the story telling that much better.
In this one it was things that happened to Eve that broke my heart.
And as much as Roarke has that magic touch, those perfect words, it wasn't something that he could fix for her.
❤ Roarke❤ Eve❤ Peabody❤ McNab❤ Feeney❤ Mira❤ Galahad
I love the In Death series but this story is special. You see Eve Dallas as never before. It's gut wrenching, emotional and embodies everything that sets this series apart. This is my #1 favorite of all the books.
A very emotional installment to the series.Eve tries to act all tough but her opponent this time is a cunning one and manages to almost bring her to her knees.
It is amazing how after just one year with Roarke, she changed so much that depending upon him isn't such a burden for her any more.
And depend she does.
And maybe the mysteries aren't all great every time-even though this one was very complicated and had me guessing till the end-the characters and excellent writing make up for it.
Sorry fans of the In Death series. After more than a handful, the stories become somewhat repetitive and predictable. J.D. Robb's Conspiracy in Death is still an entertaining read. But I can't imagine myself reading 40-plus books with these same characters and revolving around its basic formula. 3 stars.
I figure I would always give these books a five star rating and here's my reasoning:* for Roarke. Cause, duh!* for Eve. She's a badass.* because Eve&Roarke should be #marriagegoals.* for Peabody. Girl cracks me up all the time.* for all the weird and shitty ways people invent for killing each other in these books.Over and out
Working outside the system, Eve still manages to close the case.This is one of my very favorite of the series strongly because of the middle part of the book when Eve gets suspended.
In the previous 7 books, Robb has painstakingly drawn a portrait of Eve as a cop.
It is so sad to see such a kick ass character like Eve brought so low and made to feel so lost.
I picture him looking like George Clooney.3)We see more of Baxter, the womanizing, fun loving cop who is smarter than he seems.
I am so invested in these characters, and this was the book that almost broke Eve, and the way that is written?
Holy.
Just holy mother of gut punchers.
Every character comes to bat in this one for Eve and that alone had me squeezing the life out of the book.
This has to be one of the most interesting and developed love stories in modern romance right now.
This book never stopped.
Books like this coming up 8 books into a series makes me realize just how possible it is to continue to tell a story this well.
Huge 5 StarsMy favorite in the series thus far. I loved this book.
The twist here is that it's not Roarke who's a potential suspect like it's been in almost all the other books, it's EVE. I actually liked that part. Though I'm no longer surprised when Roarke owns literally everything. I dunno, I may take a break from this series though. It's not the most dynamic for me right now.
She’s brilliant and Conspiracy in Death, the eight book in the In Death series is great!Eve Dallas is simply the best at what she does.
With a few heated words and early threats, things seem to be close to its boiling point rather than simmering down.But despite the bad blood between Eve and Bowers, Dallas has more important things to do, like figure out why a sleeper was found dead under a bench with his heart removed.
It’s Lieutenant Eve Dallas’s job to find out!Conspiracy in Death showcases Eve at some of her most vulnerable moments.
Number eight in J D Robb's In Death series and they keep getting better and better!In this episode Eve uncovers a killer bumping of street people and collecting body parts.
Not that that has ever stopped Eve or her trusty sidekick, hunky billionaire husband Roarke.
As usual lots of action, hot sex and some humour in the interactions between Eve and Roarke's butler Somerset as well as the delightful Peabody and McNab the detective who lusts after her.
Eve is also starting to recover some of her painful early childhood memories and learning to face up to them.
Read May 28, 2014Well I have to say there was a lot going on in this book. There were times that you just held your breathe because you couldn't believe what was going to happen but then as you read on an the intensity grows and you have to continue because you want to know who and why. As always Roarke, the great husband that he is, always there to protect and comfort Eve through everything and then there is her friends who don't give up and make sure that the truth comes out.Re-read Nov. 16, 2016
I really, really like this book - right up there as one of my favourites!When doctors play God!We meet Troy Trueheart (what a cutie) and Louise Dimatto - love those characters. Nothing too wonky about the book except the time frame for Louise getting injured - I can overlook that.Two thumbs up - great read!
It looks like this series can't get less than 5 stars from me. It was interesting reading Eve reactions about events in this book. Also relationshio between her and Roake. I love watching them married and doing stuf all married couples do. Well, maybe not all couple but they are becoming more and more lovely with every book.
*swoon* I never get tired of the way he loves Eve and it's always shot to the heart when it hits her with what Roarke means to her.
I love how even though Roarke worries about Eve, he never tries to stop her from doing what she needs to, from being who & what she is.
The bad guy was a little harder to pin down because things were coming from all sides but as usual, the good guys win in the end.
(view spoiler)[If I'd gotten a look at Summerset's reaction to both Eve and Roarke coming home with ruined coats, LOL!
The In Death series is remarkable for the originality of it's plots, the remarkable view of the future, the kickass heroine and the most devastating hero of all time.
I read these books just for Roarke.
His status as one of the dregs of society just doesn't matter to Eve. He was murdered and Eve is going to find out why and who and put them away.
Roarke is there to pick up the pieces and then to kick her butt.
Then, he acts as her partner as together they solve these murders.
We have a killer who has a God complex, high level of medical knowledge and surgical skill. Let the who done it begin.I cried in this installment. I just felt bad for Eve and what she had to go through for awhile. Thank God for her friends and of course, Roarke for his unwavering love and support. I may sound like a broken record but who cares? Roarke is a perfect male speciman. Yum
My favorite of the series so far. I love suspense the most when the main characters personal history play such an important role. I loved all the insight into Eve.
Street people are turning up dead with their organs missing. Why would anyone want damaged organs? Someone wants them so badly they’re willing to go head on against Eve Dallas. Bad move.
It was, quite simply, fabulous.Third Read: Lt. Eve Dallas and her assistant Delia Peabody, are called to a crime scene by Officer Ellen Bowers, and Officer Troy Trueheart.
One night, going home to her apartment, still obsessing, Bowers is attacked and killed.Second Read: Lt. Eve Dallas and her assistant Delia Peabody, are called to a crime scene by Officer Ellen Bowers, and Officer Troy Trueheart.
.Lt. Eve Dallas and her assistant Delia Peabody, are called to a crime scene by Officer Ellen Bowers, and Officer Troy Trueheart.
It was as wonderful as it was devastating.Roarke takes a backseat through much of the beginning sections of the book, but as soon as Eve's world starts to crumble we got a heavy focus on them together.
We've seen their love for each other before, but in this book it shines especially bright.
I have always loved Eve's relationship with Feeney, but he impressed me anew here.
It's wonderful to see the loyalty and love that Eve is surrounded by.
I've been hoping we'd hear about him again.Although I was happy with everything in the book, I was secretly hoping that Eve wouldn't accept her badge back right away.
Seeing her so fragile and brought so low was a difficult thing, but it made it all the more satisfying when she made it through the sadness and moved onto anger and resolve to solve her case no matter what.And right there with her you had Roarke.
Steadfast, supportive, yet still ready to give her the kick in the ass she needed to get her out of her funk and stir that motivation to fight back.I also loved seeing the way Eve's friends rallied behind her while all this was going on as well.So far this series shows no signs of slowing down for me.
