https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/845628.The_Book_of_Ptath
This is a short novel, even for A.E. van Vogt works.The description on the book is pulp-fiction standard, and the story is relatively simple with a few characters. It is a good quick read.The rating might be not so good(3.41 when I write this review), but it is not overrated by zealous fans. When you read this short novel you can expect a light story for killing time.I didn't commit to praise this is the best book of my life, but when we were together, I had a good time.
I have been a fan of A.E. van Vogt ever since my teens, when Empire of the Atom was one of my favorite books. Although he has been consistently good across his works, The Book of Ptath is weak. How can one write a book about a duel between two goddesses without leaving the earthly plain? To complicate matters, Van Vogt's hero is both a human from World War Two, and a god in his own right. Sounds confsing? It is.
A.E. van Vogt is one of my favorite SF authors, and I'm sure I've read stories that were based around the same technological concept—that of "god power", a way of channeling the emotions of large numbers of people into a force captured by a few "gods"—though I'm pretty sure I haven't read this actual book.
On Ptath's side is a greatly de-powered goddess trapped in a dungeon with limited projection/possession powers.There are two things about van Vogt, generally: The first is that he wastes no time or words in telling his story.
The setting is the earth 200 million years in the future where everything has changed but nothing is described in detail.
I get it, it was written in a pre-Tolkien era but still...Also, although written by an author of the sci-fi golden age, the book is barely sci-fi.
It's low fantasy.It did make me want to finish the "Dying Earth" series though.
But the latter writes so much better and immersive stories.Still not giving up on Van Vogt.
I will deifinetly read the pure old school sci-fi stories of his.
Small books they are anyway.

In The Book of Ptath, a WWII veteran (an Allied “tanker”) cohabits the body chosen by the god Ptath while in The Universe Maker (originally, The Shadow Men as presented in the pulp magazine Startling Stories), the protagonist is a Korean War vet.
The Universe Maker epitomizes the Van Vogt “Ur-plot” in that all religious figures are corrupt and self-serving (much like the goddess in The Book of Ptath).
Personally, I don’t buy such a simplistic idea, but at least Van Vogt turned it into a fast-moving, albeit choppy story.
Intriga este una destul de simpla, insa implicatiile si personajele folosite au dimensiuni, daca le-as putea numi asa, grandioase.Ne aflam la peste 200 de milioane de ani in viitorul omenirii, viitor in care care Zeita Ineznia, avida de putere, il readuce la viata in urma unei reincarnari pe zeul suprem al Gonwonlane-ului, Ptath.
Stat este populat acum, printre altele, si de o specie de pasari zburatoare, asemanatoare cu pteranodonul preistoric (sau cel putin asa mi le-am imaginat eu din descrierile autorului si din ce apare pe coperta), screerii, cu un rol foarte important in actiunea viitoare a romanului.Ptath si-a consolidat puterea zeiasca printr-o serie de vraji speciale, despre care la momentul de fata nu prea are habar, constiinta sa fiind amnezica si personajul in care se reincarneaza neputand sa descifreze mai nimic din misterele lumii in care a ajuns.
This was a re-read for me. The Book of Ptath was one of the first fantasy books I ever read and no wonder I fell in love with the genre. The beauty of the book is not in the story, which is bare to the bones at best, but in the way the author sets a scene by building an exotic world around you all within a few masterful strokes of sentences. Suffice to say that the far-future land of Gonwolane has always been alive in a corner of my mind after more than 15 years.
"Van Vogt's work has a raw power that has never been equalled in science fiction." - Damon KnightLike many of Van Vogt's novels this first appeared in shorter form in the early forties.
Set some two hundred million years in the future, it is a variation on the superhuman hero theme that Van Vogt employed in many of his novels (see Gilbert Gosseyn in The World of Null-A for one of the best examples).
This is a sort of truly fantastic science fiction that Van Vogt exemplified and I enjoyed during my college reading escapes in my Van Vogt period.
An American soldier fighting in Germany in 1944 finds himself thrust into the world of the future, 200,000,000 years in the future, to be exact.
He also finds he is sharing his mind with the great god Ptath as well as getting caught up in a great global war against a goddess who seeks total control of humanity in that future.
I want to add it's not one of his better books, but I like a story where someone is thrown into the future ( or past).
I enjoyed this pulp story of a god brought into human form in the far future, who has to fight to regain his power from the evil goddess who seeks to overthrow him.Van Vogt can tell a story well and this is an excellent example of it. From the early frustration of the protagonist being manipulated, while seeing why it seems to be the logical thing for him at the time to his gaining knowledge and then the final battle. Rip-roaring stuff.
I read short stories by A. E. Van Vogt when I was in my teens and, remembering how entertaining and clever they were, sought and purchased a novel by him (The Book of Ptath). I enjoyed it, certainly - but it didn't quite grab me the way that his short stories did. (This might have more to do with my advancing age rather than the skills of the author!)
Vaig intentar localitzar el llibre i vaig descobrir que estava descatalogat d'una editorial de llibres Pulp.Genial vaig pensar ...
Genial penso.En si l'obra té la qualitat de les produccions en série de les novel·les Pulp nordamericanes dels cinquanta però és divertit llegir-la i pensar els teus ídols (Stephen King, Dan simmons, George RR Martin i altres) llegint de nens aquests llibres i entenen que ja els plantava la llavor de la fantasía.Destacable la línea argumental grandilocuent de grans escenaris i xifres temporals estratosfèriques ...
un concepte que sorprén en novel·les d'aquest tipus.
It starts off well enough, then accelerates into some kind of frenetic battle between the reincarnated Ptath and the goddess Ineznia, with the rules of the game changing every chapter. Too ridiculous to truly like, but too audacious to throw away dismissively.
Difficile et passionnant..
Poteri antichi, cerimonie nascoste, viaggi nel tempo e trasmigrazioni. Tutto bene insomma.
Una lettura solo parzialmente interessante, a tratti rovinata da alcuni nonsense e iperboli numeriche.Nel complesso si lascia leggere, ma non avvince per nulla.
un mondo nel quale, grazie a una geniale applicazione scientifica del più antico e insopprimibile dei bisogni umani, quello della preghiera e della fede, sarà possibile convogliare le energie mentali dei fedeli, attraverso il prodigioso strumento dei bastoni da preghiera, su determinate persone...
E il più grande di tutti gli dei di questa nuova religione scientifica è certamente Ptath di Gonwonlane, il Tre Volte Grande Ptath, l'uomo che si fuse con la razza milioni di anni fa, per vivere molte esistenze umane in modo da riacquistare l'umanità perduta.
La leggenda dice che un giorno Ptath ritornerà a Gonwonlane, per riacquistare il suo antico ruolo di preminenza nelle cose umane...
'The Book of Ptath' proved to be an enervating affair from an author that I usually find most entertaining.
Frankly, the absurdly contrived battle of body-swapping wills between the recently reincarnated god Ptath and his terribly arch, arch nemesis princess Ineznia amounted to very little in the way of a fun read.
As an aside, my brain actively disliked having to read the idiotic word 'Ptath' so frequently.
Not a good book.
'The Book of Ptath' is much ado about nothing.
157: 'Religion, you see, is not in its roots adoration of a god or a goddess.
Religion is fear.
The only reason I read this book was due to the characters introduced in John C.
Wright's sequel to Van Vogt's Null-A series.
Wright's book the NULL-A Continuum introduces Ptath and Inenzia as two manifestations of key characters in his book.
Note that the Book of Ptath was written by Van Vogt before NULL-A.
The book of Ptath was disjointed, and left much to be desired.
It was a short novel and so deeper backgrounds for the few characters was not emphasized.
it recommend this book, but it was nice to see that for a nov written in the 1940's the female characters were strong and determined.
To be honest, I thought that its really fast pace made it a bit hard to keep track of the characters' motivations (there's a plot twist every five pages, so before you're done processing one development you have to deal with another) and I did want to know more about the setting but I'd much rather read a book with a complicated plot that moves a bit too quickly than one with a simple plot that moves really slowly with a ton of detail about the world.
I think it could have been better if the three main characters were more developed.
The description did not excite me so much, but I put this book on my to-read list because of the author. I had read a couple of A.E. van Vogt books and, at minimum, liked them. Fortunately, I found the book more interesting and enjoyable than I expected from the description. There is not much else, beyond the description to say, without actually just writing out the story. Will likely not be a favorite for anyone, but worth reading.
What a book, as Van Vogt used to write.A god, Ptath, has gone merging with mankind for two hundred million years and is now returning.L'oone and Iznezia, his wives are waiting for him, the latter to kill him and become the sole governor of Earth. And what an Earth, with three nations, of tens of billion people!Van Vogt almost at its best, good for three hours of reading, you will not regret it. Only he could have dreamt of such a story of grandeur and pulled it off.
Overall, I regret to say I'm a bit disappointed. I wanted so much more, and did not get much. The cover art is the best part of the story. It has a nice sentence or two at the ending that ties up the book, but so much of it is so confusing.
Unusual novel by van Vogt in that it blurs the boundary between Science Fiction and Fantasy. As usual though it's densely plotted, dazzlingly inventive, wildly improbable and the characterisation is very weak.
It's a fantasy book, with no intent on sci-fi.Interesting read and introduces slightly a concept that I would like to read in other books.The idea that man could ascend to gods with enough power, time and technology.
N/A
Pretty cool!Different perspective
1981 grade C+Listed in my files as just Ptathaka 200,000,000 AD
I enjoyed the book but the ending seemed anti-climatic.
