https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/891812.Gentle_Rogue
Hyuck, hyuck!I went into this knowing that it was an (almost) 20 year old romance about pirates, so I was prepared to give it some wiggle room for a lot of things.
You're welcome, Goodreads!Ok, ok.So what was wrong with Gentle Rogue, you ask?Well, more than likely the problem stems from it being an (almost) 20 year old romance about pirates.
Except she wasn't as much fun to watch.In short, they were both ridiculous, and I didn't like either of them.Then there was the gross age gap.
No.Moreover, I didn’t like that she got all hot and bothered over a man whom she knew nothing about whenever he was around.
I have to say that Georgina definitely wasn’t my kind of heroine in every way.For me, this woman came across more like a dimwit than a naïf.
I didn’t like her whatsoever.Accordingly, it’s plain and clear that I disliked both James and Georgina.
They’re one of the worst couples I’ve ever read!Well, just when I thought this book couldn’t get any worse, it could!
I liked none of them.Apparently, there was nothing pleasant about this book for me.
Re-read 7/18/10 -- Man... I think I even liked this audiobook better the second time around. Pirrrrrrrratical fun. ;)4.5/5 stars. This was my first novel by Johanna Lindsey, though I read a short-story of hers in an anthology before reading this book. As I listened to the audiobook, I was trying to determine why I was enjoying the book so much, despite numerous bodice-ripper type of clichés. I made myself a list to justify both my enjoyment and distaste.Reasons I enjoyed this book? My love of hi
I made myself a list to justify both my enjoyment and distaste.Reasons I enjoyed this book?	My love of historical romance stories where the heroine has über-protective brothers who act crazy out of love for their sister.
In this book, Georgina has 5 older brothers :) Fisticuffs ensue.
:)	I like characters in books that can raise their eyebrow at something another character says.
James had a very sexy way of raising his eyebrow in the book and not saying anything aloud, but saying everything with his expression.	Did I mention I like to picture men with earrings and pirate-shirts?
Meh. Sexist themes. Dominant male. Virgin female who was pretty much manipulated into having sex with the sorry excuse of a love interest, and then thought nothing of it. BLAH.(view spoiler)[Not even good fap material. (hide spoiler)]
Doing so meant leaving the five older brothers who raised her, as well as her home in America, but she’ll be damned if she’d let a little thing like war, time, and distance get in between her and her plans for the future.And find him she does.
Hurt and more than a little red-faced, all Georgie wants to do now is get out of Jolly ol’ dreadful England- but the only immediate way back to America is to work her way home incognito as a cabin boy!One problem.
James Malory, rogue, rake, and pirate.
You know he's something special when you meet him in Love Only Once, and I was eager to read his book.
I tell you, James Malory is a guy who goes after what he wants.
Actually Jeremy looks a lot like his brother Anthony.
I love his raunchy nature, but how he is actually very gentle and loving with George.The love scenes in this book were singe-worthy back in the day.
But I feel the attraction and chemistry between James and George make this book sizzle for me.
This review was originally posted on Addicted To Romance    Summary   Georgina Anderson, has been on the hunt for the fiancee that disappeared during the war with Britain. Its been four years since he was taken by their Navy, and never heard a word from him. After her brother Thomas refuses to go in search for him, Georgina along with a trusted family friend and protector "Mac" go to England on their own to search for her missing fiancee Malcolm. But what she finds is a fiancee that married a En
James might be one of my all time favorite characters of the whole Malory clan.
She and Mac do get into an altercation with James Malory and his brother in Tender Rebel but then Georgie finds out where Malcolm is and learns the painful truth.
But then they land in the West Indies, and Georgie leaves James without a word, to go to her brothers ship before it leaves for the America's.
I was laughing and smiling all the way through the book and I realized why this is one of my all time favorites and had a blast reading it again especially since its been years.
I don't know how many times I've read this book over the years, but each time I do, I still giggle over it. James is definitely my favorite Malory, along with Anthony.
Aprovechando que no me apetecía mucho leer a la Carr para el Rita de este mes, he optado por reencontrarme con Los Malory de la Lindsey.
En especial con James que, junto a Anthony, es mi favorito de esta serie.Amable y tirano es un libro genial, muy divertido y lleno de situaciones que han hecho una delicia mis ratos lectores.Georgie es una protagonista de las que me gustan, con carácter y genio, sin una pizca de tonta.
Y bueno, James, con su humor, su sinvergonzonería y cara dura, es el alma de este libro.Me alegra mucho terminar mi Reto Rita con una lectura como esta, de las que te dejan con una sonrisa bobalicona en la boca.
James nos deja mareadas. La reseña en nuestro blog :) https://alacamaconunlibro.blogspot.co...
Really, it was.But, I've heard that it was a slow-burn romance about this girl that has to dress as a boy in order to travel to her home in a pirate ship, and ends up falling in love with the captain.
My main problem with this book was that the ship plot was too short and after a week aboard she and the captain start a relationship (so, not a slow-burn).
The rest of the book centers in the dynamics between the protagonist and her five brothers who discover what happened on the ship, and don't want her to be with the captain.
She thought that Captain James Malory didn’t know who she was but James knew all right.
James has vowed he will never marry and Georgie knows that their time together will end as soon as they dock.
They force James and Georgie to marry but they give James a hard time, get him beaten up in the process and even try to get him hanged.
James had such a hard time admitting he loved Georgie.
It wasn’t until he finally admitted that she couldn’t leave because he LOVED her that Georgie’s brothers finally let them be!
(I'm doing the Running Man thanks to all this delicious 90s goodness!) This book had everything fabulous in early romance books without any of the crap (the rapey-rape).
Georgie is a sassy ass who pretends to be a cabin boy on his ship.
Man, plot doesn't matter.
What matters is that James is the most perfectly awful hero ever.
So much love/hate for his pompous ass.
And Georgie brought her A-Game, took none of his shit, and kicked ass.
It's been a long time since a book took me this far outside my head-space so that I could just read and enjoy.
¡Me encanta James! Bruto, con mucho carácter pero con sentimientos profundos que tampoco le cuesta mucho reconocer. Ella también, como le planta cara a cualquiera que se le ponga delante. Me hubiese gustado un poco más de acción, ya que al ser un antiguo pirata, no le vendría mal alguna batalla entre barcos, pero aún así me ha gustado mucho.
Ήταν τόσο αναθεματισμένα ωραίο...Χριστέ μου! Αγαπώ όλους τους Μάλορι...Αγαπώ όλους τους Άντερσον...Αγαπώ και τον Νίκολας Ίντεν...Είναι όλοι τους τόσο παθιασμένοι, τόσο ξεροκέφαλοι, τόσο θερμοκέφαλοι, αλλά και τόσο σέξι...Δε θες να σταματήσεις να διαβάζεις τις περιπέτειες τους (Οι οποίες δε σταματούν ποτέ για κανέναν τους)Θέλω και τα άλλα βιβλία... Και διόπτρα ας μην ξεχνιόμαστε έχεις ξεχάσει κάτι... Την ιστορία του Άντονι...
My fav from the series.
2.5 stars rounding up to 3 stars.Title of the book- Gentle Rouge...
Rouge I can understand but how the hero was a gentle rouge I seriously didn't get it.
The Heroine wasn't any better.
She was stupid and childish but stubborn.
And her brothers, they were even more stupid.
They forced the hero and heroine to get married but refused to live them together.
The hero behaved almost like a good husband.
My first book of this Author and I have to admit that Johanna Lindsey's writing is good.
Hope her next book will be better.
Realmente son 4/4'5 pero, qué narices, hay que ser generosa cuando, a pesar de los momentos más flojos, te lo pasas tan bien leyendo un libro como me lo he pasado yo con Amable y tirano.
Me ha faltado más tensión sexual pero entiendo que no está el libro para esas cosas cuando luego hay que dar más vueltas que el baúl de la Piquer.
Vamos, que me lo he pasado genial con el libro pero sobre todo, he disfrutado con los momentos de James con Anthony, divertidísimos, no me cansaba de leerlos.
Lo mejor sin duda.En fin, que James Malory a mis enaguas!!!
A fun, easy read with a "classic historical romance" feel. Loved the banter between Georgie and James. I wanted George to smack him several times throughout the story - that's my kind of romantic hero. Not a fan of the cover art, however.
For a soon to be Buddy Read with my friend and comrade-in-arms Jennifer.  Selected simply because of the cover in hopes that this will reach the same heights of craziness as Just by looking at the cover, I have so many questions!- Will they do it doggy style?- Is that her dress trapped under his belt? Or his own shirt?- What is her right hand doing? With a slit (of the dress) that high...could it be she's taking care of her own business?
Ήρθε η ώρα να γνωρίσουμε τη δυναμική Τζορτζίνα Άντερσον, η οποία μεταμφιέζεται σε αγόρι και στριμώχνεται στο πλοίο Μέιντεν Ανν αναζητώντας τον χαμένο της μνηστήρα.
Βέβαια, αντί για εκείνον, θα συναντήσει τον Τζέιμς Μάλορι, έναν γοητευτικό άντρα, πρώην πειρατή και το ρεμάλι της οικογένειάς του, που καμιά γυναίκα δεν του έχει αντισταθεί, αλλά και που καμιά δεν έχει βάλει εκείνος στην καρδιά του.
Από την άλλη, η Τζορτζίνα, αν και δυναμική, φαντάζει κάπως πιο γήινη και προσιτή σε σχέση με τις ηρωίδες των προηγούμενων βιβλίων της σειράς, κάτι που θα βάλω στα συν του εν λόγω βιβλίου, αφού θεωρώ πως η μέση αναγνώστρια θα μπορέσει να ταυτιστεί πιο έντονα μαζί της.
3.5 stars
I was a bit disheartened because for a Duillo-Fabio-Lindsey cover, save for Georgina's lovely rose-trimmed gown, that cover was ugly with it drab green tones!
For me those two books are the high points in the Malory-Anderson series, although Gentle Rogue is by far the best.And yes, the title of the book is true, for hard-muscled ex-pirate James Malory is a unrepentant rogue, through and through, taking advantage of the heroine Georgina and disgracing her in front of her brothers so that he's forced to wed her.
This book was a bit disappointing.
The characters were all very interesting.
The abundance of characters though, was a bit overwhelming at times.
For being a romance, this one lacked just that.
The focus was less on James and Georgina and more on their siblings and interactions.
I know this is a third of a "series" so there was familiarity between characters and certain story lines.
More time was spent on past or future books.
I wish we would have seen a deeper or more meaningful connection between James and Georgina.
Overall, it was a funny read but just lacking in other areas.
Serinin en bir sevdiğim kitabı oldu Kaçak Yolcu.Anthony'nin hikayesi beni biraz hayal kırıklığına uğratsa da James'in hikaye tam ona yaraşır şekildeydi. Bu kitapta seriye ismini vere diğer aile Andersonlar ile tanıştık.Onlarda Malory kardeşler kadar harikaydı. <3Gönül isterdi ki hepsini hikayesini okuyabilelim ama sadece 3 kardeşin hikayesi var onlardan da. *-*
To καλυτερο μεχρι στιγμης απο την σειρα της οικογενειας Μαλορυ ..Ο Τζειμς ειναι ακριβως το ειδος του ηρωα που μου αρεσει ...η ηρωιδα πιο απτη απο τις προηγουμενες ..Μεχρι και την τελευταια λεξη το απολαυσα ..συνεχιζω στο 4ο...
Eh. James was an arrogant ass whom I just couldn't get behind. I usually really like Lindsey's heroes. Normally when they're arrogant they still possess a certain charm and are oh, so smitten with their heroines. But I never felt James was completely smitten or in love with Georgina (just with himself), which translated into less romance and fun.
Georgina Anderson datang ke inggris tanpa sepengetahuan kakak2nya untuk mencari tunangannya yg dipaksa menjadi tentara inggris sejak 6 tahun yg lalu & menemukan bahwa malcom sudah menikah & mempunyai anak.marah & jengkel georgina yg ditemani oleh mac menyamar sebagai laki2 & ikut kapal apapun yg akan bertolak ke amerika.georgina menyamar sebagai cabin boy maiden anne, kapal milik james mallory.james mallory, viscount of ryding, putera ke 3 keluarga mallory, mantan bajak laut yg sekali lihat georgina yg berpakaian laki2 langsung tahu bahwa georgina perempuan.tentu saja lha wong james & georgina pernah bentrok disebuah penginapan saat george & mac beristirahat didatangi oleh james & anthony yg sedang mencari sepupu rosylin, istri baru anthony.james langsung ingin memiliki george namun hanya sbg wanita simpanan.
This was the cutest book I have read in a very long while (re-reads not withstanding), and the best Malory book so far, and to tell the truth its way better than the previous two.Georgina was a funny character and immensely amusing to read, one of the reasons that endeared the Malory family to me is that they were a big brood, and an addition to another brood was a big welcome, I loved her relationship with her brother and with Mac, it reminded me of Regina from the first book.
