https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/431071.Gods_and_Heroes_of_Ancient_Greece
The books included in this comparative evaluation are:Bulfinch's Mythology (Modern Library Paperback Edition, 2004)Mythology by Edith Hamilton (originally published in 1942; Back Bay Books edition of 1998)The Greek Myths by Robert Graves (Penguin Books combined edition, 1992)Gods and Heroes of Ancient Greece by Gustav Schwab (Pantheon Books, copyright 1946)Don't Know Much About Mythology by Kenneth C.
More details about the comparison can be found in the introduction to the first review: Bulfinch evaluation  Gods and Heroes of Ancient Greece is a translation of Gustav Schwab's Sagen des Klassischen Altertums, a book that has been the canonical source for Greek legends for several generations of Germans.
I loved Gustav Schwab's Die schönsten Sagen des klassischen Altertums, his exquisite and extensive compilation of Greek mythology tales in German translation as a child (when my father read them aloud to my brother, my sister and me), and still greatly enjoy them today (having recently downloaded and reread them on my Kindle).
My very first book, the one that changed my life. This is the reason way i studyied ancient Greek and Latin for 4 years.You know how you often get asked a silly question like ''If you had one book to take on a deserted island'', well, i'd choose this one. I don't even travel without it- it's my childhoof blanket, my teddy bear. And one day, if i have children, they will too fall asleep listening to the stories from Olimpus, and about Trojan war.
I read it as kid, 11 years, old, i can remember how i was devouring it with big enthusiasm. While my classmates chosed to talk about theire hobbies as presentation in front of the class, i talked about the"Ten heroic deeds of Heracless". Was big fun for me.
I found this book at my grandma's house, so naturally beacuse I love greek mythology I had to read it.It's a re-telling of greek myths. It's not my favorite but it was fun. I'm a bit disappointed because in macedonian, it does not cointain all the myths. It mostly covers the story of Oedipus and Theseus, and few short others.
Eines meiner größten Leseprojekte dieses Jahres ist mit Sicherheit diese Mythen-Zusammenfassung von Gustav Schwab in der hübschen Aufmachung von Gondrom gewesen.
Zu lesen gibt es neben den bekanntesten Götter- und Heldenmythen auch (und vor allem) zusammenfassende und doch textnahe Prosaerzählungen der epischen Dichtungen Ilias und Odyssee Homers und Vergils Aeneis.
Wer beginnen möchte, sich mit dem klassisch altertümlichen Mythos auseinanderzusetzen, erhält hier einen kompakten, leicht bekömmlichen (wenn auch leicht antiquierten) Einstieg in die großen Sagenkreise und Dichtungen der Antike.Dazu gefällt mir das gut ausgearbeitete Götter- und Heldenregister am Schluss, das dem Buch zusätzlich noch eine Referenzfunktion gibt.
Für die 10€, die ich dafür bezahlt habe, also ein lohnenswertes Schnäppchen.
Za sve one koji žele osvježiti svoje znanje o grčkim bogovima, herojima i njihovim djelima, ali svakako i za one koji se po prvi put susreću s antičkom mitologijom. Knjiga pisana još u 19. stoljeću, ali i dalje puna duha i jednostavno čitljiva, ali što je i najbitnije, koncizna, sa svim potrebnim informacijama sažetim u dirljive priče koje ne prikazuju samo grčka vjerovanja i mitove, nego i duh vremena u kojem su ove priče nastajale.
Ova knjiga (knjige- mislim da ih je tri ili četiri) je zaslužna za moju ljubav prema svemu što ima veze sa mitovima, legendama i božanstvima. U vreme kada sam imala osam -devet godina, to je bilo neuporedivo nešto najzanimljivije što sam imala priliku pročitati.
You can pick up this book and always find a new adventure to read.
"Gods and Heroes" consists of many collected stories of the great legends of Greek Mythology.
Prior to reading this book I would say that I had a pretty decent amount of background knowledge pertaining to Greek Mythology.
Europa was a Phoenician princess and was fancied by Zeus.
You will have to read the story to find out.
I would recommend this book to anyone who enjoyed adventure and mythology.
I also enjoyed this book because you can take your time to enjoy the individual stories.
Ich kann mich errinnern, wie wir in der Schule damals davon lesen mussten.Damals wollte ich wie gewohnt eine Kurzfassung aus dem Internet heraus googeln.Aber dann las ich die ersten vier fünf Seiten, und ich hatte danach eine neue Leidenschaft entdeckt-Griechische Sagen.Was mir aber auch ebenfalls aufgefallen war, ist dass einige Geschichten im Buch verblüffende Ähnlichkeiten mit einigen Geschichten aus dem Koran haben.Vielleicht war das auch ein Grund dafür, warum ich alles leidenschaftlich durchlas.Für gewöhnlich stelle ich hier keine Bücher , die wir in der Schule durchgenommen hatten, aber dieses Buch hat es verdient.
i really enjoyed this, idk i felt that the writing kept me interested and ive learnt a lot about greek mythology and heroes.It has taken me a while to get through this and there are... a lot of stories, i didn't read them all but a good portion, and i've taken it day by day but i loved it.
Great book!! It has 3 sections: miscellaneus gods and heroes stories, the Troy War and Odysseus. I would have put 5 stars to this book but the war theme in part 2 just wasn't for me. The author captures the stories in a very easy and enjoyable way to read.
These stories are interesting as fuck.
"Gods and Heroes is part of the Pantheon series which I found through The Norse Myths by Kevin Crossley-Holland.
I definitely intend to read more in the series since they cover myths and folktales from around the globe, but I will make sure to look up their page counts before buying because I did not realize how large Gods and Heroes was since the book of Norse myths was only around 300 pages.
Filled with tales of heroism, ritual sacrifice, and tragedy, Gods and Heroes: Myths and Epics of Ancient Greece is a necessity for any fan of Greek mythology.
Pantheon has always done a wonderful job of publishing comprehensive and engaging volumes with their series of folklore works and Schwab's work carries on the tradition perfectly.There's not much I really can say considering the stories represented here are age-old and known throughout countless generations.
Rather I'll praise the thorough job done in compiling all the stories.
There's no need to jump from book to book anymore when studying the different tales or history making it wonderful for a reference as well as entertainment.
The language it's presented in isn't stuffy like so many anthologies of mythology tend to be making a classic subject very approachable.
He disfrutado mucho de la mitología griega. Este libro me ha dejado un buen regustillo y creo que pronto me atreveré a leer los grandes clásicos.
The very first book I've read in my life. This book is the reason I've been reading whole my life. So grateful to my mother.
A wise woman once said: The Odysee? It's my current Daily Soap. One episode a day then falling asleep.
On the inside front page of my copy of this book, I have just rediscovered the following inscription:Fur Daithi Mac Giolla tSeanainfur gute Leistungen in der deutschen Sprachemit den besten WuenschenDr. Karl-Gustav GeroldKultur-Attache der Deutschen BotschaftDublin, 2.
The book was a handsome prize (though my German wasn't actually good enough to read it for another five years, when I spent a year in Berlin).
Die Einführung des Autors besteht aus einer kurzen Zusammenfassung der wichtigsten Gottheiten, die in diesen Sagen erwähnt werden – in ihrer griechischen und römischen Ausgabe.Während man sich durch die ganzen Heldensagen und Mythen liest, kann man sich oftmals mit der eingefügten Karte orientieren und sich so auch geografischen Überblick über die zahlreichen Heldenreisen verschaffen.Da die Masse an Namen (teils auch dieselben) nicht einfach zu merken ist, wurden den einzelnen Sagen vom Autor oft Zusammenfassungen über den aktuellen Charakter vorangestellt, wenn diese nicht in direktem Zusammenhang mit der vorhergehenden Sage stehen.
So ist der Bezug zum großen Ganzen immer hergestellt und man kann nichts aus den Augen verlieren.Der Erzählstil des 150-Jahre-alten Werks wurde von Burkhard Heiland aufgefrischt und so entstanden flüssig zu lesende Geschichten, die tiefgründiges Wissen über die alten Gottheiten und Helden vermitteln.
Gedankenverloren steht Mary Jane vor dem Pike Place Fischmarkt, dem wohl weltberühmtesten Fischmarkt der Welt und findet hier die Lösung ihres Problems...Es ist ein tolles Buch und zugleich wirklich ein ungewöhnliches Motivationsbuch.
Die drei Autoren verpacken diese Punkte in eine unglaubliche Geschichte, die dem Leser zahlreiche Beispiele aufzeigt, bis er den Sinn dieser Maximen begreift und versteht und sieht was diese denn tatsächlich bewirken können.Fazit: Jeder sollte dieses Buch gelesen haben, es macht so vieles einfacher und es ist der perfekte Leitfaden für eine Führungskraft, sein Team erfolgreich zu motivieren (und zwar nicht, in dem man seinen Angestellten das Buch vor die Nase klatsch, sondern es Mary Jane gleich macht).
However, I loved reading stories about Hercules, Troy and Odysseus.
They were written in more detail than the previous stories and it was interesting seeing how the characters struggled to achieve their goal.
I loved seeing how the fate of the main character's were determined by their past consequences.
The book is called "Gods and Heroes" so I expect to read interesting stories of the origin of gods or stories that have them as the main focus.
However, the book mainly centered on mortals and gods occasionally appeared rather than being the main focal point of stories.
From fire-stealing Prometheus to scene-stealing Helen of Troy, from Jason and his golden fleece to Oedipus and his mother, Death of Icarus flying too close to the sun as his wings of wax melt and he plummets to the sea, Stories of Hercules, Achilles, Ajax, Menelaus, Agamemnon, King Priam the Trojan king of Troy and their hero Hector, his brother Paris and his wife Helen whom he kidnaps, wandering guile Odysseus and his faithful queen Penelope who waits 20 years for him on Ithaca.
Öncelikle İlya Yayınevinin bu serisini bitirdiğim için bu kitap bana ayrıca güzel geldi. Serinin geneli mitoloji tutkunları ve meraklıları için çok güzel ve geniş bilgiler sunmakta. Ancak genel anlatım biçimleri ve kitaplar arasında aslında bir seriye bağlı olmamaları gibi sebeplerden dolayı okuma heyecanı düşük olarak kalmakta.Yunan Mitolojisi kitaplarına geldiğimizde ise Yunan Mitlerinin neredeyse tümü ile ilgili küçük hikâyeler şeklinde özet bilgilere ulaşılabilmesi açısından iyi bir kaynak olarak düşünebiliriz.Reviewed on December 29, 2014Overall: 2.0/5.0
Alman Halk EfsaneleriİÇİNDEKİLER, İÇİNDEKİ BAŞLIKLAR (HİKAYELER EFSANELER);-SİEGFRİED.-GÜZEL MAGELONE, Beautiful Magelone.-Anne Heinrich, Zavallı Heinrich.-BRİTANYA DÜŞESİ HİRLANDA.-GENOVEVA.-GRİSELDİS, Decamerone.-Robert LE Diable, Şeytan Robert-ŞİLDA' LILAR-HEYMONUN DÖRT ÇOCUĞU-İMPARATOR OKTAVİANUS, Octavianus.-GÜZEL MELUSİNE, BEAUTİFUL MELUSİNE (Şahmaren-ŞEHMERAN HİKAYESİ).-BAVYERA VE AVUSTURYA DÜKÜ ERNST- Ernest, Duke OF Bavaria.-DOKTOR FAUSTUS, Doktor Faustus, ŞEYTANLA SÖZLEŞME.-FORTUNAT VE OĞULLARI, Fortunate Son.
L O N G . . . but can't do any better in laying out the history of the gods and heroes. I have always loved mythology and this book game me its rich history with great attention to detail. It got a little confusing at times however, going back and fourth in the book allowed me to figure out stories and people. Great book if you love mythology like myself and one that you can always go back to to revamp your knowledge.
I picked this up because I get frustrated that my version of Ovid has the Roman names of the Greek Gods, so I use this as reference to the Greek equivalences. My translation of Ovid has much greater detail and on the whole is a much better book, but sometimes, when I don't want to think too much, I reach to this one.
I actually stole this book from my high school in an act of pubescent rebellion. It's been in my book shelf ever since and every once in a while I read for a while.The cruelty of the ancient gods always makes me smile. What's the fun in a kind-hearted, forgiving god?
All the most essential stories of Greek mythology: the Iliad, the Odyssey, the Aeneid, plus several smaller ones, such as Heracles, the Argonauts, and many others, compiled into a large volume. Ideal for a ten-year-old kid to get lost in.
Schwab hat die alten Schinken der Antike neu aufbereitet, so dass ein jeder sie gut lesen kann. Ein Glück, denn die Sagen des Altertums sind die vermutlich wunderbarsten Geschichte, die je produziert wurden.
