https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/7242995-the-war-workers
I chose to read The War-Workers first merely because it was the first title I had not read in the collection.
What I found was a surprisingly complex and rather wonderful novel about a group of female workers on the British Home Front during the First World War. The characters are almost remarkably vivid, and Delafield comments throughout upon the class issue which pervades the novel.
The War-Workers is an unfairly neglected and beautifully written page-turner, which feels just as urgent and important now as I imagine it did upon its publication.
I did chuckle over the marvellously dreadful Mrs Willoughby – who talks incessantly to her spoilt little Pekinese Puff, and the equally dreadful Miss Delmege – whose stubborn devotion to Miss Vivian blinds her to Char’s obvious faults, and who declares anything she doesn’t like or agree with to be strange.Delafield’s ‘The War-Workers’ is centred around a Midlands supply depot run by domineering 29 year old Charmaine Vivian, the only daughter of Lady and Sir Percy Vivian, who struggle to understand her total absorption in her work.
At home Miss Bruce, another blindly devoted woman – once Char’s governess, now her mother’s secretary – fusses happily around Char upon her return each day.
free ebook from Project Gutenberg.Set during World War I England, this story centers on a Lady Vivian, a 29-year-old woman who goes to great lengths to secure admiration for her, uh, selfless devotion to her war work managing a supply depot and other war service organizations in her region.
Though projecting an image of herself as extremely efficient, her refusal to delegate and desire for control creates obstacles for others and a great deal of unnecessary work for herself and staff.
Sometimes I am moved to feel sorry for them, but I admit I enjoyed, in this book, listening to a few characters who were moved to tell a few home truths to Lady Vivian.
I like E.M. Delafield.
I ended up buying a copy on ebay from Germany, a second edition signed by the author!
I wasn't sure I was going to like it at first, but as I got to know the many characters, I was charmed by the relationships and the way they talked, what they found shocking and how they teased one another.
I was rooting for Bossy Pants to get her comeuppance and ultimately found the book satisfying.
I am glad now that I have my own copy.
More a character study than a novel, this second work of E M Delafield's nevertheless keeps the reader's interest.
Written in 1917 about a group of women undertaking administrative war work under the leadership of Charmian Vincent, the only child of the local landed gentry in a provincial town, the story unfolds by the development of the characters of her cast, rather than by events.
The main story is the way in which the war workers of the title begin by idolising Charmian Vincent, and how they come to realise that she is less desrving of sainthood than they once thought.

When I first started reading this I thought I was in for a boring character study, but I was very wrong.
You are given a glimpse into the lives of a group of people for a series of time, leaving them after some events unfold, their lives changed but not drastically so.
This short book was enjoyable to read and the characters are built in a way that you get sucked into their lives.
I found myself rooting for certain people/relationships, which is something that is rare for me to do in a book.
Perhaps a surprise that this is not better known. It is something of a rarity, a book set in the WW1, written in 1917 and focusing on women's war work. I suppose that it is more of a study in character and, as one of Delafield's earlier novels, lacks the sparkle and wot of her later work, it lacks the real punch that would make it better known. Nevertheless for fans of early 20th century fiction, this is a real joy. Very much of its time, relatively sharp and well written. A real joy to read.
Et eligendi facere illo culpa animi pariatur. Accusantium autem ipsa itaque praesentium autem et fuga. Quam odit aliquid magni sint suscipit deserunt.
Wonderful book about the WW1 workers. Realistic, and full of recognizable types of people, some who I have worked with and one who was my boss.
Why?Why didn't I stop reading after the first chapter? This book focused on a smug, egomaniac who seems to do nothing more than spin her wheels.
Great character study and very entertaining.
