https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1523309.The_White_Flag
Not a full five stars, partly because I'd forgotten it until I was poking around through Porter's author list...but oh! The melodrama! This one kept me on the edge of my seat for sure.
Gene Stratton-Porter is one of my mom's favorite authors, but White Flag was a new one for both of us this year. From the first chapter, I was amazed at how dark it was. For a while, I compared it to North and South by Gaskell and enjoyed the levels of insanity and tragedy that only an old book can provide. However, I was deeply disappointed and angered by the last 20 pages. Good on you, GS-P, for getting me in the end!
I thought this book was fantastic. Gene Stratton-Porter grew up just down the road from my Grandfather. According to my great-uncles, some of the characters she really slammed in this book were very obviously modeled after some prominent people in town she had issues with and it was quite a scandal when the book was published, which I think made the book that much more entertaining for me. I agree the ending was over-dramatic but given the time period not that unusual.
A recently-discovered book by a favorite author, it doesn't have the focus on nature of books such as Freckles, Girl of the Limberlost, The Harvester, etc. It's closer to Daughter of the Land in plot.
This is by far the darkest of Gene Stratton-Porter's books I have read.
Published in 1922 she may have read the US public as unlikely to accept the everything turns out well for everybody in some of her earlier work.
With WWI occurring between her earlier, better known, works and this one, the affect of the country may well have shifted.
There is a great deal of death in this book.She is more open about putting the need for God and God's forgiveness in the words of her characters in this book while Limberlost used more symbolism.
At least her characters TRY to hide their evil!
I'm afraid my favorite author of the Limberlost tried her hand at the Horatio Alger-esque morality tale, got lost, and came up with a slightly Gothic melodrama.
This was a compelling read, the subtitle could easily have been "the wages of sin are death" and there was a lot of it. The power of two vindictive persons and the havoc the wreaked over a town was difficult to read. Having said that, Porter populates her story with other endearing persons that made for a read that drew us back again and again.
I gave The White Flag four stars because I love Gene Stratton-Porter's writing.
Otherwise I'd probably give it three, because it's a bit overdone in the tragedy deparment.
Ok, more than a bit.
I think it may have been the author's response to criticism that her books were too much fantasy, goodness and happy endings.
She responded, why not, why not write about goodness and happiness?
But in writing The White Flag she seems to be giving her critics what they wanted, in spades.
There was a certain happiness I was just naturally expecting for our lovable heroine, though, and when it turned to grief I did experience a shock, I must say.
I really have developed a fondness for this long-forgotten popular author of the 20th century. She reminds me of Jane Austen, American-style.5/28 - The thrills, the drama! When I read this aloud I feel like I am in 19th century Middle America via time machine. We are halfway through.6/18 -Finished this yesterday. Edna and I both agreed the ending was "too much." There was some excellent denoument drama but then it went overboard, and when a minor character got conveniently struck by lightening and died, we both groaned.
Reminiscent of the childhood of Jane Eyre this story begins with the tortured childhood of Jason Peters. Star crossed as Catherine and Heathcliff in Wuthering Heights this story follows the story of Jason and Mahala Spellman and the ruin brought on with the corrupting power of money. One of GSP’s darker stories flashes of forgiveness and her reoccurring theme of the benefits of nature and purposeful work still break through.
Did not expect to dins an 85-year-od book in the Yachsts OR library, but did. Very readable for the genre --- despite the overwhelming odds of abject poverty, lack of family, class discrimination, and poor interpersonal communication [!!!], the beautiful heroine and handsome hero find each other on the last page.
All a bit overdone. Didn't end in the way I expected (,nor in the way I wanted).
I really like Girl of the Limberlost, Freckles and even The Harvester, but I didn't like this one. I found it depressing.
READ THIS BK WHEN I WAS A KID MY MOM GOT IT FOR ME HAVE 2 READ IT OVER AGAIN ITS THE 1927 VERSION A REAL OLDIE
Oh my goodness, the melodrama! Someone even gets killed by a lightning strike. Definitely not my favorite Stratton-Porter.
