https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/241879.The_Eye_in_the_Pyramid
Take Douglas Adams, give him an unhealthy interest in conspiracy theory, then spike his water supply with acid, and you have an idea of the trippy deliciousness that is this book. I had expected a relatively serious Illuminati exposing mystery novel, and was happily surprised. Dan Brown fans should steer clear. Well clear.I would like to throw in that I downloaded it from Audible.com, and while you hear background noise every now and then, overall the production is great, and the actors reading it are pretty dang awesome.
There are so many aspects which one could address, so many points of divergence, ideas, philosophies, and influences, but at it's heart, it's a rollicking adventure story that, despite it's many political and social themes, rarely takes itself too seriously.I can certainly say I liked it, but it's hard to say how much.
So minor, in fact, that I find it difficult to take seriously any claim that the lack of such breaks somehow ruined the story.It was a deliberate effect by the authors, meant to impart information realistically and force the reader to take a more active role.
The people who love it say it changed their whole way of thinking.
The people who hate this book say that it's just a bunch of of nostalgic hippie hooey.
These details certainly seem like aspects of some drug-induced late sixties drivel, but don't be mislead, there are some really interesting conspiracy ideas hiding in the boorish, self indulgent text.
For those who have hated the first 20 pages and think it's going to get better around page 70- STOP WHILE YOU'RE AHEAD, read Pynchon's The Crying of Lot 49 or Umberto Eco's Foucault's Pendulum.
There are great conspiracy novels.
All the whacked out political theories and conspiracy theories are on display here - as well as numerology, religion, crypto-archaeology - everything all mixed up into one psychedelic blender for enjoyment of those that get it.I learned much about such varied things as 23 Skidoo, anarchism, the mafia, and discord - all topics i would have not been directly reading otherwise.
Reading this book can give you paranoia.There is is just so much sheer creativity here - you can tell its a work of love.
Most all of the reviews I have read touch on the fact that it is a crap conspiracy novel and complain about the change in perspective without warning.
The reason why I picked up this book was mainly due to Discordianism, of which I am a big fan.
This makes for a great read, to me.
The rapid change in perspectives is one that I've never seen before and has piqued my interest in this book.
I love love love this book so much and cannot wait to finish the second part of the Illuminatus!
My advice to authors everywhere: "do not drop acid while writing a book."

Always fun; always strange; always infuriating, but the gags, slang, and observations are beginning to become dated and forced.
If the reader can put themselves back into a '70s state of mind they'll enjoy the book much more.
Don't expect much by way of plot, the book is more of a picaresque than a traditional novel and, on occasion, the philosophy gets in the way of the story.
The head jumping/point of view is annoying and sloppy but if you don't mind this the book can still be very engaging.
It is no Gravity's Rainbow but Shea & Wilson are a lot more fun.
The best comedy, conspiracy, paranoia romp ever written.
My years of non-fiction reading, political studies, and off-the-beaten path literature have led me to this tale and all of my studies have paid off.
Robert Shea has blown me out of the water with his twists and turns through unreliability of history, satire of conspiracy, the true way of paranoia.
Between the lines, Shea is dissecting every corrupt thought and throw-away rumor you could imagine with the cold logic and wit to make this honestly the best book I've read in years.
The Eye in the Pyramid is a detective story where our detectives don't even know what they are looking for.
The book is filled with references to almost every conspiracy theory in existence and all of them work as plot points.
The story is told in 1st, 2nd and 3rd person and there's never a warning of when that changes are going to happen, it might happen in the middle of a paragraph you don't know!!!The book is still entertaining but I don't think it flows well as novel or a narrative in general.
Wow. Maybe sometime I'll get around to more of a review but, for now, I'll just say that before I read the next parts of this trilogy I have the undeniable urge to read this first all over again and map out every character, place, and literary or philosophical reference. Sigh.
I read it about 15 years ago, but remember nothing about exactly this one (trilogy) and want to compare RAW (exactly other books) to my current state of mind.Let's analyze it.Problems of conspiracy theorists:* furtive fallacy, a belief that significant facts of history are necessarily sinister;* conspiracism, a world view that centrally places conspiracy theories in the unfolding of history, rather than social and economic forces;* fusion paranoia, a promiscuous absorption of fears from any source whatsoever.Example of such delusions.
Mutual idiotism - when other party ("The Order") don't know what they should know and as a consequence it appears like "evil doing".This book reminds me Ulysses, now wonder RAW is big fan of James Joyce.
At one point in this genuinely brilliant book, there is a list of authors who died under mysterious circumstances after revealing some part of a grand secret...
Earlier in the book, Pynchon's "The Crying of Lot 49" is brought up, with the Tristero Postal System hinted at as one possible faction of the Illuminati.
Nevertheless, the book presents an actually realistic view of how a secret society like the Illuminati might work, but then, immediately upon introducing that view, shatters it and proves it wrong.
Impossible to describe -- a hallucination on paper. Lots of sex, graphically described. Lots of drugs, graphically described. Some hippie vibes that will feel archaic to the modern reader.If you want to go down this rabbit hole -- and the Lewis Carroll reference is 100% appropriate -- I do recommend the audiobook. The readers, Ken Campbell and Chris Fairbank, do a great job.
Well, that's a big Did Not Finish.Shit, I only got a few pages in and lost all interest. Obviously I need to at least read the first page or two before I purchase.Sweet jumpin' Jesus, this is bad.
Peor aún, tiene escenas sexuales de lo más obscenas puestas allí solo para vender, estoy seguro, y los escritores - de quienes nunca había oído hablar - tuvieron el supremo mal gusto de introducir figuras políticas verdaderas en ese revoltijo para simular que han descubierto una conspiración auténtica.
Puedes estar seguro de que no perderé el tiempo leyendo semejante porquería, pero tendré lista una crítica perfectamente devastadora para mañana a la mañana”.Vaya sorna la que manejan Anton Wilson & Shea.
Lo que no está nada mal para la primera parte de una trilogía, desde luego.
I finally got round to trying it, by which time I couldn’t remember what to expect from it.At first I thought it was more enjoyable — funnier — than I expected, as well as more formally interesting: it switches between people, places and times from paragraph to paragraph.
And it’s dated: it is a mass of 60s and 70s American political and cultural references, which don’t necessarily mean much to me; and the portrayal of women is pretty dreadful.So it became a bit of a chore by the end, and I certainly didn’t feel inclined to read the other two volumes.
It's slow, it's disjointed, it's basically a couple of authors letting down their hair by making a shitty book to appeal to people like themselves.
If you only care for good prose, you're going to have some problems.
To me, it felt like an inside joke by a bunch of people interested and amused by something that doesn't interest/amuse me - conspiracy theories.
Personally, I feel like conspiracy theories aren't worth my time.
Ergo, this book isn't worth my time.
But if you like wit, snark and amusing yourself at the expense of some particularly well-worn idiocies of the human mind, you'll probably like this book.
This is one of the weirder things I've read. The structure of the novel is follows half a dozen narratives, shifting from one to the other without warning, that all seem to actually be one (or two) narratives. It back up this up with the paranoid stream of consciousness rambling you'd expect from a time-cube conspiracy blog. This first book just sort of stops instead of ending, and if I wasn't reading it as part of the omnibus I'd be a lot more annoyed.
It's got everything! Atlantis! Nuclear Weapons! Fernando Po! Singing Dolphins! Computer programming! Satanism! Rosicrucianism! Rastafarianism! Robert A. Heinlein! William S. Burroughs and Allen Ginserb!The Silmarillion! Read this book and you'll understand how IT ALL FITS TOGETHER! They might call me paranoid, but sanity is merely a state of mind.
The classic uber-conspiracy. If all the conspiracies you had ever heard of were true, then this is what you would have.Dan Brown this isn't. This is not a conventional novel. This is discordian.All Hail Eris!
Hmm.
I don't have a sense of any real insight or world-view underlying Shea's surrealist style, which is what sets him apart from his betters: whereas Eco and Pynchon, for instance, write stories that seem to demand their peculiar idioms, Shea is, at bottom, just writing a hackneyed save-the-world story, dressed up with in a style that he clearly thought was "cool." This is made all the more obvious if one tries to think about the "philosophy" of the book for more than a minute - it's ultimately very thin gruel, the kind of stuff that seems very profound to young folks and people who are high, but which really contributes nothing of substance.
I tried to read this when it first came out.
I just gave it another chance recently and was much more impressed.This book is not to be taken seriously, any more than you would take the conspiracy nuts on the Internet seriously.
We didn't have the Internet when this first came out, so I made the mistake of taking the story at face value when I first read it and as a result I missed the whole point of the thing.The story is hilarious.
I am reading the second book now.
And what a strange trip it was into the Eye. Great satire on conspiracy theories--though some of it does make you wonder.
One of the most interesting ideas of the book, attributed to William S Burroughs, is the 23 enigma and how the number keeps appearing.
I was in Rome at the time when I first read about it in one of the trilogy books.
One day I was listening to a guide who showed us the place where Julius Caesar was stabbed.
She then said he was stabbed 23 times.
Read this book, but be warned their stream of consciousness style of writing is more like Grade V rapids.

A primer of Illuminati lore while also equally satisfying for the initiated.There are drastic shifts in narrative, time, and reality in the story so be prepared to find yourself wondering "what the fuck is going on here?". It all ties itself up pretty well, a feat considering how cooky all the subject matter is. This is the first part of a trilogy and although I wasn't thrilled through a lot of the book the final at had me gripped enough to want to know where it goes next.
A sprawling bit of conspiratorial madness mixed with sex and drugs, trips to Atlantis, the Illuminati, multiple parallel plot threads told in different timelines, dolphins that sing epic poetry, invisible submarines, all mixed with a typical modernistic disregard for structure, coherency, common sense, and decency. I like it.
Overall I enjoyed this book, but I'm not sure if I'll read the other two. What started off as a fast-paced and wacky, psychedelic adventure, degenerated into a series of random events. This is the 70's, hippie, political and conspiracy ridden version of Ready Player One, which is not necessarily a bad thing, but the execution deteriorated noticeably in the latter half.
Hallucinatory conspiracy thriller, lots of sex and drugs, not much rock & roll. I find it very funny. Knowledge of the standard conspiracy theories is helpful, but not essential. You'll just miss some of the jokes.
