https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/12114.The_Oil_Jar_and_Other_Stories
Le catene del verismo.Se ci si avvicina al teatro non si può non passare, e questo il prima possibile, dal genio assoluto che fu Luigi Pirandello.
E' che soprattutto all'interno di questo genere troppo grande è ancora il debito da pagare a Verga e Capuana, troppo stretto è ancora il legame del genio di girgenti con la sua terra per guardare solo avanti.Ma forse è proprio per uesto"stare nel mezzo" che leggere le novelle per un anno (o anche solo questa riuscitissima sintesi) vale la pena.
Prendete un avvocato che cerchi di conciliare le due parti.E nel mezzo lei.La fragile e preziosa giara.Si potrebbe leggere quest'opera da un punto di vista solamente comico: a differenza di altre opere, come i "Sei personaggi in cerca d'autore", non bisogna per forza capire questa novella.
(view spoiler)[ Oppure si posizionano dentro una giara e non riescono poi ad uscire?
(hide spoiler)] Riusciranno i due protagonisti a togliersi le loro maschere oppure si barricheranno dentro di esse finché non scoppieranno?Un'altra tematica e' sicuramente rappresentata dall'attaccamento del padrone agli oggetti.
;Ένας ο Διογένης ο Κυνικός και ένας ο Πιραντέλλο! https://pepperlines.blogspot.gr/2018/...
“A Character’s Tragedy” is another wonderful short story, and my favourite of the lot, where the author Luigi Pirandello details on his creative form whereupon his characters come alive and demand an audience from him.
As a collection, 'The Oil Jar, and Other Stories' is somewhat hit and miss, though it achieves a nice unity through the themes of deception, miscommunication and the reality of individual isolation.In 'A Voice', a wealthy young man has received a diagnosis of glaucoma from several doctors and is condemned to a life of irreversible blindness.
This is a wonderfully constructed and incredibly poignant story that hinges on the kind of tragic misunderstanding that can shatter hearts.The collection closes on another high note, with 'Mrs. Frola and Mr. Ponza, Her Son-in-Law'.
There are some wonderful stories in this collection.
Pirandello deftly closes some of his tales with an unexpected twist, which often is the hallmark of a memorable short story (see , e.g., O.
Henry stories).
Lemons from Sicily was beautiful, as The Little Hut and Mr. Frola and Mrs. Ponza.
I liked the title story, The Oil Jar, but not as much as the best in the collection.
At times our author goes off into musings about reality and unreality that seem a bit dated in the way that a hippie newspaper from the 60s might read, but I suppose that was just the era when he wrote.
Ogni volta che tocca a me accompagnare a scuola il nipotino di nove anni, lui mi chiede: mi racconti una storia? E io gli racconto la Bibbia, l'Iliade, l'Odissea, Boccaccio, Pirandello... Stamattina mi sono cimentata con La giara, scoprendo che non me la ricordavo mica tanto bene, perché i classici sono quei libri che crediamo tutti di sapere a memoria e invece quando li rileggi ci scopri sempre qualcosa di nuovo.In conclusione, devo dire un 'grazie' grande come una casa a Nicolò che mi ha costretto a rileggere questo perfetto meccanismo a orologeria di avarizia, rabbia, ripicca e ironia.
Love the short stories in this book.
Oväntat bra noveller som handlar om galenskap, döden, inbillning och fantasi och gråzonerna mellan sanningen och det inbillade. Mycket trevlig bok!

I haven't read anything else of Pirandello and I was excited to read short stories from an Italian author. The stories were simple but had profound lessons/morals to go along with them. My favorite story was 'The Oil Jar', title story of the book. I thought it had the most well developed characters and the most witty/clever ending. Since I had the Dover edition (cost $1), I am not sure how accurate the translation is compared to another quality publisher. would like to reread some of these stories from another translator and definitely want to read more by Pirandello.
I have a trouble to finished this book. Besides it is classic, these stories getting more and more frustrated. And I also have too many books which probably more interesting in my tbr -list XD****In order to decreased my tbr-pile. And yes...this book is not my taste, even I found some stories were interesting
Enjoyed them thoroughly.These short stories are all surprising and open-ended, leaving the reader to think about them long after the stories are over.The story "Mrs Frola and Mr. Ponza,Her son-in-law,"a quintessential Pirandello story about the relativity of truth and the impossibility of penetrating other people's mind touched me.
This is a very short book of short stories that often resemble folktales. Some of them have a quiet power to them, but often the age of the translation detracts from the vitality of some of the prose. If you're interested in Pirandello it may be better to look for newer translations of his work.
I only read "The Jar."
Sfida di lettura - Febbraio 2018.Spassosi e scorrevoli questi racconti, alcuni di più altri meno, ma permeati di quella bella ironia che caratterizza le opere pirandelliane.
very nice.. I am required to report this today in my class! hehehe
Enjoyed the stories "The Oil Jar", "The Fly", and "Mrs. Frola and Mr. Ponza, Her Son-In-Law".
8/10
You really can't go wrong with a $1.50 Dover edition. Especially when it's Pirandello.
