https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/14280.Runaway
Her uncharitable hypothesis is that Munro is too lazy to do the necessary work; she'd rather just scribble down each idea in short story form and then move on to the next one.
There is a small group of people in the chess world, however, who do something which feels more rewarding to them than playing games; they compose endgame studies.
At first, the arrangement of the pieces appears pointless; but finally the solver realizes that in just this case a knight is worth more than a queen, or the king finds itself miraculously stalemated in the middle of the board, and they see what the composer is doing.A Munro story feels to me rather like a study.
That is preceded and followed by other stories, which are unrelated, except they are all of similar length, have single-word titles, and share the general theme of a Canadian woman running away: from the past, from parents, from partners, from a child, from reality, from religion - and to it.
Two people running away from different things, in different ways, is not necessarily a recipe for a happy ending.
As seen on The ReadventurerLike many readers, I claim quite often that I am not really a fan of short stories, that is, I claim that until I come across the next good short story collection, like Alice Munro's Runaway.
I am starting to believe they do, Canadian fiction tends to evokes feelings of cold, emptiness, spaciousness and loneliness in me.) Munro's stories have the same structure, they are told through a prism of many years past, usually by a mature female narrator, who looks back in time and recollects a specific experience of her youth that changed the whole course of her life.
in 2005 they voted to cast amongst their ranks:alice munro (duchess of ontario)an island run by a spanish writer and a whole team of supercool artist royalty?
here're my theories as to why redonda's royalty, most other writers, and lotsa readers have a huge boner for alice munro:1.
to distinguish themselves must secretly loathe munro for just spinning a yarn filled with more of the good shit than they pack into their stories of monsters-of-mud and comic books and hebraic constables etc.
well, alice munro manages to pull a variation of this with totally ordinary people.
3.5★“In the brief note she left, she had used the word “authentic.” I have always felt the need of a more authentic kind of life.
I know I cannot expect you to understand this.”That was Carla's note to her parents when she ran away with Clark, a no-good drifter, as her stepfather called him.
There were places in town that he would not go into, because of some row.”Carla and Clark run a small riding school with very few clients and horses, and things are tight.
(More of that wonderfully simple, authentic life.) Her influence on unhappy, naive Carla has dramatic repercussions.
Runaway: Stories, Alice MunroRunaway is a book of short stories by Alice Munro.
واقع‌گرایی آثار این بانوی نویسنده، هم‌حسی خوانشگر و منتقد را برمی‌انگیزد، آن‌چنان که پس از هر داستان، حس می‌کند که خود نیز آن رخداد را زیسته است.
Por vezes, Alice Munro cria algum suspense na narrativa, interrompendo-o um pouco mais à frente, deixando o leitor levemente insatisfeito; mas retomando-o mais tarde como um momento culminante da história.A escrita em ”Fugas” nunca desilude, inteligente e metódica, num mundo fictício de Alice Munro, que se vai tornando real e profundo para o leitor, onde quase todas as histórias nos falam sobre o passado e sobre o presente, com inúmeras lacunas e saltos temporais, algumas de meses, outros de mais de quarenta anos; mas que nos envolvem invariavelmente no seu dia-a-dia, nos seus problemas, na sua felicidade e na suas tristezas; algumas jovens mulheres que actuam sobre o desejo de serem felizes, da realização sexual ou romântica, de se libertarem definitivamente do preconceito social, de enveredarem pela mudança e pela estabilidade afectiva.
Here's what Jonathan Franzen said about this book in the NY Times Book Review:Basically, Runaway is so good that I don't want to talk about it here.
The way to do it justice is to read it.But here's what Michiko Kakutani says about it in the NY Times:Instead of assuming the organic, musical form of real life, they feel like self-conscious, overworked tales, relying on awkwardly withheld secrets and O'Henryesque twists to create narrative suspense.
Just read it.
It's good.
Her stories are long (sometimes a bit too) and have a ton of emotional weight, which a lot of these tricky young writers seem to forget to include in the name of fun.
Just good stories.
Munro is a fine crafter of the short story. Each piece here has a careful balance of listing details and conveying emotional depth. I feel like I've read eight novels instead of eight short stories.
Carla is a young woman who eloped with Clark, his former horse-riding teacher, to live her farm dream.
As it usually happens in real life, the dream turns out to be a rather gloomy nightmare.
Clark has fits of moodiness and treats her with despise and coldness.
A strong bond develops between the two women, and for a moment, the reader has high hopes for Carla: will she be resilient enough to escape the claws of a life lived in fear and misery?The story has a mystifying ending that blends a bit of magic with the kind of horror that comes with the realization of the petrifying things we are capable of when trapped in a situation that subjugates us.
The mystery arises from the way that she presents each story--just a few words at the outset, perfectly descriptive, but never overly so.
And then the rest of it is just like (**alert**be prepared for tired metaphors) unwrapping a gift or watching a flower bloom in those sped-up photos.
Except, of course, that these flowers bloom tantalizingly slowly as the story unfolds.There's such a range of human situations that Ms. Munro considers in Runaway, all of them complicated, most painful, some almost humorous, and many of them frustrating.
And yet the way that she presents life makes me feel as if every bit of it is just exactly as it should be.
At the instigation of a neighbor, Carla runs away from him, only to succumb to a fit of anxiety that leads her back to the “ranch” and a life that requires her to overlook his manipulations.The second, third, and fourth stories all feature Juliet at different ages in her life, one dealing with her having struck out on her own and finding a man with whom to throw in her lot, one dealing years later with her return with her young daughter to visit her parents, and the last as a widow dealing the her own abandonment by her daughter.
What else––who else––could ever be so vivid a challenge?”The story is ultimately powerfully sad; we know this woman; she is our neighbor, she cannot do the thing she needs to do."Powers," the eighth and final story in the collection, is divided into five parts, featuring a woman, Nancy, who imagines greatness for herself but ends up marrying a guy, Wilff, she has little affection for.
As a much older woman, Nancy dreams of Tessa and Ollie.
Vì sao một cô con gái sống với mẹ hai mốt năm trời, rồi bỗng dưng ra đi, không để lại bất cứ tin nhắn hay cách thức liên lạc nào, trừ tấm thiệp không có dòng chữ nào gửi về cho mẹ vào đúng dịp sinh nhật mình?
Những chuyện ấy, thường người ta sẽ tặc lưỡi bảo không sao hiểu nổi, cũng như không thể nào hiểu nổi một nhà thơ có tài và có tiếng một ngày đẹp trời bỗng dưng xoay sang đạo thơ!
Alice Munro'yu çok seviyorum.
Bazı yerlerde hep Murakami ile karşılaştırıldığını görüyor Nobel'i Murakami'nin yerine Munro'nun almasının kimilerince 'haksızlık' olarak nitelendirildiğini görüyorum.
Hiç Murakami okumadım; fakat Alice Munro'ya da haksızlık yapıldığını düşünüyorum.
Munro'nun bana oldukça başka gelen bir havası var.
Aslında çok 'değişik' insanları anlatmıyor; ancak o hep karşımıza çıkabilecek insanları öyle iyi bir şekilde anlatıyor ki kapılıp gidiyorsunuz.
Bilemiyorum, ben Alice Munro okumaktan gerçekten çok büyük keyif alıyorum.
Aslında 'firar etmek isteyen, firar eden' kadınları anlatmış kitaptaki sekiz öyküde de.
Bir yerlerden, bir şeylerden, birilerinden uzaklaşmak, kaçmak isteyen insanları okuyoruz.
Bazı öyküler birbirleriyle bağlantılı; bu da bence okuyucuya ayrı bir keyif veriyor.
One of Munro's best books, Runaway is also one of her most thematically consistent collections.
The scope of the final story, "Powers," is astonishing, as is the protagonist's hard-to-read motivations.I'll definitely revisit these stories later, especially "Passion," one of her best, and "Runaway," one of her most mysterious.If there were half stars I'd give this 4 1/2.
أليس الأمر مغريا بحق؟ أن تنزع عنك عِشرة إنسان أثقل عليك حياتك؟ أن تبدأ بداية ناصعة خالية من توابع الماضي وعثراته؟ أمر رائع، غير أن الأمور تستعصي على التبسيط، والعقبة الأولى هي النفس.
سأكف عن الألغاز واتركك لتقرأ قصة (الهاربة) للنوبلية أليس مونرو.
لم تكتب مونرو ذلك النوع من الأدب الأنثوي الذي يستحضر الرجل فقط ليركل مؤخرته طوال النص، بل طرحت قضايا أسمى وأرقى.
فالأحداث محضرة على نار هادئة، الشخصيات مفرطة في الواقعية والنهايات هي في الغالب مفتوحة.
أحببت قصة (صمت) التي تصور حيرة أم غادرتها ابنتها الشابة في رحلة تأمل وانقطعت أخبارها.
ثم قصة (غرام) التي تحكي عن فتاة ترتبط بخطيب دون عاطفة جياشة.
öykülerde detaylı ve derinleşen bölümlerle, uzun zaman aralıkları, olay örgüsünde boşluklar ve dağınıklık iç içe.
alice munro sanki aralarda söz alıp yol gösteriyor ve sonrasını okura bırakıyor.
öyküleri tamamlamak, anlamlandırmak ve hatta hayatta olayları değerlendirmek, insanları anlamak için munro anlatısının verdiği sır ise ölçülü ve incelikli olmak.
alice munro'yu dünyanın en iyi öykücülerinden biri yapan ölçülülüğü ve inceliği.
olayları felaketler ya da mucizeler olarak görmüyoruz öykülerinde.
insanlar ne mağdur ne suçlu ne de kahraman.
duygulara boğulmuyoruz, hayat hakkında söylev dinlemiyoruz.
öyküler, evet böyle akar diyoruz, zaman böyle geçer, insanlar böyledir...yargılamadan, yüceltmeden ya da aşağılamadan anlama hissi kalıyor öykülerden geriye.
anlama, anlamadan çok anlayış.
Alice Munro - you can't just read her once. You've got to read her again, and again, and again. Her stories written about women and men who live lives like you and I - quietly going about their days, wondering if they missed out on that great big love, or that great big chance; arguing with their children, or their parents, or both; pretending that life is grand, pretending that life isn't pointless.She writes lush, beautiful tales which are long and enjoyable to read. I'm reading her again, soon.
Nội dung câu chuyện, cũng như những gì tác giả gửi gắm đều có thể được người đọc dễ dàng theo dõi và nhận ra, không phải mất nhiều công sức suy ngẫm như ban đầu mình đã nghĩ.Đọc nhiều cuốn truyện ngắn, mình đã quen và chấp nhận việc các chi tiết của nó được giản tiện hơn, nhịp truyện được đẩy nhanh hơn so với thể loại tiểu thuyết.
La Munro continua a mostrare le sue abilità di scrittrice anche in questa ennesima raccolta di racconti.
Nulla è lasciato al caso, tutto è studiato e raccontato nei minimi dettagli.In questi racconti si narra di donne in fuga, donne in fuga da se stesse, dai loro bisogni, dal destino che si accanisce contro di loro.
Sono donne che, nonostante tutto, non rinunciano a se stesse e a ciò che sono, grazie anche a degli scorci intimisti e meravigliosi di un Canada che la Munro dipinge come fosse un quadro.
Munro's collection of the same title, concerns two runaways: "Carla, whose abusive husband, Clark, inspires her to run away, and Sylvia, her neighbor who encourages Carla's runaway attempt.
Wilf's cousin Ollie is in town to attend the ceremony, and Nancy becomes fascinated by his worldly affectations.
In an attempt to impress him, she takes Ollie to visit Tessa, a friend of hers that lives on the outskirts of town.
The facility is shutting down, but she has received a letter asking that Nancy retrieve Tessa, who has lived there for some time.
When the two former friends meet, Nancy attempts to learn about Ollie and his life with Tessa.
This is how she's a realist--not because all the people in her stories wear pants (when appropriate) and none have nipples that light up like flashlights on touch, but because meaning and significance and trajectory gather as if on their own powers, through the accumulation of pieces and the order in which they arrive.
(Isn't it so interesting she doesn't write novels?
It suggests to me that that the magic of her stories requires a limited span, an impending end; too much space and they become jumbled, unclear, diffuse.)While  Runaway  isn't as good as  Too Much Happiness , it is still Munro.
I didn't realize this was a book of short stories when I bought it.
It's my first book of short stories.
I've decided that I don't care much for short stories.
The characters and stories aren't developed enough.
Her stories were a bit bizarre, mostly with endings I didn't like.
Parts of the stories are interesting and I kept expecting them to get better and then I'd get disappointed.
The only one I liked was the second to the last story.
The only thing I did like is the fact that in several books I can guess what's going to happen, but in this one, she managed to surprise me several times.
Thank you, Lev Grossman for comparing my work to Alice Munro and letting me know of her existence. I'm nothing like her, but that doesn't matter, she's wonderful, and now I can read everything she's written, yay!
In Runaway, most of the stories involve a middle-aged woman reflecting on her past and how an event has affected her life.
The premise of each story appears simple - a woman has a passionate love affair with a married man, a daughter fails to comfort her mom - which allows Munro to weave in truths about human relationships through her plain prose.
I read a couple of stories from Runaway every week and discussed them with a friend, which let me savor Munro's prose and her penchant for subtlety that says a lot.
Os oito contos de Alice Munro, reunidos em Fugas contêm vidas inteiras. Vidas de mulheres, das suas relações, dos seus conflitos, das suas buscas incessantes de um significado para as suas vidas.«Fugas é um grande prato de caviar, a navegar sobre uma brilhante cama de gelo, com uma colher de madrepérola. Lembre-se: é por esta razão que come, lê, faz amor, o que quer que seja – para se entregar à [para se deixar levar pela] tola sensação de admiração e prazer.» (The Washington Post)
به آلیس مونرو اعتماد دارم. به نثرش، روایتش، خط داستانش، به شخصیتهاش که نه خیلی خاصن نه خیلی دورنگرا، نه عجیب و غریب. معمولی و عادین. بهش اعتماد دارم چون میدونم بلده. همه چیز رو میدونه. با ظرافت یه بانوی کانادایی میدونه کجا چیکار کنه. مثل وقتی که خط داستان مث یه نمودار سینوسی شیبش عوض میشه و خواننده با یه کشف و شهود به لذت دوچندان میرسه.
به آلیس مونرو اعتماد دارم. به نثرش، روایتش، خط داستانش، به شخصیت‌هاش که نه خیلی خاصن نه خیلی دورنگرا، نه عجیب و غریب. معمولی و عادین. بهش اعتماد دارم چون می‌دونم بلده. همه چیز رو می‌دونه. با ظرافت یه بانوی کانادایی میدونه کجا چیکار کنه. مثل وقتی که خط داستان مث یه نمودار سینوسی شیبش عوض می‌شه و خواننده با یه کشف و شهود به لذت دوچندان می‌رسه.
And until recently I wasn't aware that I share this dislike with a pretty significant amount of people…I've been seeing around Goodreads how common it is for people who read novels not to like short stories.
I was excited to read it, knowing after all, that Alice Munro is a Nobel Laureate from 2013 and that her fan base consists of a lot of friends and readers who's opinions I value.
So for that reason, I like short stories.
If I'm gonna read short stories, may as well be quality ones like Munro's!
Runaway is a short story by prize-winning Canadian author, Alice Munro, available free at https://www.newyorker.com/magazine/20....
Carla is a runaway, having left her parents in Toronto to live with Clarke in a trailer, looking after his horses and helping with riding lessons.
Carla’s step-father called him a loser and a drifter; her mother said he’d break her heart.
Money is tight but Clarke has a plan that involves their neighbour, recently widowed Sylvia Jamieson.
Carla is sent up to the house to carry it out, but things go quite differently.
This is a powerful little short story that has a few twists and a rather dark ending.
