https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/23209924-the-water-knife
As with Brave New World, I think I'm inviting insults to my intelligence by saying this, but sometimes Mr Bacigalupi is just a little too heavy for me.I really like and appreciate what the author tries to do, both the strength of his writing and his focus on the dystopian but not unrealistic futures that could occur due to climate change.
I had flashbacks to when I was in college and had to write an essay on the water wars between India and Pakistan.The reason I probably don't fall in love with a lot of traditional sci-fi is because I like people-based stories.
“If I could put my finger on the moment we genuinely f**ked ourselves, it was the moment we decided that data was something you could use words like believe or disbelieve around.”  Massive Dust storms from abandoned farmland add to the misery of those left alive.Water is going to be more expensive than gasoline. Water is going to be more precious than gold. Water is going to be fought over. “Some people had to bleed so other people could drink. Simple as that.”The world in the future is going to
Simple as that.”The world in the future is going to tilt sideways and only a few are going to be able to hold on.When I lived in Phoenix in the 1990s, the city was in constant litigation with Los Angeles.
The boom of large cities like Phoenix, Los Angeles, and Las Vegas moved a lot of people from places that had adequate sources of water to places where water is scarce.
I loved his novel of a drowned Bangkok, The Windup Girl, and his two young adult novels set in the wastelands of the former U.S.
This is not so much science fiction as “this could be us in about forty years if we don’t stop being idiots” fiction.The story revolves around three characters – a disillusioned reporter who is covering the slow violent death of Phoenix, Arizona, a young girl who is a refugee from the collapsed state of Texas, and a ruthless “water knife” who works for the Las Vegas government to procure water rights at any cost.
HATED IT.Why would you pick up another book by him?One: I like Nenia Campbell and she suggested a friend-read.Two: I like giving authors second chances.Here goes:If you love reading about rape, torture, murder, sexual slavery and forced prostitution, have I got an author for you!
I don't need to read fictionalized versions of "humans are scum" in my free time.And Paolo Bacigalupi is absolutely convinced that human beings are horrible scum and monsters who, when pressed, will revert to rape/torture/death/kill/betrayal.What is this book actually about?Ostensibly this book is about a future world, let's say 2100s, in which water has become a very rare and valuable resource which leads governments, corporations, and everyday people to murder each other for.
I've spent a grand portion of my life living in the desert so I've always been aware of water issues, but honestly, this novel freaked me out with just how bad things have gotten in this near-future SF.
Thriller, dystopia, commentary on human nature with things get really bad?
Not only that, it's a good western.Future SF, absolutely, but it has all the makings of some of the best westerns I've ever watched on TV.
It's not for the faint of heart or the dehydrated, although if you do want to add a little realism to your read, then by all means STOP DRINKING.
A Pulitzer Prize-winning journalist; she's covering the human side of the situation in the West - but she's gradually 'gone native' - making friends and becoming invested in the community.We also meet Angel - the title's 'water knife.' A mobster-style enforcer, he works for boss Catherine Case, the woman who ruthlessly controls the state's water supply.And then, there's Maria - a refugee from Texas who needs to scheme just as hard as Catherine Case ever has just to survive.
While Lucy tries to find out what's really going on, others jockey for power and survival around her; desperation making strange bedfellows.The book's plot is somewhat standard for the genre, but is excellently paced, creating great tension.
And here's why:"Jamie's executioners had carved a story into his ruined flesh, and in the chill of the morgue...his torture stood out, intimate and nasty." Really?
Of the other body parts, only the hands and feet were removed pre-mortem.
If you were to believe our pop culture, humans do nothing but run around devising increasingly sinister ways to inflict pain on each other.
It's hard to believe it can hold in the face of this much glorification of creative suffering -- not just something horrible, but something horrible devised by another human in order to bring maximum pain.
Unless you've got the funds, water is bought by the cup full and there's a battle for control of the south-west between California and Las Vegas, right in the middle of it all is Phoenix, a pressure cooker that's about to blow.
These three will meet amidst violence, murder and torture, everyone’s fighting for the right to prosper and something from the past that could change the battle, to survive or just to get the hell out of Phoenix.
I really enjoyed The Water Knife and if you’re looking for something a little different in your apocalyptic dream then this is well worth checking out.
Letting go of 'my' plants was sad.
My little world -coming out of High School -just starting college -was 'already' a big adjustment.Now --our water supply was scarce....and I needed to 'man-up'!
Whole cities were being destroyed....and I felt helpless 'reading' this book...Then I remembered THIS is a FICTION story....(I had too)...
I've never in my life read a more graphic book of violence -murder -and torture.
I'm guessing he might have.The name Angel (his job was to cut water supplies) -- means "Messenger of God" The holly messenger.The name Lucy (the journalist) --means "Light" & "Clarity".
When it appears that California is finally making its move to monopolize the river, Angel, Lucy and Maria end up coming together in a precarious alliance to stop a conspiracy and secure a future for the people of Phoenix.There are many unsettling themes in this book, and not least of all because the scarcity of potable water is a reality for many people in the world.
Despite being categorized as a sci-fi thriller, The Water Knife is also a very human story, where characters are intimately touched by plot events as well as the lives of other people.The book isn’t exactly a light read, even in the audiobook format I listened to, with its heavy themes and also some parts which are quite drawn out with descriptions.
Amazing, thrilling and carrying a great vocabulary, The Water Knife is both original and full of imagination.
Тогава щата Тексас предприема спешни мерки за предотвратяване на последствията от засушаване и една от тези предложени мерки е събиране на данък от приблизително три долара, който ще се използва за фонд за устойчиво развитие на водните ресурси.Говернаторът на Тексас по това време - Рик Пери - се обявява против този данък и по правен път осуетява гласуването му в местната камара.
Ами тия хора да вземата да се гръмнат, всичко си става ясно, а книгата не е толкова тежка, колкото я описват.Не ми хареса:- може би леко романтичната нишка в отношенията между някои от главните герои.
Much less futuristic and depressing than I thought it would be. Quite thrilling.
Our grandkids will have to worry about it, not us...California Water Wars: https://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Calif...LA Times article dated 6/29/15, "Lawsuits over California Water Rights are a Fight a Century in the Making": http://www.latimes.com/local/californ...Arizona Daily Star Newspaper, "Is California trying to Take Our Water?" article http://tucson.com/news/local/is-calif..., copied below:June 27, 2015 7:29 pm • By Tony DavisRepublican Gov. Doug Ducey and Democratic Rep. Raúl Grijalva don’t agree on much, but both worry California could take Arizona’s water.The conservative governor and the liberal congressman say Arizona must be vigilant to ensure its drought-parched neighbor doesn’t use federal action to grab some of Arizona’s Colorado River supply.Of particular concern is a California drought bill that’s been quietly negotiated for months in the U.S. Senate.“The secrecy generates concern and nervousness.
2.5 stars.The only reason I read this was because it's set partly in Las Vegas.
I read a book about the early years of Las Vegas as we know it today, and even back then, water was a concern.
If someone has grass in their yard instead of desert landscaping or dirt, you know they're an asshole.This book's version of the future in the Southwest was so much more frightening than I could imagine and I want no part of it.
Every time the characters spoke to each other, their dialogue was full of Meaning and Lessons and The Way Things Used to Be and The Way Things Are Now. Also the author was like, "Hey!
The author, with his limitless imagination, creates a sad, violence-ridden world abounding in colorful detail, in sharp contrast to the bleak desert landscape that dominates the story.
(There is a near constant stream of television commercials about the water rights of the tribes here in Oklahoma; the rhetoric from both sides is simply amazing to hear.)Prolonged drought, the draining of the aquifers, and violent political winds have combined to return most of the desert southwest back into its natural form, while the states of the Eastern seaboard, the Gulf Coast, and the Midwest are succumbing to the rising sea levels, monster hurricanes, and severe tornadic storms that dwarf anything previously known in American history.
The beginning of this book was a bit slow moving.
Up until around the 20% mark I was actually considering giving up.However, when it got going, it really got going!
It became a really fun book to read!
Gun fights, gangs, torture!Once it got going I didn't want it to stop, just wanted to keep going onto the next chapter to see what happens next.I would definitely recommend this to people to read, just get through the slow beginning and then you're on for a fun ride!I received this book in exchange for an honest review from negalley All reviews can be found at http://lennonslair.blogspot.co.uk
An imagined near-future where the American Southwest is a virtual dust bowl, water is completely privatized, and gangs, militias and refugees roam, hustling anything to stay alive and hydrated.My first Bacigalupi - I've seen and been intrigued by his books for years, and I am glad I read this one first - but it is not for the faint of heart!
I'm really glad that I did go for it, because I was pleasantly surprised by just how much I enjoyed it.This follows a near-future world where water has become quite a rarity.
Paying through the roof just to get water to survive, and living rough becuase the rest of the world also hasn't been going so strong, well, it's tough.
She's a big investor in water and the leader of an extremely dangerous and fraught gang who are controlling much of the resources near to Phoenix, Vegas and California.
Joder, Bacigalupi, que oscuro eres y como me gustan tus historias. No sé si la novela es de cinco, pero a mi me ha gustado con esa intensidad. Sobre todo todo el pesimismo, la ambientación chunga, el realismo que desprende... A su favor también diré que hasta la última página no estaba segura de como acabaría, algo que dice mucho de Bacigalupi como narrador. Espero que sus próximas novelas tengan este nivel, pues me ha gustado mucho más que La chica mecánica.
For people who like their thrillers with a heavy dose of depth.Seriously, The Water Knife is a thriller for “the thinking person.” If you’ve read many of my reviews, you might have noticed that I rail against thrillers on a semi-regular basis.
Bacigalupi parallels this with Damien in Maria’s story, and how he seems to have more of a conscience than those higher up in the gang’s ranks—but that’s not enough to give him courage.This self-reinforcing style of writing is powerful, and it’s why The Water Knife is a damn good thriller.
A great story about potentially what our world could be like after our water starts to run out. Of course the one percenters aren't affected but the rests of us are pushed to the limits. Politics and money prevail as humanity is pushed to the brink.A rousing adventure with lots of action. WARNING - graphic violence throughoutRecommended book and author
Awesome premise. Action packed. Brutal. Good characters. And then the ending gets away from the author and it devolves a bit. Like really? Ohhhkay. The last fifty pages just felt so wildly implausible within this world. Unearned perhaps. Also the sex scene between the two main characters is kind of hilarious but it isn't supposed to be. Very fun read though.
3 Stars.I am a huge fan of Paolo Bacigalupi and highly recommend him to all my friends. The Water Knife is no exception to that. I enjoyed this book from start to finish and felt that it does just enough to make it worth your time and money. The world building is sufficient and the dry post apocalyptic world is interesting and believable. The characters are good. The story and mystery is fun. I liked this book a lot but never loved anything about it. A good read, not a great one.
Set a few decades in the future, The Water Knife imagines a United States in which states have their own militias and flight each other, refugees flee their drought-ridden homes, and entire states have become uninhabitable – all because of the lack of enough fresh water to sustain the Western half of the US.
It’s a dark story about three unforgettable characters: Angel Velasquez, a Las Vegas Water Knife, or a soldier who fights for water rights, Lucy Monroe, a journalist documenting the decline of Phoenix, and Maria Villarosa, a Texas refugee just trying to survive.
In honor of the Water Knife being basically a near-future Western, I’m going to break my review down into the GOOD, the BAD, and the FUGLY (future ugly).The GoodWhen I cast my mind back to Paolo Bacigalupi’s other more famous book, The Windup Girl, which I read about six years ago, I find what I primarily remember is not plot, the characters, or the writing, but the setting.
(4,5/5)Lo he disfrutado muchísimo, bastante más que The Windup Girl a pesar de la mayor ambición de este último.
Propone un futuro cercano en el que, en muchas partes del mundo el agua se ha convertido en un bien escaso controlado por grandes corporaciones o por estados dando lugar a unas desigualdades brutales en las que los pobres viven prácticamente en campos de refugiados mientras los ricos habitan enormes arcologías autosuficientes.
Bacigalupi construye un thriller magnífico con personajes carismáticos, que se puede leer como advertencia y como imagen de nuestro mundo actual.
Para mí, funciona como un reloj.Será mi próxima reseña en el podcast Neo Nostromo.
Е, надеждите ми не просто се сбъднаха, дори повече- " Водосрез" ми хареса с една идея отгоре и като сюжет, и като разгръщане на самата история.Бачигалупи изгражда доста автентичен пустинен свят, в който водата е кът, а животът се крепи на безмилостна борба за всяка капка.
Авторът много умело насочва вниманието на обществото към процес, който вече е започнал, развива се постепенно и може да се превърне в коварно бъдеще, ако не се вземат мерки, а именно засушаването.
За да се избегне тази участ, която грози човечеството не е нужно да се осланяме само на молитви, върху които се базира концепцията на политикът Рик Пери, с който Бачигалупи се заиграва доста саркастично във "Водосрез", но и да се предприемат съответните действия.
The remaining Texan refugees are treated like sub-humans, either killed as they attempt to reach wetter states or left to dehydrate in arid refugee camps.So far, so dystopically awesome.However, as the narrative developed there were a few things that jarred, and ultimately kicked me out of the story into those ‘why did author do that?!’ style thoughts that can be the death of reading enjoyment.
Bacigalupi is a master of dystopic scenarios and his dust-storm wracked Arizona with its massive refugee camps built around Red Cross disaster relief water pumps will stay with me.
Been such an age since the Wind-up Girl which was a superb & plausible tale of a near future, captivating throughout!However on finishing The Water Knife I have firstly to say that this is not of the same depth & wealth of world building nor character development of its prequel......What’s it all about?
almost rushed even Summing up - No-where nearly as richly detailed as the Wind-up girl & follows more the sort of storyline his shipbreaker series does except the protagonists are adults, same writing vein & more styled for a young adult audience would be my final take on it all.
Good for the most part but it’s not quite the Wind-up girl.
