https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/76834.The_Inklings
As with The Brideshead Generation, Carpenter does focus more on one member of the group, C.S. Lewis, than on the others, for, as he argues, "the Inklings owed their existence as a group almost entirely to him." He gives some details about the life of Tolkien (of whom he has written a separate biography) and more about Charles Williams, but it's in the depiction of the Inklings as a group that Carpenter really shines.The pivotal chapters of the book present Carpenter's description of an imaginary meeting of the Inklings and his analysis of what drew the group together.
A slightly rambling account of the Inklings, focusing mainly on C.
S. Lewis, with Tolkien and Charles Williams as supporting actors.
It's always pleasant to spend time with these people (even if Charles Williams was certifiably insane).
The only issue I have with this book is the strangely detached and critical attitude Humphrey Carpenter takes with respect to C.
S. Lewis's writing.
This happens in the last quarter of the book, completely unexpectedly, and it cost this book its five star rating.
Honestly, I'm not that interested in what Humphrey Carpenter says about Lewis's writing.
Not as good as his biography of Tolkien, which is definitive.
C.S. Lewis, J.R.R. Tolkien, Charles Williams, and many others (including Lewis's brother, Warnie, and Tolkien's son, Christopher in later years) met regularly in Lewis's Magdalen rooms in Oxford to discuss philosophy and theology, as well as to read aloud their most recent literary endeavors.
C.S. Lewis (who was known to friends as 'Jack') was, for me, merely the author of the Narnia series - books I had read and cherished as a child.
Charles Williams, a man I had honestly never heard of, was greatly admired and loved by Lewis, if not by Tolkien.
This was really interesting, though I feel it focused a lot more on C.S. Lewis than on the others and I would have liked a little more balance. But it still made for a great read.
I can't believe more of my friends haven't read this book. The friendship and encouragement in art between the Inklings is inspiring.I've never had an interest in reading The Lord of the Rings, but now I must.
This is my second read about the Inklings, and I found this to be just as enjoyable. It mostly concentrates on Lewis, as Tolkien was discussed extensively in the biography published by the same author, and the others were less well known. I particularly enjoyed the reenactment of what a typical meeting might have been like. It was like being in the room. A good recommendation for any Inkling fan.
Wenn es darum geht, irgendetwas rund um Tolkines Leben zu biographieren, wird gefälligst immer zu Carpenter gegriffen! Mit zahlreichem O-Ton zeigt er die wichtigsten Ausschnitte aus dem Leben der Inklings auf, die zu deren Gründung führten, und zeigt, wie sie dachten und diskutierten. Ein besonderes Schmankerl war dabei das Kapitel mit dem nicht ganz so fiktiven Inklings-Abend.
An informative biography of the Inklings, the Oxford literary society whose members included CS Lewis and JRR Tolkien. I liked the narration by Bernard Mayes.
exploration of the participants of the informal club that got called the Inklings, their meetings, their friendships. wanted to refresh my memory on CS Lewis & Tolkien, but enjoyed the rest of the odd group as well.
A good biography of an extraordinary group! Sitting in on the imaginary meeting was a highlight.
As stated on the older edition of this book, the Inklings were…“A group of writers whose literary fantasies shall fire the imagination of all those who seek a truth beyond reality”C.S Lewis, JRR Tolkien and their friends were a regular feature of the Oxford scenery in the years during, and after the Second World War. They drank beer on Tuesdays at the ‘Bird & Baby’ and on a Thursday night they would meet in Lewis’ Magdalen College rooms to read aloud from the books they were writing.
I feel like I have read my fair share of biographies of subjects from diverse walks of life - popular music, artists, athletes, political figures, etc.
In fact, some of the worst books I have ever read were biographies.
While he does make the persuasive case that the Inklings was, in large part, C.S. Lewis, the book suffers from too much attention given to just him and his personal life away from his peers.
One reads this book to know how these men lived life together.
There are already too many Lewis biographies as it is.
I never heard of Charles Williams but he's nearing the top of the if-i-could-meet-anyone-in-the-world-list...the most fascinating biography(ies) i've read, ever!
but i haven't read too many.
i think the thing i'm learning from the book and it wasn't meant to teach this: one must not be afraid to be wholly passionate.
perhaps one will find himself feeling quite alone, but that shouldn't determine one's love for something because whatever it is, it may be fully deserving of such a passion.finished.
one time even drawing blood!this book made me laugh and cry.
I think one of the only non-fiction books to make me do both so easily.
W ten sposób mogę się bliżej przyjrzeć sytuacji, w jakiej się znaleźli, temu, jakie więzi łączyły poszczególne osoby i poczuć, że to nie była tylko "grupa osób", ale przyjaciele, których łączyły naprawdę bliskie relacje, którzy czerpali od siebie, wpływali na siebie i tworzyli wspólnie jakąś części historii literatury.
Bo chociaż nie była to formalna grupa, a znani są głównie za sprawą Tolkiena i Lewisa, to jednak był to mały kawałek literackiego świata, który od jakiegoś czasu bardzo mnie intrygował, i który poznałam z radością.
This interesting biography tries to tell the stories of several of them at once and it does a pretty good job.
I was mostly interested in Lewis and J.R.R. Tolkein, but enjoyed reading about Charles Williams and the others as well.
I tend to romanticize Lewis's life because being a professor at Oxford and meeting regularly with other literary notables sounds like the perfect life to me.
Of course the reality was different than my romantic fantasizing and the nitty-gritty everyday of their lives wasn't perfect by any means.
This is a biography worth reading if you're a fan of these authors.
Interesting overview of the shifting group of friends calling themselves The Inklings and including CS Lewis and JRR Tolkien.
It really captures what I've always suspected about the group, that their imaginations were huge but their values and beliefs were pretty narrow.
I especially couldn't help but think, what with the backdrop of a sort of assumed air of male superiority, how much their relationships with each other had in common with the social life of junior high girls.
Not enough about Tolkien, and way too much about Charles Williams.
Lovely biographical study of a circle of friends oh God I'm in too much pain after dancing like a lunatic at my sister's wedding, I'll review this anon.
Excellent, entertaining group biography.
After visiting England, Oxford University and The Eagle and Child pub in England these authors, Lewis, Tolkien, Charles Williams, Dorothy Sayers and other Inklings authors mean so much more to me.
First of all, I needed to have done serious studies on those three authors, Malory, Tennyson and several others to have an inkling of where some of these articles were going.
I found that it was better for me to read an article or paper, then let it simmer for a little while before moving on.
This made it a little less confusing, but this is something that should be addressed in the next update.That said, what I learned from the Inkling will enhance the way that I read and re-read the works by these authors in future.
This book should be called Grumpy Old Men. I should know better by now than to want to peek behind the curtain.
I think I read this book in high school (besides recently) at the height of my Tolkien mania but apparently I am a different person now.
Lewis takes on a sort of foster mother who is portrayed as only dragging him down, Tolkien's marriage is sour, and Williams renamed his wife, then had an emotional affair with a colleague that he never got over.
I still love their work (Charles Williams excepted) but really regret digging deeper.
I first read Tolkien's biography in 1986 and was determined to read The Inklings too.
But it took me 31 years to get round to it.
However, it was worth the wait.
Humphrey Carpenter knows how to write a biography, and in The Inklings he gives us an in-depth look at the lives of the most important members of this select literary group.
This is no hagiography.
It is an honest and clear assessment of these men's lives and the impact they had on each other's work and their careers at Oxford and Cambridge.
Well worth reading.
I read this shortly after it was published as background for a research project. I remember enjoying it overall, although I felt it had too much emphasis on C. S. Lewis compared to the others. (Yes, I know Lewis sort of spearheaded the group, but I simply was never that interested in him.) The whole group bio concept could have dissolved into a complete mess but for the excellent writing of Carpenter. This book was the one that led me to his bio of JRRT, which was actually the book I'd been hoping for at the time I read this.
A well written study of the Inkings where the argument is made and justified that C.S. Lewis was the reason for their formation and essentially the glue that held them together. With making this argument, the book at times turns more into a biography of Lewis, touching moderately on Charles Williams and sparingly on Tolkien. Overall, a comprehensive study essential to anyone interested in Lewis, Tolkien, Williams or the Inklings as a group.
Focusing mostly on CSL, this work also sketches the personal and corporate biographies of the Inklings (Lewis and his brother, Tolkien, Williams, Barfield). In that regard it’s mostly serviceable, but one will learn much more from any of the wonderful individual biographies available. HSAT, there is a chapter in the middle of the work that imaginatively narrates a hypothetical Inklings meeting. It is absolutely brilliant and charming. I’d buy the book just for that!
Great detail, chatty, informative, with tons of juicy tidbits and info to explore further from other references. A bit dry in chapters, but really gives an in depth background on these famous, infamous, and not so famous writers.
I am sure I would have enjoyed this more if I had read more of the works of Tolkien and Charles Williams. I was mainly interested in C.S. Lewis. and appreciated the content about him and his life and work.
It was mostly about Lewis, then Tolkien and Williams, and then everyone else, but for what it was, it was good.Recommended 14+ for life stuff and mild language.
Los Inklings Muy buena descripción de quienes eran los Inklings y la mente de cada miembro y más que genios literarios eran buenos amigos
