https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/14061957-ruin-and-rising
I AM SO PISSED.Please allow me the indulgence of using an extended metaphor to describe this series.The first book is the first stages of love.
It's cute.The second book is the "settling in" stage of the relationship.
You want to change him, but you are still in love, these are faults you can deal with because you're in this for the long run.
You remember all the good times.
You wish you had just left it there, where hopes and dreams and the flights of your imagination could have brought you more than this encounter ever could.That is my feeling towards this book.
They had an ordinary life, full of ordinary things--if love can ever be called that.<34.5 stars Oh, and Leigh Bardugo talked to me about the glorious, glorious food of the Grisha trilogy here during this fairy tale lunch: http://www.themidnightgarden.net/2014...
la la la la la tis impossible for me to say anything coherent about the Grisha trilogy because I love it so much. What a wonderful conclusion. I'm so happy I finally continued with this series this year.
That was an interesting conclusion to the trilogy. I can't say I'm super satisfied with how things came together, but it was still enjoyable! My main gripe with this series is it's lack of plot. I wanted more from the story, all three books feel like this build up to the ending, but nothing happens during those build up moments. (obviously this is just my opinion, you don't have to agree with me!)
I was thinking this over in my head and I felt the need to apply a scenario to this one particular character(s) and notp that I (and a lot of my fellow friends) feel strongly negative about.I was thinking of how Mal would for sure be a meninist in the real world and he would be the kind of boyfriend that would be living in his girlfriend’s house and one night he’d just look at his amazing, strong and successful girlfriend Alina and be like, “Hey babe I just want you to know that I feel super uncomfortable by the fact that you make a lot more money than I do.
*5 “you might make me a better man” stars*  “I will strip away all that you know, all that you love, until you have no shelter but mine.”  Agony. Pain. Tears. Heartbreak. Acceptance. This is the way the Grisha trilogy ends.A masterpiece. A gem. Leigh Bardugo gave everything she had in this grand finale. I'm numb and empty inside. I want to sit in silence and contemplate what happened and figure out the reasons why. I came to the conclusion that things were meant to end this way from the start. A
I came to the conclusion that things were meant to end this way from the start.
“I wanted to believe anything so that I wouldn’t have to face the future alone.
how do I want to remember the Darkling
I choose to remember the brilliant dark haired boy, blessed with too much power, burdened by eternity, feared by his own kind, facing the entire world alone and wishing to change things, to create a place for the Grisha and himself.
“In the end, maybe love just meant longing for something impossibly bright and forever out of reach.”
It's been a few years now and I still can't find the words to review this masterpiece of a trilogy.
The worldbuilding was so much fun.
The characters were hilarious & real.
The plot twists were incredible.
SO I now present to you the feels broken down in annoying gifs:How I feel about Nikolai:How I feel about The Darkling:How I feel about Mal:The beginning of this book in the caves:The third amplifier twist:THAT ENDING:Actually, I'm fine with the end.
But I'm still not over a beloved character's death...There you go.
Pretty sure that's the most gifs I've ever used in my life.
I know, I might be a terrible person but I was totally OK with all three ending scenarios.
I was literally rooting for Alina to save the Darkling, Alina with Nikolai, and Alina and Mal. Come on, guys.
BUT the guy gave up his life for Alina in the end.
I already said above that I wanted Alina to save him.
The Darkling will always be one of my favorite characters but I refuse to rate this book just based off of those last few pages even though I shipped the hell out of him and Alina.
But from the beginning, Alina never wanted her powers.
(view spoiler)[This is a very sexy man AKA the Darkling:And this is what I think about this sexy man AKA the Darkling:And this perfectly describes how I feel about the ending: (hide spoiler)]["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>
2 StarsOverview:    Then he cupped my cheek, his thumb tracing my lip."You are all I've ever wanted," he said. "You are the whole of my heart.”  ^My face right now. Let me preface this roast by stating-- my problem isn’t the love triangle. (If you can even call it that.) I’m not upset things didn’t turn out like I wanted, I’m frustrated the conclusion was a hot mess of nonexistent plot and unwinding character development. (Though I do obviously hate one of the love interests with all of my soul
(If you can even call it that.) I’m not upset things didn’t turn out like I wanted, I’m frustrated the conclusion was a hot mess of nonexistent plot and unwinding character development.
(Though I do obviously hate one of the love interests with all of my soul)In my review of Siege and Storm, I theorized there were two possible outcomes for this trilogy—One where Alina embraces the Grisha society and uses her powers, and another where she rejects them and reverts to a ‘simple’ girl.
She had a fantastic amount of development in the first book, when she discovered her powers and started to believe in herself.
Yeah, he might be a bit boring and a stuck-up prick whenever he wants to be, but he's also that cute, loyal and funny best friend that knows exactly what you want, need or fear.
Since we have quite a love, um, square, there was never a solid chance that we'll know who Alina would end up with.
And don't get me wrong -- I don't hate who Alina ends up with, I just thought that she'd be at her best with someone else.
Anyway, I appreciate and respect that Alina finally got the happy-ending she wanted.
This book was everything. 💔🖤💔🖤💔🖤 I'm so emotional right now *SOBS UNCONTROLLABLY* I'll try to review this tomorrow when I can see out of my puffy, blurry, traitorous eyes. 😭😭😭
Then The Thing happens to Nikolai, and it's gratuitous as fuck, because there is absolutely no plot or character development linked to it.
The S&S Mal would be puffing out his chest right now, grinning, feeling really fucking pleased with himself, because all he ever did was beat his chest and cry about Alina being more powerful than him, and act all "emasculated" (just a side note: "emasculation" is the most ridiculous concept in the entire cosmos, and I want to punch anyone who uses that word seriously in a sentence, because it is fucking nonsense).
It took me forever to get through, was dull, was nonsensical, and to be honest, I feel like the author got bored and stopped caring.
The second book ends with the lead characters in a bad situation.
It is a book with many interesting points and interesting characters and so many interesting themes and then the narrative doesn’t want to actually deal with that shit.➽➽First of all, let’s talk about Alina fucking Starkov.
Book two: Alina thinks Mal doesn’t like her back.
Book two: Alina thinks Mal doesn’t like her back.
Book three: Alina still thinks Mal doesn’t like her back, but also they can’t be together because...
1.) Shadow and Bone ★★★★★2.) Siege and Storm ★★★This book was a whole lot of ruin and not enough rising.
This review is going to have mild spoilers, especially with information about Shadow and Bone and Siege and Storm, so please proceed with caution if you haven't read this trilogy.
Mal wanted her powerless and he got his wish in the end, because fuck women making men feel insecure, right?
I obviously wanted her with the Darkling with some kind of redemption story, but I would have even been happy with Nikolai.
“You are all I’ve ever wanted,” he said.
This book is by far the best ending to a series I have ever read!
Bardugo created a character carefully drawn between the lines of good and bad, a perfect shade of grey.Overall I think it's needless to say I loved everything about this book.
The way the author allowed the characters to build their alternate realities of what could have been like the shared story moments in the abandoned house just before the outbreak of war, or the third person BEFORE and AFTERS that started and ended every book.
HAPPENED.For me, it was:+ boring and slow+ the first 100-pages made me want to nap+ i didn't love any of the secondary characters or even care about them+ I still don't understand why people like the Darkling.
He's weird and creepy and what's the pull???+ And then I don't think it squandered some of it's more epic characters and just tossed them out in the end to serve minimal plot points+ I seriously hated the ending.
MAL, MARRY ME NOW." Like she seriously did not even freaking care that Nikolai was gone.
I love the plot twist at the very very end when Alina (view spoiler)[stabs Mal. Omg so beautiful.
Okay, as it seems me reading this series has a pattern:I finish the book and then immediately start reading the next one. *lol*Once again I didn’t even write a review for book two but I can’t help it, I just want to know what happens in the last book! XDI mean there are so many questions and I need answers to all of them!!!Because just to mention a few keywords:- Genya- Alina- Nikolai- The Darkling- Mal GAH!!! WHAT IS GOING TO HAPPEN NEXT?! To say it with Marc Anthony’s lyrics:“Cause I need to k
Okay, as it seems me reading this series has a pattern:I finish the book and then immediately start reading the next one.
*lol*Once again I didn’t even write a review for book two but I can’t help it, I just want to know what happens in the last book!
WHAT IS GOING TO HAPPEN NEXT?!
To say it with Marc Anthony’s lyrics:“Cause I need to know, I need to know, tell me baby girl cause I need to know!” *sings and runs off reading*P.S: I eventually managed to write a review for the first book "Shadow and Bone" so I guess that should count for something.
*lol* ;-P
Like, this book ending one of the best plots and world I have read in the YA universe and yet, it was just a simple nothing book.
Such great character deserved some redemption and I know if Leigh really wanted she would do it.
Oh, and let me leave Grisha behind to save a them love that it doesn't seem to exist (wth, they seem brother and sister, like..???) and keep weak again so I don't have to worry anymore and have a bunch of crying babies.
Like starting from the 0 with Alina while she keeps her powers and helps ruling Ravka and Grisha.
“If you can be happy with someone who stuck a knife in your chest."“They had an ordinary life, full of ordinary things-if love can ever be called that.” 2)The DarklingI still believe that he wanted Alina because he felt alone and she was the only one she understands what it's like to be him with all that power!“This isn’t right,” he said, and in his voice I heard desperation, a new and unfamiliar anguish.
I knew Alina that she would kill the Darkling!
If Mal didn't exist, I would want Nikolai to be with Alina!
I know he didn’t have to kill the love of his life or anything but arguably he had the biggest struggle of any character in this series with that bullshit The Darkling did to him and it hurts my heart.
I mean half the time he made me want to rip my hair out and Alina killing him was possibly the best thing that happened the entire series but also he’s a really interesting antagonist and I begrudgingly admit that reading this story from his point of view would’ve been enthralling.
Moral of the story: A woman should never show more strength and power than her boyfriend. Ladies, you must give up everything so you can be with your man.The end.....Also, fuck any defense for this ending. The fucking title is "Ruin and Rising", and by naming the book this, Leigh Bardugo completely misled everyone into believing this book would be something its not. Read this if you like heavily contrived romance that the actual plot suffers for.
Even as I prayed desperately for a satisfying ending to my favorite YA series of all time, I readied myself for every possible emotion: For devastation.
I was definitely not ready to feel like this:Because that ending was BAD.
Was it so that when he met his pitiful end, we'd feel that he "deserved" it?
Both endings would carry the same dignity for a man of his power.
Given the lack of strong female protagonists in YA, and the dearth of supportive love interests, why on Earth would an author doom her character to this circular end?

This isn't the worst book out there, but the amount of potential squandered, the idea of what it could have been - it all makes me want to weep.
I expected so much more from Leigh, but in the end, it turned out to be just another trope-ridden YA series.More rant coming later.***We have a true cover, and everything is on fire.
I mean, Leigh Bardugo must know, that while maybe about 20 % of fans root for Mal, the other 80 % love the Darkling, right?
RIGHT?***I know this is not the true cover, but every time I look at it, it seems kind if fitting for this book.
“I will strip away all that you know, all that you love, until you have no shelter but mine.”  This will be difficult to explain because in fact I feel very nostalgic by the end of this trilogy that won my heart without my noticing it. But now that I am saying goodbye to the characters seriously I can say that I already miss them so muchThis book has won all the stars in my opinion for the great growth of the characters through it. They have been courageous and strong at all times and I loved
I loved the white hair which is suppose to change after her confrontation with The Darkling in the second book, I believe that at no time explain why the change occurs but I think it gives an interesting style to the plot it's like a representation of good and evil so I found a good change)(view spoiler)[Nikolai's return has made me so happy !, I love this man and he has managed to enchant us as ever because it remains one of the most interesting characters but then when everything goes well PUM!
“Maybe love was superstition, a prayer we said to keep the truth of loneliness at bay." Why you should read the Grisha trilogy:1. The Darkling2. Mal 3. Pirates and demons and magical birds4. The Darkling5. Nikolai6. The Darkling7. Mal and Alina8. Mal9. MAL10. Malyen Fucking OretsevIf you haven't gotten it yet, I'm kind of in love with Mal. And I know some people preferred the other heroes over him. Maybe because he wasn't as funny as Nikolai or as seductive as the Darkling. But I loved that boy
Maybe because he wasn't as funny as Nikolai or as seductive as the Darkling.
But I loved that boy from the start and Chapter 16 and the epilogue ruined my life.
And I think when I'm done writing this review I'm going back to read them again.What I also loved: how I was oddly okay with anyway this could have ended.
The Darkling is literally the most fascinating and intriguing character I have read about and I can't praise Leigh enough for creating someone like him.
"In the end, maybe love just meant longing for something impossibly bright and forever out of reach.""I am not ruined.
FUCK THIS BULL FUCKING SHIT.
It never crossed my mind that Mal-the-Firebird would be anything less than a wonderfully marvelous solution, b/c WHO makes it necessary for the main love interest to DIE in order to SAVE THE WORLD?!Leigh Bardugo, that's who.Bloody hell, man.So we're losing our minds for the last half, or third, or however long it was, of the book trying to figure out how Alina can defeat the Darkling without having to kill Mal .
Note that I'm going to avoid spoilers in this review, so the things I say will stay fairly general and just touch on the surface elements of this book and its place as the final installment of a trilogy.
The Darkling has to be one of the strongest and most memorable characters I can think of in an YA book I've read in recent years.
He's much more enjoyable the way he was written in this entry.For those who followed my reviews for the last two books, one of the biggest complaints I had about Siege and Storm was the glacial pace.
