https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/16842.A_Single_Man
Sometimes he sneaks past the public persona and says exactly what he feels.“Do you think it makes people nasty to be loved?
“The perfect evening...lying down on the couch beside the bookcase and reading himself sleepy...Jim lying opposite him at the other end of the couch, also reading; the two of them absorbed in their books yet so completely aware of each other's presence.”George has moments when the two personas rally together and optimism that is hard to deny comes bubbling to the surface giving him surge of hope that there is time to still formulate a new future.
However, they are only momentary flashes: light and dark.I admit that I did not know Christopher Isherwood.
Spiragli di luce dati da piccole gioie quotidiane si intravedono nelle sue giornate grigie: un amica che lo invita a cena e lo distrae, ma goffamente finisce per baciarlo ignorando la sua omosessualità e pretendendo più di quello che George può offrirle.
Oppure uno studente universitario che passa la notte a casa sua, donandogli qualche ora di compagnia e un desiderio riacceso ma che forse è troppo tardi per assecondare.
Sono però solo intermittenze, luce e buio.Ammetto che non conoscevo Christopher Isherwood.
Christopher Isherwood has written a book that makes me hate him.
Isherwood's novel demonstrates how repressed my fears are, and so does my natural reaction of making a silly joke about my hair.
I didn't really want to discuss the fact that Christopher Isherwood was a gay man and that his protagonist is a gay man but it seems that a lot of people can't get past that fact.
and perhaps when this was written it really was unique to write about a gay man AS IF HE WAS A NORMAL HUMAN BEING but to me George is not defined by his sexuality, he is defined by his humanity and as such that should really be the end of it.
The novel is about loss, but it is also about being an outsider (in this case gay, a foreigner, middle-aged, alone); most of all it is about being human and we share George’s day, his hopes and fears.
The everyday occurrences are well described; dinner with a friend, teaching class (George’s interior monologue is wonderful), a flirtation, swimming in the sea (admittedly only everyday if you live near it!) and the normal activities of all our lives; even driving a car.Isherwood is really asking “How do we live?” “How do we get through life?” There are no answers but the ending is truly great and you will you a long way to find a better one in literature.
There are two thing in particular to highlight that nailed it for me, firstly I do not believe Isherwood set out with the intention of writing a story wholly about about homosexuality but to create a universal character in George Falconer who comes across just like everybody else meaning he is easy to relate to.
Secondly although deeply shattering in it's portrayal of a man grieving for his partner there is something almost life affirming in how George's bereavement is told that not only showcases how to do sad without being depressing, but also what love and affection means in it's truest sense regardless of the sex of a partner.
A single man, during which his life and all that it means and all it has come to spreads open for you like a night bloom, a secret between you and the moon, to look upon it and see what's inside.He wrote it in something like two weeks.
And it's wonderful, and heartbreaking, and now a passenger in my body—a lens over my eyes, the better for me to compare my labors against his.For me to remember how he created so much with so little.Probably the greatest influence on my writing, and the bar against which I measure all literature, not just LGBT lit.Flawless.(view spoiler)[As is the film by former chief designer of house Gucci, Tom Ford.
This witty, acerbic, elegant little novel should not be confused with the soggy, self-pitying movie of the same name.
It was sad and funny and wise and observant without ever becoming sentimental or maudlin.In 186 pages of concentrated, yet langorous, stream-of-consciousness prose Isherwood gets to the heart of what it means to be a middle-aged man, a loner, a fish out of water, an expatriate on several levels -- as a Britisher in a new land, a gay man in mid-century America, a man who thinks of himself as an outsider and a social animal at the same time; as a human, temporarily privileged to be in the land of the living.
He pictures the evening he might have spent, snugly at home, fixing the food he has bought, then lying down on the couch beside the bookcase and reading himself slowly sleepy. At first glance, this is an absolutely convincing and charming scene of domestic contentment. Only after a few instances does George notice the omission which makes it meaningless. What is left out of the picture is Jim, lying opposite him at the other end of the couch, also reading; the two of them absorbed in their boo
What is left out of the picture is Jim, lying opposite him at the other end of the couch, also reading; the two of them absorbed in their books yet so completely aware of each other's presence.
Exploring the theme of homosexuality, Isherwood never ponders about the usual subjects authors can write about when developing gay or lesbian characters: George's relationship with Jim and the other men in his life is depicted as something entirely normal, which is exactly the way it should be done.George is a college lecturer who tells his students things like "a minority is only thought of as a minority when it constitutes some kind of threat to the majority, real or imaginary.
- do they also live out the remainder of their lives reflecting on the halcyon days of yesteryear?Here's the genius of this book: Isherwood writes a fantastic story that reminds the reader that if we live long enough, we will all have an "after-the-moon" chapter in our life.
The protagonist George is living through the post-trauma haze of life after the sudden death of his partner Jim. And though the narrative moves through George's mind and eyes, we recognize that it isn't just George that is having to experience this fog.
We never meet Jim in person. This is George after Jim. A middle-aged man caught between daydreams and nightmares, adhering to the conformity of life in the daytime, drowning his sorrows - well knowing that the little devils can swim - in alcohol at night. Taking exercise, working hard, and allowing himself daydreaming a little once again, cause there MUST be a life after Jim, except there isnt. How do you cope when your lover is gone, killed in a car crash, a lover you even cant admit the love t
This is George after Jim. A middle-aged man caught between daydreams and nightmares, adhering to the conformity of life in the daytime, drowning his sorrows - well knowing that the little devils can swim - in alcohol at night.
Taking exercise, working hard, and allowing himself daydreaming a little once again, ´cause there MUST be a life after Jim, except there isn´t.
Is “living on” denouncing the love and life you shared?
George don’t know, or can’t decide for himself.
I wouldn’t dare to write anything about someone’s absence and how it bares you, as it is already there, tightly packed into this mesmerizing little book.
A Single Man, to me, is a novel about Jim-less George and his pain which feels too real to absorb - palpable and ugly, physical and raw, at times almost disgusting.
What’s more important (and what I discovered reading this book for the second time) is that this novel tells you how much of what you had thought was your truest self is lost in the transition between someone’s presence and absence in your life.
Christopher Isherwood (1904-1986) was an English novelist who pioneered the writing of novels with gay themes in English literature.
They too, became close friends.A couple of years ago, I read Isherwood's The Berlin Stories which was actually composed of two novels: Mr. Norris Changes Trains (1935) and Goodbye to Berlin (1939).
It's about a day in the life of a George, 58-y/o literature professor in a suburb school in Southern California.
Most of my gay friends are younger than me so sometimes I wonder what if I were a gay man: how would my life's been different from what I have now.
It's such a fine example of an author making every word count.Making things count is also on the mind of George, our MC, who is trying to come to grips with life after the death of his partner, Jim. Right from the start of the book, he is looking for a way to emerge from his loss and live again as a single man.
It's an invisibility that is heartbreaking: George's expression of shock and grief at learning of Jim's death gets mistaken for ambivalence, and even when he breaks down at his friend Charlotte's it happens under the cloak of darkness.
Bana sorarsanız kesinlikle hedef şaşırtan kitaplardan; çünkü sona kadar defalarca renk değiştiriyor öte yandan hiç şaşmadan da baştan beri "yabancılaşma" hakkında bir şeyler okuyacaksın ip ucunu apaçık vermişti.
Şu kısmı not almıştım, beni sıklıkla tekmeleyen bir konu zira."Aslında yaşamı katlanır kılan tek şey, bir insanla gerçekten bağlantı kurabildiğin o birkaç ufak an oluyor."Hayata ne denli yakınım, ne denli içinde ne denli dışındayım, sorgulattı sağ olsun :) Bir de nedense kişisel fikrim şu, tam da bu mevsimlerin bu havaların kitabı gibi geldi bana.
Kesinlikle tavsiye ederim.
Ayrıca filmini de tavsiye ederim tam bir görsel şölen.Keyifli okumalar.
Ho questa convinzione errata che un libro breve non possa equivalere ad un libro con molte pagine... questo particolare libro ha smentito questa convinzione.. che importanza hanno molte pagine se non emozionano, coinvolgono, fanno pensare? Cose che questo romanzo così intenso, ben scritto e profondo offrono. Ho trovato un capolavoro in poco più di 140 pagine, non ho altro da dire
A Single Man is a day in the life (quaint naturalist device, that) of a middle-aged Englishman and English professor grieving in a numbed, autopilot kinda way after the recent death of his partner.
How fitting, really, that A Single Man is dedicated to Gore Vidal, for in addition to the slightly creepy, pre-war America First isolationism, the milieu whose passing Vidal most often mourns is the wartime and immediately postwar “Hey Sailor” fuckfest.
Judging by ending of A Single Man, he seems to have worked it out just fine by the early 1960s.
This is a gem of a book. The style of writing is quite lyrical in a sense and beautiful itself, let alone having a great story line!I finished it quickly and highly recommend the Audiobook version. Narration is stunning & adds a lot to it in my opinion!
I am very familiar with this type of humor from my favorite movies and television shows, but I am pleasantly surprised to find it here, in this brilliant little book that, on the surface, appears to be about death and grief.This book is a very intimate portrait of George, a 58 year old man who has just lost the love of his life.
His whole life is a tremendous performance – at his job, where he is an English professor; in his small family oriented neighborhood, where he is the pitied outcast; and even with his “best friend.” He is meticulous in his performances, but he can’t help but let his internal feelings occasionally erupt in small outbursts.
If you watched the 2009 movie version of this story starring Colin Firth before reading this book, be aware that the movie takes the story in...
But they're different.They both tell the story of George, a 50+-year-old professor who has suddenly lost his lover, Jim. They both tell the story across the span of one day, from waking in the morning to going to sleep at night.
But there are also differences that I'm not even sure were necessary in the movie; though perhaps the book didn't have enough je ne sais quois to be an interesting enough movie.Now, forget the movie.
Savaş sonrası Amerika’sında var olabilecek bütün “öteki”leri neredeyse bünyesinde toplamış olan karakterimiz George bir yandan da kaybettiği partneri Jim’in yasını tutarken, hikâyesini alıştığımız o melodramik çıkmazlardan hiçbirisine sokmuyor.
Öğrencileriyle yaptığı konuşma, arkadaşı ile sarhoşken konuştukları ve kitabın son bölümündeki parçalar romanın en sevdiğim bölümleri oldu.Diğer yandan lgbtt romanı olarak lanse edilen bir eser olmasına rağmen kategorinin diğer eserleriyle pek benzeşmiyor.
Haliyle konunun ele alınış şekli çok boyutlu olsa bile her zaman bir eşcinsellik söylemi çıkarmaya müsaittir.
Diğer türdeşi eserleri de çok seviyorum ama bu romanı, bu açıdan ayrı bir sevdim.Haliyle kitabı beğendim.
Thankfully, he still has a biting sense of humor and beware if you're on the receiving end of his satirical skewer.
But George is also incredibly humane and well aware that we all do things worthy of some serious satirical skewering.
It's a remarkably rich portrait of a man who has recently lost his lover in an accident and who isn't truly able to grieve because not everyone knows that he is gay and that that hunky man living with him was not , in fact, a "roommate".
And even with the masks, George is always essentially true to himself, on guard perhaps but always true.
Situazioni che si sono già vissute, di modo che quando si ripresentano riusciamo a fronteggiarle.
Degli altri, non posso dire niente - ma, per ciò che mi riguarda, non c'è niente che mi abbia reso saggio.
Certo, mi è capitato questo e quello; e quando mi ricapita, mi dico ci risiamo.
Intende dire, più stupido di quando era giovane?"."Molto, ma molto più stupido"."Che io sia dannato..
Allora l'esperienza non serve proprio a niente?
Sta dicendo che è esattamente come se non l'avesse fatta?"."No. Non sto dicendo questo.
Dico solo che non puoi servirtene.
Probably the greatest and saddest ending to a book I have ever read.
Nhưng không phải vậy, George, trong các mối quan hệ bên ngoài của mình, lại là một người không kém phần đanh đá, thông minh, thấu hiểu con người, chính điều này mới làm nổi bật lên sự tương phản với hình ảnh trăn trở, suy tư của ông khi ông chỉ ở một mình, khi đã tháo ra cái mặt nạ ưu tú mà số đông kia ưa chuộng hơn.
So right after finishing Isherwood's "A Single Man" last night I did this terrible (or wonderful?) thing of whatching the movie based on the book.
The wonderful part that I had not been moved in such way in a very long time."A Single Man" follows George, a middle-aged university professor, through the 24 hours of one single day of his life.
George's and his student Kenny's dialogue at the end of the book is one of these subtle and moving scenes that will haunt me forever.
If you want quotes, just read the book.(view spoiler)[...George is one hell of an angry man, living almost on automatic, a man in mourning.
Life seemed to be wasted on youth who did not have enough need, gumption to actually grab life tight and live.
Youth seemed afraid to live, life was still something to be done in the future.
In the end it was his experience with what life gave him that made him realise that the only way forward, to breath, was to grab life and live now, right now.
Because George is a gay man in the 1960s, his grief must be private.
Even so, I did not read A Single Man as a gay rights protest piece; it was much more than that.
On a personal level, A Single Man felt like a love letter to Southern California, its freeways, smog, public universities, neighborhoods, diverse population, flora and fauna, and of course the beach.
I loved driving on the freeway with George as we went from the westside through downtown and to the valley, imagining the smog that was in fact much worse 50 years ago than it is today.
« Al cuore della vita c’era un vuoto, una soffitta », questo dice Virginia Woolf a proposito di Clarissa Dalloway nel suo celebre romanzo.
Può capitare di vivere in una casa piccina e una mattina, svegliandosi, scoprire quanto sia enorme e vuota, quanto sia enorme e vuota solo perché nessuno siede al tavolo della colazione, nessuno ti urta il gomito mentre fai la barba, nessuno ti taglia la strada su per le scale.
Al tavolo nell’angolo, dove Kenny siede solo: è lo studente a cui sei più affezionato, così giovane, fresco, bello di una bellezza risparmiata dagli sfregi dell’esperienza, dalla stupidità della vecchia.
Wow. I really wanted to finish this book, not because I loved it, but because I have a thing where I need to finish.
I was reading to finish, not with eagerness.
This was a deep story, in which I really needed to be focused and prepared to fully appreciate the authors clever imagery of a man conflicted within himself and his life.
He was a little neurotic, but not unlikeable.
I felt it was a bit strange, but I'm happy to try new things.
So in a way I'm glad I read it.
I wasn't focused but still appreciated the story somehow.
