https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/32434.Mr_Murder
Murdering good!!!  THE DEADLIEST ENEMY Back then (in 1994), when I read this novel, I enjoyed a lot.I think that it was an interesting way to present the plot, since the main character, Marty Stillwater, is threatened by an unthinkable menace... ...himself......or at least someone who claims that he is Marty Stillwater too.However, this "new" Marty is a coldblooded killer.The story is alternated told from the perspective of the main protagonist and the main antagonist.  HOW ESCAPE FROM HIMSELF?
Back then (in 1994), when I read this novel, I enjoyed a lot.I think that it was an interesting way to present the plot, since the main character, Marty Stillwater, is threatened by an unthinkable menace...
An unexpected surprise in the book, maybe my main complain in the story, it is that it's never clear how or why, Marty Stillwater got involved in this messy business.
He is a famous novelist (as many main characters in Koontz' books) but that isn't a factor of why poor Marty is suffering this threat.However, in the general, I enjoyed a lot the reading experience.
This killer is a big time movie lover and likes to think of himself as the hero.
Needless to say a lot of people are going to die.Parts of the book have enough tension, suspense and action to keep you hooked.
I liked the way Martin would use storytelling to soothe his daughters’ fear.
I say parts because the book has a lot of flab.
There might be better books with the same storyline as well.I shall end by saying that I do agree with Martin and Paige on one thing.
Nothing soothes the mind like reading especially novels.
Reading this book made me remember just how much Koontz rehashes.
There is nothing original in this book - black and white characters, government conspiracy, etc.
All of this is embroidered by his "subtle" ideology (the god guy is a writer, the bad guy despises the written word).
Apparently in Koontz's school of philosophy having a beautiful wife, two ideal daughters and being a succesful writer of suspense novels is good, and being a member of a seceret government organization is bad.
Dean Koontz at his best. I'm giving this book full marks for the suspense - sitting on the edge of your chair, holding your breath type suspense.And he can keep it going at the same terrifying level for whole chapters! Wow! I have seen a few criticisms of the ending, maybe because the book does not end at the climax but instead spends a few quiet pages letting the reader get their breath back and wrapping up all the loose ends. I liked that myself. One I would certainly recommend to readers of the genre.
2015 Update: While I still enjoyed the story, I did drop the rating one star and this would not be #6 in my favorite Dean Koontz ranking - that was clearly my evil twin talking.
While the ending could have been better, the story and mystery was plenty intriguing for me - intriguing enough that I'm ranking this at #6 in my list of Dean Koontz favorites.
Mr. Murder wasn't quite good enough to make it into my top 5, but he's in my top 10 for sure :-) The book reminded me a lot of Relentless by Dean Koontz, a story I'm absolutely in love with.
However, Mr. Koontz could have written this story in half the pages.
The story could have been more interesting, regardless of how much it reminded me of some of his other works, if he had cut out about half of the pages.
The book felt to me like he had a page quota to make, and by God, he was going to make it.The only reason I gave it two stars was because of how interesting the daughter characters were, how much the parents loved them, and because my boyfriend, whom I adore, gave it to me and tried to find something I would enjoy.
I had been getting bored with Dean Koontz in recent years (except for the Frankenstein books,) but picking this one up at a book fair has restored my faith. I haven't been this scared - the kind of scared where you're skimming pages in an effort to find relief and know you shouldn't be reading the book after dark - in years. And it's always refreshing when you can't figure out the ending until the end. Good stuff.
The willingness of 'the other' Martin's shadowy employers to kill four innocent people to protect their secrets is also chilling.There a few small plot holes I won't go into but mostly this is a fast-paced mystery thriller, with a touch of Sf ideas.
I found the ending a bit unexpected but I did like it.Recommended to all readers of the horror/thriller/ mystery genres.
My very first Dean Koontz book, Mr. Murder is an intersting suspense-thriller about a successful novelist who has his life turned upside down when a man (who looks exactly like him) shows up to steal his life (the double thinks the novelist stole his life to begin with). It's quite intriguing and full of major twists that have you wondering where Koontz got his imagination.
For the main character of this novel, his talent gets the better of him in the form of a homicidal imaginary friend that stalks him and threatens his family. Suspenseful, eerie and original, Mr. Murder is a frightening horror thriller about the power of words on a page.
BORING! I liked the plot but the storytelling just bored me. I wanted to quit listening but I wanted to see how it ended. Total disappointment! This is the first Koontz book I've read and I doubt I will seek any more. I expected much more from such a popular author.
5/5 Stars!!! I loved this book.It was suspensful,with strong Characters!!
Let me start off by saying what I loved about the book: The writing was A+, everything was clear and I really enjoyed how he would really get the individual opinions down, like with Dean and his hatred for Star Trek.The characters themselves got me engaged more deeply into the story and caring about their well being, another A+The story, Oh man the story!
You know how in some books you can kind of see what's going to happen at certain points?
A++The ending is the only part of the book that is a little miss.
I read this book for the first time in ten years.
I literally read it in two days straight.
Marty Stillwater is a writer of mystery novels.
He has a lovely wife called Paige, two adorable little girls, Charlotte, who's nine and Emily who is seven.
Everything is good in his life.
Until one day he walks in to find an intruder in his house.
An intruder who claims Marty has stolen his life.
And the intruder wants it back.
including his wife and kids.
What follows is a highy suspenseful cat and mouse struggle as Marty attempts to keep his family safe from harm, against an increasingly desperate and brutal adversary.
Not nearly as good as other books by Koontz, and parallel to Koontz' newer and better The Good Guy. In addition to being science fiction (if I tell you, I spoil some of the fun), Mr. Murder carries a clear political message.Even as science fiction Mr. Murder fails to convince. For example the Other's ability to heal goes far beyond any reasonable enhancement to humans. Certain injuries as--in and of themselves--fatal, with no possibility of the body reassembling or healing itself.
Horrible. This book is too similar to other books Koontz wrote. He just traded names of characters and settings. The main character is a slightly inept writer with a saintly wife and too-smart-for-their-age daughters who are there for the cute factor. Of course they are all pursued by a psycho. If you want to relive the memories of other Koontz novels, then you may like Mr. Murder. If you want something new and refreshing, then stay away. Far away.
Weird, freaky, suspenseful and fun to read is the best description I can give this novel. From beginning to end you won't want to put it down.
Hubby and I listened to this during the long ride to visit Arlington & the Washington, D.C. area.What a complete and utter thrill it was for an avid reader, like myself, to watch my non-reader husband get thoroughly sucked into this book and then want to spend time discussing it during meals and when we would stop for the night at a motel.
That alone would have earned this book 5 stars but the way the author word-weaved his web, slowly ...
oh-so-slowly ...
increasing the tension was pure literary genius and really makes me wish that I could give it many more stars.Highly recommended.
The look-alike manages to track Marty down through a People magazine article on Marty, who they deem "Mr. Murder" because of his novels.There are a few things in this book that mirror some of Koontz's other novels, which made it a little difficult for me to read.
I was annoyed by the look-alike, who seemed to be more of a pest than anything else (but a murdering pest, at that), and I was frustrated by his "handlers", who always seemed to be one step behind.The ending was a little predictable, which I suppose was fine for a story that wasn't very strong.
"Mr. Murder" by Dean Koontz is one of his earlier books, written in 1993.
Marty and his family are being chased by someone who looks just like him.
The story has plenty of suspense, gore, and humor.
I enjoy Koontz's humor as much as I enjoy the suspense of the story.I would recommend this book to anyone who is a Koontz fan.Favorite quote (that had nothing at all to do with the story but made me bust out laughing): "...Believe me, Marty, this is a bad decade to be a bachelor, so many really nasty diseases out there.
Every time I read a Koontz book I am entranced again.
This was a little dry in the very beginning but once the Stillwells were on the run the suspense kept building.
Marty's look-alike is determined that Martin Stillwell has stolen his life, his family and he wants it all back ...at first.
Then he is convinced that they are all "false" people, like "Invasion of the Body Snatchers" and decides he has to get rid of them.
Marty's look alike named Alfie is a highly trained assassin.
At the end of the book we are not sure if there are any more Alfie's out there.
Koontz is one of those authors that I can't seem to stop reading even though I really don't enjoy his writing style. He is just way too wordy for my taste. He can make a 400 page book feel like it's 900 pages. But for some reason I think if I keep trying to read his stuff I'll stumble upon a book that I love and it will all fall into place and explain why he is so popular. So I doubt this will be my last Koontz book. I'm still searching for that one book.
This is the first book by Dean Koontz that I've read, and since I finished it he's gotta be my most favorite author. I really like his imagination and his writing style. The book character's were interesting and the story gets better as you get further into it. If you're a Koontz fan or like suspense or horror novels, you'll like this.
One of the best Dean Koontz's book I've ever read. I recommend it to all DK fans.
Surprisingly bad. For someone who supposedly rivaled Stephen King at his best, this is an incredibly bad book. The characters were dull, the plot was tiresome and the excitement was non-existent.
I read this book when it came out in the early 90s.
When the story Santa's Twin was left uncompleted in Mr. Murder, Koontz fans pleaded that he finish the story.
Santa's Twin reads like a twisted Dr. Seuss story and became a Christmas tradition in my home with my children.
We read Santa's Twin instead of The Night before Christmas and listen to the audio version throughout the year.
So circling back to Mr. Murder....
I was browsing audio books when I came across this narrated by Jay O.
Sanders who also narrated Santa's Twin.
Mr Murder ... I've read Koontz in the past so I decided to revisit an old friend...alas, I didn't like this one at all. No wait, I adored the girls and I don't normally like kids in my books. It just grossed me out. It frustrated me.It annoyed me. It made me angry. I almost stopped reading...many times. I try to be kind but - Watch 'Stranger Things' instead. But I did like the kids, a lot.
This is possibly a 3.5 book for me. I didn't like it as much as Lightening and definitely not as much as the Odd Thomas series.In this book Martin Stillwater seems to have some psychic link to a killer. This killer is coming for him as Martin has the life he needs.I thought the start was pretty slow but the second half of the book was fairly fast paced.
A little story that takes itself way too seriously. If you have read anything else by Mr. Koontz you know the tone of this story and none of the surprise twists are surprises. This is a book to throw in the beach bag or to curl up with on a rainy day. It breaks no new ground but will cause you no harm either.
This book sat on my shelf for more than 20 years between the time it was given to me to the time I finally read it in its entirety.
As I read "Mr. Murder", I noticed far too many similarities between the two books which are both about writers who are being stalked by their evil twins.
The supernatural and psychological thrills make a much more inventive read than "Mr. Murder" which is predominantly psychological in the connection that the protagonist has with his "twin" combined with a subplot about governmental conspiracies which contains elements that may as well be supernatural, but are more attributive to superb governmental science.
