https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/149059.A_Fall_of_Moondust
The Earth's Moon, in the mid 21st Century, this frontier land is slowly growing , the future is in its tranquil cities under lunar domes ( Clavius City, population 52,647) .
Selene (Moon Goddess), a hovercraft designed to float over the lunar surface, especially on the treacherous Sea of Thirst, above the moondust.
Somehow the rather ugly gray moonscape is beautiful, but the universe is a violent place, a small moonquake occurs, and the Selene, quietly disappears, to the bottom of the waterless , dusty, Sea of Thirst, as if back on one of Earth's Oceans, not an airless desert...
He had seen an ant, mindlessly intent upon its mission, stumble at the edge of the crater and topple down the slope.It would have escaped easily enough—but when the first grain of sand had rolled to the bottom of the pit, the waiting ogre had reared out of its lair.
Like it, he was struggling to reach the safety of the rim, while the moving ground swept him back into the depths where death was waiting.
A swift death for the ant, a protracted one for him and his companions.”In “A Fall of Moondust” by Arthur C.
As satisfying as a good HARD SF can be, one complaint often leveled against them is that they are TOO LONG-winded and pageTHICK and that those employing IT don't have the proper skills (story-making, that is) to create the narrative friction and plot rhythm requisite to bring the reading experience to a truly enjoyable climax.
What makes this such a good piece of book is Clarke's ability to give excellent detail without spoiling the mood of the story.
As it is, I still enjoyed it and would say it is certainly worth a read given Clarke's ability to so effectively use the scientific and technical aspects of the plot.
Oh this was sooo close to 5 stars. It must be, oh gosh, almost 40 years since I read this, and boy did I enjoy it. Arthur C is a magnificent storyteller and an excellent character builder.This book builds and builds and just when you think (view spoiler)[ its safe, it all goes "pete tong" (sorry English expression - new rhyming slang) "wrong" (hide spoiler)]It is an excellent book, and given that I have always enjoyed Arthur C , I have to wonder why I have not read more (often). I have probably
It must be, oh gosh, almost 40 years since I read this, and boy did I enjoy it.
Arthur C is a magnificent storyteller and an excellent character builder.This book builds and builds and just when you think (view spoiler)[ its safe, it all goes "pete tong" (sorry English expression - new rhyming slang) "wrong"  (hide spoiler)]It is an excellent book, and given that I have always enjoyed Arthur C , I have to wonder why I have not read more (often).
I have probably read most of his books, but not for a while, so it is about time I revisited my Arthur C library.(Oh so so so close to 5 stars)
Parallel plots ensue focusing on the Selene's passengers and crew buried alive with limited air, the engineers on the surface desperately trying to locate and rescue them, and the news reporters vying for first dibs on the story (or tragedy) of the century.A Fall of Moondust sits right on the cusp of the Golden Age of SF and the actual, legitimate Space Age. It retains the verve, gusto, and quaint 1950s characterizations of the former, but (especially because this is Clarke) the solid, real-world sensibilities of the latter.
Kada bih proljevao ego kao neki onda bih mogao napisati da je Clarkea pojelo vrijeme i da je ovo jako staro i ne uzbudljivo :) No, Clarke je pitak, moćan, izuzetno znanstven i skočan.
Više puta sam si postavio pitanj: "Kako li je samo bilo ljubiteljima fantastike davne 61.
godine kada je knjiga napisana?" Kako su samo oni uživali u ovim bravurijama boga znanstvene fantastike.
Bi sam na Sferakonu gdje je jedan hrvatski SF pisac govorio kako je prerastao Clarkea i "da njemu više to nije" :) Ja tvrdim da ga je tako brzo "prerastao" jer mu nikada nije ni dorastao.
(The exact same situations don’t come up, but the same basic problems apply, as of course they would.) I’m not sure how feasible the science of the Sea of Thirst is, but Clarke makes it work within the story, and as far as I can tell follows all his conclusions through logically — x causes y in the way it should, etc.Unlike The Martian, a whole group of people are trapped and so it goes into the psychology of that kind of situation; the sniping, the attempts to keep harmony, the struggles for control.
For the most part it all feels fairly mild — somehow I never really doubted that they would survive and be saved — but the steps of problem solving are interesting, and the glimpses of character and the way people come together for an issue like this.
really wonderful set-up then bogs down into a bunch of people with slide rules digging a hole
Ok, have to own up to not having finished this. I couldn't.It was as dry as the dust which lends it's name to the book. I just couldn't get enthusiastic about it at all.Sorry Arte!
One of the first novels by Arthur C Clarke that I read as a kid.
Part hard science fiction, part suspenseful thriller, it was a good story then and now.This is a book about saving the lives of people on the moon.
Instead of one person trapped, it is a group of 20, and Clarke has fun with their group dynamic.
Some of the science is a bit dated, but this was written almost a decade before anyone walked on the moon.As to rereading this, I remembered the basic situation and form of rescue, but the various dialog and interactions of the trapped tourists was forgotten.
One of the very first sci-fi books I read, after "Red Planet" and other stories by Robert Heinlein.
Ovo je remek djelo napetosti.Nije bitno što su neki aspekti romana(poput mora prašine ) danas čisti fantasy.Clarkeov roman treba čitati u kontekstu vremena u kojem je napisan.Pet plus.
Clarke!” And then I think back over the books I've read by him and I'm not so sure.
Those perhaps aren't the kind of statistics that should make me pick up yet more of his work, but A Fall of Moondust was only two pounds, and it sounded quite good on the back, and there's a quote on the front cover from John Wyndham saying it's Clarke's best work, and Wyndham is an author that I really do like (he averages a much better 3.7 out of 5 from me here on Goodreads).A Fall of Moondust is basically an episode of Thunderbirds set on the moon.
This book was such a great read for me. I picked it up and felt I was immediately thrust into this lunar environment. The action was paced sublimely. Although the science of a "sea of sand" was not correct, it was easy to suspend belief for this extremely well written story.

By the light of Mother Earth, Selene's passengers are entertained by glorious views of the moon's topography, including the impressive Mountains of Inaccessibility.Pat Harris loves his job.
Character development is a bit lacking, since the book is so short, but the insights we get about Pat Harris and Sue Wilkins, as their characters are tested in an ongoing life-threatening situation, are rewarding, and I was really rooting for them by the end of the story.I read Brilliance Audio's version of A Fall of Moondust which was narrated by Oliver Wyman.
I need to read this again. (I remember enjoying it very much, but a new read might reveal a new star rating.) I was reminded of it because I was thinking about examples of what I call "No Enemy" books. Books where's there's no bad guys, human or alien, but rather the challenge is against an inhospitable planet or a virus or something. Like The Martian Please tell me of any further examples you know of!
Αν σκέφτεσαι να διαβάσεις αυτό το βιβλίο για κάτι χαλαρό απλά ξανασκέψου το...Δεν έχει σημασία αν έχεις προσωπική ζωή, αν έχεις πράγματα να κάνεις ή αν θες να κοιμηθείς το βράδυ, δεν θα σε αφήσει. Από τα καλύτερα SyFy που έχω διαβάσει, δεν σε αφήνει να ηρεμήσεις ούτε κεφάλαιο, είναι για την εποχή που γράφτηκε, τεχνικά τέλειο και το μόνο κακό είναι οτι τελειώνει εντυπωσιακά γρήγορα. Όχι οτι περιμένεις όμως τίποτα λιγότερο από τον Clarke.
A Fall of a Website
You can read my review here: http://embracingmybooks.blogspot.be/2...
کل داستان در مورد دفن و نجات یک اتوبوس گردشگری روی ماهه. یه اتّفاق ساده که فقط باید کلارک باشی تا بتونی ازش چنین داستان هیجانانگیزی روایت کنی که نفسها رو توی سینهها حبس کنه.
کل داستان در مورد دفن و نجات یک اتوبوس گردشگری روی ماهه. یه اتّفاق ساده که فقط باید کلارک باشی تا بتونی ازش چنین داستان هیجان‌انگیزی روایت کنی که نفس‌ها رو توی سینه‌ها حبس کنه.
It would be interesting to see someone make a movie of this based on what we know now.An entertaining story from the time when man dreamed of reaching the stars.For my book challenge this year it said pick some place I’ve always wanted to visit.
There isn’t really any one place on Earth that I’d like more than the others (seeing as I’ve already travelled to and live in Japan), so I picked somewhere out of this world.
The moon seems like an interesting choice.***Reading Challenge 2015: A book set somewhere you’ve always wanted to visit***
But the device of a cruiser traveling across the Sea of Thirst on the moon only to become buried in the dust by a moon quake was too much like other such movies/novels: meet the characters, disaster strikes, characters either deal of freak out, captain and crew must rise to the occasion, rescue efforts, success or failure.Not to say that Clarke does a bad or even mediocre job of it.
The cruiser is the "Selene" after the Greek goddess of the moon.Clarke's doses of hard science were accessible, even for a science-challenged person like me.
By that I mean you can't come to a book or story without the history of your own reading or viewing experiences across the same or other genres and in other mediums.For example, my own love and fascination with "Doctor Who." During the second Doctor's era, there were a lot of stories that fell into the category of base under siege.
Listening to the BBC Audio dramatization of "A Fall of Moondust," I got a similar vibe to that of the old Troughton base under siege stories.
The driving dilemma of how the group of survivors can and will be rescued powers the drama forward and keeps the story from lagging.
It's been such a pleasure to read (well, listen to) these authors that represent standards of Science Fiction. I really enjoy Clarke. Can't wait to really dig into Asimov. I never read this stuff as a kid, but it's a joy to experience now.Also, I particularly enjoy stories in which there's no villain and this is one of them. I kept thinking of The Martian. I have to wonder if Andy Weir consulted this book periodically when writing The Martian.
არი რა... უფრო survival movie-ია, ვიდრე sci-fi, თან ისეთი, სტერეოტიპულ-კლიშეებიანი - ბოლო წამებში ხო ხდება ყველაფერი და იმედი რო ჩნდება, მაგრამ მერე რო ქრება და და მერე რო სხვა იმედი ჩნდება და მერე კიდე... მოკლედ :)
I read this book as a teenager, reading it again was like meeting an old friend. Still good after all these years.
“The best book Arthur C.
Clarke has written,” John Wyndham.No. It isn't.
Rendezvous With Rama was the best book Arthur C.
Clarke wrote.
Not only was RWR the best book Clarke wrote, it is one of the greatest Sci-fi books of all time.
Period.Granted, Rendezvous was published in 1973 and A Fall of Moondust in 1961 and John Wyndham died in 1969 never having the opportunity to read Rendezvous With Rama.
Still, A Fall of Moondust is fecal matter splashed on paper.This book was wretched and boring.
Clarke book, but there's no other way for me to review this.
Not my cup of tea. Solid writing, reads like a movie, and definitely of the optimism of its time. It just didn’t have that something special and surprising that’ll pull some more stars from me.
Arthur C.
Clarke is known for bone dry science fiction, so it's only appropriate that he takes us to the Sea of Thirst on the moon, a massive lake of lunar dust traversed by the tourist cruiser Selene.
When a sudden burst of lunar activity buries Selene under 15 meters of dust, it's up the passengers and crew to survive until rescue by heroic scientists and engineers.There's some psychological drama among the crew and passengers, as they deal with escalating threats from oxygen starvation to heat, but the star of the book are the escalating threats to the buried craft, and the repeated last minute rescues.
If you like Clarke and hard scifi, you'll like this, but don't come for complex characters or thrilling action.
