https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/655425.Whisky_Galore
This book is very amusing, and it is based upon a true story. It gives a great insight into why the simple lives of Highlanders and Islanders are to be so admired and envied.The SS Cabinet Minister runs aground on the rocks of one of the Hebridean islands. The locals, naturally, take advantage of the availability of the ship's cargo: whisky. The authorities have other ideas about what should happen to this precious cargo.The conflict which ensues, and some of the cunning methods that the locals employ, are hysterically funny. I am sure that you will enjoy this delightful tale.
One of the most fun books I have read in a long time. Loved it!
This was an excellent book about an island. Cecily reminded me of this author in her review on DHL just now in one of his short stories on islands.
The interspersed Gaelic didn't give me as much trouble as my edition had a glossary of Gaelic terms with how to pronounce them & their meaning.Here are some examples of the dialect (these are fairly clear as to their meaning but illustrate the way the dialects were written):" 'I'm sorry, Captain MacPhee, but unless the peer comes by Monday's poat the peer will be where the whisky is, and that's nowhere at all' said the big hotel keeper."" 'Chorge will neffer be having the courage to tell Mistress Campbell he's going to be married to her.
Neffer!' he declared.

Not only are food supplies low but whisky is almost non-existent and the islanders are not happy with the situation.In addition the home guard are under suspicion as they are deemed to be not doing their jobs properly and the locals think that Odd has come to spy upon them and report back to headquarters.There are a variety of comic characters in the script with one of them George Campbell well under his mother's thumb.
I have a recollection of having read it, and the story is familiar from having seen the film version, but I could not remember anything about the book itself.
i read it again as I was going back to the Scottish Highlands, and thought it might be amusing.Like the over eager knight at the end of 'Indiana Jones and the Last Crusade', I chose poorly.
This was like a pseudo-literary version of Harry Lauder, playing to the worst music hall stereotypes of Scotsmen.
I was going to say that can't remember when I last encountered such two dimensional characters, but actually that would not be true!
I have start off by saying that I'm a singer in a Celtic band and I don't just sing about whiskey, but I love the stuff.
There were so many things to love about this book, but really at its heart was the culture of Gaelic speaking Scotland.
It is culture where nothing is ever too serious, yet the passion for life is the poetry of the air they breathe.
Music, dancing, and just good Craic with friends is the pulse of the people, and the lubricant that smooths things out is Whiskey, Whiskey Galore.Do yourself a favor, read this book.
The picture on the cover and my vague memories of the film are of people desperately trying to hide whisky from the excise men, but that is merely one day's events in a very good book.
Much of it explores the relationships between islanders when they are in the trying times of an alcohol drought and the effect of a sudden, unexpected, but not entirely legal solution.
I've been told many times that one way to make a novel is to get a set of characters, put them in a challenging situation and see what happens.
Whisky Galore is a wonderful example of a story which could have been written by following that advice.
Though this started out quite slowly, the more I read the more I enjoyed it. Whisky Galore belongs to that genre of writing about the country wherein officious city-types are constantly being wrong-footed by the wily locals, so there are plenty of laughs at the expense of the uptight authority figures. There are also some funny satirical jabs at military incompetence, puritan hypocrisy, and overbearing parents. I hear the 1949 movie version is great, so I'm looking forward to checking that out too.
Cute story about the shenanigans that ensue when the whisky (and, for that matter, beer) supply ran out on the island due to wartime rationing. Certainly a crisis in Highland (or perhaps better island) Scotland. The fun begins when a ship, with 15,000 cases of whisky onboard, runs aground. Definitely a product of its time, but also an enjoyable read.
Really enjoyed this. Loved the complete obsession with Whisky (although I can't stand the stuff). Watched the film afterwards (the original) and enjoyed that too.
Delightful village comedy set in the Outer Hebrides of Scotland. Lots of laughs and quirky characters trying to keep track of their whiskey rations while overbearing parents try to prevent their offspring from tying the knot. Things get out of hand when a very thirsty group of Scottish Highlanders find themselves in a whiskey drought and the hilarity begins when a cargo ship carrying 50,000 bottles of whiskey gets stranded on their island. This is a very light and entertaining romp set in Scotland during WWII and I highly recommend it!
It's a book about whisky, so how could it not be a fun book to read. ;)
I suspect there is a good deal of truth in the story, whatever the author's disclaimer!
Mackenzie knew the Outer Hebrides well, so I guess the book is likely to have a degree of truth in the social history it represents; it is certainly accurate in its depiction of the atmosphere of the islands.
The book has dated, but remains gently humorous and has a pleasing range of characters, though far too many of them have similar names.
I think this is deliberate on the part of the author, as his island characters seem to revel in befuddling the English with exactly this issue.
A bit disappointed really.I loved the Ealing film as a child, and maybe I'm misremembering, but it was really funny.
On two little Scottish islands in World War Two (one Catholic, one protestant) whisky is running out.
Providentially, a supply ship runs aground nearby containing thousands of cases of the said product.
Only a few killjoys are trying to stop the fun.There's a couple of side stories (the more interesting part a lot of the time) about two couples fighting to get married (one with an obstinate father, the other a wonderfully overbearing mother).The film definitely 'salvaged' the best bits of the book and Ealing-ised the rest.
I've laughed my way through it and I'm going to miss it all the way through to when the dvd of the 1949 film arrives.
It isn't worth 5 stars for the writing, the characters are over-drawn to the extent of approaching caricature, the setting is idealised and, like Dylan Thomas's The Outing, makes a bunch of men getting drunk sound almost fabulous; my experience is that it is rarely thus.
It pulls together it's different strands (it wouldn't work if it wasn't set in wartime) to make a very special weave.
Very few books have made me laugh more than this one.
I cannot believe that I had not read this book before. I loved it. Amazingly it did not feel dated at all. I have read a lot of books from the period and they often feel dated (still good, mind you) but this one feels quite fresh (for the lack of a better word). It's a true classic I know, but I had not expected it to be so funny. I was laughing loads and reading passages to my poor husband. I shall be hunting down now a nice vintage edition for the book shelf. This is a keeper.
The cover of this book was interesting, I was not sure if I needed to put on some 3D glasses or if I needed a drink of Whisky to see it properly!There were a lot of characters on this story which made it difficult to follow at times. Also it was written in the dialect of the area which took a bit of getting used too. The story on the whole was quite entertaining and I was pleased when George eventually stood up to his mum.
This is fun light reading.
A re-read. Always enjoyable, very much of its time!
This was recommended to me as 'Katie Morag for grown ups'. I'm a sucker for Katie Morag. I loved this. Original, engaging and funny.
Nice enough, but it's no Para Handy.
A fun and funny read, and it's about whisky. I enjoyed it immensely. Good stuff!
In return, Britain would pay for the munitions is cash AND whisky, this made whisky scarce in Scotland where it was – and is – a crucial component of Scottish island life from taking a few daily drams to high ceremonial occasions.The Hebridean islands of Big and Little Todday (actually Eriskay) are out of whisky when the book begins.
It describes island life and island attitudes and beliefs, from the deep importance of whisky in Scots’ lives to encounters with various kinds of “Little People” and Skerries – seals who come on land and become people, but who can also return to the sea as seals!The idea of the book was the theme for the hilarious movie, “Waking Ned Divine.” In the movie, Ned, who lives in a wee small Irish village, wins the big lottery prize.

Britain is at war with Germany, but a bunch of booze-loving islanders only care about salvaging a cargo of whisky on a shipwreck and having a rollicksome time with it. I class this book as a fun read, the English-language text of which is interspersed, pleasantly so, with Scottish Gaelic terms and phrases. Other than that, I had a hard time taking it seriously. Actually, I thought the story, which takes place during the war with Hitler, was slightly ludicrous, but, then again, I was prepared to willingly suspend disbelief and enjoy the story.
This was great, a nicely paced story populated with a variety of salt of the earth folk desperate for a wee dram and happily cocking a snook to the man.
Two islands worth of residence in fact, all perfectly pitched from the main characters who battle with the DTs and wartime regulations, to the supporting cast who pop up with a timely dram, dark wit or some folksy homespun wisdom.
The only misstep comes right at the end with the introduction of Mrs Odd whose larger than life bellows drown out the quieter personalities of the crofters.
Less of her and it'd have been a solid 4.
Like Monarch of the Glen, I think I like the idea of the book better than the actual narration- but unlike Monarch of the Glen, Whisky Galore picked up speed and held my attention better as the story went on. I generally like descriptive prose, but I somehow feel that Mackenzie tends to ramble a bit too much without moving things forward. The bone-dry humor is here, though, and an immense amount of booze. I wish modern Scotch had names as lyrical as those recovered from the wreck of the Cabinet Minister. Now I'm in search of the 1949 movie...
An entertaining read. I loved the film. The book is different in a number of ways, it doesn't have the same chase element as the authorities try to get hold of the whiskey. What it does have is more of the different characters and the difference in philosophy between the islanders and the mainlanders.
