https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/4449027-something-to-answer-for
At least that must’ve been the case back 1969 when they awarded the inaugural Booker to P.H. Newby for his novel ‘Something to Answer For’.
It’s like that girl who is so hard to turn on but once you dedicate some time to the task and figure it out, she’s fire.
This in turn causes a crisis for Townrow, who in his overheated head was only sure of one thing, that the British government was essentially good and just.
And it’s true I would’ve never got to read ‘Something to Answer For’ if it weren’t for the Booker thing, but now I want to read more Newby’s novels.
Townrow saw himself floating in and out of this dream for the rest of his life, and each time there would be a new twist.
The terrible thing about the form this particular dream took was the longing.Townrow is a snake that eats his own skin to hide the evidence.
Townrow can’t be a genial old family friend to the widow if he isn’t sure she likes him and he is not smooth at all about pressuring her to transfer all of her holdings to him.
Old Townrow thinks more than once that he wishes he was her.
The inaugural Booker Prize winning novel from Newby. Way different than what I was expecting, but in a good way. Steeped in mystery because of the narrator's memory issues; however, the story maintains its appeal and I felt it never got so entirely strange that I couldn't follow the plot line. Rest assured everything is revealed in the end. I thoroughly enjoyed it. Recommended!
Townrow walks though scenes of mob unrest (and kills a man, though apparently nothing comes of it), is arrested as a spy, and watches bloody gunfights between Egyptian and British troops with detachment.
At the end of the novel, Townrow comes to believe that a citizen is not responsible for the morality of his government and has only himself and his own actions to answer for.I don’t usually write such a detailed plot summary in a review, but this book, with its scenes that seemed to go nowhere but had huge influence on what came after, seemed to call for it.
Before I realized how confused Townrow was, I accepted events that later unraveled; and then of course there were events narrated that you know from the get-go are actually some sort of hallucination; and then there are those events that when you reach the last page you still don't actually know where they fall on that spectrum of reality/hallucination.I really enjoy books that successfully blend the local with the large historical moments, and it is hard to do successfully.
I particularly appreciated Newby's development of alliances and relationships as they begin, collapse, are betrayed, renew, all through the eyes of unreliable Townrow and which are as political as they are personal.
Since I had time to kill while I waited (because inter-library loan is not the speediest of demons), I checked out some reviews and basically they all boil down to "No one understand why this book won an award." Reading so many negative reviews may have tainted my reading, but it is honestly difficult to slog through.
Which is a totally plausible idea, but Newby dropped so many references to dreams throughout the book that I am sticking with my assertion that Something to Answer for won the Man-Booker prize because it was the original "And then he woke up and it was all a dream" book.
A bewildering little book.
Is it man's quest for meaning and values in a world that signifies and offers neither?
Inscrutable events on an international scale as a background and foil to an individual's essentially senseless, meaningless actions?
It's hard to tell.
Our main character-cum-third-person-narrator seems to have suffered some severe head-trauma fairly early into the book after a black-out booze binge in an Egyptian dive-bar.
After all, what indeed are the past and the future in a narrative when your story-teller can't distinguish fact from fiction, dream from reality.
My kind of book.
This is probably one of the worst books I've ever read.
Calling it erratic wouldn't be enough, as the plot is all over the place, with some sort of slipping/skipping timeline that never offers any sort of orientating anchor.
None of the characters offer any depth or complexity of personality, and the plot....
After 285 pages, I have no clue what the whole point of the book was.
Thus far, having read John Banville's "The Sea," as well, I am not impressed.
If you see this book at your local bookstore, run away, and don't look back.
It is always interesting to read Booker winners but I have rather mixed feelings about this one (the first). At face value it reads like a comic picaresque dream story, a confusing narrative set in Egypt during the Suez crisis, but it addresses wider issues of responsibility, national identity and the end of the British empire.
First published in 1968, the plot, as it were, revolves around the Suez Canal Crisis, and if that doesn't have you running out and grabbing the first copy you can find (which will take awhile), well, I don't know what will.I actually did some Wikipedia inquiries so I could figure out a bit about the historical situation, and that helped.I read the first 50 pages, give or take, and then set the book down for a few months (I'm pretty sure I started it before my sabbatical, which started on February 8).
I liked this book and didn't like this book.To explain, this book is about a rather shallow man who goes to Port Said in Egypt just about exactly as the Suez Canal crisis erupts in the 1950's.
Interesting, especially for me, as my Dad's family had to flee Egypt leaving lots of their property behind, some of which is still being battled to be reclaimed even still.
I found it almost unbearable not knowing precisely what had happened at certain times, which is the didn't like bit - but the fact that his madness, if that is what it was, was so real, well that showed that the book was well written, and I didn't stop reading even when I was quite impatient - so that was the like bit.

There seems to be an overriding opinion that this book is too confusing and the characters aren't likable enough.On the second point, I think Townrow especially is not very likable, but he sets himself up.
He's honest all the time that he's not a very nice person, and in that sense you admire his honesty and his sense of self.
Townrow narrates the book from a third person perspective but is himself confunsed about a lot of the details.
It's a little odd at first to have a third-person perspective that isn't really sure whats going on, but you get used to it.
And Townrow's misrememberings are a constant source of amusement.
A disturbing, but beautifully written book. The unreliable narrator that tells this story often leaves you confused - about his identity, his motives and the true course of events that revolve around the Suez crisis. The book needs concentration, otherwise the narrative slips away. The reader is taken into a world where reality, history, motives and relationships all bend and distort and the result is a read that has few anchors - just like the narrator's life. An intriguing read.

Disappointing first attempt to conquer the Booker list. This book is like an irritating drunken dream - I have no idea what the point was or why it was written
Если почитать аннотацию, то выглядит всё цивильно: на фоне Суэцкого кризиса ушибленный на голову Таунроу пытается разобраться со вдовой своего друга и переосмыслить свою жизнь.
Это всё ладно, можно было бы списать на оттенение абсурдности самой войны на Канале.
Но сам герой, вокруг которого, как это и бывает в книгах, происходит вообще всё, ведёт себя каким-то непостижимо чудовищным образом.
Ну вот сейчас, после того как поместила свои недовольства в фразы, мне вдруг показалось, что Таунроу - это метафора Британской империи, которая вот так же вот вторгалась в жизни других стран и беззастенчиво распоряжалась их имуществом и жизнями граждан, но уж слишком будет тонко.
THIS IS THE BEST BOOK I HAVE READ IN A LONG TIME, yes I want to shout!
If you like great writing read this book, please.
Townrow, the protagonist, a Brit, suffers a blow to the head, resulting in mental chaos which parallels the political situation in Port Said, where the story takes place.
Strangely most reviewers extensively recount the "events" set forth in the book.
I say "events" because it is never clear which of Townrow's experiences have actually happened, which take place in dreams or hallucinations or are outright lies by Townrow.
Maybe the reviewers are trying to categorize the facts by recounting them.
I want to read more of his work.
Chose to read this because it was the first winner of the Booker Prize, and I was curious how standards for this prize might have changed over the nearly 50 years it has run.
Happy to find that literary standards seem similarly high.
I admire how well the author crafted the novel, handled an unreliable narrator and integrated historical events of the Suez Crisis into the fiction.
Yet I had a hard time finishing the novel.
I might try re-reading this another time to see if the challenges of the unreliable narrator over the long haul of the novel keep my attention.
Started well, and I was enjoying it while it was tethered in something approaching real life. Unfortunately it caught a bad case of unreliable-narratoritis, and lost all sense of reality or meaning, wandering off down imaginary byways and completely severing any interest I might have had in the plot and/or the protagonist.I think this would be a difficult book for any modern reader with no knowledge of the history involved: specifically the Suez Canal crisis, which brought Sir Anthony Eden down. It has not aged well.
I found this book confusing and the characters unlikeable. However in the confusing plot line the author unveiled many different aspects of the Suez Canal Crisis. The reader was introduced to many characters inside of only a handful throughout the reinvention of Townrow’s memory. We got to see how the story may have played out under different scenarios. That said the technical worth of the writing itself didn’t not endear this book to me. I suppose I’m simple in that I like to read a book for the enjoyment of it. Not the technical acrobatics.
A real mixed bag. At times well written and showing signs of being a good read and then falling apart to become a totally confusing diatribe. It takes place around the period that Egypt took control of the Suez Canal and is, probably, an expose of British conduct in world affairs but I'm not positive that this is the underlying message. The book seemed to weave in and out of reality and was fairly disorienting.
This book is disjointed and to be frank weird . I enjoyed bits of it at times but never wanted to pick it up. It took me over a year to finish and really I mostly finished it because I wanted to say I had. However I'm now wondering if it wouldn't be a good book to take away to a electronics and people free place and just focus on...
Enjoyed the prose but it's a baffling read.
Review coming
A difficult book to rate. On one hand it's well written and interesting, clearly in the realm of literature, and on the other hand the protagonist is intensely unlikable and the situations he describes painful to read. I couldn't even finish the book, stopping just short of halfway.
After Townrow’s hit on the head, the rest of the novel is incredibly disorienting.
As far as a “discussion” goes, all I came up with was a series of questions, completely based on trying to figure out what was going on in the novel.
Why is there so much confusion around the funeral, the body, the burial, etc.?What do you make of the concept of Townrow’s true nationality?
And how do I know I didn’t?” Did anyone else have the impression that Townrow might have actually been dead?What did you think of the ending of the novel?
What is the significance of Townrow floating off with Elie’s body?
Man Book Book Prize is awarded for the best original novel, written in English and published in the United Kingdom.
The first book to ever receive the award was in 1969, and was titled, ‘Something To Answer For’ by P H Newby.Townrow is working as a Trust Fund dispenser in London, when he receives a letter from Mrs Khoury in Cairo.
Eventually he meets up with Mrs Khoury, who takes care of him until he is well.However, from then on the story becomes crazily confused, leaving the reader wondering if Townrow is crazy, if the author is crazy or if indeed, you, the reader, are going crazy.
Voila, let me pull a rabbit out of my hat, let’s create a literary institution!How ironic that then that the first ever Booker Prize winner is a novel that through pathos, black comedy and farce questions the relevance of the Commonwealth.
This ridiculous concept of “self”, of being “British”, of still maintaining an influence in world affairs is questioned throughout P.H. Newby’s hard to source and until recent times a forgotten novel.For a full review visit my blog at www.messybooker.blogspot.com
Britain goes back to Egypt a few years after it had left, gets beaten up, has an identity crisis and drifts off, uncertain of its place in the world.Sorry, sorry.
Townrow, the hero, goes back to Egypt etc., etc.When this was written the Suez Crisis would have been fresh enough in everybody’s mind for it work as a metaphor for Britain’s search for its new role in a post-war world.
Townrow gets there just before the Suez Crisis kicks off, so everybody thinks he is a spy.
He gets beaten up, left for dead, and ends up wandering around very dazed and confused.
