https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/3613997-the-associate
I was so disappointed in Grisham's latest work.
He took more than half the book to create this wonderfully detailed plot and then three chapters to close the book.
Three chapters in which he untwisted some of the elements of the plot, didn't resolve anything, and quit to early.
I felt so unfulfilled at the end.It kills me that his latest books haven't been up to par with his earlier works.
In the beginning, his books were well-crafted and well-executed.
After he began seeing his books turn into movies, they became a little fluffier but he eventually returned with The Street Lawyer and The Broker.
We want our characters to feel like they have lives beyond the confines of the printed page and that their story exists before, during and after the book we're reading.
But a good book should at least provide the reader with some sense of closure and not the feeling like an editor was standing over the writer, pointing out that he or she had x-number of pages left or he or she was slowly reaching the word count for the novel and that wrapping up the book soon would be a good idea.
The most anti-climactic book ever. What happened to the Grisham I used to love?
I enjoyed this one quite a bit, but....I got into the intrigue, especially once Kyle started attempting to turn the tables on Bennie & Nigel. But then came the ending. What is with Grisham these days? I didn't like the ending. I did not DESPISE the ending, as I did with Grisham's last book (The Appeal), but I found it entirely unsatisfying. Just give me a good, old-fashioned, bad-guys-get-their-butts-kicked ending anyday!
With every book, Grisham gets worse. I keep telling myself I should stop reading the garbage he his dishing out, but I keep going back just to find out how bad it can get. What can I say? I give one star because for effort, just to type the words in. Otherwise there is not much to recommend in this book. The plot is weaker than Bud Lite, the ending is anti-climactic.
"The consequences were horrifying. The magnitude of the conspiracy caused Kyle's heart to hammer away. His mouth became dry and he sipped lukewarm coffee. He wanted to leap for the door, sprint down forty-one flights of stairs, and run through the streets of New York like a madman." Kyle McAvoy plans to finish law school, then work for the under-privileged for a few years before heading for the big time and money. However, Kyle has a dirty secret locked away in his past. Only a handful of peopl
What happens when the secret that could ruin Kyle's life falls into the wrong hands?
It wasn't one of his best books, nor one of his worst, slightly better than just okay.The main takeaway points were that it's better to do the right thing at the earliest possible stage because otherwise you just end up digging a huge hole for yourself, and other people.
Work is important and the mandate was originally given by God, but there's a difference between working to live and living to work!There is the odd bit of swearing in this book and a limited amount of non-graphic sexual content.
For the reason that in both novels, young lawyers are on the run chased by fraud FBI agents or blackmailers from pathetic law firms.
Very exciting!The idea of working at a big law firm started to bug me (in a good way).
I feel like, I wanted to work as a litigator and as an associate at a law firm after I have passed the bar exam (Always look forward and think positively!
:p) but my dad often tells me that in the Philippines, law firms are not given the chance to rise up.

No spoiler alert needed because there are no spoilers.
Every aspect of this novel has been done in earlier works of 'legal fiction' by Grisham, and sections bolted together for this new novel.
It was enjoyable and a prototypical Grisham read, but there was absolutely nothing new under this literary sun...Grisham should parody the creation of the next Grisham novel, where a bright young legal graduate is coerced into a secretive law firm.
On his first day, he is spirited into a basement vault, where he and other new lawyers read through all the existing Grisham works, and use them to build a new one....
In most circumstances, the "quick reads" or "beach books" are so lame-brain and cornball that I skim the book in a half-hour (i.e. James Patterson) However, I have read (really read, not skimmed) every one of Grisham's books. I enjoy Grisham because his stories are the same. You have the same kind of characters, the same dialogue, but it's always suspenseful. You always want to know what's going to happen next. I am comforted by his predictability, for some odd reason.
It seems like lately when I read Grisham, its a good story with some interesting twists and turns, but the climax is not really super exciting and there tends not to be all that much resolution. That was the case again here. A good book - but not tons of excitement.
A mysterious undercover agent blackmails him with this information and forces Kyle to spy on his new employers and to pass important data if he does not want his future to be destroyed by one fateful night.Initially, I went to our local library, knowing they have tons of Grisham novels on their shelves, with the intention to borrow either "The Firm" or "The Client".
I kind of lost interest in the book after 250 pages or so, yet it remained entertaining and provided some interesting thoughts on life as an attorney in the Wall Street.
I do not have law degree. And I can related to the main character. the brutal hours you have to work to make it to the top. the politic you have to play to get recognition. And yet there is always someone better than you. But i think the moral story here is do the right thing even the right things sometimes hurt the most. But it will set you free.
Very exciting even though at times I wanted to yell at Kyle, the main character, not to fall for the blackmail scheme laid out before him.
Kyle was involved in the latter, and thought it was all behind him, until he is approached by strange men who threaten to expose everything and ruin his promising law career unless he helps them.
He goes along with it, not because he's guilty of anything, but because there are other lives that could be ruined along with his, should the story come out in full.
If you like Grisham's earliest works (the Firm, the Pelican Brief, etc.) you'll probably like this one too. It's fast paced, about a young lawyer in big firm who is in trouble. However, I didn't like this one as well as some of the others because I thought the ending was VERY unsatisfying. Grisham didn't tie up the ends the reader is dying to find out at the end of the novel. Darn! I'll be interested in what others say about it
This is the slowest Grisham book I've read -- and I've read them all. It's tedious. It does not read like Grisham. There's almost no action until the end of the book, and then there's not much. What a disappointment.
We've got the hot blonde female lawyer who, despite being cold and reclusive, is sleeping with Kyle in less than 100 pages and whose back (her BACK) is described as "trim with a nice curve to it" or something crazy like that.
This motive remains undetermined through the ending -- so, thanks a lot for that, Grisham -- but along the way they follow Kyle's every move, wiretap his apartment, assassinate one of his college friends in a gas station bathroom, and manage to foil the FBI coming to take them down.
However, he is approached by some men who appear to be agents of the FBI who want him to meet a Pittsburgh police officer Bennie, who they claim has a video showing that Kyle witnessed and/or participated in a rape on campus when he was a senior at his fraternity during his last year at college.
He orders Kyle to back out of his planned next law job and take a job with the large New York law firm.
Unfortunately, he meets Bennie Wright with a Yale Beta Fraternity "party" video with a girl "Elaine Keenan".
The "party" video of Kyle, Baxtor Tate, Alan Strock & Joey Bernardo were the 4 Brothers with Elaine.
Is Kyle risking being disbarred & going to jail?Who is Bennie Wright really working for?
His clients included - Placid Motgage, Baxter Tate & Trylon Aeronautics.After dust settles, his dream is back to be a "public interest moral & ethic lawyer" in a new firm, McAvoy & McAvoy (his dad, John McAvoy in Pennsylvania).
It said something like, “if you thought Mitchell McDeere had problems in The Firm, wait ‘til you see what happens to Kyle McAvoy in The Associate.
Somebody obviously grabbed me with the right hook to pick up this new Grisham story, but it sorely disappointed me.
Grisham started on a straight line and never veered off it all the way to the finish line, no twists, no turns, no satisfaction.
Grisham totally copped out on providing any kind of satisfying conclusion to the reader.
He set up this whole situation then just dropped the ball like we wouldn’t really care that nothing happened and nothing got resolved.
For a fair amount of this book, this had the feel of an earlier Grisham, The Firm, where the main character, a lawyer, is in a lot of trouble and there seems to be no way out without severe consequences.
The ending, though, did not have that same satisfying feel of a really good wrap up with all of the threads.
I was thinking toward the end, How is Grisham going to wrap this up so quickly since there isn't much left.
I think that he could have done so much more with this.
Kyle is just finishing up law school at Yale and is planning to work for a public-interest firm after graduation when a bad guy surfaces with a video, secretly taken by a cell phone, which reveals the bawdy details of a drunken frat party five years earlier.
Meanwhile, Kyle spends most of his time trying to figure out how to outsmart them while also being the hardest working first-year associate at the firm.
They organize an operation to catch the bad guy when Kyle brings stolen files to him.
This one's ok. I'm pretty sure, however, that Grisham has a lot of much better things to offer in his more popular books. The thing that puts me off about this one is that things only stir up late (only until the start of the book's last quarter, I think). Before that, it's like he's just slowly making a big mound of anything; and you see, that's the part that's a little too boring.
As usual with Grisham, I can't put a book down for very long until I've picked it up again. I would hope that there might be a follow-up to this one so I can learn about what happens to the "bad guys".
Kyle kinda-sorta wants to do pro bono legal aid work with migrants, and is considering passing, when he's visited by Bennie, a shady agent of some unknown powerful client, who shows him video proof of Kyle and his fraternity brothers taking advantage of a drunk, possibly unconscious, girl at a house party.
And then one of the men on the video decides he must reach out to the girl and apologize, threatening all of Kyle's plans.So this novel has some prototypical Grisham themes besides the noble (maybe not so noble, this time) and brilliant student against the vast and amoral Firm.
This is the reason I'm giving this book one star.I was having some serious issues with this as Grisham compares the case of college co-ed Elaine - who was in a compromising situation with our protagonist Kyle and his friends - to the heavily publicized Duke lacrosse case.
In "The Associate" a video surfaces of Kyle's friends Joey and the troubled Baxter having sex with a girl who is so unresponsive Joey even has to ask "Is she awake?".
I can't speak for anyone in the Duke lacrosse case, obviously, but Kyle's struggle with what he witnessed on the video clearly troubles him.
I must say, however, that The Associate by John Grisham was a terrible book.
I came across The Associate at Half Price Books and thought “why not?” Boy, has time changed the author—and not for the better.
Do lawyers even read these books or find them even mildly entertaining?In the book, a hotshot law student has two great job offers and a bright future, but a blackmailing expert team has found a skeleton in his closet and exploits it to the fullest in order to obtain highly confidential information.
Looking at the bright side, I hope this review saved you a worthless read.
Law student Kyle McAvoy is in a bit of trouble: Some shady characters have got hold of a secret from his past that could drag him to court and get him thrown in jail.
He feels he has no choice but to go along with their demands: Take a job at one of the biggest law firms in the world and spy, steal and generally do a bunch of things that could get him thrown in jail on behalf of his blackmailers.I always forget that with Grisham the blurb tends to be a lot more thrilling than the actual book, potentially due to his extremely dry writing style that doesn't really let me connect with the characters at all.
I'm spending two weeks in a place on Sanibel Island stocked with Grisham books...that's the reason for three in a week.
(I brought The Alienist by Caleb Carr but have found it's not very "beachy" and requires more concentration than my brain has at the moment.) This book, The Associate, was oh so lame - the weakest premise, an insufferable protagonist who is smarter (at age 25 when everyone is still a bit of a moron...everyone except voice-of-reason Kyle) than EVERYONE around him - smarter than seasoned Ivy League lawyers, clandestine international operatives, feds: all no match for Kyle.
Just an "Oh, well....who knows?"When Grisham is good, he's very entertaining but when he's bad, he's really really bad.
The Associate simply has too many loose ends.
When Kyle McAvoy, the eponymous Associate, is blackmailed in the opening pages over an incident in his past (not that he was actually guilty of anything) he decides not to consult his lawyer father because Dad would say, "Why didn't you tell me earlier?" Which is exactly what he does say when he is consulted near the end and Kyle has to be extricated somehow.
Convenient though that may be, it leaves so many unanswered questions the reader may suspect that the author didn't begin with a worked-through story line but with nothing more demanding than a wordage target.
If the author cheats, the reader is cheated.
And that is the feeling that remains at the end of a very poor story.
