https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/183106.The_Gatehouse_Mystery
I can understand why young adults would like this series, as it is sweet and there is a lot of interaction between brothers and sisters, and even friends.
Plus the interactions between the young adults weren’t that interesting to me.
Maybe it was just the mood I was in at the time, but I am not sure that I would try to read another of this series.In this book, Trixie and her new friend Honey find a diamond in a old abandoned gatehouse.
They spend a lot of time trying to find a hiding place for it and then moving it again and again.
Luckily, I found scans of many of the books on OpenLibrary, so I'm going to re-read as much of the old series as I can find!
Revisiting my old Sleepyside buddies as an adult has given me some mixed emotions, but all things considered I'm enjoying it.The Gatehouse Mystery is the third book in the series.
When there is a word or phrase I find a bit offensive, I have to remind myself that the series is 60+ years old, and take things in the spirit in which it was originally meant.The Gatehouse Mystery is one of the Trixie Belden books that was re-released.
This is necessary because there's an awful lot of taking advantage of wealth going on--servants bringing them picnics, the big house and all its bedrooms that the Wheelers set up specifically to give the Beldens a home away from home, and (view spoiler)[Trixie's horse.
For this is the book where the Bob-Whites of the Glen are formed and Trixie's older brothers are introduced.
I always wanted to belong to a club and as I got older, I got a serious crush on dark, handsome, doctor-to-be Brian Belden.8-17-12: The perfect summer book and still one of my favorites in the series.
:)6-23-13: See, this time those above things didn't bug me.
:) Regan bugged me a little this time though.
He's 22 and talks like an old man or like the Bob-Whites are little kids.
This is still one of my favorites in the whole series and a perfect summer read!
For Christmas, my parents grabbed me the entire Trixie Belden set and I couldn't put them down. Even with a learning disability, I devoured the books. I look back now and I find that Trixie Belden was much more age related to young girls, particularly to me, reading the books than Nancy Drew. I found that they weren't so "over the top" either. I will be doing the same thing with my granddaughters if and when I have them, even if I have to stalk every used bookstore.
It is the first in which Trixie and Honey declare their intent to be private investigators, and, while previously they kept secrets to protect others, this is the first in which they withhold information for no reason other than because "they want to solve the crime before the police."Sadly, in this one, the  Red Trailer Mystery idyll of girl power and independence is over, Trixie's brothers return from camp, and rich girl Honey who had never done a lick of house work in her life suddenly makes the "best waffles," knows how to darn socks, and loves to - really loves - to sew.
This is not a see-crud, I guess, to those of you who are fans of this series.
And isn't it just yummy-yum-yum?"To a certain degree, I guess it is.
There's a secret-club feel to this series, a belonging and an inclusion that I imagine would appeal greatly to odd little kids.
And I admit to snorting with adolescent-style laughter every time the boys called the girls "Moll Dicks, Inc." because yes, I am twelve years old.
The characters are very likable, though I can't really tell the boys apart yet.
I don't like the illustrations, I think they make Trixie and Honey look eight years old.
Found this book laying around somewhere during my elementary school years, and it started my Trixie Belden collection. I went on to collect all of them, and they're boxed up in my basement today. Preferred Trixie, who was fiesty and middle class, to Nancy Drew, who I perceived as unbelievable perfect and rich. The books have not all been simultaneously in print for some time, and the last few are hard to find. I'm sure I would find them predictable and trite by my current standards. But I did move on to better reading . . .
This is probably the first "big" book I read as a kid. I can say I liked it because my memories of it are good, but I don't remember as much about the story. I do remember thinking Trixie and I were basically the same age and I can't believe what kind of trouble she gets herself into. Anyway, I remember liking it :)
Listening to the audio book for my summer re-read.Re-reading via audio book/overdrive 8/18/14-8/19/14 I love this book so much! Brian and Mart are home from camp, and the BWG's are formed.2015 audio reread in September
This is the first one that felt like a complete mystery, and where the series finds its footing, I think. :)
This is one of my favorite Trixie books because this is when Trixie's older brothers come home from camp and the club Bob-Whites of the Glen are formed.
But, after the adventures and meeting two new friends in the first two books, the boys are back and the five characters become best friends.
The stories are timeless and good wholehearted, innocent fun for ages 11-16 (or older, as in my example) and the characters engage in true friendships, morals, real adventures and mysteries, and there is always something new to learn.
This is odd, of course, because they were MEANT for teen and pre-teen girls, but I was a young boy that read everything he could get his hands on and when I first stumbled on my first TRIXIE BELDON book I was instantly hooked!
Trixie is the star, or "lead" character, followed by Jim and Honey (who quickly became the love of my young life, I had a total crush on a fictional character that only existed in ink) and this brave trio was constantly getting into trouble, solving mysteries and murders; that sort of thing.
I lost all of my Trixie books years ago, lending them to friends and that sort of thing.
Everyone that has ever read Trixie Belden knows that the Belden clan always called their mother "MOMS" not mother.
Also in this 3rd book in the "old" version the boys called the girls "Schoolgirl Shamuses" and in the new version they call them "Moll Dicks" WHAT THE HECK?!?!
I had to go look up what the heck a "Moll" is.
Of course we all know that "dick" is a slang word for Private Eye, but "Moll dick" Again...WHAT THE HECK!
Supposedly the changes in the wording was supposed to bring things more up-to-date but I would argue leaving the old would have been way more understanding than this new stuff.
This book is about two best friends named Trixie and Honey and how they found a diamond stuck in the dirt floor of an abandoned gatehouse in Sleepyside.
The girls later on got a new chauffeur named Dick who Trixie believed that he became their chauffeur because he was one of the robbers or thieves that were in the gatehouse, and maybe saw the girls take the diamond.
However, in some pages of the book, it talked about different topics that were not related to what was going on.
– Most of a day’s read.Characters?
– Real world, pre - computer pre - air conditioning, pre - cell phone.Written approximately?
– 1951.Does the story leave questions in the readers mind?
Yes. A slight mention of the time frame of the story - as the teens are given far more freedom to come and go as they please than would be safe today.
Also, the absence of computers, cell phones, and air conditioning in homes, especially the mansion.Short storyline: Trixie Belden, Honey, Jim, and her brothers work to catch the thieves who dropped a diamond in their future clubhouse.
They set about trying to solve the mystery themselves and soon find they are surrounded by possible suspects: a passing tramp, the new gardener, the old gardener, the new chauffer, the new maid, etc.
This book also brings the return of Trixie's brothers home from their jobs at summer camp and the development of something that has Honey claiming all of her dreams have finally come true.
As an adult, though, I can now realize that good writing just caused me to really dislike one of the suspects, which spilled over onto my overall view of the book when I was younger.

Jim Frayne is now officially Honey's new brother because her parents decided to adopt him.
Jim now lives on the Wheeler estate, but he still has his own money in trust account, thanks to the fortune of his great-uncle.
Someone has been sneaking into the gatehouse behind the Wheeler estate and Trixie is determined to find out who.
Trixie and Honey have also found a diamond, which Honey says does not belong to either of her parents.This book is the first time we get a hint of the Bob-White Club that will be formed.
The Bob-Whites include Trixie and Honey, as well as Jim and Trixie's older brothers, Brian and Mart.
Compared to the Boy Wonder, Space Boy!-type series of just a few years earlier, Trixie and her cohorts are geniuses and their adventures are original as all hell, so I'll give them some credit for being actually, genuinely better than their contemporaries (except the Drew-Hardy collection...I never read the Bobbseys, so I'll leave their judgment to others), but I'm undecided whether achieving genuine mediocrity is better or worse than charming awfulness.
And the covers of those Girl Wonder, Girlfriend of Space Boy!
series-es were so much more fun.
The first time I read the first book it got me smitten with with this series.
My dad tried to download the whole bunch of the thirty-eight books but no luck!
Anyway, in this book Trixie Belden, the protagonist, and her millionaire best friend, Honey Wheeler find a mysterious diamond in the an old gatehouse,thus the title.
He seems suspicious only to Trixie, with the others scorning her when she tries to to talk to them.
They find two boot prints near the gatehouse too, which spooks them.
Read this fantastic mystery inducing, edge-of-your-seat tale of the gatehouse mystery.
Trixie and Honey discover an abandoned cottage covered in vines at the lower edge of the Wheeler estate.
The girls discover a large diamond stuck in the earth and decide to find out how it got there.
Two new men are hired at the Wheeler estate, a gardener and a chauffeur - Trixie doesn't like the chauffeur and Honey doesn't like the gardener, and they both suspect that they are the jewel thieves.
The Bob-White Club is formed and Honey is excited over earning her own money by doing mending for Mrs. Belden.
Everything ends well, and Trixie gets a horse of her own, Susie.
The 1st Trixie Belden book I read and I was hooked.
As with any of the books I enjoyed (and for the most part I'll be listing them at goodreads) I read and reread them.I was loaned copies of the Trixie Belden by a friend of the family.
I am glad that the new edition has the pictures again.
But I Really Dislike the cameo picture of Trixie on the cover.
Bleah.I tried to read books from the Nancy Drew series.
At the time, I thought it vastly inferior to the Trixie Belden series and Nancy vastly inferior to Trixie.
I loved these books when I was young.
If store carried books for any reason, I'd look for a Trixie Belden book.
And re-reading them now I'm only a little surprised by how much of the story, dialogue, and description I remember intact.One reason why I loved them so much is that Trixie seemed like a real person with good points and flaws.
13 years old.
So often children and teenagers seem more like adults in disguise.
("Beverly Hills, 90210" seemed a lot more like people in their late 20s who were mysteriously forced to drop by a high school every day.)I *still* want to be a member of the Bob-Whites, even now.
I first read this in the 70's when I was really into this series [my love for them never really died, hence the re-reads]. SO glad I get a chance to re-read them!!!~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Re-read~August 30, 2013I really enjoyed reading this one again. You get introduced [FINALLY] to Trixie's brother's and to some of the peripheral players that pop up time and again in the books. You also learn about diamonds and forgery and such! :-) Easy read that was a fun reminder of my days devouring these books when I was younger!!!
My first TB, and still my favorite. "That word grows on you," Trixie said. "Pretty soon, you'll be talking out of the corner of your mouth. Dip. It sounds better when you say Dick the Dip. Maybe he's one of your pickpockets." "Oh, undoubtedly," Mart said. "To be sure, to be sure. And he specializes in picking the pockets of fat little boys in playsuits." "Dick the Dick sounds better to me," Honey said with a giggle. "I'm sure he's a detective." "A G-man, no less", Trixie jeered. "It's well-known that they all look like weasels."
The third book in the Trixie Belden series. You get to know Trixie’s brothers in this one, and it adds an extra element to the different relationships between the characters. The boys can be a bit condescending at times, and I can’t blame Trixie too much for wanting to bop them in the nose.This reminded me of the bit more classic set up of the first book, with the girls finding clues and uncovering a mystery. It was fun trying to work out who was up to what with the new employees, and it was a good interesting storyline.
When Trixie and Honey find a diamond in the gatehouse on the Wheeler property, Trixie is certain that there is a thief around. Could it be one of the new Wheeler servants? We also get to meet Trixie's two older brothers and the five new friends form the Bob-Whites of the Glen. While the mystery isn't strong, the characters are great and this remains one of my favorites in the series.Read my full review at Carstairs Considers.
On rereading this book, it didn't seem quite as engaging as the first two books in the series, though I still love it and the characters.
I always prefered Trixie and friends to Nancy Drew while growing up as they seemed more "real" and down to earth.
During this reread I realized that this series is probably where I learned to love vocabulary words at a young age -- thank you, Mart Belden!
*g* I had forgotten how frequently he used big words in an effort to tease and frustrate younger sister Trixie, much as I sometimes use them now in an effort to antagonize certain friends.
Trixie and Honey fall into another mystery when they go down to the gatehouse and Bobby falls onto a diamond. He scrapes up his knee pretty good. And Trixie and Honey decide they're not going to tell anyone and explore the mystery themselves.It was such an innocent and lovely series. I can't wait to re-read more.
