https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/225066.Sex_and_The_Single_Girl
I read this eons ago, when I was in my late teens or early 20s, and I remember being impressed, gaining a lot of good advice from it.
But the rest of the book (200 pages) is filled with practical, timeless advice for living independently, both financially and emotionally.
Very good advice for anyone living on their own, no matter how old or how "girly" you are!Brown herself was no spoiled glamour girl.
I'm afraid the 1- and 2-star reviews here are from people who didn't actually read the book, or were so blinded by the audacity of the first two chapters that they seem more straightlaced than Brown's naysayers in 1962.
This woman's legacy is funding my career for the next few years, so I thought I should read her book.
The cover is appallingly pink.Written in 1962, this is a how-to guide for single women.
How to eat, dress, decorate your home, and mostly how to find a man.
Much of Helen's advice is for women to work toward Enchanting a man, getting gifts, controlling him with charm...
On the other hand, some of her advice still holds.
Get some exercise, eat a lot of protein, dress in a way that makes you feel good.
She is also pretty fun to read.
This is a load of rubbish... Is she serious or is it all a joke?
I was like who is Helen Gurley Brown and why haven't I ever heard of her: Well, I found out that she is a remarkable woman who was the editor in chief of Cosmopolitian magazine for 47 years up until 2012 when she passed(rest her dear soul).
She suggests going skiing alone;going to beach alone and making sure to get a strategic spot to tan with a very interesting towel(which will also serve as your baIt(a conversation starter); Sitting next to men on the plane, In Gurley's exact words: “ I don't have to tell you to be sure to sit next to a man.
Sex and the Single Girl is the woman's guide to life.
She talks about things like nutrition and the psychological benefits of makeup, about the value of making your home somewhere people - especially you - like to be, the necessity of starting at the bottom at a new job and working hard to reach the top.The message of the book also is that a woman has a right to be at the top, and that she is a perfectly valid person even if she is not married.
It affirms my view of the rights of women to have rich, full lives that include sex whether married or not.
This book was just down-right fun. It's shockingly advanced for the time and awfully dated at the same time, but it's the contrast that makes it so interesting. Helen Gurley Brown is the ultimate in kooky, fascinating old broads. Her opinions on homosexuals will make you squirm and her constant use of "girls" to address middle-aged woman will make you blush, but she would have been the life of any party and the woman anyone would just have to look up to. This is a historic artifact worth a read.
It was a very interesting read from a feminist/historical point of view.
On one hand, there is no denying that her book is about teaching "girls" (rarely does she use the word "women") about how to make themselves attractive to, and how to obtain, men (note--they're adults, not "boys").
Of course, Gurley Brown was a major career woman herself, both before and after her "late" marriage at the ripe old age of 37.
Still, it was interesting from a feminist/historical perspective for someone interested in the development of feminist thought and popular culture.
Following the death of HGB, I made an effort to seek out Sex and the Single Girl to get a fuller sense of the contribution she had made to women and feminism.
This book is full of feminist highs and lows, and it is actually quite difficult to pin HGB down within this.
Certainly the book might be challenging for a feminist reader, but it sure is fun too.A big part of me wants to do a Julie and Julia: 365 Days, 524 Recipes, 1 Tiny Apartment Kitchen-style blog and try out all the advice doled out by HGB.
Which makes you giggle and you find kinda fun until you actually read the book.I am not quite sure how much has changed from 2003 to today, July 9, 2011, but I am going to venture to say, "Not that much." Not enough to justify some of these amazing little tidbits.On married men, page 24: "It seems to me the solution is not to rule out married men but to keep them as pets.
You should hear the horrendous things she says about homosexuals; it's so embarrassing I refuse to even quote in jest on this blog.)On how to be man bait, page 63: "Carry a controversial book at all times--like Karl Marx' Das Kapital or Lady Chatterly's Lover.
What really makes the book great is the truth in Brown's common sense advice, her self-deprecating humor, and the light hand she uses to make what could easily be a tedious subject feel like a indulgence."Helen Gurley Brown" on Wikipedia: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Helen_Gu...In 1962, at the age of 40, her bestselling book Sex and the Single Girl was published.
During the decade of the 1960s she was an outspoken advocate of women's sexual freedom and sought to provide them with role-models and a guide in her magazine.
The sexual evolution was her calling card and this book was the first modern guide to living life.
Sex and the Single Girl is about being a modern woman seeking adventure and passion more than an MRS degree.
HGB dished it out with advice on being sexy, enjoying the night life, and enjoying sex without fear of pregnancy.The pill revolutionized gender relations and this book was pivotal in letting women know that the old school 1950s no longer existed.
While it may be dated now, any feminist ought to read this book as its impact on the lives of females is still being felt today.
I found it funny that this book was revolutionary for its time, but spent very little time actually talking about single woman having sex, techniques of enjoying it, etc.
Instead the author still seemed censored in how she discussed the issue.Instead the book was more of a single girl's guide to life-how to dress, wear make up, eat,etc.
A must read for feminists, educators who teach women's issues and history, and any girl who could still use some advice on how to be single.
Thinking of reading the revised edition from the 70's: Sex and the New Single Girl.
What a funny book.
I like how the whole point is that you don't have to get married in order to have a cool, worthwhile life!
Except let's spend a lot of time talking about how to acquire a man, and whether or not he might marry you.
The point of view is also shamelessly manipulative, cheerfully advocating use of feminine wiles to lure men for your personal and financial benefit, regardless of their marital status or other qualities.
On the one hand, it's refreshingly -different.- On the other hand, it's just another self-help manual of the day, preoccupied with men.
I decided to read this after hearing it mentioned several times on Mad Men. I was interested to learn what it was exactly that Helen Gurley Brown laid out that became such an inspiration to women of the 60s.
Suprisingly, I found much of it to be inspirational now, nearly 50 years later.
The book gets off to a great, up beat and at times hilarious start that carries on most of the way through.
I think maybe I was just ready to get out of the house and start putting some of Brown's advice to work!
All in all, a delightful read.
This book was just terrible.
When I got to "Chapter 4: How to be Sexy" I finally threw in the towel.
I had high hopes for it as the author was one of the first female copywriters in the industry, but that doesn't help disguise how truly outdated her writing is--the original printing of "Sex and The Single Girl" was in 1962.
Alas, from what little I ended up reading I'm reminded of how far working women have come and how THE PERFECT LIPSTICK SHADE won't determine if we get a raise or not.......Or does it?
A friend of mine recommended this book, and at the time it seemed interesting...so...I picked it up. It offers up some very outdated advice, but more importantly it's hilarious, all the while keeping the tone that you don't have to settle down and have a relationship to be "successful" and "happy" like some women seem to believe. It's empowering, tear jerking...make you want to call your best friends and sisters and mom.
For me, reading Sex and the Single Girl is like curling up next to a warm, crackling fire in the dead of winter. Helen Gurley Brown is the cool aunt, knowing big sister, and hip mom you never had. This book turned conventional thinking about gender roles on its head in the 1960s, true, but even now, whether you're married or single, 16 or 60, you'll come away with the feeling that life is supposed to be fun. We need more books like that in this world.
A fascinating look at the topic from its place in women's history. Ms. Brown's advice-giving style is charmingly candid and racy for its time, and some advice is still worthy of following. Ms. Dawn Harvey as narrator perfectly captures the author's wordly tone, making the book great fun to listen to!
Interesting book in terms of all the stuff single twentysomethings had to worry about fifty years ago, but so many references in this edition were too dated for the book to be useful to anyone now. And the title is misleading-given that this edition came out in 1962, there's no real amount about sex in it all- likely would've been labeled obscene and maybe even banned in some places if it did.
I have actually told a couple of friends already that I am lending them this book and that they HAVE to read it. It really puts things into perspective - your single years are the best of your life! Lots of advice on how to live them to the fullest, and don't bother rushing into a lifetime commitment...it happens when it happens. It has gotten rid of a lot of my anxiety about everything.
I like reading dated advice books like this for fun sometimes, and I wanted this to be more entertaining than it was. I did like that I could definitely see the influence on a show like Mad Men, though.
Totally fun to read if you don't take it seriously.
DIS IS TOO GUD BOOK
One-third creepy and outdated sexist nonsense, one-third tongue-in-cheek humor, and one-third good advice (even if you subtracted the man-catching aspects). I loved it.
This has to be a joke! Either she is stupid or the woman and men who believe in this are completely stupid!
Still relevant 40 years later
Part historical curiosity, part single girl therapy. Helen Gurley Brown is hilarious, and I have to admit that her advice on how to live your best, unmarried life was really comforting.
But since you're not finding somebody sooner as things stand, wouldn't it be better to stop driving...to stop fretting...to start recognizing what you have now?***Most importantly, a single woman, even if she is a file clerk, moves in the world of men.
It is written for girls who may not marry but who are not necessarily planning to join a nunnery.***Most importantly, a job gives a single woman something to be.
We're going over to meet my friends Jackie and Ernest." Naturally I wanted Jackie and Ernest to like me, so I got right into something slinky and black.
Women should have fulfilling lives that include careers, entertaining, hobbies, and a fun social life.Now in 2015 this advice is hardly earth-shattering, but in the pre-feminist days, when the Pill was in its infancy (yes, pun intended) and women thought college was a way to get an MRS degree, Gurley Brown’s outrageous talk was truly revolutionary.I picked up Sex and the Single Girl at my local library not knowing what to expect.
But today it offers pretty darn good advice that wouldn’t look out of place in any current lady mag or any self-help book endorsed by Oprah.Now, don’t get me wrong.
The real interest in this book would be take it in conjunction with Betty Friedan's The Feminine Mystique: both published around the same time (Sex & The Single Girl came out a year earlier and it's hard not to think The Feminine Mystique was written in response to it) and both the authors came from the world of woman's-interest magazine world.
Even to a level that might go against today's morals: HGB thinks the workplace is a great place to find men; your boss is probably a real catch (it's clear that most of the working women she addresses are low-level employees, it is 1962); and having an affair with a married man is tricky but not unjustified by any means.
