https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/13258.What_Was_She_Thinking_Notes_on_a_Scandal_
An unforgiving, cold-eyed, wickedly beautiful little book.
A warning: if you have ever been crushingly lonely -- particularly if you have, on occasion, feebly attempted to rationalize that loneliness as a burden of your superior and isolating intelligence -- then I suspect that you, like me, will feel personally filleted by certain passages in this book.Here's an example of Heller's brutally precise understanding of this manner of loneliness; what strikes me in this passage is how elegantly, how unsentimentally Heller limns Barbara Covett's outcast state:"It's always a disappointing business confronting my own reflection.
I always wonder, what must it be like to have a beautiful body?
Move over Stephen King, now this is scary shit.I'll admit, it's frightening that Sheba, a grown woman with children, can abandon her senses to the point of having a sexual affair with her 15 year old student, putting her whole privileged life at risk.
Even when the reader can see these consequences advancing as though in slow motion, we shield our eyes from the impending doom.But what really filled me with horror is Barbara, the prim, perfectly respectable older woman in the shadows, taking notes and keeping score.
She's the penny that keeps turning up.
4.5 Stars.This is so good!!Passion,Jealousy,Loneliness,Friendship,Forbidden relationship,Manipulation,And brilliant story telling.I watched the film years ago and the book is even better.  ‘I’m not sure I could categorize what this is. People always want to boil these things down, don’t they ? I want to recapture my lost youth. He wants experience. I’m forcing him into it. He’s forcing me into it. He feels sorry for me. I feel sorry for him… But it’s never that simple, is it?’  One woman's secre
One woman's secret,Is another woman's power....https://m.youtube.com/watch?v=yqHyge7...The synopsis might lead towards a forbidden love affair and that does happen but the story really is about Barbara.....Barbara is in her sixties,a history teacher.Never married,no children.She's about to develop a rather unhealthy fixation on a fellow teacher...Sheba is seemingly happily married,she's concentrated on raising her family but when she starts to feel desired again,she's powerless to resist and embarks on an affair with a 15yr old pupil.Barbara watches,and she waits,and she gets more and more infuriated as she thinks Sheba is not valuing their friendship.Was her fixation sexual?Other reviews have hinted at her being a Lesbian and the film definitely goes slightly in that direction but this book doesn't really explore her sexuality.....it's more of an obsession.She wants Sheba to only rely on her...I loved this story.There's nothing I like more than a forbidden relationship and it's consequences and this one is extremely well done.....My only negative was the end was ridiculously abrupt.

Although Steven is a victim, he is also predatory sexually assertive (like Lolita), and Sheba is prey to both him and Barbara (described as a succubus, by Sheba's husband).
See also John Banville's Ancient Light (my review is HERE), in which an aging man fondly remembers a teenage fling with a friend's mother.Who is the Power?Although the headline relationship is between Sheba and Steven, it is arguably that of Barbara and Sheba that is more twisted and exploitative.
Taut, cleverly written and gripping, Notes On A Scandal is a thought-provoking and disturbing book. Dealing with an illicit affair between a teacher and a student, the book is a great study of human nature. Heller wrote complex and intriguing characters, not at all likeable but still somewhat compelling. Notes On A Scandal is an addictive and chilling read and I highly recommend it.
I actually enjoyed this a lot more than i thought i would.Interesting being told from Barbara's point of view. But i really hated Barbara.
Zoe Heller also forces us to rethink what we consider moral and immoral and ask ourselves whether we can really patronize Sheba Hart for what she did.At the heart of the story is a theme of social deviance but there's also a tender love story at its core, albeit entirely one-sided.The story of the scandal is narrated from Barbara's point of view who scribbles down whatever she feels about Sheba and her life in her notes while occasionally giving the reader a glimpse into her own sad little existence.
Notes on a Scandal is an extremely sordid story, narrated by a totally unlikeable (and unreliable?) narrator – dealing with an illicit sexual affair between a frustrated middle-aged schoolteacher and a disadvantaged teenage student with learning difficulties.
That it makes a gripping read speaks volumes for Zoe Heller’s mastery of the written medium.Barbara Covett is a middle-aged spinster, a history teacher at St. George’s School in Archway, North London.
Barbara is aghast and advises her against it – but Sheba cannot stop, and the affair moves to its logical conclusion: the teacher in the dock for molesting an underage student.The narrative starts from this point: Sheba has already been arrested and is out on bail.
Glorious fun!The story is so much more than the surface scandal of the teacher and the student, which really just provides the backdrop.Written in diary form, the story-teller (a friend of the teacher's) is retelling the events of the past months, leading up to the present-day ending.
The diary-writer is a delicious character to unravel.
You love her, you feel for her, yet at times she creeps you out.
Are her reactions to the events in the story typical and human?
Or is she perhaps leaning a bit psychopathic?
This was so much fun to read, so hard to put down.
The only thing I can think is it must have been a short list and I’d already read the other choices (again, I sorta remember You being on it, but at this point my brain is my worst enemy so it probably just made that up so I’ll spend eternity wondering what other gems I missed).
The timing of What Was She Thinking ended up being pretty amazing since I first fell in love with Nutting thanks to the little trip she took me on to a town called Tampa  and maybe the cure to bring me out of my downward spiral of rejection when I discovered the plot for this book appeared to be another teacher/student tryst .
Even if you've seen the Judi Dench/Cate Blanchett film, you'll enjoy this savagely funny look at a lonely older schoolteacher, Barbara, who becomes obsessed with a younger colleague, Sheba, who in turn is obsessed with one of her younger students.Barbara's observations, especially about some of her fellow teachers, are brutally frank and read-aloud-to-your-best-friends funny.
Heller gets a lot in – a commentary about class (Heller herself was educated at Oxford), the nature of obsession, liberal bohemians – but she doesn't quite suggest enough about Barbara's inner life.
Still, Barbara is great company, and based on this I'd definitely read another Heller book.
And, it wasn't even the older woman/school boy thing; it was Barbara, the narrator.
Maybe because my copy had Judi Dench's cold eyed stare on the cover, but from first page to last, it was utterly unnerving.What saved this book from being a daytime made-for-TV movie was that it was told from the perspective of Barbara and not the teacher who has an affair with a pupil.
Barbara is this incredibly sinister, bitter, manipulative woman who is also viciously funny and makes for fabulous company.
Her witty observations, her cold envy, the repressed lesbian vibe...it's a Glenn-Close-Fatal-Attraction kind of brilliant.It was fascinating to read about the teacher Sheba and what drove her to such behavior.
Barbara tells us about her friendship with Sheba and about Sheba's relationship with a young student, who at 16 is a year younger than Sheba's daughter.The original title, What Was She Thinking?
In part, this seems to be because Barbara is more honest than Sheba.Heller does tackle the question of sex and how society looks at sex in this novel.
Is she a prude because she doesn't have sex like Sheba and all the students in the novel?
Her job is to simply get the reader to think.Heller goes further for it is hard, extremely hard, to see Sheba's student, Connelly, as a victim.
And she manages to do it all neatly and beautifully - there are no bloated metaphors or silly comparisons, only acute observations and layered themes.It's a story that's been done before, in many different forms - the student/teacher affair, the older man/woman preying on the vulnerable youth - but Notes on a Scandal takes this story and makes it better.
Instead of a scandalous account of the affair from the point of view of one of the participants, it is told by Barbara - the self-appointed narrator of Sheba's fall from grace.
This was one of the longest standing, unread members on my shelves and it feels like such an accomplishment to have now actually read it!As the title suggests, this novel is a compilation of the observations from Barbara Covett upon the scandalous affair between new teacher and friend, Sheba Hart, and one of their students.
Barbara's examination has much to tell the reader about both the scandal this focuses on, and also the lonely individual wielding the pen.I know many a reader with whom the score of unlikable characters would have been cause to set this novel down with distaste, but I loved this exploration into the villainous psyche.
Having seen the movie adaptation of this years ago, I wasn’t sure what to expect.
I had a distaste for both Sheba and Barbara from the film, so I expected to feel the same way about the book characters.
Turns out, this was only partially true.
I found myself entirely unsympathetic towards Sheba and her completely depraved self-absorption.
However, Barbara was a different story.
I was saddened by her inner dialog and felt she was deserving of pity.
She was in no way the cold, heartless snoop that was depicted in the film.
I would recommend this to anyone who loves a good scandal story.
This was an incredibly dark, gritty, realistic novel that perfectly portrays destructive behaviour and manipulative relationships.
The story is narrated by Barbara, an older secondary school History teacher, who becomes obsessed with a new Art teacher Sheba Hart.
However, Barbara's manipulative personality takes them to further dark places.This book was very well-written in that the characters, the situation, and how the storyline panned out was all incredibly realistic.
Barbara was a fantastic, deplorable narrator, who conversely you also can completely feel sorry for, and although the book isn't enjoyable to read, it is definitely entertaining.
This is definitely one of the best contemporary novels I've read in recent years.
The quality of writing is remarkable and the subject matter is truly fascinating (at least to me)."Notes on a Scandal" depicts a story of an affair between Sheba - a 40-year old married school teacher and her 15-year old student Steven as seen through the eyes of Sheba's elderly fellow teacher Barbara.
But the brilliance of this novel is that while this is Sheba's very personal story, it reveals more about Barbara's dark personality than it does about Sheba herself.
Read this before the movie was done. Read it during ski-ing holiday. Very well written, intriguing book.
People (including the author, Alissa Nutting) compared Tampa to both Lolita and American Psycho, so I decided to finally read both of those.
She wanted to prove that teen boys are just as much victims as teen girls are when it comes to statutory rape.
You know what, when I was in high school a teenage boy who sat right across from me in study hall attacked and raped an elderly woman in her own home, and his ass went to jail.
Some reviewers have assumed Barbara is sexually attracted to Sheba and wanting to date her, but they must've read a different book than I did.
Steven, like most teen boys, loses interest in Sheba.
It didn't matter whether it was sunny or not outside, the book kept me wrapped in perpetual gloom the whole time I read it.
Sheba Hart, around whom the story revolves has an uncanny capacity for talking low things and making them seem perfectly decent(no, not quoting anything here).
Every character in the story says or does something that only adds to the doom and gloom of the narrative, but amazingly that's what is so highly entertaining about this book.
The paragraph below was so brilliantly written and a few long-dormant butterflies in my stomach were stirred to life.(view spoiler)[People like Sheba think that they know what it's like to be lonely.
While the story is told in Barbara's diary, the scandal of which the title speaks is the sexual relationship between Sheba and Connolly, her pupil.
Not only is she a virgin 60 year old that has a vicious tongue, but she also makes Sheba become dependent on her in a very manipulative and subtle way, so much so that you get hints throughout the book, but by the end it's like Barbara took off her circus mask in the finale of her act only to reveal an even uglier face underneath.
Here's the crazy thing that happens in Zoe Heller's funny, crushing, brilliant Notes on a Scandal, and it's not the part where a teacher fucks her student.
Pretty, gauzy pottery teacher Sheba has an affair with her teenaged student, and there's your book.
It's narrated by a lonely old spinster named Barbara, who's been ignored on the sidelines all her life.
You think she's the fifth business - a sideline reporter, a bystander.
But here's the crazy thing: slowly but inexorably, Barbara takes over.
Halfway through, you realize that you're more interested in Barbara than the student-fucking.What Sheba is is pretty straightforward.
The story unfolds through the eyes of Barbara, a senior teacher of the same school as where Sheba teaches, and who has slowly but surely become an indispensable friend to Sheba.
Connelly, being younger and officially not yet an adult, escapes persecution, whereas Sheba loses her comfortable life and stature, and becomes totally dependent on Barbara for her survival.Barbara, through her monologue, slowly exposes her true nature...
A taut menacingly enticing book, this follows Barbara who has an unhealthy obsession with Sheba who is exposed having an illicit affair with a teen student from her school. A tightly crafted account from Barbara's retelling of Sheba's scandalous affair from her point of view, the plot takes a sinister turn when Barbara's obsession with Sheba turns nasty, I can't say more you'll just have to read it yourself...compelling, exciting and hard to put down!
My first time reading a book by Zoe Heller, and I know she has at least three works published.
Really smart book, the narrator (Barbara) decides to write an account of her friendship with a fellow school teacher ; the new art teacher Bathsheba or Sheba as she is known in the book.
Barbara's remarks and writing is so cutting and it discards flowery fleshy words, and go right to the bone of the matter.
Yet, at the same time she is sympathetic to her friend but she is fair to all i think.
Notes were written after the event – when affair has been discovered and Sheba (by now the subject of tabloid notoriety) has been forced out of her home and is soon due to face trial.Book is much more about Barbara – about her need for any form of meaningful relationship and her desire if she finds such a relationship to completely control it as well as her almost insane jealousy (her main problem with the affair is that it diverts Sheba’s attention from her).
Sheba, the new pottery teacher, mother of 2 teenagers, daughter of a famous economist, crush of the male staff at the school has an affair with her 16 year old student.
And you soon realise, the only character you end up not hating completely is Sheba (apart from Ben)!Barbara, the old spinster teacher and confidante of Sheba is the most terrifying of them all.
The book cannot get off by saying it's all about love, but the fall is not pretty and you end up sympathising with the fate of Sheba, who deserves better.There are multiple quote worthy lines on loneliness and media.
This is a very good book, and it was made into a fantastic movie.
The book is subtle and the character of Barbara falls somewhere in the gray area of good and evil.
In the movie, Barbara is as black as can be.
Sheba is much more sympathetic in the movie and not very much at all in the book.
The book is also very, very good but is a much slower build up, where the movie doesn't spare you any comfort.
