https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/35840657-heart-berries
Heart Berries by Terese Mailhot is an astounding memoir in essays. Here, is a wound. Here is need, naked and unapologetic. Here is a mountain woman, towering in words great and small. She writes of motherhood, loss, absence, want, suffering, love, mental illness, betrayal, and survival. She does this without blinking but to say she is fearless would be to miss the point. These essays are too intimate, too absorbing, too beautifully written, but never ever too much. What Mailhot has accomplished in this exquisite book is brilliance both raw and refined, testament.
You should have thought before you made a crazy Indian woman your lover. It took me a while to settle into the rhythm of Mailhot's writing in Heart Berries. It’s very poetic, dreamy and beautiful, though often fragmented and edging towards stream-of-consciousness in parts. It requires some patience and close attention - for, though short, this is not the easiest of reads - but it really does pay off.Heart Berries is a Native American woman's memoir written in short, hard-hitting essays. I'm not
It requires some patience and close attention - for, though short, this is not the easiest of reads - but it really does pay off.Heart Berries is a Native American woman's memoir written in short, hard-hitting essays.
It's one seriously brave memoir, stripping back layer after layer and exposing all the author's pain and struggles underneath - as a woman, as a Native woman, as a survivor of abuse, as someone who has dealt with manic depression, bipolar disorder, an eating disorder and self-harm.Heavy with metaphor and personal meditations, Mailhot's story is unveiled.
I don’t think I have the words.
I could not stop reading it: her language is hypnotic, her turn of phrase impressive, her emotional rawness painful.
This book does not follow conventions, Terese Mailhot tells her story the way she wants to and needs to.
I cannot wait to see what she does next.I have been reading and loving many memoirs the last few years, but this is definitely one of my favourites.
I tried to tell someone my story, but he thought it was a hustle.”You can find this review and other thoughts on books on my blog
I loved this memoir, then I didn’t.Mailhot is an indigenous woman with a traumatic past, and her heart-wrenching, raw story starts out as cool poetry.
But if I read the entire book again, I’m pretty sure the big magic would not return.
The book indeed lost its magic as a memoir, but I can swoon, if I let myself, over her many wowsy sentences.And then there were my expectations.
All my life, I’ve happily thought that ladybugs were the sweetest little things.
I will never think of ladybugs as cute little fellas again!!!
My full review, as well as my other thoughts on reading, can be found on my blog.
Written in terse and fragmented prose, the memoir consists of eleven essays that span a broad range of topics: motherhood and autonomy, mental breakdown and healing, trauma and memory, abuse and addiction, resistance and hope.
The nonchronological essays recall each other in affecting and stimulating ways, through interlocked narratives, leitmotifs, and shared images.
Mailhot’s writings on motherhood, family, and history are especially moving, and her memoir’s one of the best I’ve read this year.
A Canadian Indigenous woman wrote about her madness- The writing is poetic-a memoir in essays - but what she writes is devastating- gut wrenching.The writing looks the way it does ( unique- uncut- disjointed ), in my opinion because we are looking deep inside the mind of mental illness.
It’s a rare talent to expose the layers as deeply as Mailhot has.
Horrific things have happened to this woman: abuse, rape, etc.
Mailhot also looks at Indigenous women in the past and connects them to Indigenous women today.
You think weakness is a problem. I want to be torn apart by everything. If you’re a fan of the writing in books like Carmen Marie Machado’s Her Body and Other Parties and Roxane Gay’s Difficult Women, you’ll probably adore the writing throughout. For me, the writing didn’t quite work until the end - but then it did. I found the first half of this somewhat all over the place but then the stylism becomes more centered in the second half and better yet, the odd structure is the point. Can I just s
If you’re a fan of the writing in books like Carmen Marie Machado’s Her Body and Other Parties and Roxane Gay’s Difficult Women, you’ll probably adore the writing throughout.
It’s a wonderful use of unreliable narration, in which the memoir’s author isn’t consistent on her own thoughts either about herself or about her mental illness.
There were several moments in the first half that felt like too much romanticization of mental illness, but as the book continues, the book shows a subtle recognition of the biases of the author.
I will be following this author and if this intrigues you, I think you should too!!Blog | Goodreads | Twitter | Youtube
A dysfunctional upbringing on a reservation, and indeed Sherman Alexie provides a glowing recommendation.
Easily understood as Alexies own upbringing had some similarities with the author.
I wish I could have rated this higher, but it is no reflection on the contents of the book, but on the reader.
This is a difficult book to read, her thoughts jumping from one place to another, often made it hard for me to follow.
The main reason though is that this made me very uncomfortable, her thoughts often hitting the reader with her pain, and like Roxanne Gay, emotionally difficult to process.
Mailhot questions everything, and gives frank admission to the jaggedness of her nature, the passion and the yearning, the ugliness and the beauty and the desperate need, her complex and at times contradictory feelings about herself as a contemporary Native American woman and writer--pride and veneration warring with culturally induced shame and a rage against performance and trying to find an authentic way to be.For all its intensity, it is a quiet book, intimate as a confessional.
Terese Marie Mailhot makes many astute observations in Heart Berries, including how white people use self-esteem as "identity capitalism" and how Indian women are often viewed as inhuman.
The stream of consciousness style made me feel lost and disconnected from the events in her life.
It may be very intentional for the book not to make too much sense in the traditional way, and it may be that I have read too many memoirs written in a more conventional style to appreciate the craft in Heart Berries.
Still, I am grateful that Mailhot's memoir has made waves in the literary world, as indigenous women's voices are so often ignored and erased.
A book written  by the indigenous, for the indigenous,   Heart Berries  is a raw, heart-breaking and sobering memoir of what it means to grow up as a poor, abused, robbed of her own culture native American woman who suffers from depression. This is like no other memoir of the Native American (or First Nations) Experience, for the simple reason that it won't cater to your white-folks needs of painting indigenous culture with frills and sparkles, New Age and spiritual. The 21st century Native Expe
is a raw, heart-breaking and sobering memoir of what it means to grow up as a poor, abused, robbed of her own culture native American woman who suffers from depression.
This is like no other memoir of the Native American (or First Nations) Experience, for the simple reason that it won't cater to your white-folks needs of painting indigenous culture with frills and sparkles, New Age and spiritual.
The 21st century Native Experience is much different - and it is told the way it is.
Heart Berries And The Native American Experience
The author steps back from there and starts looking at memories of her childhood, which are also largely trauma narratives.I actually feel like I gained the most understanding about what the author was trying to do from the FAQ at the end, and it redeemed some of it for me.
A frustration that men think women's trauma narratives are "all the same," and she pointed out, this is only because the same things happen to women, repeatedly.
By refusing to write about another subject, she claims her history.
One example:"With you, things don't feel right sometimes.
The memoir follows Mailhot's childhood on an Indian reservation, the dysfunctional upbringing and relationship she had with her mother, her abusive father and explores her relationships with different men in her life- particularly one man named "Casey".
My own valley is closing in on me, I curl into walls, ashamed of my cowardice.""She knew women need their power honed early, before it's beaten out of them by the world" "If my security depends on a mans words or action, I've lost sight of my power"This book was the first book I have read by a First Nation author.
This slim memoir will blow your mind: Terese Marie Mailhot wrote a powerful, brutally honest book overflowing with poetic and inventive prose.
Large parts of the book show Mailhot meditating about the sources of her psychological troubles ("Trying to forget damaged me the most"), and the development of her relationship with her now-husband, writer Casey Gray.
This love story is no fairytale though - Mailhot spares no one, and the way she portrays power dynamics in relationships is intriguing.
The question of who holds power, who has got agency is present throughout the book, especially in regard to her abusive father ("I don't think I can forgive myself for my compassion").
You have to read s.l.o.w.l.y. to really appreciate the style, and she has these incredible one-liners that will just ZING you.
Those are all good, incredible things.But it just didn't come together.
It rambled and wound in and around itself, and meandered into the past and back to the present five times in the space of one page, and then did that over and over again.
So it is a beautiful book -- but not one that's close to being polished.
I would get pulled in and then her rambling would pull me right out again.
This story is yours, culprit of my pain. Which one of us is asking for mercy? Heart Berries is a memoir by the Salish writer Terese Marie Mailhot, told over eleven “fractured” essays. Growing up on Canada's West Coast, this could have been a sadly familiar-sounding Reserve-based childhood tale, but Mailhot is a writer with an edge and an MFA. Her “narrative” is beyond the ordinary (with an artist/activist mother whose correspondence with an American prisoner formed the basis for a Paul Simon pr
Like Salish art, her writing is “sparse and interested in space”; the essays in this book comprise only 130 small pages, but they contain a big life.
And that is what I find so chastening: the last thing I want to do is to excerpt the lovely bits – the romantic or poetic passages born of Mailhot's pain – in an effort to support my (bad) opinions about her (good) work.
It took me like a week to read this short book because it was so raw and painful.Also some of the essays were a bit disconnected so it was confusing sometimes.
“I was aware,” he writes, “within maybe three sentences that I was in the presence of a generational talent.” If that weren’t enough, in his blurb, he calls the book — centered on Mailhot’s coming of age on the Seabird Island Indian Reservation in British Columbia and later as a writer — “an Iliad for the indigenous,” invoking Homer’s classic saga.Although this slim and devastatingly calibrated memoir which features brief, impressionistic and carefully modulated essays tops out at 160 pages, “Heart Berries” truly does provoke the reader to reconsider what it means to be epic.
Find this and other Reviews at In Tori LexThe concise and powerful language used to describe the author's life in this book is amazing.
Mailhot connects her experiences in her Native American community with her approaches to understanding the world around her.
In this book the author is unapologetic ally herself and I could not stop reading.
The trauma and disturbing events in this book were intimate glimpses into the author's life that helped create a full picture.
Recommended for Readers Who-enjoy powerful stories about women -want to learn more about Native American experiences-appreciate lyrical, poetic and memorable prose
This might sound odd, but I love literary fiction, psychological thrillers, and memoirs all for the same reason: they are thought-provoking.
I love books that make you think.
HEART BERRIES, a memoir by Terese Marie Mailhot, is one such book.
It’s written in short impressionistic essays so it took a few pages for me to get into a rhythm, but at some point you find you’re almost finished with the book and wonder where the time went.I was swept up in Mailhot’s introspective, descriptive language and when it ended I wanted to learn more.
2.5 STARS - In this small book, Mailhot, a Canadian Indigenous woman, bravely shares her personal feelings and experiences which are often brutal, bleak and sometimes shocking.
She tells her story with a unique writing style that was like nothing I've ever read.
While I applaud Mailhot for bravely sharing her deeply personal experiences and thoughts as an Indigenous woman who struggles with mental illness, her identity and loss, her frantic, disjointed method of relaying her thoughts greatly diminished my understanding of her story and my overall enjoyment of this book.Disclaimer: This Advanced Reading Copy (ARC) was generously provided by the publisher in exchange for my honest review.
This was an artfully crafted memoir.
It was honest, strong, mournful, beautiful.
The book itself was small but the content heavy and big.
Terese Marie Mailhot has a way with words.
You can just FEEL them.
A statement she made I think really rings true to her book: "Crafting truth to be as bare as it feels (was important)".
This was a book that was being read in a Goodreads book club and I am not sure if I would have come upon it otherwise.
So, I am very thankful that this was chosen and that I was able to find and read it.
("[Mailhot] can be fatally attracted to a faux lyricism," as Parul Sehgal put it in her review for the Times.)These elements will bother some readers more than others.
Moreover, "faux lyricism" is an especial writing pet peeve of mine, and these factors combined made this work very frustrating for me particularly as a reader.
The aphoristic pronouncements are powerful – “We don’t own our bodies or our land,” “Indian girls can be forgotten so well they forget themselves,” “How could misfortune follow me so well, and why did I choose it every time?” – but the way imprecise scenes blend into each other makes it hard to find a story line in the murk of miserable circumstances.The title comes from the legend of the first medicine man; I think a better one would have been “Indian Condition” (the title of Chapters 1 and 10) or “Indian Sick” (Chapter 3), a spiritual possession that was the first documented illness.
Heart Berries was relentlessly interesting on an intellectual, emotional and stylistic level, and painful to read.
The way the plot moved and things got communicated was enigmatic and moving in a way that I find abstract visual art can be.
I think the book is really a lot like modern art, and that it pushed the forefront and boundaries of memoir.
On the emotional side, the narrator's internal and external struggles were so complicated that the book made me deeply thoughtful, and reading it in one weekend made me feel somewhat wrecked.
A deeply complex and interesting read.
This poetic memoir deconstructs Indigenous stereotypes, as Terese Marie Mailhot disrupts what her narrative should look like, re-imagining personal sovereignty on her own terms!
I am destroyed.
Interesting themes, but struggled with the writing.
But on the other hand, I had been prepared to fall in love with this book, so to speak, and I didn't.
So, while I absolutely appreciated the book as a whole and am grateful that Terese Mailhot has shared her story (one that is unapologetically indigenous and unapologetically female) with the world, I found it difficult to connect with it from a reader's perspective and was a bit 'disappointed' for lack of a much better word (I mean, how silly is it to say you're "disappointed" with someone's extremely personal memoir, right?).
This short memoir deals with a lot of pretty heavy stuff, including child abuse, mental illness, poverty, and the struggles of indigenous cultures. Despite the brutality of the topics, the language is richly poetic and gripping.
