https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/7389.Pride_and_Joy
I read Pride and Joy as part of a larger volume years ago, but what with my daughter wanting me to watch the tv show with her, I thought it was probably time to dust off the cobwebs and do a re-read.And, hey! This was still a cool story.The basic premise is that these kids discover their parents are supervillains when they stumble onto them ritualistically killing a young woman at their annual house party.They freak out and go on the run (<--because they're  runaways! ) together, trying to fi
This was still a cool story.The basic premise is that these kids discover their parents are supervillains when they stumble onto them ritualistically killing a young woman at their annual house party.They freak out and go on the run (<--because they're 
) together, trying to figure out who and what their parents are - while also discovering that they may not be as mundane as they had always believed.The tone is very anti-adult which I found slightly annoying (because I'm a totally cool and awesome adult), but considering this is a TEEN comic...?Eh. Whatcha gonna do?
Looking at the current economic and environmental state of the world, today’s youth may well raise the question: Have our parents secretly been the bad guys all along?When the six teenage protagonists of Runaways are forced to spend a few hours together during their parents’ annual charitable get-together, they are shocked to discover that the so-called charity work is merely cover-up for a criminal, downright evil organization called “The Pride,” and that their parents are, in plain fact, super-villains.
So there's this group of kids who grew up seeing each other occasionally while their rich parents discussed fundraisers and whatever else rich adults talk about privately.
That's the premise of this series, and of course, the kids discover their parents kept some big secrets from them about abilities and powers they never knew they had.I loved this.
What a great, fun start to a series about mutant teens who have to save the world...
It's hard to even pick a favorite character because they are all so cool, but Karolina, Nico, and Gert are up there.
The psychic velociraptor (Gert's new inherited pet) is pretty awesome too.
Original and interesting concept for a comic. I like all of the characters but I’m hoping there will be some character development as the story goes on. The illustrations are quite simple but I like them. I loved the colours used. I’m excited to see where this one goes.
Brian K Vaughan’s Runaways are similar in that the characters are made into superheroes through their parents - except they’re forced to step up and make that choice because their parents are supervillains trying to kill them!
I’m convinced if Vaughan were to write this today, he’d publish it via Image as his own independent superhero comic and it’d still work as perfectly.
It’s definitely my favourite of all Vaughan’s work for hire Marvel stuff, maybe because it doesn’t feel like a Marvel comic or that it tries something a little different and succeeds.
What would you do if you discover that your parents are super villains? And if, after that, you find out that yourself have powers? That's the premise of this history and let's be real,if you have a tons of teenagers for that plot it can be really awesome or a total disaster. In this case we have a incredible story.But, what is what make it so good? First, this isn't the typical superheroes comics. Yes, it shows the moment when discover their powers, or abilities or artefacts that let them fight
In this number we have two guys, Alex and Chase, the first one is super-smart, the second is super-funny and have a straing artefact to defense; the both have awesome personalities and are lovely in their own way...but i prefer Chase.The girls...oh Geez, i love these girls.
And Molly, like a little hulk without the green part.Aparently these guys isn't connected with the rest of Marvel Universe but ww have a lot of winks to other superheroes, and the way that are presented is super funny.
But if you like comics, good characters and funny and smart histories, you need to read this history, I freaking love it.
Cute premise, cute drawings, cute dinosaur. Occasional shocking violence. Fun combination!
Unos chicos adolescentes y una preadolescente con edades entre los 16 y 11 años se reunen una vez al año cuando sus padres , que a primera vista se ven muy disimilares, se juntan para reunir fondos para caridad.
En ningun momento se menciona que los chicos sean amigos, ellos ni siquiera quieren estar ahi, y de aburridos deciden espiar a sus padres y ven algo inesperado que cambia su vida.El que ellos se asusten es comprensible.
Bueno, llamen a la policia, pero muchas cosas que dice Alex en forma acertada acerca de las identidades de sus padres y continuas referencias a un 'ritual' (¿cuál?
How old is James Masters in the TV show adaptation from this cómic. Since 2002 when I fall in love with him for being Spike in Buffy.
This is pretty cool! It really is. The title accurately shows you what this is about. WHAT IT IS ABOUT? Runaways is about a group of teenagers who witnessed something they shouldn't have, and now, they are on the run. I don't want to spoil anything for you guys so I won't go into too much details about the plot. MY THOUGHTS - This story was about teenagers who acted like teenagers. I loved that they didn't act like they were older than they are. They made stupid, irrational decisions, like most
- This story was about teenagers who acted like teenagers.
It was so funny how much I related to it.- I liked the vibrant colors and illustrations.- There was a plot twist here that, while I liked it, was a bit problematic for me.
There were slower parts where I want more things to happened, then there were faster parts, which I enjoyed more.- It was a bit predictable.
The plot twist was something I have smelt way before the thing was revealed.- The characters (talking about the teenagers here) had their own distinct personality.
A fun read, but so far really preoccupied with setting up the plot.
At the very end of the first book, we've just gotten to the premise of the series: a group of teenagers discover that their parents are actually powerful supervillains and go on the run.
I do like that we don't get all of the answers about their parents, or about what the kids themselves are capable of, right away.
Her parents do seem to infantilize her to a slightly creepy degree, but I'm not sure if I'm supposed to read it as such or if I'm just supposed to think of them as protective parents.
Hey Book PeepsSo this graphic novel was in a Booktuber's TBR list and once it was described to have X-men vibes I was sold.
I also liked that the parents got air time in this graphic novel and they were not just side characters.
They were active participants in this storyline and even though I am confused on what their overall intentions are in this book, I think that they added a different element that you just don't see everyday in coming of age superhero graphic novels.
Well at least in my opinion:)I think if you want a light read about superheroes then I think this will be it.
Geweldige verhaallijn, prettig geschreven en goede graphics! Snel verder in vol. 2 ♡
Bullet Reviews:I've now got a fangirl crush on Brian K. Vaughan. What an amazing writer! Who hasn't imagined he or she was on the run from the parents? I love how this book takes one of my favorite plot devices - being on the run - and combines it with a great, diverse cast of likeable characters.I'm going to get poor from all the amazing comic book series I keep finding!
This book was amazing! It was funny, exciting, thrilling and the imaginative characters are totally unforgettable. Definitely worth reading. :)
en este tomo tenemos un relato de origen que sin dejar de lado la fantasía se siente natural, nada de adolescentes que de repente se cargan con la responsabilidad de salvar el mundo, nada de los típicos episodios iniciales de reclutamiento para crear un grupo de superheroes, simplemente es un grupo de chavales que se ven obligados a colaborar por las circunstancias y que van descubriendo juntos lo que sus padres les han estado ocultando desde que nacieron.El estilo de dibujo no es mi favorito estéticamente, un poco demasiado cartoon para mi gusto teniendo en cuenta que esto no deja de ser una serie de superhéroes, pero funciona bien en este cómic y narra bien la acción.
UGH! Why did I wait so long to read this awesome teen comic! All the characters are fantastic and the setup/plot is awesome. Kids versus their parents, what an interesting dynamic. LOVE IT! Must read!
3.5 stars This was pure fun and I didn't want to put it down once I started. Six kids discover their parents are supervillains and band together to fight against them. Perfect for teens but adults will enjoy this too. There's a twist at the end that makes you want to keep reading - so I'm starting Vol 2 tonight.  First impressions:Alex - I see potential in his super smarts. He also seems like the sensitive one.Nico - a cool goth girl, hooray! Chase - seems kind of dumb but I'll give him the bene
3.5 stars This was pure fun and I didn't want to put it down once I started.
There's a twist at the end that makes you want to keep reading - so I'm starting Vol 2 tonight.
Chase - seems kind of dumb but I'll give him the benefit of the doubt for nowKarolina - cute and hippyish and I'm pretty sure she's a lesbian, with a crush on NicoGertrude - so glad there's a snarky kid.
I could see her becoming a favorite.Molly - the pre-teen, sweet and very innocent compared to the other kids...The Velociraptor - I love the random dinosaur, made me chuckle
From later books but I love these
Patrick Rothfuss'un yorumunu görüp okumaya karar verdiğim "harika" bir çizgi romandı.Özellikle karakterlerin farklılığını çok beğendim:) 6 ana karakter de harikaydı bence.-Çizgi roman, 6 ergenin, ailelerinin "Pride" isimli bir gruba bağlı süper-kötüler olduğunu öğrenip birlikte ailelerinden kaçarak kendilerini ve dünyayı kurtarmaya çalışmalarını anlatıyor. En azından ilk cilt bu şekilde ilerliyor:) -Kitaptaki her karakterin farklı savaş taktikleri olması (çocukların hepsi mutant değil) özellikle hoşuma gitti. Her karakterin farklı bir kökeni ve farklı karakterleri var.-İlk cilt itibariyle seriye bayıldım. Zaten daha sonradan öğrendim ki, serinin yazarı/yaratıcısı, çok beğenilen "Saga" serisinin yazarıyla aynı kişi. Doğal olarak, bu seriden beklentim oldukça yüksek:)
10 July 2013This series would be excellent for anyone killing time waiting for the next Morning Glories to be released.
Granted, Runaways, Vol. 1: Pride and Joy is a bit more PG-13 and isn't nearly as gory, but hot damn is it fun!
As far as I'm concerned, that nullifies any issues.The art isn't particularly my favorite style as it is too cartoony for me, especially the cover.
Vaughan, I would have been guilty of judging a book by its cover and would never have picked it up.
Runaways, Vol. 1: Pride and Joy is highly entertaining and leaves me wanting more.
Thoroughly amused by the premise of this novel! It's real interesting to witness these young teens coming to terms with what they discover. But the tone definitely makes it seem a little young! Still curious as to what they plan to do.
76th book read in 2014.Number 17 out of 419 on my all time book list.Follow the link below to see my video review:https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IgkzP...
This was so GOOD and it's still different from the show, which definitely makes sense since it has been about 10 years since this came out :) Also definitely spoiling myself for the showThe kids are all very interesting and I really like how they interact with each other (but I think I also like the beginning of where they are more on the show), but it's very interesting to see them on their own and trying to deal what they have found outJust one thing, Molly seems younger than 11 in this right?!
Or do I just not remember how I was ten years ago??But really GREAT start and I'm really looking forward to read more :)
Unfortunately, I like the television show better. The characters in the graphic novel are not as strong or smart and can be annoying.
To see a preview of the art be sure to check out this review on my blog, Reading Robyn.A lot of people these days cringe when they hear the words "origin story" and I can't blame them.
Despite this though, I have always had a thing for origins, especially when something new finally comes along.Runaways has such an amazing story concept.
Six kids find out that their parents are part of a very evil looking secret society and it turns out they've been keeping all sorts of secrets from their children, from superpowers to murder.
I liked each of the teens and felt they all brought something important to the group dynamic.
Basically, this is the story of six teens who have known each other their whole lives.
But when they call the cops, their parents receive a report.
But what can they really do to make a difference and bring down their parents?Probably the only real issue I had with this one, was the yo-yo-ing of 11 yr.
old Molly character between acting like a capable member of her age group and a kindergartner.
All in all, really enjoyed this volume and am curious as to the direction the story is going.
What if teenagers found out their super rich yet boring parents were super villains and tried to turn them in?
The kids make a lot of pop culture references from 5-10 years back or more so you may have to look these up online or ignore it.What if teenagers found out their super rich yet boring parents were super villains and tried to turn them in?
The kids make a lot of pop culture references from 5-10 years back or more so you may have to look these up online or ignore it.
Good art, good story and in a world where superheroes are real why wouldn't it make sense that Super Villains are as well.What happens when villain's have babies and those babies grow up to be teenagers with a wavering sense of right and wrong but understand the value of good and evil?When parents are willing to kill their children, frame them for murder and give them pet raptors - it's a crazy mixed up world. With classic rock references, modern day references and an old movie or two it's gonna be a good series.
3.5/5 No soy muy fanática de los comics o novelas gráficas, es un formato de historia al que me cuesta acostumbrarme pero me alegra haberle dado una oportunidad a esta historia. El volúmen 1 definitivamente se siente como un volúmen fundacional pero tiene una premisa interesante, con personajes muy buenos, y quiero saber como continúa la historia porque el final fue muy bueno. Me gustan mucho los misterios que presentó y me dejó con ganas de saber más.
