https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/22698568-the-invasion-of-the-tearling
Favorite book I read this year
THIS WAS ONE OF THE BEST BOOKS/SERIES I HAVE EVER READ BEFORE!
I still have so many questions! I NEED to read the finale before the end of the year. Hold me to it.
LOVED IT!{insert weird fangirl noises here}This one has been on my radar since I read (and loved!) the first book last year.
Ok, I'm really going to try my hardest not to let anything slip, but if you're super-freaky about not knowing ANYTHING, then feel free to stop now.
Why's that, you ask?Well, I've read several books with this It-Looks-Like-Medieval-Times-But-There's-All-These-Hints-That-Really-Everything-Just-Collapsed-At-Some-Point-And-It's-Actually-Taking-Place-In-The-Distant-Future...thing.
By the end, I was totally freaking out on Lily's behalf!Kelsea still had that unyielding badass attitude that I loved in the first book.
UPDATE: 10-19-2016 THIS IS ON SALE ON KINDLE FOR $1.99 ! It doesn't say for how long though BLOODY HELL!Okay so I loved the hell out of this book and I was confused about certain things! Queen Kelsea takes a little walk on the dark side in this book, but that's okay, she's going to rock it. I just know it.... NEED NEXT BOOK!!!!! Everyone that has read the first book knows that Kelsea sees things. Well she sees a lot of things that have to do with the Crossing! Every damn time she went there and
BLOODY HELL!Okay so I loved the hell out of this book and I was confused about certain things!
Queen Kelsea takes a little walk on the dark side in this book, but that's okay, she's going to rock it.
Everyone that has read the first book knows that Kelsea sees things.
That stupid jerk Anders became the new Holy Father and he did some bad things to people.
I don't want to wait until next year for the new book!!
:( Gaaaahhhhhh, I want to know what is going on!
I loved the book regardless of my stupidity and I think the cover is awesome!
23 Feb. '15 blog | goodreadsDisclaimer: An advanced reader copy was provided by the publisher via Edelweiss in exchange for an honest review.As before, folks. Come prepared with fries and your favourite condiment. Long and bitter review up ahead.If ever I could use half-star ratings on goodreads, it would be now. Actual rating would be 2.5 but I decided to be generous and round up.I gave it a go, and it passed. Barely. Enough to convince me to read the third book once it's out? Absolutely. The
It effectively remains open as a miracle solve-all for indeed anything and everything until the author decides it inconvenient for her plot progression to use the necklace as an answer.(view spoiler)[Case in point: Kelsea's decisions towards the end of the book in her face-off with the enemy.
It seemed extremely out of character for her to make, which makes it painfully obvious that it's all a huge set-up and foreshadowing for the third book.(view spoiler)[Case in point: Kelsea's decision to release the shadow-man-thing, whom she knew for a fact to be a dangerous, lying, evil foe -- just to garner some possibly valuable information about the Red Queen's weakness.
Loved the first book but... this was a clusterfuck. In a really, really, Dali-trippy kind of way.Like, seriously, those flashbacks?! Migraine. MIGRAAAAAINE.Me, when I finished the book:Ugh, so disappointed.
“This, I think, is the crux of evil in this world, Majesty: those who feel entitled to whatever they want, whatever they can grab. Such people never ask themselves if they have the right. They consider no cost to anyone but themselves.”  To say that Invasion of the Tearling surprised me would be an understatement. After Queen of the Tearling, it was hard to imagine that the second book could be anything but samey. Yet, something made me request it… and found myself pleasantly, shockingly surpr
Yet, something made me request it… and found myself pleasantly, shockingly surprised.Invasion of the Tearling has a number of things going for it that its predecessor did not:→The heroine, Kelsea, has grown up.In the first book, she came across as shallow, selfish and incredibly naïve, and it took away a lot from the story.
How do people who live in a medieval era know about such things?→ It had an incredibly confusing storyline that made little to no sense at all.→ The interesting characters had as much originality as tea-stained teaspoons.→ Everyone wanted to kill Kelsea, but no one seemed to have a valid reason.→ There was body shaming, slut shaming, age shaming, gender shaming.
This book felt like it dragged way too much in some parts and I'm not a huge fan Kelsea seeing memories from the past.
I understand her necklace(s) is very powerful and helpful, but I just didn't enjoy this concept as much as I hoped.Yes, Kelsea can now see memories from a girl named Lily, who lived in pre-crossing America.
This book has many important and thought provoking topics that need more discussion in our world:-Women are not alive to just get married and bear their husband children.-Woman can be raped by their husbands.
Reread November 2016: flawless are always. Finally ready for FATE. #dyinggggFull video review: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5rfLM...This arc was sent to me from Harper in exchange for an honest review*-----------------------------First impressions: Five glorious stars - this was a fantastic sequel, maybe the best I've ever read. I wasn't sure how I was to like the new character and perspective that was added to this book but I LOVED it so much. This book outdid the first one and I am so excited for the third book!!!
The people hungered for violence, and suddenly Kelsea wanted, more than anything, to give it to them.”Her struggles felt poignantly real, the difficulty of her task exacerbated by the fact that in spite of being surrounded by people ready to help her and stand by her every step of the way, she basically is profoundly alone, and hopelessly isolated from everyone.
It wasn't even necessary to provide the full explanation now: I think that, for it to be realistic, an attempt on the characters' part to formulate some hypothesis would have sufficed, since what clashes here is the fact that they roll with it as if it were perfectly normal.•Also, why do Kelsea's features change so as to look like Lily's?
I liked this sequel a lot more than the first book!
The story is still a bit slow-moving with all of its descriptions, BUT it's absolutely nothing like the first book.
The pacing here worked a lot better for me and I finished the whole book in a day!The plot was more engaging and I absolutely adored the new characters of Aisa and Ewen so, so much.
Ewen is the adorable jailer who's not very bright but has the biggest heart that made the entire story 200% better.
I was expecting a bit more to be done with the Fetch, but I do like the idea of Pen + Kelsea.
Kelsea begins to have "fugues," where she goes into trances and appears to start seeing the past, pre-crossing.
Technology was huge, people had chips, machines and computers helped with housework, security, medicine, etc.We get to see an insurgent revolution through Lily's eyes and she becomes such an amazing heroine.
She comes into new abilities and is more isolated than ever.Although the book took a little bit to get going, it became a page-turner.
Review to come.August 7, 2017: The first two books are currently $1.99 on US Amazon!The Queen of the Tearling #1): 5 stars!
*4.15 SAPPHIRE STARS* “Even small gestures of kindness have the potential to reap enormous rewards. Only the shortsighted man believes otherwise.”  This book took me months to finish. I just couldn't seem to get into it, while I absolutely loved the first book in this series. (Although, after reading my review on that one, it appears that The Queen of the Tearling also took me quite some time to get into lol).A few days ago I made up my mind about finally pushing forward since the last book in t
I just couldn't seem to get into it, while I absolutely loved the first book in this series.
(Although, after reading my review on that one, it appears that The Queen of the Tearling also took me quite some time to get into lol).A few days ago I made up my mind about finally pushing forward since the last book in this trilogy gets published next month, and I read the remaining 300 pages of this book in 2 days...
The way everything came together nicely, kudos to Erika Johansen!Also, I love how this book doesn't involve a lot of romance.
The Invasion of the Tearling picked up where the last book left off.
The Mort army is invading the Tear because of the actions of Kelsea, their new queen.I won't say what exactly those actions were, in case you didn't read the last book.
The Mort would come, and the Tear army wouldn't be able to stop them.
These are real problems, and so for a time I've let the others lie." pg 208, ebook.Will she be able to save everybody?"And Kelsea wondered suddenly whether humanity ever actually changed.
Haters of Queen be damned because here in Invasion of the Tearling we begin to get some answers about the history of this world.
The point of view shifts back and forth between Queen Kelsea preparing for the invasion of her country, and Lily, a seemingly insignificant woman living in Pre-Crossing Connecticut.
I thought it was absolutely brilliant that we got to see the world of the Pre-Crossing, a place where America is pretty much a giant flippin’ mess.
She literally doesn’t give a F what anyone else thinks in this novel and it’s amazing.Iffy issues are not glossed over, and I admire Erika greatly for this.
What I liked - This book is mostly about the past and the people that contributed to the creation of the new society.
- We get to know more information about the red queen, specifically, her past which I enjoyed- We also got more information about the dark thing that can only be summoned through fire.
What I did not like - This book went back and forth between the past and present.
Like I said before, it was interesting to learn about the past, but it sometimes got boring.- I felt that the violence in this were sometimes too extra and unnecessary.
Am Anfang ist es mir wirklich unheimlich schwer gefallen, in das Buch hineinzukommen. Ab dem 2. drittel konnte ich das Buch allerdings nicht mehr aus der Hand legen und finde die Entwicklung der Geschichte wirklich super! Ich freue mich schon wahnsinnig auf den dritten Band und bin unheimlich froh, diesen bereits in meinem Regal stehen zu haben!
Band 2 hat mir besser gefallen als Band 1. Wo mir im ersten Teil noch Tempo und Plot fehlten brilliert Teil 2 mit gutem Pacing und einer spannenden Story. Man taucht noch viel mehr in die Welt ein und erfährt einige sehr interessante Hintergrundinfos und Zusammenhänge.Das größte Manko war in diesem Buch für mich einfach unsere Protagonistin. Kelsea war doch im ersten Band nicht so krass unsympathisch, oder?! Mann, die Alte ging mir etappenweise echt gehörig auf den Senkel. Nichtsdestotrotz ein starker zweiter Band der Trilogie, der Lust auf das große Finale macht! 👌🏻
Greaat! And I called EVERYTHING.
You don’t have the manpower to do both at once.”“People are more important than land.”Holy shit, this book may have taken me 57 years to read(okay, maybe 5 days) thanks to my lingering and unwanted flu, but this had me hooked from the very first page and I never wanted to put this down!THIS BOOK IS FUCKING GENIUSSomeone save my soul because I'm low key dying right now.I absolutely adored where this story was heading and the split stories between the past and present was just so damn good.Like holy shit that ending like what the fuccckkk.
I legitimately read that last sentence and felt utterly shooketh.I'm still having heart palpitations right now and my palms are still perspiring profusely.If you're yet to pick this book up, I highly suggest you do so, but please be mindful that this book depicts mental & physical abuse and rape.
The book hasn't even been written yet and here you have them: 5 idiots rating it.Dear GoodReads,We know you take an immodest amount of pleasure in deleting stuff concerning users' books and such, am I right?So, what's stopping you now?How would you like to start deleting people and fake ratings to prove your worth.Make us proud.
In The Invasion, Erika Johansen overcompensates by giving us two stories, one in Tearling, and one in a futuristic dystopian version of our own world.
We followed a simple forest girl as she turned into a sharp and honest queen, and then into a vain and powerful creature.
Finally, The Invasion of the Tearling wasn’t what I’d hoped it would be, but it deserves some credit for its originality and creativity in worldbuilding.
Not all is lost, the third book might bring us a once again changed Kelsea and a differently constructed narrative.
The scene in Father Tyler's room and afterwards was heart breaking..The brutality against him was just terrible.There is dual point of views from the past to the present, and ultimately by the end, you get to see both converge...During the Crossing was a time where the very wealthy held lands and built a massive wall to keep the poor out.
This book does not treat women well and I pretty much want to throw it at the wall every time.Even though there wasn't much development, and it took FOREVER to get to the end, I still liked the writing and how it gripped me to the last page.
gimme gimme gimme for all those who love this series --- if you don't like this series, Awkward Jaime sez BYE So for a while there I wasn't sold on Lily's connection to the main story from book number one (which totally holds up on a reread btw) but then shit went down and wow and Jonathan you badass and Aisa you and Arya would be besties and then MAJOR stuff happens and omg Pen and I have feels again and what are you DOING Kelsea and holy shit Red Queen is the worst but also kinda the best?
I'm suspending judgement as long as the little knife-girl and the deceptive-jailor have increased parts to play in the next novel, but they really didn't have much to do with the core of this book, except to prop up the recurring themes and main characters.
They grew on me as the novel progressed, but neither of them had more than an oblique touch on the main plot.The plot was a straight line, but there was a ton of consequence and a lot of character building.
Kelsea is going through an odd puberty, she is having visions of a lady from the past plus she is having all sorts of strange and dark desires awaken in her.
On top of all that, add the fact that the fate of an entire kingdom depends on her every move and we have a Queen on the edge.
She is trying to figure out how to repel the Red Queen and the Mort forces from the Tearling and save the Tear Kingdom.
Kelsea keeps getting pulled into Lily's mind and in doing so witnesses the beginnings of the world that she herself lives in many centuries later.
Gripping till the last page- 5 Stars Kelsea matures more in the second instalment if the Tearling series and we see her take quite the walk in the dark side.(view spoiler)[We also see her dive into the past before the Crossing to the POV of Lily.
At first I didn't enjoy reading about Lily.
I was too wrapped up in Kelsea's story and only wanted to get back to that but as Lily's story progressed her character grew in me immensely.
I was gutted when Johnathan didn't make it to the crossing.It intrigued me that both Rowland Fin and the Fetch had know each other in the past and had both been punished.
The Invasion of the Tearling doesn't suffer from this problem and is one of the best sequels I have read.One of the biggest issues with The Queen of the Tearling was the confusing world-building.
She was still coming in to her own in the first book, still getting used to being a queen, and now she just doesn't give a fuck and I love her for it.
Mace is still an excellent fatherly figure and I am now even more in love with Pen than I was in book one.
However, while I really enjoy the story and its creativity, I was slightly underwhelmed by this sequel, and that's because it undervalues the things that I loved about book one.
Another thing that I loved about book one was that even though it wasn't action-packed, it was hugely entertaining because it dealt with fascinating elements and characters, and everything played out very well.
This is an original fantasy story because it mixes two worlds in a beautiful way.
It's hard to know where things are going, and that definitely maintains my interest in the books and Kelsea's journey.
