https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/249205.Jules_et_Jim
Menage a QuatreAt the heart of this novel is a menage a trois between two men (Jules and Jim) and various successive women (Lucie and Kate).It's told in the third person, but I have a sneaking suspicion that Jules (view spoiler)[(no, Jim, no, Jules, no, Jim) (hide spoiler)] is the implied author. We get a fair amount of insight into each of the participants, which differentiates the novel from the likes of Henry Miller's  "Tropic of Cancer"  (which still occurs very much inside one or other of t
Each coupling is "tormented by love and jealousy...[or] love and indifference." When Kate returns from a secret night-time liaison with a boxer, "Jim thought of hitting her, but had neither the strength nor the will-power." (You have to wonder about the consequences had Jim either the strength or the will-power.) Kate, for her part, "wound up by saying that he [Jim] had made a fool of her, and that the only thing she wanted now was to get back to the tender, generous protection of Jules."CirclesBy about halfway through, the story seems to have exhausted its potential and starts to go around in circles.
She was a very special lady, God rest her soul.- I love hearing stories about you and Kathe, Grandpa.- Just promise me one thing, sweetheart.
Towards the end of the movie, the guy writes a novel called Julien et Jerôme, which he says explicitly is their story with the genders reversed.So, the implication is that Deux Anglaises Et Le Continent is the true story, and Roché himself is the psycho bitch.
Or maybe he's just messing with our minds the second time round, since the received wisdom appears to be that Jules et Jim IS in fact the autobiographical novel.
A sua volta, non si può tacere sul fatto che Henri-Pierre Roché, prima ancora di essere la mente del romanzo, era un dandy parigino, amante del collezionismo.
E siccome lui era il figo della situescion, inutile dire che lo si può riconoscere nel forte Jim.Messa così, l’origine della storia spiega anche quel tono didascalico del romanzo, che a molti può sembrare un po’-troppo-trattato-di-botanica, e che per chi ha visto il film, è inscindibile dalla voce di Nando Gazzolo, voce narrante della vicenda.Ma il punto è un altro.
Non la storia di una donna che ama due uomini, ma di due uomini che condividono tutto, dalla A di amante alla Z di zavorra (ché le storie così, qualche problemino collaterale lo creano sempre).
Jules, Jim and Kate seek to redefine love, as Truffaut states “When I read Jules et Jim, I had the feeling that I had before me an example of something the cinema had never manage to achieve: to show two men who love the same woman, in such a way that the public are unable to make an emotional choice between the characters, because they are made to love all three of them equally….a triangle of pure love.”Kate and Jim attempt to have a child; their attempts, however, are fruitless, although they are medically able to have children, their passionate relationship is ultimately barren.
My interest to read "Jules et Jim" was peaked after seeing Truffaut's film adaptation of the novel, a cult-classic made up of memorable moments unravelling at an awkward pace.
In the end, there is only so much to be said of the spontaneous outbursts of three friends who travel, love and live; and the book is captivating in another way, for its honesty.
It's a story of Bohemian Paris in the early part of the 20th-century, plenty of love (er, lust) and cigarettes and alcohol and free will.Kate, a German woman, enters the picture, especially striking Jules' fancy.
He initially asks Jim not to make any advances towards her, but ultimately Kate turns to Jim for the desire she is lacking with Jules.
There's an easy confusion between "weakness" and "free will" and the three central characters were clearly baffled by this.
I can not, for the life of me, figure out what was so damn appealing about Kate that everyone allowed her to treat them the way she did.
Ci ho pensato, e alla fine il responso è stato quattro stelle e per un unico motivo, aver già visto il capolavoro di Truffaut. Cosa dire di questo romanzo splendido se non che assomiglia ad un fiume, alla Senna? Imperdibile.
There was me thinking that back in the early twentieth century people were very uptight when it came to love, sex, and everything in between!Kate is the character that truly tests Jules and Jim. She is a firecracker, a woman akin to the two men in terms of her view and approach to life.
I found myself missing Jules as a character (although he seemed a bit silly at the start), and longing to be rid of Jim and his ridiculous feelings for Kate for just a few chapters!I fully intend on watching the film, as I'd love to see how this simple story was transferred to the screen.
I liked it.
In my eyes, Jules starts out as a pompous idiot but then matures into a man while the other two (Kate & Jim) remain blissfully ignorant children, completely prey to their wills and wants.Unlike a lot of books that I read, this one was easy for me to rate, I liked this book.
I didn't think it was amazing at all, and I don't understand how someone could, but I suppose we all have our own interpretations.It's worth pointing out that in Britain Henri-Pierre Roché is pretty unknown..I see a few Italian reviews here though, maybe it's studied in their schools.(this, like many other books I'll be reading in the coming weeks is part of my 'EuroFiction' module)Good, quick read.Why not give a chance, see what you think.
I'm rating this on memory. Read it years ago because I loved Truffaut's film. I enjoyed the book a lot then, but I should give it another reading.
Ma, bisogna dire che, se questo è un romanzo sull'amicizia, questo tema viene completamente perso di vista a partire dalla comparsa del personaggio di Kathe.
Oltretutto, proprio per questo motivo, non sono riuscita a provare empatia per nessuno dei personaggi, le cui azioni sono dettate semplicemente da un desiderio momentaneo; sembrano non riflettere su nulla, perdendosi in sofismi e sottigliezze espresse in forme eleganti che si rivelano essere solo aria fritta.Lo stile, molto particolare, a me non è dispiaciuto, ma i felici momenti di lirismo che lo valorizzano, con frasi brevi e poetiche, che sintetizzano un concetto più ampio, quasi in forma di aforisma, sono molto pochi.
Chiedo perdono perchè non conoscendo nulla della trama, ho sempre creduto che jules e jim fossero una lei e un lui....aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa scusassero tutti!!!!
mi sono vergognata emortificata alla lettura delle prime righe...Non so che dire del libro, forse avrei preferito di gran lunga il film, che ovviamente mi ripropongo di vedere, ma i personaggi...
sono così lontani dal mio modo di vedere la vita che se il romanzo fosse ambientato su di un pianeta assurdo non mi sembrerebbe irreale.
o si è di vedute infinatamente larghe o non si è per niente innamorati.Per me è inaccettabile una situazione, tutte le situazioni che vivono i protagonisti.
Jules, Kathe, Jim. Potrebbe essere riassunto in questo modo questo romanzo, ma in realtà è molto di più e se lo liquidassi in poche, semplici parole sarebbe un torto al suo autore.
Non è il classico triangolo d'amore, in cui due amici, Jules e Jim, appunto, si innamorano della stessa donna, ovvero Kathe, che "aveva il sorriso della statua dell'isola".
No, questa è una storia di amicizia, di due amici scrittori di cui non si sa nulla delle loro opere, ma molto delle loro donne nella Parigi bohémienne.
E' una storia in cui due amici condividono tutto, perfino la stessa donna, Kathe, senza rivalse né gelosie, né invidie nei confronti dell'altro.
Cheguei até 'Jules e Jim' como quase todos chegamos - pelo filme. Numa bonita edição da Relógio d'Água, em promoção na Feira do Livro, que por ter dado origem à obra cinematográfica de Truffaut desperta uma enorme curiosidade, conheci o mítico triângulo amoroso e a estranha amizade de Jim e Jules - com Kathe, sempre, pelo meio.emhttp://leiturasmarginais.blogspot.pt/...
Az első harmada élvezetes, a második és a harmadik harmada borzalmas, de azért nagyon érdekelt a végkifejlet, úgyhogy továbbolvastam és a végén a csattanó elég jó.
The story of Jules and Jim and Catherine was turned into one of Francois Truffaut's most beloved movies.
Its big, messy plot is set in Europe, during and after the first World War. A shy writer, Jules, becomes friends with Jim. They have various adventures with young women until they meet Catherine.
During the war, the two friends fight on opposite sides, and always think about the fact that they might come up against each other in battle.
After the war, the marriage between Jules and Catherine begins to wane, and forces of lust and love take over, leading to a bittersweet ending.
در صورت تمایل، جهت مشخصات فیلمی که بر اساس این کتاب ساخته شده است؛ میتوانید از لینک زیر استفاده بفرماییدhttp://www.imdb.com/title/tt0055032
در صورت تمایل، جهت مشخصات فیلمی که بر اساس این کتاب ساخته شده‌ است؛ می‌توانید از لینک زیر استفاده بفرماییدhttp://www.imdb.com/title/tt0055032
Jules et Jim sont amis et partagent tout, ce qui inclut les femmes ; le roman est donc le recueil d'une multitude de triangles, voire de losanges ou de pentagones...
Le livre est centré sur les relations de Jim, partagées ou non avec Jules, et l'auteur essaie d'en tirer des leçons sur l'Amour.
Mes problèmes majeurs avec ce livre : le style expéditif de narration, et surtout une misogynie crasse totalement exaspérante, qui m'a fait détester cette histoire (et qui rend les enseignements sur les sentiments, ou la vie en général, totalement caducs).
Seule "valeur ajoutée" à mon avis, ce roman représente un témoignage historique de l'époque, surtout de la façon dont les hommes et femmes menaient leur vie sentimentale.
Jules, Jim and Kathe are three friends who lead simultaneous lives.
Jules and Kathe marry, divorce then re-marry.
Jim and Kate are involved in an on-and-off relationship.
Jim has been involved with a young woman, Gilberte, for years.
Kathe is a beautiful and stylish, but also self-centered, woman.
(view spoiler)[Kathe dies as she lived, literally driving Jim and herself off a bridge and into the Seine.
And of course, Jules is left to bury his friends.
(hide spoiler)]Jules and Jim is written in a very dry style, although it could be the translation.
Ho terminato questo ascolto da qualche giorno, ma sinceramente mi stavo scordando di commentarlo...Ispirato alla vita reale di Roché, questo romanzo in odor di autobiografia rasenta il grottesco. Avrebbe dovuto trattarsi del racconto di un sentimento, o più sentimenti, liberi da qualsiasi imposizione sociale, ma ahimè al mio gusto è giunto come una improbabile accozzaglia di vicissitudini di due inetti senza spina dorsale tenuti alle briglie da una psicotica un po' tanto baldracca. Si può dire baldracca? Come possa essere stato osannato, sinceramente resta per me un mistero.
Three stars in my rating system is a mediocre book. Mediocre because it was so difficult to like any of the characters in the book. Not even like but give a slight damn about them at all. Jules blended in to a wallflower somewhere in the middle and I had hopes for him. Despite sharing the title with Jim (and so much more), his fading siluette was my biggest regret. Oh, these emotions... That weird love that is impossible to understand. All the love triangles and that artificial drama.To read if you're into sentimental nonsense drama involving sleeping around Europe.
Recensione basata su quest'edizione, ma ascoltando l'interpretazione dal programma radiofonico Rai "Ad alta voce". Dal 7 al 31 maggio 2018.La classe nella scrittura, è temo il solo elogio che ho.Mi sono sentita al festival del nichilismo più aspro... "Salvo io, salvo il mondo!".Le donne? Se possibile, peggio.Sono venuta a conoscenza di questo libro da Youtube.Sono ben lieta di non averci investito denaro. Altrimenti, ora ne sarei pentita.
I’ve owned a copy of this for years but have never given it my full attention. I’m very glad I finally did. Roché is able to say so much in so few words. The story unfurls at breakneck pace, but it is a tale of emotion and struggle between friends (and lovers). It is no wonder that, upon picking it up, Truffaut knew he would make a film of it.
Piacevolmente irritante.Un ritmo come di...appunti da sviluppare: A fa questo. B pensa che abbia fatto bene. C se ne ride.Poi però l’investigazione dei personaggi e lo sviluppo dei loro caratteri è arte pura.
Two men have a relationship with a woman.This was an unusual tale - it was quite interesting and evoked a different time. I couldn't help thinking that the characters could only live as they did because they had money.
This is my third read of this book-never a dull moment. Although not for everyone-definitely for the free of mind!
The sparing, simple prose of Jules et Jim, spilled across the pages in repetitive, subject-heavy sentences, is at first hard not to appreciate.
After an opening crescendo of bohemian love affairs, three characters emerge at the center of his autobiographical novel: Jim, his best and most committed friend Jules, and Kate, the long-standing subject of their mutual affection.
To be sure, there is great beauty in Roche’s spare prose and well drawn characters.
The intertwined lives of Jim, Jules, and Kate would be distinctly less possible after the war.
Very much,on a par with the famous film,which i have watched countless timres over the years..Will no doubt read this novel again soon if I get he chance and watch the film again tonight
After reading the blurb I thought, 'how odd, exploring a polyamorous relationship in the early 1900's' odd it was indeed.The characterisation was beautiful.
I must admit on a slightly negative note, Kate and Jim's relationship becomes tedious to read towards the end of the novel, the repetitive outbursts are predictable and leaves the reader feeling irritable in this constant cycle of tortured love.
Although I suppose this is intentional, I did find myself skipping over the more predictable parts of their turbulent relationship.
All in all, a great rainy day read, with a unusually simplistic yet ultimately effective writing style and complex relationships throughout.
I was expecting that with Jules et Jim, but what I got was three people playing at the idea of love, enjoying the drama and causing chaos, because that is what they think love is.
Don't get me wrong, I understand, that for some people that is their idea of love, especially for the character, Kate, she revels in being the queen bee between Jules and Jim and is wilfully destructive when this is threatened.
The only character I grew to love was Jules and they way he had resigned himself to be on the sidelines, because he had had enough and this silent submission to Kate and Jim was the only deeply loving action of the book.
