https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/243707.A_Sense_of_Where_You_Are
Disappointingly fawning, I half-expected to see Bill Bradley’s mother and father as co-writers.Bill Bradley’s Princeton years were undoubtedly filled with supreme basketball and academic success so I wasn’t expecting any type of exposé but the superlatives were heaped on too heavily for my liking.This is better suited for YA readers.
I just found my old paperback copy of this book. While in high school, I admired Bill Bradley's basketball playing at Princeton a great deal. As a result, I bought this book soon after it came about. This is a good luck at the career of Bradley at Princeton University. Literately written and a fascinating character study. . . .
You can tell this is early McPhew. It has the same calm, conversational teaching voice, but it's missing some of the smoothness and gravitas of his other work. There's also a few uncomfortable passages about how "athletic" (e.g., black?) players are changing basketball for the worse, but on the whole a good read.
I can't exactly say how I came to hear the two of them recommend this book, but when Robert Greene and Paul Graham both say something is good, I don't need to be told a third time.
The title comes from a Bill Bradley quote about his hook shot, about how after enough of them his feel for the game was so good that he didn't need to look to see where he was on the court.
Having read most of the research behind Gladwell's Outliers I'm surprised I haven't seen more use of Bradley as an example since he is undoubtedly proof of the concept of deliberative, expert practice.

I finished A Sense of Where You Are last night. It was a fantastic book and an outstanding story. Bill Bradley lived out a story that every athlete hopes upon, especially to go out on such a positive note. I finished the book and immediately watched Youtube videos of Bradley.I enjoyed McPhee’s writing style. He’s straightforward, light, metered. There’s an easy rhythm to his words.I recommend it for sports fans, but also fans of creative non-fiction for the beautiful writing.
Great portrait of a player through his own eyes. Bill Bradley was a unique player and man and John McPhee capturing some of those moments in action made this book relevant. I think I learned more about the game of basketball from this book than any other source.
I have no interest in basketball whatsoever, but this book kept me hooked. I'm trying to read all of John McPhee's books this year, and this was a wonderful start.
This is where I began my strong interest in and respect for John McPhee's writing. He paints a lyrical portrait of young Bill Bradley that piqued my interest in more of his writing.
Read this book because the author is well-known to be a writing ninja. I was duly impressed. The writing is very clean. The story always kept moving and was interesting.
There is no way McPhee, writing in the past, could have framed the revolutionary nature of LeBron's, Jordan's, Magic's, or Curry's stardom but nonetheless a modern reading like mine will have those narratives and stories in mind.
McPhee also drifts a little bit into the classic trap of writing about white athletes - assuming that they're the smartest ones in the game and win on intelligence and hard work over natural athleticism.
I do not appreciate this mindset that you're allowed to control the universe just because you're driven to do so.
A good primer on John McPhee. Also, basketballAfter reading McPhee’s excellent collection of essays, Draft No. 4, I wanted to read some of his oeuvre. Since I have also become hopelessly addicted to the Golden State Warriors, I started with this book about Bill Bradley and basketball.I was not disappointed. His portrayal of Bradley is reverent and heartwarming. And his insights into the magical art of elite basketball are illuminating and inspiring. If you like great writing, stories about amazing people, and basketball, then this is a book for you.Highly recommended.
I wanted to hear more about his transition from basketball to politics.
A really great story, well told, about Bill Bradley as a college basketball player, but you can see the man he will become in there.
Nice book, a junior high kid might enjoy it, written in 1965, catalogues the career of Bill Bradley.
uncomfortably idolatrous, but a good statement about what heroism looks like for new yorker-reading society. +1 for being so cleanly written.
I've had my dad's copy of this book for many years, but couldn't remember whether or not I'd read it all the way through. Enjoyed it quite a bit and learned a lot about basketball.
Hard not to like the young Bill Bradley when viewed through the lens of John McPhee. Apart from the biographical narrative, it's also a well-written mid-century sports story.
As a complement to Rick Telander’s marvelous “Heaven is a Playground,” a memoir about the summer Telander spent coaching a pick-up team of black youth in Brooklyn’s projects, I turned to John McPhee’s 1963 classic “A Sense of Where You Are: Bill Bradley At Princeton”.These are two basketball stories.
McPhee’s great talent here is to move the camera around from the close-up of the subject, to the coaches record of what happened, to the audience, to the opposition players.Bradley is double-teamed.
McPhee's overwrought descriptions of Bill Bradley playing basketball -- and of him practicing basketball -- worked for me here in a way that bored me when McPhee gave similar treatment of rock formations or whatever didn't in his other books.
There are some strange aspects to McPhee's actual basketball analysis.
He seems never to have considered that Bradley's tendency to foul out at the end of close games might actually be a shortcoming.
There's also an uncomfortable dose of the old "the game's too flashy nowadays but here's a white guy who plays it right".
After that defeat he left politics, but he maintains an active public life, as he has written six nonfiction books and hosts a weekly radio program.John McPhee grew up in Princeton, as his father served as the physician for the university's athletic department.
McPhee attended a game with his father, followed Bradley over his career at Princeton, and wrote his first book about him, in 1965.A Sense of Where You Are describes Bradley's upbringing in Missouri, and his basketball career at Princeton, including his work ethic and approach to the game, which was far beyond even the best players at his level and allowed him to surpass his modest physical abilities.
I'm not sure that a book-length treatment was entirely necessary; the New Yorker article is more or less reprinted in its entirety as one of the chapters, and I think it gets McPhee's point -that Bradley is an impressive human being- across just fine.
Because A Sense of Where You Are was published in 1965, Bradley hadn't yet finished up at Oxford, played basketball professionally, or become a U.S. Senator.
As it is, Bradley's future career as professional basketball player and U.S. Senator are mentioned briefly in an updated epilogue.Finally, I found McPhee's writing to be completely neutral.
He becomes a 3-time All-American and the 3rd highest scorer in NCAA history and while playing with teammates of limited ability, he leads them to the 1965 Final Four, where he scores a NCAA record 58 points, re-writing the record books.
He plays 10 years with the New York Knicks, wins 2 championships, and gets inducted into the basketball hall of fame and becomes a U.S. Senator and 2000 Presidential candidate.That alone makes for a great story.
The book is written for those who know little about basketball, which took away from my reading experience.
Read it because Bradley is an athlete from a different mold, but understand that the book could have been so much more.
Every now and then, I'll read a book, watch a movie, or see a youtube clip of Tim Tebow taking a handicapped girl as his date to a formal event that legitimately makes me want to be a better man.
I guess this is probably because McPhee is a sportswriter by nature, so the book reads more like an long article than like a typical biography.
This is probably just due to the fact that basketball has changed so much in the past 50 years, so the basketball I grew up watching and playing was different from the basketball of Bradley's day.
John McPhee originally published this book in 1965, though the version I read, published in 1999, includes a new forward and photos (oddly tacked on to the end) of Bill Bradley's years on the Knicks and in the senate.
A dusty, monochromatic, unabashedly fawning account of Bradley's basketball career at Princeton - which this book is - sounds like a recipe for literary disaster.
I suspect it would be difficult to write this book today without devoting chapters to socioeconomic issues like race, class, privilege, and identity (see e.g., ESPN's terrific 30:30 on Christian Laettner's years at Duke).
McPhee can really write.
In many ways, this reads like a eulogy for idealized image of the "student athlete." Simply put, Bill Bradley was everything that major athletic universities would love to think that their athletes are.
Heck, Bradley was what any university president would love to point to as the ideal student.
He also expresses what I can only describe as great admiration for Bradley's dedication to his studies.
But that does not take away from a crisp succinct narrative of a couple years in the life of an admirable figure.
a great account of bill bradley in what may be perhaps his best forum, though possibly the one for which he is least known.
mcphee's first work follows bradley's senior year/ season at princeton.
bradley must be the greatest student-athlete of all time and this book accounts the incredible dedication, resolve, and work that made it possible.
by all means, he seems to have had as perfect as a year as one could have.
such struggles would ultimately prove bradley more perfect in his ability to overcome them, but mcphee does not expose them.
Sure did like this book about Bill Bradley who played at Princeton while I was growing up there.
Through detailed description, McPhee captures not just the training and techniques that made Bradley such an extraordinary athlete, but also the self-discipline and strong sense of where he was that made him such a charismatic figure.
Although he did end up running for US President, Bradley never really lived up to all the predictions that he would somehow become the next great statesman after Harry Truman from Missouri.
best book about growing up as a gifted athlete who has skills and ambitions loftier than those of most top athletes. mcphee's description of game sequences is unrivalled, and he captures his character's most emblematic features in mundane moments. one unforgettable scene. bradley is practicing jump shots in the gym as mcphee observes. he's missing shot after shot. he tells mcphee that the height of the basket is a half-inch off of regulation. bradley adjusts, and sinks shot after shot. later, mcphee returns to the gym with a tape measure. sure enough, the basket is off by about a half-inch.
A detailed history of Bill Bradley's basketball career at Princeton University in the early 1960s.
Though suspiciously laudatory, it provided some useful technical insights on the game from a players perspective.
The main part of the book was first published in 1965, but this edition has addenda from 1978 and 1999 with photographs of Bradley's NBA career with the New York Knickerbockers and his political career as a United States Senator from New Jersey.
I learned of this book through a tribute to author McPhee's birthday in Garrison Keillor's Writer's Almanac, and after reading this book have added his numerous other books to my reading list.
