https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/30223025-dread-nation
this book inspired me to start going to the gym because I've realized that at this rate if zombies arrived, I would be truly, absolutely, unequivocally FUCKED
I shrug. “My momma always said the best way to get what you want from people is to give them what they think they want. Sometimes you have to live down to people’s expectations, Kate. If you can do that, you’ll get much further in life.” Honestly, black zombie hunters in the Reconstruction era is definitely the best historical fiction concept of all time. And the fact that this totally, completely lived up to my hopes?  Even better.  I think this is a book action fans are going to enjoy. Dread
Also, she's established quite clearly as ace-aro without the terminology being used, which: A+.Besides the nonstop action and the character work, the best thing about this book is probably 
As several comments on negative or mediocre reviews of this book seem to imply that people only like this book because they respect the author, I want to clarify that at least for me, 
But either way, you are all going to love this.**I actually do want to note that the author tweeted something recently that seemed to imply Asian people are white, which was very odd, and then didn't really clarify and instead doubled down??
The Zombie Survival Guide book recommends cardio), I can pretty much outrun anything you can imagine.
The premise is that there's a zombie apocalypse but the US has pretty much recovered, the cities are safe.
Zombies (here called shamblers) are still wandering around, and blah blah something Act passed and now our half-black heroine, Jane is at a finishing school of sorts where one learns to kill zombies and become a fancy Attendant to white ladies.
She is an incredibly strong, confident character.And speaking of biases, Katherine another girl at the finishing school, who is initially Jane's rival.
This is what i'm envisioning after every zombie slay.
3 Stars  "It's a cruel, cruel world. And the people are the worst part." I just want to preface this review by saying I think this book is extremely important. It's historical fiction with zombies, sure, but it also centers on a very strong, biracial woman. I can't speak for the representation as a whole, but I will say I loved how unapologetic Jane is.Taking place in an alternate US where zombies rose up during the Civil War, this takes a long hard look at institutionalized racism. Jane is a st
There's also great ace and bi representationBut as amazing as these discussions were-- and as much fun as the zombie slaying was, the plot is a mess.
(Side note: I loved how smart and intuitive Jane was, but she also somehow seems to correctly guess everything??)Jane's letters back home are intriguing and tell a completely different story in-between chapters-- but it adds up to set-up for three separate stories Sadly to me, so much of this build up led to a tiny (and kind of random) conclusion.
I honest to god was so excited to read this book.
that’s a CONCEPT.
a really really great concept but I truly truly cannot support someone who implies that Asian women like myself...
are not women of color.
I’m really sad to be taking this off my TBR but someone saying that Asians aren’t people of color makes me sick, and it’s even worse when someone I respect[ed] says that.read this book if you want!!
it’s certainly an important book in YA.
but I truly cannot make myself read this[I won’t be giving anyone info on what happened since it’s draining, and I would link you to what went down, but unfortunately, it’s all been deleted]
I was today years old when I found out that this book exists.
Our trio lives and trains in Baltimore and their only future of becoming personal bodyguards for “rich white folks” is not something they are looking forward to until they are abducted and forced to fight zombies in the new hope for America-Kansas.Dread Nation is what I like to call a book that has all bones and no meat.
Post Civil War America is different than what we know because of zombies so there needs to be some solid world building BUT because this book is written in first person where Jane talks to the reader, the entire world is info dumped.
This book is fucking badass.
Yes, there are zombies, but there are also young girls trying their damndest to survive in a world that doesn't want them.
This book is just as important as The Hate U Give and Dear Martin.
We like to romanticize the past and the old west, but need constant reminders about the ways that things haven't changed at all.
It's an examination of America, old and new, and the idea that perhaps humanity is worse than a plague of zombies.Jane is someone I want to see slay the undead, but someone I also want to see protected above all.
When the dead rise from the battlefield of Gettysburg, the Civil War is called off and to help fight a new war, the Negro and Native Reeducation Act requires qualified children to attend combat schools to slay the shamblers.
I made it to page 64 before abandoning this novel, which is squarely aimed at pre-teenagers and commits the one sin I can't forgive in a book: It's boring.A sample:While Miss Preston's is housed in an old university, it ain't the same university as where we're going.
Ireland seems to be writing Young Adult first, Civil War revision second and horror somewhere much further down the list.
I sort of felt falsely advertised though, because a lot of the buzz from this book came from the fact that it had an aro-ace (aromantic, asexual) main character, but it actually wasn't Jane who was aro-ace but Katherine.
Throughout the book, it's pretty clear that Jane exhibited a lot of physical and emotional attraction to a few of the male characters.Then again, I'm not sure if aro-ace people are still able to experience sexual or emotional attraction, so if anyone more well-versed in the subject, or if any of you actually are aro-ace yourself, then I implore you to educate me on this.
I enjoyed this book for a while cause I grew attached to Jane, but other than that I wasn't all that invested in anything else.
"Her voice is deep, and she sings a fine baritone in church. She's the tallest of us here, big and dark and imposing with arms like John Henry. That's how Jane describes her best friend and how the author pretty much describes anyone who isn't light skinned. The colorism in this book disgusted me. Besides that, the story is stagnant and the characters are never developed. Let's dive into this dumpster fire, shall we?Plot: There isn't one. I'm not kidding. Any goals Jane had were never acted upo
I didn't care about them which made the book that much more unbearable to read.Jane: She's okay.
(view spoiler)[Her revealing her interest in girls at the end of the story.
That white people don't like her and colored girls are jealous of her.
A book for girls of color and yet all 3 of the main characters are biracial.
I skimmed the last 100 pages and I'll be looking at the spoilers for Dread Nation #2 on goodreads because I have no interest in continuing along with these characters for another book.
Her good fortune runs out when she and her class rival Katherine, along with runaway Red Jack, uncover an illegal scheme by the city’s mayor and are shipped off to Summerland – a frontier enclave in Kansas that promises to restore white Christian supremacy to America and treats its Black and Native American militia little better than chuck for the meat grinder.Many of the story elements that make dystopian YA fiction popular are also staples of the western genre – love triangles between characters from different classes, lone heroes standing up to injustice, landscapes defined by violence and industrial transformation – so the familiar elements are a comfortable fit in Ireland’s reformulation.
I don't think anyone here would ever imply that there was any benefit at all to children being put into the Residential School system.I realize that Ireland's main story centres on the experience of oppression and legacy of slavery for black Americans, but I felt like the whole experience of native people was somewhat subsumed unfairly into that narrative.Probably if I hadn't read the author's notes this wouldn't have bothered me, but from what I have heard about her, she is one of those authors who feel strongly that black authors can speak most effectively about the black experience of oppression.
Ironically I felt that by explicitly modelling the Residential School she co-opted an important story the consequences of which even today, native survivors of the system still live with.But, that said, I had a hard time putting this book down, and it was an emotional ride for me.
2.5 stars It’s a cruel, cruel world. And the people are the worst part. Now I really liked this book up to a point and the concept is original. It also explores racism in an original way. And damn, did it outrage me at certain points. But it also inspired me to learn more. (Mainly about what the author's note refers to at the end - the real life boarding schools Native American children were sent to to learn to be "civilized").Here we have an alternate history America where the Civil War ended w
In an attempt to solve the problem (because the Army isn't a match for zombies), the Native and Negro Reeducation Act is put in place and schools like Miss Preston's School of Combat for Negro Girls started popping up to teach students how to put down the dead.In the novel, zombies are referred to as shamblers.
Getting hired as an Attendant is Jane's main concern until they begin to realize families from Baltimore County are going missing.
And this is on top of my problem with the world-building.Now the best part of this book is the exploration of racism.
Just wow.
I am so impressed with this novel.
Dread Nation is a mosh posh of all the best things in life: zombies, hardcore heroines, BISEXUALS, and some superb snarkiness.
Every single character matters.
Every single line is important.
Jane McKeene is a badass lady.
She is relatable, smart, strong, and somehow kept her shit together when everything went down.
Something that is worth pointing out is how the chapters would begin with bits of correspondence between Jane and her mother.
This was so touching and how it related with what was going on currently was just so good!
I am also quietly(loudly) shipping Jane + Kate.
Dread Nation #1 by Justina Ireland is a book I found from the library.
Our main character is a gal born from a rich white plantation last while the Lord of the major had been gone fighting in the Civil War. Our gal came out black and was almost killed by the midwife but saved by your auntie.
When she is old enough she is sent to mandatory "Negro" schools to learn to fight them.
This is a very exciting and frustrating book.
I had a love/hate relationship with this book!
Absolutely stunning. This will absolutely be one of my top 5 favorite books of the year.
honestly, i was beyond excited about this book because  queer black girls who fight zombies?
i'd be throwing my money at the author by now but i literally cannot support someone who implies that asian women like myself...
it's 2018 and i'm tired of hearing this because believe me it's been said a lot before.
however, if you want to know what went down you can pm me.]that being said, i'm not attacking my friends for reading/enjoying it either!
i won't deny that this book is definitely important because of the representation it brings to the table, but i won't be picking it up.
2.5 stars (an extra 0.5 star for Katherine)Strong elements outweighed by weak plot.I wasn’t even going to read it (zombies are so 5 years ago and I am so over them!), but then I saw 6 starred reviews - and succumbed to my curiosity.
But then it all is abandoned in favor of a lackluster Wild West story line that cursorily touches on slavery and fully indulges in Bible-thumper/racist white men /brothel madam caricatures, at the same time failing to sufficiently develop the zombie threat.
Jane McKeene is attending Miss Preston’s School of Combat in Baltimore, funded by Congress after the Negro and Native Reeducation Act was put in place.
After the Great Discord, the US Army needs more help to provide protection of privileged families and citizens from shamblers (zombies), and these schools will put forth the help and aid needed.
At a local lecture she is attending, the professor want to try out a new medical procedure that will put other innocent people in harm’s way.
At the beginning of each chapter there is a personal letter or note she or her mother writes…..and NEVER receives.
Dying for book two, and I didn't even know there was going to be a sequel when I picked this up.
I love the choice of sickles for Jane's weapons.I don't even know what to say about the overall story because I don't want to give anything away other than to say YOU SHOULD DEFINITELY READ THIS BOOK.
I have questions about where these characters are going to end up!fancast note: I don't really have ideas nailed down for many people, but if anyone has watched that AMC show Hell on Wheels, I kept picturing a certain creepy preacher-ish someone as the pastor in the latter portion of the book.
The Fountain Pen Diva has long harbored a marked aversion to genre fiction novels about American chattel slavery ever since the "romance" I read decades ago in which the author depicted slavery as not that bad, complete with docile, happy slaves singing in the fields overseen by "benevolent" masters and mistresses.
Dread Nation gave me the same feels that the Greatest Of All Time goddess of sci-fi Octavia Butler did when I first read Kindred.
Dread Nation, despite the fact that it's horror fantasy, is still OUR story to tell.
Kind of like real life.Dread Nation isn't necessarily horror because of the zombies.
But leaving all that aside, I just loved this book, because at the end of the day it was a damn good story.Set during American Reconstruction Era, Dread Nation stars Jane McKeene, a bi-racial young woman who was born just in time to witness the dead rise up and walk the earth, putting an unexpected halt to the conflict between the North and South.
While her novel may be an alternate history set to a backdrop of an undead apocalypse, Justina Ireland succeeds in showing that, even in a world overrun with hordes of mindless flesh-eating zombies, society is still divided, and her characters continue to live under the effects of prejudice and oppression.But of course, a good book for me also has to be more than just a message.
• bloody brilliant• adored the characters so much• literally crying because there's an incredible aroace character!! and a bi female protagonist. in a histfic 🙌😭• just adored it
I adored the alternate historical setting and the in-depth look at institutionalised racism and how it impacts our society by implying that certain people are inferior because of the colour of their skin.
In the time of this book, POCs were seen as inferior and stupid.
This book really shines a light on this racism and the impact it can have on society.
Kate was a great character too because even though her and Jane were different, they were both strong in their own ways.
I need more of this world and Jane McKeene in my life.
First off, before anything else, if you called yourself a feminist and don’t see this cover and go ‘gimme’ you are not a true feminist. Woman, that cover. Whoever designed it – props. Major props and hopefully a large raise.  I first noticed this title last year because of the cover. It popped up on my GR feed. I don’t normally read much in the way of zombie titles –for a variety of reasons – but this looked awesome, though for some reason I thought the main character was going to West Point or
At first blush, Ireland’s book looks like a mash up of Huck Finn with Michonne from the Walking Dead (though the main character Jane uses sickles).
All the girls at the school are black because the government has mandated that all blacks and Native Americans (I’m being polite, Ireland uses the correct term for the 1880s, coming from a white man) be sent to schools to learn how to kill the undead (slavery is supposedly illegal but Jim Crow and Reconstruction exist).
⭐⭐⭐⭐⭐Five humongous stars! This book was so incredible. You have the girls who are just trying to survive in an unjust world while also being the front line fighters against zombie like creatures. Jane and Kate were so amusing to read about and amazingly well written and deep characters. There is so much more to this book than just being a zombie book so I hope people take more from it than that. My quick and simple overall: this book was beyond entertaining. It was thought invoking and you just
⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️Five humongous stars!
This book was so incredible.
You have the girls who are just trying to survive in an unjust world while also being the front line fighters against zombie like creatures.
Jane and Kate were so amusing to read about and amazingly well written and deep characters.
There is so much more to this book than just being a zombie book so I hope people take more from it than that.
My quick and simple overall: this book was beyond entertaining.
It was thought invoking and you just don’t take that away from a lot of fantasy books nowadays.
I love Historical Fiction, add to that African American Historical Fiction and I'm sold.Justina Ireland took one the most dark and terrifying times in history Reconstruction and made it even more terrifying by adding zombies.
Justina Ireland wrote an fantasy-laced alternate history book that speaks to America's Original Sin racism.Dread Nation is fun, original, badass, and intelligent.
Our heroine Jane is sassy, sarcastic, impulsive and she kicks both zombie and redneck ass.I did deduct half a star for the genre turn it took about 200 pages in but other than that I highly recommend this book.Hooked On Books September Read A ThonAround the Year in 52 Books: An alternate history book 2018 Badass Books Reading Challenge: A book you've put off reading 2018 Book Riot Read Harder Challenge: A western
zombies!This review (https://www.tor.com/2018/04/03/book-r...) does a pretty good job summing up my feelings, except that The Underground Railroad by Colson Whitehead (my favorite book of the last decade) should be mentioned whenever Dread Nation is discussed.
Writing for slightly different audiences, both Ireland and Whitehead tell the history of the mid-19th century slant in such a brilliant way that readers will see both the realities of that time period and our own with new, horrifying clarity.Now putting on my history nerd hat: I must admit that I struggled a little bit with a few instances of anachronistic language.
This is not historical fiction - this is speculative fiction set in a historical time period.
