https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1415483.Bodies_in_a_Bookshop
Further to this you should also know that I like to watch CSI (Vegas and NY but never Miami - I would never get bored of punching Horatio Kane in the face) and laugh at the murders all the while singing along to the theme tune but substituting the words of the theme tune "who are you, who who?" with "Faaaaake science, Fake FAKE!!".But, I was suckered in by the mere title of this book and didn't even stop to find out what it was about (admittedly the title itself is a pretty good descriptor) before signing up to receive this on bookcrossing.com.Do I regret reading this?
Never heard of the author or his detective series (this isn’t book one, but it reads as a standalone), but love, love bibliomysteries, so this one intrigued me.
This is basically a standard premise of a genius eccentric detective (actually professor of botany with a knack for detecting) and his more conventionally normal and less gifted sidekick, who assist a not so talented inspector in solving crimes.
The novel is narrated (prototypically as the form demands) by the sidekick, a man who, much like the author and probably everyone reading this review, has an ardent passion for books.
“The trouble with bookshops is that they are as bad as pubs.”“You start with one and then you drift to another, and before you know where you are on a gigantic book-binge.”People were smarter in the old days.
And by old days, I mean the 1940s.
Their investigation leads them from the dustiest, cramped corners of bookshops across London to the well-appointed drawing rooms of the well to do.
I saw that I would have no complacent Bathsheba…”When interviewing a recalcitrant bookseller: “Mr. Charles Hume was about as voiceless as the giraffe.
A mystery and a bookshop?
Campbell is another author who wrote detective novels at the time of WWII.
Ruthven Cambell Todd was a Scottish-born poet, scholar, art critc, and fantasy novelist who turned his hand to a series of detective novels under the pen name R.
At the time Dover came out with the reprint of Bodies in a Bookshop, his detective novels were nearly impossible to find.And what a treat this reprint is.
The play between the professor, the protesting Boyle, and skeptical, world-weary Bishop is entertaining in itself.
It also contains some of my all-time favorite quotes about bookshops and books.
A thoroughly enjoyable vintage mystery read.
In 1946 London, the Bodies in a Bookshop pile up while a would-be Sherlock Holmes tries to find the killer.Allan Leslie is a bookseller.
When he is found murdered in a locked room with another victim, thriller reader and amateur detective Professor Stubbs and his assistant Max Boyle are on the case.
Mr. Leslie was into unsavory pursuits like porn and stolen property.
Also, what was the connection between him and the other victim, Cecil Baird?It is hard not to laugh at the frequent allusions to book buying being as addictive as alcoholism.
The book was written in 1946 London and the atmosphere of relief from wartime fears is palpable.
This is my second book by R.T. Campbell (you can read my review of Unholy Dying here), and a gift from Joan @ Planet Joan!
The story is told by Max and he is very drool and serious compared to Stubbs flamboyant personality.
As in the first book Stubbs car, a Bentley, is almost a character and his driving is outrageous.
We managed to negotiate Hyde Park Corner and finally found ourselves in the King's Road.This mystery was extra special as it was set in a bookshop and a quite smart book theft ring was uncovered in the solving of the murders.
Bishop of Scotland Yard -- who in turn coaxes Professor John Stubbs, a rotund old Scottish botanist and amateur criminologist, to lend his assistance.
After forty years, Bodies in a Bookshop is as exuberantly readable as ever, a welcome and refreshing relief from so many of today's flat and colorless mystery puzzles."~~back coverThis book wasn't much of a treat for me, and the only thing that moved at "top speed" was Stubbs driving his Bentley hell bent for leather, to the peril of passengers and pedestrians.The plot was turgid, as was much of the writing.
I received a copy of this book, free, through Goodread Giveaways.How is it that I’ve never discovered these Professor John Stubbs mysteries before?
The mystery is presented through the eyes of Max Boyle, “abnormally tall and thin and ...
a face that looks as though there had been some prenatal influence from one of the less handsome gargoyles on Notre Dame.” (p 30) He works for and lives in the house of John Stubbs, a botanist, who “enjoyed taking things to pieces.
he is rather better at taking them to pieces than ...
Great characters, clever mystery, lots of fun.
This is a delightful, fun romp that follows an unusual trio of crime busters.
Max Boyle is proper, studious, and a dedicated bibliophile.
His landlord and occasional employer, Professor John Stubbs, is a rotund man who loves his pipe, beer, and amateur sleuthing.
Rounding out the trio is Chief Inspector Reginald Bishop of Scotland Yard.
The adventures start when Boyle visits one of his favorite bookstores and finds two bodies in a back room.
Thus begins an engaging tale of rare books, illicit "art" drawings, blackmail, and more deaths.This book was published in 1946 and reflects the London of that era.
Written in 1946, I found this book to be a good mystery but needed to remember when it was written. I enjoyed reading a hard-boiled mystery for a change. I received a copy from NetGalley and this is my honest opinion.
Dated & with fairly odd language. Characters are well drawn & mystery is pretty good, though I did figure it out.
Pleasant and enjoyable way to pass a few hours.
I the end though, it read more as a sub-par knock off of a John Dickson Carr novel.
Max Boyle, the amateur sleuth in the book is very reminiscent of Carr's detective Sir Humphrey Merrivale ...
Speaking of the dialog, all of Boyle's speech in this book (and only his) is written in a phonetic dialect that I found rather tiresome ...
There are frequent attempts at the same kind of humor you find in Carr's Merrivale novels, including a liberal sprinkling of slapstick, though it never comes off as well as under Carr's hand.The mystery itself is OK, and the author certainly plays fair, laying all the clues out in the open for close readers, while doing a skillful job of hiding them amid other details.
I wouldn't have guessed that Todd/Campbell's Bodies in a Bookshop was written in 1946.
The Professor might be Todd himself, gruff and hasty, brilliant and multi-talented - a Scottish Nero Wolfe perhaps with Max Boyle as Archie Goodwin.
This edition published as a 1984 Dover reprint at $3.95.
"We have made every effort to make this the best book possible.
Pages are sewn in signatures, in the method traditionally used for the best books, and will not drop out, as often happens with paperbacks held together with glue.
This is a permanent book." Wow!
Talk about pride of publishing!

Note to self: Don't read this book just before going to bed, because it will give you nightmares about bodies...in a bookshop.It's quite ironic that the main character pokes around in an old musty bookshop to find obscure books, when this mystery novel itself was found in an old used bookstore. They don't make Dover books like they used to. I normally don't read detective novels, but it's a good read. I found the ending to be a surprise, but very plausible.
"In addition the murder of Baird along with him, considered as a fortuitous action, had been the cause of our running around looking into innumerable mares' nests and smelling after uncounted red-herrings. In fact, we had, it seemed to me, been dancing up a lot of garden-paths and barking up may wrong trees. If I kept on at this rate I felt I would mix enough metaphors to make a verbal haggis."A lil haggis is good for you now and then.
I have always enjoyed mysteries and crime novels. It's always fun to try and guess who the murderer is and this one didn't disappoint. I like it better than the Agatha Christie ones where I can never ever guess it right. But this doesn't mean that it was easy to guess. It was just that it had perhaps more clues than the others while at the same time still quite intriguing.
Botanist Professor John Stubbs gabbles his way through a double murder discovered by his assistant Max in a grubby London bookshop. As a tangled web of pornography, stolen rare books, and blackmail emerges from the investigation, Chief Inspector Bishop and Stubbs attempt to close in a on a killer whose motivations remain unclear.Full review to follow.
Well, Dover Books calls it a forgotten classic, but I rather think it's been forgotten because it's far from a classic...while the author attempted to approximate Chesterton's Father Brown or Doyle's Sherlock Holmes, it was far from those lofty heights. A curiosity, nothing more.
For my full review click on the link below:https://crossexaminingcrime.wordpress...
A slim English mystery, an enjoyable quick read with quirky characters and a bit of pathos at the end.
The Professor is just my kind of amateur detective (1946.) Read mostly for atmoshere.
enjoyable atmosphere.
Bodies in a Bookshop was one of very few mysteries written by Scottish-born poet and fantasy novelist Ruthven Campbell Todd. A locked room mystery gives the reader a good read.
This is my favorite of the Prof. Stubbs mysteries. Max is one of the best "Watson" characters. Great characterization. Fun witty writing. Murder. What more do you want?
A good old-fashioned murder mystery. I loved the characters and their interaction with each other. A nice gentle read.
