https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/25837341-the-good-neighbor
Every woman who lived next door to our main character was literally the world's most beautiful woman, and each successful in their own way.
JOHNNY is perfect and leaves newspapers strewn on the counter, and cooks, and leaves crumbs under his chair, but knows that his wife's favorite foods are challah bread and...
fucking I don't know, she lost me at challah bread.
The author can't make up her mind, but doesn't have the guts to go full on bad-guy, because you know, then she - I mean the main character, who is totally not author wish fulfillment material - wouldn't have a man, and remember all those beautiful women?
I get that Banner tried to have a character do a Rebecca-esque 180 on us in The Good Neighbor, but unsurprisingly, it's a flop: the the bad guy is only mildly surprising, and the “big reveal” happens for no reason, with no twist, just because the book has to end somewhere.
A good editor would have explained to Banner that any attempt to write like du Maurier is bound to fail, and would have had her rewrite the ending.
Not the worst book I've ever read, but a far cry from the 'suspense fiction' it's being called. There was nothing new here, very predictable and uninspired.The protagonist comes across as insecure and needy, the antagonist is just boring. It reads quick at just 200 pages, which is its saving grace, or this would have been a DNF.~ I should note that I just got done reading two killer 5 star books, so maybe this book never stood a chance in the first place. ARC from NetGalley
Lightweight mystery about some bad things happening to beautiful people in an upscale neighborhood. As a psychological suspense tale, it never even came within shouting distance of the genre. On the upside, the pacing was good and the price was fair. Fast and free, respectively.This was a Kindle First offering for the month of August.
Get it?") Through the entire novel, I kept wondering why I was supposed to care about this flat, boring woman.
What kind of cell phone gives you a dial tone?
She is kept in the hospital for several days for a concussion.
Most people are lucky (or unlucky depending on your perspective) to be kept just overnight for a concussion.
The book ends with one of the side stories completely unresolved, and the main character just kind of shrugs it off.
There was no excuse to not flush the story out to completion, although by the end, I was very happy it was so short.
2.5 but will round it up the 3 as I did enjoy the first half of the book.This started of strong.
and that ending!!From the book blurb."A.
J. Banner illuminates the darkest corners of the human heart with her stories of suspense."Now, I read a lot of Suspense books but this one fell short for me.
Honestly, I cannot believe that this is a Top 100 seller on Amazon.I just felt that towards the end she was throwing everything but the kitchen sink into the storyline.As I said, it started off strong but it ended on a fizzle, not a bang for me.
This was okay. Nothing too thrilling or tense. I think it was a bit formulaic. Wife starts to doubt husband, break up, make up. Nosy neighbors spreading rumors. Add one psycho.
Sarah and her husband Johnny have a perfect life together.
Sarah and Johnny have to move away to a new house and slowly try to move on, but Sarah feels that something is wrong.
Soon she doesn't know what to believe, is their marriage at risk, or is she being paranoid?This is a fast-paced book with short chapters.
I just felt that, unless there will be a sequel was it left way too open.But in the end, did I find The Good Neighbor to be a good mystery book.
I was listening to it, so I thought maybe it was the narration, so I read a few pages.Nope, wasn't the narration it was the book, alright.
If you want to read Desperate Housewives, but a slower, duller version then do go ahead and try.
My suggestion is to read the sample chapters and if you like those, go for it.
I've given it 2 stars, because it's not the worst book I've read and doesn't have spelling or grammatical mistakes.My friend Mayra didn't mind it: https://www.goodreads.com/review/show...and my other friend Beth really enjoyed it: https://www.goodreads.com/review/show...
Main character is a children's book author.
Blah blah barf...Actually, the author missed a golden opportunity when she made Hubs a dermatologist instead of a plastic surgeon who corrects cleft palates in third world countries.
Just sayin'.Later, Main Character is the only one in the neighborhood who can climb up a ladder to save a neighbor's child.
The author felt the need to bring his loyalty to Main Character into question every opportunity she got.
Barf barf blech barf barf.While babysitting young four year old Mia (she of the burned up house next door) Main Character spots a strange dog in her front yard.
This book was kind of dumb. But it takes place in a town where everyone is beautiful, seriously, everyone is described as beautiful looking in one way or another. (view spoiler)[except for the person who set the fire, he's not described as so handsome it hurts (view spoiler)[one character is described as so handsome it is confusing why he isn't married (hide spoiler)], but the mastermind behind the crime is a beautiful woman, so it's not like only ugly people can commit crimes (hide spoiler)]I was probably not the right audience for the book.
Two stars to me means that this book is just ok. This book reads like a Lifetime movie Lifetime movie have their place..everyone watches one once, at least, right? What's with this author and the towhees? Swear, she mentioned them four separate times. These are the kind of things I noticed. I read this book in an afternoon. A summer read on my vacation. I had read reviews, alluding to a shocking ending. Meh, not so shocking.
They live in Johnny's lovely home, have great friends and good neighbours.
But one night when Johnny is away at a conference Sarah is awoken by a loud explosion, and her nightmare begins......As she picks up the pieces after the tragedy, Sarah discovers a shocking secret, one that will cause her to re-evaluate her whole life and the people she loves.This is a great read, and I believe a first novel for this author.
I will be looking for more from AJ Banner.Thank you to NetGalley and Lake Union Publishing for an ARC of the Good Neighbor in exchange for an honest and unbiased review.
A swift-paced psychological thriller that I really enjoyed. Coming out soon! Don't miss this one.
This is a lightweight mystery that had potential it didn’t fulfill.
It wasn’t bad—it had its moments.
Sarah Phoenix is in love with her new husband, Dr. Johnny McDonald.
I liked the twist ending.
However, once the scoundrel was revealed, the dialogue between Sarah and the mastermind of villainy reminded me of the literary equivalent of a cartoon villain tugging at his mustache while cackling diabolically after tying the damsel in distress to a railroad track—it just had this inauthentic quality to it.
Maybe I just like more literary suspense/mystery/thrillers.For more of my reviews, please visit: http://www.theresaalan.net/blog
The description for this book sounded really appealing, but as suspense fiction or a psychological thriller it sadly disappointed.It failed to evoke any emotions whatsoever. I didn't care for any of the shallow characters, and the psychological suspense I was expecting was sadly missing.The revelation of the antagonist came out of nowhere and was a "REALLY???? That's it?"-moment. The ending was so predictable, it was laughable.On the positive side, it was fast paced and a very short book.Thank you to the publisher for providing me with a complimentary copy via NetGalley in exchange for an unbiased review.
What I Liked:*The Good Neighbor was one of those books that immediately sucked me in and kept me entertained until the end.
This is a well done, suspenseful, mystery/thriller with lots of twists and turns that keep the reader constantly guessing up until the shocking and rather startling finale.
If you like a quick paced thriller that will keep you turning the pages, this is one to grab.
This comes in at two hundred pages, so it is easily a book you can pick up and read in a couple of hours, perfect for a sunny summer afternoon.
It's not one of my gooey homemade Heath bar brownies, but it doesn't pretend to be.The Good Neighbor is a Little Debbie brownie.
There aren't enough good arson plots these days.This would have been three stars for me if not for the ending, which used two of my most hated, nerve-grating plot devices.
Run of the mill love obsessed psycho, love me or no one, I'll kill to be with you, blah blah blah.Two, a smash cut from grave danger to a happy ending.
(hide spoiler)]I guess I liked this better than I should have, but the ending was a letdown.
Luckily though, the book rates such little attention I can get away with a very short review: The major problem with  The Good Neighbor  is that it is completely unrealistic.
It has hard to place the blame for this squarely on character or plotting, but I avoid that dilemma by simply stating people in this novel act in ways no person would ever act and seem to up and do whatever would be needed to make the plot more  confusing  suspenseful.
Once again, I wonder why I feel the need to download these Kindle First books?
Usually when people think of horror they think of ghouls, goblins, stalkers, psychopaths, werewolves,clowns... but a happily-married couple? That's more like something you'd see in a romance novel...Unless you take into account the husband's secrets, the wife's suspicion, and the possibility that the people she trusts the most might be more dangerous to her than even the furthest strangers. Really creepy book and one that any thriller fan would enjoy. :)
:: 3 Stars :: I have to say I was very excited about picking up this book because the blurb says it’s the next GONE GIRL.
From what I gathered the book is supposed to be about a woman trying to figure out who started a deadly fire at her neighbor’s house.
If this was the entire plot (woman being deceived by her husband) I think I would have liked it better but it’s not.
I read books because I like to know what happens in the characters’ lives after the fact.
Will there be a book 2 to tell us what happens?
A "perfect" little town holds big secrets. The secrets begin to fray the perfect edges of the townspeople when a fire devastates two homes and families. This was a grab you by the shirt read from page one. The mystery deepened and the clues were a maze making the reader ask question after question. This was a short fast paced read. Love that.  What I didn't love was the ending. Won't do a spoiler but suffice it to say the ending was not satisfying and ended with a "What?!"
I would watch the neighbors come and go, but nobody knew what truly went on inside each home."Sarah and Dr. Johnny McDonald live in a peaceful, quaint town in a neighborhood where people actually care about one another.
One horrible night tragedy strikes that forever changes their little corner of paradise.
Sarah alone will have to bring to light the neighbors undermining role in her life and that of her husband's.
The kind that will make you look at your neighbors just a little differently in the morning light.Thank you to Netgalley and Lake Union Publishing for the allowing me an A.R.C.
Sarah, a children's author is happily married to Johnny, a doctor (some sort of dermatologist) and living in a small town in Washington when a fire guts a neighbouring house, leaving a small child an orphan.
As neighbours huddled around the blaze it was Sarah who climbed through a window of the burning house to bring 4yr old Mia to safety.
We're in Sarah's head throughout this novel and I felt very connected to her.
I am reluctant to write negative reviews but unfortunately IMHO this book doesn't deserve more than two stars. It wasn't really bad; it was just OK, a quick read but not a memorable one. I didn't like any of the characters and the way the plot unfolded didn't appeal to me either. I finished the book to know who the bad guy was and guess what? It disappointed me as well.It goes without saying that other people may find the book interesting and the characters riveting.www.theleisurediaries.blogspot.com : book reviews, travel pictures and more.
This a really great suspense thriller. The book is straight forward with no garbage. Tells the story without a buncha junk to distract you. A book does not have to be 641 pgs. long to tell a good tale. And I don't really care what someone's car looks like or what color the leaves are on the trees. A few unanswered questions at the end of this book, so I am hoping for a sequel. PLEASE!
I picked this book as an Amazon prime first book for August. this was a fast book where lots going on and everyone is suspect. but Damn her husband must be some beautiful man!
You might wonder about their secrets.This book was marketed as a psychological thriller.
To me, it felt more like a mix of psychological and romantic suspense.
Several twists along the way kept me guessing until the end.But I had some problems that kept me from loving this one.The characters felt kind of shallow and predictable.
Consequently, I felt like I was left dangling as well.
Then there is the revelation at the end, that comes with solving the crime.
And then, just like that, the book ends.
I was left wondering why, and what next?If you don't mind being left with unanswered questions, then this book is certainly worth reading.
Great storyA small town where everyone knows your business. But how well do you know your neighbors. Johnny and Sarah lose their neighbors to a house fire but not before Sarah rescues their daughter Mia. Then the suspense starts. Who started the fire and why? The book takes you on a trip through the secrets of the houses that sit on Sitka Lane. Some neighbors are full of surprises.
This was part of the kindle first options for August but I must say that I didn't really love this book. The plot had me hating the main character for being so dumb! Even with the plot twists the ending was sort of predictable. That being said if you're looking for a book that can be made into an original movie that you will watch on a Sunday afternoon because there is nothing else to do, this is the book for you!
