https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/11330361-a-stolen-life
While there is a great deal of pain in reading Jaycee's story as you relive her suffering, it is also impossible not to be moved by the resiliency of the human spirit.
In sharing her story, however, Jaycee Dugard has helped many readers to see that human beings can and do survive impossible situations...and that it's important to appreciate the many precious freedoms that we so often take for granted.A note about the book: This is an incredible piece of testimony to a shocking perpetuation of violence against a human being.
Jaycee Lee Dugard is an extraordinary young woman and courageous in the extreme, not only because she survived her ordeal with compassion for herself as a victim and hope for the future, but because she tells her story in unflinching detail.
It is astounding to learn that she does not hate her tormentors, that she does not want that type of negativity in her life (echoing the sentiments of many notable survivors of torture, extermination camps, extreme abuse, etc.) Amazing woman, simply amazing!
She is a hero and we all have something to learn from her story.
Parts were very repetitive, the graphic details made my stomach turn, and it skipped over the time period I was most curious about.Ms. Dugard's experiences are horrific, especially the graphic descriptions of rape and Phillip's drug-fueled "runs." No 11-year-old, or anyone, should ever have to experience those things.
With, I'm sure, the help of many caring and competent professionals, Ms. Dugard is taking control of her life, which was denied to her for so long, and refusing to be bitter about the past.
Ms. Dugard was able to escape after 18 years, but so many children haven't and won't.
I am definately going to hug my children a little tighter and make sure I remember the promises I make to them after reading this book.
While I was reading this book I could not stop thinking about when I was eleven years old.
Jaycee does a wonderful job of showing exactly how her life was stolen.
I guess because I am only few years older than Jaycee I can't help but think of all that has happened in my life during the last 18 years.
For instance, the police were supposed to search Garrido's home on the basis that Dugard was kidnapped in the same city/town as another woman in 1976?
No. That's not a missing "chance".The police going to Garrido's and not inspecting his yard?
But I can't believe in that and then place blame where it doesn't belong.One very large missed chance is when a neighbor of Garrido's actually called 911 to report children living in tents in Garrido's backyard.
I was going to give this book a 4 star rating and be done with it.
The story of Jaycee Dugard is so horrifying and tragic that I wanted to give the book 4 stars just for that.
(After I wrote this review, when I was looking it over for the final time before submitting, I boosted it to a 2-star rating out of pity.
But I also felt pretty terrible giving this book a 4 star rating ONLY because I felt so sorry for the author and was so horrified by everything she had to endure at the hands of those monsters.I know I
You really felt the presence of that young girl reliving her story.
I feel we each owe it to her to read her story.
This book is a way to help give Jaycee back her life and her voice.In this country that does not honor its children, allows pedophiles to revictimize again and again, and then turns them free to victimize again, we owe the vicitms the respect of listening to their story.
I would say this book would be too difficult to read for parents whose children who are still under 18 years of age.
I read this book in one day. I was captured by Jaycee's words and her story. She endured so much and was such a brave woman. I probably would have given up, but she pressed on and loved to tell a tale that no one could even think to write for fiction!
I haven't read a memoir of this kind before.
Like most of us I'd heard about this over the years, but didn't consider reading her memoir until I stumbled across it in a second hand bookshop just last week.
Jaycee Dugard has done an amazing job telling us her story.
It would have been tremendously hard to do.Right from the start she did tell us it will be a bit disjointed and she might go off onto different tangents, but this is to be expected and I didn't mind her writing style at all.
I sincerely hope Jaycee Dugard is proud of her work in telling her story.

But I have stayed interested for one major reason: Ms. Dugard has been incredibly adept at keeping control over her own story and maintaining her agency at all times.
This book can be seen as the culmination of those efforts, since Ms. Dugard has written her own book about her own experiences rather than letting journalists write them (or worse: not letting journalists write them but watching them get written anyway).
The actual remarkable part is Ms. Dugard's agency, which is all over this book.
And all of the reflections on her experiences are in her own voice, because she wrote every word herself.
A Stolen Life: A Memoir, by Jaycee Dugard, is a disturbing, yet heartwarming personal narrative of the author's abduction, at age 11, and her subsequent 18 year captivity in the backyard of Phillip and Nancy Garrido.I listened to the audio version of the book, which was read by Jaycee.
For example, in the book we are told that during the early years of her captivity, Phillip was returned to federal prison for approximately 1 month for parole violation, when in actuality, it was closer to 5 months.It should come as no surprise that Jaycee was subjected to extensive emotional and psychological disturbance.
Just stop for a second and think about yourself being in her situation.
You really feel like a child wrote this book, but maybe this was the intention, because her formal education stopped when she was only 11 years old.
I found it unnecessary when I read about all those pets she had and journey entries.
I just don't know… I expected to feel her pain, rage, anger through reading this book.
People that did this to her are disgusting and they don't deserve a nice word, but you don't get this feeling while reading this book.
I felt like to go along with her recovery the author was given free range and told to most likely just 'writer her story'.
I can understand that the author did not want her children's names revealed but at the same time they already were to the public via court documents and other media outlets.
Towards the end of the book I did feel like I was just reading notes from her therapist's notebook on what exercises they practiced, how well she did and how she made the connections.
Therefore I feel there should probably have been a little more healing time before this book was published.
She is a clear writer, if overly simplistic.However, as a memoir, if we are to take her unparalleled story aside, A Stolen Life does not amaze.
Truly amazing memoirs are not made by the occurrences of the life it follows, but rather by the ability of the memoirist to transcend their experiences and explore deeper meanings, repercussions, and universality.
While A Stolen Life is absolutely a story worth telling, and hearing, it didn't awaken any deeper understandings or meanings for me beyond compassion for Jaycee.
Jaycee Dugard's childhood was stolen from her, with this memoir, I hope it will give her and her daughters an opportunity to have a better life. I brought this book in support of Jaycee.
One of the hardest books I've ever read because of the subject matter.
Dugard has been through hell and back.
For 18 years, this woman was held captive, mentally & physically abused (the rape descriptions were the hardest parts to read), & impregnated twice.
While she had moments of despair (who wouldn't?), she always held out hope that some day her life would improve.
Even post-captivity, Dugard has maintained an attitude that most could not.
She refused - and refuses - to waste energy hating the people who stole her life.
An amazing woman for sure.
Having followed the Elizabeth Smart abduction, trial and consequences here in SLC, when I heard about what had happened to Jaycee Dugard, my heart went out to her big time and I've been fascinated to hear more about her story and to find out as much as possible about the case.
So Jaycee lived through 18 years of living in a tent or other areas of the compound without a toilet or shower, raising two young children, being fed when Philip and or Nancy where in the mood to feed her and then, while she was still young enough to be sexually attractive to him, he would have a meth "run" and use her sometimes for several days in a row to perform various sexual acts, etc., after-which he would apologize and promise her it would be the last time.
Words cannot begin to describe the pain Jaycee Lee Dugard went through by the hands of the Garrido's, but this definitely comes close. The narrative of Jaycee herself was harrowing at times but essentially poignant at others. This is a must read, but be warned you may need to rest up for a while after. My head is so all over the place.It is a moving novel that has made me thankful for the childhood I had.
I don't feel right rating this book.
I think she did a great job providing her readers with the raw, hard to read details.
She feels no shame for what was done to her and I believe that is why she comes across as so mentally healthy in interviews and in this book.
Her children were raised to believe she was their sister, not their mother.
How can you blame her for feeling a deeper connection to the animals that were in her presence all the time than for her own children?
Really really fascinating read.
This book would benefit me more than food after a three-day fast (which I've never participated in, by the way), not just to inform me more about what Jaycee went through but about how I need to get over my fears and come to terms with them.This book did just that, and while it may not have the best writing I've ever read (actually, far from it) or the best structure (again, far from it), this book helped me to overcome something that kept me up at night.
It is likely she finds it impossible to completely deal with her anger toward the Garridos (her captors) and so focuses part of it on her step-father.
She also spends a great deal of time in the book telling how law enforcement failed to find her when they easily could have done it.
I recommend the book for therapists, people helpers, law enforcement officials, civic leaders and anyone who is given the responsibility to help society rid ourselves of sexual predators.
I wish she would have allowed a ghost writer to help her weed out some of the weaker points and this would have been a better book.
It took me several days to just get through her heartbreaking story.
As a mother and someone in the criminal justice field, it sickens me that a victim could be in plain view for so many years and never be noticed.
I have nothing but deep admiration for Jaycee and the countless others victims whose stories we will never fully know or understand.
Favorite Quotes:  History has taught us that even when it looks like there is no hope, hope still lives in people's hearts.
My goal is to inspire people to speak out when they see that something is not quite right around them.
Saw her Diane Sawyer interview. She's an amazingly impressive and inspirational woman.
Until #2 came along.The second reason-and the decisive one-was I read a terrific review of the book on GR that made me say yes, I would read this.(Oh, and there was actually a third & equally decisive event, but only in the light of the first two: After thinking about the book, then reading the review & deciding to read the book, it should up for $1 at a library sale).If you are unaware of the case, Jaycee Dugard was kidnapped at a school bus stop at the age of 11 and held prison for 18 years-until just a couple of years ago by a man and his wife.
18 years of captivity, emotional abuse, rape, and living in substandard conditions (imagine using a bucket as a toilet, washing up with stale water, and sleeping in a tent in a backyard for that long...).Overall, this was an interesting story, but it also included a lot of details/journal entries that I skimmed because they got repetitive.
I do understand why all of it was included though - she was giving an account of several years being held in captivity, and getting to read her personal thoughts gave the reader a chance to get inside of her head.Jaycee Dugard did fall a victim of sorts to Stockholm Syndrome, but never lost touch with reality.
At times it was so awful I had to put it down, and I will admit I shed a lot of tears while reading this book.
Throughout the book you can tell she has never grown up, I still felt as though I was reading or seeing the story through the mind of a child.
It kind of reminded me of myself at her age, which made it more poignant to think that she was just a regular young girl, and it deeply bothers me that she never got to act like one.
I think Jaycee Lee Dugard has a lot of bravery and strength for being able to come out and share her story with the world.
This book is Jaycee Dugard's story of her life in captivity.
The middle of the book is full of journal entries written by Jaycee during her captivity and some of the passages are quite poignant.I would not really recommend this book because there are just too many stories about cats and dogs and not enough analysis of her own life or that of her captors.
These, and many more questions are left unanswered by the author.I really feel for Jaycee's stolen life and hope she manages to get the help she needs and have a bright future, but I really did not need to read about her cats and dogs, page after page after page.
This book was an absolutely brutal emotional roller coaster. I knew it would be gut wrenching even before starting it, but I still wasn't prepared for it in the slightest. I felt sick to my stomach the whole way through, the thought of someone going through something so horrific is just heartbreaking and unimaginable. I actually had to put it down at some points because it was just too overwhelming and I needed time to process my thoughts. This book will definitely haunt me for awhile.
If you want to know about her story, read it.
If you put such a taboo on something as even being able to say your very name, and turn it into something to fear, knowing you have no control and you are dependent, ENTIRELY dependent on your captor for anything you want, simple things like using the bathroom, food, company and entertainment (after LONG hours of dark and loneliness in a tight space with no contact with anyone or anything...like a year) it's easy to see how he could gain such total control over her.
I want to know everything.
