https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/32487612-a-criminal-defense
Mick McFarland is a gritty Philadelphia lawyer trying to make the world a better place, one case at a time.
It serves as a wonderful starting point and the legal nuances embedded into the story keep the reader engaged.
Branching out from there, Myers fills the story with a wonderful cross-section of legal minds, money-grubbing business folk, and those who see themselves as above the fray.
Myers shows that his first foray into the genre has been a great success and I cannot wait for his follow-up, another standalone, out in the early part of 2018.Kudos, Mr. Myers for such a wonderful opening salvo into the world of cutthroat readers and reviewers.
Great legal thriller.This unpublished book was free with Kindle First March selection. So very glad I picked this book. Legal mystery/thrill lovers should read this book.All the characters with their actions explained to us who and what they are. Other than little girl Gabrielle and Tommy, they all are disgusting.Michael McFarland has small legal practice, his very rich friend since law school is accused of murder. Trial and investigations keeps you guessing and glued to your seat. You'll never guess the mind blowing ending.
2 StarsThis story is about a defense attorney (Mick) who his recent client is his college friend (David).
David is accused for killing a reporter.
So I skipped and skimmed and I’m sooo happy for doing that because that ending pissed me off SO MUCH!
I don’t care that the victim was b!tch/sl*t or she could have destroyed a family.
JUSTICE WAS NOT SERVED in this book.
I don’t care the perp/perps (view spoiler)[will never have peace or her killing will be a burden for the perp/perps (hide spoiler)] It's not fair!
I just wanted to see the justice!
I HATED THAT ENDING!
3.75 starsThis book featured a slow burning legal drama based in Philadelphia about a lawyer juggling multiple open cases, an unsteady marriage, unstable family ties, and a financially shaky legal firm.
Mick was sort of lifeless and bland to me for the majority of this book, but he became more lively during the David Hanson/ Jennifer Yamura trial and that streak of energy continued to the end of the story.
There wasn't a single twist or turn in this book that I didn't love and the ending was to die for!
Review to follow but LOVED this. I'm on the lookout for good legal thrillers I mean REALLY good ones and this hit the spot.
I was really blown away by this book.
There are so many surprises and plot twists- I was kept guessing until the very end.
I love clever lawyering and tense courtroom drama-I really enjoyed the courtroom scenes.
The real surprise for me, though, was the characters and the drama/conflict between them.
Legal thrillers these days are too often filled with thin, almost cliche'd characters.
The characters in this book, including the protagonist Mick, are layered and their relationships complex.
As the story unfolded, I enjoyed learning the causes underlying the tensions and estrangements between the charachters and the conflicts inside them.
I enjoyed the writing itself but took off 3 points for the plot, storyline, and the way it ended.
The plot and storyline had the feel of a bad soap opera.
Yes, I understand wanting to add twists and surprises but this was absurd.
I mean, having our "hero" lawyer Mick, his troubled brother Tommy, the prosecuting attorney, Mick's wife, the defendant David Hanson, and David's wife Marcie all cheating and being cheated on and involved in the murder of reporter Jennifer Yamura in different ways was just unbelievable and too over-the-top.
The ending is disturbing.
This is a legal procedural set in Philadelphia. As a Philly local I love books set in Philly. Love them. And the first 50% of this book had me absolutely charmed. It was an excellent mystery and Philly was well featured. when the twist in the tale came I was stunned. Stunned. STUNNED. And then annoyed.So 4 stars rather than 5. I still plan on reading the next book by the author.
Every once in a while I enjoy a good book about the law. This was an engrossing story of criminal defense but I hated the ending. There were no good guys and justice was not served. Maybe I'm naive, but at least in fiction, I want to like at least one person, and there was no one.
The author is a practicing attorney.A young female reporter is found dead and a prominent Philadelphia businessman is accused of the murder.
V. news reporter had call Mick to seek help only hours before her death.
Mick had been a prosecutor before becoming a defense attorney.
Mick discovered his friend had lots of skeletons in his closet.
Nothing is as it seems even to the point as to whether it was an accident or murder.The book is well written.
The book is thirteen hours long.
This is the first time I have heard him narrator a book.
I will keep an eye out for more books narrated by him.
I got this through Kindle First and I guess I'll never learn that free books are terrible books. I chose it because it had the best reviews of them all... what are y'all smoking??Also this author didn't seem to know that Thatcher Gray (Grey) is a well known soap opera character from Grey's Anatomy.
This isn’t a straightforward legal drama, there is much more going on under the surface than you initially think, which is exactly why I ended up loving A Criminal Defense so much!This was jam packed with complex characters with even more complex relationships and they all toed the line in terms of morality.
The beginning of the book is a lot of build up as the case doesn’t actually go to court until after the halfway point, however the author was laying the groundwork for some explosive moments later on down the road, so it was all necessary in the end.
Twists and turns a plenty, but it doesn't make for a good story.
No drama, no anticipation, Grisham it ain't.
Hey, let's make a convoluted plot, that no one will see coming because it doesn't make any sense, and have the bad guys get away with everything.
(view spoiler)[And Walker asking about scars or visible marks in chambers?
Sure, he was put up to it, but the judge wouldn't find such a specific question that leads to the perfect answer suspicious?
A judge who, up till now, has been on top of his game?
(hide spoiler)]And after writing that out, I'm lowering my rating by a star.
Review to come
So I'm wavering between 3 and 4 stars and have decided to go with 4. There were parts of this book that were excellent, there were parts of this book that were not, but they always led to new questions of "what's he up to now" and "who is on that tape". I thought I new; I did not. (view spoiler)[In the end the one person I was sure was on that tape was not and they were the one that had actually done the deed. I guessed the right person but not the right motive. (hide spoiler)]Nearly everyone is
So I'm wavering between 3 and 4 stars and have decided to go with 4.
There were parts of this book that were excellent, there were parts of this book that were not, but they always led to new questions of "what's he up to now" and "who is on that tape".
I thought I new; I did not.
(view spoiler)[In the end the one person I was sure was on that tape was not and they were the one that had actually done the deed.
I guessed the right person but not the right motive.
(hide spoiler)]Nearly everyone is guilty of something
When a young reporter is found dead and a prominent Philadelphia businessman is accused of her murder, Mick McFarland finds himself involved in the case of her life.
The first half of the book builds up the case while the second half is the courtroom drama.
We get some of Mick's background story, which I like as it builds up the main character up.
The book does not end the way I thought it was going too but that just made me like it all the more.
Mick McFarland is a gritty Phily lawyer trying to make the world a better place, one case at a time.
After being retained, McFarland starts in damage control mode, learning that Hanson is clear in his innocence, but that there was a sexual affair with Yamura.
However, early discussions and evidence points to the fact that Hanson could well have killed Yamura, or was at least in the house with her dead body and had been cleaning up any sign of his presence.
McFarland goes into dragon type mode, but must stay one step ahead of his client and even more of the Walker has his eye on burying Hanson.
A fantastic new legal thriller and love Peter Berkrot! Highly recommend the audio.  Review to follow.
In this unusual legal procedural, Mick McFarland can point with confidence to his law degree from the University of Pennsylvania, his highly successful stint in the D.A.'s office, and his pro bono work evidencing his idealism in the justice system.
It feels like a godsend when McFarland's former law school roommate David Hanson is arrested for murder and calls him.
A second backstory traces the troubled life of his brother Tommy, now employed as an investigator for McFarland's law firm.
After years spent caring for their dying father while McFarland was earning his law degree, Tommy went into a tail-spin of alcoholic binges, brawling and jail time.
As a nearly-exclusive reader of the fantasy genre, I don't typically pick up books like A Criminal Defense.
However, I came to think early on that the abrupt tone actually suited the story well enough and it stopped bothering me for the most part.The plot progression felt natural enough, with the reader fully apprised that the main character is of questionable reliability throughout, giving him room to withhold some information.
Readers who are annoyed by the main character (whose story is told from the first person view) intentionally hiding secrets from the audience might be annoyed by some parts, but it seems to me the type of thing that is difficult to avoid with stories centering around a mystery.
This was really hard to get though.
I generally am able to sit and read a book for a few hours and finish within a day or two, but I kept finding that I had to put this one down and take a break from it.
This took me over a month to read.
None of the characters had any redeeming qualities.
They all acted reprehensible and awful.
The story dragged forever until the plot twist at the very end.
That didn't redeem the book either.
It made very little sense to the rest of the story and only served to "spice up" and already boring story.
Wow...A Legal Thriller with a BANG! A great story of a lawyer,his family and a murder that is much more than meets the eye! A courtroom tale with characters so diverse that it is hard to find any to like. Just when you think you understand a plot, there is a twist that changes everything. A nice job of writing by author William L. Myers, even the ending is totally unexpected. Anyone who likes legal thrillers should grab this book immediately!
A CRIMINAL DEFENSEThis is an exceptional book, nothing is as it seems. The author did an amazing job of putting an elaborate puzzle together, very complex story-very good book.
I really enjoyed this book.
At first I thought it was going to be a run of the mill Grisham with a moral lawyer who sticks up for the vulnerable and powerless against the wealthy and powerful.
It does start by following that path or so it seems.Mick McFarland is the lawyer and the setting is Philadelphia which made a change from the normal New York, LA or London settings.
McFarland is brought in to defend a wealthy old law school friend who has been charged with murder in the first degree.
I was enjoying the ride far too much for that.
When a young reporter is found dead and a prominent Philadelphia businessman is accused of her murder, Mick McFarland finds himself involved in the case of his life.
The defendant, David Hanson, was Mick’s close friend in law school, and the victim, a TV news reporter, had reached out to Mick for legal help only hours before her deathMick is sure his friend did not commit this murder.
The body was moved it appears, why His friend says it was to save his wife from finding out he had been unfaithful once again.Mick’s played both sides of Philadelphia’s courtrooms.
I have to admit that I was surprised at how good this book was. Discussing the book in detail would mean spoilers and I just won't do that to other readers. There are a lot of twists and turns in this legal thriller even though some of them arrive by telegraph. He created characters that I cared about and a story that I wanted to keep on reading.
Fantastic!This is the best legal thriller I've read in a long time.
As Mick starts building his case, he discovers David has been less than honest with him and that David and his wife, Marcie, are working behind the scenes to make sure the trial goes David's way.
Then there's Mick's brother, Tommy.
Tommy is his brother's investigator and has a close relationship with Mick's wife, Piper.
The courtroom drama with Mick pitted against an ambitious hard nosed prosecutor, the characters and their relationships with one another, the crime, the victim, all so very well written I hated it to come to an end.
Is there a greater descriptor than MAGNIFICENT?I'm a sucker for reading newbie authors; however, most of their efforts are pretty mediocre. William L. Myers, Jr. is the incredibly outstanding exception! His first published novel, A Criminal Defense, is excellent beyond words. The cast of characters is diverse, well-crafted, likable/hated and certainly can be surprising. The story is extremely well-plotted, well-paced and is one of THE BEST mystery/thrillers I've EVER read by a new author. I sure hope you're hard at work on your second novel, Mr. Myers, because I'm waiting...
Although I enjoyed this story, I did skim some of the courtroom scene in the second half of the book.
But the storyline kept me glued to the pages, trying to figure out who the murderer was.
First of all, the victim was not a nice person, and neither was the defendant.
But few of the supporting characters had any redeeming qualities, either, quite frankly.
This was one of those stories where you can’t figure out who did it, and even when you think you do, there’s more to the story.
Plot twists, an unexpected ending, and shock after shock kept me turning the pages.
I am usually leery of legal thrillers because of my career as a lawyer. This novel, while not perfect, is an outstanding and riveting legal suspense read. Certainly there are moments that strain credulity and testimony that would be objectionable, but on the whole it is a great courtroom story. This is a unique story with Machiavellian twists and turns from many characters. It also contains a fascinating subplot concerning the psychologically damaged family of the protagonist which at times is poignant. I heartily recommend it.
