https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/17934530-annihilation
And I prefer to be honest than just giving a high rating if I don't believe on it.First of all, I don't hate the author and I am not looking for affecting the average rating of this novel.Basically, I had to balance the meaning of each rating here on Goodreads against what I thought about my reading experience with the novel, and I realized that I wasn't confortable even thinking on the book that "I like it" which it would imply a 3-stars rating, so at the end, I opted to give it a 2-star rating, but I don't enjoy to do it.Maybe I am not the ideal reader for this kind of stories.
”...but whether it decays under the earth or above on green fields, or out to sea or in the very air, all shall come to revelation, and to revel, in the knowledge of the strangling fruit and the hand of the sinner shall rejoice, for there is no sin in shadow or in light that the seeds of the dead cannot forgive…”   An Anthropologist, a Surveyor, a Psychologist, and a Biologist, all female, make up the 12th expedition to AREA X. The expeditions that have come to this region before have not fared
An Anthropologist, a Surveyor, a Psychologist, and a Biologist, all female, make up the 12th expedition to AREA X.
In all ways, the name was a further an unwanted confusion to me, a dark space that kept growing and growing in my mind.” It does make you wonder why someone would volunteer knowing the outcomes of the previous missions.
We find out as the story continues that her husband had volunteered to go on the previous expedition.
As the expedition gets smaller she becomes more and more desperate to understand why AREA X exists.
You might even decide you need to volunteer for Expedition 13 as...
Really good books. Very different. Very atmospheric and different than anything else I've ever read.I read part of this trilogy off the page and listened to some of it on audiobook. And looking back, I wish I'd read the entire thing off the page. I think it would have been a better overall experience that way.Highly recommended.
FINE, FINE, FINE, I'm buying book 2.
While you have this wonderful premise of an expedition to a remote 'Area X' where the world is not quite right after some mysterious intervention from outside, you also have this mystery clouded over by characters that are puppets, have no personality, are deliberately obfuscate and are entirely unreliable.
All are as frustratingly grey as each other.I think a great analogy of this reading experience is to compare it to the TV series "Lost".
But I'd say for those who do know the series is that this novel is awfully like the last season of Lost.
I was expecting more from this book.
I will read the next one at some point, mainly because I know there is a next book.
All this was disappointing considering the hype I have heard about it.But, since there are two others in the series, and the series as a whole is critically acclaimed - perhaps I will find something more as the story continues.After rethinking I changed this from 3 to 2 stars on 3/4/2016 and I will probably not be reading any more of the series.Update 10/7/2017 - I see this is coming out as a movie.
The book seems to be going for the eerie "each man is every man" type of feeling that you got from Cormac McCarthy's "The Road," in which none of the characters have names.
Here we have a small group of women, among them "the psychologist," "the surveyor," and "the biolgist" (our narrator) exploring Area X, a supernatural-type district that borders our own mundane world.
I will not be reading the sequels even tho they are being released by the publisher on an accelerated schedule.
(NYT recently reported on this new publishing phenomenon of quick releasing of series.
And this series is being published by FSG, usually known for quality books.
The best books are those that keep their secrets to themselves.
Those, that don't tell you everything, that make you desperate for information that you will not receive.
It's the mystery that keeps one interested, the depths that you want to explore.
They make your fingers tremble because you want to touch everything, know the answer to every question.
There are fantastic books out there.
But those that tell me all their secrets will fade from memory.
Now that I know, how else will you keep me interested?Find more of my books on Instagram
Will the calamities that have befallen previous expeditions befall them as well?I'd read four Jeff VanderMeer books prior to this one and they were all unsettling in one way or another.
The story is more about mood and the character of the biologist than it is about exploration.This is one of those books that I have a hard time quantifying my feelings about.
There were more than enough unanswered questions to make me want to read the next book in the series, however.With Annihilation, VanderMeer has crafted a creepy ass tale that would make H.P. Lovecraft shiver.
I finished and had to have an internal conversation with myself (much like the biologist in 90% of the book) to identify that, beneath the eerie, suspenseful surface, the feeling I was left with was, well, a vacancy of feeling.
I guess it's like the TV show Lost in that a group of people mysteriously get stuck in a strange wilderness with things maybe trying to kill them or something and it doesn't really make sense and then people die insert five seasons of random detours and wait maybe this is all just a dream or a metaphorical commentary on the relationship between humankind and nature or whatever and none of this is actually happening then it's over and...
Watch the film and let the experience beguile and ensorcel you.
Their mission is to map the terrain and collect specimens; to record all their observations, scientific and otherwise, of their surroundings and of one another; and, above all, to avoid being contaminated by Area X itself.They arrive expecting the unexpected, and Area X delivers—they discover a massive topographic anomaly and life forms that surpass understanding—but it’s the surprises that came across the border with them, and the secrets the expedition members are keeping from one another, that change everything.My Review: Winner of the 2015 Nebula Award for science fiction novels and the 2014 Shirley Jackson Award for horror novels, this novel earns accolade after award heaped on top of praise for a good reason: It is eerie, atmospheric setting plus glimpsed monsters plus the recrudescence of the inner evil in all humans.
We're well into this short book before something truly scary happens; before that, it was all spooky suggestions.
VanderMeer is a master at giving you small hints and victories as you piece together what is going on as each member of the team slowly succumbs to the horrors of whatever is causing the illness, insanity, and transformation that is spilling out of Area X's every living cell, from the bark of the trees to the gigantic unseen animals that you can hear moaning in the reeds but never actually get a good look at until they are hurtling toward you at full speed, jaws open.He is amazing at small touches that at first sound almost innocuous but in the end leave you reeling from their impact and hidden implications.This book is creepy and horrifying.
Dr. Moreau + Sphere + Hunger Games + Lord of the Flies + the first half of the MaddAddam trilogy = this bizarre intro into the "Southern Reach" trilogy. There may even be some groovy transcendentalist Thoreau thrown somewhere in there! The platform here is potent enough a dose to ensure the future reading of the next novels. ...Yay!!
I guess this short novel is redolent of the strange fascination one sometimes feels when gazing at a heavy, sleepy pool of water, where fish and tadpoles swarm and waggle among dead weeds, and more massive creatures seem to be lurking in the dark, unfathomable depths underneath.Area X is one such fascinating place, an abandoned, nondescript no-man’s-land.
In some way, it strongly reminded me of Strugatsky’s Roadside Picnic, especially Stalker, Tarkovsky’s film adaptation —Tarkovsky is probably the one filmmaker who has, as I mentioned before, the most potent fascination for stagnant waters and dancing reeds.
Knowing it was based on a book, I wanted to read the book before I saw the movie.
I'm not quite sure why anyone would want to volunteer to join in on any of these expeditions after knowing those facts; however, these women enter Area X.
I had a lot of questions while reading this book that never quite got answered.
Of course, the Author is not going to answer all my questions, that is what the next two books are for, but I still wanted just "something" more.
None of the previous expeditions have returned alive or have survived long after returning.Interestingly everyone who "crosses over" must be hypnotized in order to keep them sane.
The exact methodology of "crossing over" is also kept secret with no exact instructions on how to get back.
They are instructed to just return to the entry point and will be extracted.None of the characters are named other than by there occupation, as names cause a level of familiarity that the Southern Reach does not want to occur.
All members of the crew are instructed to "watch each other".
Need to think about this one.
Mixed feelings about it...
still haven't made my mind up completely.
but no doubt the story is exceptional...Really intriguing, weird story, kind of a hallucination.I liked the story concept and you keep reading, wondering what the ....
is going on and how it will all end...
but I did not particularly love it.
Still, an exceptional, creepy storyline that makes you keep on reading.
To tell a lot about it would soon end in spoiling.
Not sure yet if I will read the sequels in this trilogy, but then again...
Annihilation -- the first book in the Southern Reach Trilogy -- is Weird with a capital 'W' with its roots in H.P. Lovecraft and Algernon Blackwood.
I felt the epic creep and that twisting, squirming sense of dread of what I couldn't see, of what was lurking right in the corner of my eye.
But as with most Weird fiction I've tried, there was a lot of "huh?" and a growing sense of impatience that acts like a maddening itch I can't scratch.
For you Weird aficionados out there and fans of the unreliable narrator (I'm primarily looking at you mark monday) you might want to give this a second look.
By the time we were ready to cross the border, we knew everything... and we knew nothing(Basically the description of yours truly’s feeling after reading the last page of Annihilation)Ok I need a sixth sense in order to really ‘get’ this book it seems. (view spoiler)[Just like our main biologist stated - maybe the five senses are not enough to perceive whatever the hell is going on in Area X. (hide spoiler)] And since I unfortunately don’t have that, I cannot say I enjoyed this book more than a
and we knew nothing(Basically the description of yours truly’s feeling after reading the last page of Annihilation)Ok I need a sixth sense in order to really ‘get’ this book it seems.
(hide spoiler)] And since I unfortunately don’t have that, I cannot say I enjoyed this book more than a nicely bizarre story of an intelligent and atypical scientist on her adventure to this place called Area X, wherever or whatever that is.I’m quite certain that if not for the relatively short length (159 pages), I’d abandon this about 30% in.
We’re speculative fiction fans, it’s in our DNA, we are looking for the Winona Ryder strange and unusual and we’re willing to say Beetlejuice three times and click our ruby slippers and shamble along the uninhabited shores of Myst for hours on end.
I’m fairly certain that Speed Racer’s brother Racer X does NOT come from this place, but that’s one of the few things of which I am certain.There are hints that the strangely biohazard swamp was some kind of alien visitation and that made me think of Arkady and Boris Strugatsky’s 1972 novel Roadside Picnic where people entered the radioactive zones on clandestine missions to find alien treasure.
One life form slowly devours another, using all the myriad tricks of evolution, from symbiosis and natural selection, to rise, unerringly, to be the top of the food chain.I felt like I just read a SF/Horror hybrid that was just narrated by Jacques Cousteau, full of even and progressive prose, leading me inexorably to a great change.
Ghost Bird, herself, was like a great ocean of denial, always telling us that she was no more than her surface appearing, and yet, every step of the way, she reflected back to us a great unconscious drive that kept pounding at us until she met the lighthouse keeper, and after.Oddly enough, I had a horrible reaction while reading this.
It's been a good while coming, I know, but life changes.
Annihilation recounts the twelfth expedition into the mysterious Area X—an ecologically devastated swampland in the southern United States.
They’re also directed to leave all of their personal identities behind, and keep a close watch on their colleagues for signs of mental breakdown.The all-female team is comprised of a biologist, anthropologist, surveyor, and a psychologist—no names are ever provided.
Can the scientist set aside their mistrust of one another long enough to make any real progress in their investigation, or will Area X continue to stubbornly cling to its secrets?I have to admit it all sounded rather intriguing to me.
The first thing I noticed on the staging level before we reached the wider staircase that spiraled down, before we encountered again the words written on the wall...the tower was breathing.
The tower breathed, and the walls when I went to touch them carried the echo of a heartbeat...and they were not made of stone but of living tissue.Four scientists embark on an expedition to Area X.
From the beginning, they view each other with suspicion and doubt; it does not help that they have been encouraged NOT to share too much information as it may skew their observations.
Curiosity could be a powerful distraction  When the 12th expedition planned on further investigating the mysterious Area X, things started to get weird again. The team was comprised of a biologist, anthropologist, surveyor, and a psychologist. This expedition proved to be just as dangerous as the first 11. Will this one finally be the successful one, or will it be the worst one of them all?Annihilation received a huge amount of buzz and positive feedback over the past few months. I've also bee
I liked the overall plot, but I was expecting better execution.The novel was very detailed and vivid about what it wanted to portray.
I can't complain about that.The main thing that I hated about this novel would be the terrible lifeless characters.
While the plot was decent, the characters ruined what little left of fondness I had of the novel.
I'm very glad that the next novel would have a different set of characters.
Decent plot, really good writing, but terrible character development.
I'm really hoping the characters would be a lot better there.
Jeff VanderMeer has a brilliant imagination and the world he creates feels utterly original, startlingly so, but still grounded in something like believability.There is not all that much to the plot: four women embarque on an expedition into Area X; they are the 12th expedition of this kind and all the ones that came before ended somewhat mysteriously.
I have been thinking about this book ever since I finished it and the more I do so the more brilliant I find it.Jeff VanderMeer's greatest talent lies in creating an atmosphere so all-encompassing that I felt like I was part of the story.
A group of female scientists and professionals are sent to explore a region that is not like the world they know.
Annihilation is a hypnotic science fiction/thriller that weaves its spell slowly.
I loved it.Isolation from the modern world and technology places this tale in an anachronistic bubble: "One rule for an expedition into Area X was that we were to attempt no outside contact, for fear of some irrevocable contamination." pg 7, ebook.
I highly recommend it for science fiction lovers and those who enjoy experiencing a world that doesn't behave by the usual rules.
Find all of my reviews at: http://52bookminimum.blogspot.com/ “We all live in a kind of continuous dream. When we wake, it is because something, some event, some pinprick even, disturbs the edges of what we’ve taken as reality.” Welcome to the place that lies outside of Trump’s wall that Mexico paid for. It is known as Area X . . .  “Our mission was simple: to continue the government’s investigation into the mysteries of Area X . . . We were the twelfth expedition.” After my failure yesterday I
“Our mission was simple: to continue the government’s investigation into the mysteries of Area X .
Well, my reading experience last night looked a lil bit like this .
If you decide to give Annihilation a go, I highly recommend clearing your schedule and reading it in one sitting.
I also really appreciate the fact that although this is part 1 of a series it worked perfectly fine as a stand-alone, leaving me with zero regrets about maintaining my stance on not reading past the first book.I decided to give Annihilation a go based on my friend 11811 (Eleven)’s rating.
While the novel doesn't introduce a doomsday scenario or send the population of a major city fleeing in terror, an apocalyptic vibe permeates the story, which is elliptical, imaginative, removed, occasionally creepy and mostly lifeless.The heavily concept oriented novel deals with an expedition into Area X, an ecological dead zone that has appeared in an unnamed region (the black pine forests, swamp and ocean suggest Florida) of an unnamed country (the United States, most likely) apparently being studied by an agency known as the Southern Reach, which has previously sent in eleven teams to study the area.
Annihilation is a sci-fi novel that follows a team of four women as they explore a mysterious region known as Area X.
In other words, this book is a whole lot of fun.When people saw that I was reading this novel I received a couple of messaging saying that it wasn't that great or that it's a good idea but not very well executed.
I had loads of fun reading this.A dark and suffocating exploration of the unknown, Annihilation, like its mother Stalker, purposefully leaves the reader with more questions than answers.
Jarringly beautiful and horrifying. Easily my favorite book so far this year.
