https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/77504.Blue_Mars
An independent Mars but not a peaceful one, Blue Mars, blue skies, a great , stormy, huge , Martian North Sea, of the same color, turning salty, fish swimming below, birds flying above, animals roaming around the land, majestic trees growing on beautiful hills, sparkling rivers gently flowing by, magnificent green vegetation everywhere on shore, dark clouds that cause showers to pour down, howling winds over 150 miles a hour, making powerful waves crash on pretty little fishing villages and resorts, gorgeous beaches full of Martians playing, boats tossed high in the breathable air, dazzling islands in the Sun, the mythical great canal built here, towering mountains twice the size of Everest, curious tourists from distant Earth arrive, yes a paradise, if no people lived on the 4th planet.
This success also has another effect: asteroids and other planets get terraformed as well, which means that humanity has more opportunity to spread out (relaxing the political/military tensions between Earth and Mars) and we get to use everything in our solar system (including metals from other planets).This leads me to the technology angle: the author always made sure to present development on the small(er) scale, such as the bird suits so people on Mars could actually fly, as well as the large scale, such as the mining efforts on Mercury or the new ship drives that make interstellar travel relatively fast and easy.
I also liked the societal problems that he envisions and the unique Martian solutions to, say, the economy (the positive eco-economics of Vlad and his girlfriends in particular in Red Mars in particular) Immortality - I did not suspect that the Martians, Vlad in particular, would develop a cure for death (well, almost) and found the complications of this (memory loss in particular) to be fascinating and an interesting way to keep the story arcs alive over the nearly 200 year period during which the novels occur.DislikesShunted character arcs I have been wanting to say for a while how pissed I was at the premature deaths of John, Frank, and especially Arkady in Red and Green Mars.
The first two novels in the Mars trilogy were pretty much a tight mix of colonization, politics, SO MUCH GREAT SCIENCE, and fairly interesting characterizations pretty much designed to carry the sprawling expanse of what MARS is more than anything else.Let's put it this way, and careful, because here comes a spoiler, but...Mars is the main character.
You could take it as a metaphor if you like, Old Blue Earth vs New Mars, memories versus living in the present, or even White versus Red thinking (It's a Thing).
Science: Robinson is fairly obsessed with Mars, and any of my friends who decide to read this should use the specially constructed Google Maps for this trilogy (thanks, Dennis, Boccippio!) to follow the narrative -- there are many long travelogues in the narrative.
If you're not a scientist, or don't find science interesting, you might zone out, but Robinson manages two remarkable feats: first, he folds the science into the narrative well, so that it becomes a part of the actual story, and he frequently uses the science as a metaphor for what's happening politically or personally with the characters.
Christmas 2010: I realised that I had got stuck in a rut. I was re-reading old favourites again and again, waiting for a few trusted authors to release new works. Something had to be done.On the spur of the moment I set myself a challenge, to read every book to have won the Locus Sci-Fi award. That’s 35 books, 6 of which I’d previously read, leaving 29 titles by 14 authors who were new to me.While working through this reading list I got married, went on my honeymoon, switched career and became
I was re-reading old favourites again and again, waiting for a few trusted authors to release new works.
Something had to be done.On the spur of the moment I set myself a challenge, to read every book to have won the Locus Sci-Fi award.
That’s 35 books, 6 of which I’d previously read, leaving 29 titles by 14 authors who were new to me.While working through this reading list I got married, went on my honeymoon, switched career and became a father.
I finished it up while waiting for my wife and newborn son to be released and as such it will forever remain etched on my heart.Having read the entire Mars Trilogy back-to-back, I found 
¿Alguien sabe dónde reparten los premios por haber terminado la trilogía?
¿Me la he leído para nada?De verdad que admiro el trabajo del autor.
Esta trilogía es un verdadero compendio de todos los saberes de la humanidad extrapolados a una futura terraformación en Marte y el Sistema Solar.
Tal vez dentro de décadas se demostrará que Robinson es un visionario y estaba en lo cierto con todo lo que describió.
Mil temas más sin conseguir crear una empatía con los personajes ni con lo que estaban haciendo.¿En serio no dan premio?
I would equate his use of science as a literary device to Asimov, except Robinson uses science that is reasonable within humanities grasp.
The science is the real strength of this book and series.
No points lost there.The real problem with this series and especially this book was that, even though parts of it were fascinating, parts of it were so incredibly dull that a Pelican History of Greece was exciting in comparison.
This is why this book took months rather than days to read.If I wasn't anticipating a memorable endind, I would have given up despite having read the first two books with moderate suffering.
Robinson only wrote this story (If it was a story.
Blue Mars is set after the colonization struggles of  Red Mars and the political upheavals of  Green Mars.
Instead, we spend a tiresome majority of this book with various characters who have decided to check out from life and wander the Martian wilderness.
I miss  Red Mars and the way it had all those, you know, events.So  Blue Mars was a little disappointing, a meandering, largely plot-free doorstopper of a book.
It's a world I think about often, a messy utopia filled with characters that will always have a special place in my heart (even if they did overstay their welcome a bit by book 3).
Blue Mars concludes nearly 2000 pages of Robinson's middle 1990s future history of the settling and development of Mars.
While Robinson strays close to the border of ridiculous social commentary a la Through the Looking-Glass and What Alice Found There, most readers will identify his monumental achievement chronicling the physics, chemistry, biology--and, yes, even the psychology and politics of his brave new world.That said, Robinson cut many corners and stacked the deck in favor of his settlers.
He creates a volcano in Green Mars, then doesn't mention it again in that book or in Blue Mars.Much like Thomas More's Utopia, but still a fun read.
As if Stanley Robinson suddenly realised he didn't actually have enough Mars material for three volumes.(That feeling is only intensified by the sudden appearance of inter-generational sex on the Martian surface.
It's not that that particular hot and heavy scene demands a nomination for 'The Bad Sex Prize', but the sudden appearance of a lusty young maiden and her unlimited desires a thousand or so pages in (or whatever it is, I read it on a Kindle) does feel like an author scrabbling around for something to write about.)Towards the end, the background rumblings of a war do finally start to crack the surface, but annoyingly Stanley Robinson chooses not to focus his attention there.
Every now and then I stumble across a truly inspired book. This is one of them. One of three, actually, as it is the last in a trilogy, starting with “Red Mars” and continuing with “Green Mars”. Colonists come to Mars and transform it into a liveable world, while trying not to make the same mistakes as Earth did. Beautifully written, great characterisations. Mars comes to life, it’s almost like reading poetry. I felt really bad after finishing it, because I had to part with this great story.
This review was written in the late nineties (just for myself), and it was buried in amongst my things until today, when I uncovered the journal it was written in.
This novel changed me.
I was reading this novel while the U.S. and NATO were attacking Serbia over Kosovo.
It all seems so depressing and overwhelming and meaningless, but really these events are all of a piece, and all are incentives to change those things Robinson so rightly criticizes.
[A note of personal interest: those changes that Robinson catalysed are still with me today, but they were also something of a breakpoint for my first marriage.
There are so many parts of it that aggravated me nearly to the point of distraction, and then there would be a part that was pretty good, and then there would be frustration again, and sometimes I'd want to tear characters out of the book and throttle them.
Or is it just that I am far too aggravated by what is really a defining feature of many of Robinson's characters in many of his books?Note: The rest of this review has been withheld due to the changes in Goodreads policy and enforcement.
In the meantime, you can read the entire review at Smorgasbook
That surge occurs in this third installment, Blue Mars, and leaves the reader gaping into the enormous depths of jagged human emotions.It’s not that KSR intended for his characters to appear two-dimensional in the first installment of this series; it’s just that the character treatment in Red Mars was nowhere near the depth and breadth of his treatment of the Martian environment and technology.
(Which has its own merits, but c’mon, this is a novel!)Click to read my reviews of the previous installments of Kim Stanley Robinson’s Mars trilogy series: Red Mars (#1) and Green Mars (#2)The SynopsisThe First Hundred have become The Final Twenty-Something as the early colonists of Mars have suffered through accidents, murder, isolation, intrigue, and two major political revolts.
Except Earth, who is playing the villain, trying to keep Mars bound to metanational corporation and capitalism, and destroy the primeval planet for its own nefarious ends, like, well, alleviating hunger, and population density.Somewhere in there, together with everything else, the author introduces the plot device of the Longevity Treatment, so that he can have the same characters reappear throughout the generation-long task of terraforming a planet.This Avatar-like scenario (except for the Martians, thank God) is brought to an all around successful conclusion in this current book, Blue Mars.
For me, this trilogy is one of those life-changing books - something you talk about, and think about years later.
So this is a book for those who want to ponder, brood, wonder, think, debate and discuss.What's to love?ACTION - there's a trip back to Earth, and the Martians come to the rescue.DESCRIPTION - lot's and lots and lots, but the scale is so HUGE it's cool.
But think about it, what kind of people would want to do that - no family, no friends - move to Mars, face possible death, not come back.
The accent here is put on the development of the natives, their society and also on the their relationship with Earth and the new colonized planets.It is not a light read, however, the way KSR imagined the development on Mars is highly interesting, with the focus not on action but on characters, which are analyzed in great detail.Some will find it boring, but it depends on what your expectations are: if you expect great action and suspense, aliens or turnabouts, then this is not for you.
But if you are interested in politics, economics, sociology and science, then it is a must read.

Prva knjiga koju sam ostavio iz ruku u životu jer nisam imao više živaca.. puž je za ovu radnju flash!
Sax and Ann are my OTP.
Like these other masterpieces, the Mars Trilogy is not just something you read, it's something you live, something that stays with you and changes you long after your eyes pass over the final sentences.As I noted in my review of Green Mars, the genius of the trilogy is that Kim Stanley Robinson combines hard SF, literary writing, and philosophical rumination to produce something beautiful -- maybe even something as sublime as Mars itself!Red Mars is about settling on Mars, while Green Mars is about becoming Martian.
The depth with which Kim Stanley Robinson (KSR) plumbs these dimensions is astounding.
The first two books in this trilogy had, as I've mentioned, reasonably compelling plotlines that were bogged down in extraneous detail.
I resorted to skipping huge passages, scanning for character names or dialogue, in hopes of narrowing in on something actually happening.And that's kind of unfortunate, because some of his turns of phrase are really quite beautiful and poetic.
Phyllis is the worst stereotype of a female executive, so power-hungry she'll step over or on anyone to get more of it.
Hiroko's a weird enigmatic mother earth figure who, despite what she'd probably tell you, pretty much doesn't play nice with others because she simply doesn't give a shit about what anyone else thinks about anything.
Warning: May contain spoilers from Red/Green Mars.The final chapter in the saga of Martian colonization is by far the weakest.
You'll probably want to read it if you read the first two, just to round out the story, but it's not the most exciting read, and doesn't really give the resolution you might hope for.The book starts out near the end of the second Martial revolution.
I think maybe Kim Stanley Robinson was trying to show the Martian lifestyle that he had imagined his characters would build, with all it's ups and downs, but I can imagine that myself.
I think that I have read this series in its entirety six times.
In my opinion, any astronaut or colonist who leaves earth for Mars should be required to read this series.
Between my fascination with sci-fi and Mars, combined with some top-notch character development/interaction along with some really great socioeconomic theory (no where near as boring as it sounds) this is my most favourite series, hands down.One thing that I have always enjoyed about KSR's writing is the attention he puts into his characters and their development.
I've loved this series.
I find it just incredibly hopeful for the future of mankind--with all our foibles and faults--and for the possibilities that getting off this rock would open up to us.
But I also love the way in which age functions in these books, and how Robinson imagines what a sudden boon in longevity would mean for us, both culturally and individually.
So much of what's imagined here feels possible, if not probable (as is always for me the case with Robinson's work).
Get me to Mars.
I want to grow up to be a centuries-old woman flying its skies in a birdsuit.
Robinson cierra la trilogía sobre Marte de manera brillante. Las ideas de este hombre parecen no tener fin. Es casi como si hubiese viajado al futuro para volver y contarnos lo que ha visto. Apasionante.
review to come :)
But in the end the story isn't cohesive enough to actually leave the reader with any idea what the point of the story was.
In book 1 we were introduced to a number of different characters which we have followed throughout the series, and we've seen how they've responded to different situations that have taken place politically and environmentally as Mars is colonized.
But as far as I can tell that is the plot, there is the overall story of how Mars is changed and how it in turn changes those living on it but is that enough to actually call this a story?
So the journey of many long m-years comes to an end.As convenient a story device it is to have life extension make the same characters accompany us for so long, the duration engenders an attachment of its own as it must have among the first 100 themselves.
The commitment pays off.With the planet unrecognizably changed it has lost some of its lustre as a main character.
But then you find out that the Mars trilogy actually is not about the planet but about politics.
Naive as they may be KSR's politics are the most advanced in the genre maybe even in all of fiction.
