https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/10882.Hell_s_Angels
Because it was so involved, it took me a while to get into Hunter Thompson's cool, cynical, totally-detached own year-long involvement with the Angels, whose beer, drugs and addiction to speed he was happy to share, but the rest was left behind when he drove home to his wife and child.
Although 40 years separate these books there is an enjoyable synchronicity between them - some of Thompson's characters turn up in Dobyn's book, and the philosophy or politics of rejection by society's rejects remains the same.Stunning writing.
Oh to write like that, like an angel....Damn' good read.
They all love him, it seems, so just make a trip to some hipster café, open one if his books and wait to score.I didn’t go for the obvious “Fear and Loathing in Las Vegas” but instead I read his debut, a non-fiction account of his time spent the Hell’s Angels, a motorcycle gang.
Of course, these days they are most often used for creating a comic effect when a big dangerous bearded thug turns out to be really fond of puppies and wouldn’t hurt a fly.It seems that demythologising of Hell’s Angels (and some other motorcycle gangs) was Thompson’s main goal in this book.
I felt this was just too long. I don't want to read a 300 page magazine article that doesn't have a cohesive story.
How naïve and simple am I?So what wicked monsters wait for us in the future to render our current perils dust bunnies in a dollhouse?Hell’s Angels is important, like all of Thompson’s writing, for his uncanny ability to summarize the consequence of whatever it is he has set his special acuity upon, this case motorcycle gangs.
A well rounded survey of the gang in their forrays, their ramblings, their symbols, their coverage, and their blunders too.Matching Soundtrack : Peasantry Or 'Light! Inside of Light!' - GSY!BE
The guy was a major American prose stylist.
Hunter doesn't get nearly enough credit for being the very intelligent guy he was, and that intelligence is very visible in this book, written before the character of Hunter Thompson was developed enough to get in between the text and the reader.
The guy simply knows his shit.
If somebody hasn't written a thesis comparing Hunter to Mark Twain yet, they should.
If you scoff at that, go read "Life on the Mississippi" and then call me.
Also, Hunter was a very good, very professional journalist.
This was the first hunter Thompson book I ever read and made me an instant fan of his work.Talk about a man who wanted to see the world from every angle.
The scene I remember most was when he talked about the Angels getting hooked on acid.
It was one thing they had in common with the hippies they hated, the difference being the angels didn’t necessarily take LSD because they loved its effects.
While the merry pranksters were all about the hallucinations, the angels only took it because it was the cheapest drug they could find and any high was better than being sober.
I thought he'd been using too much acid and casually observing too many gang-rapes to have any room to speak there, but I imagine Mr. Thompson disagreed.)The casualness of his attitude towards the Hell's Angels' violence against women and outright misogyny is only surpassed by his casual embrace of their racism.
(Maybe the rest of the press did, too.) Thompson does like to point to the three or four Angels affiliates who don't happen to be white, even though he writes clearly later in the book that one in particular will never get in because he's black.
Repetitive, circular and mostly boring, this is in no way worth reading.I had a little fun with Thompson's light jabs at Kesey - and having just read The Electric Kool-Aid Acid Test, I found the part where the two stories overlap very interesting - and he's sortof got a theme in there about society at the edge of society and masculinity and whatever (like all motorcycle riders, Thompson had some real questions about whether his dick was big enough) but if you can track down the magazine article, that ought to do it.I also enjoyed the epilogue, during which (view spoiler)[Thompson finally gets the stomping you've been waiting for the whole time.
He was a nutbag druggie who liked to blow things up.The Hell's Angel's are crazy motherfuckers.
The Hell's Angels did provide security at Altamont, where one person was killed by an Angel (in self-defense).It is very fitting that Thompson got close to the Angels in order to write a book, Hell's Angels: A Strange and Terrible Saga (1969).
This book is definitely in the vein of Gonzo journalism—Thompson spends nearly a year with the Angels, drinking, going on runs, and having close encounters with the lawmen.Don't expect to read about some elaborate ritual where Thompson gets initiated into the gang.
Drinking with the bikies21 April 2012 I had been meaning to read this book for quite a while; ever since a friend of mine mentioned it to me years ago. Penguin then decided to release a number of books in a new mass market format, similar to their original releases back in the early days of the company. The books that they released in this new format were inexpensive and were collected from various authors throughout history. I actually appreciated this because they selected a lot of lesser know
I say 'dodgy' because in many ways they are not the sort of books that the average middle class reader would pick up and read, but then again the average middle class reader is likely to pick up and read airport trash (though this is not strictly the case, particularly with some of the avid readers that I know at work).
I had read Thompson before (Fear and Loathing in Las Vegas) and I must admit that I found that book really amusing, however this was the first time that I had decided to return to his writings to see what he was like with his other books.
LOVED Even though it must be taken with a pinch of salt
“To see the Hell’s Angels as caretakers of the old ‘individualist’ tradition ‘that made this country great’ is only a painless way to get around seeing them for what they really are - not some romantic leftover, but the first wave of a future...The Angels are prototypes.
They insist and seem to believe that the swastika fetish is no more than an anti-social joke, a guaranteed gimmick to bug the squares...if they wanted to be artful about bugging the squares they would drop the swastikas and decorate their bikes with the hammer and sickle.
They accept him, but he has seen acceptance of outsiders turn on a dime, so he is careful in his demeanor, how he shares beer, stays useful and keeps a distance.You learn the Angel attitude and where it came from.
You see their racial attitudes, alcohol and drug use, how they buried their members, how they fascinated the public and their early experiences with California’s academics, artists and activists.I was interested in the pre-Gonzo Thompson and found him to be a serious reporter.
This may be the first use, in print, of the Thompson cachet “fear and loathing”.I highly recommend this book for general readers interested in this topic or time.
We know they are prone to exaggerating/making up stuff, but it is really surprising just how much bullshit they got away with writing about the Angels.
The book also seems to be a nature documentary too, describing angels as if they were animals.Hunter S.
Thompson spends a lot of his time on edge, ready to leg it at the slightest chance of danger, being with Hell's Angels means he was on edge the whole time, even winding up his windows when sleeping in his car so they couldn't get to him.
Almost gave this 5 stars but HST padded the final 100 pages with about 50 unnecessary pages full of statistics, fantasies, and a ridiculous chapter on a riot in a Sierra national park that never occurs .The rest of the book is just about perfect.You can see in this, his first book that Hunter S. Thompson emerged on the publishing scene a true flame breathing dragon of a journalist.Highest Recommendation.
Still the best book about bikers ever written - and completely unromanticized, too. Their lifestyle is shown in all its greasy and grimy glory. And Hunter took a bad stomping at the end of the book by some vicious Angels. Written over forty years ago and still rawer than a lot of shit out there!
***SPOILERS ALERT***Hell’s Angel’s is an account of the exaggerated myths, the terrible truths, the origins, motivations and the ethos of the motorcycle gang that terrorized American cities and small towns in the 1960s.
While he is mostly sympathetic to their cause (which involves getting riding across the country on motorcycles, getting stone drunk and occasionally raping women), he does admit that he would have pulled a gun if the Angel’s ever rode into the town where he lived.
They command a fascination, however reluctant, that borders on psychic masturbation.” In the end, this book is about Hunter.S.Thompson as much as it is about the Hell’s Angels.
'Hell's Angels' was a book I think I may have read many decades back but I wasn't sure about that either.
Thompson's reportage struck chords with me and I had music in my head on many occasions while reading this book.
In that time I should have been killed on at least a few occasions.
The motorcycle black madonna two-wheeled gypsy queen and her silver-studded phantom causethe gray flannel dwarf to scream.
As he weeps to wicked birds of prey who pick up on his bread crumb sins.Hell's angels, if you think you need a better world why don't you just make one like the Hell's Angels.
Luckily, he does treat the reader to one long 'run' (H.A. party), some incredibly graphic sex parties, good quality HST filthily poetic prose, his version of partying with Ken Kesey and the Merry Pranksters, a great Thompsonian introduction, and one of the most memorable book endings I've ever read.
I doubt the average reader would really want to give this thing four stars, but if you're an HST fan, beatnik fan, adrenaline junkie, Hell's Angels afficionado, druggie, pothead, alternative culture fan, historian or pothead; give 'er a read!Some memorable passages: On Rape:~ Nobody is objective about rape.
I love Hunter S., and granted, this is his first book, and I love books written about this time, and there's great insight and observations and great writing and all, but I got halfway through this book more than once and (granted again, this was during my A.D.D. phase where I couldn't finish any book, I usually had 4-6 books going at the same time and never finished any of them) didn't reach the end.
Tom Wolfe took Hunter's recorded tapes from that time to help him write The Electric Kool-Aid Acid Test, which I need to reread having finally finished Hell's Angels.
The kind of history story with great writing.
Rape, lead pipe to the teeth, gang bangs, LSD, motorcycle outlaws roaming across California.
The result of Hunter's "strange and terrible saga" was his book Hell's Angels and a savage beating stopped just short of having his head caved in with a massive rock.
Luckily, he was not brained.The book reads like a massive magazine article, spattered with person experiences, and occasionally graced with socio-philosophical insights.
Despite the drug induced mania, Hunter upheld his integrity as a reporter.
Hunter became too immersed.
The outlaw motorcycle culture was starting to consume him.
Yet, the book is a supreme illustration of Gonzo journalism--disregarding all boundaries except honesty (within reason).
While he never coins the phrase, the HELL'S ANGELS can be seen as a study in the "banality of hooliganism." The long stretch where HST does a play by play of the party at Bear Lake illustrates just how absurd the whole game of cat and mouse becomes - where the most dangerous thing are the "squares" armed to the teeth and those teeth floating in a bile of pent up fearful rage.
HST's book is an artifact to a time when America was still outraged by the unkempt appearance of the Hell's Angels, before the "look" became ubiquitous.
Finally one of the boys spoke to a lean, bearded outlaw named Gut: "we like your bikes, man.
At that time, in the middle of the Civil Rights movement and the beginning of Vietnam, they were a convenient symbol for the chaos that was about to be unleashed: "the first wave of a future that nothing in our history has prepared us to cope with." And Thompson wasn't the only person to pick up on this- what surprised me most was his unlikely account of the Hell's Angels becoming national media stars- giving press conferences, being asked for comment on the big issues of the day.
Thompson saw Trumpism coming in his expose of the Hell's Angels.
Reading about the surface tale of debauchery and violence you can see that Thompson saw in the postwar biker gang the people who were to be shut out of the rising hi-tech service economy and they were pissed.
Behind the hedonism celebrated by both groups at the time, these biker dudes had a real gripe with the world that shut them out and it fueled their visceral violent nihilism and their ethic of total retaliation.
The book closes in the end with Angels stomping on Vietnam protestors they weren't on the hippies' side at all but precisely the opposite.
Well, Mr. Thompson I have to say that as a piece of investigative gonzo journalism, I think I finally feel a little let down by your critique of the Hell's Angels.
While it's shown, it seems like you observe and report instead of pressing so the reader could understand.
I understand this was a period of free love, but unfortunately after reading it I have a feeling of excusing behavior like "women were asking for it by hanging out with those hooligans." A large part of this work is a critique on the press, while hanging out with the Hell's Angels however, I feel this oversight is inexcusable.
Most of the early pages of AGW are devoted to his new book Hell’s Angels, and the trouble he got into toward the end of it.
Long story kinda short: Hunter was a broke magazine writer that wrote an article about the Hell’s Angels.
The book starts off as Thompson has embedded himself with the Hell’s Angels on a wild Labor Day weekend run.
The books reads more like 6 or 7 really long magazine articles on the same subject matter.
Thompson rode and hung with the Angels for a couple of years, and he presents them, at the height of their notoriety, through his own cynical, paranoiac freak prism.
But then, that book, ironically, probably would have been a skewed and misleading picture, for the Angels wouldn’t have allowed it.
Thompson’s wild ride includes a lot of scary stuff – the Angel who likes to pull out victims’ teeth with a rusty wrench is a particularly effective picture – and ends with violence.
Twenty-five years later, though its subject may have waned, this book still stands out as effective and vivid journalism.

Motorcycles! Booze! Violence! Debauchery! Coming to a Southern California town near you! I could only read two thirds of this, but what I did read was super well written and very intense. As non-fiction, which I have a bias against and don't find all that interesting, it tends to get a little newspapery and repetitive. While Hunter probably writes the best journalism ever it is still journalism, so thank god it's gonzo. Worth checking out for serious fans of HST and biker gangs.
