https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1617875.My_Best_Friend_s_Girl
Odlična knjiga (ne zato što sam je ja odabrala i bila joj urednik)...
:) Ova autorka je bila veoma prijatno iznenađenje za mene...
I jedna od retkih "ženskih" knjiga koju odlično pamtim i posle toliko godina otkako sam je čitala...
:) A zbog posla čitam hrpu tekstova godišnje, od kojih 90% nikada ne budu prevedeni i objavljeni kod nas, tako da je realno da se ne sećam baš svakog sadržaja već da pamtim "opšti dojam"...
:) Ovo je komercijalna autorka A klase...Dirljiva priča, životna, guta se u dahu...
"My Best Friend's Girl" was a LOT better than I'd expected it to be.
I don't know why I wasn't expecting too much of it - I mean, after all I bought it, surely I must have felt it was worth reading?
I think my problem is that I'd gotten to the point where I felt good chick-lit is hard to find, and that this one would be as shallow as the rest.
It's an extremely moving story and one that has you guessing right to the very end.
I ended up loving the characters and simply couldn't put the book down.
After finding out all this shocking information, Kamryn decides she wants nothing to do with either of them and it's now time to move on with her own life.Two years later, Kamryn is all excited about celebrating her birthday and greets the mailman as she knows there will be a few cards for her, but her excitement soon fades when she opens one of the cards and quickly discovers it's from, Adele.
Adele has leukemia and is dying and knows she hasn't got much more time left, but she needs to make sure the one person in her life is taken care of and that is her five year old daughter, Tegan.
Gostei da construção e do desenvolvimento das personagens e, apesar, de ter adivinhado o final feliz, não posso dizer que não me tenha agradado comprovar que a vida das protagonistas seguiu um rumo muito satisfatório após ter sido abalroada por uma morte inesperada e castradora como o é qualquer desaparecimento trágico de alguém que nos é muito próximo.Não estarei a revelar demasiado se disser que a narrativa arranca com a morte da melhor amiga de Kamryn – Adele – e que esta lhe pede encarecidamente que tome conta e mais tarde adopte a sua filha de cinco anos.
Started out amazing.
I cried buckets over the first couple of chapters.
Then it turned into a bad soapie, with far-fetched scenarios (the boss decides to spend the weekend at the girl's house because he likes the kid, even though he despises her, because he's got "nothing better to do"?
I don't think so!).
The main character was annoying and made stupid decisions.
Her confusion over whether she loves one guy more than another was also stupid and annoying.
I like chick-fic books but this one, apart from the opening chapters, was a waste of time.
Duas amigas, as suas cumplicidades e infelicidades.Durante quase toda a segunda parte do livro somos confrontados com uma questão premente: “PORQUÊ?”.
Ryn remói aquela sensação que lhe pesa permanentemente, de não mais ter a oportunidade de falar ou de deixar falar e de perdoar.
Esta mensagem que nos é passada é clara.Senti uma ou outra atitude pouco credíveis, ficamos com aquela sensação que na vida real dificilmente aconteceriam.
Achei que todos eles eram, de alguma forma, desonestos, consigo próprios e com os outros.
Nas últimas páginas, finalmente, ganham juízo.Gostei, mas as expectativas eram elevadas devido às tantas opiniões excelentes que tinha lido.
"I was laughing and crying from page one." - Adele Parks This book exceeded my expectations. I fell in love with the blurb and it urged me to buy it but I never thought I could fall in love more than I already am. It was a perfect mix of a heart-warming and gut-wrenching story. I thought I knew how the story would roll and that I would just need to be filled with the little gaps in between but I was wrong. I never even guessed the ending.Koomson did a perfect job in characterization because the
I was already struggling to stop myself from crying after I've read the prologue and to think that this book has 437 pages was scary.
I suppose, this came from her mother and I wish we knew more of Adele but then I have to remind myself that this story is about Kamryn's journey towards acceptance, grief, forgiveness and happiness.
(Maybe that's just me and the sore issue about infidelity)As what Adele Parks said in the cover of the book, this has made me laugh and cry repeatedly since I started reading it.
Dobra knjiga o prijateljstvu, onom pravom, o gubitku povjerenja, povrijeđenosti, bježanju, vraćanju, žalosti i žalovanju, o ljubavi.Univerzalni komentar za ovu knjigu bio je- pripremite maramice.
Možda baš zato što su te maramice toliko puta naglašene, možda ih zato ja nisam trebala.
Nisam se mogla pretjerano povezati s karakterima glavnih junakinja, ni s Adele a još manje s Kamryn, iako sam i sama introvert i nepovjerljivog karaktera, Kamryn mi karakterom nikako nije "sjela".
Nije mi uvjerljiva tolika količina nesigurnosti i samokritičnosti u odrasle osobe, to mi je više svojstveno tinejdžerima, do najkasnije 20 godina..
About a quarter of the way through this book, I almost decided not to read the rest of it, which is very unusual for me.
Before long, Nate comes back into the picture, and Kamryn's relationship with Luke is threatened, both by Nate and by Luke's feelings for a former fiance.
Luke came across as a really nice sympathetic guy most of the time, but it was hard to get past how nasty he was to Kamryn when they met, and the way he made derogatory comments about her looks and weight when they first met.
Quando finalmente chega o dia, e Kamryn se encontra rodeada de mil preparativos para o dia perfeito, recebe uma prenda inesperada da sua melhor amiga, com quem não mantém contacto há anos.O dia de Kamryn altera-se de um segundo para o outro.A vida de Kamryn sofre uma reviravolta imprevisível.Ao observar a luta interna de Kamryn, senti-me próxima da personagem, senti a revolta, a angústia, o receio.
Apercebi-me que poderia ser uma familiar, uma amiga próxima, alguém que tenta dar o melhor de si e luta por um dia-a-dia perfeito de outro alguém.A escritora lembra-nos, ao longo do livro, que afinal de contas, não temos todo o tempo do mundo.
É sempre bom voltar à escrita de Dorothy Koomson, uma escrita fluida que rapidamente cativa o leitor e lhe transmite emoções muito variadas. A autora escreve sempre com muito humor, embora não deixe de nos provocar lágrimas e sorrisos.Opinião completa: http://quandoseabreumlivro.blogspot.p...Livro pertencente ao Clube BlogRing do My Imaginarium. Obrigada à Maria pelo empréstimo!
This book is a fabulous read!!! Very moving - the charachters are so real that you feel for them and their pain.Its a great story line and sometimes I was thought I knew how it would end but I didn't. I cried lots and laughed a bit too but couldnt put it down and felt like I had lost a friend when it finished. Would definately recommned.
Da postoji veca ocijena, ova knjiga bi je dobila! Prepreprepreprelijepa knjiga i odusevljena sam! Od prve do posljednje stranice... Ogromna preporuka. <3
It takes a special kind of book to bring tears to your eyes - I can count on one hand the amount of books that have made me shed tears in their wake, this being one of the first.Best friends Adele and Kamryn are inseperable in their formative years; until one makes the terrible decision to sleep with the others fiance.
Picking up a few years later, Adele shows up at Kamryn's door begging her to adopt her little girl.It is easy to see why this novel became so successful, and an international bestseller.
This is not a love story in terms of romance - its a different type of love, perhaps the most forgiving.
Nakon toga ih Kam briše iz svog života i zaklinje se da više nikada neće razgovarati sa njima niti imati djecu.
Roman je prožet dirljivim scenama i preprekama s kojima se Kam susreće svaki dan.
Zahvaljujući Tegan ona pronalazi novu ljubav ali i susreće Teganina oca.
Za ovaj roman 5/5 zbog toga što je ovo jedna životna i veoma dirljiva priča nakon koje niko ne ostaje ravnodušan, a onda i zbog toga što nije bilo likova koji su me živcirali i za koje sam poželjela da nestanu kao što se dešava u 90% pročitanih romana.
From the moment I finished it I felt that my rating for this book would be very different from the majority of my fellow readers.
I picked up this book from the small library at work, checked the premise, checked the reviews.
Unfortunately, in my opinion, after the major plot premise was confirmed the rest of the book didn't deliver after all that build up, falling in some moments into a caricature of what it could have been.
A fast read, especially in the first half of the book, I found myself fighting to finish it.For that I can only give it 2 Stars.
Θα μπορούσε άλλωστε κάποιος να πει ότι μόνο από την περίληψη έχουμε να κάνουμε με άλλη μια κλασική ιστορία απιστίας, όπου 2 φίλες διεκδικούν τον ίδιο άντρα, οπότε προς τι το τόσο ενδιαφέρον; Εδώ είναι όμως που η Κούμσον κλείνει το μάτι στον αναγνώστη γιατί κάθε άλλο παρά ρομαντική είναι η ιστορία της, κάθε άλλο παρά αντιζηλίας μεταξύ των ηρωΐδων και ατελείωτων αναλύσεων πάνω στα συναισθήματά τους και στο ποια είναι καλύτερη στο πλευρό αυτού του άντρα.
Στη συγκεκριμένη περίπτωση, η απάντηση δίνεται μέσα στις σελίδες του βιβλίου.Αυτό που μου άρεσε περισσότερο σε αυτό το βιβλίο αλλά και στο επόμενο της Κούμσον που διάβασα είναι ότι δικαιολογεί πάρα πολύ πειστικά τις πράξεις και τις αντιδράσεις των ηρώων της.
O enredo até chega a ser muito interessante, mas comparando aos outros livros da Dorothy este ficou muito aquém das expectativas.A Dorothy Koomson é das melhores escritoras para temas polémicos, sempre gostei dela por isso mesmo.
Além disso, ela possui uma escrita cativante e sem dúvida que só por isso qualquer livro dela conquista.
Este livro em especial, a escrita foi das únicas coisas que incentivou-me a continuar com a leitura.
A personagem principal sem dúvida que quando se falou na traição e tudo mais foi uma grande guerreira.
Recomendo o livro claro, não deixa de ser bom para explorar mais este género de temas e discutir.
Li este livro a uma velocidade incrível, comecei na 6ª à noite e no dia seguinte, ao início da noite, já estava terminado.É um livro muito tocante e comovente, tendo por várias vezes começado a chorar e outras a fazer um esforço para que tal não acontecesse.Na primeira parte do livro, Kamryn, após receber um postal de aniversário por parte de Adele, vai ter com ela ao hospital, nunca acreditando que Adele está tão doente.
Após a morte de Adele, Kamryn vê-se com uma criança nos braços e tem que aprender a lidar com a situação.O livro toca-nos no coração, devido à sua mensagem sobre o amor e perdão.
I expected high emotions and a great story, which is what I got.
I'll tell you why:At the beginning the interaction of Ryn and Del felt genuine and I enjoyed that.
All the way up to Ryn interacting with Tegan was great.
I just felt like the dynamics of Ryn and the men were just off somehow.
I don't know if I like it enough to give it 3 whole stars, but it was still good enough that I don't regret reading it.It's funny how I've not felt like this about a book in a while.
I just adore this book.
It’s the kind of book you wish you could lose sleep over so you could finish… it’s the kind of book you could forsace your social life just to flip it’s pages… If you ever took your life for granted and thought that you will stay the same for the rest of eternity… if you ever had a fight with someone and cut them off your life believing you will never cross their pass again… if you ever thought forgiveness was something beyond imaginable for a fatal mistake… if you cannot imagine your self becoming responsible for another human being overnight… This is the book for you… the message is loud and clear… Never Say Never!
The premise of the book is that the best friend slept with the main character's fiancee, causing the fiance and main character to break up.
Being that was a major plot point, I was ok with it, but when the main character told herself that it was ok, neither the former fiancee or former best friend loved the other, I got upset.
Then the main character seemed like she was going to sleep with someone, despite knowing he still loved his ex-fiancee and that he had just come form someone else's bed and I got fed up.
I've just re-read this, having originally read it nearly 10 years ago.
I had forgotten much of the detail but I can say this book was like a magnet, I couldn't look away.
It is a bittersweet tale of love, grief and relationships.
There are a number of sections in this book that pack such an emotional punch, that it takes your breath away and floods your eyes.
She hasn't spoken to her best friend Kamryn for two years.
This is the kind of read that sticks with you but I don't choose to read them all the time.
Very good book but very sad.29.08.2016Тази си остава най-добрата книга на Дороти Кумсън, която съм имала удоволствието да прочета досега.Поставя много тежки въпроси.
Ужасно е , когато хората които са най-близки за теб те предадат.
Каквато и причина да изтъкнат затова.Да, трябва да се прощава, но едва ли някой може да забрави.Това завинаги те оставя несигурен."Твърде много хора имат склонност към излишни откровения.Защо , за Бога, някой би искал да даде на друг човек такава власт над себе си?
Да допуснеш някого твърде близо до себе си, означава, че си просиш въпросният някой да ти забие нож в гърба един ден."
Uma história sobre uma amizade posta à prova. Seria capaz de perdoar um amigo que o traíu e magoou? Pode uma criança curar feridas passadas e fazer ressurgir a verdadeira amizade? Uma lição de vida! Fantástico!
Penosamente realista,  A Filha da Minha Melhor Amiga  explora, de forma muito emotiva e comovente, a dor que o diagnóstico oncológico, patologia tão infelizmente comum nos nossos dias, arrasta consigo e as ruínas que deixa à sua passagem. A história de uma bonita amizade entre duas mulheres, arrasada por uma traição condenável - a recuperação do que foi perdido; a restauração de sentimentos esquecidos. A libertação final. As injustiças da vida…e da morte. Vítima de leucemia, Adele não tem com qu
Dorothy Koomson acertou em cheio nas diversas perspectivas que criou através de um pequeno punhado de personagens criando uma história que é não só muito interessante mas também abrangente e inspiradora.
Koomson lembra-nos que não temos realmente, apesar da presunçosa forma de expressão, «todo o tempo do mundo»…Recorda-nos, recorrendo a uma perspectiva muito íntima a nível emocional, a importância de aproveitar cada momento e de prestar atenção a cada detalhe.
Prvo, tu je glavna junakinja Kamryn, koja je nesigurna u sebe, u svoja osećanja, iskompleksirana zbog debljine iz detinjstva i zbog toga što su je ismejavali, ali u isto vreme i isuviše samokritična i kruta baš zbog toga, stalno u raskoraku sa svojim željma i svojim mislima.
Kraj je priča za sebe – ako je cela knjiga prepuna nepotrebnih opisa koji se ponavljaju i po nekoliko puta, kraj je sažet u nekoliko redaka, kao da je autorici sve dosadilo i morala je priču zacvršiti što pre.Ipak bih dala ocenu 3, jer i pored svega, to je priča koja je mogla biti divan roman da nije sve ovo što sam nabrojila i da je stil pisanja bolji.

Već dugo nisam čitala knjigu nakon koje sam još dugo razmišljala. Inače nisam u zadnje vrijeme pobornik takvih knjiga,mislila sam da će ovo biti jedna kisela limunada,ali sam se ugodno iznenadila čitajući je. Topla priča o ljubavi, prijateljstvu i izboru praštanja. Moja preporuka za žene koje ne znaju praštati, ali i za one koje imaju jednu važnu prijateljicu u svom životu. Ili su je imali. :-)
This is a surprisingly sweet story. It looks like chicklit, and I think it certainly tried to sell itself as chicklit based on cover copy and design, but evades that genre with more sweetness and depth. Honestly, I could have done without Kamryn's romantic struggles and would have preferred to see more focus on her growing relationship with Tegan, her adopted daughter. The book was an overall enjoyable read, but I feel like it broke down at the end and felt false and rushed.
