https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/130957.Singin_and_Swingin_and_Gettin_Merry_Like_Christmas
This is Maya Angelou's third book of her autobiography series; Singin' and Swingin' and Gettin' Merry Like Christmas..
Whoa, now that's some seriously long title.
And now we get to know how Marguerite Johnson became Maya Angelou.
As the Singin' and Swingin' title suggests, she makes her debut as a professional singer and dancer which suits her pretty well.
Maya Angelou's Autobiographies:
1) I Know Why the Caged Bird Sings.2) Gather Together in My Name.3) Singin' and Swingin' and Gettin' Merry Like Christmas.4) The Heart of a Woman.5) All God's Children Need Traveling Shoes.6) A Song Flung Up to Heaven.
It could be, perhaps, that it was just me, so I am not necessarily berating this book, just admitting that it didn't work for me personally.In this memoir Maya begins her story by describing her experiences as a single young African American mother.
That job doesn't last long which is advantageous to Maya because she meets a group of singers that take a liking to her and soon she finds herself part of a singing traveling troupe called Porgy and Bess.
Now, most of the book is about Ms. Angelou's experiences in dancing and singing and traveling the world, and while it sounds like this should be the most exciting part of the book, it just didn't work for me.
We finally get to see some doors opening for her, and get to be amazed at how she takes every chance life throws at her, and how it almost always pays off.
I do, however, felt a bit overwhelmed by the many events and many different people described in this book.
The ending also felt a bit rushed.
But these hardships last only through a few paragraphs, which I'm sure it's very different from how it happened in her life.Anyway, I'm both excited and nervous for what's to come in the next chapters
This woman blows me away with her honesty, sharing her struggle to grow into the magnificent woman and writer she is today.I was shocked and surprised at many of her stories and humbled.
These books should be assigned reading in school.With each famous person I read about, again and again, I am reminded that the person they became was not how they started out nor is it the whole story.
The people I most admire are those who grew and changed and transcended sometimes horrific events and seemingly insurmountable challenges.Most often, they never had a plan to travel to where they finally ended up.
From BBC radio 4 Extra:Single mother Maya loves music. She meets and marries former sailor Tosh in the record shop where she works, though troubled waters lay ahead.Maya's Angelou's third volume of vivid memoirs set in the early 1950'sDramatised by Winsome PinnockNARRATOR - Older Maya .... Adjoa AndohMAYA .... Pippa Bennett-WarnerTOSH .... Jamie DemetriouVIVIAN BAXTER .... Ellen ThomasCLYDE .... Tumo ReetsangPREACHER .... Steve ToussaintDirector: Pauline HarrisFirst broadcast in five parts on BBC Radio 4 in October 2018.https://www.bbc.co.uk/programmes/b0bm...
In the 1950s, unmarried, in her twenties, and the mother of a young son, she meets her first husband, a Greek American, while working as a salesclerk in a record store, in California.
She is eloquent, learned, has read an enormous amount of books, and as a young woman she had guts, confidence, and the desire like a burning fever inside to change her life for the better.
Leaving her son to be cared for by her mother, she tried out for a play in New York City, and was hired.
You will admire her strength and her passion for a career and love for her son.
Up to that point, she called herself "Marguerite Johnson", or "Rita", but changed her professional name to "Maya Angelou" when her managers at San Francisco nightclub The Purple Onion strongly suggested that she adopt a "more theatrical" name that captured the feel of her Calypso dance performances.In the late 1950s, she joined the Harlem Writers Guild, where she met a number of important African American authors, including her friend and mentor James Baldwin.
She co-created a dance team, "Al and Rita", with Ailey, who combined elements of modern dance, ballet, and West African tribal dancing.
In a recent conversation about the writing of Maya Angelou, another writer friend of mine thought you could open an Angelou book to any page and find a brilliant quote on each one.
The lonely men whose hands played with their pocketed dreams slowly gave way to a few laughing open-faced couples who simply came in to watch the show." Describing men masturbating in a strip club as "hands played with their pocketed dreams" paints a brilliant image, just as my friend opined, doesn't it?Maya Angelou's work will inspire readers, poets, novelists, and artists of many stripes, for a long time to come.
She experiences her first marriage (and divorce), singing and dancing at nightclubs, a few more odd jobs, all culminating in her acceptance into the ensemble of the international tour of Porgy and Bess.
is focused on the many adventures Maya accumulates in the foreign spots on the tour.
For all the joy and fun on tour, there are still missteps and heartbreaks along the way-most importantly, the guilt Maya feels over "abandoning" her son to go abroad.
Another enjoyable addition in Maya Angelou's autobiography series that explores her artistic lifestyle and the sacrifices that come with it.
Once again, miss Maya Angelou managed to enchant my world ❤ This woman's life was such an inspiring and touching testament. When you read one of her books, it's like you're listening to an older, much more wiser friend of yours that shares with you the greatest secret of the universe. I recommended her books for a while now, and of course this one will be added to that list.
Once again, miss Maya Angelou managed to enchant my world ❤️ This woman's life was such an inspiring and touching testament. When you read one of her books, it's like you're listening to an older, much more wiser friend of yours that shares with you the greatest secret of the universe. I recommended her books for a while now, and of course this one will be added to that list.
This one was super difficult to put down with her descriptions of travel and life abroad. Anxious to read part 4.
Eventually the other dancers — jealous and suspicious — force her out — but fortunately her talent as a dancer has been “noticed.” From there, she takes the place of a white singer at a hip San Francisco night club, and later moves to New York and joins the cast of Porgy and Bess as a dancer for its international tour.
Yet - she does make friends — and experiences something completely new — loving acceptance by (white) Europeans in Italy and France, and — a highlight of the book — behind the Iron Curtain in Yugoslavia.
What a life. What a writer. She makes words sing.
Yes I really enjoyed this booked and will probably look at reading some more of Maya's books.
what a woman, what a life! "why a caged bird sings" is only a tiny snippet into her life. the rest of the books are fast-paced page turning never-boring stories. she has style, charisma, grit and an uncanny ability to bounce back from the darkest moments. her poetic writing style is an added bonus. read on!
In ways the previous books hadn't this brought home to me how very constant the author's awareness is of her colour.
In the same way that a mafia boss sees the world made up of dangers and schmucks, I think Ms Angelou's world is made up of blacks and whites and rather extreme versions of both.
The school my son goes to has a background of 79% other than english spoken at home, so I'm dimly aware that there are other races around - it just has no impact on my life.
I feel that way about Ms Angelou's actual life.
I was initially attracted to this one because of the show business theme - I was interested to read about her experiences touring with Porgy and Bess.
Those sections were, in fact, very interesting.
Angelou describes moving from her relatively insulated life in the black community of San Francisco to her gradual exposure to the wider world.
Although she's traveling with a mostly Black American company of actors and singers, she is meeting people of many other nationalities and races as well, and describes with unflinching honesty her reactions to the people she meets and their reactions to her.
I first read this book in my early 20s, the same age as Maya is as she shares her life as a dancer, singer, actress, mother.
Of course, I was reminded me what an amazing, talented, brilliant, beautiful soul that was Maya Angelou.
I also appreciate the wisdom and grace that comes with age--which she continues to share in her body of work as a poet and writer.
Her voice still resonates with honesty and courage and reminds us to value ourselves.
I'll always be grateful for the beauty she added to the world by her life, her work, and her faith.
I enjoyed this book so much better than Gather Together In My Name, but I kinda felt like it started dragging in the middle.
No wonder Maya Angelou could write a six part autobiography though, she's lived an amazing life!
I love the honest, witty way that she writes, without any embarrassment or explanation.
She's been through a lot of bad stuff, but instead of whining about it and justifying everything, she's just like "here's what happened, and if you don't like it, too bad" I really like that about her, because I always find myself trying to explain everything and I wish I could be more unapologetic.
I really enjoyed this story also because the bulk of it took place traveling around the world.
Oh man, did you know Maya Angelou was a showgirl? Or that she toured with a production of Porgy and Bess throughout Europe and Egypt? Or that her son was named Clyde, but he decided to rename himself Guy and everyone in the family just went along with it? These are the cool things I learned from this memoir of her early twenties. And, of course, she is just a beautiful writer. Thoroughly enjoyed it.
Third volume of Maya Angelou's biography. This one is more fun. She has a lousy marriage and then travels the world with Porgy and Bess.
Maya Angelou's beauty shines through her writing... When she narrates her life story, you can't help but be transported into her world, feel what she felt.. A phenomenal woman.
This was my least favorite of her autobiographical series. It just didn't seem to have the depth and personal struggle as the others do. Still a must read if you're going to complete the rest.
This is the third of Maya Angelou’s series of autobiographies.
There follows Angelou’s development as a singer and dancer, working in a variety of night clubs.
Finally she tours Europe with a production of Porgy and Bess.
The descriptions of bars and night clubs and those who work in them give a flavour of the times.
The touring company with Porgy and Bess provide some lively and amusing moments; amorous encounters, problems with hotels and travel and cultural misunderstandings.
Maya Angelou is immensely engaging and this is an autobiographical series well worth reading.
I have spent the month of April in total immersion, whilst on my own trips, across continents, plains and cities she has kept me company!
In this work she wears her heart on her sleeve, and possibly because closer to her youth, the experiences recounted here still sound fresh, inviting, exciting and lived through someone who has just seen them.
The description of people in Porgy and Bess is so precise, it is just sheer pleasure to conjure them up in images through her words, like brush strokes on a canvas.
I just love her frank way of looking at things, her self-deprecation, her good humor.
This volume was especially interesting because it tells of her rising stardom as she joins a touring production of Porgy and Bess.
Firstly, her perspective as a black woman in the US in the '50s and '60s whose life started humbly (to say the least) and starts seeing her fortunes rise is unique, and then some of her adventures traveling during the Cold War are fascinating."Ruby Green was terrified of flying, so I had asked to be her seat companion.
I love it!
I read this 3rd book in Maya Angelou's series of autobiographical books in quick succession after the last two...
once again, it moves at a 100 miles per hour, packing in more life into these few years of her life than most can hope to live in a lifetime...
one rejoices for the happy well-deserved break Maya Angelou finally gets in this book while also grappling with motherhood & confines of domesticity...
for a good chunk of the book, it almost reads like a travelogue, hopping across countries and cities, and somewhere in this outward-facing narrative, some of the heart-wrenching tone goes missing...so I rate this a 4.0 vs.
the previous books' 5.0 rating..
In this third installment of her life story, Maya Angelou tells of her beginning attempts of living as an adult and supporting her son by herself.
She finds she can sing and dance but still needed help of her family.
She begins to sing at small clubs and then dance at at strip club.
She then is able to combine her singing and dancing to a job in Porgy and Bess.
When the troop gets the chance to tour Europe and Africa she must leave her son with her mother again.
The rest of the book is the story of their trip and her thoughts about each venue.
This book has been a wonderful journey and no less than the previous two parts.
Marguerite begins the book with the story of her marriage to a Greek sailor and eventual divorce.
Her son is growing up and to support her family and her child's future she joins a nightclub as a dancer.
Her irresistible talent lands her a part in the traveling troupe called Porgy and Bess.
Thus begins her amazing journey across various countries.
Maya's account of her travels draws the reader in and her love for her son shows through the pages.
I can't wait to read the next part.
As with the previous two books, Maya Angelou delighted me again with this third book of her autobiography - such a pleasure to read her emotional confession of thoughts, emotions, people surrounding her, with a funny, yet authentic tone. I was impressed mainly by the very last part of the story, which emphasized her lost and rebuilt relationship with her son - although not a mother, I was deeply moved by her recount of events, and the numbing guilt she felt because of her travelling singing and dancing career in Europe and Northern Africa and Middle East.
