https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/383200.Flowers_for_the_Judge
It was the exact sort of book I needed right at the time.
Allingham is another of those Golden Age Mystery writers I like to periodically read.
The last two were whimsical, the earlier ones were just plain bad & probably should have been suppressed in her later life.It wasn’t too hard to determine who the murderer was, but it was still a joy to continue reading to the end.
Allingham had an ear & eye for these sort of people and these minor characters are also one of the fun parts of reading her books.
Flowers for the Judge by Margery Allingham is the 7th Albert Campion mystery. A director in a family publishing house is found murdered in a locked cellar and when one of his cousins is arrested, Albert Campion is asked to investigate. I found this book a bit slow and confusing in parts and the murderer obvious. I did enjoy the courtroom scenes but the investigation was a bit drawn out.
However, there are two major flaws that stop the novel getting 4 stars - firstly, I'm not entirely sure why the first murder was actually done, as the grievance behind it seems so miniscule as to be almost pointless.
Secondly, it's pretty unbelievable that when the second murder occurs, everyone - including the police - seems to be willing to just ignore it and write it off as a suicide.
I'm pretty sure that doesn't happen and the novel therefore just seems to end.
A shame, as it had been a good crime novel up until then!
Certain his young friend is innocent and asked to investigate by Brande's neglected widow, Gina, Albert Campion tries to discover what really happened.
There is a flatness to Flowers for the Judge that hasn't been present in the other Campion books I've reread lately.
Mike and Gina, who are supposed to be the thwarted hero and heroine are instead cardboard cutouts.
The murderer is pompous and annoying but never particularly sinister.
This is a solid book, but not a particularly inspiring one.[Copied across from Library Thing; 25 September 2012]
An arrest and trialtrial - again not one of my favoured styles of detective stories One of hte main characters in the story would probably be read today as autistic, although I'm not sure if that was the source of Allingham's characterisation here.Campion is again feeling his age here, and while he still has occasional moments of fun, he's a far more serious person than the one we first met.
I don't think I've ever encountered a novel that was not only set in a publishing house, but actually had books serving important plot point, which displayed so little interest in books.
In this book, the characterisation, plotting, and atmospheric description of buildings and places, combine to make a very fine piece of fiction.The plot centres on a family publishing business currently in the hands of John Widdowson, Paul Brande and Mike Wedgewood, all nephews of the founder.
The case against him, though circumstantial, is strong, Campion is convinced of his innocence and sets out to find the murderer.There are in this book two great set-pieces, the Inquest, in a chapter entitled “ Inquisition”,and the trial.
The unthinkable: An Allingham I'd thought I'd read but hadn't.
This has a lovely, quirky "solution", but what I love about this Campion is that Allingham is starting to get more descriptive in her prose.
"There was a trimness about the whole building and a preponderance of bright colors ..." "The paint was green, the curtains blue, the window sills and step red-ochred, while a ridiculous little green dog kennel stood beside the door.
It looked extraordinarily clean and new in the dinginess of Kilburn and no more in bad taste than a painted Noah's Ark, which it resembled." I find that a perfect descriptive passage, not too fussy, just right.
I liked this one but it did drag in spots. The courtroom scenes held promise but kind of fizzled. I liked the unexpected ending. I continue to enjoy Albert as one of my favorite literary detectives.
See: my review for The Crime At Black Dudley. It was comfortable read, but not so comfortable that I wasn't challenged by the mystery.
In Flowers for the Judge by Margery Allingham, the members of the Barnabus family publishing house ask family friend Albert Campion to help them because Paul Brande, the middle of the three partner cousins, disappeared three days earlier.
In addition, 20 years earlier, his older cousin Thomas Barnabus disappeared into thin air, to the witness of a newsman and a beat cop, never to be heard from again.
Things change a couple days later when a secretary of the publisher goes downstairs to the strong room and finds Paul’s body.
Pulling old favorites off the shelf again...
A musty old London publishing firm is run by a gaggle of eccentric cousins, nephews of the founder.
The most dynamic of the brood has a beautiful American wife whom he neglects shamefully; she has duly fallen in love with the youngest and least eccentric cousin.
His old friend Albert Campion has to prove he didn't do it.
The story has all the Allingham touches, the old Victorian fortunes in decline, the spooky, fog-bound London locales and peculiar characters, Campion's low-key contemplative sleuthing.
And Lugg, reformed Cockney cat burglar, censorious and dignified, watching Campion's back.
Having just listened to PD James' book on detective fiction, I decided to pick up a couple of authors that I either had not read, or had not read recently.
But he is still the aristocratic detective with ways and means not always easy for a professional detective to manage.
This mystery unfolds quickly in the very end, and I had to go back and re-read a section that literally had me wondering "where on earth did that come from?".
The courtroom scenes reminded me of "Witness for the Prosecution", in a positive way.
But the end of the book and resolution of the mystery was not bad!
This is a very solid detective novel with a locked room mystery at its core.
This novel is #7 in the Campion series but is set in 1931 and that probably puts it between Mystery Mile and the Chalice mystery.Unlike those two this a very serious detective novel with an abundance of comic relief .The comic relief mostly comes from the endeavours of Mr. Lugg to become a gents gent .
This book was simply superb. I fell in love 💘 with certain characters and was so sorry that the book ended. The ending was completely just and legally wrong. It was the perfect ending for a Campion novel. Ms. Allingham 's character development is flawless. Everything is important. Pay attention to the small details. Those small details are crucial to understanding the ending, the characters and what makes Albert Campion unique.
Allingham usually produces a tight plot with very fair clues to follow but this time I didn't find it fair. She set the story in a publishing house but didn't use that as a plot element except in the the most cursory way. The final plot twist was pretty farfetched. Not my favorite of her novels at all.
This was a wonderful book...Campion appears a little less strange but as always is surprisingly brilliant. He works his wonders without glory, always surprises those who don't know him, and gratifies those who do. This book had some particularly wonderful characters and a 20-year mystery that may or may not be uncovered...
too much court scenes, murder solved early on: characters at periphery, portraiture of, main attraction, and language of course - starting to be very mean to Lugg though, more than fits with modern perceptions of bandying words/badinage. 2 for slow pace due to too many court scenes
I don't know what it is about Margery Allingham and the Albert Campion mysteries. I always think I should like them and enjoy them more than I actually do. Still, this was my first public library audio download and worked perfectly.
Marjorie Allingham writes such a good story; always a bit of the unexpected at the end. Really enjoyed this and how she tied up all the loose ends.
I loved this very twisty turny Campion mystery.
Entertaining who done it first published in 1936. I liked it. Suspense with romantic undertones. Just wish the characters grabbed me a little more.
Book was OK. I found the plot line confusing and hard to follow.
I’ve always been fond of Lugg--there is a curious fascination with his character in all its eccentric flamboyance.In the chapter describing the Coroner’s inquest, aptly titled “Inquisition” Miss Allingham constructs the coroner’s case before our eyes, with a procession of well-defined characters.
It seems that there is a tradition in this British court to bring a fragrant nosegay for the judge, to sweeten the aromas that august personage is subjected to: perhaps a metaphor for the events of the story at hand.My thanks to Camilla of the Allingham Estate for making an advance copy of this book available for me to read and review.
Although this is the seventh Albert Campion book written, it was my first introduction to Allingham's gentleman sleuth and his former burglar manservant, Magersfontein Lugg.
This story begins with the strange disappearance of Tom Barnabas--a member of a family who owns a leading publishing house in London.
Universal uncle and friend to the family, Campion is called upon to investigate what happened to the missing cousin.
It is up to Campion to search through the family history to expose the murderer--but, as so often happens, he finds more than he bargained for.I remember being very taken with Albert Campion and Lugg.
"Flowers for the Judge" (1936) is Allingham's 7th novel in the amateur detective Albert Campion series.
Although Holmes is my personal favorite, I continue to enjoy Campion along with Poirot and even Charlie Chan as a few of my favorite literary detectives.In several ways, "Flowers for the Judge" is very similar to the earlier "Death of a Ghost," which is set among artists.
One of its directors Paul, who had gone missing days earlier, is discovered in a locked cellar strong-room; he has been dead for days."Flowers for the Judge" is not Allingham's best, nor is it her worst.
The murder mystery seems secondary to a study of personality types.
We cannot know more about the mysterious manuscript, the crooked collector, the many enemies of the murder victim, the criminal hobbies of the company employees or the malintent of the toothless woman, because these are fictional and existed only in the author's mind.To modern eyes, these are the bits of interest.
Back when the book was first written, the reverse was true.So why four stars?
It creates the world Campion and co.
live in, its prejudices and imperfections, in a way other Campion novels gloss over in order to explore the mystery.
Scandal hits the publishing house of Barnabas when one of the directors is found dead inside a locked cellar.
Campion is on hand to clear up the mystery and help protect the firm.The inquest into Paul's death takes an unexpected twist when the jury not only declare it to be murder but also that his cousin Mike is the guilty party.
Albert lets the murderer know he is on to him and is sent on a retrieval mission which almost ends disastrously.Not only does Campion solve the mystery of Mikes' death but also what happened to Tom Barnabas all those years ago.
The feel of this book is very similar to Death of a Ghost.
(view spoiler)[ In Death of a Ghost, the villain tries to kill Campion by getting him drunk enough that he could be pushed off a train track.
In this one, Campion goes to open a door in a room on the fourth floor of a building.
When the door sticks he originally plans to try to push with his shoulder but at the last minute changes his mind and kicks it.
Prior to this re-read I didn't remember why Campion was there or trying to open the door, but I did remember how he did it.
