https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/99107.Winnie_the_Pooh
Winnie-the-Pooh, light of my life, fire of my loins. My sin, my soul. Win-knee-the-Pooh: the tip of the lip taking a trip of three steps down the palate to return at four to kiss : Pooh. He was Pooh, plain Pooh, in the morning, standing eighteen inches in one sock. He was that scruffy old bear at school. He was Mr Winnie Pooh on the dotted line. But in my arms he was always Bear.
“Some people care too much. I think it's called love.”Since Winnie-the-Pooh is my favourite Disney movie, I decided to read book it's based on. Turns out it is one of my favourite books.It is so absolutely sweet and filled with smart humor. What I like most about Winnie-the-Pooh is this melancholic feeling you get while reading. I just really really love it so much. I will forever read this to my future children (or dogs. Depends.)Find more of my books on Instagram
I think it's a kind of Woozle, and it's playing Gulliverstravels.""Mmf!" said the creature again."You see," said Pooh, "I was right.
Well, if he is a Swift fan, I happen to have a little Hum, based on that well-known piece, A Modest Proposal, which I'm sure he will like."He cleared his throat, and was just about to start Humming, when who should turn up but Christopher Robin and Rabbit."Look, Christopher Robin!" said Pooh.
"We've found a Woozle, and we're playing Gulliverstravels!"Christopher Robin looked at the creature on the ground.
He glared at them for a while, and then muttered something about "one star" and "pouring sugar down your throat"."Oh yes!" said Pooh eagerly.
I'm calling it Hostile Reviewer's Breakfast.""Ah yes!" said Christopher Robin.
This time, with my children grown and living their own lives, I have no 'excuse' to read these stories again, but you know what?
What better way to spend a cold, dreary day than with Christopher Robin and Winnie the Pooh, being reminded of the many hours of joy they gave you and the great memories they bring back of special times spent reading these books to my own children?
Maybe the best thing, though, is seeing these diverse characters stand the test of time, and feeling at peace knowing these special and gentle stories will continue to delight children and their parents for many more generations to come!!
Most of the parents won't be impressed though, they prefer the Disney version ;-( And the kids - they are more into Peppa Pig and Doc McStuffins these days.The King asked The Queen, and The Queen asked The Dairymaid: "Could we have some butter for The Royal slice of bread?" The Queen asked the Dairymaid, The Dairymaid Said, "Certainly, I'll go and tell the cow Now Before she goes to bed." The Dairymaid She curtsied, And went and told the Alderney: "Don't forget the butter for The Royal slice of bread." The Alderney said sleepily: "You'd better tell His Majesty That many people nowadays Like marmalade Instead." The Dairymaid Said "Fancy!" And went to Her Majesty.
"Nobody," He whimpered, "Could call me A fussy man; I only want A little bit Of butter for My bread!" The Queen said, "There, there!" And went to The Dairymaid.
Book Review  Can you believe Winnie-the-Pooh by A.A. Milne is almost 100 years old? I was shocked when I found out... I thought it was from the 1950s or 1960s... nonetheless, it's an amazing memory. So many fun characters, great childhood moment and even some adult ones come from these books and the subsequent mass market media that came from them. It always had me wondering... what exactly is a "pooh," as in bear... Christopher Robin's made-up name, so it seems, came from a childhood bear and
Book Review
So many fun characters, great childhood moment and even some adult ones come from these books and the subsequent mass market media that came from them.
Christopher Robin's made-up name, so it seems, came from a childhood bear and the name of a swan.
I also never knew when I read this years ago that it was from an entire series.
I'm sure I read more, but I don't know specifically which ones!
Kids love animals.
Kids love talking animals.
here's the scoop: I read A LOT.
Many thanks to their original creators.[polldaddy poll=9729544][polldaddy poll=9719251]
The Winnie the Pooh books are great because everyone has some sort of problem. Pooh is painfully naïve, Piglet is neurotic, Owl is a narcissist, Eeyore has major depression, Tigger is hyperactive, Rabbit is a sociopath, and Kanga needs to spend an afternoon with The Feminine Mystique. It's good for kids to learn that pretty much anyone you meet will have some sort of major problem.
It has all the things that make for a fantastic children’s story.
Like The Lion, The Witch and The Wardrobe and Harry Potter there is a hidden world (a much better world) on the fringes of our own.
However, for all that, the Pooh stories are very simply written.
Unlike the two books I just mentioned, I don’t think there’s much beyond the basic humorous moments in this series.
I loved them as a child, and I enjoyed my re-read before going to the cinema to watch Disney’s recent film Christopher Robin.
If you liked Pooh as a child, I sincerely recommend watching it.
Truly a beautiful book! 😊
This is such a beautiful series and I had a great time the second time around. I can't wait to read this to my son someday-----------------------I was not expecting this to become a new favorite! It has a similar style to Peter Pan and it's SO FREAKING FUNNY! I loved this so much and am SO EXCITED to continue with the series!
My children and grandchildren love Winnie the Pooh and I must admit so do I.He's my favourite bear and there is so much wisdom in these books by A.A Milne.The stories from my childhood never seem to age and are loved by many children today both big and small. Pure nostalgia. 🐻
It is perfect for both adults and kids.
Although the lines and the vocabulary are actually better suited to adults, it works exceedingly well for both.
I listened to this with my husband, with not a child in sight, and we both loved it from start to finish.
We listened to the unabridged and unaltered audiobook version narrated by Peter Dennis.
This book gets better every time I read it.
Instead, listen to it narrated by Peter Dennis.
It isn’t.What was it like to be Christopher Robin?I can recommend these three books:The Enchanted PlacesThe Path through the TreesThe Hollow On The Hill: The Search For A Personal Philosophy
Celebrity Death Match versus Heart of Darkness.Dear Christopher Robin,Your father and I miss you but we feel that it would be best if you spent the remainder of the summer at camp, as previously agreed.
To think, all my friends in the bridge meetings have all-star athlete sons and honor roll daughters to brag about.
Your legs in those ridiculous little boy shorts are much too pale.Love,MumDear Christopher Robin,I have lost the passage of time at the bottom of this trunk.
Silly old bear, I will kill Kurtz and take his fiancee for myself (No, mom I am not gay).
In these characters, we see ourselves, we all know and Eeyore, the same as we all know a Rabbit – we are all in there somewhere, in some shape or form.A.A. Milnes Winnie-the-Pooh stories are just so simply and so well written, both collections are timeless classics – from the opening lines to the closing ones from the profoundly moving last chapter:“…So, they went off together.
Back at work after 10 days of vacay and my current mindset is a little summin' like this . . . .
Whenever I think of Winnie-the-Pooh, I think of an incredibly sweet melancholy.
Like, A.A Milne is not allowed to make me feel these feels in the form of a children's story book!"If you live to be a hundred, I want to live to be a hundred minus one day so I never have to live without you.""How lucky I am to have something that makes saying goodbye so hard."“Promise me you'll always remember: You're braver than you believe, and stronger than you seem, and smarter than you think.”“You can't stay in your corner of the Forest waiting for others to come to you.
And as an adult, you actually realize that A.A Milne is dishing out some pretty fantastic advice on life.
Following the resounding success of my Locus Quest, I faced a dilemma: which reading list to follow it up with? Variety is the spice of life, so I’ve decided to diversify and pursue six different lists simultaneously. This book falls into my BEDTIME STORIES list.I have a little boy and love reading to him, so this reading list will cover the classic (and new) children’s stories we’re enjoying together.My baby son is six months old and as part of his bedtime routine we're reading him stories. I
This book falls into my BEDTIME STORIES list.I have a little boy and love reading to him, so this reading list will cover the classic (and new) children’s stories we’re enjoying together.My baby son is six months old and as part of his bedtime routine we're reading him stories.
since I was very young myself - and despite a comfortable familiarity with the characters, Christopher-Robin, Pooh, Piglet, Eeyore, Rabit, Owl, Kanga and Roo...
I found myself wondering if I'd ever actually read the book before?I really liked it!
Despite these nonsense ramblings I've bowed to her demands and the next book we're reading our sprog is her choice, Enid Blyton's 
So that was sweet. <3 Short, simple, and absolutely precious. This brought me back to my childhood of watching Winnie-the-Pooh and visiting Disneyland. *happy sigh* Definitely recommend reading this right before you go to college, hehe. ;)
It's tough to read something this perfect and pure without feeling a bit like Milton's Satan, dismayed by just how far from true innocence and grace I've fallen.
Pooh gets shot for godsake!
Reading Winnie-the-Pooh again as a grown-up I've even developed an appreciation for Owl and Kanga (I will never like Eeyore and anyone that does needs to get those issues cleared up...no, stop typing a reply comment to this, just go right now to a specialist and we'll talk again in a few months).
However, as much as I may have missed as a kid just from mere misunderstanding, I would not have missed the important message of friendship and kindness...and I definitely would not have missed or misunderstood Pooh getting shot!
Read as part of The Infinite Variety Reading Challenge, based on the BBC's Big Read Poll of 2003.Winnie-the-Pooh is such an English Treasure, it seems impossible that I had never read it before, not in my childhood or in my adulthood.
As it is, we'll have to make do with Winnie-the-Pooh being a well written, very endearing but on the whole utterly boring story.I love all the characters: they have wonderful personalities and Eeyore is just the most adorable manic depressive I've ever encountered.
Sometimes they just Plod, if you know what I mean.
You have to say something of Very Great Importance, so that it will be Liked.” “Pooh," said Piglet helpfully, "if you wrote it I would like it anyway.”) But maybe there isn’t anything new I can say that hasn’t been said already.
For the Bear of Very Little Brain (AA Milne’s, not the vomitoriously cute Disney Pooh) is a wonderful and timeless creation.
Who could not fail to identify in some way with at least one of Pooh’s own meek, credulous, testy, pompous or depressed (you know who I mean!) friends?
A really wonderful collection of short tales that introduces the friends of Christopher Robin.From that silly little Bear who is fixated on honey to the nervous Piglet.I was quite surprised that Tigger doesn’t feature (he appears in the sequel).I was familiar with most of these stories having grown up with the Disney cartoons, Pooh getting stuck in holes being so iconic.This book also included some wonderful illustrations.My favourite character is Eeyore, I loved he’s birthday storyline!
Buscando en internet (lo que buscaba era el nombre del burro en inglés) me he topado con un montón de entradas en las que se analizan las personalidades de todos los personajes del libro, equiparándolas a diferentes enfermedades mentales.
Muchas entradas en tono de broma, hasta recomiendan que fármaco debería tomar cada personaje.
Vamos que si analizas el libro en ese sentido tiene mucha pero mucha miga, como casi todos los cuentos de hadas, cuentos infantiles y dibujos animados.
Like pretty much everyone else in the world I'd heard of WINNIE-THE-POOH.
I am so very glad I did.I've only read the first one so far, and, as expected, it is a wonderful children's story; but what I didn't realize was how uniquely well-written it is.
Admittedly the opening caught me off-guard and I had to re-read it twice to understand the point-of-view, but once I realized what Mr. Milne was doing, I loved it.Yes, the storytelling is simplistic.
Mr. Milne is obviously writing for a very young audience.
WINNIE-THE-POOH is a wonderful accomplishment, and deserves all of its accolades.
Thus the character who expresses all these ideas becomes Shakespeare’s mouthpiece and loses his own essence to the extent that his deeds do not correspond to his words.Hamlet’s personality is quite understandable in the story from which Shakespeare drew his play.
But by putting into Hamlet’s mouth those ideas which Shakespeare wants to tell the world, and by forcing him to perform those actions which Shakespeare needs for preparing the most effective scenes, the author destroys the character of the Hamlet of the legend.
I'm sorry to say it, I just wasn't impressed.I picked up this audiobook for free on World Book Day provided by Amazon.
While it wasn't all bad, it hasn't been my favorite audiobook.
As for the narration, Peter Dennis did fairly well with representing the characters we all know and love.
As for the novel and stories in itself, I'm starting to recall why I wasn't exactly a huge Winnie the Pooh fan growing up.
I was always a take it or leave it kind of child when it came to Winnie the Pooh.
That aside, the characters are endearing, and I can see why this is a favorite for many.
Silly old bear! We listened to the audio during a family trip. For me, it was nostalgic, gentle, old-timey (a made up word that seems quite appropriate), and sweet. My children, both (I thought) on the older side to enjoy this in this day and age, absolutely adored it.
At the time it was well documented that Ms Poppins was donating large sums of money to the Save the Pigeons campaign, which of course is not a criminal act.
Millions of pounds were being siphoned into this particular fund which then was traced to bank accounts in Switzerland, and suspicion was raised that it had been used for money laundering, and to bribe members of the City of London Council.
Now further details reveal that Ms Poppins' fortune was amassed from a drug courier business.
I prefer Disney's cuddly version." I made the following response, which I think sums up my feelings about this wonderful classic children's book:One day, Pooh and Piglet were walking through the Hundred Acre Wood when they came upon a Facebook Comment.
"I prefer Disney's cuddly version.""Th-th-that's a v-v-very b-b-big statement to m-m-make," Piglet stammered, slightly nervous that there existed somewhere else in the Hundred Acre Wood a Disney version of himself.Pooh thought for a moment.
"Always seems a little too cheerful for me.""Perhaps we should go ask Christopher Robin about who made the Big Facebook Comment," said Pooh after a Thoughtful Moment."Silly old bear," said Christopher Robin after being presented with the problem.
