https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/40801157-the-miseducation-of-cameron-post
This coming of age novel, which is written more like adult literary fiction than typical YA, beautifully captures the sun-drenched mood of summer as we meet Cameron, a young girl living in a small town in eastern Montana in 1989.
So when beautiful Coley Taylor arrives on the scene, it spells trouble in a big way--and things spiral out of control in Cameron's world when she is sent off to God's Promise, a Christian de-gaying camp.
Re-Read with Sapphic Squad 🦋💖I stand by my original review for this one! It's important and well-written, but also a very difficult read. ---------------4 StarsOverview:  “Maybe I still haven't become me. I don't know how you tell for sure when you finally have.” You ever read a book that just feels too real?Like everything starts fine, but then the narrative starts vocalizing feelings you’ve tried to place before? And before you know it you’re completely immersed and trying to understand why yo
You ever read a book that just feels too real?Like everything starts fine, but then the narrative starts vocalizing feelings you’ve tried to place before?
It gave the book a realistic vibe and was always handled in a way that felt true to the characters, but again—made it hard to reach for.There’s not a lot of resolution for anything.
The ending just sort of happens, and I'm not sure how to feel about it.In Conclusion: As engrossing as this was for me, it’s interesting it wasn’t a 5-Star read.
She loses her right to privacy and endures daily one-on-one sessions (later, group sessions) with the quasi-therapists at the school, but luckily she falls in with Jane and Adam who know how to talk the talk with their teachers without actually giving in to the brainwashing sessions.
We have no actual idea of what happens to them after that point.****************End of Spoiler***********************One of my biggest problem with this book is that I think it's overwritten to the tune of about 150 pages.
But when Aunt Ruth finds out about Cam and her "homosexual tendencies", she sends her away and forces her to find out who she really is - and to confront the demons of her past and her future.The Miseducation of Cameron Post is unlike any book I've read before.
Despite a fictional work, it felt like I was reading a memoir or at least a diary of Danforth using the name Cameron Post.
"When Cameron Post's parents die suddenly in a car crash, her shocking first thought is relief.
But Cameron lives with her conservative and religious (I must say) aunt Ruth who immediately sent her to Christian School & Center for Healing called God's Promise when she found out about her preference in love life.
"The whole fucking purpose of this place is to make us hate ourselves so that we change.
Within the past month, however, I've been lucky enough to read two remarkable LGBT novels for teens, both of which have left me spell-bound and speechless.
And, truly, I have tried, time and time again, to write reviews for these novels.
It's worth it.The Miseducation of Cameron Post by emily danforth is a novel I've been meaning to read for a long time - a very long time.
I've never considered the LGBT community in this manner before and, truly, danforth's debut is not only inspiring and feminist, but eye-opening as well.
DNF - pg 212The Miseducation of Cameron Post starts by painting a beautiful picture of rural Montana and childhood, but is too long a novel in my opinion. My interest at the start quickly waned as the story became dragged out by periods of extremely slow pacing towards the middle. Eventually, I no longer wished to spend any more time with Cameron and her troubles.
Sadly really disappointed with this one.
Don’t get me wrong I didn’t hate it, just think it could have been so much more with a ruddy good edit.
Cameron Post is a young girl who on the day of her parents death is kissing another girl.
From here we follow her growing up hiding her sexuality from her religious aunt who becomes parent by proxy and initially herself.
Until, as we learn from the blurb, eventually the truth is discovered and she is sent off to be ‘cured/saved’ in a religious school...
OVER HALFWAY THROUGH THE BOOK.
It perfectly captured how it feels to be with someone for the first time, to kiss them, and all those adolescent emotions.THIS was one of my favorite parts of the book:I kissed my way back up her body, just more tiny kisses.When I got to the pillow, she said in her sweet, quiet voice, "Wow, Cameron Post."I grinned a big grin, a grin that would have embarrassed me, I know, if someone had shown me a mirror right then.I would cite what page number that is, but I have no freaking clue because my Kindle is unhelpful like that.
NO. My first DNF of the year. I truly did want to like this book. In the beginning I was enjoying it, but for some reason I just started getting bored and felt like the story was dragging.
This is hard to rate. I was going to go for two stars but I did think it was more an "ok". So three stars it is. Kind of a long (compared to other YA novels I've read) so it got a bit slow at times although I did generally enjoy reading about Cameron. Her parents are killed (not a spoiler) in a car accident and her evangelical Christian aunt comes to raise her. Let's just say that Cameron being a lesbian does not go over well. Not my favorite ending. I wanted more. Maybe there will be a sequel?
MY RATING IS MORE LIKE A 3.5!When I first picked this book up I was so super duper pumped.
This book is 470 pages..
NEARLY 500 PAGES FOR A CONTEMPORARY.
it had to be long (and have such a tiny font) for a good reason!
This book took me 7 months to read.
7 MONTHS TO READ.
I did finish it: I wanted to finish it because I could feel the quality hiding just around the corner, but man oh man was it a long haul without enough pay off.
Danforth creates such a strong image of Miles City, and God’s Promise, that any reader will feel immersed.The Miseducation of Cameron Post is a coming of age story in the truest sense of the term.
The sad fact that those she loved most had no idea how to love those parts of Cameron they didn’t agree with or understand broke my heart.I think it is easy for those many people who live in very liberal areas to look unkindly and with harsh judgement at evangelical Christians such as much of Cameron’s town.
3.75* This is a difficult book to know how to rate.
However, on the other hand, I personally didn’t click with the writing style and for me, the book overall was just too long and drawn out in places.
With that being said, due to following its main character from a child to late teens, this book offers a unique insight into sexuality and growing up in a world that’s fighting your identity at every turn.
If your considering reading this book, keep in mind that it’s definitely not a lighthearted read.
I would like to note at this point that I know that there are Christian people who believe the same thing and are big supporters of the LGBTQ+ community, and not all Christians should be judged on the actions of a few but it is impossible to deny that the mistreatment of the LGBTQ+ community has been carried out in the name of religions worldwide for a long time and denial of a history does not benefit anyone.To sum up, I have given this book 3.5 stars because it is a good story and it is a hugely important LGBTQ+ narrative that should be out there.
(Some may argue that, with 460 pages, it's too detailed, but I would disagree)The second half of the novel, when Auntie finds out about Cameron's "un-Christian" sexual urges and sends her away to "God's Promise" (a school whose primary purpose is to de-Gay-ify teens) is when the story really begins to soar, totally getting under my skin.
The old adage of "write what you know" seems to apply here: the detail that Ms. Danforth puts forth seemingly could only come from someone who's gone through similar experiences (like the crashing echo of a "first-time" pants zipper being unzipped, or the specifics of one-on-one counseling at the deprogramming school, or the "ubiquitous turd brown coffee cups at Perkins'", or the inexplicable Montanan cravings of Potato Olés at Taco Johns (hint: it requires lots and lots of pot-smoking).
The writing could have easily overpowered the story, making it feel heavy handed and slow to read, but Danforth does an excellent job painting a complete picture.
It's easy to get completely submerged in her writing.I really appreciated how honestly Danforth handled Cameron's sexuality.
I also really liked how the Christian characters weren't one dimensional villains.
It is possible for good people to do very bad things without realizing it.Overall The Miseducation of Cameron Post is a fantastic addition to the growing LGBT themed books in the YA community.
This is a fantastic book for parents and teachers to start a dialogue about tolerance for different sexualities.
If the author had cut out fully half of the rambling, going-nowhere storylines and spent that energy developing the characters more, it would have been much better.After all the hype and good reviews, I was really very hopeful that this would be a good one, but I found myself struggling through a few chapters a night, hoping it would get better - but it never did.
The poor main character had all the makings of a classic heroine, but never got there.
trigger warnings: conversion therapy, homophobia/homophobic slurs, self-harm (none of this is condoned but it is very prevalent)The Miseducation of Cameron Post is an #ownvoices coming-of-age novel about our main character, Cameron Post, who loses her parents at the beginning of this novel and spends roughly half of it coming to terms with her sexuality as a lesbian teen and the other half in conversion therapy after her sexuality is discovered.This novel is easily in my top favorite novels of all-time and it just blew me away.
First of all, like Cameron, each of these characters is so well-fleshed-out and well-developed that it's impossible not to see them as real people.
The Miseducation of Cameron Post is an incredible coming-of-age which I'm really glad to have read.
Danforth's characterization is consistent and multidimensional.
Cameron is a believable protagonist, unsure of herself but wanting to be.
Her internal voice is very strong.This strength of characterization applies across the board.
The antagonists are as believable and complex as they are terrifying.
I feel as if I know Aunt Ruth, and she terrifies me with her odd blend of well-intentioned homophobia.
I also loved the gorgeous depictions of setting.
At least 200 pages could've been cut here; descriptions of the setting can't keep me interested forever.
This was such a good, realistic story. I loved the backdrop of Montana and the coming of ageness was wonderful. This story spans from cam's childhood to her being 17/18 and those are my favorite coming of age stories. I thought the way the author portrayed the conversion camp was really interesting, but also really scary to see how it changed these characters. Cam's character development was really nice and felt really natural. I'd recommend this to anyone who wants more lgbtq+ness in their reading.
I think there comes a point in this book at which you ask yourself if it's truly worth it to read it
I read, with great patience, a quarter through this before putting the book away. It will remain unfinished. This book is dull. The attempt at a sensitive and ruminative coming of age story just feels plodding and tedious.
This coming-of-age story has been on TBR for a long time now. I'm so glad I finally got to read it. RTC.
Cameron Post es una niña de doce años que vive en Montana.
Tiene una mejor amiga llamada Irene y una familia normal, sus padres y su abuela, que es un poco rara y le gustan los programas de televisión y las novelas de misterio.
Pasé el punto en el que pasan los años y estamos en 1991, pero las cosas no habían cambiado mucho, mi implicación con la novela aún no aparecía y no sentí un impulso significativo para seguir con la historia.Seguramente puede que llegara a ser más interesante al final.
pero este tipo de novela en la que ni la narración, ni los personajes, ni la historia 
”Maybe I still haven’t become me. I don’t know how you can tell for sure when you finally have.” 3.5 stars TW: graphic depictions and references to self-harm, internalized homophobia, slurs (most directed at gay/lesbian people)read full review here*full review include favorite quotes and a spoiler sectionOkay, so I have no idea what to rate this book. It has been over a week sinceI finished it, and Istillhave no idea what to rate it. I mean, I guess it's good when a book does that to you. But a
3.5 stars TW: graphic depictions and references to self-harm, internalized homophobia, slurs (most directed at gay/lesbian people)read full review here*full review include favorite quotes and a spoiler sectionOkay, so I have no idea what to rate this book.
I can feel it coming, y'all, but for now, you can just enjoy that there's a review for this book, however late xD.
Like if all of those 200 pages were cut out, we would still get the same amount of plot, and essentially the same story.
You could start at page 250 and you would get the same story as those who read the whole thing.
a bit too slow and descriptive for me at times, but nonetheless a really honest, emotional, well-characterized, and insightful book that I’m glad to have read ❤
a bit too slow and descriptive for me at times, but nonetheless a really honest, emotional, well-characterized, and insightful book that I’m glad to have read ❤️
[Trigger warnings for self harm, and MAJOR internalized homophobia/homophobia in general (challenged)]So. How did I feel about this book?I really liked it for the most part.
It dealt with some REALLY important topics, and I think it dealt with them well.But there were also a lot of things that didn't quite work for me.THINGS I LIKED:- Really important discussions about homophobia in religion, and internalized homophobia.
And maybe this is just a personal thing (I don't really love open endings...), but it was also REALLY unresolved.OVERALLSo despite the fact that I think I listed more dislikes than likes, I legitimately really loved this book.
Grandma stooped over with a yellow rag, sprinkling out the cleanser, that chemical-mint smell puffing around us, her son dead and her daughter-in-law dead and her only grandchild a now-orphaned shoplifter, a girl who kissed girls, and she didn't even know, and now she was cleaning up my vomit, feeling even worse because of me: That's what made me cry. I was terrified to read this book. For everything I'd been told about its spot-on characterizations and descriptions of the teenage condition, fo
Capital-M Message books rarely meet my expectations, and I've found this to be consistently true when it comes to LGBTQ books in the YA genre, but The Miseducation of Cameron Post is not about being a lesbian.It's about being a girl (who, yes, likes  other girls in that way).There's a difference.
Those same details could distract away from another reader's memories of childhood.Still, it's almost impossible not to identify with some part of a girl floundering with her sexual identity, with how to relate to those who accept her and to those who don't.Danforth shines here, because Miseducation is filled with characters who don't accept Cameron for who she is, and as a reader you can reasonably assume that they probably never will.
For such a huge book (by YA standards), I wish they had been developed more beyond two-dimensions (there was certainly enough pages to do so, but the author chose to focus more on Cameron’s multiple infatuations).To reiterate my feelings on endings like the one found in this book: I’m okay with them not being entirely concrete.
I needed more— (view spoiler)[Mainly: where do Cameron, Adam, and Jane go from the lake?
It is not often I am left with that many questions after finishing a book, and it irks me.
