https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/26050.Angels_Fall
Somewhere between 3 and 4 starsQuite enjoyable. Heavier on romance than on suspense for most of the book.Loved the small-town setting with all its quirks and follies though I wasn't too invested in the characters.The heroine was annoying as hell but she grew some backbone eventually and thankfully didn't ruin too much of the book for me. The hero was likable enough.The story was interesting but the mystery was a bit weak. I guessed the killer right from the beginning. The author gave him too much attention in my opinion.
Sometimes, when I can't decide what to read next, I just pick up one of Nora Roberts' romantic suspense novels and I am never disappointed.
Based in a picturesque little town at the foot of the Grand Tetons, the story revolves around Reece Gilmore, a survivor from Boston.
The chemistry between Reece and Brody was amazing and very believable which is usually not the case in most romance stories.
With entertaining secondary characters, witty dialogues, small town drama and a murder involved, Angels Fall is a captivating read.
Overall a solid romantic suspense novel and a satisfying read.
"- (...). Dar, după ce treci prin ce-am trecut eu, înveți să apreciezi ceea ce ai. Timpul, oamenii, sentimentele.""- Uneori, când au multe pe cap, oamenii mai uită. O oală pe foc, telefonul deschis... E un lucru firesc."
She and I don’t have much in common book-wise, and her collection consists of fiction, lots of mysteries and thrillers and quite a few romances.
This book has a similar set-up: small town, picturesque backdrop, lots of wilderness, nosy busy-body townsfolk, protagonist with a traumatic past who is on her own, and a murder mystery plot in the background.
For now though, all I can say is this book makes me angry, and not in a good way, because the set-up is good and there is so much potential for the rest of the book to be good.
I enjoyed the heroine Reece and the hero Brody.
I got the audiobook version and I thought the narrator did a decent job telling the story.Reece is a trained chef who survived a horrible attack and had many mental issues she dealt with afterward which after such an event is understandable.
In this story, Reece is going across country on a journey to try to keep healing and find herself again.
Her and Brody start trying to solve the case while they get closer and they develop a more serious relationship.
I loved Brody personally because I loved his matter a fact ways but loved that he cared.
I didn't like the secondary characters Lo and Linda Gail relationship development.
Not my favorite of the great Nora.
I liked Reese.
Not loved because I kept thinking she should just leave Angel's Fist.
Her good points were many topped off with a love of cooking.
Not my favorite thing to do, so anyone who wants to cook for me is my friend.
Did I mention she liked to cook?
Why did it take him so long to fall in love?
Reese, you can do better!
He tells her they can move to another town, then in the end he plans to buy the cabin and stay in Angels Fist.
Move on, Reese!
Reece and Brody absolutely do.
Their relationship, their dialogue, everything feels completely natural.I'll get back to Reece and Brody in a moment, because I want to talk about the plot.
When Reece asks him to stop, he stops; and unlike other Roberts heroes, he doesn't think of her sexually from the moment they meet.
She is, as Brody works to convince her, astonishingly strong.
Case in point:"What do you want, Reece?""To push rewind, I guess.
It's pretty much perfect, I think, and Yellow is totally Reece and Brody's song.I wondered before I started this why it had recipes in the back, and now I know: it will make you hungry.
It seems fitting to conclude Nothing But Nora Week with my absolute favourite Nora book of all time.
Reece Gilmore lands up in the little Wyoming town of Angels Fist while she's running away from the ghosts of her past.
Reece's claim regarding the murder are dismissed by the town sheriff when he can find no evidence of such an attack taking place, and her credibility is further compromised by her troubled emotional state.
Angels Fall was, for me, a very different book from the run-of-the-mill romantic suspense/thrillers I've read so far.
All-in-all, this is a book that is definitely worth reading, for all fans of romantic suspense.
I loved everything, the characters, the build up and the general plot.The characters:Reece is the only survivor of a traumatic event, she's roaming the country doing small jobs trying to find her way back to a "normal" life.
He's snarky, borderline rude, commitment shy, but mostly he just speaks his mind and I l o v e d him.I loved their conversations and how Brody always believed Reece and how despite his cantankerous nature he always stood up for her.
I also loved how he reacted when Reece was having her panic attacks.
"You're a rude, insensitive, insulting son of a bitch."He leaned back on his car.
Another fine read from this author. 4.5 stars.   The sole survivor of a brutal crime back East, Reece Gilmore settles in Angel’s Fall, Wyoming—temporarily, at least—and takes a job at a local diner. One day, while hiking in the mountains, she peers through her binoculars and sees a couple arguing ... suddenly, the man is on top of the woman, his hands around her throat…By the time Reece reaches a gruff loner named Brody farther down the trail, the pair is gone. And when authorities comb the area
Another fine read from this author.
suddenly, the man is on top of the woman, his hands around her throat…By the time Reece reaches a gruff loner named Brody farther down the trail, the pair is gone.
When a series of menacing events makes it clear that someone wants her out of the way, Reece must put her trust in Brody—and herself—to find out if there is a killer in Angel’s Fall, before it’s too late.
This guy was cast as Brody, which I can totally appreciate.
Might get to visit there one fine day!
3.5 stars. Enjoyable.I read the physical book several years ago and thought it was good - 4  stars. But I changed my mind when I recently listened to the audiobook. The middle dragged too much. Maybe because I knew the ending and who the bad guy was, but I was tired of Reese being oblivious to all the things being done to her by the bad guy - trying to make her lose her mind. Although she did some interesting things, too much time was spent with her being a helpless victim.The story is about a t
Enjoyable.I read the physical book several years ago and thought it was good - 4 ½ stars.
Maybe because I knew the ending and who the bad guy was, but I was tired of Reese being oblivious to all the things being done to her by the bad guy - trying to make her lose her mind.
Although she did some interesting things, too much time was spent with her being a helpless victim.The story is about a talented woman chef who was the only survivor of a gunshot massacre.
It’s a good murder mystery.
The story also has an interesting romance developing between the chef and a writer who helps her.
I enjoyed reading about these two characters.
Five full stars! ★★★★★ I love books about chefs! Whether they are romances or mysteries; I just love the culinary theme (guess this explains my fascination with the Food Network!). Put the three together, and Wow! I’ve never been a huge Nora Roberts fan (though I do like her writing as J.D. Robb); nevertheless, I’ve picked up one or two of her books over the years and enjoyed them.However, I’ve always liked Heather Locklear (I swear my sister-in-law could be her twin). Ms. Locklear starred in t
Five full stars!
★★★★★ I love books about chefs!
Whether they are romances or mysteries; I just love the culinary theme (guess this explains my fascination with the Food Network!).
I’ve never been a huge Nora Roberts fan (though I do like her writing as J.D. Robb); nevertheless, I’ve picked up one or two of her books over the years and enjoyed them.However, I’ve always liked Heather Locklear (I swear my sister-in-law could be her twin).
Ms. Locklear starred in the wonderful 2007 “made-for-TV-movie” adaptation of Ms. Roberts’ Angels Fall and I really relished it.
It was even better than the movie (isn’t the book 
better?)!
Not bad, but after listening to The Witness and being blown away by the narrator, plot and characters, this one didn't quite measure up.
It took me a while to get used to the "voice" that was narrating this story, and I wonder if I had "read" the book, would I have enjoyed it more...I'm not sure.
This contradicted her character description as a business savvy, BEAUTIFUL woman!!
I like Nora Roberts style, love the audiobook format and look forward to reading and listening to more of her books.
I'm a bit undecided about a 3 vs.
I have a certain devotion to Nora Roberts that some might find irrational, but generally I find her characters interesting & distinguishable, and their conflict/relationships satisfying.
My 3.5 rating rationale would go something like this: *Never saw the 'whodunit' coming-- that's good!--4 stars!*Plot holes that would enable the culprit to do what was done-- uh, 3 stars.In the end, I'm giving it 4 because I like NR.
If you are picky about mystery plotting, you may find it frustrating.
If you're in it for the characters, it's really good.
Bueno, más bien es un tres y medio. No he leído muchos libros de esta autora, pero los pocos que han pasado por mis manos me han parecido mejores. La historia está bien, el tema muy bien tratado, pero he encontrado que faltaba algo más de suspense. De los personajes no puedo decir nada, salvo que me han parecido muy bien definidos.
This book was a light, but entertaining mystery/romance and about what you'd expect from Nora Roberts--i.e. well-written, with interesting characters, and a firm sense of place and people.I really like Reece as someone recovering from a truly awful, traumatic experience.
It ended up working, I guess, and I buy their eventual HEA, but with the occasional needlessly exasperating moment.The mystery of the novel was a bit awkward, too.
awkward...In the end, this was a good romance with a relationship that worked, if rocky in places.
Turned out that, despite all the various Nora Roberts recommendations folks kindly gave me, the first non-J.D. Robb of hers that I read was Angels Fall, her latest paperback.
And I'll say this for ol' Nora: she actually surprised me for who turned out to be the murderer.
The sex scenes were also familiar in style from the J.D. Robbs, and I do like Nora's style--she peppers her novels with several very small sex scenes and yet manages to make the flavor of each distinctive.Thinking about it, I can't come up with a single beef I have with this book.
I really don't understand why anyone would prefer to live there but Reece and Brody did clearly.
I thought he was getting better at being the guy for Reece but unfortunately the whole debacle of not making her feel welcome in his cabin later on in their relationship made me feel annoyed and made him seem not very hero material (which he wasn't at the start but was working towards it atleast).The book dragged on in some places other than that I didn't really see the need for a secondary romance but it was also there.
From the perspective of a murder mystery, the plot was fairly gripping, but the killer was a bit obvious, and remained my most constant suspect throughout the book, even though I considered others, since it seemed too obvious.
Well, I liked the couple, Reece and Brody, and how they rolled.
No rainbows, hearts, or starry-eyed sparkles -- this romance is fairly unemotional -- but Brody the grouch grew on me.
Good secondary characters, especially Joanie, the restaurant owner.Clever parallel between the heroine of the murder mystery Brody was writing and the actual heroine, Reece.Good descriptions of the Tetons.
Ich habe mich wider besseren Wissens durch die Inhaltsbeschreibung verführen lassen und bin recht schnell enttäuscht wurden.
Die Grundstory (ortsfremde Frau beobachtet Mord und niemand glaubt ihr, sie selbst zweifelt an ihrem Verstand und es geschehen merkwürdige Dinge) war ja an sich nicht schlecht, nur waren 2/3 der Geschichte mit hölzerne Dialoge, idiotisches Sexgedöns und langweiligen Nichtigkeiten angefüllt.
das unterirdische Gelabber darüber waren die schlechtesten, die mir in der Welt der Literatur je untergekommen sind.Ich geb es einfach auf, Nora Roberts (bzw.
ihre Pseudonyme) und das "Romantic suspense"-Genre (welches interessanterweise nichts mit Romantik zu tun hat) haben für mich ein literarischen und unterhalterisches Niveau unter Zimmertemperatur.
Es un clásico de esta autora, a la que hasta ahora no le encontré novela mala.El suspenso está garantizado y en cada página la cabeza del lector trabaja tratando de unir las piezas del rompecabezas.Sospeché de tres personajes y adoré jugar, una vez más, a la detective...El lado romántico de la historia me encantó.
La pareja es hermosa y tienen una química deliciosa.Nada cursi, nada bobo ni romanticón.
Es una historia de atracción pura, donde terminan construyendo el amor.Me encantó esta historia y se las recomiendo como siempre que hablo de esta autora: con los ojos cerrados.PODÉS LEER LA RESEÑA COMPLETA ACÁ
Another good read by Nora, if a shade too long.
I don't tend to read her stand-alone books, and this was one of the few I have tried.
It was a good story, good plot and likeable characters.
The support characters were also fun and realistic, giving the book a well rounded feel.
I liked the backstory, and the tension was kept up throughout, except towards the end when I just wanted to know who the baddie was!
I think I will try some more of the zillion stand-alone books Nora has-They are always a sure bet, and Nora is the very best at what she does, hands down.
I liked it. It wasn't bad, it wasn't her best, I just... liked it. Annika was a lot of fun. But I lost interest in the plot along the way.
¡Una de mis lecturas favoritas del mes!Sinceramente es uno de mis favoritos de esta autora ya que tiene de todo: romance, misterio, suspenso, humor y personajes complejos que maduran con el transcurso de la historia.Todo comienza con Reece, llegando a un pueblo llamado Angel's Fist, en el cual comienza a rehacer su vida poco a poco después de un suceso trágico que cambió radicalmente su forma de ser.
La única persona que le cree es Brody, con el que desde un principio tiene un rechazo natural y el único en el que se podrá apoyar para resolver el caso....Siendo esta una relectura (lo sé, he hecho esto con varios libros ya este año), siento que me sorprendió gratamente como la primera vez que lo leí.
Unfortunately, I don’t think she was given much depth.
I didn’t really like the guy, and even though he redeemed himself a bit by the end, I’m still not a fan; I thought the dialogues were feeble in comparison to other books.
I enjoyed the story, worth a few good hours of entertainment.
Oh, and just to clear the air," she added as she rounded the counter for an apron, "your son's very charming, but I slept alone last night." Notice the expressions in bold, it jumped right at me when I first read it, and I actually laughed, because the translator took it literally, and she didn’t even translate the whole sentence.
I think “só para esclarecer” instead of “limpar o ambiente” would be more accurate.
Giving this a 4 star cause I am rereading it.
I don't reread a lot of books.
Othertimes, I can't wait for enough time to pass for me to be able to open it back up.
Angels Fall is a book I can't wait for enough time to pass.
Seriously good book.
I don't think it is one thing in the book- not the characters, not the setting, not the storyline.
It's a combo of all those things that turns a tale into a fab story.
Not broken like the female lead in this book.
When her car breaks down in a picturesque Wyoming town, Reece takes a job cooking at the local diner to earn enough to repair it and move on.
But as she gets to know the townspeople, mystery writer Brody in particular, she considers putting the past behind her and settling down.But then, while out hiking, she witnesses a murder.
Reece is traumatized again, and not just by the killing, but also because, when the police go to check out the crime scene, there's no evidence of a murder taking place.
The townspeople doubt her story due to her past, which leads everyone, including Reece, to question her sanity.
"I'll read instead!" I was finishing books at a respectable pace for a graduate student!
Instead I got the world's cutest, smartest puppy and I have been working on a fluff book, a Nora Roberts re-read for THREE WEEKS.
But I finally finished Angels Fall (which, like I said, is a re-read for me).
The only thing I can't stand about this book is the protagonist suffers from what I guess is PTSD--she constantly has to check her locks, put barriers in front of her doors--but does she get a dog?
Reece grows over the course of the book.
She starts out fragile and very damaged and grows stronger in what she is mentally able to accomplish and she doesn't give up on trying to find the murder that only she saw.
He does believe her though and learns to love her.There are several very interesting secondary characters and enough red herrings to keep me guessing as to the murderer for much longer than normal in this sort of book.The mystery and romance were blended and balanced perfectly in this one.
No es un libro empalagoso, sí tiene una historia de amor o dos, pero sus protagonistas son tan particulares que la hacen única como ellos, me encantaron Brody y Reece.
Tambíen Joanie, Cas, Lynda y todos los demás habitantes de este chismoso pueblo.Pero lo que mas me gustó y me mantuvo entretenida y pensando en mil hipótesis es que no descubri quien es el malo de esta historia hasta después de haber leído un 80% del libro, me sorprendió, hasta que empecé a atar los cabos y me dí cuenta estaba tan ciega como Reece, Brody y todo Angel´s Fist y eso en un libro que juega con el suspenso esta genial.
