https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/605668.Someone_at_a_Distance
Once again, I've fallen in love with one or Dorothy Whipple's books, and I'm excited to read even more by her..."Someone at a Distance" is about Louise who is one of the most atrocious characters I've ever read about.
She's selfish, manipulating and heartless and right from the beginning you can't help but feel great distaste for her.
As an opponent to Louise we have Ellen who is the wife of Avery and has two lovely children.
How the story of Louise and Ellen is mingled, I won't give away, but this novel turns out to become a novel of love, despair and everything in between.
It is the story of the North family – wife Ellen, publisher husband, Avery, their son Hugh, who is doing National Service and horse obsessed daughter, Anne, who is still at school.
Although she is beautiful, she is rejected by the richest young man of her provincial town, who, having enjoyed an affair with her, marries a woman more of his social class and Louise is keen to get away.
So, she goes to stay with Mrs North in England and ingratiates herself with the old woman, while upsetting everyone else.Ellen, who loves her garden, her family and her quiet, comfortable life, fails to see the danger that Louise represents.
Fantastic!!! Just fantastic. This is EXACTLY the kind of book I love to read.  Intelligent writing that is poignant yet witty.  The perfect combination. Someone at a Distance is one of those novels that overtime was forgotten and lay languishing in some dusty corner of the literary world until those wise people at Persephone Books reissued it as one of the books in their Classics series. And how delighted I am that they did! I had never heard of the author Dorothy Whipple until I stumbled across
Someone at a Distance is one of those novels that overtime was forgotten and lay languishing in some dusty corner of the literary world until those wise people at Persephone Books reissued it as one of the books in their Classics series.
And this book is laden with human emotion and complex characters.
I found myself getting so completely and utterly involved and fully invested in these characters that there were points when reading that I punched my book in an effort to fist-bump what was happening in the storyline!
She had learnt to wait for the changes and the help that life brings.
A really enjoyable read. Loved the characters!
One word review - Read this book.
Someone at a Distance is the story of an ordinary family torn apart by the entry of a French woman named Louise.
Avery is a handsome publisher with a good pay and Ellen enjoys gardening and running the household.
She advertises for a companion and the ad is answered by a French woman named Louise.Then follow an interesting set of events, that question the marriage, trust and family bonds.
Particularly interesting is the contrasting character sketch of Ellen and Louise.
A must read for anyone who loves a good book.For full review check out http://www.thebooksatchel.com/someone...
Although a rather hefty book, 'Someone at a Distance' really packs a punch and becomes addictive reading once you get past the first dozen pages or so. The characters are drawn so clearly and concisely that it pains you to read of their downfall. The theme of adultery is covered with intensity and the relationships between father and daughter before and after are heartbreaking. Dorothy Whipple really 'feels' her characters and I was enchanted, devastated and then momentarily happy as I experienced the highs and lows of a family torn apart by an affair.
It was just what I was looking for.It was a copy of Dorothy Whipple’s Someone at a Distance, originally published in 1953, reprinted by Persephone Books in London.I am relatively late in discovering Persephone, as is evidenced by a couple of Bookslut posts here and here.
Whipple draws you into post-War rural England with an artist’s hand, taking you into the lives of the North family with deft, compassionate insight.
Avery works in London at a publishing house, and his wife, Ellen, a woman happily consumed with the daily tasks of keeping house.
Ellen and Avery are happily married with 2 children Hugh and Anne.
His Mother lives not far away and is lonely and resentful that the family don't spend more time with her so she advertises for a companion.
Louise, living in France, has recently been jilted by her lover, who has married a woman with better social standing, so she wants to get away from the small village and replies to the advert.
Ellen and Louise are opposites, Ellen middle-aged sensible mother who loves looking after her family and the garden is comfortable.
This 1953 novel features a county of resourceful and morally upstanding British women versus one husband-thieving French tart who is so diabolical that her mere presence can make a baby vomit. How I love Persephone Books.
From the Sunday to Thursday in which I read all 413 pages, I didn't want to look away.And the physical book is lovely.
A Persephone Classic that appeals in every way, reminiscent of my beloved NYRB editions.
Originally published in 1953, it is one of the first Persephone Classics to be reprinted.
Even though the time period is not the same at all, I had the feeling I was in the land of Emma/Jane Austen, but with more seriousness (aka less humour).I can't wait to read another Dorothy Whipple book!Coming soon: My favourite quotes.****
I need to read everything by Dorothy Whipple now! This book started a bit slow but once it got going I couldn't put it down. The premise is fairly basic (a happy family is torn apart by infidelity) but something about the way it unfolds was so compelling I couldn't stop reading. At times I wanted to scream at these characters to see sense, I wanted to make sure that Mademoiselle got her comeuppance, but all that frustration is the sign of a good read, right? This book was the perfect way to spend my long Labor Day weekend.
This tale of marriage and adultery has a rather pedestrian plot, but outstanding characterization; Whipple's lovely prose and the interest she creates in how the characters are going to react to each other and to events make the book utterly absorbing.
Someone at a Distance, written and also set in the post-World War II years, is the story of a seemingly happy family – Ellen, her husband, Avery, and their 2 kids.
She has delusions of grandeur in regards to herself and her future – in the end, her illusions are the only things that she has to hold to on as she faces the reality.In some ways, both Ellen and Louise are in prisons.
Both women are essentially prisoners of misogynistic norms and expectations.The book also makes you question – in a marriage or a family in general, whose role is to maintain the relationships?
The 2nd old-as-time story!
If you have this edition, DON'T read the foreword.
It just gives way too much away, more than just reading the usual blurbs.
Perhaps the moral is to do right by the people you trust, not just everyone.
(view spoiler)[For example, if Ellen had moved in with John, Avery's partner then all chance to reconcile with Avery would be gone.
Conversely Avery felt he had to marry Louise and "do right by her" even though it got him even deeper in gloom.
Even though it's over 400 pages it really reads fast.
However Dorothy Whipple writes so well, and with such feeling, that the reader watches the slow crumble of this likeable family with real regret.
By the time the novel reaches this point, the reader feels they know this family intimately - people who are never happier than when they with one another.
Warm and fuzzy scenes of family life are so idealised that they contrast sharply with what follows.
The scenes in France are a beautifully observed depiction of small town French life, with all its petty snobberies.
This was an absolute pleasure to read, as with all previous Dorothy Whipple novels I have read.
Absolutely superb
'There are times in our lives when the slightest move is dangerous' writes Dorothy Whipple in her last novel she wrote in 1953.Avery North has it all, a successful job, a lovely home , a loving caring wife and two children .When Avery's elderly mother advertises for a companion, along comes French girl Louise Lanier who turns everyone's lives upside down.My first Dorothy Whipple book and i absolutely loved it. It's so well written and the characters will stay with me for a very long time.Can't wait to read more by this author
She writes of how much she admires Whipple’s work, and says this about the novel: ‘[it] is, on the face of it, a fairly ordinary tale of a deceived wife and a foolish husband in rural suburbia not far from London and, perhaps because the author was nearing sixty when she wrote it, there is a slight pre-war flavour about the domestic expectations of the characters’.
The opening chapter sets the tone of the whole wonderfully: ‘Widowed, in the house her husband had built with day and night nurseries and a music-room, as if the children would stay there for ever, instead of marrying and going off at the earliest possible moment, old Mrs. North yielded one day to a long-felt desire to provide herself with company.
But the informal book group that I belong to reached a consensus recently that we should read 'Someone at a Distance' by Dorothy Whipple.
I suspect that Dorothy Whipple, who wrote several other novels (also published by Persephone), will turn out to be a joyously unexpected discovery for many readers.
The first half of the story recounts Louise's relationship with her parents, her impact on Avery's mother and the build-up to the affair itself.
(And, in case you're wondering, my two book group friends rate this novel as highly as I do.) 10/10.
What touched me most was the deft and gentle revelation of how deeply fragile even the most secure human relationships are, built as they are on that invisible cornerstone we call trust.Dorothy Whipple was extremely successful for a period in her own writing life - the 1930s and 1940s - but fell out of fashion (a terrifying concept for all authors!) because, as her agent put it, 'Editors have gone mad about action and passion instead.' In my view 'Someone At A Distance' abounds with both action and passion.
The skill in achieving this is considerable and yet the reader is so swept along by the story that it feels effortless.
A very lovely read.
This is such a beautiful, simple (deceptively so), quiet book, that packs such an emotional punch. Definitely want to read more Whipple in the future.
There are obvious similarities between Dorothy Whipple's novel and  The Tortoise and the Hare by Elizabeth Jenkins (which I read only a few months before), in subject (a marriage falling apart), setting (rural England), time period (Britain after the war) etc. I was so engrossed in "The Tortoise" and I enjoyed it so much, I almost feel bad I didn't like Someone at a Distance a little more. However, Whipple writes beautifully and she's a keen observer, I will probably read anything by her, given the chance.3.5*
Unfortunately, neither Ellen North, the novel's heroine, nor her foolish husband Avery, are a match for the scheming Louise, a young French woman who comes to England as a companion to Avery's mother after a romantic disappointment.
After Louise is left a substantial legacy following the mother's death she comes to stay with the Norths, and resolves to stay until she has her hands on the money.
Only Ellen's naivety prevents her being thoroughly admirable, and Louise is a superb villain, and there are several interesting secondary characters.
A highly readable study of the insertion of a sociopathic woman into a traditional marriage and the havoc that is wreaked as a result.
Old Mrs. North, the widow of a highly successful industrialist, brings 27-year-old "French girl" Louise Lanier, into her home for companionship and light domestic duties.
After Louise is left a significant amount of money by Mrs. North, she returns to England to collect it, finagling an extended stay at the home of the deceased woman's handsome and happily married middle-aged son, Avery, a partner in a successful London publishing firm.
What was truly insightful about this books was the "expectation of women".
But Whipple's writing is so beautiful that you know in the end the protagonist will overcome these horrific events.
The protagonist is at times too self-less - as liberated women of the 21st century you want to smack her on the head.
The protagonist becomes stubborn when it comes to financial help and at first you become infuriated with her, but then you begin to understand and admire her.
I think this book should be read by anyone who has any interest in women's issues.
This was really a 3.5 star book for me, but I liked it overall.
Well-written, carefully observed, and generally an engrossing story.
I did have serious misgivings about the ending, though, which is possibly why I didn't rate it higher.
I felt that after the journey the characters take in the book, I didn't want it to go there.
It did masterfully paint a picture of what happens to Ellen, the main character, as the world as she knows it comes crashing down around her.
The "other woman" is deliciously evil, but written with enough depth that she doesn't come off as cartoonish.
Another great book by Dorothy Whipple. Brilliant writing and great characters. I would have given it 5 stars were it not for an ending that I found a bit contrived. I wish there were more of Dorothy Whipple ebooks around. Please Persephone ...
A sad and even painful tale about a happy marriage that is broken up by experience taking advantage of innocence. Most of the characters are so nice, your heart breaks for them. Even the villain of the piece has sadness in her background. Not an easy read, but very involving and memorable.
I found this book rather disappointing. There was not one page that I enjoyed reading, and the plot was so lightweight and unbelievable, despite indications that this was supposed to be a good read from 1953 when it was first published.
