https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/365882.Witch_Wood
It occurs to me, having read this last year and recommended it to another couple of people only this week, that I never got around to telling you why I loved Witch Wood quite so much.
In the Scottish Borders, a new minister finds himself caught between loyalty to his own Kirk and the de facto government of the King, trying to do the best he can for the people of his parish.At the same time, he discovers that some of his church elders are performing devil worship in the woods.
http://www.bbc.co.uk/programmes/b05pmjb6Description: Set against the religious struggles and civil wars of seventeenth century Scotland, John Buchan's Witch Wood is a gripping atmospheric tale in the spirit of Stevenson and Neil Munro.As a moderate presbyterian minister, young David Sempill disputes with the extremists of his faith, as all around, the defeated remnants of Montrose's men are being harried and slaughtered.There are still older conflicts to be faced however, symbolised by the presence of the Melanudrigall Wood, a last remnant of the ancient Caledonian forest.
The backdrop to the events in the book is the religious and civil strife in Scotland between 1644 and 1646 when Scottish Royalists under Montrose fought the Covenanters who were allied with the English Parliament.The central story of David Sempill and his fight against the superstitious practices that he finds still hold sway among some of the inhabitants of Woodilee is the most engaging and accessible element of the book.
Synopsis: Witch Wood is a story of seventeenth-century witchcraft in the Wood of Caledon in the Scottish Borders.
Meanwhile, civil unrest of the Scottish Wars of the Covenant divides the minister's loyalties.
Buchan also weaves in a romantic love story.
The "wars" referred to in the synopsis are those that divided the church and, eventually, led to the almost complete eradication of superstitions and pagan practices that continued under the more lax provisions of the Catholic (papist) and other churches.Aside from all this, the story is engaging and Mr Buchan has a very distinctive and somewhat old-fashioned writing style.
Gave up after 30% - so much time spent trying to understand the Scots spoken that I was beginning to hate the book.
1.5⭐ Urgh made it to the end but seriously could not understand anyone speaking in Scottish. The witches didn't actually feature much at all and it was more of an actual devil worship big coven #falseadvertising
1.5⭐️ Urgh made it to the end but seriously could not understand anyone speaking in Scottish. The witches didn't actually feature much at all and it was more of an actual devil worship big coven #falseadvertising
It should also interest fans of James Hoggs' Memoirs and Confessions of a Jutified Sinner.In the Epilogue Buchan cites a Reverend John Dennistoun, whose work Satan's Artifices against the Elect he says was written in 1719 but only published in 1821 by Sir Walter Scott.
Dennistoun seems to be a fictional author invented by Buchan and cited in other works of his.
(Probably inspired by Robert Kirk, whose 17th-century book about fairies The Secret Commonwealth was published by Scott in 1815.
While the latter is an excellent novel, Witch Wood is a bit "simple" without actually becoming the children's story that its title might suggest.
However, the simplicity of the novel's thesis (i.e. that putting political power into the hands of an idiot fundamentalist theocracy is a bad idea) meant that you generally didn't need to know what they were babbling on about.
In a world where Islamic State is committing lunatic barbarism on the basis that the only book they have ever read says they can, it is interesting to see that a bunch of daft Scotsmen came to the same conclusion after picking the words they liked best (primarily "smite") out of the Old Testament.
Кроме того, здесь почти все изъясняются на неких диалектах шотландского, поэтому, видимо, читать лучше в оригинале, но уж как вышло.
А читай я его в детстве, ему б вообще цены не было.Перевод Екатерины Ярко вполне годный, хотя с этими самыми диалектами она, мне кажется, перемудрила — у нее там дикая смесь архаики и просторечья, и все персонажи (опричь попов, которые говорят, как в советских переводах Уолтера Скотта — под которого вполне удачно стилизован и весь текст от автора) выражаются довольно однообразно, что на самом деле, я думаю, не так.
понятно, что мешало название толком перевести.
Pagan rightsBuchan has taken the hint of a childhood tale and turned it into a gripping adventure story, the like of which he does so well.
But this is largely an adventure of the spirit as a 17th century Presbyterian minister wrestles with pagan stirrings in his own session: the disapproval of the Kirk authorities: the rights and wrongs of warring factions and not least his own conscience.
The action is page turning, though the descriptions of settings is from an earlier, Victorian age when words were still supposed to conjure up visual images and don't demand closer reading.
The psychology is all the minister's but other characters are colorfully drawn.
The story is of a small village in Scotland during the rule of the "Kirk".
Complete with witch hunts, both faithful and farcical, Pharisees and prophets, soldiers and cowards, the story follows a young minister trying to lead his little flock out of many kinds of idolatry and into the light.
Buchan's character development is perceptive and careful, which always makes a story more worthwhile.
When I can find myself empathetic even to the antagonists in the story without compromising my loyalty to the protagonist, I believe I have found an author who understands mankind.
When I started reading this book, I wasn't so sure. There was a lot of dry dialogue and a bit of a language barrier.As I continued it got better and better until I was reading quite a bit every day. It's both encouraging and thought provoking. It is also theologically sound. The main character is likable (A pastor that isn't a wuss? How cool is that?) and not too perfect, leaving room for moral dilemmas.Definitely read it.
A solid, captivating book. Never has a book with so little supernatural activity been able to stun me so much.
I'm a young minister in a Reformed Church. This book is terrifying. It's real. I think I should change my name to David Sempill. Don't read it. It's too good.
Covenanters, witches covens, woodland orgies , battles and plague ( with a wee romance thrown in). It’s all happening in the tiny borders village of Woodilee in the mid 17th century. David Semple is the naive young minister with a sneaking sympathy for the royalist Montrose, and a fancy for the local posh bird. John Buchan manages to turn all of this into an entertaining but poignant tale of the conflicts and miseries heaped on the ordinary people of this time.
Best book I've read in a long time.
4.5
Apart from the interesting diversions explaining why burial sites aren't consecrated, and why Christians can't just remain secure in their saving, the folowing are the three best parts of the book for me:(mar thuirt Ruiridh mu dheiridh mar sin, 's dochas gum biodh litir do luchd ionnsachadh nas fhearr orm.) “ My mouth shaped the word "Melanudrigill," and I knew that I saw Woodilee as no eye had seen it for three centuries, when, as its name tells, it still lay in the shadow of a remnant of the Wood of Caledon, that most ancient forest where once Merlin harped and Arthur mustered his men.
I had read this novel many, many years ago and the pervasive atmosphere of the setting has stuck with me through hundreds of other books I've read since then.
Set in Scotland, but steeped in the similar traditions and brooding landscape of Washington Irving's  The Legend of Sleepy Hollow, Witch Wood tells the story of a young minister, David Sempill, who witnesses diabolical goings-on in the the woods near his new parish.
Despite that, however, this story is an important one to understand the influences that politics can have on distorting the truth and corrupting the notion of goodness and I would highly recommend it.
David tries to fight the witchcraft, the narrowmindedness of his parishioners, and live a godly life, even if it means helping those in need who are enemies of the Kirk.
The various set pieces of the church hearing, the witches' celebration, and village life are well portrayed.
The story seems like a version of Hawthorne's "Young Goodman Brown" set in the Scotland of several centuries ago.
I would have given it 4 stars but there is a lot of Scottish dialect and the version I had, although it included a glossary, was not helpful enough to understand everything.
A powerful story (a favorite of CS Lewis) about a young and idealistic minister, David Sempill, set in 17th century Scotland with the Monmouth rebellion as the backdrop.
As David grows into ministering to his congregation he finds a coven of witches and warlocks being led by the most powerful and influential of his flock.
As David sets out to spiritual battle he finds an unlikely ally in a young noblewoman, Katrina Yester, who is both a source of goodness and a symbol of grace over against a church more interested in political power.This is truly a strong and effective story in which power, doctrinalism, formalism, and moralism become gods while mercy and justice become mere abstractions.
First published in 1927, Witch Wood is a mid-17th century tale about a newly ordained minister taking up his duties in the Scottish Borders parish of Woodilee where he discovers evidence of witchcraft, whilst the unrest that accompanies and follows warfare adds further local complications.
Let's be clear, this is witchcraft in 17th century terms, it is not a fantasy novel and you won't find extras from LOTR dashing around the place.
Much of the speech is expressed in an attempt at Scottish Border dialect, and this makes interpretation difficult at times.
I loved this book, but I have been lucky and have read Sir Walter Scott's early novels on Scotland.
Buchan takes no prisoners & thus has minimal explanation on language used and the historical period.
Wikipedia became my friend when I decided to study up on the religious wars of England & Scotland.
Such a nasty & intolerant period.The story is based on fact - from a pamphlet found by Buchan - but he changed the hero significantly & added local colour.
If you are a fan of late 19th century literature, then go for it & you will enjoy the novel & the themes expounded.
This book is fabulous, really great reading. It's about 17th century Scotland: very careful, beautiful, and haunting descriptions of place, thick renditions of the Scottish accent. The place and relative merits of men, the church, and the state; the conflation of the state and religion; the difficulty of distinguishing between truth and appearance; true love; characters vibrantly real with not a hint of caricature or chiaroscuro; all these and more find their place effortlessly and artfully. It seems this was John Buchan's favorite novel.
This was apparently first published in 1927.
The story is set in the Scottish Borders during the civil war and the main character is the new young minister in a small village.
The minister wrestles with his own christian faith as opposed to the severe presbyterianism of the Kirk and also has to deal with a pagan coven, a wounded soldier from Montrose's defeated army as well as falling in love.
It's a good read though a lot of the dialogue features many Scots words which even having lived in Scotland for over thirty six years I was not sure I fully understood.
A goodreads friend made me notice that I'd rated but not reviewed this book, my favorite of all Buchan's. Somewhere I read it was his, too. If you like Ivanhoe, Kidnapped and Lorna Doone, you will thoroughly enjoy this historical romance. The setting is Scotland in the late 1640s. It introduced me, by his cameo appearance, to one of my personal heroes, James Graham, the Marquis of Montrose (1612-1650). Buchan also wrote a biography of Montrose, as did C.V. Wedgewood.
Loved it! Once I got past the Scottish speech patterns, I could just get involved in the story and deep issues; love, church over King, application of the Word in life, Reformed theology gone very wrong. I love most of Buchan's books and this one is different than the others. It is not just an adventure. I actually had to look up words! (in a dictionary). That is a good thing. Not for the faint of heart, but I would recommend this one.
Although I took a little while to get into this book, I was truly gripped by the time I'd got to the second half. I was particularly pleased to find the central character of the book to be of such an orthodox christian belief, and this was a particularly interesting tale of the struggle of a minister seeking to be true to the Word, albeit imperfectly, against a church more interested in the look of being true to the Word. Very worthwhile reading.
This book is about the struggles of a Presbyterian minister in eighteenth century Scotland. I found the style and subject matter absolutely fascinating, but there is a quite a bit of dialogue written in Scots' dialect, so parts of it were very slow to read. I would recommend this book to anyone who enjoys historical fiction and/or Scotland. Buchan's writing reminded me a little bit of a more intense and less fanciful George MacDonald.
This book is truly awesome. True, there are passages that took some interpreting (the broad Scots dialogue for example) znd the book leaves you angry at the injustice that is ultimately done. At the start, you do assume that things will work out alright, but the bleakness of the ending shocked even me. I loved the fact that it was not predictable, and adored many of the characters, and admired the ending. I will certainly be reading more Buchan.
