https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/34511.Monstrous_Regiment
Pratchett addresses two questions here: (1)  “Do you think it's possible for an entire nation to be insane?”  and (2) Does - and, more importantly, should - a well-placed pair of socks  (for 'certain' sort of padding) make a difference? “The presence of those seeking the truth is infinitely to be preferred to the presence of those who think they've found it.”   As far as Discworld series is concerned, this book can be easily read as a standalone novel. It brings us to the little backwards countr
"Borogravia was a peace-loving country in the midst of treacherous, devious, warlike enemies.
But this does not stop the little country, governed by a "probably dead" Duchess, the country that follows the ever-expanding ring-bound (makes it easier to add pages) gospel of the god Nuggan, who seems to spend his time coming up with new Abominations - recently, we've had garlic, chocolate, dwarfs, cats, oysters and the color blue join the ranks.
I love that this book, like the rest of Pratchett's creations, makes me think.
From sentence number one I was riveted and if you are wondering whether you should read this book, the short answer is yes, turn your cursor right now to a new tab and order it, or even better jog out to your local (probably half an hour away) bookstore (they’re an endangered species) and support them by buying it there.It’s that good.
It’s also a book that will probably make you think a few new thoughts, especially if female equality isn’t an obsession of yours, and therefore obviously worth reading.Monstrous Regiment will also make you think about war.
Five stars really aren't enough. I think this might be my favorite Terry Pratchett book. I've read it at least 3-4 times, and re-reading it today, I'm delighted to discover that it's every bit as good as before. As an added bonus, this book would be easier for new readers of Pratchett to pick up. There are a few characters from previous books, but they only have very brief cameo appearances. Other than that the book is pretty much self contained.... pat
Only thing is, this Discworld novel is not exactly about the Night Watch, even if Sam Vimes, Angua and a couple of others do participate in the conflict.
Each of these recruits harbors a secret identity, and I guess it is not much of a spoiler to mention that for some of them that identity has to do with gender roles.A long history of open conflict with all its neighbors, in particular a recent attack on Ankh-Morpork clack towers has brought Vimes and the imperial forces to fight on the side of Zlobenia and has left Borogravia deprived of fresh blood to send to the slaughter.
Men without women, women doing just fine without men.Terry Pratchett’s 31st Discworld novel, first published in 2003, is somewhat of a departure from the other series.
Blind faith and mistaken loyalties are two of the elements that Sir Terry has fun with in this very well done novel.Told in a more lineal manner than many of his eclectic stories, this one has more a more somber tone than most, this being about war, but it also had some of the most laugh out loud scenes of any of his books.
That'd been almost a year ago, when any recruiting party that came past went away with the best part of a battalion, and there had been people waving them off with flags and music.
But I'm glad to be able to tell you that the, the war is progressing so, so well that you are to go directly to the front."Soon, reality sets in and the realization of their dire predicament descends like a fog.They were losing the war.
HOWEVER - Pratchett does a fantastic job of summing up the folly of war."We are a proud country.""What are you proud of?"It came swiftly, like a blow, and Polly realized how wars happened.
Akrepski odred mi se čini kao jedan od boljih Pračeta (dobro, za mene uvek odskaču oni Pračeti u kojima ima veštica ili Straže). A čini mi se da je i prevod među našim boljim prevodima Pračeta. Kupio me je već nabrajanjem pesama tipa "Ja sam ja, Džeremaja" i "Rado ide Džoni u vojnike" jer... kako to mislite, krosover Hermanovog stripa i Tozovca može da ne bude smešan?
January 10, 2017March 22, 2015January 1, 2004I'm fond of stories about girls dressing as boys in order to do something they would otherwise be prohibited from. Very funny.Library copy
It is an amazing coincidence that my 31st Discworld novel is #31 since I have focused on the City Watch series, the Tiffany Aching series, and the recent, more humorous books.In this one, Sir Terry's prime focus on the follies of war.
Leading the group is Lieutenant Blouse, a thinking officer, who is derisively referred to as a Rupert.
Against all odds, this group (view spoiler)[of all women, except Blouse (hide spoiler)] manages to change the course of the war with their bravery, determination and common sense.Favorite quote: The enemy wasn't men, or women, or the old, or even the dead.
It was just bleedin' stupid people, who came in all varieties.
And no one had the right to be stupid.
Monstrous Regiment is the third book in the Industrial Revolution subseries of Discworld.
The book starts off with our main character, Polly, transforming herself into Oliver.
Yep, she’s chopping off her hair and dressing up like a boy so she can go and enlist in the military.
Women here are not allowed to dress like men or fight.
This Industrial Revolution book seemed a little different from the previous two because it didn’t introduce a revolutionary new industry.
It did have some ties to the previous books though, mostly in the form of character cameos.
Monstrous Regiment by Terry Pratchett deals with several of the seven deadly sins, namely pride, greed and wrath. Also "lesser" sins like stupidity, ignorance, misogyny and bigotry. It's a wonderful book!“The presence of those seeking the truth is infinitely to be preferred to the presence of those who think they've found it.” It's also very funny."Forget you were ever Polly. Think young male, that was the thing. Fart loudly and with self-satisfaction at a job well done, move like a puppet that’d had a couple of random strings cut, never hug anyone and, if you meet a friend, punch them."
Mr. Pratchett has a gentle and funny way of adding real world elements to his books, poking fun at some pretty difficult moral issues.
I can buy certain aspects of it- so a war-torn country has no sons, and an entire regiment is made up of women.
That reminded me of another Pratchett book- one I loved intensely- where a character commits suicide.
Terry Pratchett writes incredible female characters, anyway, and he did equally well with this one (missing only one monthly issue that he may not have wanted to discuss- but at one point in the book I thought it was going to be that moment..
**edit 11/26/13Born in the war-torn, misogynistic country of Borogravia, Polly Perks has grown up with the folksong echoing in the back of her mind.
Of course, after countless years of war, Borogravia recruitment is scraping the bottom of the barrel.
It isn't long before Polly discovers that she has joined in with a motley crew of trolls, vampires, Igors, and misfits--a truly monstrous regiment.
"Oliver" Perks will fit right in.Due to my disapproval of GR's new and rather subjective review deletion policy, 
the rest of my (long, quote-heavy) review is posted over here at Booklikes.
“The presence of those seeking the truth is infinitely to be preferred to the presence of those who think they've found it.” I really enjoyed this - it was funny from beginning to end. And it also had some good things to say :)
It seems that every genre fan worth the name should read at least one Pratchett novel.
I find the large body of works devoted to Discworld rather intimidating, which is why Monstrous Regiment is one of the few Discworld novels that I have read.
With the exception of a few preexisting characters, this novel stands well on it’s own.
Above and beyond that, I was drawn to this book because it is about women disguising themselves as men--and I have a weakness for stories about crossdressing heroines.
Monstrous Regiment was a quick, engaging read.
I liked all of the characters, and the development of the squad as a team and as friends.
Normally I would include a Pratchett book on my "clear-unparalled-genius" shelf but this one is not getting a spot on there.
I've read everything that Pratchett has written (Discworld, Gaimen collaborations, plus the Diggers/Truckers/Wings books and other discworld spin-offs) and while this book is clever in the trademark Pratchett way, the story is less funny because it is closer to the real world than many of the others in the series.
The charm of the Discworld is that normally its like looking at life through the wrong end of a telescope- the reality is further away than usual.
This one does the reverse and highlights real world issues; the legality of war, equal rights, and the politics of laying down your life for religion.
(view spoiler)[The "guys" are all chicks! (hide spoiler)] It's a plot gimmick that never gets old, even after the tenth surprise reveal!Haha, uh, NO.I'm sure his fans would tell me this wasn't the best Pratchett to start with. My choices are always so BAD for highly-rated authors! ;DHis humor isn't exactly a ha-ha kind of funny. More a very quiet kind of funny. So quiet I missed it entirely.
first third was a slog, second flew by, last was grand.

As a big fan of the City Watch, I resented that we were teased with cameos from Vimes and Angua but we didn't see their characters evolve, and I thought the ending was too contrived.
From the sidelines, I watched my fellow fans EXPLODE with love for the book and produce reams of fanart and fanfic, never participating myself.
I love the world they discover and how they shape it.
It's like my favorite author of the time reached forward into the future to write the book I needed when he was still in prime shape to write it.
Perks seeks her big slow-witted brother Paul, one of the many missing In-and-out troopers.
Their officer, Lieutenant Blouse, myopic desk jockey, creator of new filing system, is encouraged to keep his eye on the big picture and allow his commands to be anticipated.
"And the new day was a great big fish."Except for the frontspiece satirical political cartoon, most of cast are listed above.
Curvy females won't identify with Polly pretending to be a boy, but I was a scrawny flat kid, and got mistaken for male even as a long-haired teen.
U početku je dosta slabija knjiga od prosečne Pračetove, posle se poboljšala, ali sveukupno je svaka sledeća mi je sve slabija :(
My first Pratchett. Full of gems and wonderful lines. I look forward to reading more of his stuff.
I really enjoyed this - Terry Pratchett really just got it. And by "it" I mean, well, pretty much everything. Brilliant & witty, and very clever. I found it a little long though, a little too padded. I don't know if it's because I'm in a bit of a reading slump at the moment, but this took me way longer than it should have to read, mostly because I didn't feel the momentum I was looking for. I think this one will deserve a re-read down the track, when I'm back in my groove.
Što ja volim ovu knjigu! Mislim, Džekram, Bluza i sva ona silna preoblačenja, pa kako da ne valja :)
Ova Pračetova knjiga je prava mala poslastica za feministkinje :)Tema je odlična sa genijalnim scenama, ali je ja valjda nisam čitala u pravo vreme, poprilično sam razvukla pa me je i sama priča smorila.
4.5 stars This one is interesting - unlike many of the Discworld books, the story doesn't take place in it's usual settings of Ankh Morpork, with the three witches, etc.
After so many years of war, the country's population has been decimated, with most of the young men been recruited off to the front - including Paul, the brother of our main character, Polly.
I quite liked it, but then I usually like most of Pratchett's stories, especially the discworld ones (some of the Johnny books, I think, were a little lower on my rating scale).
Pratchett puts his own twist on the War Novel, a la Quiet on the Western Front or Storm of Steel, but with a very feminist angle.
Although that doesn't totally apply to this book either since it's rough being a female vampire or Igor or troll too.
In the basically failed nation of Borogravia, ruled by a (probably dead) Duchess, no one sees but prays to the ubiquitous pictures, under a nonsensical religious rule that seems to primarily punish women, with perpetual war to the point of famine, a final regiment is roused for the front.
With the subject matter--Pratchett taking on misogyny, religion, and war, this is a darker book than most.
But, there was a relatively small cast for the majority of the book (relative to the normal cast size), and very few appearances from older characters (which I admit I normally look for in Discworld novels introducing new characters).
The revelation at the end that could have made up for this (at least, to me the reader) was a little too much in the vein of triteness to stem my disappointment.
I know this was written soon after Pratchett got the awful news, so I really, really did try to like it...but I would much rather read his other works.
The Discworld novels have always been wacky and irreverent, but after first reading Night Watch and now Monstrous Regiment, I think Mr. Pratchett has made a leap forward in how he constructs his stories.
As Mr. Pratchett himself has reportedly said, he's stopped making his books jokey and started making them funny.
And I wholeheartedly agree.That said, I have to say that the ending could've used some work for me.
Other than this complaint, and it's a fairly minor one, I can easily say that I liked Monstrous Regiment.
