https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/21685.A_Drink_Before_the_War
I loved the tone...a blend of world-weary cynicism and unflappable optimism, garnished with self interest, and tempered by a good heart and a working moral compass.
Oh, and speaking of burning the world, Patrick and Angie have a sociopathic, "violence junkie" named Bubba (that’s right, Bubba) who does “dirty work” for them when they need it and hates everyone and everything, except the two of them.
Throughout the book, Lehane worked the gamut of my emotions, from anger to laughter, from outrage to compassion, from papa bear protectiveness to vengeance-seeking “kill 'em all and let the bodies fall where they may."In short, I had an absolute blast reading this book.
Dennis Lehane - from Boston Magazine A noir touch, complete with nifty madcap dialogue and a dark sense of humor makes this a fun detective tale.
Depravity, turf, shame, revenge all figure in this dark tale of embarrassing pleasures and public corruption.
Race in Boston is also given considerable attention.
It made me eager to read more.=============================EXTRA STUFFLinks to the author’s personal, Twitter and FB pagesOther books by Lehane I have read/reviewedKenzie and Gennaro-----Darkness, Take My Hand-----Sacred-----Gone, Baby Gone-----Prayers for Rain-----Moonlight MileThe Coughlin Series-----The Given Day-----Live by Night-----World Gone ByRead, but not Reviewed-----Mystic River - a masterpiece-----Shutter Island - not
My friend Kelly recently read the fourth book in this series and clued me into it. I read Mystic River and Shutter Island by Lehane and they were both okay reads. This one I LOVED. You have Angie Gennaro who is tough as nails except for where it comes to her abusive husband. Then Patrick Kenzie. Kenzie has lots of daddy issues. Kenzie might just have lots of all kinds of issues.My gun is, as Angie would say, "not a fuck-around thing." It's a .44 magnum automatic-an "automag," they call it gleefu
My friend Kelly recently read the fourth book in this series and clued me into it.
Kenzie might just have lots of all kinds of issues.My gun is, as Angie would say, "not a fuck-around thing." It's a .44 magnum automatic-an "automag," they call it gleefully in Soldier of Fortune and like publications-and I didn't purchase it out of penis envy or Eastwood envy or because I wanted to own the goddamned biggest gun on the block.
Racial tensions run hot in the book."Everyone needs someone to hate for some reason.""Everyone's too damn stupid." He said.I nodded.
As a gang war looms on the horizon, private detectives Patrick Kenzie and Angela Gennaro are hired to find a missing woman who stole some documents from a senator.
Consider the void filled to the point of overflowing.A Drink Before the War stars PI team Patrick Kenzie and Angela Gennaro.
I like that Lehane didn't make anything easy for Patrick and Angie.
Like a lot of good series detective books, the Dorchester setting was almost a character on its own.A Drink Before the War is damn near perfect for what it is.
Of course, they’d end up being some of the best books of their kind because Lehane is just that damn good.Patrick Kenzie and Angela Gennaro have been friends since their childhood growing up in a blue collar Boston neighborhood and now they’re partners in a detective agency.
What should be a routine job quickly turns bloody, and Patrick and Angela become the targets of both sides of a massive gang war.But since this is a series with smart-mouthed, gun-toting PI’s, there’s got to be a bad-ass friend they can turn to.
Posted at Shelf Inflicted Patrick Kenzie and Angela Gennaro are offered big bucks to find a cleaning woman who made off with some confidential documents.
Kenzie and Gennaro both grew up in blue-collar Dorchester and even though they’re tough, dealing with sleazy politicians and dangerous gangs takes all their energy, resolve and determination.
The detectives have their own issues to deal with too.
Patrick can relate, having suffered abuse at the hands of his own father.I loved this dark, gritty, and violent story that explores racial and class conflicts, politics, and the evil that lurks in people’s hearts.
this was surprisingly good.
: what a sarcastic little shit (of course I love him) : His nonconformist and dark humor had me giggling at every page, balancing perfectly the darkness lurking at every turn.
When I quoted Alt-J, an Indi-rock band for their (repeatedly) violent songs nobody agreed and people told me that the group wrote pieces of art and nothing else (Fitzpleasure, for example, is based on a gang-rape scene from Last Exit to Brooklyn).
Sorry, I digress, but all of that is to say that without even realizing it, people assumed that this catchy song written by a rock band was a piece of art and that the only problematic songs were from hip-hop.
So much of this book speaks to me.What didn't feel as intimate was the race relations/strife plot.
A Drink Before the War touches upon Boston's race problem in a grand, as well as intimate, way.Plot summary quickie: Two private investigators are tasked by local politicians to retrieve certain documents.
Big and small, political and personal storylines pulse throughout A Drink Before the War.I loved the two main characters, maybe not as people, but at least as well developed characters.
You feel filthy after reading this one, tarnished by the crooked politicians, the degenerates, gangland violence, unrepentant slayings, etc.
a corrupt Senator who's a pedophile who viciously rapes a helpless skinny ghetto black kid and the pimp is the kid's father!
And the character in my head was not Patrick Kenzie, the protagonist of the novel; it was his deceased father, Edgar, aka "The Hero;' a man who was, in Irish-American vernacular, a "street angel/house devil"I created a man who was a hero fireman and, later in life, a beloved city councilor, cherished by all except his family whom he abused and tortured and generally treated in a very, very bad manner.
*3.5 Stars* Once that ugliness has been forced into you, it becomes part of your blood, dilutes it, races through your heart and back out again, staining everything as it goes. The ugliness never goes away, never comes out, no matter what you do. Anyone who thinks otherwise is naive. There have been so many books I've read and fallen in love with, lately. I'd love to say I'm just that good at picking out books and taking extraordinary leaps to try new and exciting genres and different authors...
There have been so many books I've read and fallen in love with, lately.
I'd love to say I'm just that good at picking out books and taking extraordinary leaps to try new and exciting genres and different authors...but that's rarely the case.
I guess, even if just briefly, I need to talk about the book and it's characters right?
I can't say for sure it wouldn't have been higher or lower...but, from what I read, I liked that I felt deeply...and everyone knows I go based on feelings.
Angie is married to an abusive hubby, and you know at some point she's either going to get her revenge or her partner is going to step in, and I just wanted it to fucking happen already.
Just one time I'd like to see a book tackle a PI duo where the dude is being abused by his spouse and the woman of the team is constantly harassing him for a piece o' that swingin' sausage dangling betwixt his legs.
Just noticed I have the next book in this series, so I'll at least get that far.)In summation: Overdone character dynamic mixed with some fantastic prose puts this one in the middle for me.
Came across this series when looking for some good crime fiction (which is not cooked up by ghost writers and doesn't bear a name of James Patterson on its cover) to bind me over until the next Tana French's and Gillian Flynn's releases.
I think I am going to stick with it.The main characters of this series are Patrick Kenzie and Angie Gennaro, Boston PIs. In A Drink Before the War they get hired by an influential state senator to locate a woman who, according to him, stole some sensitive documents while performing her janitorial duties.
The city became almost one of the main characters in the novel, like Dublin did in Tana French's thrillers.
Private detectives Patrick Kenzie and Angie Gennaro are hired on to do what seems like a simple job - find a black cleaning lady that disappeared with some important documents.
Something that could kill both of them.I picked this up because I enjoy Dennis Lehane's writing and was looking for a new series since I just finished the last published book in Tana French's series.
Blame the white man.
They fuck us morning, noon, and night, but as long as they tuck us in with a kiss, we close our eyes and go to sleep, trading our bodies, our souls, for the comforting veneers of "civilization" and "security," the false idols of our twentieth-century wet dream.The characters are also real, and I thoroughly enjoyed the banter between Angie and Patrick.
Find all of my reviews at: http://52bookminimum.blogspot.com/Patrick Kenzie and Angie Gennaro are PIs who have been hired to find a woman believed to have stolen some possibly incriminating documents from a government official.
Lehane writes THE quintessential crime thriller with “A Drink Before the War”.
Patrick Kenzie is a character you just can’t help but immediately fall in love with and Angie is a perfect counterpart.
He is also smart enough to write a novel of just the right length.
If you are a lover of the crime thriller series, Kenzie & Gennaro should not be skipped.
Terrific first half of this book (4-star), but what a disappointment in the last half (2-star), and the ending was awful (1-star)Lehane shows great promise in the beginning, with tight dialogue and action sequences, some great humour, and interesting characters and plot.By the end of Chapter 4, he finds his true voice: Patrick and Angela are talking and flirting after the first day’s work.
She is a true partner, and complements Patrick in so many ways, both emotionally and as detectives.Start with the first book "A Drink Before the War"; the first half is amazing, the ending not so much, but the stories should be read in order.
It’s a shallow dependence on the exterior self, on how one looks instead of what one is.' If you’ve not tried this series yet then you really need to, the detectives get into more and more trouble as the investigation progresses, pretty soon their lives are in danger but a really serious problem is somehow mixed with little gems of humour that add so much to the story and characters.
When done right, I love reading about places I know and Lehane has done Boston oh so well in the past (e.g. The Given Day).
Dennis Lehane leverages two of Boston's notorious institutions, dirty politics and bad race relations, into a story that breathes into the world around it.
It speaks to my own willful blindness to the well-being of bigotry in the world around me that I had trouble figuring out the time period during which the story takes place (musical references to Lou Reed, and U2 had me off by a few decades before Lehane dropped in mentions of Urban Outfitters, Store 24 and the now closed Filene's store landed me somewhere near the time of the book's publication in the early 90s- corrections welcome!)Long of the short, consider me signed up for the next one.
A Drink Before the War was my first Dennis Lehane book and an excellent start to the Patrick Kenzie and Angie Gennaro series.
The only thing I wondered was, why the hell did it take me so long before reading this book?I liked Patrick and Angie, I didn't like Phil, Angie's husband and wondered how long before she would get rid of him.
But there was one person beside the detective duo that I liked; Bubba.
After reading "Shutter Island", which I liked, (with reservations that have grown in hindsight), and having seen the film "Mystic River", which I also liked, I decided to hunt down some of Dennis Lehane's other novels.
Let me explain; While Shutter Island had an interesting plot with clever twists, an interesting lead character, and a well written phrase every few pages it suffered with generic dialogue.
Lehane's star characters, two private investigators named Patrick Kenzie and Angela Gennaro made their debuts here and I simply do not understand how either was found interesting enough by the publisher to warrant sequels.
The dialogue in Lehanes debut novel is so cliched it overwhelms the already weak plot.
9/10A great start to this series, I had high expectations from the off after some very positive reviews and my enjoyment (if that is the right word) of the film, "Gone, Baby, Gone", but this was better than anticipated.
The story starts with a light hearted tone with a private investigator, Kenzie, meeting with some high powered political players who want him to recover some missing documents that a cleaner has stolen.
Let the mayhem ensue!The story goes at a fair old pace after this meeting (the book isn't exactly long at something like 300 pages of large print) with things moving quickly in the investigation into finding the missing cleaner.
Next!
LOVED IT!Welcome to the streets of Dorchester, Boston (late '80s)!
I think I found my new addiction in the form of Patrick Kenzie and Angela Gennaro (well, especially Patrick, but I love her too)...
and this is Lehane's debut novel!!Prominent Boston politicians hire Kenzie and Gennaro to retrieve some "documents" that went missing when a former cleaning lady, Jenna Angeline quit working at their offices.
Made sure everything went like clockwork with a slap.
there seem to be too many people trying to make disappear the two too nosy detectives.I loved the story and the characters.
and the "black" part of Dorchester with it's poverty, unemployment and gang problems.
Hired to find just one little old cleaning lady they become embroiled in gang warfare and political sleaze, leaving dead bodies wherever they go with a clever comment, a well placed shot and a heavy heart.Halfway through I was about done with Lehane, the book was reading like a cross between weak populist fiction and a modern take on the hardboiled detective; it wasn't bad but it wasn't enough to get me excited over finishing the series, I was more enthusiastic about finishing the book and moving on to something better.
Exciting read, but a lot of violence. Lebane is a good writer, but so sure that I will read the books following this. I need something a bit lighter.
I like Lehane's work, and I suspect if he hadn't billed this series as a team endeavor (Kenzie and Gennaro) I would have gotten to it a lot sooner.
The story is encountered from one perspective and one perspective alone.Patrick Kenzie is a Boston P.I. with plenty of street smarts and genuine depth.
His partner, Angie Gennaro, is the stone-cold fox he's been in love with all his life.
Kenzie and Gennaro are hired to get them back and in the process are plunged into a height-of-summer gang war verging perilously toward riot.Lehane dives fearlessly into the seedy underpinnings of Boston's race relations.
I was also interested in checking out Lehane's debut novel, the one that got him into the game.
The story is about two Boston private eyes doing some investigating on behalf of some wealthy political types, only to find themselves embroiled in a mix of crime and conspiracy that was never part of the original deal.
I did still love the Kenzie and Gerrano characters, and Lehane strikes solid gold in a few places, but he also strikes shit too, and it's all mixed in to the same story.
Just plain good as far as crime novels go.
3.5The first book in the 'Kenzie & Gennaro' series and I am impressed enough to continue the series.
I do not think this book was as good as 'Mystic River' or 'Shutter Island' but that doesn't mean I thought it was bad.
I think the thing that weakened this story for me was the lack of character development.
Kenzie's background developed somewhat as the story progressed but other than his background relationship with his father there was really nothing else described that told me about the man.
This is a good story, and I like Lehane's style so I will certainly continue with the series.
3.5 stars out of 5.0I enjoyed this novel. It is written in a relatively light-weight style, but doesn't break the boundaries of serious dialogue when the story requires it. Both protagonists have their problems. Angie Gennaro tolerates her abusive husband and Patrick Gennaro must deal with his hero-worship of an abusive father. Good PI story with tolerable levels of violence and death. Look forward to reading the next in the series.
Published in 1994, the dirty, combustive energy of Lehane's debut seems appropriate for a novel that climaxes on Independence Day. Starting with a great title, A Drink Before the War takes place in and around present day Boston, where young private detective Patrick Kenzie is summoned to the Ritz-Carlton to meet state senators Sterling Mulkern and Brian Paulson.
With a gang war ready to ignite, the detectives find themselves questioning their livelihoods and their relationship to each other.The novel is a lightning fast read with writing that at times seemed like either Kenzie was making light of Philip Marlowe, or Lehane was riffing on Raymond Chandler.
