https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/17333230-the-luminaries
The curious case of the 3-star review… I reviewed The Luminaries for We Love This Book; here I’ll simply attempt to explain why I gave such an accomplished book only 3 stars. It’s just the sort of book I should have given 5 stars: my MA is in Victorian Lit., Charles Dickens is a favorite author, and I adore historical fiction, particularly Victorian pastiche: Possession, The Crimson Petal and the White and English Passengers.And yet The Luminaries didn’t grab me. It has all the elements of a pi
It’s just the sort of book I should have given 5 stars: my MA is in Victorian Lit., Charles Dickens is a favorite author, and I adore historical fiction, particularly Victorian pastiche: Possession, The Crimson Petal and the White and English Passengers.And yet The Luminaries didn’t grab me.
In this respect, the novel appears too clever for its own good.It’s a somewhat dispiriting experience for the reader to feel the plot winding down around page 600, only to realize that another 230+ pages remain.
But when, as is the case here, nearly a quarter of the page count feels superfluous, there’s something ever so slightly off.I wish I could have deemed The Luminaries a five-star book.
I have an unsophisticated mind.To any reader who reads books as an art critic views a great master, they will read and hear the subtleties of the writer's mind as they structure their work, layer upon layer, until a masterpiece is drawn.
It is a book for the discerning reader, and not the 'pop' reader, who likes his fiction to the point, entertaining, engrossing, informative, and exercising (to a degree)...
The Luminaries is an average story.It is like so many winners of the Tate Prize in art.
Ant & Dec perhaps!So I found The Luminairies a master writer's/crtitic's wet dream, but as a story...
I was never the reader for this book.
I'm feeling pretty miserable about the fact that I couldn't get into it, forced myself to read halfway, started again and then gave up in despair.The Luminaries is a very long mystery novel which did not enlighten or move me.
4. This book has two fatal flaws for me: 1) fussy structure over character; 2) metaphor gone wild.5.
Although it's not really metaphor gone wild; more like metaphor that is so subtle as to be irrelevant to most readers...unless they know astrology well enough that they can pick up what she's doing using astrological concepts to illuminate character behaviour/plot.

As it unfolds, the interlocking stories and shifting narrative perspectives of the twelve--now thirteen--men bring forth a mystery that all are trying to solve, including Walter Moody, who has just gotten off the Godspeed ship with secrets of his own that intertwine with the other men's concerns.This is not an important book.
And there's more between Dunedin and Hokitika to titillate the adventurous reader.Primarily, THE LUMINARIES is an action-adventure, sprawling detective story, superbly plotted, where the Crown Hotel men try to solve it, while sharing secrets and shame of their own.
Click here to watch a video review of this book on my channel, From Beginning to Bookend. An impressive literary feat – intricate, challenging, and singularly structured to mimic the waning moon – that will likely appeal to fans of The Woman in White by Wilkie Collins or anyone in the mood for a demanding mystery of coincidence and collusion laced with corpses, prostitutes, and buried treasure.
Do you like writing that is formal, elegant and with a systematic style that ties in  brilliantly to both plot and character?7.
Ms. Catton at the age of 28 has written a novel that will stand the test of time.This book reminded me of a complex mandala ....broad at the outside and like a whirlpool draws you in quicker and quicker so that you are immersed in a world that you never want to leave.
This novel is systematic, mystical and endlessly fascinating.
Everyone here is raving about this book including people who write great novels themselves.
I'm feeling pretty miserable about the fact that I couldn't get into it, forced myself to read halfway, started again and then gave up in despair.
I liked the beginning, started to identify with the first character, Moody, then lost the plot when the other 14 or so main characters took over the story.
Sure, I haven't read any 19th century novels for a long time and have forgotten the style.
I was more suited as a reader to Emily Perkins' The Forrests, another long and challenging NZ novel but more character-based.
Once I knew this it all fell into place – and I occasionally had to banish mental pictures of the early 90's Creme Egg ads when certain characters appeared – but given that a) I know far more than I'd like about astrology and b) I think I read quite closely I was all the more impressed with Catton's characterisation for not having been able to help making it ridiculously obvious as many authors would have.A drawback of the astrological scheme is that the planet-in-sign chaptering led to rather a lot of one-on-one conversations.
The heavy-lidded sensuality of the Lion holds court throughout The Luminaries, its beautiful imagery and its rich descriptive prowess openly displayed; well-hung Leo also clearly influenced this book's impressive length.
Leo is represented by Dick (lol) Mannering, a goldfields magnate.Virgo the Virgin is the sign of this reviewer.
For shame, Eleanor Catton, you have betrayed the Zodiac with your libelous portrait of a so-called Virgo!Okay here's the one thing that bothered me about The Luminaries: the way it treated its Asian characters.
The novel The Luminaries was born under the sign of Capricorn.
“The proper way to understand any social system was to view it from above.” ― Eleanor Catton, The Luminaries There is certainly a lot to like about Eleanor's novel.
Or looked at slightly differently:XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXxx..Compare this to Nabokov's ADA: Part 1: 326 pgs, Part 2: 120, Part 3: 86, Part 4: 32, Part 5: 25Or looked at slightly differently:111111111111111111111111111111112222222222223333333334444555Catton is following in the brave tradition of Nabokov, Pynchon, et al in constructing an elaborately structured novel.
The problem with Catton is all the writers I want to compare her to (Pynchon, Dickens, Carey, Nabokov) demolish her prose.
As a quick glance into my mindset, I'll post a comparison here and maybe you can understand why I just couldn't get into the book.Both books included parts where people were looking into mirrors, as a way for the author to describe what drives these superficial, yet self-conscious, people.One of my favorite passages from Revolutionary Road describes *so much* about the character in a single line: "He looked at himself in the mirror, tightening his jaw and turning his head a little to one side to give it a leaner, more commanding look, the face he had given himself in mirrors since boyhood and which no photograph had ever quite achieved..." Amazing.
While the reviewer sees these traits as a mark of (meta)literary genius, for me it was just the opposite:"But it is also a massive shaggy dog story; a great empty bag; an enormous, wicked, gleeful cheat.
Is it worthwhile to spend so much time with a story that in the end isn't invested in its characters?"In that respect, my answer is decidedly "no," in marked contrast to my experience reading Hannah Kent's Burial Rites - a spare, but beautifully written historical novel of few yet deeply invested characters that also unravels a murder mystery.
Wow, I have never ever in my life read a book like this before!
A book that made me so confused that I was on the verge of giving up on ever understanding what was going on, but at the same time I was extremely intrigued and needed to know what was happening.
It basically feels like Eleanor Catton took my mind and tossed it into a tornado before letting everything settle in great understanding.
Everything fits perfectly, and this perfection entwines with the story which starts out as a confusing mess but ends with all the answers.
This is one of the most impressive books I have read in a long time. Complex and filled with fascinating characters that held my interest, in part because time and place were also so vivid and real. I found it very enjoyable!
I love reading award winning books and/or critically acclaimed books because they make me feel superior I like to know what those with supposedly excellent taste and years of experience in critiquing books think is top quality.
And I know nothing about astrology and I was able to figure (most) of it out so it shouldn’t put anyone off reading the book.As for the chapter thing?
I am going to award it three stars because it took A LOT of effort to write and absolute respect for that, the plot was intricately woven and I LOVED that… but the narrator needed to be punched, the book needed some serious editing and the characters needed to be more rounded… so I think three is fair enough!!
Why on earth does Ms Catton have the gall to expect me to spend so much time on a glorious gallimaufry that gets untangled quite nicely, yes, thank you, but at great, irritating length?
But this particular reader had trouble storing quite so much information about 15 white men, so I ended up thinking that maybe Dickens got it right, giving a character an unmistakeable quirk: an odd name like Uriah Heep, or an eccentric way of speaking, like Jingle.
But for all that, a literary prize winner that demands so much time should offer more, surely?
The Luminaries: What Hath Eleanor Catton Wrought? Tomorrow, and tomorrow, and tomorrow,Creeps in this petty pace from day to day,To the last syllable of recorded time;And all our yesterdays have lighted foolsThe way to dusty death. Out, out, brief candle!Life's but a walking shadow, a poor player,That struts and frets his hour upon the stage,And then is heard no more. It is a taleTold by an idiot, full of sound and fury,Signifying nothing.-Macbeth, Act Five, Scene Five, William Shakespeare Elean
These interesting tidbits of information do not address, nor should address the literary merit of this massive novel.Having quoted Shakespeare's "Macbeth," I do not intimate that The Luminaries should be considered a tale told by an idiot.
The ultimate question is whether Catton's tale, artfully crafted or not, leaves the reader with the satisfaction of having completed a work that leaves a lasting impression, or at least some semblance of significance.The Luminaries is replete with diggers, businessmen, politicians, Chinese miners and dispensers of opium, ladies of the evening, to use the appropriate Victorian vernacular.
I LOVED this- best book I've read in a long time.
It gripped me from the beginning.
Its a very clever, very well plotted intrigue of a book.
Layer upon layer is added to the intrigue and all is not revealed until the final pages.
Highly recommended.May 2018Still loved this on rereading.
The audio was excellent.
It is the time of the gold rush in New Zealand, the 1860s, where a rich and full cast are brought together in what amounts almost to a comedy of errors.
For a lover of historical fiction this book was a real treat!
Recommended.
Where the first novel was set in a deliberately non-specific contemporary Western milieu, the new book is tied firmly to a time and place: the New Zealand gold rush town of Hokitika in 1865-6.
Catton does the same thing in The Luminaries, with a different set of concerns – but the extent of it only becomes apparent once you’ve finished.Before I get further into that, some plot: we begin on 27 January 1866, when Walter Moody, a Scottish lawyer, walks into the smoking room of Hokatika’s Crown Hotel, disturbing twelve men in conference.
This is the South Island of New Zealand, circa 1866, in the wet, green folds of the Southern Alps where they tumble into the Tasman Sea. Eleanor Catton’s The Luminaries is also the frontier of storytelling—a no-holds-barred, raucous flight of imagination that I devoured with Epicurean pleasure.
The novel begins with a crowded, opulent jumble of characters and detail, like a sky full of dazzling stars.
When it’s not only pleasurable, but intellectually stimulating, laugh-out-loud surprising and historically illuminating, you’ve got a five-star read.
i think my expectations were mostly based on the book's setting - i really have not read very much new zealand-based fiction, and then the chunk-factor was running high for me -- it's a big, fat novel, 800+ pages.
i think i get what catton was aiming for in this purposeful choice - some characters are represented in the 'stellar' phase of the novel and others are 'planetary'.
as the book becomes more widely read, i will be interested to hear what others think.
This is my speech for the launch of Eleanor Catton's The Luminaries at Unity Books in Wellington, 3 August 2013. 'Fergus' is Fergus Barrowman, my husband, and Ellie's New Zealand Publisher. I was honoured that Ellie asked me to launch her novel.http://bit.ly/16T1j5h
This is the most cliched review you'll read today but: Show, don't tell.Like come on, guys!
I didn't finish the book, but I'm hoping someone posts a spoilerish summary soon because in terms of plot and setting, the story is great.
But the story is weighed down by overwrought description.
Don't tell me who someone is; show me through clever use of anecdotes and dialogue.Catton can write circles around almost everyone (seriously: she maintains a Dickensian English throughout the entire tome), but until she learns the cardinalest of cardinal rules of writing, I will not be reading her work.
EXCELLENT! It's really a masterpiece and hard to wrap my head around the idea that the author Eleanor Catton was only 28 when she wrote it and she won the Man Booker. Brilliant! IT took me a while to read it because the book is very dense. There's a lot to process all the time, however once you get past page 300 I feel things get a lot easier to process. I recommend the hardcover because the typography is well spaced in comparison to the paperback. Definitely a must read.
(view spoiler)[Bettie's Books (hide spoiler)]OMG OMG can I just do the gasp breathe gasp thing here
This book needed (and didn't get) a ruthless editor.Ok, I get that this is supposed to be in the style of a nineteenth century novel, since it takes place in New Zealand in the 1860's.But all this quaintness and repetition got on my nerves.None of the nineteenth century novels I've read have been so redundant and long winded.I've read that writers should show and not tell; and cut anything that doesn't advance the story.
the twelve signs of the Zodiac) local men to share their separate knowledge of events (an artificial plot device if I ever saw one) that our understanding of the story advances.
There’s this astrological and zodiac aspect to this book, which I didn’t think I would understand.
I didn’t want to read such a huge book in the ebook format.
Each chapter begins by telling you what’s gonna happen, like, Jupiter in Sagittarius, so you can figure out who’s Jupiter and you can relate the characteristics of Sagittarius to the character who represents it.
9. You don’t need to know a damn thing about astrology, mining, banking or shipping to savor this book.
Also, I would have liked to know more about Walter Moody and Ben Lowenthal.
When we remember those whom we have loved, and miss them, naturally we hope for their safety and their happiness, wherever they might be.
Perhaps we don't know to whom we're speaking; perhaps we ask before we truly know who's listening, or before we even believe that listener exists.
But I judge it's a very fine beginning, to make a practice of remembering those people we have loved.""True feeling is always circular--either circular, or paradoxical--simply because its cause and its expression are two halves of the very same thing!
Any man who disagrees with me has never been in love--not truly."
Just as astrology (which incidentally Catton regards as “silly”), represents the interaction of the planets and constellations, so goes the course of the story.
(See Aaron's great review about the role of the astrology: http://www.typographicalera.com/lumin...
Like most excessively beautiful persons, he had studied his own reflection minutely and, in a way, knew himself from the outside best; he was always in some chamber of his mind perceiving himself from the exterior.” Of the town whore Anna, and her clients: “If they spoke at all, they spoke about other women—the sweethearts they had lost, the wives they had abandoned, their mothers, their sisters, their daughters, their wards.
