https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/142465.Flash_for_Freedom
As a piece of historical fiction oddly reminiscent of old boy adventure books, yet with a definite MATURE audience in mind (one can’t stress this enough), The Flash series remains awfully tough to beat.
Chronology is of minor importance to this series (it has been intentionally written that way by Fraser), so you should be fine.If you want to get a couple of the novels in one volume, I’d be a real prick neglecting to encourage tracking down the absolutely spiffing Everyman’s Library edition, which contains the original, this one, and the fifth entry, Flashman in the Great Game.
Perhaps, dear reader, you finished The Adventures of Huckelberry Finn and said “that was pretty good, but what really would have put this book over the top is if they replaced Huck with a borderline sociopath (sporting a full set of whiskers):Well, George MacDonald Fraser has answered your prayers with the third entry in the Flashman series.
The plot moves Flashman all over the place pretty quickly, and the story can feel a little schizophrenic at times which had me toying with the idea of knocking off half a star.
Here begin Flashy’s adventures on the high seas and America, where at various times he is dragooned and bluffs his way into nearly every role concerning the slave trade: buyer, trader, seller, driver on a plantation, underground railroad smuggler, anti-slavery double agent, almost even a slave himself at one point.It’s all tremendous stuff, full of the usual (on Fraser’s part) erudition and wit and (on Flashy’s part) lechery, as well as, of course, the historical tweaking: Flashman meets a young Disraeli, a young Lincoln, and even serves as the inspiration for Harriet Beecher Stowe’s famous book.
Who is Flashman?
This book has him fleeing scandal in Europe aboard a slave ship bound for Africa and then America.
As you can imagine, a series of misadventure ensues and has him doing Flashman type things on plantations and steamboats circa the 1840's.
The word "n***** is used liberally throughout the book (as it was in prior books to describe natives over in India.) Flashman is more of a bigot than a racist though, he despises everyone below his social standing.
(For example, Abraham Lincoln in this book.)Recommended for fans of historical fiction with a sense of humor.
If you combined Edmund Blackadder's ethics, James Bond's way with the ladies, and Forest Gump's ability to be present at history's great moments -- and dressed him up in a handsome 19th century uniform with dashing facial hair -- you'd have Flashman.This is by far my favorite of the series thus far.
It's an insightful and not terribly flattering portrayal of the great man that -- were it not for Fraser's ability to regularly pull literary rabbits out of hats like this -- seems too well done for a book this much fun.
I don't care that Flashman is a bounder, a cad and a coward; indeed I love him for those unabashed qualities. I read him for the wit and the absurdity, but this book was about the slave trade and there is very little to amuse. Fraser doesn't try and to his credit I think this is a successful exposition of the situation and an examination of the attitudes that made slavery palatable to some - very effective, in fact. But while this was as inventive as the earlier books, I missed the fun.
Historical fiction of Englishman, soldier, traveler, talented linguist& charming scoundrel who visits africa in journey back home. Though as texas slave dealer he have to find his way back through pre- Civil War ameircan states first. After plot of politicts in England. He finds himself friend of slaves and Abraham Lincoln too, who helps him in court. Unjust,treacherous,cowardice and with greate luck, Harry Flashman expeienced in first afgan War(read first book)always gets back to his wealth and famyly in England.
Fraser really revels in his un-PC approach to the telling of these stories but this one is particularly hard on a sensitive 21st century soul like myself.While he has created a reasonable context for Flashman, both a realistic portrayal of the times and a particularly selfish hero, just seeing nigger, coon and relentless references to black people looking like monkeys used so freely and without judgement is hard to take at times, especially the callous way slaves are dealt with at sea.
Of course, his participation in both these occupations is involuntary and since they both involve personal danger he isn't well pleased with either of them.This book was very good, perhaps my favorite so far, but it did have me cringing in places.
Maybe you could just say he's a particularly unenlightened 19th century character.By the third book you'd think it would have been pounded into my skull that Flashman is Not a Nice Person.
The third Flashman novel is relatively dark in comparison to the two that came before it.
The darkness is largely due to the subject matter: slavery and slave trade.
Along the way, we see the dark side of slavery (is there any other?) in its many forms.Flash for Freedom is a fine yarn of historical fiction about the scoundrel that is Flashman - it is not as light in mood as the first two parts, but still very enjoyable with great writing and wit.
From BBC Radio 4 Extra:It's 1848 and the philandering cad Sir Harry Flashman becomes embroiled in slavery. Now a reluctant secret agent, Sir Harry Flashman finds himself fleeing for his life.Stars Joss Ackland and Rhys Meredith.
In the third novel in the Flashman Papers series, Harry Flashman again battles for self-preservation as he journeys on a slaving ship to Africa and then arrives in the United States where he finds himself working on first one then the other side of the slavery/abolition debate. Politically incorrect, yet ever so roguishly entertaining.
Flashman's picaresque adventures take him to West Africa and ultimately America, where he meets Lincoln and tries his hand at slaving as well as abolitionism. Not for the politically correct.
"FLASH FOR FREEDOM!" (1971) Book ReviewIn my review of  "FLASHMAN IN THE GREAT GAME" (1975) , I had stated that there are at least six novels from George MacDonald Fraser’s series about the adult adventures of Harry Flashman, the cowardly bully from "Tom Brown’s School Days", that I consider among the best that the author has written. One of these six novels happens to be "FLASH FOR FREEDOM!".Published in 1971, the novel featured Harry Flashman’s experiences with the Atlantic trade of African sl
From the moment Captain Fairbrother sent Flashman to Washington D.C. to the moment when the Englishman boarded the Sultana Queen with George Randolph and black Underground Railroad agents posing as slaves, the story raced at a fast pace.
I don’t know what Wilberforce would have made of that, or my old friend John Brown, but the ship’s company took it straight-faced – mind you, they knew better than to do anything else.”Another scene that stood out was when Cassy, the light-skinned slave with whom he had fled the Mississippi River Valley aboard a steamboat, says good-bye to Flashman in Ohio before departing for Canada:”’There,’ says Mrs. Payne.
But I'd make the case that they are far from glorifying or romanticizing the attitudes of the time; instead they have a sneaky way of making you feel guilty by association, of recognizing uncomfortable parallels with the modern world.This volume particularly hits home for we Americans, as it deals with the slave trade.
One of Harry Flashman's few positive qualities is a sharp eye for a hypocrite, and we see the two-faced dealings of British lords who abhor far-off slavery but own local factories where children are worked to death, and the paternalistic American abolitionists who think of themselves as benevolent angels rescuing "simple creatures" from bondage.
I love history which was why it was easy for my father to get me to read them but its Flashman's wicked humor (and any PC version was happily left to other writers) that really committed me to these books.
I in turn wanted so badly to hear the stories of Flashman during the Civil War but unfortunately GMF was only able to get one done before he left this world.
I will always wonder about my missed opportunities of hearing Flashman with the likes of Sherman, Grant, and so many more.
La carrera política de nuestro truhán favorito termina antes de empezar cuando le hacen pasar por tramposo durante una partida de cartas totalmente casual e intrascendente pero en la que juegan personas importantes y en la que reacciona a la acusación de forma casi homicida.
Harry es embarcado inmediatamente para que abandone Inglaterra pero se enrola sin saberlo en un barco destinado a actividades esclavistas, que en ese momento de mediados del siglo XIX no gozan de cobertura legal como antes.
Más que probablemente el cuarto en la línea de tiempo de la vida de nuestro embaucador favorito pero quinto libro de la serie de HarryFlashman.¿Quiere saber más de este libro, sin spoilers?
Wow. I learned a lot about the slave trade during the 1840's.
However, Flashman managed to get himself in and out of trouble and save a slave in the process.
He used the derogatory word Nigger over and over again but that was to be expected because that was the term used for black slaves during this time period and for years after.
I still highly recommend this book as do I for the previous Flashman books and I'm moving on to the next in the series with hopes the George MacDonald Fraser continues to amuse me.
Before anyone jumps down my throat, I know a lot of people who love Frazer's Flash books. Plenty of them are discerning readers. So this less than stellar review is strictly my opinion. But, for me, it wasn't funny and I really hated the main character, although that was at least in part the point. He's a coward. I read it because I'd heard from many people about how good the books were. I'll never read another. Life is too short.The best thing about this book was the cover, which was more barbaric than the one featured here.
another great one on the series. love the flashman. he is up to his neck in trouble and blamming everyone else as usual. he is so much fun to follow.
Fraser is too good at scenery and character. There is something spooky about it. Worth pulling from the shelf, if only because the free time makes itself.
If you haven't read this series, you've missed a delicious combination of humor and history.
At one moment philosophical and learned, the next selfish and spineless, always happy to turn a blind eye to pain and suffering, or worse, to turn it into something with a Flashy-positive outcome:It’s always amused me to listen to the psalm-smiting hypocrisy of nigger-lovers at home - and in the states - who talk about white savages raping the coast and carrying poor black innocents into bondage.
If you can't stand reading it, maybe you'd prefer to imagine how the living descendants of the slave trade might be feeling instead) then this is a gripping, eye-opening read.
George MacDonald Fraser has a brilliant knack for placing his anti-hero, Harry Flashman, in the thick of real, historical crossroads...and like the intricate, moving gears of a Swiss timepiece, making it all click and groove entertainingly.
(Sometimes it's a bit contrived, rushing Flashman here and there just to get him at the center of actual historical events in time---e.g.
Harry Flashman is just enough of a self-serving, self-aggrandizing, cowardly, sex-mad cad, to keep the reader's mouth agape---yet not to the extent that we despise him or are repulsed; He can have streaks (or flashes, if you will) of accidental bravery or chivalry (which more often than not, turn-out to be, again, self-serving...usually at bottom to save his skin, or to "roger" some attractive woman).
I have all the Flashman books authored by Fraser and feel strongly that FLASH FOR FREEDOM!
If it isn't, it's definitely among the top two; Flashy's saga is imbued with high points aplenty.FLASH FOR FREEDOM!
Secondly, Fraser's usual historical research is put to extremely powerful use in FLASH FOR FREEDOM!
The historical highlights of the book however are Flashy's two encounters with Abe Lincoln, prior to his residence in the White House.
I've yet to see another historical character presented this well by Fraser in the entire Flashman body of work.
FLASH FOR FREEDOM!
The latest in the Flashman books I've read and it has all the hallmark qualities; the anti-hero with his unapologetic selfishness, brazen cowardice, bullying, seducing and adventuring - this time through the United States during its slaving years via a nasty flyby in Africa in the late 1840s.
The racism, the language and the cruelty is all self evident, some of it inflicted by Flashman himself as a typical way of serving his own ends.
This book itelf was written in the 60s/70s and is the fictional memoir of a figure from the 19th century.
Now, Flash has nothing against the idea of having slaves but he dislikes the position.
They are getting new slaves in Africa, meeting and fighting Amazons.
He finds himself forced to rescue a slave on the run, something he dislikes, and he really despises the guy.
Later on he is involved with a black girl on the run, something he likes much better.
He meets Lincoln when he was still a young senator and tells him that you can fool some people all the time.
Lincoln will later appear again and come to the rescue.Excellent stuff.
While this book is emphatically not for the faint of heart, the amount of knowledge regarding the slave trade that George MacDonald Fraser transmits to the reader is prodigious.
He conveys, in sickening detail, what a slave-trader vessel looked like, what a typical voyage consisted of, how the enslaved people were acquired and transported, and the methods by which slavers sought to avoid detection on the high seas or conviction before a court of adjudication in case they were apprehended.
Again, reader beware: There is all too much here that is heart-rending, as in the case of the character Cassy.


