https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/17977.The_Ancestor_s_Tale
After a while, she became increasingly sure that his hostile feelings were rooted in some kind of personal disappointment he'd suffered, though she had no idea what it might have been.I asked her which Dawkins she'd read, and, like most people, it was The Selfish Gene and The God Delusion.
Rather than tell you what's ugly and wrong about Intelligent Design, he concentrates his energies on showing you what's beautiful and right about evolution, and how, far from contradicting traditional religious beliefs, it reveals them with a clarity that previous generations have been unable to see.
The astonishing thing about evolution, which forms the core of this book, is that it shows how the bird and ant truly are my brother and sister.
Stuff like that.Pre-eminent among these to me, for sheer mind-expanding awe, is the fact that life on this planet has developed precisely once, as far as we know, and everything on earth has evolved from it.
Squirrels are not ‘closer’ to this creature than humans are: we and they are equally related, having been evolving independently for the same amount of time.The Ancestor's Tale takes exactly this approach to exploring evolution.
Dawkins's word for a common ancestor of more than one species is ‘concestor’, and there are only about 40 of them (!) between us and the origin of life more than three billion years ago.
People think he's mean and nasty and heartless and elitist.
Okay, I might have to grant people the "elitist" bit, because, well, I'm a bit of an elitist myself.
But I dare you all to read this book and then tell me that Dawkins isn't a total squishy.
In general, he's a sweetheart.I will stop fangirling the man, now, and simply tell you that the science in this book?
Dawkins makes some interesting speculations about how various species could be physically isolated in the lake, in order to allow the species to branch out due to evolution.Dawkins makes a strong effort to avoid repeating stories that he told in other books.
Such a wheel could not evolve in a large organism, which would involve twisting blood vessels.I personally loved the renaming of the concept of Intelligent Designers from "Argument from Irreducible Complexity" to "Argument from Personal Incredulity." The argument "says less about nature than about the poverty of your imagination."Dawkins speculates about what would happen if the "tape of evolution" were to be re-run in the forward direction, starting from pre-Cambrian times?
For instance, had a meteorite not wiped out the dinosaurs, “we” would probably still be little more than tiny rodents scavenging for scraps at night while the REAL rulers of the planet slept.Dawkins touches on this latter aspect in the final chapter, with a series of thought experiments about how things might go down if evolution were to “rerun” from the beginning.
Perhaps one of the most mind blowing statements Dawkins makes is in reference to eukaryotic cells, which comprise every form of life on this planet except for bacteria.
In fact he goes so far as to say he thinks that the formation of eukaryotic cells was probably MORE unfathomable than the initial spark of life itself!
Dawkins breaks the information into short chapters, or rendezvous points, relating things back to animals we've already encountered along the way.
What I particularly liked was how Dawkins doesn't make guesswork for periods that we just don't know about.
I was left feeling a little overwhelmed by the end and so I'll finish with a quote from Dawkins that encapsulates things - "It is not pride in my book but reverence for life itself that encourages me to say, if you want a justification for the latter, open the former, anywhere at random.
For most of the book he sticks to his strengths, i.e., clear and exciting explanations of the beautiful yet structured diversity of the natural world.Lots of nifty thoughts about how evolution works and how mind-shatteringly cool life is.
There's an interesting structure to the book, traveling backwards in time from today to the origin of life, and telling tales or lessons from each of our major ancestors along the way.
It made me appreciate how much more there is to life than the small handful of mammals, fish, birds, and trees we usually think about.
6-stars[NOTE: I like to provide a 6-star rating to a book when it has been able to keep me in a state of amazement almost continuously for at least 80% of its content.]A terrific book on evolution from the vast spectrum of creatures on this planet.
Truly, a lot of information has been provided.
Almost every topic that I read in the book kept me in a state of awe while I learnt new things.
The book is a must-read for anyone who wishes to get mesmerized by stuff that exists on Planet Earth itself!

The subtitle of the book is A Pilgrimage to the Dawn of Evolution, and it’s a long journey backward in time from present-day humans to the beginnings of life four million years ago.You’ll meet Cro-Magnon man, the Neanderthals, chimpanzees and gorillas, monkeys, rodents and rabbits, reptiles, sharks, flatworms, sponges, fungi, plants, and far more, each with their own unique role and story to tell.Scientific understanding is, and ever will be, in a state of transition.
He stops often along this journey back in time to introduce interesting life forms and their evolutionary sidebars, evoking wonder and appreciation for the real creation story that far exceeds any ancient tales.
After finishing The Selfish Gene, I rushed out to the store to buy another of Dawkins' books.
The narrative traces humans' evolutionary ancestry, from primates to "concestor zero," or the beginning of life on Earth.Dawkins' knowledge of zoology shines as he gives examples of the fascinating animals that share some of our genes.
Readers will undoubtedly learn about plants and animals they had never heard of before, from Australian marsupials to the strange creatures that inhabit Madagascar.
The book reads like a novel, and after finishing it I feel more connected, not just to my own species, but to all the creatures around me that share in this crazy thing called life.
I had read a few of his books before I started this one, but they were all around 300 to 400 pages.
What an interesting way to write a book!
The Dodo's Tale is a sad story about extinction.
Dodos never had to deal with predators, so they never evolved any ways of escaping from them.
There are many more stories like these in the book.
If you've never read anything by Dawkins, I would recommend The Selfish Gene or River Out of Eden.
But if you have already read a few of his books, this is a good one that goes a little more in depth.
As with the pilgrims in The Canterbury Tales, each of Dawkins tales is about pilgrims on their way to a common destination, in this case the beginning of life.
Each group of species marches back in time rendezvousing where they share their most recent common ancestor, what Dawkins calls a “Concester”.
Dawkins explores the nerve connections between bill and brain and speculates that the platypus visualizes the feedback from its bill just as we do the feedback from our eyes.Dawkins’ tale of the sea squirt shows the tongue and cheek that is sprinkled through his writing.
Some scale insect females carry their males as mere specs on their legs.Dawkins explores the beginning of life.
It matters not one bit that it's a summary and synthesis of others' primary work: great scientists have always been able to look out across their field of expertise and write a defining work of value for both scientists and the educated public.My only, slight, quibble with the book is that in the decade since it was published there has been significant change in many parts of the "tree of life." More species have been discovered, more fossils found.
I read a couple of reviews that people found it boring once it got to a certain point because there's 'too much detail' about things like bacteria.
Which I think is more of a 'your mileage may vary' attitude than anything -- I think Dawkins gave the space to the bacteria that they deserve, all things considered.There's a lot of speculation in here, too -- but so much of science is speculation.
You don't have to have a huge knowledge of science or maths to understand -- some, and an interest in it, I suppose, but not so very very much.
Dawkins tale is modeled after Canterbury Tales, and is about pilgrims on their way to a common destination, in this case the beginning of life.
Each group of species marches back in time rendezvousing where they share their most recent common ancestor, what Dawkins calls a “Concester”.
The first rendezvous is six million years ago (6 Ma) where we, our Homo and Australopithecine ancestors share a Concestor with the chimpanzees, bonobos and their ancestors.
With each species rendezvous, a fractal diagram portrays the branching, along with dates and contour lines; what a fabulous visual portrayal of the concept of evolution!
This is my favorite book in the whole world.
Someday it may be eclipsed by something else but for now it's this.
What I love most about this book is the number of times I found myself thinking, "Wow, I had no idea".
It makes perfect sense when you think it out, but the entire premise of the book, that every living thing on earth, from human being to plant to bacteria, shares a common ancestor, that actually existed at a point sufficiently far enough in the past.
The book consists of a "pilgrimage" to that ancestor modeled loosely after "The Canterbury Tales".
I've been a fan of Dawkins for a while solely based on interviews, but this is the first of his books I've actually read.
It works its way backwards through the evolutionary tree, detailing how all living things are related - how a stranger on the street, your dog, your house plant, bacteria and you are all distant cousins.
It's a fascinating read, technical enough if you're interested, but not so much so that it's threatening to the non-science minded.
It's broken into various "tales" - "The Howler Monkey's Tale", "The Hippo's Tale", "The Blind Cave Fish's Tale" - a la Chaucer - which makes the size of the book a bit less daunting.
The Ancestor's Tale is an incredible find! With a form based loosely on Chaucer's Canterbury Tales, Dawkins marches back in time to each of humankind's ancestors. Witty, brilliant and engaging, you will learn a great deal about evolutionary biology, and a million fun and intriguing facts. Whether you agree to disagree with the facts establishing evolution as a law of science, this book is worth your time. Plus, it is so dense and rich, you will feel proud to put it on your shelf after you have finished it!!
Charming and packed with detail. Dawkins' eloquence and passion for his subject is a real treat to enjoy.
After the dinosaurs died off they re-emerged and re-gained the ability to see color which they'd retained in their genes, but this ability has been "re-enabled" in many independent ways.>>The Lungfish's Tale explains how we likely emerged from the water for the first time, and explores various fish today that "walk" on land for short periods.
This chapter takes a fairly complex concept and makes it understandable.>>The Lamprey's Tale tells about how different their haemoglobin genes (for carrying oxygen in the blood) are from ours.
It's a shame that some people get caught up in Mr. Dawkins as a supposed spokesman for Atheism because first and foremost, he's a scientist, and this book is about the science behind life on Earth.
They have bare skin all over, except on the top of the head, under the arms and in the pubic region.
Why, if losing hair is such a good idea, have other mammals who also suffer from ectoparasites kept theirs?" (And why is it still retained on our heads, etc...?)I won't give away the answers, but the analysis is thoughtful and persuasive.
A great book. Also full of fun, amazing trivia about the mind-blowing diversity of life as well as the easily over looked fundamental links and commonalities between huge classifications of organisms. I learned from books like this that the full implications of the scale of universal time and space, as well as the far more finite scale of earthly life and development, and the implications of evolution are still only scarcely and slowly seeping into our consciousness and our view of ourselves and the world.
Dawkins' magnum opus.
This book is indeed about evolution and animals which is Dawkins' expertise, yet all the other science and theories he explains like the central dogma of molecular biology or the evolution of eucaryotic cells should already be pretty familar to such readers.Last warning: Especially in the second half of the book I found his ideas and writing to be lengthy - the length of the book no longer feflt justified.
This is just a thing to keep in mind.Recommended to readers who are interested in the evolution of biodiversity and who have not read many other pop-science books about evolution, molecular biology, Earth history and archaelogy.
There are a few exceptions to this, though, like "The Beaver's Tale" or "The Brine Shrimp's Tale." Those actually address the qualities of the animal in question, and were some of my favorites because of it.One of the best things about this book is that Dawkins freely admits -- early and often -- that a lot of what he's talking about is based on limited data and/or guesswork and may be wrong.
I definitely know a little bit about a LOT of things now, and it made me want to read more about evolution.Three stars for the book and the information it provides, and FIVE stars for me for making it through.
This book takes us on a journey from our most recent ancestors backwards to meet shared ancestors (or concestors as the author describes them) along the way, a la The Canterbury Tales, with the ultimate goal being the beginnings of life itself.
In some ways these are both the best and the worst parts of the book, as this is where the authors writing style flourishes the most.
This leaves little room for the rest of the species, with only insects taking up a large section in the rest of the book.
The approach is indeed original as, reading this book is like boarding a time machine where at each chapter we meet one of our ancestors -that Dawkins describes, showing in which ways its anatomy or way of life can serve a better understanding of why we are what we are.
The topic is indeed so vast that, some chapters are obviously more captivating than others, making it an hard and challenging read during the passages dealing with those ancestors that don't interest you that much.
Yet, always a great populariser Dawkins delivers here one of the most thoughtful and complete story of life on Earth.
The Ancestor's Tale is a cleverly structured book in which Dawkins takes the reader on a journey chronologically back in time through our evolutionary history.
The book cleverly mimics Chaucer's Canterbury Tales wherein each new member of the group tells a story.
The story is always about some aspect of evolution that is pertinent in some way to the species telling the tale.
The Ancestor's Tale is the best book that I have read on evolution up to this point and I would highly recommend it to anyone interested in this subject.
After Cosmos and The Selfish Gene, this is the only book that has simply blown my mind. What a brilliant work! Dawkins guides us along on the greatest pilgrimage ever to the dawn of evolution in a style reminiscent of The Canterbury Tales. Through different tales told by organisms we rendezvous along the way, he manages to introduce a plethora of biological wonders, ethical considerations, scientific thinking and philosophy. A must, must read for everyone- especially those with a passion for nature and life sciences.
