https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/589608.Flower_Fairies_of_the_Autumn
I have loved Cicely Mary Barker since my mom first bought my sisters and I a set of "Flower Fairies" books when we were little.
Barker paints flowers, shrubs, trees and fruit, and creates a fairy that represents each, along with a corresponding poem (which gives the reader information about that particular species).
"Flower Fairies of the Autumn" is my favorite of her books, probably because it is also my favorite time of the year.To this day I still buy my sister Kelly a "Flower Fairies" ornament for her Christmas tree...It's a fun tradition I love to share with my family!
By the age of 37 most people have out grown their love of fairies. Not me. I have loved the works of Cicely Mary Barker for as long as I can remember and that is never going to change. The illustrations are absolutely delightful and the poems that accompany them are sweet and quite informative. I learnt quite abit about flowers and plants when I was little from these books. These books are an oasis of loveliness in what can be a harsh world at times. Read these books, look at the pictures and escape.....
Loved the poems and loved all the things I learned about nature in autumn. Super illustrations, too!!
This is a sweet book of lyrical poems. Each page has a short poem and a picture of a fairy with the flower highlighted by the poem. The rhyming lines and the simple words make this a great book to read with children. The illustrations are gorgeous and we learned a little more about different flowers, too. We really enjoyed reading the poems together. We've also read Flower Fairies of the Spring and Flower Fairies of the Summer and will likely complete the turn of seasons by reading Flower Fairies of the Winter later this year.
This book, along with the other Flower Fairies books, were childhood favorites. Sadly I only vaguely remember the poems since it has been years since I picked up the books, but I do remember the artwork. Autumn is and was my favorite time of the year and these adorable and detailed fairies capture the whimsical feel and beautiful colors of the season of change. I think I am going to have to revisit my childhood and add these to my collection for the sake of nostalgia if nothing else.
Love this little book it is so sweet. I am envious of people who can draw. I wish I could draw beautiful pictures and then write about them :)
Wonderful, whimsical world of Cicely Mary Barker.
Another where the pictures get five stars - it's so easy to forget that there are words too!
I finally found this one in my basement! I've always adored Barker's poetry and this one was no different. Among the fairies I enjoyed reading the most were; Blackberry, Nightshade, Rose Hip, and White Bryony. They all had such stunning imagery. And the art work was just as captivating. I expected no less of this author.
As always the poems in these books are cute and whimsical and the drawings are absolutely stunning. They fit the season perfectly, and I'm keeping my winter book to read once it's a bit colder and more wintery. I feel like reading these poems in the appropriate season makes me appreciate them even more!
I've always loved these books. The art is lovely, the poems are clever and the fairies... do exist!? 😉
Beautifully nostalgic and a timeless treasure for the “child within”
I used to love these books as a child.
Great poems and illustrations that take readers into the life of fairies. I think this is a good book to have in hardcover and paperback because of the illustrations.
On each page is a short poem about a particular kind of flower and the fairies that are known to inhabit it.
The poems gently instruct children which of the ripe autumn berries and nuts are safe to eat—and which to avoid.This lovely volume’s pages are petite, a suitable format for youngsters, and appropriate to the diminutive size of the flower fairies themselves.
Some of the autumnal favorites described are oak, rosehip, beechnut, crabapple, and hawthorn fairies, plus the naughty but tempting nightshade fairy.Both adults and children who enjoy short illustrated poems about nature and its seasonal changes will like this book.
My mother gave this book to me, when I was young. She got it for her birthday, when she was young, as well, so it has passed on for several generations.This collection of poems written by Cicely Mary Barker is extremely beautiful. Yet simple, but still powerful for one's childish mind. One of the poems ("The Song of the Blackberry Fairy") inspired me to do a song about it. I love when literature can inspire you to other kinds of art!Blog ~ Facebook ~ Instagram ~ Youtube ~ Spotify ~
It contains little poems and drawings of fairies associated with particular flowers.
There are nineteen fairies in this book.
There's also an introductory poem with a black-and-white drawing.
All the other fairy drawings are in color.As with the other books, there are some notes added to some of the poems, particularly noting any of the fruits that are poisonous.The book flap notes that Cicely Mary Barker, the woman who did the drawings, did not have formal artistic training, yet you'd never know that from looking at the beautiful drawings she did.The books are considered “classics of children's literature.”
This was a book that was given to me by my sister for our monthly book club.
And for such a small book it is a beautiful work both with its simplistic poetry and its beautiful artwork.
The artist introduces you into the world of plants during the autumn season with a detailed yet whimsical picture of the plant with its fairy during that time of the season and a little poem to match.
The poem itself isn't just some frivolous words together but simple verses that also contribute to your education of the plant itself.
Love it and will be working to collect the series....
These sweet little poems were a delight to me when I was younger, as when I stayed over at my grand-parent's house, my nan (who passed away when I was 8) used to read one poem to me from the collection, each night before I went to bed.I like the Autumn series, mainly because Autumn is my favourite season. I loved the illustrations, and the fairies that wore little acorns as hats. I just wished that Barker would have considered doing a story. The poems were beautiful, but a story conbining the fairies would have been magical!
It's funny how little things like this stay with you. I covered my room in Flower Fairy photos when I was younger, and memorised the poems. I thoroughly believed fairies existed, and (though in a different way) I still do. This book (and the others of the Flower Fairy series) gave me a bunch of memories and a new way of looking at things - it really helped with my imagination and seeing the world and nature as much more magical as a child, which I think is really important!
I've had these books forever - must have been given them as a child and they have remained a firm favourite. Another great little collection of poems and illustrations, this time featuring plants and flowers of Autumn. My favourite poem has to be 'Blackberry', while I loved the picture for 'Hazel-nut'.
In a world the often pushes us all to be the same, Cicely Mary Barker celebrate our uniqueness. And I think God does too. While the world often touts this or that as ideal, Cecely Mary Barker is able to see the wondrous good the vast diversity around her. And I think God does too. May we do the same <3
Palm-sized, gorgeous illustrations, a delightful little addition to your library! As a child I was always imagining tiny people in the woods, drinking dew from acorn caps. This book takes me back to childhood, which I don't think I've ever outgrown. A very pretty book!
The illustrations are lovely and I love the flower information but the poetry does not captivate our imagination. Too bad. Such a sweet book otherwise. (same review for Flower Fairies of the Countryside).
Absolutely stunning illustrations and peppery poetics. This book is great fun and I found it provocative to my senses as an adult, as I believe it would have been for me if I was exposed to it as a child.
Love the illustrations so much. A family member gave the books to me when I was little and I grew up flicking through the pages and attempting draw my own fairies. Best childhood. The poetry didn't thrill me, though.
Possibly the cutest guide on autumn flowers. I'd buy them just to learn about the different plants. It even includes italicized comments when a berry is thought to be poisonous.
I have always loved these books, hopefully having read this to my 2 year old daughter she will love them too.
I picked this up at my local library's annual book sale. It's very charming and I honestly wish that I had these books as a kid. I'm sure I would have loved them.
Lovely little book full of Autumn Fairies. Was attracted to it by the cut-out front cover of this edition. Beautiful illustrations to go with each poem about each different fairy.
