https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/121173.The_Far_Side
To begin with, if you don’t know what “The Far Side” is, then your life is going to improve a bit from having experienced it, unless you have absolutely no sense of humor at all, in which case you probably won’t like it.
So while none of my favorites for “The Far Side” series is included in this particular collection, there are some very good ones here.
You learn what happened to unicorns, how the wife of a werewolf feels in her old age, and a bit about Santa’s relationship with his reindeers, just to allude to a few of the strips included.
15th book read in 2018.Number 328 out of 675 on my all time book list.Very funny, but some jokes where dated or not funny.
A closed door.
A talking parrot perched in a cage next to the door, squawks, "Knock knock!
Knock knock."This is the twisted genius of Larson.
If I'd been able to take notes I would have shared more of these gems with you.Needless to say, this is my kind of humor, so much so that when my friend Tom, who was also in the store perusing the books with me, told me he liked Larson's humor because it was "sick" I looked at him quizzically.
Sick, hmmm, I never thought of it that way.
The Far Side and Calvin and Hobbes hold up amazingly well! Came across my old Far Side books and am going through them, C&H next up, after grades are in.
Far Side is the best strip ever created. puts our world to shame.
1984 Jan 012012 July 21After the long slog through the ghost stories, I wanted something quick and zippy and fun. So I snagged a whole slew of Far Side books at the library, confident that not only would I read them, so would the kids. And so it came to pass: Veronica and I reading books side-by-side and sharing selected cartoons with one another. And Tash ran off with another volume at bedtime. Even at his worst Larson amuses me no end.Library copy.
Things just aren't funny like the farside. Supposed to be a parody, and it does make me laugh but I see some valid truths in these pages as well. reminds me of the adages "it's important to learn to laugh at yourself, don' take life too seriously"
The first in a series of The Far Side books...granted not every cartoon is excellent but so many are that I think this book deserves 5 stars. I love Larson's drawing style and brilliant and hilarious observations so neatly captured in one sentence or two.
This is a terrible book. A lone page or even a long paragraph of the MacQuarie dictionary has more literal content. Now the drawings however, are superb artistry. But we follow a code here, read not illustrations.
Larson's humor is fantastic here.
If you hand this book to someone and within seconds of opening it, they are laughing out loud, how can it not be 5* Case closed.
I am not sure if I am outgrowing THE FAR SIDE or if these early cartoons are not as great as Larson's later work. I'll have to keep reading to find out.
Classic
2.5 Stars
I fell in love with this daily comic the first time I read it.
I remember grabbing the paper, flipping to the funny papers, and looking for my two favorite comic strips; The Far Side and Calvin and Hobbes.
Back in my old college days, I used to cut out these comic strips and tape them to the outside of my notebooks so I had something funny to read if the lecture turned out to be really boring.
This comic strip got me through some hard times.
So, if you like wacky and funny observances of human nature, you will love reading The Far Side.
I pretty much read this book from beginning to end in one sitting.
I've been reading The Far Side since I was a child.
I remember sitting at the dining room table for breakfast, eating a bowl of cereal, and reading The Far Side.
My family kept a stack of them on a bookshelf, along with the Calvin and Hobbes books.
Good memories.
I still, to this day, laugh at all the innuendos and jokes.
Being an adult gives me an advantage with The Far Side.
Some of the panels I just couldn't understand as a child.
Overall, this book was so much fun to read.
As always, Gary Larson delivers. The Far Side is funny, provocative, and insightful, like all of Larson's books. Unfortunately, as with most comics strips, it's either all or nothing, love it or hate it. If you like Larson, then you are guaranteed to love this book. If you don't care for Larson...why are you here?
Maybe because it was made back in early eighties. Or perhaps because I'm not an American. Sometimes it took me minutes before I really "got it". (Especially about the man in the witness stand, involving a banjo, kitchen and Dinah. I wouldn't get it if I didn't know the song!!!) And there were times when I failed to get it. Have to admit some did make me chuckle.
I am very glad I finally got around to reading Gary Larson's The Far Side comics. It's very clear to see why they have been so popular for so long. Larson's use of a single panel is ingenious, as he manages to juxtapose a movement from past to future in a single image. On top of that it's all very funny, of course. Recommended.
I remember being introduced to the Far Side by a very good friend after a heavy session of serious alcohol...I know that it's nothing to be proud of [but it felt good at the time], yet I have often wondered if my state of alcohol-induced giggles was entirely down to the Far Side...ANSWER = IT WAS....The books are still outstandingly funny.
I had forgotten how much fun these cartoons were to read. Revisiting them now, as an adult, I can appreciate the sometimes subtle political elements on a deeper level. I also wonder how these would be read and appreciated by younger people. I think my nephews are going to get copies of some of these classics soon.
Various of Gary Larson's gag cartoons from the early days of the Far Side's run. It's not as good as later material but definitely a potent read - the weird, outlandish humor is there. A good starting point for getting into the crazy universe of the Far Side.
I love Far Side cartoons. I sat down and read this one cover to cover because I was thinking on working on my students' visual literacy by using cartoons, but I never got around to it. Still, reading cartoons is always fun and I'm planning on reading my other two Far Side books sometimes soon.
When I was growing up I would of course read the comics and I loved the far side for its weird humor. I bought this book for my dad and at some point permanently borrowed it. The comics still amuse me, maybe even more so now that I get more of the older humor.
A collection of comics by Gary Larson, most from the comic papers. Very off-the-wall humor, usually involving nature in some way or people doing stupid thingsMy husband loves this guy, so he got the whole set. I'll be laughing my way through them.
I registered a book at BookCrossing.com!http://www.BookCrossing.com/journal/13722663
Gary Larson is really a Genius
Still some of the best comics ever made. Ever.
Gary Larson always makes me chuckle. His view of the world is truly unique.
Funny!
