https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/31487.Unweaving_the_Rainbow
Dawkins does a fine job of explaining complex ideas clearly and well.That's what was good about Unweaving the Rainbow.Sadly, what feels like way more than half of the book was spent painstakingly trying to argue people out of believing in astrology, ghosts, remote viewing, etc.
I think believers would be the first to point out that this sort of thing is beyond the purview of science.)2) Dawkins assumes that these "deluded" people are reading his book.
His aggressive, dismissive and disrespectful approach has only put people on the defensive and set an unfortunate example.I was hoping for a lot more "wonder of science".
The first half or so was amazing, and the rest was still really interesting (especially the end), if not quite as exhilarating. At the same time, you have to remember that even that powerhouse of scientific poetry, Carl Sagan, had some dry chapters every now and then. Some dryness definitely doesn't make it any less worth the read, and its mild anyway. Overall, this book was extremely enjoyable, and a breeze to get through. 4.5 stars, will probably be 5 on the reread.
Dar chiar și când aflăm modul cum funcționează fenomenele din jurul nostru, chiar și cele care ne inspiră frumusețe și venerație precum curcubeul și stelele sau mintea umană, răspunsurile științei nu distrug lirismul, ci ele inspiră la fel de multă mirare și sublim ca în fața oricărei opere de artă.
Si totusi, in acelasi timp, este ca si cum acel bob unic de nisip a fost pulverizat intr-o mie de milioane de milioane de milioane de fragmente, pentru ca acesta e numarul aproximativ de stele din univers.
Written a few years prior to The God Delusion, this book serves as a useful bridge for anyone familiar with Dawkins's atheist output but unfamiliar with his more scientific titles.
Well he may not be cuddly, and I may not agree with his approach to everything, but for the most part I find him genial, honorable and good-natured, and this book - essentially a non-religious celebration of life and the scientific method - displays his warmth and humanity in bucketloads as it reveals how a greater understanding of science enlarges - rather than diminishes - our sense of wonder.
But when he wasn't losing me in a web of convoluted explanation, he was was looking down his nose at me like a curmudgeonly professor who is inordinately piqued that an average undergraduate had the audacity to drop by during office hours and ask a stupid question.That said, I learned a lot and, while I did not become a convert to his thesis that science can be as beautiful as poetry, I will admit that, were my brain more suited to the beauty of, say, probability, I would have been in ecstasy while perusing the pages of this tome.
As a person unlearned--well, okay, let's be honest, frankly ignorant--in science, I enjoyed this wide-ranging book.
Dawkins largely achieves his aim: to show that an understanding of the science of phenomena can create a sense of wonder equal to mythic or poetic metaphor, with a concomitant gain in understanding and an increased desire to know still more and to look askance at delusions that are unsupportable in light of what we know and continue to learn.
The part on bad science metaphors is not as interesting as the rest and serves simply as an attack on a view of evolution on which he disagrees.
Dawkins no perdona a nadie , me encanta !!
One page you are reading a very important theory and in the next paragraph he goes on telling you about a trivial thing that has happened to him the day before.
Sometimes pages and pages are spent trying to explain something not important, and then when the important thing comes, Dawkins treats it as "already explained" and leave it as that.Other thing he loves to do, and it's just plain bad writing, is comparing things one with another.
I.e., comparing the human brain to a computer.
Pues este libro nos demuestra que la ciencia hace de todo menos eso.En nuestro pasado, en nuestros genes, y en nuestra mente se esconden las respuestas a preguntas tan básicas como: ¿De dónde venimos?, ¿Cómo evolucionamos?
¿Cómo surgió la vida (no… no fue en 7 días) Y Dawkins explica punto por punto aquella información que no siempre es fácil encontrar, demostrando lo maravilloso que es estar informado, y te anima a seguir buscando más; por qué la ciencia nunca se detiene, siempre hay nuevos misterios que resolver.¿Nunca han leído libros de divulgación científica?
Un libro acerca de la capacidad que tiene la ciencia para maravillarnos con la realidad. Aprendí cómo funciona el modelo que nos fabrica el cerebro acerca de la realidad, y otras cosas interesantes. No dice cosas tan distintas a sus otros libros, pero escribe siempre con tanta rigurosidad e inteligencia
As a person of religion myself (Christian, mostly Protestant), I found that this read closed the gaps to which I'd relegated my God--and caused me to question whether I'd built a faith paradigm that was dependent on and argued from a point of ignorance (how-else-do-you-explain...).* Over all, this was a superbly written text, and I'm thankful for every bit of it.A few notes on reading Dawkins: He is a great philsopher, but arguably an even better rhetorician.
Zwar hat sich der eloquente Engländer inzwischen einen Namen in Sachen Religionskritik gemacht (vermutlich ist er DER Paradeatheist); dieser Umstand alleine macht ihn aber, trotz aller Kontroversen, noch nicht interessant genug um sich als Laie durch dieses Buch zu quälen.Nicht falsch verstehen - an und für sich ist es sicherlich interessant.
Mit anderen Worten: Er lässt in diesem Buch so sehr den Gebildeten raushängen, dass es einem schon zum Halse heraushängt.Und dann wäre da allgemein seine Neigung nur die Phantasielosigkeit als phantastisch darzustellen.
I would love to praise Unweaving the Rainbow Science, Delusion and the Appetite for Wonder as a layman's introduction to the wonders of science. The premise of the book is that the scientific view is not the bleak and cold perspective that it has a reputation for. In support of this, the book is chock full of little tidbits that demonstrate the beauty, the elegance, the chaos and the awe-inspiring complexity of the world around us. Dawkins endeavors to make science real to us, to seduce us with
then in the next paragraph, have the audacity to call people who have made these entirely reasonable mistakes idiots or charlatans!Excepting perhaps the small choir of skeptics that Dawkins is preaching to, we all know someone who holds a scientifically unsound belief.
It is a tragic irony that this is what leaves people with a bad taste in their mouth, leading to the very anti-science sentiments that Dawkins is trying to prevent.I wish I could recommend this book to friends.
Dawkins makes a strong case for those of us who believe that scientific literacy not only does not have to come at the price of aesthetic appreciation, but can actually enhance it.
I believe only a minority of people can tolerate the anxiety that comes from confronting their smallness in the universe, a universe that if it is ruled by a deity does not apparently need to be (as Stephen Hawkings so aptly illustrated in a Brief History of Time).
On the one hand I agree with him wholeheartedly that science and a scientific understanding of natural phenomena is a source of wonder.
To think of the rainbow in terms of water drops and light waves evokes one sort of beauty.
But to think of the rainbow in terms of mythology, as something mysteriously wonderful, evokes quite another, one that is infinitely more suited to literature.
Dawkins argues that literature would be much greater if it approached the rainbow in terms of its literal truth.
Dawkins takes his title from John Keats, who decried Isaac Newton's explanation of light as "unweaving the rainbow." Far from robbing the wonderment of light by revealing some of its mysteries, Dawkins maintains that the greater understanding can only increase one's sense of wonder at a commonplace phenomenon, that we have, indeed, become immune to the wonder of the commonplace by not looking too deeply into it.
Starting from Newton's discoveries on the nature of light, Dawkins works his way through spectroscopy, the anatomy of the eye, color, on to the electromagnetic spectrum, and DNA.
Finally, he discusses evolution and the nature of consciousness.
After reading _The_God_Delusion_ I was left with a sense of wonder about science, reason, and a need for clarity of the meaning of life.
Nevertheless _Unweaving_the_Rainbow_ has elegantly shown that this world, with all its beauty and wonder, is meaning enough to satisfy the insatiable thirst for knowledge and understanding that someone with the desire for the meaning of life possesses.
He has shown that there is much we do not know about our universe, but we are working on it; and combining good poetry with science, we may have a deeper understand of our surroundings and ourselves.There may not be a universal meaning of life (if fact life is a simulation in of itself), but the infinite loop of discovery-learning-understanding-new discoveries can provide a great stand-in.This was an excellent book and highly recommended.
(1998), Richard Dawkins.
***1/2.Here is another good book from Dawkins, though this one tends to be more contemplative than most of his works.
He manages to look into the world of science and explain its workings in such a way that the average reader can pick up on them.
He backs up his approach in this book with suitable quotations from his favorite poems.
In the process, we are reminded of how many poems we used to know, too.
You can’t go wrong when faced with a new book by this acclaimed scientist.
Dawkins appelliert an das Bestaunenswerte der Naturwissenschaften und dass Künstler diesem Aspekt mehr Aufmerksamkeit zollen sollten als einer irrealen Phantastik.
Das ist an vielen Stellen richtig, aber oft liegt Dawkins auch ein wenig daneben.
Auch hat die Geschichte immer wieder gezeigt, dass Erkenntnisse oft über den Haufen geworfen werden müssen.
Dawkins wirft außerdem literarisch Dinge in einen Topf, die nicht zusammengehören: Geschichten nach Tolkienscher Art werden einfach mal der Science Fiction zugeordnet, um dann festzustellen, dass es schlechte Science Fiction ist, da zu phantastisch.
Mag wohl daran liegen, dass das Genre Phantastik hier treffender wäre.
It has good parts and bad parts. The beginning half was more interesting with how things work like Dopler shift and DNA fingerprinting. Dawkins tends to go on rants which is great in that he is unapologetic on his views but I feel, in doing so, he might lose some of the audience he is trying to gain (those who are uncertain why science is good). Still, an interesting read, overall.
Pretty good all things considered. I'm not overly into poetry but it's a nice addition to the book. It's a few years old so some of the information needs updating and expanding and if you know your science or have done a lot of science reading then the text is rehashing information. Still, his writing is good, as per usual, and I do like a good Dawkins book.
Probably my favorite so far. Dawkins has a gift for helping the layman understand scientific principles. This book convinced me that reasoning like a scientist could be helpful to anyone.
Not as consistently good as his other books, but some real gems in here around how we interpret light and sound.
An excellent book
Auch dass die Meinung von Geistes- oder Sozialwissenschaftlern in öffentlichen Diskussionen eher anerkannt und wertgeschätzt wird als die von Naturwissenschaftlern und das sogar bei naturwissenschaftlichen Themen (Stichwort Grüne Gentechnik, Landwirtschaft etc.).Er erwähnt auch sehr treffend, dass Naturwissenschaften von manchen Pseudo-Feministinnen als "männlich" und "kalt" bezeichnet werden und Intuition und Glaube als weiblich, was der Selbstbestimmung von Frauen eher schadet als hilft.Was mich gestört hat, waren die ständigen Seitenhiebe in Richtung Religion, Mythologie oder auch Phantastik.
Mythologie und Phantastik werden von Dawkins ebenfalls diffamiert, was ich etwas übertrieben finde.
Ich finde Mythologie faszinierend, auch aus wissenschaftlicher Sicht und bin ein großer Fantasy-Fan, trotz (oder vielleicht auch gerade wegen) naturwissenschaftlichem Studium.

In the third quarter of the book, it felt like the ambition to show the real beauty and provide poetic examples lost confidence.
The first several chapters, especially Barcodes in the Stars, were my favorite.
I am always most easily enchanted by the poetic possibilities of the universe, in part because of the incredible distances being covered.
After further discussion on genes with David, some of the chapters became more clear.
I should have revisited some Khan Academy sections on genes before diving into this, but it was still a good science read.
I think the kindest thing I can say it that it was a mixed bag.
I think he uses the phrase "tiresome pedant" and even though he has written some great stuff, parts of this one were brutal and he comes across as a tiresome pedant.
Part of it is simply taste - I don't care about arguments one should use with those who believe in pseudo-science and I am not worried that if someone watches The X-Files that they will abandon scientific thought (hint: fiction and non-fiction are not the same thing).
Some other parts were just tedious- either overdone or rehashes of things he covered better elsewhere.
Why search for link between scientific evidence and poetry ?
Poetry is not going to persuade anybody about scientific facts.
The person who doubts relentless efforts of scientists to discover truth about life and universe because it is not poetic is an idiot.
Therefore the facts will not be pretty enough to put on the wall or read out loud in Hide park.
And in my opinion is highly overrated.I have read many books written by Mr. Dawkins and every single one I liked except for this one.
Book itself is not bad and there is a lot of interesting stuff mentioned here as well.
A very informative book, with good quotes and poems chosen to back up points. The second half of the book was a lot more difficult to read, I found. I enjoyed reading about physics and the history of science, though the later chapters on genetics, the selfish cooperator and self-feeding co-evolution proved challenging to keep up with at times. Not that it was any less interesting, but required me to take my time reading or to reread parts to fully grasp the arguments presented.
