https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/440601.Gobbolino_The_Witch_s_Cat
This book has a bright orange cover that caught my eye and was about a cat with the most amazing name. So I bought it and started to read it in the evenings during my London holiday. Gobbolino is such a cute little thing that every setback in his adventure to find a kitchen was really sad and you wished him all the best. I am sure I would read this story again some time. Mainly because it is easy, short and funny.
All he wants is to be a kitchen cat, but Gobbolino has many adventures in his journey before he finds the place where he belongs.
I like the circular nature of the tale, as Gobbolino begins his journey with the river and ends at the river.
I wanted to reach into the pictures and pet Gobbolino myself!
I read this one aloud to my cats, who all sat on the bed with me, rapt with attention, and, in the end, gave it a unanimous paws up.
הספר הזה הוא ברובו חמוד מאוד ואפילו נוגע ללב, ונראה שהוא מדבר על נושא של שונות ו"האחר הוא אני" וכל זה, אבל אז מגיעים לסוף שיש לו מסר ממש ממש בעייתי בעיניי, מסר הפוך לחלוטין למה שאמור להיות הנושא המרכזי של הספר (לא ארחיב כדי לא לעשות ספויילר). זה ממש אירוני בעיניי שהספר הוא חלק ממצעד הספרים של משרד החינוך (הבן שלי קורא אותו במסגרת יומן קריאה שהוא צריך לעשות). אומר משהו על מערכת החינוך שלנו.
Poor little Gobbolino! A witch's kitten who wants to be good and be a nice family's kitchen cat, but never quite gets it right. This is a lovely little kid's book about fitting in and being who you want to be. I'd give Gobbolino a home any day, even if he is the most naive cat ever!
Classic author, classic tale of a magic cat trying to find his placeBorn to a witch's cat, Gobbolino wants nothing more than to find a home amongst the warmth and bustle of a kitchen.
With lots of fairly short episodes, it will make a good bedtime series for several nights, and even lead to discussions about differing beliefs, about witches and treating others with kindness.The story may be 75 years old now, but the style shouldn't put off readers/listeners, the language is readable and moves along nicely.
Gobbolino and his magic bring a quirkiness of their own to the story.
I can recall little about this story, read around the age of 7, except that it was a fun read. I was a voracious reader then as now and books raced through my brain like water to the thirsty. Sadly have little excuse to re-read with no grandchildren on the horizon yet but hey, who needed an excuse ? Ursula Moray Williams no doubt inspired many of our more well known children's authors to write about cats and magic etc etc. One could easily draw a line from Gobbolino to The Worst Witch to Harry Potter etc.
This was a favourite of mine as a kid. I think I tried reading this to Fred once but she wasn't interested. Una however loved it and summed up the plot to Martin "It's about a cat and he just wants to be a kitchen cat but it isn't fair because nobody understands him." A great deal of the dramatic tension of the book filters through "unfairness" which particularly resonates in a 7 year old's heart and perhaps as second-borns we could both relate to the idea of being the one who can't conform to the dominant family paradigm.
Maybe if I had read this as a child I would have liked it more.
Maybe.
Coming to it at the age I am now, I found it repetitive and rather exasperating--the cat does nothing but cry all the time.
All his troubles are blamed on his birth: "Why oh why was I born a witches' cat?" It's very revealing that in all those weeks and months--Gobbolino never grows up.
I've owned kittens, they grow very fast, and his sister certainly becomes an adult cat in the same time, but Gobbolino remains stunted, kittenish--immature.
Lovely children's book suitable for early readers and of course for read-aloud. This little kitten, born to a witch's cat, never quite "gets it". He doesn't want to be a witch's cat, but fate has dealt him a hand he can't quite shake off, whatever he tries. and he just wants to be an ordinary kitchen cat, with a warm place by the fire and a family to love him that he can love back. Each adventures sees him on the road again when things go wrong - so will he ever find his dream? What do you think?!
اشتريت الكتاب لغلافه فقط صراحة، ولم أندم لذلك! أُحب قصص الأطفال مجملاً وأستمتع كثيراً بقراءة المقدمة النقدية التي توضع على النسخ الخاصة - كهذا- لقد تعرفت على قط ساحر صغير سيء الحظ، وعلى كاتبة مُلهمة ذات تشبيهات جميلة ()
Gobbolino... A character with so much humility.. Love this story book!!!
Sweet story about a witch’s cat who wants to be an ordinary kitchen cat, and all of his adventures on the journey to find a forever home. It’s a good read-aloud book and my kids couldn’t wait to find out where Gobbolino might end up next.
The story started on a dark and cloudy night, when Gobbolino found himself the odd one out amongst witch's kittens - he had one white paw, blue (not green) eyes, and a hint of tabby on his coat.
Along the way, his magic and kindness brought happiness to many, yet his own happiness never really lasted.Like many good children's tales, the story of Gobbolino will give younger readers cheers and make them wonder.
What made most of this story fun to read was the somewhere-inbetween-ness of Gobbolino, the kind-hearted witch's cat with blue eyes and one white paw.
The book begins with two kittens, born to a witch's cat.
One kitten, Scootica, is black with green eyes (as is traditional for a witch's cat) wants to follow in her mother's footsteps and become apprenticed to a witch.
He tries time and again to find a home, but the fact he was born as a witch's cat always follows him and spoils his chances.
My daughter (aged 6) got a little upset with the book a few times, as life is repeatedly harsh on Gobbolino, and though the ending was happy, it made her quite angry!
Here is my second book review and it’s about the adventures of a very cute and kind-hearted cat called Gobbolino.
The story revolves around Gobbolino’s adventures, but Gobbolino is no ordinary cat, he is a witch’s cat!
But in the end, after much wandering about and meeting all sorts of characters along the way, he loses his ability to perform magic and is finally accepted as a proper kitchen cat, and he can happily give lots of affection to his new owners.Gobbolino the Witch’s Cat is suited for children in Years 1, 2 and 3.
It took me about forty-five minutes to read, so not hard, but it was a good story.In Gobbolino The Witch's Cat, Gobbolino is born a witch's kitten.
When he leaves the coven for the first time with his sister Sootica, they discover that Gobbolino is not your average witch cat!
The witch promptly kicks Gobbolino out.
The story charts his life, as he tries to be a farmhouse cat, a kitchen cat, a mayor's cat, a sailor cat, a princess's cat, a woodcutters hat, and a peddler's cat, until he is returned to his birthplace by a poor witch.
It wasn't hard to read, but it was really well-written.
In this book, talking animals, witchs' curses and real dragons are a common thing.
I so wish the world shown in this book, where everybody loves cats (even though they can't stand witchs' cats) was real.
Being an animal lover(Previous cat owner & current birds owner) and a mother to many of my birds I can sometimes relate about my pets to Gobbolino because I have spent many years with them and can now understand them.
It is written perfectly from an animal's perspective.
The only thing that bugged me was Gobbolino's SUPER kind nature.
I loved it.
I loved it.
Michelle Harrison, the author of the 13 Treasures series, put the book to mind again when she got a new, special edition of it.
I dug out my original Young Puffin edition...
I hadn't remembered much about this book, other than the title: Gobbolino The Witch's Cat, and that I loved it.
After re-reading it now, I still love it.
It's a gloriously comforting read, and a true fable as Gobbolino, the cat with one white paw, sets out to discover who he really is as he really doesn't want to be a witch's cat, but how it seems, right up to the end that a witch's cat is what he is meant to be.

We read this (the kids and I) for Halloween. It reminded me of "Heidi" in that, pretty much everyone encountered is kind, and willing to help out a poor soul. And everything always works out to the good... almost impossibly. So, not terribly realistic, but not bad if you have children who scare easily. It was written in the old style which assumes children, and the parents who read to them, aren't terribly intelligent.
Flew through this one! I'm absolutely in love! Totally recommend this, just like Adventures of the Little Wooden Horse!
My son read this to me as his bedtime story having been recommended it by a relative. It is a charming, beautiful story. The language was perfect for extending a small child's vocabulary and, although long, the book was a perfect introduction to 'self' reading.
This book is amazing! I brought it in one week to school (at Infant School) and it then became a regular fixture to read Gobbolino because the teacher liked it so much!This book IS AMAZING. You have to admit.
i loved this book so much when i was a kid and now, having added it to my lists makes me want to go back and read it again! Its a really sweet and lovely story about trying to find your place in the world with some nice twists and ideas.
Extremely charming story of a witch's cat who just wants to be an ordinary kitchen cat, and has many adventures before finally getting his wish. This would be a charming family read-aloud if one had children under ten.
An excellent book, great read for all children and adults, I read this when i was 6 and have loved to read it often since. Such a great read.
Aww! I listened to this in audio and it was so cute!
Great book for kids! Gobbolino definitely stole my heart!
A childhood favorite that withstood the test of time. I read it again a couple of years ago and it's still good fun.
reay enjoyed book as i like cats and kittens was great storyline
