https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6642402-something-about-you
Ok, here comes a quick and short review (quite a feat for me!!) :P... BAM! BAM! BAM! (What does it remind you of?) WhaMA-WhaMA-WhaMA-WhaMA-WhaMA-WhaMA..... (C'mon readers!! You know the answer!!!!) Wheewammawamma-BAM! Wheewammawamma-BAM! (Ok, more clues? Here they come...)Smack! Smack!"Oh shit, I'm cooommmminnggg!"Yes! Oh yes! YES!You've finally got it right!! It's the WALLBANGER!!!!NO! NO! NO!!! Hold your horses, people! Unfortunately it's not him....Our wallbanger is.... BAM!!! SHOCKED???!!!!!
Thirty thousand hotel rooms in the city of Chicago, and Cameron Lynde managed to find one next door to a couple having a sex marathon!!!!
"...I was standing on the stairs when Jack first showed up at the door, and I saw the way you looked at him, Cam."Cameron threw her hands up in frustration.
"You know the Tom and Jerry cartoon where Tom hasn't eaten for days and he imagines Jerry looking like a ham?
5+ stars – Contemporary Romance/Romantic SuspenseThis is my first read by author Julie James, and I absolutely loved it!
Something About You has everything I enjoy in a contemporary romance/romantic suspense read.*Hot, brooding, gruff, protective alpha hero who’s former Army Special Forces, a Special Agent with the FBI, and drives a Triumph motorcycle?
– Check and YOWZA!*Strong, intelligent, yet genuine heroine?
– Check!*Witty, often laugh-out-loud, dialogue?
– Check!*Amusing, sexy repartee between the H/H?
– Check!*Perfect dose of suspense?
– Check!*Electric, magnetic chemistry and smokin’ hot sexual tension?
– Check!*Steamy love scenes?
– Check!Now I’m off to consume A Lot Like Love!
“My God, Jack-with a look like that, you two should just get a room. And try not to pick the one with a dead body next to it this time.”   That's right Julie James,you have reduced me into a gibbering incoherent mess!And that being said by a person whose job is to make valid,coherent arguments.Now every time I close my eyes,I picture Jack.freaking.Pallas.  “More like a chocolate molten lava cake. A dessert so sinful, so luscious, so filled with inner heat it made a girl want to lick each and e
That's right Julie James,you have reduced me into a gibbering incoherent mess!And that being said by a person whose job is to make valid,coherent arguments.Now every time I close my eyes,I picture Jack.freaking.Pallas.
I drooled.That's the ugly,embarassing truth.Whilst reading Something About You I.actually.drooled.And I thought my fangirl symptoms couldn't get any worse.*sighs*Let's take it from the start.Cameron Lynde is an Assistant U.S. Attorney who decides to give herself a treat and spend the weekend in a five star hotel,only to become witness to a murder involving a Senator.As if things weren't bad enough,the FBI investigation's leader is Jack Pallas,a man who holds a grudge against her for three years.When her testimony is the only thing that keeps the Senator out of jail,she has to constantly interract with said agent and the danger she faces brings them unexpectedly close.
This was pretty fun.
It started off with an intriguing murder-mystery, in which two characters that can’t stand each other are forced together.
My hopes were high for some hate sex.
But then you find out almost immediately who the killer is, and the rest of the book quickly descends into “OMG, WANT TO BONE.
CAN’T BONE BECAUSE CAN’T STAND.
OH WAIT, NO, THAT WAS JUST A MISCOMMUNICATION, LETS BONE” with a side of “Wait…wasn’t there a murder or something?” Oh, and sadly, there was no hate sex.
:(This review can also be found at The Book Eaters.
4.5 stars!  In all my years with the army and the FBI, there's only been one person I've ever had any problems controlling myself around."  Thank you Katerina for recommending this book! I have truly fallen in love with Jack Pallas. But maybe I shouldn't have started this book at 11pm. By the time I reached the climax (double entendre lol), it was 3 am. Not the best time to read about men hiding in your closet, let me tell you. My heart was beating so fast and I was so paranoid I had to turn on
Tall, dark, and glowering, FBI Special Agent Jack Pallas has no wish to get involved with Cameron, especially since he believes she's the reason he got shipped out from Chicago to Nebraska three years ago.
The culprit's identity is revealed somewhere in the middle of the book, but there's still a suspense factor because we don't know what he'll do once he finds out Cameron's the star witness.Jack freaking Pallas.
That's one of the things I loved about Practice Makes Perfect, and I'm glad I got to see that again in Something About You. She also writes strong female characters who excel in what they do.
Damn it, I want more Jack Pallas.
Another re-read. Yep, still a solid 4 stars. I wish she would write faster! Although she has a new one coming out soon. The two main characters have a past, and not a romantic past, at that. There was an attraction 3 years ago ... there still is. Jack is sexy, handsome, rugged! LOL. Everything I like in a hero. And he is a nice guy too. Cameron is beautiful, independent, strong... everything I like in a heroine. Who the fuck is this guy. I need to stalk him on Pinterest!! LOL. Thirty thousand ho
Although she has a new one coming out soon.
Solid reads every time.
An entire wall of Jack's living took was filled with books - hundreds of them - organized neatly on dark mahogany shelves.
Sigh, a man who reads!ORIGINAL REVIEW BELOW**************************************************Sometimes I am just in the mood for a nice, solid read of a good book with a good storyline, minimum sex and absolutely no BDSM or hidden agenda and stuff like that.
Julie James definitely delivers.
This was a re-read and was just as good the second time around.
Look forward to her new book coming out very soon.
The dialogue was smart, funny, and true to life.Then why not 5 stars?I really, really wanted to give this book 5 stars, but sadly, I just couldn’t.
My reason was that I couldn’t quite convince myself that Cameron is a warm or gentle or tenderhearted person.
Normally, I always admire strong heroines but I don’t know why it was so hard for me to warm up with her.
I couldn’t pretend that her lack of feminine charm didn’t matter because it did, and that bothered me a lot.However, this was a great romantic story with the perfect amount of suspense woven in, one of my engrossing reads.
So this book caught my attention the other day when I read this quote: >>>>   “More like a chocolate molten lava cake. A dessert so sinful, so luscious, so filled with inner heat it made a girl want to lick each and every crumb right off the plate. That was Jack Pallas.”  and I realized that I really needed to meet that man! Soooo, this became my random rainy Saturday read and I was not dissappointed! Here's how I see Jack to start us off:The book was a delightful, fun, lighthearted
Here's how I see Jack to start us off:The book was a delightful, fun, lighthearted read – a bit of a blend between murder mystery and romance..
That being said, I still didn’t want to put it down.Right from the beginning, it had me laughing… here are the opening lines of the book:  “Thirty thousand hotel rooms in the city of Chicago, and Cameron Lynde managed to find one next door to a couple having a sex marathon.“Yes!
*Because my laptop is extremely screwy right now at home, I have to pick and choose which books to write reviews about [for the time being].
I loved this book with all my heart and it was so so so sexy...I really want to come back and add a review for it next week if I have time, and if nothing else I'd like to post some quotes.
But, as it is, it's looking like just quotes.
For that, this book deserves all the stars.And, ya know, another sexy mother fucker named Jack had my heart beating so fast I thought it was going to implode.
Actually after reading this for the second time, I realized I loved it!
There is just snarky, witty, banter between the main characters, Cameron and Jack, and a fast, fun, and super-sexy plot.
Cameron ends up being the only potential witness in a high profile murder case with Jack Pallas, FBI agent, leading the investigation.
This is Cameron's worst nightmare because she has a less than friendly history with glowering, but hunky, Agent Hottie, Jack!
Purple Hair stopped dusting blush over Cameron's cheeks.
Haha!So, if you like romance, with a smart plot, do yourself a favor and pick this one up!
4 Stars!  Cameron, Assistant US Attorney and Jack, FBI Special Agent, had a major disagreement while working together on a case three years before. Some of it got to national television and because of that Jack was transferred to Nebraska. Now, after all this time, Cameron has to spend the night in a hotel and ends up being the key witness to an homicide next door. And since there’s a senator involved she ends up going to protective custody. Well, the detective responsible for the case is nothi
Cameron, Assistant US Attorney and Jack, FBI Special Agent, had a major disagreement while working together on a case three years before.
Some of it got to national television and because of that Jack was transferred to Nebraska.
Well, the detective responsible for the case is nothing more than Jack, who just got transferred back to Chicago and they both still have issues with the other.
I started to be completely hilarious and that just got lost with the book, and it was sad.
Except for that, the story was sweet with some pretty heated moments and it got me hooked since the beginning.
Julie James has a writing style that makes you feel like you are either living the heroine's life or are her best friend because she includes a lot of mundane and funny inner thought processes.Assistant U.S. Attorney Cameron Lynde and FBI agent Jack Pallas don't exactly have a good past after he embarrassed her on national television because she didn't bring an important case to trial.
There was a lot of sexual tension and fun interludes to enjoy, as the attraction between Jack and Cameron just had to explode sometime.I would recommend this book to anyone looking for a good, fast-paced contemporary romance.
If you happened to read my review of Practice Makes Perfect you will already know the kind of book that you can expect from Julie James.
You will also know if you read my other review that this book got a bit more graphic on the sex scenes.
This book had just the right amount of sexiness.I didn't enjoy this quite as much as I enjoyed Practice Makes Perfect.
What I've learned most from Julie James is that two people who hate each other are actually just looking for any excuse to have sex with one another.I'm going to read a couple of serious books (who am I kidding?
Glowering men4.
Motorcyle riding men8.
:DThis book was a perfect kick-off to Smut Monday.
I really enjoyed Cameron and Jack’s story, and let me just get this out of the way… They were HOT!
I loved the chemistry and witty banter between these two protags.
It was presented and resolved pretty quickly leaving room for the good stuff, which was their off the charts chemistry and slow building romance.All very well done and I can't wait to read the next book in this FBI series.
Nothing better to squash the Monday blues than a good dose of smut.
:DHappy Smut Monday!
Strangely enough, that didn't make reading the book boring and I actually had fun doing it - mostly because I liked the main characters (Jack, Cameron, his partner Wilkins, her friends Collin and Amy).
Jack's and Cameron's reminiscences about the past read like a recap sometimes, not the most exciting way to find out about a character's history.All things considered, this was a good read.
I didn't love it like many of my GR friends did, but it's still a book I wouldn't hesitate to recommend to anyone looking for a nice contemporary romance.
“Something About You” is a romantic suspense novel by Julie James and this book is definitely on the top of my favorite romance novels list as it is full of drama, action and hot, smoking romance that will send any romance fans' hearts aflutter!U.S. Attorney, Cameron Lynde, was spending the night at a luxurious hotel to relax when she notices that a crime scene had happened in room 1308, the room that Cameron was right next to and Cameron realizes that a prostitute named Mandy Lobard was murdered in room 1308 after she was making love to Senator Hodges!
I know she has legions of readers who love her stories, so that left me hopeful.I'm so glad I read this book!
Cameron is like so many of us — a real contemporary heroine.
Like Cameron, the story kept its sense of humor throughout, even while bringing us some heart-pounding moments.
James' background as an attorney gave a sense of authenticity to the heroine's work, as well as the professional side of her relationship with Jack.I absolutely loved the secondary characters, especially Collin, an openly gay man and one of Cameron's two best friends.
Well, congratulations, Julie James, because you have succeeded where many have failed, and you are now a definite auto-buy for me.I want Jack Pallas's babies.
If for nothing else, I would love Julie James simply because she created Jack Pallas.
The purse is sacrosanct."(Jack and Wilkins, page 54)A shoulder.
"If you also think it means that I wake up every morning wondering what I did to deserve having you back in my life, well, you'd be right about that, too."(Jack and Cameron, page 305-306)"We sort of come with the package," Collin explained.
A really cute quick read with light-suspense and a romance-comedy storyline.
Asst US Attorney Cameron Lynde witnesses a murder, and then finds herself working with FBI agent Jack Pallas to bring the bad guys to justice.
The dialog and chemistry between these two is where the magic really happens in this book, as the suspense storyline itself is pretty typical fluff we've read many times before.
And when the romance heated up between Jack and Cameron, the scenes don't quickly fade to black and move off stage like they did in this authors first book.
I listened to this audiobook. I really enjoyed this one. Sometimes you just need to listen to a nice love story that will end up all good. I love Julie James' style of writing..a lot of fun, cute dialogue, romance and some suspense all in one! I will definitely read/listen to more Julie James. She writes the kind of contemporary romance I like. I think I may have discovered a new favourite author in the romance genre!
A) Haha, Cameron and Jack are so funny and cute together!B) What the heck just happened?So, these are the two reactions that stuck with me throughout the whole book.
And believe me, you will love Cameron and Jack.
“You know the Tom and Jerry cartoon where Tom hasn’t eaten for days and he imagines Jerry looking like a ham?
Kind of like that.” Just don't mind my three stars, I don't know what's wrong with me but I've been giving three stars to a lot of books lately.
For those of you who love crime solving witty agents, this is the perfect book for you!
*4.5 SIZZLING STARS* "I wake up every morning wondering what I did to deserve having you back in my life." It seems like I've been on a contemporary romance/adult reading spree the last few days and boy am I enjoying it! I loved that this was a mix between suspense and romance, including some pretty steamy scenes. If anyone knows some similar books to this one, please feel free to recommend because I literally slaughtered this novel in less than 5 hours lol.Full review coming soon!
4/5 stars “I’ve licked stamps who were more excited than you by that kiss.” This is such an enjoyable series, the books (I amend; the ones I've read so far in this series) always begin with the two main characters hating each other and slowly (please note; slowly) a romantic relationship begins to bloom. I love this particular trope because it makes the end of the book and the eventually relationship, so much more heart felt. I feel like this series combines all the best things in a trashy roman
This is such an enjoyable series, the books (I amend; the ones I've read so far in this series) always begin with the two main characters hating each other and slowly (please note; slowly) a romantic relationship begins to bloom.
I love this particular trope because it makes the end of the book and the eventually relationship, so much more heart felt.
I feel like this series combines all the best things in a trashy romance book; angsty, heart felt emotions, attractive males, hilarious banter, and kick-ass professional women with bloody kick-ass careers.
Overall, it was an enjoyable read and this will be my go to trashy romance series.
Enemies to lovers and all that...I liked it, even though i wasn't quite into the whole 'suspense' crime thrillery thing for some reason...and I usually love mystery/thriller genre...but here, smth was off...maybe the pacing, or maybe it was just me...In fact, I think it was me...😕 and i believe I would like the book more if the circumstances were better off...My bad
I thought it was best to duck in here.""So much for never leaving a man behind." "If he starts screaming, I'll lay down a cover fire and go pull him out."The first word that comes to mind after reading Something About You is DELICIOUS!
I haven't read a good old romantic suspense in a long time but found myself craving some especially with a little steam!
Then we have Jack Pallas described as "tall, dark and scowling".
It really should say though tall, dark, HOT and scowling.
This is one of the best I have read!
More like a chocolate molten lava cake. A dessert so sinful, so luscious, so filled with inner heat it made a girl want to lick each and every crumb right off the plate. That was Jack Pallas. Updated after third re-read 6/7/16Just as good the third time around! It firmly belong among my all-time favs! Julie James has a rare gift. She is amazing. What I loved about this book:1. The super hot brooding alpha protective FBI agent hero2. The super hot sazzy assistant US Attorney heroine3. Their chem
Updated after third re-read 6/7/16Just as good the third time around!
The super hot sazzy assistant US Attorney heroine3.
Their chemistry and Cameron and Jack as a hot, smashing couple4.
That I actually felt like being threatened by a murderer and protected by Jack sounded totally amazing and something I would not be opposed to (knowing that the HEA was right around the corner)7.
All of the aboveUpdate: I just read it for the second time and it was so good!
Jack Pallas is so hot!
And Cameron is an amazing heroine and I would love to be friends with her.
http://shamelessromancereviews.blogsp...Something about you – After reading Julie James first book – Just the Sexiest Man Alive – I immediately fell in love with her style of writing and dove head first into her next book on my list – Something about you.
Admittedly the book did start slow; it wasn’t until about half way through that I really felt there was progress.
right.Something About You is a beautiful love story with interesting plots, perfectly written characters, humour, and of course a HEA that we are all searching for.Kudos to Julie James!
I love this book!As soon as the motorcycle (aka bad boy bike) came into play, my heart was a goner!
I was a goner!
My heart melted into a big ‘ole puddle of swoon and my head filled with all sorts of fun fantasies!
haha…One of my favorite parts of this action packed fun was Cameron’s strength, intelligence, and aggressiveness.
When their chemistry heated up, Cameron made moves of her own, which I adore and admire in a romance heroine!
I had a lot of fun with this story, chemistry, and characters!
;) Thanks for another week of fun, Ladies!
This book was just what I needed!
With my last couple of books I found myself reading just for the sake of reading; however this was not the case with Something About You. I found it ridiculously hard to put my book down that without realising I’d devoured this book in just one day.On her first relaxing weekend away in a long time Cameron finds herself caught up in a murder investigation.
Her hotel room being next door to where the murder took place she ends up being the only witness that can clear the person being set up.
I LOVED THIS!!I loved the humor in it, the action, the hotness, JACK. It was just amazeballs.I can't wait to read the other books in this series!
