https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2544.The_Madman

The following is one of my favorites.The Seven SelvesIn the stillest hour of the night, as I lay half asleep, my seven selves sat together and thus conversed in whisper: First Self: Here, in this madman, I have dwelt all these years, with naught to do but renew his pain by day and recreate his sorrow by night.
It is I the love-sick self who would rebel against this madman.
Seventh Self: How strange that you all would rebel against this man, because each and every one of you has a preordained fate to fulfil.
As a result of his family's poverty, he received no formal education as a small child but had regular visits from the local priest who taught him about the Bible as well as the Syrian and Arabic languages.
They settled in Boston's South End. He attended public school and art school, where he was introduced to the artist, photographer, and publisher Fred Holland Day. A publisher used some of Gibran's drawings for book covers in 1898.
His family forced him to return to Lebanon to complete his education and learn the Arabic language.
"You ask me how I became a madman.
And when I reached the market place, a youth standing on a house-top cried, "He is a madman." I looked up to behold him; the sun kissed my own naked face for the first time.
For the first time the sun kissed my own naked face and my soul was inflamed with love for the sun, and I wanted my masks no more.
And as if in a trance I cried, "Blessed, blessed are the thieves who stole my masks." Thus I became a madman.
A couple of slim volumes by Kahlil Gibran has been lying around in my house since I can remember.
I had a try at reading them during my teens, but could not enter into his strange world.
Now, after a gap of thirty five years, I realise why I couldn't empathise with him at the time.Gibran's world is romantic, but shot through with a streak of melancholy.
His work - you may call it prose poetry, fable, aphorism or just admit it defies definition - has to be experienced, not analysed.
And it has got a certain quality of timelessness.
لا تقرأ هذا الكتاب بعقلك أبداًبل ترجم كل كلمة فيه لإحساس ماو كل تصوير لشعور ما...كتاب رائع هو تصورات للإنسان غير العادي =المجنونيزيدني انفصالاً عن العالم لكن يزيدني فهماً و اعتزازاً !
Here is a snippet...When my sorrow was bornWhen my sorrow was born I nursed it with care, and watched over it with loving tenderness.And my Sorrow grew like all living things, strong and beautiful and full of wondrous delights.And we loved one another, my Sorrow and I, and we loved the world about us; for Sorrow had a kindly heart and mine was kindly with Sorrow.And when we conversed, my Sorrow and I, our days were winged and our nights were girdled with dreams; for Sorrow had an eloquent tongue, and mine was eloquent with Sorrow.And when we sang together, my Sorrow and I, our neighbors sat at their windows and listenend; for our songs were deep as the sea and our melodies were full of strange memories.And when we walked together, my Sorrow and I, people gazed at us with gentle eyes and whispered in words of exceeding sweetness.
Bir insan hem şair, hem ressam üzerine bir de filozof olunca böyle bir eser çıkıyor demek ki...Kitap çok kısa, küçük küçük bir sürü anlatıdan oluşuyor. Dili gayet basit ama anlamsal olarak bakıldığında inanılmaz derin. Herhangi birini okuduktan sonra şöyle bir durup düşünmek gerekiyor. Birisi hariç hepsinde ana konuya vakıf olduğumu düşünüyorum ama 7 satırdan oluşan "Vermek ve Almak" isimli olanı anlayan birisi açıklarsa inanılmaz mutlu olurum, resmen hiçbir şey anlamadım :)
محاورة صادقة جدا ومحاولة لاستخراج الخلل في النفوس البشرية من باطنها في سبيل علاجه وطرده خارجها إلى اللأبد ، وتدمير الثوابت التي طالما سخط عليها الأديب والفيلسوف العظيم جبران وأهم هذه الثوابت الخضوع لسلطة رجال الدين ، الذين يجنون المكاسب من وراء آيات الكتب السماوية ..
بينما لا يحتاج البشر إليهم ..
لأن الحق واضح جلي كالشمس ، لا يتطلب إلا إعمال العقل والتأمل والتدبر السخرية واضحة جدا من جبن ومخاوف البشر من الحكام والطغاة بينما هم بشر مصيرهم الهلاك إن آجلا أم عاجلامن أراد الحكمة من وجوده ، وأراد أن يكون له رسالة نبيلة وهدفا عظيما ..
I have always heard praise of Kahlil Gibran's work, and now I understand why. The hour (or less) which I spent reading this book has been magical. I listened to the Madman, his stories and ponderings; some of which I understood clearly, and was suffused with much elation and wonder at their ingenuity; while others have eluded me, but I'm not worried, because I will definitely be re-reading this! I usually save the quotes I like, but I couldn't do this here because then I would've simply copied down the entire book. This is how great the writing is (*^_^*)
بي شك اين مجموعه داستان هاي عرفاني و تامل برانگيز كوتاه، مرا به ياد شيوه ي نگارش پائولو كوئيلو مي اندازد. با اين تفاوت كه قلم جبران خليل جبران بسي ادبي تر، زيبا تر و به دور از اعتقادات خشك است. فكر ميكردم او نيز از دين بگويد، اما انگار جسور تر از اين حرف هاست ك در بند اعتقاداتي چنين باشد.

لم أقرأ في حياتي لكاتب مثل جبران يمتلك ناصية التأمل فيما حوله وفيمن حوله..
ستخرج من بين ال35 مقطوعة المتواجدين بالكتاب بدروس وحكم وعبر تظل عالقة بذهنك، مُصاغة بطريقة جبران المتفرّدة في الكتابة؛ حيث قوة الكلمات، ونفاذ الأسلوب، وعمق المعنى.لقد قالت د.
نازك في مقدمتها أن جبران شغل نفسه في هذا الكتاب بمشكلة الأنا في علاقتها بنفسها، بالآخرين، بالكون، وبالله، وقسّمت العمل لجزء اجتماعي وجزء ميتافيزيقي، وكل منهما يتمم الآخر وتجلّى ذلك بوضوع في العمل.أكثر ما راقني كان: الذوات السبع، اللعين، الطموح، اللغة الجديدة، على درجات الهيكل، المدينة المباركة، الوجوه، الحنين الأعظم، والعالم الكامل..
والأخيرة قرأتها أكثر من خمس مرات لفرط جمالها..
اعتقد ان هذا الكتاب ساءه ترجمته مم الانجليزية او اني لم استطع استيعاب الجمالية بكل بساطةوشكراً
ما بالنا نتجادل فيما سيؤول إليه أمرنا فى المستقبلفى حين أننا لا نعرف ما نحن عليه اليوم ؟//الإنسان متى جلس على عرش الملك فقد صار عبداًومتى أدرك الناس أعماق روحه فقد طوى كتاب حياتهومتى بلغ أوج كماله فقد قضي نحبهبل هو كالثمرة إذا نضجت سقطت واندثرت//وما الذكري سوى ورقة خريف لا ترتعش فى الهواء برهة ،حتى تُكّفن بالتراب دهراً~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~أشتاق إليك كثيراً يا جبران ،،اشتاق إليك حين أرغب في الابتعاد عن الضجيج والصخب ،حين أرغب في قراءة هادئة ..
ووقتا الحاضر ؟؟؟؟مهلاً ..إنه حقاً جنون ..فإذا كان الجنون هو كل سلوك غير مُعتاد لا يمكن تفسيره ..فجمالك هنا ..أكبر جنون ..ودامت قراءآتك كلها بهذا الجمال المجنون~~
3/5
Why were you wasting your time with nonsense when something like this was present and could have been read instead!
The Grave-Digger has mystical colors, The Two Learned Men quietly puts you in your place and advises you in hushed tones, Crucified is poetry, beautiful, powerful poetry, The Greater Sea is honest and truthful and thought-provoking, Faces reminded me that to get hold of reality, we must first learn to look through and beyond our own reflection and projection.
The Three Ants again advises you like The Two Learned Men, and it's advice worth taking.
Time enough, readers, to read something that could do that to you.
I was about to write a glowing review before I arrived at this page and found out that Khalil Gibran is not, as I'd thought, a mysterious roaming 13th century Sufi mystic but a regular two generation old dude who hung around in New York, which, in a testament to their awesomeness, probably fits in, in theme and spirit, with one of the stories in this book. But now the nagging suspicion of arti-fartiness stinks up my perceptions, although given the small length and public domain availability, you'd be mad not to read this book.
thus i became a madman And I have found both freedom of loneliness and the safety from being understood, for those who understand us enslave something in us.  this book is one of these too dear to my heart , this is another of Gibran books that is labeled as one of my all time favorites , i was writing the quote above and the Arabic form of "for those who understand us enslave something in us"  "لأن الذين يُدركون كياننا إنما يستعبدون بعض ما فينا" was playing in my head like an old mantra from y
this book is one of these too dear to my heart , this is another of Gibran books that is labeled as one of my all time favorites , i was writing the quote above and the Arabic form of "for those who understand us enslave something in us"  "لأن الذين يُدركون كياننا إنما يستعبدون بعض ما فينا" was playing in my head like an old mantra from years ago , its one of these quotes that shock you when you first read them , then they are unforgettable , a frozen fraction of time , they are suddenly in your mind pockets till forever .this book is a collection of short parables written with a sardonic tone which is both introspective and easily accessible .
i had to re-read it several times to get the hidden meaning and Uncovering it was like figuring out a puzzle .
Doğu'nun bilgeliğinden nasibimi almak için çaldım ben de meczubun kapısını;"Hayır, benim gibi değlisin, ey Meczup! Kumda bıraktığın ayak izinin ne kadar büyük olduğunu görmek için arkana bakmaya devam ediyorsun.""Burada, erkek kardeşim dağ ile kız kardeşim deniz arasında oturuyorum. Üçümüz kendi yalnızlığımızın içindeyiz, bizi birbirimize bağlayan aşk da derin, güçlü ve gariptir."
But at noon he saw his shadow again-and he said, "a mouse will do." The New Pleasure Last night I invented a new pleasure, and as I was giving it the first trial and angel and a devil came rushing toward my house.
They met at my door and fought with each other over my newly created plasure; the one crying, "it is a sin!" -the other, "it is a virtue!".
Thus I became a madman.And I have found both freedom and safety in my madness; the freedom of loneliness and the safety from being understood, for those who understand us enslave something in us.هكذا صرت مجنوناًولكني وجدت بجنوني هذا, الحرية والنجاة معاًحرية الإنفراد, والنجاة من أن يدرك الناس كياني.لأن الذين يُدركون كياننا إنما يستعبدون بعض ما فيناIt is beautifully inspiring!It took me one hour to swim deeply in Gibran's wide ocean of ideas!
Literary speaking from a fanciful point of view, One has to read this masterpiece by the breathing of the heart.
*sigh*I've always loved Gibran's works — both Arabic and English — you get an amazing sensation of insight into life, that you ask yourself, why have I not thought of that?It's hard for me to put a finger on which parable I loved the most. I guess even the ones I didn't comprehend had their impact .. right?Most of the context is written in archaic English — you know, Shakespearean style? — but I found it more compelling and sure hit home, it has a good dose of realism between its metaphorical, imaginative lines.
الله عليك يا جبران ...قمة الابداع . حقا  كتب صغيرة تجعلك تظن واهما بانك ستنهيها في خلال ساعة واحدة لا اكثر ... تستهزئ للوهلة الاولى .. لتجد نفسك غارقا حتى انفك في عمق فكر عظيم .. راقي .. سلس .. مشوق ... لا يتركك تتنفس بل يغرققك اكثر في طيات مجريات ما يرمز له ... فكر شبيه باللغز المستعصي فهمه .. لكنه حلو مستغسي ذوقه ... نصيحة لكل من لا يريد اعادة النظر في ما يحدث حوله و في حياته الا يقرا لهبسمة غراب ..
" I have seen an old face much lined with nothing, and a smooth face in which all things were graven."Wow. What did i just read? Literally, wow! I'm impressed..... I don't even know what to say...this book has to be read again and again. IT'S A MASTERPIECE my favorites are: - the seven selves- faces- when my sorrow was born- the perfect world
"و لكني قد وجدت بجنوني هذا ، الحرية و النجاة معاً: حرية الإنفراد ، و النجاة من أن يدرك الناس كياني ، لأن الذين يدركون كياننا إنما يستعبدون بعض ما فيما."
أما الآن فأود أن أجن ..
ya ben buna nasıl yıldız vereyim:hikayeleri ayırırsam 3 hali var.I. anlamadım.II.
ben şunu anladım ama burada şunu değil başka bir şey demek istedi.III.
anladım.
diyerek büyük konuşuyorum, III.lerden eminim ama bilemiyorum belki de II.dirler.sadece anladıklarım bile baştacı yapmaya değer ama.
so, soo deep derler ya...lakin, kitabın açıklama yazısındakileri bulamadım, göremedim gibi bir mevzu yok; evet, her hikayede varlar da derinine, ardına, manasına giremedim işte.
yani bu; elimde tuttuğum yenilebilen şeyin, organik bir şey olduğunu anlayıp meyve mi sebze mi ot mu et mi, biçimi, tadı, kokusu, ağırlığı nedir anlayamamak gibi bir şey.her birini üç dört defa okudum sanırım.
seninkileri de getir, ve anlat bana lütfen.işte böyle meczup oldum.xoxoiko
أي إنسان قد يقرأ هذا الكتاب, لكن ليس كل من يقرأه عالم بمعناه الحقيقي الداخلي والرسالة التي يخلدها في الشقوق التي أحدثها الزمن بين كلماته..يا صاحبي. بين هجعة ويقظة. اطلبوا تجدوا. الحرب. الملك الحكيم. الطموح. عندما ولدت كآبتي.
كل مبدع مجنون بشكل ما وبدرجة ماوجبران كان مبدعالكن كتاب المجنون لا يتحدث عن جنونه كمبدع فقط ولكن عن جنونه كمبدع في سياق جنون الانسانيةلو مش فاهم اقرا الكتاب وهاتفهمملحوظةفكرة قصة الملك الحكيم اللي في الكتاب هي نفسها فكرة مسرحية قصيرة جدا لتوفيق الحكيم اسمها نهر الجنون
