https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/35297426-then-she-was-gone
I was always several chapters ahead of the characters and it sapped a lot of tension out of the story.I can see why, with a better plot, Jewell is a great writer.
A new romance with a guy called Floyd makes her think that she may finally be moving on, until she meets his youngest daughter, Poppy, who looks shockingly like Ellie.It sort of feels like I've read a hundred different variations of the missing daughter/grieving mother plot, and Then She Was Gone doesn't really do anything new with it.
If you haven't managed to get your hands on a copy yet, then you'll want to make it a priority and here's why...Lisa Jewell knows how to take a classic storyline and make it her own.
The blending of multiple genres in each of her books really creates a unique reading experience; readers of every gender and walk of life have been able to connect with her writing and I feel that's a sure sign of the highest quality of writing.I'm positive you've noticed that I haven't mentioned the plot yet, and that's for good reason.
I’ve read lots of psychological thrillers and this one caught me off guard.
The more I read, the more invested I became and started to care about some of the key characters.
I’m pretty sure I was talking to myself about what was happening!Laurel’s teenage daughter, Ellie goes missing, she is a smart and clever girl.
When she meets his teenage daughter, she can’t shake the feeling of how much she reminds her of her beloved Ellie.
You’ll have to read it to find out!There is an emotional punch as the tension builds towards the dramatic end.
I read a Lisa Jewell novel last year and connected immediately with her writing style, tone, and voice.
I really find myself enamored with Jewell's characters, plots, and settings, so much that I've added ten of her other books to my TBR and hope to read a few more later this year.Domestic drama is the best sub-genre to describe this book.
The book alternates between "Then" and "Now" to tell the story of what happened to Ellie, who kidnapped and hurt her, what the new love interest for Ellie's mother, Laurel, has to say transpired over all the years, and where things really fell apart.
Well, this was certainly different!Missing persons tropes are common in mysteries and thrillers, and the theme has been written and explored in many predictable ways, but also in many clever, even shocking ways.
But, I must say, this novel puts an entirely new and fresh spin on the missing persons mystery-The story begins like so many others- Ellie, a conscientious teenager, and the apple of her mother's eye, left to visit the library and was never seen or heard from again.
But, finally, after years of just going through the motions of life, Laurel meets Floyd, a single dad with a young daughter named Poppy.
Her Mother, Laurel Mack, fell apart after her daughter's disappearance, as most parents would.
Her marriage fell apart, her other daughter, Hanna became distant and withdrawn from her Mother,her son moved away.
So many questions without answers can wear a person down, can leave a hole, and can prevent a person from fully moving on with one's life.Then ten years after her daughter's disappearance, she goes into a bakery after getting her hair cut, and meets a man named Floyd.
Soon Laurel and Floyd are a couple and she has met his two daughters.
Is the book a little predictable?
Gripping psychological thriller about the disappearance of 15-year-old Ellie Mack. Then She was Gone is not about what happened to Ellie, it’s more about the how and the why she disappeared, as well as the after-effects of her disappearance on her family.  One morning, Ellie Mack heads to the library. At 10:43 am, she was never to be seen again. The police’s investigation never turned up any clues to what happened to her, but believe she ran away. Her mother, Laurel, believes otherwise. After 1
Gripping psychological thriller about the disappearance of 15-year-old Ellie Mack.
Then She was Gone is not about what happened to Ellie, it’s more about the how and the why she disappeared, as well as the after-effects of her disappearance on her family.
The more and more Laurel spends time with Floyd and Polly, she comes to realize that what happened to Ellie was not at all what it seemed.
Her mother, Laurel, also has a main voice in the story.There are several things I loved about this book.
While it’s obvious what happened to Ellie, what is not are the reasons why.
All I knew was that Ellie was a bright girl - an excellent student - and that her mother - Laurel had a ‘special’ love for her ( in ways she definitely didn’t her other two children) — Much about this story felt real.
Right here in the Bay Area.Besides the suspense — the characters hearts are tender - I felt what they did — none were offensive.
Lisa Jewel wrote a ‘jewel’ of a great suspenseful- book with terrific fantastic characters.
On her way to the library one evening, she disappears.
Would she finally find out what happened to her daughter?A very suspenseful story, with an underlying sense of creepiness, and a novel way of telling a story.
As a reader I pretty guessed what had happened to Ellie, in fact the sisters I was reading this with also had the same thoughts.
This happened in the first third of the book but...there was still much to discover.
The author kept my interest by some very good storytelling, and by the way it was structured.
Missing with a twist - this is quite a popular book genre right now.
So, yes, Gone Girl-ers, this is another book for you!Now, this doesn't tend to be a favorite genre of mine.
Because of all this, I am thinking this would be a great book to read with a group of friends or a book club (and, it does just so happens to be one of my book club picks this month)Much like the other book I just read from this genre (What Happened to Michael), I can safely recommend this to "missing person with a twist" thriller fans.
Ellie Mack went missing 10 years ago.
Ellie was fifteen years old, full of life.
Now, Laurel Mack’s life is very different: her marriage fell apart years ago and her relationship with her remaining children is tenuous.
Laurel begins questioning everything and those questions take her on a dangerous path, one she never envisioned.
For full Traveling Sister Group reviews, please see Brenda and Norma’s blog: https://twosisterslostinacoulee.comThank you to NetGalley, Ariele Friedman, Atria Books and Lisa Jewell for a complimentary copy of this novel in exchange for an honest review.Published on NetGalley, Goodreads and Twitter on 4.15.18.
👩👧Then She Was Gone was dark, gripping and absolutely addictive! 💔Ellie Mack was vibrant, happy, smart, in love and only fifteen when she disappeared without a trace. Authorities ruled her a runaway but her mother, Laurel Mack, could never fully accept that. There were too many unanswered questions and she just knew that Ellie wouldn't simply walk away from the life she loved. Laurel's life is put on hold with the disappearance of her daughter. She is simply stuck, unable to move on with life wi
💔Ellie Mack was vibrant, happy, smart, in love and only fifteen when she disappeared without a trace.
Authorities ruled her a runaway but her mother, Laurel Mack, could never fully accept that.
There were too many unanswered questions and she just knew that Ellie wouldn't simply walk away from the life she loved.
Laurel's life is put on hold with the disappearance of her daughter.
She is simply stuck, unable to move on with life without knowing what happened to her daughter.
I was fully invested in this story and was heartbroken for Ellie's family.
I completely lost myself in this book from beginning to end!Laurel is doing her best to move on with her life.
Laurel and Paul divorcing.
When laurel meets Floyd she’s quickly swept off her feet.
Could Floyd be too good to be true?
What a breath of fresh air this book was for me.
I‘ve had trouble loosing myself in a good book lately.
Though some give-away clues are revealed early on, you’re still taken on a journey that will most definitely pull your heart in many directions.A wonderful Traveling Sister read 🌸Thank you to NetGalley, Atria Books and Lisa Jewell for an ARC to read in exchange for an honest review.For this review and our full Traveling Sister review please visit Brenda and Norma’s fabulous blog:https://twosisterslostinacoulee.com/
Another winner from Lisa Jewell!Laurel Mack’s smart and beautiful teenage daughter Ellie disappeared 10 years ago.
Now divorced and distant from her other two children, Laurel is attempting to move on and begins dating a handsome and kind man.
Then unusual coincidences related to Laurel’s new boyfriend and also to Ellie begin occurring and things start to get unsettling for Laurel.
I don’t want to say more because part of the excitement of the book is discovering how the various plot lines intertwine and how the mysteries are resolved.
Lisa Jewell is a brilliant storyteller and I will be recommending this book for an emotional, suspenseful, and captivating read.
THEN SHE WAS GONE by LISA JEWELL is a breathtaking, thrilling, unputdownable, and suspenseful psychological thriller novel that had me totally engrossed and interested right from the very first page.
LISA JEWELL delivers a well-written story here with flawed, believable, and compelling characters that was told in alternating points of view and short chapters to make this a quick and easy read.
Upon finishing one chapter it was easy to read the next and then just one more chapter and before I knew it I was finished!I absolutely love LISA JEWELL’S writing style as she writes with passion and feeling and I couldn’t help but feel for so many of these characters.
The main character in this novel is Laurel who has three children, two of whom are daughters whom she adores and they have great family dynamics.
Not because the plot was stagnant but quite the opposite, it was speeding along so fast and with an outcome that seemed too terrible that I just had to stop, just until the next day when I furiously turned the pages to find out the mystery.I won’t go over the plot, I rarely do that, you all read the blurbs on the books I know you do!
You know where it’s going but you just can’t stop it.I love strongly character driven novels, including thrillers and that is what Ms. Jewell does so so well.
Then one day, Ellie was supposed to go to the library and be home by lunchtime, but she never made it there, and she never returned.For 10 years, Ellie's mother Laurel has held out a small sliver of hope that Ellie might have simply run away for some reason and she might come back, even though in her heart she knows her daughter is probably dead.
But Laurel cannot shake just how similar Poppy looks to Ellie, and how at times, when Poppy speaks, it is like she's in the same room with her daughter.
Someone once mooted the theory that Hanna felt too guilty to have a boyfriend because her little sister would never have one.
When you are the parent of a child who walked out of the house one morning with a rucksack full of books to study at a library a fifteen minute walk away and then never came home again, then there is no such thing as overreacting.
Who still has secrets to hide?MY THOUGHTS: I loved this book.
And in this very 'ordinaryness' Jewell creates compelling characters that we come to love and empathise with, and addictive reads.
Ultimately, since police can’t find anything, they suspect she’s a runaway despite the fact she had a boyfriend she loved and was looking forward to taking the exams she’d been studying hard for.When we meet up with her mother Laurel ten years later, Laurel’s relationships with her other daughter, her son, and her now-ex-husband have all suffered greatly because they’d never found a body or any evidence of where Ellie may have gone.
The not knowing if Ellie is alive or dead has made it impossible for Laurel to move on.New evidence comes to light at the same time Laurel falls for Floyd, her first relationship with a man since she and her husband separated seven years earlier.
This was a spine-tingling and addictive story!This novel follows Laurel whose teenage daughter, Ellie, went missing ten years ago.
Laurel has been battling her grief since the day Ellie disappeared with the hope that she may one day come home.
After Ellie’s disappearance, being swallowed up in her sadness and grief, Laurel’s marriage falls apart and she loses her connection with her two other children.The story is narrated by various characters in Laurel’s life through a Now and Then perspective, each character adding a new layer of suspense and appeal as the novel brilliantly unfolds.The author, Lisa Jewell, has a fantastic ability to pull you in right from the start.
My fist Lisa Jewell novel and lucky me as she appears to have a list of thrillers which I cant wait to try.I listened to this one on audible and it was just so well narrated, the voice of Noelle Donnelly was just so perfect and she sent shivers down my spine.
Well paced and not too dramatic this just works beautifully on audible.Jewell writes wonderfully engaging characters, fresh and vivid, but quite believable.
its a novel and its supposed to take us out of the real world for a little while.Chilling, Disturbing and gripping are three words to describe this one and I hope my Goodreads friend’s will recommend more by this author for me to devour.
Nothing could be farther than the truth in Laurel's eyes.As time passes, the deep love imprint of the missing Ellie has left its mark on the Mack family.
Coincidence or merely a longing of the soul?Lisa Jewell presents a storyline that begins with the tragedy of a missing daughter and a family's downward spiral in its aftermath.
There will also be moments of celebration as Laurel slowly removes layer upon layer of her self-imposed isolation and begins a life with Floyd.As readers, we will note that Lisa Jewell tends to stretch the borders of reality in some scenes.
Then She Was Gone is a very mild title compared to the volcanic torment and angst behind the cover.
Teenage daughter Ellie goes missing and blah blah blah...except that it's not so clear cut or cliched.The action takes place in multiple points of view, and it's a treat to be fed factoid after factoid to try and make sense.
It's deliciously excruciating how the info builds up to shape up the final solution.Lisa Jewell is part of the latest generation of writers.
The latter have bypassed Chaucer, Milton, and Shakespeare to shape up to be gifted writers.
Lisa Jewell is part of this disconnected generation.
15 year old Ellie Mack leaves home to study one day and never returns.
He has a 9 year old daughter, Poppy, who bears a striking resemblance to Ellie.
I enjoyed it a lot and she was a great narrator, reading with enthusiasm as well as distinction between voices of the different characters, as the story is told through multiple POVs.Then She Was Gone is a suspenseful read that both mystery novices and pros will likely enjoy.
It’s a dark story, and even when the big picture of what was going on became clear, I was still interested and had to know the why and the how.
I'm kicking myself for not reading any Lisa Jewell before this book even though I do have The House We Grew Up In sitting on my bookshelf unread.
Laurel Mack had a wonderful life and family until the dreadful day when her teenage daughter Ellie goes missing.
Her husband leaves and eventually remarries, her son moves in with his girlfriend, and her relationship with her other daughter turns cold and distant.
Eventually he invites her to meet his daughter, Poppy.
This story got me out of my rut...
knock on wood.A daughter, Ellie Mack, has been missing only to be found 10 years later.Her mother, Laurel, whom now has closure, is trying to move on with her life; fix the relationships that have suffered during her grieving.She meets a man, with a child, who very much reminds her of her once precious one.
As the story unfolds, the perspective is told by Ellie and the mystery of her disappearance.Jewell delivers another fast paced whodunnit with some interesting well braided twists.Reminded me a little of Her Lovely Bones.Only complaint: the British term ‘jumper’ came up several times referring to apparel.
Off to google I go.4⭐️ go to Jewell for another successful and well done mystery.
We all agreed Lisa Jewell brilliantly creates a well-written and perfectly paced story to create a good, intriguing suspenseful story.
Just at the right time, she reveals enough of the story to create suspense and then gives us understanding and insight into her characters rather than creating a shocky twisty story.
We all highly recommend Then She Was Gone.Publishing Date: April 17, 2018Thank you, NetGalley, Atria Books, and Lisa Jewell for a copy to read and review.
Review written and posted on our themed book blog Two Sisters Lost In A Coulee Reading.https://twosisterslostinacoulee.comCoulee: a term applied rather loosely to different landforms, all of which refer to a kind of valley.
The narrative goes back and forth between the present day and the past, and is told from the perspective of four different characters, at different times throughout the book, although mainly from the pov of Laurel and Ellie.
Other than that, Then She Was Gone, is an enjoyable suspenseful read, filled with characters with shady secrets and questionable pasts.
However, I shouldn't let this detract from the fact this is a well written book, it certainly didn't drag, each time i picked my kindle up I was looking forward to reading it.
As a big fan of Lisa Jewell, I was excited to hear about Then She Was Gone, which follows her turn to a rather darker spin she has been successfully using in her past few books.
The story follows Laurel Mack, though it is really told from multiple POVs (of which I tend to be a big fan).
I will admit, I guessed the revelation about half-way through, but that may simply be because I read a lot of crime fiction and it is getting harder and harder to find a book in this genre with a truly shocking twist.
10 years ago, Ellie, the beloved, intelligent and clever golden girl of the family goes missing on her way to the library.
There is no reason she would run away, but after their futile investigations, the police assumes just that.After Ellie’s disappearance, her mother Laurel’s life becomes bitter and bleak and she is unable to move on like the rest of her family.But when 10 years later she meets the charming and delightful Floyd in a café, little by little she begins to see light and once again welcomes the missing joy and fun to her life.
