https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/123168.Outlaw_Red
I read so many Kjelgaard books when I was a kid. They stand out just as much as the stories of Albert Payson Terhune and more than Lassie Come-Home. Now, I have to ask why is it always a boy and his dog? Girls have dogs too. Anyway, Outlaw Red was my favorite Kjelgaard book, mainly because the boy wasn't in it that much. It's a good adventure story about a dog. Thrilling.
Just 3 stars.While I enjoyed the first two books in the series, this one focused so much on the dog and what he was doing and going through that it lost the feel the other stories had. When I read dog books I want more about the people. Yes, there was some about Billy Dash, but not much. I wanted to know more about him, more about Danny, and I was disappointed not to. Perhaps that's why it took me three days to read it all.
The family has a really talented dog that can chase down any small game animal.
The family lived in a decent house out in the country surrounded by the woods with lot of hunting property.The author has written another dog book called "Snow Dog." It has the same characters in it as "Outlaw Red." I haven't read "Snow Dog" yet, but I think that is going to be the next book I'm going to read because I liked the book I just finished.I would recommend this book to boys around the ages of 10-16 who like the outdoors.
Also read this one a long, long time ago, but it was someone else's used copy, which was falling apart and missing several pages. I probably would have enjoyed it more if it hadn't been missing pages. As it stands, I hardly remember anything, save a few opening bits.
One of the best of his books...was read to my class by our 4th-Grade teacher, who inspired me to love books and reading...thanks, Mrs. Jacobson!
Again, another great book from the "Big Red" series.
I love how each Irish Setter in each book has a unique personality.
It prevents the series from being repetitive and keeps the reader interested.
Sean was certainly a different setter from Red and Mike.
It's almost like a tamer version of Jack London's "Call of the Wild." Sean has to learn by the seat of his pants how to survive in the wilderness, and adjusts over time to the rhythm of the woods.
See my reviews on the other two books in the series for further details and thoughts.
Another delightful story from Jim Kjelgaard, told from the perspective of a Irish Sitter named Sean."He is a champion, the biggest, handsomest son of Big Red.""Bursting with hunting instincts, he fretted under his pampered kennel life, and longed for the wilds.
Then suddenly his life changed.
He finds himself on his own in the Wintapi wilderness.
He now is lost and his human protectors gone.
Sean is an outlaw, he is hunted and shot at by the hill men, who thinks he is dangerous.This story is a stirring tale of bravery and an exciting wilderness adventure.
I enjoyed reading Outlaw Red from a pampered dog's perspective who gets lost in the wilderness and learns to tough it out. This book is exciting! I raced through it. If you enjoy adventure books as I do, such as Call of the Wild, Moby Dick, or Swiss Family Robinson I would recommend Outlaw Red for you. The book is appropriate for any age group as long as they have at least an upper elementary reading level. Left out of the book are racial stereotypes that were commonly found in books from this time period.
I loved this book with all its twists and turns. It's almost like a "Lassie, Come Home" story, except that it's about an Irish Setter accidentally left to fend for itself and (hopefully) find a mate in the process. The dog's life is closely intertwined with the people who love him as well as those who are convinced the dog must be destroyed. I liked this book even better than Big Red.
This is an epic adventure and takes readers into the the life of Outlaw red. A life that changes drastically from peaceful existence to tragedy and danger. The author has several books about dogs and all are great reads.
Big Red by Jim Kjelgaard was better than any of his other books! This doesn't imply that all other of his books are a waste of time.
I was reminded of Jack London's novel "Call of the wild." It was a good read, but I was distracted by the similarity, and parallels to London's book.
In this book Billy loses his dog named Sean in the woods in the middle of the Rocky Mountains.
In the beginning of this book Billy and his dog Sean are out in the woods rabbit hunting when a huge thunder storm hit.
It the end of this book Sean smells Billy from a long ways away and then he runs to him through the brush and Billy is so glad to see him.
Together Billy and Sean were able to find there way out of the woods and went home and had a huge meal and were all better.
A fine dog story from a fine dog story author! This is a continuation of the Big Red series. Told simply with a great passion for his characters, it is a nice read for those who love dogs or just a good dog story.
Jim Kjelgaard's Irish Setter books are the ultimate boy-and-his-dog adventure stories. Although it has been a very long time since I read them, I do remember that they completely enthralled me at the time, and captured my heart and imagination.
Dogs
One of my favorite authors growing up. Enjoyed re-reading that
A clichéd story about a Irish Setter who is lost in the wilderness. Predictable, but I still love it. :)
Great book
This is my least favorite of the "Red" books by Jim Kjelgaard. However, it is worth reading at least once if you are a fan.
Who writes a book about a dog named Sean? But Sean is a good dog, a sad dog, and he fights a coyote and reunes with Billy Dash who didn't kill his Uncle Hat after all.
JAR5-Kje
