https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/688313.To_the_Golden_Shore
It was necessary for patience, perseverance and prayer to lay the foundation for the many conversions to Christianity that took place in later years.Judson, an intelligent man with a promising academic future renounced it all to serve as the first missionary to be officially sent out from America.
A local leader later came to advise them that having walked around in the community in the evening all the wooden shack houses had little lights on display and the sounds of the people reading the tracts aloud could be heard throughout the area.During a festival to a heathen god they distributedNearly ten thousand tracts, giving to none but those who ask.
After reading My Heart in His Hands: Ann Judson of Burma, on Adoniram Judson's wife, Ann, I was eager to read this book to get an even closer glimpse into the life of this missionary couple.
It was a very honest look into the life of the Judson's.I could go on and on with this review because it covered over 30 years of missionary work and before that the early days of Adoniram, but I shall stop here and let you read the book yourselves and discover the treasures inside.
It gives great insight into the mind of Adoniram and the development of his thoughts and views throughout his life.
I say it only as a credit to the author in depicting the humanity of Mr. JudsonI can only imagine the amount of research that Mr. Anderson did on order to create this book.
I thought the number of direct quotations was very helpful for the narrative and were not a crutch in the least.
It has all of the elements of a good story (and all human life) including joy, happiness, despair, humor and the like.
4.5 starsA very good and thorough book covering the entire life of one of Burma's (Myanmar) first missionaries, Adoniram Judson.Anderson clearly did a lot of research for the book! I really appreciated that he portrayed the good and the bad in the personalities and characters of the individuals he wrote about, and didn't place anyone on a pedestal.It was a tad long, yet I felt most of what was included did actually add to the book, so I don't want to complain too much about that!A worthwhile read for anyone interested in missions or history.
Eventually a sending organization was formed by the Congregationalist churches and sponsored the small team of missionaries.As they made their way towards Burma, the Judsons began to learn that most of the positive aspects of Burma that Adoniram had read about were not accurate.
Author does a good job of conveying both the immense convictions and weaknesses of Judson throughout his life-definitely recommend
Anderson's work on the life of Judson is fantastic. He is thorough and his writing is clear and interesting. The life of Adoniram Judson is a magnificent example of missionary determination and the will to be of service to God. If you have never read a missionary biography, this is an excellent place to start.
Wow.I cried at the end of this book.
The ending wasn't that powerful in itself, but the accumulation of feelings about the endurance of faith in Adoniram Judson's life was finally released at his passing.Even taking into context the universally bad medical care at the time, and the frequency with which all people experienced sufferings like infant mortality, it is still a shock to see the tremendous difficulties he went through.
There was a boldness and singleness of purpose in his life that is worth imitation.
The book starts of slowly, with around a third of it detailing Adoniram's parents and his early life.
The story really picks up after he starts his missionary journey.
His life is incredibly hard and tragic.
He seems to be followed by the death of loved ones and the hardships the come with treasuring Christ in unreached locations.
This book will cause you to treasure Christ above worldly treasure, and fill you with immense thanks for the work that foreign missionaries have done to blaze the trail for missions today.
I left this book with a greater love for Christ and his church.
I read an article interviewing multiple scholars of church history, and when asked for their favorite biographies, several mentioned this book. It's a 500 page heavyweight, impressively detailed, and yet was not a hard read. As someone familiar with the Protestant missionary world of the last 100 years, this story of the first sent American foreign missionary is sometimes so familiar, sometimes so different. Judson is a fascinating figure with three successive wives he was truly devoted to, boundless energy, and yet times of deep heartache and depression and prison and torture. His is a story worth reading.
Wow, what a life! This is currently my favorite missionary biography I've read, to date. I am so spoiled and feel guilty for my easy, 21st-century life. The things Judson (and each of his 3 wives) went through are imponderable to me, and I'm so challenged to live a stronger, bolder life for Christ. All Christians must read this book! The writing is very easy to read and at times, artistic and poetic. I enjoyed it a lot more than I thought I would :} A long book, but well worth my time.
Here is the story of Adoniram Judson, among the first American missionaries. At 500 pages, Anderson may be thorough to a fault, however the Judson saga is so compelling that only a few sections drag. While Judson was far from perfect, a fact Anderson does not hide (though he tends toward hagiography at times) his life bears witness to the grace of Christ he not only shared with others but fiercely clung to himself. Highly recommended.
Hopefully Matt & Erin like this book a little more than I did, since we gave it to them for Christmas. I just finished this for a missions class I took this January.Judson is a great story of missionary perseverance. What bothered me was the author's tendency not to deal honestly with Judson's faults and to blatantly make up anecdotes about his life.
This is an engaging biography of Judson. However it is not annotated, leaving the reader to wonder at times about the source for dialogue or the reporting of the thoughts of certain characters. Nonetheless the broad outlines are accurate and general sources are provided. The book is devotional and spiritually challenging.
To the Golden Shore is one of greatest biographies I've ever read.After reading the story of the life of Adoniram Judson, I am encouraged to follow Christ even more no matter what the cost. Read this book, and be encouraged and challenged.I long to reach the golden shore!
A wonderful biography of the life of Adoniram Judson, missionary to Burma and of the women who stood by his side. Drawing upon original sources, letters and journals, the actual accounts of those 18th and 19th century events are recorded in very readable style. Highly recommended.
One of the best, and most moving, biographies I have ever read.
"The motto of every missionary, whether preacher, printer, or schoolmaster, ought to be 'Devoted for life.'"Those are Adoniram Judson's own words, and I can't think of a more fitting description of his life.
Just the letter he wrote to Ann Hasseltine Judson's father, seeking his blessing both for their marriage and for moving to the mission field, is one of the best things you will ever read.
I am tempted to quote the letter in its entirety here, but I will opt instead to urge you to read both the letter and the entire biography for yourself and let your soul be encouraged.
Deeply moving.One thing I particularly appreciated: the author gave a good sense of Adoniram’s sanctification as his life progressed.
Encouraging book on the life of Adoniram Judson and the first American missionaries. A book that will greatly add to a well rounded knowledge and understanding of missions and the impact it has on those at home and away.
In a country where punishments were some of the bloodiest on earth (beheading, crucifixtion, pouring melted lead down the throat in small quantities), where the "Golden Feet" (the King) took the choice possessions of its inhabitants, and lies and deception where commonly accepted, Adonirom Judson worked tirelessly with his wife to learn the language, translate the Bible, translate catechism, create tracts, and hold worship services to save the people of Burma (modern day Myanmar) from spiritual death.
that a man coming [through such ordeals] has nothing better to say tell than the wonderous story of Jesus' dying love." That is a good reminder for me to preach to myself.
What a wonderful background to better understand current events in Myanmar and be encouraged to continue proclaiming the saving truth of the gospel.
He suffered extraordinary hardships along the way: persecution; imprisonment; torture; recurrent, serious illnesses; the deaths of his first two wives; the deaths of most of his children.Courtney Anderson, who wrote this in 1956, tells the story with unblinking honesty and with details that make the reader feel like he was there.
Judson comes across not as a superhero but as a real human being who had struggles in his faith just like I do.The book is more than 500 pages long and perhaps suffers slightly from being too exhaustive.
To the Golden Shore is a biography by Courtney Anderson on Adoniram Judson, a Congregationalist (later converts to Baptist) missionary with a call to preach and live God's word among the natives of Burma, a cruel and arrogant people.
Through the book one will read of Adoniram's trials, hopes, and dreams in not only missionary work, but also marriage and fatherhood.I do so very much like the layout of the book as, unlike many other biographies, when telling the story of Adoniram, Anderson (the author) does not jump from one year to three years later without telling you.
A biography of the early 19th century missionary to Burma (now known as Myanmar), and any romanticized notions I may have had about foreign missionary service were completely upended by this.
Judson was a highly erudite young man-about-town who although nominally a Christian, was at first more interested in pursuing a secular career.
The twists and turns of his life and how he became a pioneering missionary in one of the most brutal countries on earth make for compelling reading.
This is not a shiny sanitized Sunday School version of life on the foreign mission fields and I was completely captivated (as well as convicted and tear-soaked by the end).
Gut-wrenching at times, what this family endured for the sake of the gospel is tremendous.
It puts one's own sufferings in perspective and simultaneously spurs one on to embrace suffering for Christ's sake.
Personally, I identified (unexpectedly) with him in his later years, rather than as a young man.
While the early years of Adoniram and Nancy's time in Burma get a little detailed in the middle of the book, it moves along quite quickly for most of the rest.
I enjoyed the last third of the book most.
Let Anderson transport you to a world of New England Christianity, life in India, and the hardships in pioneering missionary work in Burma, that is now long gone.
Anderson tells a story of intense focus, setback after setback, and courage that continues to make you shake your head all throughout this book.
Anderson does not write to shock, his 'just the facts' style is not meant to play on your emotions, but this well-researched story on the life of Adoniram Judson will keep you spellbound, challenge your own faith and remind us how far we have slipped from such hold-back-nothing commitment to our Lord Jesus.
This is a really long book, but it was fascinating reading.
Adoniram Judson left the US in 1812 with the intention of never coming back from the mission field.
He didn't know WHICH mission field he and his young wife would end up in, but he was so committed that he never looked back.
After many misadventures they ended up in Burma, which was ruled by an absolute despot.
It was amazing to read about how they lived, and how much they got accomplished.
This was a very challenging and inspiring book for me.
I thank God for missionary heroes like Adoniram Judson, who sowed seeds faithfully for Christ, caring more about following after God than looking at results.
This was NOT just about one or two people.
It was about how the Baptist Religion first began.
Why do many people call their deacons "Brother John or Brother ..." ?
This books tells how that all started.
It is rich in details of the war of Britain & Burma.
It also explains about the First Congregationalist Church was started.
It has love, marriage, children, death, war, East India Trading Company (A very big deal), Burma, America before Texas was a state.
If you want a true history of the first church in America, read this.
A great book.
I was told this is a must read and I was not disappointed. I appreciate biographies that bring out not only note worthy achievements of the individual but also their weaknesses and struggles. My wife and I enjoyed reading this book together and we would highly recommend it - it is both captivating and inspirational. As one of the first American foreign missionaries, Judson departed for Burma in 1812 with others whom he inspired. His life story and passion for the Gospel ought not to be forgotten.
