https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/8734881-the-variable-man
I listened to the Audible Audiobook whilst gardening, at just over 3 hours it made the time pass inordinately quickly, a good story and a narrater with a great voice in Chris Lutkin.The story centres around a war between Earth, just escaping to the stars and an older civilisation from Centaurus.
Our vitality and technological advances are gradually outstripping a corrupt and stagnant galactic empire, however the possibility of winning a war and reaching our destiny is still very close according the giant machines that digest all data and predict the outcome for Earth's leaders.Into the mix add a man literally dragged mistakenly from the early 1900s who has an inmate ability to repair machines, and all of a sudden chaos ensues.
Dick novella (first published in Space Science Fiction in 1953) is inventive and interesting, but it lacks the reality-challenging perspective that characterizes most of his best work.In the second century of the second millennium, the Terrans, new to intergalactic conflict, are at war with the old empire of Proxima Centauri.
Recently, their conflict has been a “cold war” of sorts—consisting of weapons development, intelligence gathering, and probability estimates—but the Terrans have now developed a weapon so original and devastating that they are determined to use it.
The Terrans have an SRB computer that is constantly evaluating humanity’s odds of succeeding in an actual war with the Centaurans, and they’re waiting to fight until the computer shows that the odds have shifted in their favor.But now it has occurred to the human researchers that they can use an FTL device as a bomb against the Centaurans, which they’ll be unable to avoid because of its FTL speed.
:)This story is short, has a really excellent sci-fi plot twist (I already said too much here), and has some PKD's standard troupes.
(view spoiler)[Such as: time travel, prediction the future, war/weapon race against Alpha Centauri people, cat-and-mouse-chasing plot.
(hide spoiler)]And I found one pleasant surprise in this story.
I put spoiler for anyone people who want to strictly read it all by yourself.
I just can't help myself not mentioning it on my review, but don't worry I won't spoil the details: (view spoiler)[ I was so surprised finding this story had one of the most happy ending compared to other PKD's fictions that I have ever read.
(hide spoiler)]
I think it's easy to look around and see our peers lack the qualities we wish society had, and we look back through magic glasses and believe the world of our youth was a hardier place.
Dick was already seeing his world lose the qualities that he valued in his time.
We can take a bit of comfort, however, in the observation that we are 60 years in his future and his beloved small-town American testosterone is still obnoxiously present in our society today.
Perhaps in 60 years, though our world will be made condescendingly simple, we won't find ourselves to be any less arrogant about our society's intellectual level than we are today.
Has anyone else noticed that about 70% of the time that a female character is introduced in early Dick stories her breasts are the most intricately described physical characteristics? Like he'll introduce a female character by saying "she was a brunette with full firm breasts." I may not know what her face looks like, but I always have a clear idea of the precise nature of one of Dick's women's breasts. Also the breasts are usually pretty similar (ie hot tits). I've never seen him describe floppy sagging breasts.
His rival Sherikov, however, wants to make use of Cole in order to complete the Terran wunderwaffe, which is to tip the scales in Terra’s favour.The Variable Man is a very fast-paced tale, including a breath-taking chase and an epic shoot-out between Reinhart’s forces and Sherikov’s, but at the bottom of it, there is also Dick’s clear-sighted criticism of what he sees as the potential risks his society is running.“’[…] We’re going to war because a machine says we have a statistical chance of winning.’”President Margaret Duffe’s words brilliantly express the unquestioning confidence modern people often put into the technology by which they are surrounded, which was the creation of individual masterminds but which has turned people into blind believers.
This novella is perhaps the closest thing to a normal science fiction story (is there such a beast?) that I've read from Philip K. Dick. But even "normal" means "top-notch" where he's concerned. Well written tale of a dystopian Earth and a man from the past who throws a wrench into their carefully calculated plans for intergalactic war.
A theory of war and zombies ,from the Cold War. Great moments and wordiness and old plot.
The story was slow getting started, but then was a thorough joy right to the finish. The main character is a little unbelievable, but not insurmountably so.
Disregard for hard science (check).Impending doom only the reluctant hero can avoid (check).
Instead of coming up with new solutions to avoid the event, they fixate on it and are become blind to all other possibilities and options.Throw in a time travel, a space war, and totalitarian government officials willing to level whole mountains to kill one man and you have a fun little read.The copy I had could however benefit from some better editing and formatting.
Zbirka tri priče iz 1953. (150 stranica ukupno)Jedna dulja (stotinjak stranica) i dvije kraće.Najomiljeniji SF pisac za filmske ekranizacije, sumnjam da ima ikoga tko nije pogledao neki od filmova po njegovim pričama.Samo njih nekoliko: Blade Runner, Total Recall, Minority Report...(imate popis na http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_...)Naravno da morate pročitati sve njegovo što vam bude u dosegu pa tako i ovu zbirku.Jako dobre priče, a kad se sjetite godišta onda i odlične (vrlo malo detalja kojima bi se mogle smjestiti u našu tehnološku prapovijest pedesetih što je odlika izuzetnog pisca)Preporuka svakako, no ako ih želite za zbirku HR cijena pomalo visoka za tanku knjižicu.
This Philip K Dick story is about waging virtual war - not pushing the big red button (in this case to launch the ultimate weapon, Icarus) until the computers tell us the probability of winning is overwhelming.
Now, the war is with Proxima Centauri and not some Middle Eastern country, but the parallels are uncanny.
In this story, the entire equation is thrown out of balance by the arrival of the variable man - with a surprising and thoughtful ending.
I won't spoil the end, but this is a great read for fans of the genre.
Good story!
Short, but interesting. I did enjoy it. Recommended.
*SPOILER ALERT: READ BOOK FIRST*Absorbing and gripping as it builds, The Variable Man is neatly pared sci-fi that does just what's said on the tin - and more.The narrative is not complex and could even reasonably be considered somewhat dull: ambitious scientist and government official agonize over the timely completion of a super-weapon in some implausible, (almost literally) predictable intergalactic arms-race in the future.
The simplicity of the narrative succeeds because Dick is an excellent writer, the pacy dialogue and vivid sketches - 'Titanic blasts' tearing mountainsides asunder and so forth - coax the reader through implausibility and clunky future-science to the conclusion of a well rounded tale about the potential threats posed to humankind by over-dependence upon technology, particularly data.
U noveli Čovjek-nepoznanica autor se bavi svemirskim ratovanjem koje je određeno parametrima izgleda koji se mijenjaju na računalu kako koja strana napreduje sve dok ne dođe do izravnog sukoba.
Sve to poremetio je čovjek slučajno doveden iz prošlosti, čovjek koji mijenja sve varijable i zato mora biti uništen.
Čovjek-nepoznanica govori o tome kako ustaljeni režimi mogu biti uzdrmani do temelja od strane pojedinca koji razmišlja izvan okvira.
U Braniteljima autor donosi prikaz hladnog rata koji se vodi na površini dok ljudi žive u strukturiranim podzemnim naseljima.
Cijelo to vrijeme strojevi-olovnjaci za njih "vode" bitke, ali ih u biti brane i od njih samih te dovode u pitanje sami (be)smisao rata.
An Exceptional Science Fiction Tale!Philip K Dick is one of the world's best science fiction writers.
"The Variable Man" is a story about a custodian future earth which has been in a constant state of war preparation for nearly 100 years.
All major decisions, including going to war, are based on statistical analysis provided by a quantum computer.
The paradox is that the computer's decision are based on data controlled by a single department and decisions are quantified based on what the people most likely desire, absent any direct input by the masses!
Only the result of one variable can save the earth!
I recommend this book to everyone who enjoy a great story!
A wonderful story about how intuition can save the day. With growing evidence, we are seeing that intuition should not be as highly prized as we once imagined, but this story is an example of how it still has its uses. Also, it does not demonize the concept of being a jack of all trades, which is usually followed by the insult "master of none." The author also throws in some dystopian ideas such as the worship of machines, intergalactic war, and a monopoly on power.
I loved this story. It was written in 1953, but it really has no age to it. It tells the story of the Terrans who are basing all their decisions on computer projections. When a man arrives from the past he throws all their conclusions into doubt. Dick crafts a great novella and it's no wonder he's so well remembered today.
A stranger shows up in a land where he is welcomed and feared.He is from the past.He fixes things,some don't want things fixed. A good sci fi short book..Narrated nicely by Al Kessel.“I was voluntarily provided this free review copy audiobook by the author, narrator, or publisher.”
Fantastic. I didn't consider the idea of a thriller centering around 'the knack'. Nice flavor consistency, though I would have appreciated it more not deployed into the rushed medium of the chase-em-down, shoot-em-up, military thrill ride.
This is a 100-page novella. There is a strong first half, and a bit of a slow second-half; however the message, twist, and early paranoia of PKD really makes this an enjoyable story!This novella was released in 1953.
Read on LibriVox (free audio books in the public domain).
Simple but enjoyable
Well, it was't as good as I hoping!
Very good, the author kept me wanting to be part of the story.
A toaster repairman from 1913 is accidentally brought to the future and ends up creating a ship that travels at a speed greater than light, what fucking nonsense!
One thing can change everything for better or worse. Quite an entertaining read.
Fun.
