https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/334818.Miss_Rumphius
He careened through the halls on a motorcycle, racing the other children.This is Steve, one of many wonderful nurses.Nights were hard, though.
There were times when he was up all night long, crying for water, and we couldn't help him.
It felt like only Dante could have invented a hell like this.There were a very few things that could give Nathan a little relief during those endless nights.
"You must do something to make the world more beautiful." We read those words during the darkest of nights, and they would create just a very small pocket of something beautiful.
We were reminded many times how lucky we were: Nathan's problems were dire but temporary.
Beautiful concept, beautifully rendered.Beautiful.
I am giving this 4 stars mostly for Ms. Cooney's lovely illustrations. The story was pretty but not engrossing, and many children in the picture-book age group may be too restless for the rather passive account. I tended to like very active books as a kid, though! I would definitely recommend this if you or your child happen to be fond of flowers.
As I try to review the books that were read to me as a child, I come across a dilemma: I cannot review them all.
Most of the books of my childhood, even when I read them now, aren't experiences I can easily put into words.
The story is about the life of a woman called Miss Rumphius (although that's probably very obvious) and is narrarated by her great-niece.
All in all a lovely book about a woman who believed that you must do something to make the world more beautiful.
"You must do something to make the world more beautiful..." What a beautifully empowering book with gorgeous illustrations! Would love to have them framed and in my study to cheer me up daily.
It's one of my favorites.A young girl tells her grandfather that she wants to go to faraway places and when she grows up, to live beside the sea.
I absolutely loved the story and I think our girls liked it too.
Interesting tidbit: Barbara Cooney used my hometown library (see below) as the model for the picture on p.
It might be a bit of a stretch, but I like to tell our girls that the picture is based on our frequent visits to the library when I was a little girl.
My mother read me this story when I was a child and it greatly impacted and inspired me. I carry this story with me-and intend to read it to my kids. It reminds me of Maine and my favorite flower as well-and it reminds me that even the smalled action can make the world a little better!
Thanks to Goodreads friend Abigail who recommended I might continue considering giving this book a try, despite her rather lukewarm response to it and (perfectly valid) criticisms of it.
I have an additional criticism to the ones Abigail listed, but its minor, very minor, and doesn’t detract from the wonderful illustrations, which for me are the heart of the book.
I’d have been happy had this been a wordless picture book!The illustrations are incredibly lovely.
The illustrations of the cats were wonderful too.
Alice Rumphius’s grandfather is an artist and asks that she make the world a more beautiful place.
Shared with my children when they were young, now it's time to pass on the treasure of adventure, generosity, beauty, and Lupines to my grandchildren.Miss Rumphius is a delightful character, an auntie mentor for all the world's children - young and old - to encourage us all to follow our dreams, be daring and bold, travel and explore.
Then when our exploring is done, if one should choose, find a suitable place to set roots and grow; perhaps by the sea like the "Lupine Lady." But there is yet one more thing to do .
FIVE ***** Priceless is the Artist Who Follows Her Dreams and Leaves the World a More Beautiful Place ***** STARS
Beautiful story and beautiful illustrations.
I hadn't heard of Miss Rumphius before, but the cover was intriguing.This is a gentle little story about a girl who grows up with the aim of doing three things: go to faraway places, live beside the sea, and do something to make the world more beautiful.
The illustrations clearly show the progression of time, probably from the Victorian era to the "present" day (keep in mind that this was published in 1981).
Some of my favourites were Miss Rumphius working in the library, the results of her beautification project, and when she's telling her story to the next generation in a room full of reminders of her life.This is a strong picture book.
When I read this story for the first time, Miss Rumphius reminded me of my grandmother, who was then an older lady still making time to travel the world and see Egypt and other places that to me sounded mystical and exotic.
She kept her own garden in the yard of her little house in Florida, and while her flowers were nothing like those in the story of Miss Rumphius they added a small touch of beauty to the place.
The artwork in this story is itself a work towards adding beauty to the world: the soft landscapes and elegant almost Victorian figures stick in the mind years after.
It has this great life lesson, that we should do what we can to make the world a more "beautiful" place, and through her life, Miss Rumphius does all sorts of things that make the world better, happy, beautiful for others.
However, I think it's a book that really needs a lot of discussion with the adult reader for little ones, because on the surface it seems to say "make the world pretty" and doesn't explicitly acknowledge that Miss Rumphius's exchange of goodwill and love with peoples across the globe, her service as a librarian, and her storytelling to the children of the neighborhood are all ways she made the world more beautiful.
I adore this sweet little book. It’s one I use every year to introduce personal narratives. We discuss the older people in our lives and how they’ve perhaps made the the world a more beautiful place, then we consider how each of us could make the world more beautiful, too. The resulting journal entries are usually some of my favorites of the school year.
if you ever check your recommendations on goodreads, you will know that sometimes the most random books will come up.
miss rumphius is one of those books that came up for me and i decided to check and see if my library had it and was pleased to find out it did.
her great niece knows that for sure because miss rumphius told her so.
she had to figure out a way to make the world more beautiful.and so begins this lovely little story of an old lady living by the sea ♥ i don't recall ever reading this as a child but i'm sure glad that goodreads has some pretty good (albeit random) recommendations.
This is the story of Alice Rumphius, who when she was a girl told her grandfather that when she grows up she wants to go to faraway places, and when she grows old she will live beside the sea.
Her grandfather agrees, but adds "You must do something to make the world more beautiful".
Alice's life story of going to faraway places, living by the sea when she's old and beautifying the world is told to us by her great niece toward the end of Alice's life.
BEAUTIFULLY illustrated by the author, I know a few little ones in my life who will be getting this as a gift.
There's so much about this book that I like: setting long term goals, doing something for the earth, depicting a strong single female, and showing some of the changes that take place over a life span, from childhood to old age. Of course, the spread of the lupines could mean that they became an invasive weed, but I like to think that Miss Rumphius used seeds that were native to the area. In fairness, I should add that I like this book better than the kids do.
If my mom had a nickel for every time she read this story to me . . . she'd be a millionaire. That's how much I loved it. I still think it's one of the greatest books ever written, and I wouldn't be the same person I am today without it.
Wonderful. Simple. Classic. Gorgeous illustrations. Ideal for a bedtime story. Pitch perfect.
My favorite childrens' book - with a lot to teach adults too. This gorgeous book tells the story of one person's quest to make the world a better place and teaches that everyone can do something, no matter how small, to improve life for everyone else. Plus I like to think it's set in Maine, which makes it even better. Please read this book, go forth and do something to make the world a better place. Even if you do not know yet what that thing might be.
I loved this book, and it will always hold a special place in my heart. However, it's hard to still give it 5-stars now that I know lupines are invasive species and considered weeds in many countries. That rather interferes with my enjoyment.So, if you read it with your child, perhaps pair it with a lesson on invasive/native species! What NATIVE species would your child plant to beautify the world? Also, of course, we can still brainstorm other ways to make the world more beautiful...
Even as a parent reading this over and over to my children while we lived in Vermont, I was so effected by the notion that the seeds we sow are enjoyed by others far beyond our ability to comprehend, that I planted lupine seeds in our garden just to remember that small truth. Lupines don't grow here in Utah like they do back East. I miss the East coast. Sniff.
I've always loved books and even as an adult I continue to love children's books. Sometimes when I'm feeling blue re-reading them and enjoying the pictures is a particular peaceful comfort for me. Not only do I love the wonderful illustrations in this one, I think the message is profound. "Do something to make the world more beautiful."
One of my all-time favorite children's books. Delightful to read aloud, as well.
I highly recommend everyone to read this simple story especially for little girls because this book teaches you that you do not need to listen to the rules that society dictates one must accomplish instead become a better human being and contribute something to mother nature.This story is about a little girl named Alice who lives a normal life that of a girl in the early 20th century.
She lives close to the sea which is where she helps her grandfather with his painting business and at night he would tell her stories about faraway lands and opens her mind to the unlimited possibilities of the imagination.
Miss Rumphius by Barbara Cooney, Publisher: Viking Penguin Inc., 1982, 32 pages, Genre: Picture Book, Children’s Fiction, Grade: 2, Guided Reading Level: M, Lexile: 682Miss Rumphius tells the story of Alice as she grows from a young child who lives with her Grandfather to an older woman who goes by the “Lupine Lady.” The story begins with Alice and her grandfather discussing her three goals for her life: to live by the sea, to travel the world and to find a way to make the world more beautiful.
3) She must make the world more beautiful in some way.
She travels a bunch and then settles in a little house by the sea.
She wonders how to make the world more beautiful and ends up growing lots and lots of pretty flowers.I have traveled a lot and will travel more.
I don't know if I will end up living by the sea, but I will definitely live somewhere that is beautiful to me in a way that feeds the soul.
And I like to think that instead of spreading flowers, I spread books...
maybe making the world beautiful in a way.

Another favorite from our Caldecott book list! Simple, pretty, with a wonderful challenge that my kids have really taken to heart! ❤️
I love this book, for myself and my kids.
The main character resolves to spend her life traveling the world, settling down in a house by the sea, and making the world a more beautiful place.
Those ideas were instilled in her by her grandfather, who did the same.
When she gets old, she passes that down to other little kids.
So many kids' books focus on a little kid adventuring and don't highlight the importance of inter-generational relationships.
Those are important in life, and is a focus of this book.
I highly recommend this even if you're not reading to a kid!
