https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/124926.In_High_Places
With ‘In High Places’, Arthur Hailey describes the power struggle that takes place between warring political parties of Canada with each day bringing in new skirmishes and political maneuvers to haggle over.Though the Indian Lok Sabha maybe the epitome of ruckus with verbal blusters, sher-o-shayeris to woo the opposition, high theatrics when a point is not agreed to, the walkovers, the marshalling out, the general pandemonium in the house leaving an utterly helpless Speaker who hardly manages to bring the rowdy, boisterous politicians under control- it by no means is the only country in doing so.
Also, under its present immigration act, those without a country are not entitled to enter Canada.
The other thorny issue involved the Act of the union with the United States which was aimed at integrating both countries defence forces.
They firmly object the government's decision to detain and deport Mr. Duval either to his country of birth, domicile, or origin.
Through their lawyer, Alan Maitland, they file repeated motions of habeas corpus in the British Columbia Supreme Court for what they refer to as 'the illegal detention' of their client by the immigration authorities.
The issue of Immigration is fought in the British Canada Supreme Court.
Suspenseful and interesting novel about Canadian and North American politics. The book contains many details of the workings of government in Canada.
The book describes the political career of the Prime Minister of Canada James Howden,' the man whose destiny hangs on a scrap of paper' as the book summary suggests.
When I was halfway through the book, I was pretty sure that the book would make its way to my favourites, but I must say I was dissapointed by the ending of the book.
Well, I am not sure if I can call it an ending after all.
However, not regarding the ending, the book is very fantastic and a pleasure to read.
Arthur Hailey became one of my favourite authors when I read Moneychangers.
But by the end of it I found it repetitive and boring.
It was like taking a drama to the highest level, keep it there until it gets boring and then abruptly declare the end.
There is way too much time spent on Duval's story.
Also, I had not expected the story will end before Howden declares the Act of Union.
I was very much looking forward to the drama that follows.
That would have been way more interesting, including the way it affects Duval's new life.
Nevertheless, Moneychangers remains my all time favourite.
I cannot believe my brother reminded me of this stupid book yet again. The whole freaking thing was a build-up to . . . Nothing.In the end, it left me asking the question, "Why Canada? Why does it even exist? It is the ultimate build-up to nothing!!"Sigh.
Another terrific book by Arthur Hailey.This time he explores the world of politics and international relations and adds a touching story about a stateless man trying to find refuge in Canada.
A really interesting book about politics. Love Arthur Hailey's books.
The story is of Canadian politics in the early 1960s against the background of the cold war (which is heating up) and a Canadian society that struggles in establishing its identity--especially as that identity relates to the USA and to immigration.The book could not be called great literature but it is interesting.
First, the story is interesting (even if not entirely plausible) and it does draw the reader in to ask "What happens then?" More important for Canadians it gives us a reminder of who we were and what we were like in the early 1960s.
When I started reading the book, I felt the book is going to target more on domain of politics or house of prime minister than just a political drama. Owing to reading his previous books in that manner and having enjoyed it a lot, this book turning out to be a normal political drama was a great let down to me. As usual the story is very thin line,it is through situation and people that the drama gets interesting. But these kinds of books with political drama is not something new and hence there
When I started reading the book, I felt the book is going to target more on domain of politics or house of prime minister than just a political drama.
As usual the story is very thin line,it is through situation and people that the drama gets interesting.
But these kinds of books with political drama is not something new and hence there was not big surprises.
If you have not read any political drama earlier this would be a different read, if you have watched movies or books on story involving political plot it is better u can just pass through this book.
By the end of the book it becomes clear that Howden's premiership is threatened by the consequences of a pact which he makes in order to gain the party leadership.
The book talks about how even a minor issue of a country-less wannabe-immigrant, can affect both personal and professional lives of the people involved, and can have a major impact on the popularity of the government.
If you skip the boring parts, the book quite beautifully describes how people respond to a given situation and how their emotions play a big role in making decisions by looking at the bright side of the situation while rejecting, and even refusing to look at the other side.
Politics-you can't go wrong with that. Throw in a few hot topics like the Cold war, immigration, etc and you have a potboiler.Except, nothing like that happens in this book. Like his other books, Hailey brings in multiple characters that make you lose focus. Also a burning subject matter like immigration ought to have generated major interest, but somehow seems outdated.I couldn't wait to get done with it, and it was a Herculean task to not abandon the book midway
Hailey wrote best sellers back in the day. I was young and an avid reader. I read every one of them. And I thought they were great. But times change. I still loved rereading this one. But you probably won't.
Finally finished reading this narrative novel where I randomly had bought during annual book sale this spring. Not a lousy one though. Betrayal, diplomatic relations, resilience, and sympathy were shown in a great amount. But not the one to recommend to others, though.
Thought provoking I enjoyed the story with all its twists and turns but even more I enjoyed the way the story encouraged me to consider the way of po!itics. I always enjoy Arthur Hailey.
Human frailty and politicsHaley paints a vivid picture of human emotion in the large and small actions of Canadian politics. He finds a means to convince the reader that both great good and evil lie in the hearts of most if not all men.
Oldy but GoodyReally enjoyed reading this, even though by now it's very old. One of the authors earliest works, but it stands up well. The world is a very different place to the one in the book, but many aspects feel familiar.Highly recommended.
Hailey explores the world of dirty... sexy.... politics in this gripping novel.
Споменът ми за книгите на Хейли е друг. Да, знам колко добре вкарва в тематиката, но тук ми дойде в повече описателността.
For a person, who expects Politics to be as twisted as we see in House of Cards, this book might disappoint. Else, from capturing the general chameleon nature of Politics, it does a good job.
No NothingI wanted an “ending”. This left a lot of questions! I liked the suspense but I wanted an ending, even if bad!
I was leaning towards the adjective "pedestrian" to describe this book but I call it "so-so".
This is the kind of book you would want to read when you don't have access to your cellphone or laptop or friends or any other book or brochure or pamphlet.
It's not bad by any stretch of imagination.
I read this book when I was 11 years old and I was like "meh".
15 years later having totally forgotten about this book, I encountered this book again.
13 pages into this book, I was like "meh" and started checking my phone for new messages...
http://iandbooks.wordpress.com/“In High Places” was probably one of the first fictional thrillers on Government functioning that I had read.
The book is set in cold war era when Canada is facing a threat of thermonuclear war and its prime minister is trying to find options to protect his country.The main characters here are prime minister and some of his cabinet colleagues and political rivals.
As part of his negotiation with US, he is trying to have an agreement so that US will have more say in the defense of Canada and whole of North America but his political rivals will term it as giving up sovereignty of the country.
i found it ok...if you like politics than this book is for you!.
Arthur Hailey's In High Places is a political drama that keeps it real.
And keeping it real has it's consequences I guess - in that it is what you see everyday in your newspapers, only from the other side.
The book gives an insider view of the Canadian Government and it's opposition and the day to day politics that we use to dismiss it as murky.
The characters are real and their characterisation strong.
This is not the usual Hailey who makes you root for a few characters.The book is no Jeffrey Archer, but surely a very racy read!
A gripping novel.
It's the first Arthur Hailey novel that I've read, so I didn't know what to expect.
I don't think I would have read it if I hadn't found it lying around the house with other books from my mum's school days.
the reviews caught my attention and I don't regret reading it.
The scene at the end of the novel, which was supposed to be the culmination of all that had taken place throughout, was left suspended.
This was frustrating but I found that I could live with it since the events lesding up to it made for an enjoyable read.
Lots of loose threads hanging, the book needs a 2nd part to round off. What happens to the election, what happens to the Brian/Milly relationship, what happens in the US over the same bill? These and many more unanswered questions.The pace was not very fast, and not enough details to describe politics. The length of the book was comparable to his other books, but the industry under question is infinitely more complicated.
What would the United States and Canada be willing to negotiate in an effort to thwart a nuclear attack on the US by Russia? The story is from the perspective of Canada and its Prime Minister. It includes the interactions of the PMs cabinet and information about how the two party system operates in Canada, so a different perspective from most Americans. Interesting story line including the behind the scenes politics and it left me wanting to know the rest of the story. Recommended reading.
Will this book ever become a reality?If you are into politics this book is for you. The election we just went through makes this book seem more possible than it was when it was published. You see a lot of what happens in Canadian government but it also includes U.S. government too. While some of the other books that Arthur Hailey has written are more interesting this one is also good. You will have a real surprise ending.
The way it appears to me Hailey has this habit of attention to detail. In depth description of well rounded characters. What held me from giving this a 5* is the contentious issue the prime minister is dealing with. But then this was a book written at a time when the issue was pretty gripping to write about.
