https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/35729.Lover_Eternal
***spoilers past this point***In addition to containing spoilers, this is the part of the review where I will complain about the things I did not like about this book and then try to pinpoint the exact reason this series has me panting for more (that shipment from booksfree.com can’t get to my mailbox fast enough)!
I had a hard time taking either of them seriously after that point and the fact that the last portion of the book spent more energy in setting up the next installment in the series rather than in resolving the plots within its own pages also irked me to no end.
"I don't want to stop, Mary." His thumbs caressed the skin of her throat and they pressed into her jaw and angled her head back."I want to get you hot. Hot enough so you don't feel anything but me. So you don't think of anything but what I'm doing to you.I want you liquid.  I loved this book! Rhage is definitely one of the guys at the top of the BDB fav list <3 Uber-hot, and such an amazing hero! A total must-read!The storyAfter meeting a boy who looks to be a pretransitioned vampire, Bella
Mary wants to help him, so she agrees to go with him to the "training facility", not knowing it is in fact the Brotherhood's safe house.The brothers recognize him as one of their own, with a warrior name of Tehrror.On the first visit with John, Mary meets Rhage, the most beautiful man she's ever seen, who, for some reason, is drawn to her like crazy.Even though Rhage knows he can't make any commitment to a woman like Mary, he needs to have her, whatever it takes.
5 Bonding with the Beast Stars  *Spoilers*First read 2014Reread March 25, 2017"Rhage." "What?" "I'll tell you this. Your destiny's coming for you. And she's coming soon." Rhage laughed. "Oh, yeah? What's the female like? I prefer them - " "She's a virgin."-V and RhageLover Eternal the 2nd book in the BDB series is Rhage and Mary's book and a total 5 star hit for me! It was just as awesome as book one maybe a bit more awesome because there was so much Z in it and I am head over heels for Z! I don
Rhage and Mary's love was an angst filled journey to HEA.
I also love how accepting she was of Rhage( the fact that he was a vampire and had a beast).
"I'm not a man, Mary, even though parts of me look like one.
Then I want to mount you like an animal and look into your eyes as I come inside of you.
I loved the parts with Mary and the Beast.
And I love Bella because she sees what a amazing male Z is when most just look at him and see broken.
You bet!!!!!!!!A story of finding true love, making sacrifices, fighting evil, loyalty, steamy and erotic sex and devotion.Rhage is a strong, absolutely gorgeous (reason why he’s often referred to as Hollywood!!)has been cursed by the Virgin Scribe (she is the mother of all vampires) with a dragon that can only be controlled by having sex with different women and he is tired of meaningless sex and longs to find a woman he can love and be with.
The sacrifice Rhage makes to keep Mary alive is totally amazing.
Rhage’s story was nothing like I expected it to be... It was so much better!  Rhage is also known as ‘Hollywood’ to the other warriors of the BDB. He is the best looking of the bunch, and is with a different girl (or girls) every night. He is also the first one ready for a fight. But he has his reasons... He was cursed to live with ‘the beast’ for 200 years, and he has 91 years left to go. What people don’t know about Rhage is he doesn’t love using all the women, fighting all the time. It’s just
What people don’t know about Rhage is he doesn’t love using all the women, fighting all the time.
Mary knows something is different about Rhage.
Mary is hesitant to say the least, after she finds out her cancer is back, she doesn’t want to be close to anyone, and she still can’t understand why someone like Rhage would even be interested in her.
The beast wants Mary just as much as Rhage, and instead of going away like the past when he has been intimate, it comes out.
The beast likes Mary, it wants her.
Wrath has stepped up to the throne with his Queen Beth by his side, as the battle with the Lessers continues.One of the things I loved about the book is that we get to know all the brother's a whole lot better here, their unique personalities along with all their quirks, fears and flaws.
Acting as John Mathew's translator, Mary finds herself at the Brotherhood mansion where she meets Rhage.
Rhage and Mary's love story is well done, heartbreakingly sweet but also erotic as hell.
This series just gets better and better and if you like your paranormal romance than I can't recommend LOVER ETERNAL enough.
4.6 stars  “I know all about you, and everything I see is beautiful. Everything I see is mine.”“I’m not yours,” she whispered.The rejection didn’t faze him. “Fine. If I can’t have you, then you do the taking. Have all of me, part of me, a small piece, whatever you want. Just please, have something.”  Blurb: Within the brotherhood, Rhage is the vampire with the strongest appetites. He's the best fighter, the quickest to act on his impulses, and the most voracious lover-for inside him burns a fero
And while their enemies close in, Mary fights desperately to gain life eternal with the one she loves...It feels so good re-reading these books.
It’s like coming back home after a long and exhausting day.And, boy, Rhage can make me giggle like a little girl and blush like an old horny nun and Mary, sweet Mary, she’s oh so wonderful.
So I’ll try to keep my head straight and have my feeling in control.This second book in the Black Dagger Brotherhood world tells the story about Rhage and Mary and how they save each other in every possible way.
In my Dark Lover review I pointed out all the things that should have made me want to throw the book across the room in complete exasperation and utter desperation, but didn't.
He goes off to have sex with some unknown chick in a bar (he's classy like that) ← yes, people who have read this book, I know he supposedly HAS to do this (view spoiler)[personally, I would have gone and killed a few things instead, but it's his life, not mine (hide spoiler)] but that's not the point here, so lay off me.
:Phttps://www.amazon.com/Lover-Eternal-...Previous post:This is my second time reading this, and while I did skim through the Lessers sections, I am keeping my original rating.
But the romance between Rhage and Mary was still fantastic and perfect for a good PNR.If you don't like romance and get annoyed by tropes, you'll probably hate this.
And Rhage had good reasons for the way he acted before meeting Mary too.
I am much more lenient for some reason with PNR compared to regular romances and this one still works for me.I might add more later, but this is still a favorite old-school PNR comfort read for me!
:)Original post:While I wait...
4.5 starsI must say I really enjoyed this one. Only book 2 so we have a long journey to take.Rhage was great, was built like a monster but was a puppy in reality. The only thing I can’t handle is your leaving I loved HIS love for Mary. How he wasn’t afraid to shed tears.This one was sad in parts, funny in parts, romantic in parts, scary in parts. “The front door flew open, and Mary shot out of the house, jumping off the porch, not even bothering with the steps to the ground. She ran over the fro
I loved HIS love for Mary.
“The front door flew open, and Mary shot out of the house, jumping off the porch, not even bothering with the steps to the ground.
Crying so hard her whole body was shaking.He didn't ask any questions, just wrapped himself around her.I'm not okay," she said hoarsely between breaths.
"Rhage...I'm not okay.” 
“I will not fall in love with you," she said.
I'll love you enough for the both of us.” 
"Don't let that shower we took go to your head."Rhage fired a towel at the male.
5 Marvelous "Male of Worth Stars"!!!. He’s a Vampire, a Warrior, and a Dangerous Beast. His name is Rhage and he will forever own my heart.Rhage The son of a bitch actually bent the laws of physics, he was so attractive. Blond hair was cut short in the back, and left longer in the front. Teal-blue eyes were the color of Bahamas seawater. And that face made Brad Pitt look like a candidate for the Swan. Rhage is the strongest and most beautiful member of the Black Dagger Brotherhood. He’s also cur
Rhage stifles his beast and prevents it's appearance by fighting until exhaustion and fucking any female that isn't married or fertile.
And the idea of not even being a memory of yours makes me feel like I've been stabbed in the chest.Rhage was head over heals crazy for Mary.
And when the time came, she was willing to go head to head with Rhage's Beast!I love Mary and Rhage together!
Mary calmed Rhage's inner beast and provided him with comfort when he had lost hope in ever having peace!This re-read was Amazing and makes me want to pick up Zadist's book yet again!!
“I will not fall in love with you," she said. "I can't let myself. I won't.""That's all right. I'll love you enough for the both of us.” Rhages was cursed. Being in the dragon form is not what he appreciates, so he uses sex to settle it. But then Mary came to his life and changed his world. That's where the real fun begins.Rhage is hot, sexy and hilarious. I liked every quote he made. Mary has a big heart even though she knows she's going to die, she can't stop herself from being near Rhage. Th
“I will not fall in love with you," she said.
I'll love you enough for the both of us.”
Mary has a big heart even though she knows she's going to die, she can't stop herself from being near Rhage.
Crying so hard her whole body was shaking.He didn't ask any questions, just wrapped himself around her.I'm not okay," she said hoarsely between breaths.
"Rhage...I'm not okay.”
And the ending was like a knife stabbed through my heart.J.R. Ward has her signature to move her the story.
By the way, I loved to see how these conflicts would unfold in the end.
Rhage and MaryRhage fell in love with Mary’s voice, when they met for fist time.
She is not like the girls that Rhage and his beast usually prefer.
A huge extremely good-looking guy who eats like a horse and who wants to keep her just to hear her voice.
Plain Mary does not know what Rhage wants from her.
She asks him to leave her alone, she begs him to leave her alone, she orders him to leave her alone.Rhage is still there!And then Mary will have another problem.
R – restlessH – “Hollywood”A – alphaG - gorgeousE - eternalI love that feeling when you start to panic while reading a book because you DON'T know how the story can end on a happy note.
And then as your walking through the grocery store you make your 17 old daughter listen to you go on and on about how he's a vampire and she's a human and what will happen to him when she dies because she's a mortal.
Nicknamed "Hollywood." Lover Eternal (#2)Zsadist: has a twin, Phury.
Lover Unbound (#5)Phury: Zsadist's twin brother and loyal to his brother.
4 HAPPY-SWOONY-VAMPIRE STARS!!!!Review edited on 11/22/2013 after re-read.This is re-read because I can't get enough of the The Beast!!!!My Rhage:A special Thank You to Irene for letting me steal her Rhage. He's just so perfect!My Mary: It would have been great, just once, to have a man stare at her with total adoration. To have him be…enthralled. Yes, that was the word. She would have loved for a man to be enthralled by her.  “I will not fall in love with you," she said. "I can't let myself. I
She would have loved for a man to be enthralled by her.
Rhage (aka Hollywood and BDB funny man) is a self-centered player who has been cursed for 200 years with a beast inside himself that he struggles to control.
The first time Rhage hears Mary’s voice, it calms his inner beast.
But it is difficult for Mary to believe that Rhage feels anything for her, so she pushes him away.
It was wonderful seeing how Rhage could get Mary to soften towards him.
I love Rhage (and his beast!)!
Every woman needs a man with an inner beast!
From the main character Mary to the Scribe Virgin's Chosen, the female characters only find some confidence when a man deems them worthy.
Although technically not a Brother, I loved seeing Butch settling into place and his hopes to do more for the BDB.My one big gripe with the Brothers is the illogical adoption of gangsta culture.
I'd hoped the background story of the Scribe Virgin, the Omega and the lessers would be enough to pick up the slack, but Ward's world has almost zero development outside the Brothers' door.
The plot was captivating and I never experienced a boring moment while reading!
This book is about Rhage and Mary and their relationship.
Their relationship was bumpy from start but that's what kept me interesting.
I was actually surprised that Rhage "cheated" on Mary after he professed his love for her.
Mary's character development was so interesting and well written.
:OI also loved how this book started uncovering Zsadist's and Bella's relationship!
I cannot wait to read about that in the third book!!Overall, I definitely recommend this book (and the series) to readers that love romance and fantasy/vampires!!
Who knew that a womanizing warrior like Rhage could love someone like Mary.
What I also loved was the fact that Mary was a little hesistant with Rhage.
Mary and Rhage just may be my favourite couple of the BDB so far.
Thank the Virgin Scribe for her compassionate heart, that's all I have to say.
This book is truly a happily ever after, and it couldn't have happened to a better couple.Favourite Quote: Butch came around in front, twisting his shirt he'd taken off into a rope.
Thanks to all the lifting they'd been doing, the male's chest and arm muscles were thickening up, and he hadn't been small to begin with.
I am really kinda speechless after reading this book.
Saying that I LOVED IT is kinda putting it mildly.
For such a bad-ass, he was so tender and loving with Mary.
When Mary finally breaks down in front of Rhage, I literally had to put the book down and wipe my eyes for several minutes.
It is just the total package all around.Gosh between Wrath and Rhage I don't know which one I liked the best.
Now I am off to read Z's story...I have a feeling I will like this one too!
5 HEARTBREAKING, SWEET, AND I-CAN'T-BELIEVE-THIS-IS-HAPPENING STARS.This is me after finishing Dark Lover... Jesus Christ! What just happened? I'm shocked of how many feelings this book got out of me.  Meet my Rhage.  Movie-star BEAUTIFUL.The most DANGEROUS of the brothersCURSED with a deadly creatureHe meets Mary... A SURVIVOR of many hardshipsPossesses a LIFE-THREATENING CURSE of her ownHOPELESS. And while their enemies close in, Mary fights desperately to gain life eternal with the one she lo
Movie-star BEAUTIFUL.The most DANGEROUS of the brothersCURSED with a deadly creatureHe meets Mary...
THE MAIN CHARACTERS.Let me start by saying Mary was really annoying me most of the time.
She was constantly pushing Rhage away and he didn't even deserve it (well, maybe once or twice).She was hurting him and because i love my darling Rhage so much, i wanted to hurt her too (which isn't a good thing).But then she got a bit better, and i felt more connected to her.I liked her more.Rhage.., 
Now coming from me that's saying something because i never cry reading books or watching movies ( that REALLY rarely happens).
Rhage and The Beast --- 4.5 StarsWarning...Gif-Partial Nudity(view spoiler)[  (hide spoiler)]Wow! I loved Rhage’s story!  There’s so much that can be said but has already been stated much better by others in their reviews. Here are just a few of my thoughts and feelings.Rhage - The Brothers call him Hollywood. Towering well over six feet eight, stronger than all the other warriors, all hard well endowed muscle, this vampire is flat-out drop-dead gorgeous! Pure - Walking- Desire! A sex legend in
What I liked the most about her is how she stepped up for Rhage, going deep inside to his pain and her fight for him.Throughout most of the book I could not see how this could have a happy ending.
I held my breath and nearly shouted from relief in the next chapter!There are so many things I liked about Rhage and Mary’s story.
I love intense alpha warriors and Rhage certainly is all that and more.
One of the best and most tender love scenes I’ve ever read is Rhage and Mary’s first time together.
Five "Holy...Wow" Stars  "The musical lilt of her voice, the rhythm of her speech, the sound of her words, it all speed through him, calming him, comforting him."  "He was blond. Movie-star beautiful.""His eyes were an electric teal blue, so bright, so vivid....God he really was beautiful." ~ Mr Hollywood...  Rhage ♥ Swoon ♥  "...an erotic legend in his race."So the second book in the Black Dagger Brotherhood; Rhage & Mary's story.....WOW & WOW.A.M.A.Z.I.N.G.I can't begin to explain ever
Then I want to mount you like an animal and look into your eyes as I come inside you.
I want to take you every way there is."
Wowza..it was smoking hot in places....This book has left me feeling like a ball of warm fuzz after taking me through so many emotions, my heart is fit to burst!!
**Epic BR with the lovely vixen, pink lady vamps ♥Sharing the love & passion of the BDB with ALL the lovely ladies makes reading these books extra special ♥ ♥ ♥*The dragon picture was drawn by my gorgeous husband in 1990!!
I know that many of the fans favor Rhage from the Black Dagger Brotherhood series.
And although it is not my first read, and I really tried, but still, I failed to like him, or his story.
Of course, in time they get over this...Mary’s behaviour is understandable because of her disease, and she is a strong and courageous character, but has irritating moments as well.
I'm not saying I hated the main characters but I was disappointed.I liked- John Matthew’s storyline!
Really terrifying.- Mary’s scene with the beast.- More and more information of the world and traditions of the vampires, and of the Brotherhood.- Bella and Zsadist.
Rhage had learned the hard way to temper himself and to show self-control, and along comes the one female who makes that even harder than it's ever been.The Beast itself was such an interesting idea to the story, and risky.
Zsadist as before got my attention and stole my heart and had me on a high as I saw the genesis of his story and where it goes (he stole the book away from poor Rhage the first go around, to be honest).
When Rhage comes along, she doesn't have anything left to believe that a gorgeous guy like that could want to be with her.
WHO AM I? Where is the Jess that hated the first book in this series? Oh, I know where she is. She's in the man dungeon, with Rhage, learning how wrong about things she was. Rhage. Hubba hubba.   "I know all about you, and everything I see is beautiful. Everything I see is mine.""I'm not yours.""Fine. If I can't have you, then you do the taking. Have all of me, part of me, a small piece, whatever you want. Just please, have something."  Seriously, this book? Blew the first one out of the water.
Where is the Jess that hated the first book in this series?
She's in the man dungeon, with Rhage, learning how wrong about things she was.
Seriously, this book?
(hide spoiler)]And I side-eyed the hell out of some things, but I was able to let most of it go and just enjoy this for what it was.
"I'm not a man, Mary, even though parts of me look like one.
Then I want to mount you like an animal and look into your eyes as I come inside of you.
I want to take you every way there is.
I want to do you from behind.
I expected to be disappointed with this but I wasn't. Not even one bit!!! And I'm screaming because Rhage is my favorite brother and hell yes his book was freaking great. I admit I had a love/hate relationship with Mary, but my intense love for Rhage and the fact that I binge read this in less than 24 hours (I stayed till 3 am to finish this, gosh, I regret my life choices) makes me ignore Mary.NOW GIVE ME ZSADIST'S BOOK. I ABSOLUTELY CAN'T WAIT.
This story in the series focuses on Rhage and his love Mary.Rhage is known as "Hollywood".
(view spoiler)[Rhage is so worried that the beast is going to unleash if he truly gives himself to Mary that he hooks up with someone while Mary is waiting at home in his bed.
(hide spoiler)]Mary and Rhage have so much to overcome.
“I will take none but you.” Mary wrapped her legs around his hips, trying to have him so far inside that he could stay with her forever."I loved every second of this book!
This series is fantastic and Rhage and Mary's story will stay with me forever.
*in a tiny tiny voice* I *gulp* seriously gave Dark Lover, the first book in the Black Dagger Brotherhood series, umm, one star.
I barely liked the romance, so the one star.
But now, after contemplating that I am abnormal since after the 12,552 people who rated Dark Lover, I go straight to the 1% who didn’t like it.
However, I don’t like being abnormal.
And seriously, my apologies for not liking the first book of the series.
Rhage is not just smoking hot, but he’s sweet and dedicated as well.Hmm, but why did I not give this book five stars?
But why did I seriously like it?

I'm so late to the BDB series, that there's really nothing left for me to say about this book, LOL.Anyway, here's my two cents...I loved Rhage, and that's saying a lot considering that (view spoiler)[he had sex with another woman even though he was already in love with Mary. That should have made me yell "cheater" at the top of my lungs (hide spoiler)] but, due to some miraculous writing by Ms. Ward, it only made me feel sorry for him. I think I even forgave him before Mary did. What was "wrong
I'm so late to the BDB series, that there's really nothing left for me to say about this book, LOL.Anyway, here's my two cents...I loved Rhage, and that's saying a lot considering that (view spoiler)[he had sex with another woman even though he was already in love with Mary.
But she truly loved Rhage, so I guess that was okay.Regarding the overall story, the UF vibe that I first felt in Dark Lover was present in this book too, and it's starting to bother me.
Rhage and Mary's love story was beautiful though, and that's what really matters to me.
