https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/8148.Lectures_on_Literature
At first I was wary of this book, being a former grad student and current exile from the literary academy with no interest in rejoining those stale debates.
But what a breath of fresh air it proved to be.
Nabokov was, not surprisingly, a keen reader, and he brings all his technical prowess to bear on works from Dickens, Austen, Flaubert, and others.
He has the gift of entering a work on its own terms and bringing it to life, not deadening it with some inane theory.
I read these lectures alongside the books they describe, and I found them delightfully illuminating.
“A writer might be a good storyteller or a good moralist, but unless he be an enchanter, an artist, he is not a great writer.” I have always wanted to know Nabokov the reader – who hates allegories (say Animal Farm), novels where characters act are just what mouth pieces for different kind of opinions (Magic Mountain - not a fan either), moral tales (can’t agree more), allusions to other works and signs and symbolisms unless they are directly related (not a fan either), sentimental readings (ch
I have always wanted to know Nabokov the reader – who hates allegories (say Animal Farm), novels where characters act are just what mouth pieces for different kind of opinions (Magic Mountain - not a fan either), moral tales (can’t agree more), allusions to other works and signs and symbolisms unless they are directly related (not a fan either), sentimental readings (chick-lit romances) and finds detective novels boring (because of their poor prose).On AllegoriesIt is his dislike of allegories including those like Animal Farm which shocked me.
I did not read all of the lectures, but instead only those for the books I had already read.
I can assume that a lot of us are familiar with Nabokov's ornate style, but here he is technical and has eased into the professorial role.
His approach is meticulous, but also one focused on defining or at least describing a book's aesthetics and its details.
Nabokov plucks apart narrative threads, and neatly defines what each great author has in their 'style'.
Nabokov's lectures are a true literary pleasure.
This took me several years to read, and I was very pleased with the way my approach to the lectures worked out.
Having listened to very learned lectures on Literature as an undergraduate-- but laboring under the frequent interwoven influences of marijuana daze and 'haven't-quite-read-the-book-in-question' handicaps ...I took Mr. Nabokov's course, in the nineties.
Youth, as we all know, is wasted on the young, and who can read books when there are other distractions that are catnip to the undergraduate...
? Take the challenge, take the course, read the books, go back to square one.
This volume covers seven novels - Mansfield Park, Bleak House, The Strange Case of Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde, The Walk by Swann's Place (aka "Swann's Way"), The Metamorphosis (Kafka), and Ulysses.
In each case, Nabokov's erudition and unapologetic perspectives offer the reader a way to dig deeper into these classics.
Time permitting, I'm looking forward to rereading these novels along with Nabokov's lectures nearby.In a short essay at the beginning of the book, Nabovkov writes:There are three points of view from which a writer can be considered: he may be considered as a storyteller, as a teacher, and as an enchanter.
N has clearly read Ulysses dozens of times, he's picked up on all of the subtle little coincidences and themes and chains of events that line the novel, and he imparts this wisdom to the first-time reader.And that's really the core of all of these lectures.
N believed that great novels should be read many times, and only on repeat readings do you pick up on the little things that provide the type of joy that he feels is the true purpose of literature.
به نام اوپیش از این کتاب کتاب درس گفتارهای ادبیات روس را خوانده بودم که واقعا اثر خوبی بود و حکایت از ذوق و در عین حال دقت بالای ناباکف در مواجهه با اثر ادبی داشت، خصوصا قسمت مربوط به آناکارنینا که تقریبا نیمی از کتاب را به خودش اختصاص داده بود.من از درسگفتارهای اروپایی فقط پروست و فلوبر را خواندم که این کتاب هم مانند آن کتاب به نکات مهمی در رابطه با این دو شاهکار ادبی اشاره کرده بود.
Benim acı ve hayal kırıklığı yüklü Madame Bovary'm meğer hiciv dolu bir esermiş, bunu Nabokov'dan öğrendim.
(Sayfalarını bir çiçeğin yaprakları gibi açtı önüme, diyeyim de belki sevgili Flaubert'in hoşuna gider =P) Önce kim bilir okuduğum diğer klasiklerde neleri kaçırıyorumdur diye düşündüm.
Eh, her eserin dedektifliğini yapan bir başka eser okumak da, nasıl desem, hangi yazar ister ki böyle okuru?
Belki de bütün bunlar Nabokov'un aşırıyorumudur, dedim sonra, bu kıvrak zekalıyı bu kadar ciddiye almamak gerek.
Ama bilirsiniz, bazen bir eser hakkında yazılan metin, eserin kendisinden de iyi olabiliyor.
Nabokov da bu kitapta adı geçen ustalarla kapışır bence.
Se fossi stata una studentessa di Nabokov mi sarei innamorata dopo due secondi
Nabokov wasn't just a brilliant and playful writer--he was also an excellent reader, even in a language which he pretended not to know very well.
But for the two that I do know--Jane Austen and Charles Dickens--Nabokov is brilliant.
He is precise and very fair to Jane Austen, even though her interests are not his own; but his real kinship is with Dickens.
He compares Dicken's description of the sea with a similar passage in Mansfield Park, and Jane Austen comes off much the worse (although to be fair, describing nature was not Austen's forte.) It is wonderful to share the pleasures of careful reading with such a sensitive and witty companion.
for a split second, this made me nostalgic for college. then i recovered my senses.
Much of this lecture is a simple description of the work, scene by scene, and Nabokov spennds some time noting how Kafka's work is so much better than Stevenson's work discussed above.
Nabokov notes how this tragedy has positive elements--a family finally getting its act together even as it abandons Gregor--and illustrates Kafka's style.
Of the latter, Nabokov says (Page 283): "You will mark Kafka's style.
Overll, this is an intellectually exciting book, as one learns how a literary critic from one critical perspective examining a series of works--Austen, Dickens, Flaubert, Stevenson, Proust, Kafka, and Joyce.
«همیشه چیزها در خانه طور دیگری است. موطنِ کهنهٔ انسان، اگر با آگاهی در آن زندگی کند، با آگاهی کامل نسبت به بستگیها و وظیفههایش در برابر دیگران، همیشه تازه است. انسان در واقع تنها از این راه، از راهِ بستگی هاست که آزاد میشود..» گفتگو باکافکا، اثر گوستاو یانوش
«همیشه چیزها در خانه طور دیگری است. موطنِ کهنهٔ انسان، اگر با آگاهی در آن زندگی کند، با آگاهی کامل نسبت به بستگی‌ها و وظیفه‌هایش در برابر دیگران، همیشه تازه است. انسان در واقع تنها از این راه، از راهِ بستگی هاست که آزاد می‌شود..» گفتگو باکافکا، اثر گوستاو یانوش
I've read his lecture on 'Du côté de chez Swann' and the section on being a 'good reader', with which I already was familiar.
I'll read the lecture on 'Ulysses' next.If you are reading or have read any of the novels discussed, you may want to deepen your knowledge with the help of Nabokov's opinions, which sometimes are truly 'strong opinions'.
He cites many passages from the original text and explains connotations within the book, uncovers some hidden details.
Speaks about colours.
Speaks about composition.
Don't expect many details about the authors itself, or the times they wrote in.
I definitely appreciate style (Nabokov is one of my favorite authors because of style!), but I am also drawn to literature that, as an old friend once put it, "makes me feel some feelings." Another aspect of his lectures I disliked was their heavy plot focus, but I loved his drawings of city blocks and residences!I will briefly provide my experience of each of the lectures:Mansfield Park: I'm glad I read this lecture because it reminded me of why I dislike Jane Austen novels.
"...En cierto modo, todos estamos sufriendo una caída mortal desde lo alto de nuestro nacimiento a las losas del cementerio, y nos vamos maravillando con la inmortal Alicia ante los dibujos de la pared.Esta capacidad de asombro ante fruslerías —sin importarnos la inminencia del peligro—, estos apartes del espíritu, estas notas a pie de página del libro de la vida, son las formas más elevadas de la conciencia;y es allí, en este estado mental infantil y especulativo, tan distinto del sentido común y de la lógica, en donde sabemos que el mundo es bueno.
Para leer, releer, y volver a leer.
But there is much more to Nabokov, who was a professor of literature at Cornell University and a visiting lecturer at a number of other universities, including Harvard, where he delivered a wonderful set of lectures on Don Quixote, unfortunately out of print but available from libraries or second hand bookstores.His Lectures on Literature is a collection of lectures on an eclectic group of writers -- Austen, Dickens, Flaubert, Stevenson, Proust, Kafka, and Joyce.
But he does justice to each of them, enriching the reading of these authors.
This was my pilot though my first reading of Ulysses. And I cherish the lecture on Madame Bovary.
"The isms go; the ist dies; art remains."The above is quoted directly from this book and in particular is a comment made in reference by Nabokov on Flaubert's Madam Bovary.This expresses a thought I have had for decades, but lack Nabokov's brilliance eloquence.The scattered gems that sparkle throughout this book are what kept me reading.And now I know that the preceding is a hackneyed image, and why it is a ...What might you be looking for that would bring you to this collection of lectures?Like me, you want to view literature from inside the mind of a favorite writer.You are a serious student of the written word and open to advice on how to read.You have been assigned a paper on one or more of the following:Jan Austin's Mansfield ParkCharles Dickens's Bleak HouseRobert Louis Stevenson's The Strange Case of Dr. Jekyll and Mr. HydeMarcel Proust's The Walk by Swan's WayFranz Kafka's The MetamorphosisJames Joyce's UlyssesIn other words this is not a book that will appeal to many readers.
Nabokov teaches readers about various elements in literature using seven novels familiar to many. The reader need not have read the particular novels to understand the points made about language, structure, theme, style, innovation etc, by the authors of the novels. Nabokov's careful analysis points a reader toward doing their own analyses of what they read and why these novels gain the imagination of readers long enough to last through the question of time. Very interesting and easy to read.
Thematically the poem fits well with Lolita, so I started my search there.While scouring Alfred Appel's annotations I came across a number of notes discussing references in Lolita to works by Joyce which I had never quite picked up on before.
We are told that though Nabokov had met Joyce relatively early on in his career (some time in the 1930's) - Nabokov did not get around to reading Joyce until the expiration of his Russian period, after which, he assures us, he had already matured as a writer to the point of being immune to outside influence.These notes and a burbling fascination with the Nabokovian/Joycean interplay brought me back to this title, Lectures on Literature, and in particular the 80-plus page essay on Ulysses.
But that's quite off topic.In conclusion, read Nabokov's Lectures on Literature because of Goethe's "Erlkönig."
This was really fun, mostly because I like Nabokov and reading about his thoughts on classic pieces of literature was great. One of the most valuable aspects of this book is that it contains images of his personal notes from his lecture copies.
Zuerst war ich verwundert aber nach der Lektüre dieser längeren Erzählung kann ich die Wahl gut verstehen.
Diese Vorlesung ist eine sehr ausführliche Darstellung des Textes mit sehr wenigen Deutungsversuchen und Testauslegungen.
Nabokov schreibt gleich in der Einleitung über Madame Bovary: "Von allen Märchen in dieser Vorlesungsreihe ist Flauberts Madame Bovary das romantischste.
30.06.2016 Franz Kafka Die Verwandlung Nabokov kniet vor Kafka und dieser Erzählung (und ich mit ihm).
02.07.2016 James Joyce Ulysses - Ulysses kannte ich ja bereits und mit Nabokov nochmals durch den Roman zu wandeln war sehr aufschlussreich.
15.07.2016 Nabokovs Vortrag: Die Kunst der Literatur und der Normalverstand - Großartiger Text.
Leer este libro ha sido una gran experiencia para mí, en él está plasmado todo el amor de Nabokov por los libros, por el arte que ocultan, por las maravillosas capacidades encantadoras de los escritores y la pasión que cada uno de ellos pone por sus obras.
Pero incluso si no las han leído, Nabokov te lleva de la mano y es imposible perderse en sus explicaciones, porque te presenta los textos y deja que busques lo que él ve en ellos.
Read this book and join Nabokov for a typically droll, dry, witty take on some classics of European lit.
I would not have let the girl near!"On Madame Bovary: "...adultery being a most conventional way to rise above the conventional."On Joyce: "Indeed, in verbal generosity he is a veritable Santa."Great contrast: "Joyce takes a complete and absolute character, God-known, Joyce-known, then breaks it up into fragments and scatters these fragments over the space-time of the book.
On the other hand, Proust contends that a character, a personality, is never known as an absolute but always as a comparative one."
It's not an easy read if you haven't read the books that he's discussing, and even if you have read them in the past, it's a little dry to read about the structural aspects of Bleak House six years after you've read Bleak House (that said, I've never read "The Metamorphosis" but I had no problems getting through that section).
What this book really boils down to is a discussion of Nabokov's feelings about reading, about how to be a good reader, about what it means to really ingest a book.


Nabokov is a much better reader than writer, probably the best reader of his time with Bloom trailing behind. He makes me really want to read every book he is writing about. His notes on ulysses are really helpful, especially as he recommends totally ignoring the Homeric parallels and skimming the third chapter.
From sifting agents to synchronising agents, Nabokov's 2 cents on Literature are worth more than a thousand dollars. The envoi, and the two essays ('Good Readers and Good Writers', 'The Art of Literature and Commonsense') make up the icing on the cake.
