https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/22369.All_Star_Superman_Vol_1
Okay, other than Frank Quitely giving Supes the physique of a championship bowler, this book wasn’t bad. It certainly was NOT the loathsome, Batman persona-raping shit bomb that All-Star Batman & Robin the Boy Wonder, Volume 1 was (I still haven’t forgiven you for that Frank Miller). I think that Grant Morrison did a good job capturing the essential, archetypal “goodness” of Superman in this homage/tribute/restoration of the icon of icons. Still, this was a swing and a miss for me...though
I'm currently half way through Grant Morrison’s Supergods: What Masked Vigilantes, Miraculous Mutants, and a Sun God from Smallville Can Teach Us about Being Human, a full-length non-fiction book on the history of the comic book superhero and I....LOVE...the way this guy writes.
Don’t get me wrong, the writing is fine, but reading this and then immediately switching to Supergods: What Masked Vigilantes, Miraculous Mutants, and a Sun God from Smallville Can Teach Us about Being Human is like alternating between Dan Brown to Dickens...jarring to say the least.
3. The black kryptonite story...Hells NO...and no again...bad idea...nuff said.
Batman is about loving Batman, and while there is a rich, dark world that lies within, you wouldn't really have that amazing staring-at-the-universe moment that superhero comics can, through their ham-fisted hopefulness, let bloom within you.It would be equally folly to recommend Watchmen, or Zot!, or Starman, or Powers,or Astro City, or any of the other post-modern superhero fare that gets offered up as "gateway comics" for the uninitiated, like it makes any sense at all to foster the incredulous joy of superhero comics through an analytical back door, in which the mechanics of how the genre works are stripped and enjoyed, at best, as meta-fiction.
4.5 starsThis is what I would recommend to someone who is not a fan of Superman. Morrison manages to take all of the things that make Superman such an iconic character, and turn it into a great story.
But I was curious, and anything had to be better than Frank Miller's All-Star Batman.
At least you seem to understand Superman's character, in a way that Miller no longer understands Batman's and has never understood Superman's.
But I thought the point of these All-Star books was supposed to be in presenting these iconic characters without all of the backstory getting in the way.
I'm pretty sure I don't want to know.
It all felt very retro, in a way, right down to Superman's Girlfriend Lois Lane getting superpowers for a day.
I know that's his style, but everybody just looks so round.
5.5 stars!!!  Introduction:  Now, I have a little confession to make (I seem to be making so many book confessions lately, right)? I had only read a few “Superman” comics over the years, which included “Superman: Whatever Happened to the Man of Tomorrow” and “Superman: Secret Identity.” The reason why I have not read that many “Superman” comics was not because I hate Superman (I actually really like his character), but it was hard for me to look for some recommendations for good “Superman” stor
One of the “Superman” stories that was always highly recommended to me was Grant Morrison’s run on “Superman” called “All-Star Superman.” At first, I was a bit hesitant about checking this series out because from what I had heard from some comic book fans, Grant Morrison’s works tend to jump off the deep end at a certain point in his stories and I had experienced that with his work on “Batman R.I.P.” However, after I finally decided to dive into this graphic novel, I now see why this particular graphic novel was so highly recommended to me and I have to say that “All-Star Superman Volume One” is one of the best “Superman” stories I had ever read!
I've had this Comic for *ages* without reading it-& I should've read it sooner, as it's really good.
The artworks nice-Retro mixed with modern with a good amount of detail when needed.However, what let it down a bit for me was the way that Clark Kent/Superman himself was drawn sometimes.
As this massive, thick necked/Jawed man, that was even more obviously not human {So, Superman} than what we're used to!
:P I just wasn't feeling that & it kept distracting me from everything else...But aside from that, a really good read.
When this guy that I work with, Tyler, hands me Grant Morrison's All-Star Superman.
you know: Krypton, Clark Kent, Phonebooths, Lois Lane, Smallville, Lex Luthor...
But, I had never wanted to read a Superman comic before.
For the most part, the rest of the comic revolves around Superman coming to terms with his death, preparing the world for a Superman-less future, and trying to convince Lois Lane that he's been Clark Kent all along (she doesn't believe him...).
And, I do not know for sure (this is just a guess), but I think Morrison really added some arcane bits of Superman's past for the real fans, too.
Morrison is a great comic book writer, but he has a few obvious flaws that can make his work difficult to digest, and have always kept him from reaching the same heights as Alan Moore.All-Star Superman, while using the same deconstructed narrative and mind-blowingly bizarre gift of invention that are his trademarks, manages to overcome those limitations and essentially create the platonic ideal of what a Superman story should be.In twelve issues this series manages to truly show how an epic story can be told about a man who cannot be hurt by normal means.
It unflinchingly goes from silly to hardcore sci-fi, all with a strong emotional undercurrent that drives everything forward.It's not perfect, and I still found myself wondering what the hell he was talking about from time to time, but the whole is far greater than the sum of its parts.
I keep wanting to like Superman, to find those epic stories that boil him down to the essentials and show why people love him so much.
Atlas and Sampson's pissing match over Lois, let me puke), which only buries the nicer moments.Also, I have never, ever liked Quitely's art.
Too many potato faces and giant bodybuilder necks.
Why the neck as thick as his head, Quitely?
And if you know of any other Superman stories I should be reading, please share, I will happily check them out.
One day I will understand Superman.
One day.
How do I rave without giving everything away or repeating what others have already said? This is Morrison at his best and most focused. It's still out there, sometimes "cerebral," funny, wacky. But it's mostly charming, classic, and true. This is how I think about Superman, omnipotent yet vulnerable, strong yet sensitive. And Clark Kent steals every scene he's in like a chubby Dick Van Dyke. Very well done. Looking forward to Volume 2 and then buying the whole in a collective hardcover edition.
Let it not be said that throughout my history of reading comics I have not given Superman and his creative teams ample opportunity to make me a fan.
So, in a last ditch effort to find value of some sort in the character, I turned to Grant Morrison and Frank Quitely, authors of the decently emotionally affecting We3.
I'm certain I've enjoyed some stories more than they may have objectively deserved when Spider-Man was the central focus due to my fondness for the cast and mythology of the character.
Fans of Superman may very well enjoy the hell out of this.
It’s like when they sat down to write this superman book they decided to explore x number of stories and themes and in the end all those themes and stories didn’t flow with each other in the amount of allotted pages they were given.
If that were the case then I would say we saw an issue of Action Comics, Superman’s Girl friend Lois Lane, Superman’s Pal Jimmy Olsen, Superman and an issue of Superboy.
I guess if I look at it that way I could say I got five different superman stories with only a little bit of overlap of plot in each one.
Too much hard to follow techno-jurgons and incomprehensible weird sci-fi elements to enjoy the Superman-adventures properly, and all the episodes felt rather disjointed and scattered instead of a firmly connected chronological development of a single plot.
But the characterizations were much more up to the mark than the plots and in the short span of each episodes they worked perfectly, detailing classic supporting characters like Lex Luthor, Lois Lane and Jimmy Olsen's true motivations and inner driving forces, and of course Superman himself.
Fortunately, I've read Morrison's We3, where he lets Quitely's art do what it's supposed to do: tell the story--so I expected to see as much here.
Secondly, Morrison's approach to this series pleased me, as he stated in the planning stages, that he did not want to rehash Superman's origin story, yet again.
I love the way Morrison/Quitely really play up the concept of mind over matter, letting even the most intuitive minds only see what they want to see.
I keep saying that I want a well-written Superman story that helps me to appreciate the character, even though I may never like him.
The artwork was pretty good but not exactly my cup of tea.
The dialogue was good, and the characters were somewhat interesting.
Like it didn't distract from the plot.I don't really have much to say about this because it didn't stand out to me.
I don't find Superman a compelling character, but I can see how Superman fans would be into this.
The contrast between Clark and Superman was very striking in this volume, which I found interesting.
I guess this is classic Superman.
If you're a Superman fan, I'm pretty sure you will like this.
An absolutely fantastic read as Grant Morrison takes the character back to his roots and 50's nostalgia.
I have a friend who's trying to convince me that I'm giving short shrift to Supes over...a lot of other superhero characters.
This despite the fact that I am, to those who know me, more of a horror/noir/crime reader.
I barely *like* them, unless the uplift comes up out of some verifiable muck.
The one Supes story that I *love* is the Judd Winick story, Superman/Shazam: First Thunder--which fits the bill exactly, IMO.So I can't say that I *love* this book.
In fact it was a bit cheesy for me, or rather the wrong kind of cheesy for me.
This is so good.
SO GOOD.When Morrison and Quitely are together, they really are masterful storytellers.
Morrison is a wordsmith in his dialogue and plots out each issue so they're perfectly paced.
Quitely is one of those artists whose work you have to spend that little extra time looking at to fully appreciate it.
Morrison doesn't restrain him.
He lets him do his best work.
Side Note:If the Man of Steel film left you with a bad taste in your mouth, and you need a good Superman story to get over the shock: this is what you need to read.
I found this one really underwhelming relative to all the hype.
"All Star Superman" is writer Grant Morrison’s love letter to all things Superman and to the superhero genre as a whole.
After making a career out of deconstructing the genre, this is a completely optimistic look at why we love superheroes.
There’s Superheroics.
I just love what a calming presence he is on each page.This is an important touch, since this is also a book that shows us that The Big Blue Boy Scout’s greatest power isn’t the ability to leap tall buildings, outrun a train or take a bullet point blank with no damage.
"All Star Superman" is a book that makes us believe that anything is possible, because as Superman says:"It's never as bad as it seems.
So Superman flies to save the day, but in the process he has absorbed too much energy and now he's dying.The second chapter delves a bit more in this problem, but after that it's just scene after scene nothing making any sense, not alone or together.In the end it's difficult to say what the story is about.
In a way the art represents the story quite well: it's inconsistent, empty and at the same time the characters are built to look like model men and women.
Some of the stories in here were better than others, which brings me to the true rant of this review: The Lois Lane story.
Spoilers for that story a coming.So imagine you're really into Superman and he's super into you so for your birthday he creates a bottle of his super powers that you can drink and then gain them for 24 hours.
Carry really heavy things, go to the moon, have super awesome super sex with Superman?
If you're Lois Lane then no to all of that...
And then you'll have dinner under the ocean with Superman and fall asleep like an exhausted toddler.More like Lois LAME, am I right?
This is one of the better comics I have read in quite some time.
Morrison can get pretty heady sometimes but this is really a love story to the Silver Age Superman.
Sort of like Moore's "Whatever happened to the Man of Tomorrow" it takes all the crazy silver age stuff (the key to the fortress, Jimmy Olsen's signal watch and crazy identities, etc, etc, etc) and turns it on it's head and makes it work.
His Clark Kent is AMAZING and you can truly believe that no one would think he is Superman.
Add in a truly terrifying Luthor and you have a great comic.
Am not quite sure where I fall on this. Some of it displays signs of brilliance bit there a there are a few meh moments which I'll touch on in a TFF review. Some characters had great art for them (Lois, Clark and a couple of others) but I didn't like the artwork for the front cover nor the weird purple alien (not a big Superman fan so not too sure on this character, the other not-quite Superman Supermen, Luthor and Jimmy Olsen. But the story was strong and I may stick around for Vol.2.
This was my second time reading, and I am raising the rating from 3-4 stars. I think I'm doing that because I've read lots of Morrison/Quitely team ups, and I think the art is a bonus as opposed to a liability when I first read it. Also, I really like the ideas here that are pushing the boundaries of what Superman has always been, expanding into new territory or further exploring things just touched on elsewhere.Strongly recommended.
EL ISSUE 6, DIOS MIOOOOOOO. 1-5 estuvieron bien, culs. Pero el 6. El 6.
But then, on one level this book is a celebration of the crazy 1960s Superman stories, even explicitly revisiting some of their tropes (e.g. the old chestnut of Lois trying to figure out Superman's identity; characters temporarily getting weird powers or suffering some bizarre transformation before the reset button is pushed--three times in this volume alone--Lex Luthor's bizarre and ingenious plots to destroy Superman, etc).
One of the things that often bothers me when it comes to heroes like Flash and Superman is the idea that they should never be able to rest, aren't crimes and unpleasant things always happening somewhere in the world?
But this is not the book to consider that - perhaps Kingdom Come is a better platform for that topic.There is much more to the series of course - it is intended to help us feel hope as against our society's failings (see here) - although it is a bit more subtle in its criticism.
I figured it is about damn time to read what people call the ultimate Superman book.The tale concocted for us by Grant Morrison boils the man of tomorrow down to his basics.
It makes him and his surrounding cast of characters more human and real than ever.Obviously this book also includes the sillier and more kitsch elements of Superman mythos like the 5th dimension, Supermen Squad, the underverse and the black kryptonite.
Also very important: for the first time in my life I bought into the idea that no-one ever realized Clark Kent and Superman are the same person.
I think it is perfect for Superman stories.
If you want to convince someone into liking Superman, give them this book.
I like seeing superman playing fetch with krypto, having superman fly Lois' car to the fortress of solitude, and my favorite story in this graphic novel was when Clark Kent was doing his interview with Lex!
I love seeing Luthor being extra (that whole gym scene!) and just completely falling head over heels for Clark Kent and at the same time complaining about Superman.
There is a few other small bits that I like and I feel like they understand the character despite the some of the stories being meh.
I think this was worth the read, especially for the Clark Kent and Lex Luthor story!
