https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/29386918-wildcard
Same thing for Hideo: he only haunts the edges of the story but never gets quite enough focus to mean much.
I guess the book was less interested in that aspect than I was, and cast it off relatively quickly in favor of pursuing a less enjoyable narrative cobbled together with few plot twists that—when taken all together—didn't quite reach the high water mark set by the first novel, and building up to an ending and denouement that somehow skirt the edge of taste to be ludicrous and not the least bit satisfying.It’s really a sad thought, but there’s a saving grace: Emika’s team.
I like sweets.
Ice cream is one of my favorite sweets.
I do not take my ice cream lightly.
When I get ice cream, you can bet that I'm gonna savor it.
Well the other day, I was at a restaurant reading Wildcard and I ordered ice cream.
Because I WAS SO IMMERSED IN THIS BOOK THAT I COULDN'T THINK ABOUT ANYTHING ELSE BECAUSE THAT'S HOW GOOD IT IS.
It is a WONDERFUL book and I highly recommend that everyone read it.
But Marie, you owe me ice cream b/c it's 100% your fault that mine melted before I could eat it.
That's the difference between the real and the virtual. Reality is where you can lose the ones you love. Reality is the place where you can feel the cracks in your heart. 2 1/2 stars. Wow, I'm really not sure how to rate this book. I think it was pretty poorly-paced with weak characters, but I also liked some of the exciting twists and turns Lu took.My experience with this book actually makes me wonder if I was in a really good mood when I read Warcross. Emika is so bland. Was she always this b
I think it was pretty poorly-paced with weak characters, but I also liked some of the exciting twists and turns Lu took.My experience with this book actually makes me wonder if I was in a really good mood when I read Warcross.
The Phoenix Riders don't feature for a huge chunk of this book, with the focus instead being on Hideo and Zero (and, I guess, Emika, except it feels like she does nothing).The Zero aspect of the story is fairly interesting, and I'm glad we got to see what happened to him.
There were absolutely scenes that reminded me why I fell in love with the story of Warcross in the first place.Other than that, this book was just .
I felt the high intensity story of Warcross was bogged down by filler scenes and LOTS of dialogue.
To be frank, I truly feel like the complete sequel was unnecessary and I would have preferred Warcross to be longer and complete the story as a standalone.
One of the elements I loved in Warcross were the characters.
THINGS TO DO BEFORE I DIE:1. Own and read every single book Marie Lu writes.
3.5*
I always forget this about myself: if I don’t love the characters of a series’ opening book, I should not read the sequel to said book.
None of the characters are particularly interesting, but I guess they’re compelling enough for a YA sci-fi.
And then this book fucks up a perfectly good thing by removing any sort of agency from the main character, which is not a good way to make a narrative compelling and I, as someone who literally has a mention of my love for narrative agency in my Goodreads bio, am not pleased.
also, they’re really good!!
lol) - Emika knows she needs to do SOMETHING, and Zero is trying to convince her to work alongside him to stop his brother.
Do Hideo and Emika get screentime together (because let's face it, most of us still shipped them after book two)?Oh yeah.
Zero and his story heighten the plot to a new level, and what you'll learn is a game changer.
All in all, this was a fantastic end to Emika's story.
And while I can't say much about the end, I'll say I think Marie Lu did it justice - spinning it in ways I couldn't have predicted.
this is the worst book i've read in recent memory.review to come! :)--------do you ever do something and as you're doing it you're like "why am i doing this, this is a bad choice, why am i like this?"that's me with reading this book
Love this series so much!
“And that's when I realize that, at the end, we'd all wish for the same thing. Just a little more time." Before I get into my review of this book I figured I’d remind you about what happened in the last book in case you don’t remember, if you do just skip the next paragraph.Hideo Tanaka created a virtual reality game called Warcross that took the world by storm. Emika Chen hacked the game, but unfortunately was revealed to the world as her hack’s invisibility dropped for a second. Instead of be
Emika gets to know that Hideo's new NeuroLink lenses are going to be used to control the minds of just about everyone in the world in an attempt to put an end to all crime and bad intentions, Emika is shocked that the man she fell in love with could do such a thing.This book is nothing like the last one.
Warcross was our introduction to this world, Emika Chen, and the underlying plot which was going to drive the second book.
In this book we definitely see a lot more of Zero and the people who help him, and they play a huge role in directing this story forward.
i completely and wholeheartedly judge books based on their covers.
theres a lot of darknet and blackweb dealings going on in this book and the cover captures the essence of that really well.
i feel bad that i misjudged, but hey, it happens.in regards to the story, this felt really different from warcross.
so even though this wasnt quite as carefree as warcross, i thought this was still a really interesting and necessary story.
a little sad, but i feel very content with the way things ended.
marie lu is the queen of trilogies, so i feel somewhat cheated out of a book.
But after every solution, there’s a new problem to tackle, some new challenge to take on.”🌟 If you know me well, then by this point you should already know 2 things: I love Marie Lu, I have read all her 9 books and I own 7 of them.
I fall somewhere in the middle as I can see why either party will do so.🌟 I think the main problem with this is that I didn’t feel that it was a continuation of Warcross.
SPOILER WARNING !!!!!!!!!i'm about to get real petty so i suggest you better RUN (all the issues i had with this book: in notes):• this went from the idea of a VR world to an AI trying to take over humanity, somehow• ummm???• literally nobody asked for this• can i just enjoy my fighting robot dragons in peace• i feel like a lot of the actions that were happening didn't even make sense• marie lu was literally just throwing plot twist after plot twist at us, trying to make something great out of something that was already enough.
She was certainly all of these things in this book.In the previous book, Emika was an active and interesting character.
Emika is such a weak character in this one that it's actually kind of sad to read about.
Honestly, they were more interesting than Emika, especially  Tremaine and Roshan, and I would much rather read their stories instead.Another thing that this book did well was the mystery of Sasuke's disappearance.
Sadly, that wasn't enough to make me love this.Overall, I think the book was kind of bland.
If Warcross just wasn't your thing, then maybe leave this one be.My review for book one: HERE
THIS WAS SO FRICKEN GOOD! Such a great ending that wrapped everything up so perfectly! While I didn’t read it in one sitting like I did Warcross, I still enjoyed every second of it, and Marie Lu continued to blow my mind all through the second book :)
update march 26, 2018:WE HAVE A TITLE! I love it!---I need it nowwwwww
2018 will forever be remembered as the year in which all my favorite authors let me down ... except for one. Who, sadly, is not Marie Lu.Blog | Bloglovin’ | Instagram | Tumblr | Twitter
REVIEW TO COME SOON!•••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••I'm currently reading this book, which I've been so excited and curious about since I finished reading Warcross. I AM SO READY TO FEEL ALL THE EMOTIONS. AHHHH. Please don't disappoint me book! I also have a crush on Hideo! He's so 😍💓 honestly where can I find a guy like him in my real life? Lol 😂
y'all this book was a Ride- this book takes place right after the ending of the first book, so its very easy to get back into- it definitely didn't take the turn i was expecting it to take (view spoiler)[ i thought there would be a love triangle between hideo, emi, and zero but nope (hide spoiler)]- zero's character was fantastic, it was probably one of the best qualities of the book.
OH GOSH I LOVE THE CREW WITH EVERYTHING I AM- they definitely were the cherry on the cake bc they were pure and loveable and every precious in the world- the plot twists my man- got me shook like 14 times- that is to say, its definitely darker than book 1- am i a sucker for tragic backstories related to family???
I'm between 4 and 4.5 stars. Wildcard  represents the third series of Marie Lu's I've read to completion, and once again, I am amazed at her talent at building complex, compelling settings and creating characters you empathize with (as well as some you root against). Sure, sometimes the plots get a little bit technical or complicated, but at their core, Lu's books are about human connection, and we can all use a little more of that."When the world is murky, guide yourself with your own steady li
represents the third series of Marie Lu's I've read to completion, and once again, I am amazed at her talent at building complex, compelling settings and creating characters you empathize with (as well as some you root against).
you realize how well drawn the characters are, even those in supporting roles, like Emika's Warcross teammates, and you find yourself racing through the book, eager to know how things will unfold.This book didn't fully capture its predecessor's magic; there were times when the plot dragged a little or got a little too mired in complexity, but ultimately, Lu's storytelling drew me back in fairly quickly.
Wildcard is finally out, but I can't pick it up just yet because life isn't about what we want :(I'll have to wait a few more days, so I really hope this book don't disappoint me.
I'm already hurt from having to wait so damn long for this.
Pls don't hurt me by being bad, book.
When I first saw them, let me tell ya, I was not a fan, but I like book one so much that it makes me believe I actually like both covers now hahaSeptember is not near enough, gimme Wildcard nooow!
that cover is uh ... it's something(the more I look at it, the less I hate it .. so there's that?)Anyway I'm gonna start designing Marie Lu's covers bc I'm sick of her good ass books getting done did dirty in the graphic design department
I went into this one without a refresher on Warcross, but found that I didn’t quite need it.
Of course there are some of the same characters from Warcross, but I won’t mention anything there.Plot wise, I didn’t know what to expect and I was blown away.
Yes, I’m being vague on purpose because spoilers.Overall, this series has been intriguing from the start and this ending was everything I could have wanted and a few things I didn’t know I needed.**Huge thanks to GP Putnam’s Sons Books for Young Readers for providing the arc free of charge**
Update #9*DEAD*Update #8WELL.FUCK.Update #7You know you’re trash for a character when you read a simple quote of them talking for about 3 seconds and you squeal like you’ve just been gifted a ticket to the Wizarding World of Harry Potter.Update #6 ARE YOU HEARING ME SCREAM????????!!!!MY BTS BIAS IS IN MY MOST ANTICIPATED BOOK EVER AND I’M SLOWLY DYINGGGGUpdate #5That moment when you see all these people with Wildcard arcs and you die a little inside.Update #4I admit I was confused at first and didn’t really like the cover.
COVER REVEAL ON MONDAY!!!!!YAAAASSSSSUpdate #2OMGTHIS TITLE IS EVERYTHING I LOVE ITI CAN’TI don’t know why I’m hyperventilating because it’s so simple and I don’t understand why I didn’t think about it in the first place, but I am.

Haven't even read the first book but I already want this too. It's just the Marie Lu effect on me: I always need more and more and more.
Warcross was one of my favorite books of last year, so i (obviously) had high hopes for Wildcard.
Wildcard is definitely a darker book compared to Warcross, but it's one of the things that made me love it more.
i forgot a lot of details in Warcross, which made me kind of confused while reading Wildcard.
(hide spoiler)]the thing we, as readers, are most worried for is the ending of a series.
i love her books, but am usually frustrated at her endings – mostly because of what she does to characters.
*reads the synopsis*sees: "But Emika soon learns that Zero isn't all that he seems--and his protection comes at a price." reaction:
time to have my soul crushed so crush my soul, Marie Lu, thank u. (ok but deadass all I've seen are negative reviews and i am fucking TERRIFIED)buddy read with the one and only Maggy
