https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/16385.Lord_Emsworth_Acts_for_the_Best
This brings out the best in the Blandings repertory company and is worth the cover charge of the book alone.Although the majority of these stories are not to the calibre Wodehouse brought to the Blandings novels they are indispensable as stories such as ‘The Custody of the Pumpkin’, ‘Pig-hoo-o-o-oey!’ and especially ‘Lord Emsworth Acts for the Best’, in which Freddie Threepwood is married, contain the facts that are referred to in some of the greater orgies.
So delightful.
Just such beautiful beautiful words in such delightful stories.
"Lord Emsworth and the Girl Friend" and "Crime Wave at Blandings" some of the finest Wodehouse (or any).
--"Lord Emsworth could conceive of no way in which Freddie could be of value to a dog-biscuit firm, except possibly as a taster; but he refrained from damping the other's enthusiasm by saying so." (The Custody of the Pumpkin)--"He bent to where the animal lay on the hearth-rug, and prodded it civilly in the lower ribs.
Bottles waved a long tail in brief acknowledgement.
He was a fine dog, though of uncertain breed.
One of the great temptations of life is to take oneself too seriously.
Spicing your reading list with some of Wodehouse’s works will do wonders for your inflated ego.
Often unfairly accused of being too frivolous, Wodehouse is quite a serious writer.
By cutting the legs out from under the pretension and self-aggrandizement of his curious characters, he allows us to laugh at ourselves through their larger-than-life foibles.
As a writer, I can’t help but to revel in his masterful use of the English language; very few others have attained the level of precision in description that his works overflow with.
More wonderful Wodehouse. I love Lord Emsworth, the "woollen-headed" peer, almost as much as I love Bertie Wooster and his omniscient valet, Jeeves. This is one of my favorite Wodehouse books -- every single story is funny. Also, if you're looking for a way/place to jump into the Blandings novels, this is a perfect introduction! I highly, highly recommend.
Classic Wodehouse, always a pleasure. I especially love the story in which everybody, including Lady Constance, takes a pop at everybody else with an airgun. A comfort read to make the world seem brighter and more friendly.
It's P.G. Wodehouse, what do you think I'm going to say? I picked this up at a library sale and it's exposing me to some of his work I hadn't read before.
As opposed to dipping into a collection of tales from time to time, Lord Emsworth Acts for the Best is my second collection of stories by The Master in as many months, and although I could scarcely have believed it, that may have been too much.
Although New York and Long Island are of course fictional locations, the fact that they masquerade as somewhere real and that Wodehouse actually puts Emsworth on the spot is a jar.
Or perhaps the problem with the volume is simply that Wodehouse anthologies can be too much of a good thing.
Too many stories cramped into this short book. Felt rushed with incomplete story lines. Meh.
Got this book at the Minnehaha Free Space library. By far the least revolutionary book on their shelves, but what I had the mental space for at the time.
Fantastic as always, with a particularly good introduction - more of a tribute to Wodehouse's entire literary career.
Less well known than Wodehouse's Jeeves & Wooster stories, but just as funny!
If it were possible, Wodehouse's Blandings tales are even funnier than the Jeeves stories. Could it be? Side-splitting.
Masterly..
Right ho! A jolly good read.
