https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/80977.In_This_House_of_Brede
I re-read this book every year or so.
The opening scene where the highly successful businesswoman Philippa is giving away treasured possessions which she will no longer need at Brede abbey, draws you right into this story.
The community of Benedictine nuns are a fascinating bunch.
Flawed yet likeable, they all have their own stories and Godden doesn't underdevelop any of them.
This is a hard book to sell to non-Catholics, or non-religious for that matter.
That's a shame, because it has alot to offer based on the sheer ability of Godden to create memorable characters.
My favorite part of this book was the grace shown to the failures of many of the women and how God worked all things together for good in realistic ways in each of their lives.
This book was a beautiful testimony of how grace works in all of our lives.
Like Kristin Lavransdatter, some books must be read at the right moment in time.
My time had come to read this one, hence the 5 stars.
I had the queer feeling that I needed to read Brede.
Perhaps, I know deep down that my Aunt Eloise may not be in this world much longer and that I needed the comfort of reading something that I could be close to her in spirit.
Aunt Eloise's dementia has reduced her once great mind to only God knows what.
But who knew that a story about an Abbey full of nuns could be so interesting?
I know this little review hasn't said much about the plot - I can't really get it down on paper; Brede is just one of those books you have to read.
I've read this at least three times before.
It's interesting, because I am an atheist, but I find this book fascinating for its characterization of community life, particularly among women.
The characters are very well drawn, the interactions are subtle and complex, and the result is a refreshing read.UPDATE 8/29/07: I just finished this again, and was once more taken with the clear focus this book places on the ways people can change when they are determined to do it.
(If you read it, check the math at the time of the vote.
I am neither religious nor Catholic; I abhor the idea of poverty, chastity, or obedience - yet this book made me want to join a nunnery. A fascinating portrayal of the contemplative life. And how nice to read a book about nuns that doesn't center on having a nun fall in love.
I read this book following a personal recommendation, and I'm very pleased that I did read it.
What I do know is that without this recommendation I probably wouldn't have looked at this book.
It's to the credit of the author that I found the book interesting, and the characters believable and well rounded.
Another book that I read recently was Conclave by Robert Harris.
What I now know after reading this book is that it wasn't the subject matter that stopped me being interested in Conclave, it was the writing style.
Thirty years later Godden returned to the subject of nuns with In This House of Brede and explored it without much of the popular-fiction melodrama.
Godden researched the book by spending three years in an abbey herself.In This House of Brede is primarily the story of Philippa Talbot, an extremely successful businesswoman and leader, a widow in her 40s who startlingly gives it all up to become a Benedictine nun.
The challenges she faces as a postulant detail for the lay reader just how difficult it is to leave the active "outside" world to start a new life in a reflective order.
Reading In This House of Brede by Rumer Godden is the closest either Julie or Scott will come to being cloistered nuns==========This is Godden's masterwork and I don't say that lightly.I'm not sure how many times I've read this book ...
You know a book's a classic when you learn something new about yourself every time you read it.
I know I'd read it many times with great pleasure before even considering my own conversion.
Even I at my most jaded considered the story to be realistic when including a miracle.
Devastating every single time, and I hate when it's over, because I just want to read about these people forever.
Everybody should read it.This is quite a book.
The monastery is a community of people, some of whom are witty, some of whom are kind and gentle, some of whom are elegant and beautiful.
It took me a few days to read this book, but over ten years passed in the rich life of this monastery.I need to also note that this book brought me to tears several times.
Astonishing, beautiful, moving book.Upon re-reading, 10/2013: I'm not sure I have anything to add.
This book has profound meaning for me...it's about a group of contemplative nuns. If you've ever gotten sick and tired of living in the mundane world, I highly recommend picking up this book. It shows just how hard nuns work, and how their struggles with each other are no different than the struggles that most people have in modern life. Still, there is something beautiful and holy about THIS HOUSE OF BREDE that makes me want to shuck off my sweat pants and don a habit. Especially when the bills come due.
Wow. My reading challenge included reading a book over 500 pages.
I never expected that a book about a woman who enters the cloister could possibly be so riveting.
This successful woman leaves her comfortable job and apartment to enter the cloister - and many of the Dames think that she won't be successful because she's lived too long in the world.What I so enjoyed about the book is that the Dames (sisters) were so relatable.
As the many seasons passed in the book, it brought a peaceful depth to my heart.
I have reread it many times and it never fails to grip me, the sheer beauty of the book leaves me in tears.Philippa Talbot enters the Abbey of Brede when she is successful, at the peak of her career, her friends are astounded, but for her the life that she had led was simply not enough.
Indeed, as a nun, love towards the other sisters is a sacrifice and a gift that requires the grace of God. By continuous prayer, sacrifice, the thought of others before self, Philippa learns to love each of the nuns equally, cherishing their varied foibles and their different natures.
The story covers the lives of these women for fourteen years, beginning with Philippa’s entrance in 1954.One of my favorite quotes from author Connie Willis: “The entire range of human experience is present in a church choir, including, but not restricted to jealousy, revenge, horror, pride, incompetence (the tenors have never been on the right note in the entire history of church choirs, and the basses have never been on the right page), wrath, lust and existential despair.”Monastics are more focused than your average church choir, of course, and they are rigorously screened for the difficulties of a cloistered life; but they are as human as anyone, and it’s fascinating to watch them living this life of tremendous discipline, and experiencing both the challenge and the great joy of their vocation.Also of great interest is the practical information about their lives at Brede.
I re-read this book every few years, when my soul feels dusty.
I am currently looking for books that aren't about war, concentration camps or genocide, since I feel I've read enough of them recently.
This was a book recommended to me by the Goodreads Bot because I read Kristin Lavransdatter and Island of the World both Catholic books.
I'm not Catholic, but I enjoyed all three books very much.
Why would a 40 year old woman with a successful career want to become a nun?
The answer unfolds slowly and gently along with at least two other engrossing subplots.
If you enjoyed Jayber Crow or At Home in Mitford I recommend this book to you.
I am going to be thinking about all of the pearls of beauty and wisdom this book contained for days. Maybe I can write a more thoughtful review later, but wow, this was so well done, poignant and just beautiful.
Rumer Godden is an author who should definitely be remembered!In This House of Brede tells the story of Philippa, a successful businesswoman with a past, who follows God's leading to enter a monastery in Brede England in the 1950s.
Because of her success, connections, and worldliness, her sincerity and willingness to humble herself are doubted at first, but the Abbess Hester agrees that Philippa will be accepted as a novice.
This is not a preachy religious book.
It tells a fictional story with respect, but without rose-colored glasses.
I really want to give this book 5 stars, but my one criticism is that it was a little long.
After growing up catholic, I wish these nuns were the ones to teach me.
Maybe the book would then be too overly religious.The author did bring to life many many characters in the book, and you begin to feel you know each of them personally.
You really get to know Sister PhillipaSister Phillipa after 42 years of her life decides to join Brede.
I believe it is her training at Brede that teaches her to forgive.
Also, it is extremely interesting throughout the book how the issue that Phillipa must separate herself from her former life.
If a 600+ page novel on a Benedictine monastery sounds dry to you, fear not!
Godden tells a marvelous story that is not in the least dull.
This book contains nuanced character development, an easy-to-read storytelling style, and plots and subplots that keep the pages turning.
For me, there is also something unexpectedly comforting about the rhythmic, rich inner world of this cloistered community.
Beyond just being a thoroughly enjoyable story, this book helped me to understand and appreciate so many aspects of this way of life that I had never considered.
I am looking forward to reading more of Rumer Godden's books!
I LOVED this book. It is such a faithful, warm and real portrayal of women, women who are very easy to connect with, despite their cloistered life. Rumer G's writing style suited me perfectly. She slips in dialoge in an interesting way, almost like asides, that made me feel like I was a confidant, or I was in the room with the women. There were scenes that made me laugh, that made me cry, times I was shocked and times I felt awe. Just lovely, and perfect for Lent.
It was particularly moving reading this book in a group of friends who, like me, were homeschooling multiple children and overwhelmed by the lack of solitude, etc. A nun's life seemed quite intriguing to us! Godden reminds us that wherever we go, we carry ourselves with us, and that beauty and fullness can be found in wildly disparate kinds of lives.
I'm pretty sure I can't write a review worthy of this book yet. But it was very good.
In her introduction, Phyllis Tickle, whose many books I've read and enjoyed, says that "In This House of Brede is probably the most accessible, accurate, and sympathetic presentation of monastic life in all of English literature." And, "the stuff of our souls [are] identical .
This quote stood out to me also: "[I]n religion a different year revolves within the natural one, the seasons making a background for it."I have long been drawn to the traditional, formal structure of liturgical worship.
Referring to the liturgy, Abbess Catherine says, "It is splendid.
It takes a special inner strength to completely give oneself over to God and the religious life.Parts of the book were about the Abbess who has the daunting task of keeping the Abbey fiscally solvent while attending to the emotional and spiritual needs of the other nuns.
Often the changes caused inner jealousies which the nuns fought to control.I read most of this book over the last three days, and I felt like I had been totally immersed in a different way of life, one of rules, rituals, and deprivation.
I remember watching the movie first as a girl.
A very youthful Diana Rigg plays Philippa who gives up everything to enter Brede.
Later when I was older, I read the book, but I don't remember when and unfortunately I didn't write it down.
It's an excellent study of women's spirituality, women living in community, one particular woman's journey, friendship and the essential nature of human relationships to our Divine Creator.
It's a beautiful and haunting book.
Secretum Meum Mihi Press has an excellent review of In This House of Brede in their monthly newsletter: http://www.secretummeummihipress.com/...
I loved this book.
I had feared it would be heavy or require a lot of thought.
It did, in fact, cause me to think a lot, but not to try and figure out what happened or what it meant.
This was a wonderful study of one woman's life in a monestary.
How she decided to enter, the history of her life beforehand, how she lives the rest of her life once she takes her vows.I also learned a lot about the religion and beliefs of the Benedictine order.Maybe it just caught me at an opportune time, being right before Lent and a time of personal reflection for me anyway.
But I just thought it was lovely.REREAD July 8, 2013
Rumer Godden is a prolific writer who converted to Catholicism as an adult. She is brilliant at character development and her characters are fully fleshed out and so very interesting. In this novel, we follow a woman as she discerns her vocation as a nun. We see her whole life in segments as she learns to adust to her life in cloister. Fabulous read!!!
Then I came across Rumer Godden’s wonderful novel on religious life: In This House of Brede.Telling the story of Philippa Talbot, a woman with a tragic past who is a workaholic with a blunt disposition, she is more of a doer than a sayer, not someone inclined to casual chitchat and certainly not a woman most people would feel cozy with.
And Philippa acts by gifting her employees with personal and expensive treasures that she had amassed over the course of her working life, mementos to be given away so that those in her inner circle may remember her.
This was such a beautiful book. A perfect lenten read. The narrative style was very interesting. I have read it aptly described as a stream of conscience from the narrator. Although this threw me off in the first chapter, I found it to be very readable and quickly became engrossed in the various story lines and characters. There is a main character, however, the focus isn't always on her experience and I came to love many of the other nuns especially Abbess Catherine.
mark the page with the list of characters, you might find it helpful to keep biographical notes, too.Now, my review:Another Rumer Godden novel about nuns, this time the story revolves around cloistered Benedictine abbey in England.
The over-arcing character development of Dame Philippa keeps the book cohesive - the necessary thread that makes In This House of Brede a novel rather than a collection of short stories.
Perhaps they are, since the book is based in fact and in the preface Rumer mentions how a committee of 3 nuns helped her edit the story, and so I like to think that these little quotes in the book are sort of snippets from the real life nuns.
