https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/208180.Jesus_and_the_Disinherited
Thurman then uses Jesus' historical context and relates it to the hardships encountered by African-Americans in the pre-civil rights era, emphasizing how Jesus' teaching can form practical solutions to overcoming the "three hounds of Hell" which he names, "fear, deception and hate." Throughout the rest of the treatise, Thurman provides excellent description of how the "hounds of hell operate" and his repeated theme by which to overcome is that mankind must change his "inward center" before any of the outer world may be changed.Although many may be hesitant to read such a work based upon the title, Thurman's work is more of a philosophical and mystical treatise than a proselytizing harangue, as are most contemporary religious works.
Howard Thurman was a family friend of the Kings’.
In India, Thurman was challenged: how can blacks still abide by the religion of their oppressors?
Though nurtured in the black Church and studied in the social gospel, Thurman answers by making a distinction between “Christianity” and the “religion of Jesus.” The former has forgotten that Jesus was an oppressed racial minority, working class, and victim of empire.
Jesus’s religion provides the necessary resources to mediate the effects of suffering—hate, despair, demoralization—and to prepare the disinherited—psychologically, spiritually, liturgically—for struggles with social and racial injustice.
Before Dr. King knew of Ghandi, Dr. Thurman was in India, learning from the man himself!
Rev. Thurman speaks of Jesus as a man-- of flesh and blood.
Howard Thurman references the ghetto and how people on the periphery of society, the Disinherited, are constantly standing with their backs up against the wall.
This man is genius, because he says that people who are trapped with their backs up against the wall should use the teachings of Jesus to elevate their situation.
I return to this book again and again. Nearly every word is highlighted or underlined. Whenever people ask me, "What should I read?" this book is the one I recommend. Written decades ago, it remains a timeless classic for anyone trying to figure out how to love people on the margins, the people who thrive on the systems that create the margins, and everyone in between.
The first thing I underlined was, "[This] reveals to what extent a religion that was born of a people acquainted with persecution and suffering has become the cornerstone of a civilization and of nations whose very position in modern life has too often been secured by a ruthless use of power applied to weak and defenseless peoples." Howard Thurman wrote the book in 1949, but he could have written it today.
If you are of the privileged class and wonder why there are so many problems with race relations, riots against the police, etc., you need to read this book as it will give you some great insights into how oppressed people default to fear, deception, and hate.
I've read a bit of this previously but didn't sit with the whole book, and I started reading work from brown and black men and women, inside and outside the American story.
As much as I resound with Thurman's call to the good news of inclusion and the hard work of love, it horrifies me to read this book, written in 1949, against this year's high-profile violent responses by those with power against those without it, and to see that Thurman's call to commitment is as applicable now as it was 65 years ago.
Further, I want to believe that Thurman's words have helped me consider the presence of any and all fear, dishonesty, and hatred in my own life and determine to eradicate it; contemplate what I can do, as a Christ follower, to show "reverence for personality" regardless of another's--or my!--race or status; and even better process the Rachel Dolezal scandal (which has had my head spinning for weeks).Such an intelligent, compassionate, challenging book Jesus and the Disinherited is!
Howard Thurman wrote this book in 1949 and his words are a precursor to ML King's love ethic and James Cone's Theology of Black Liberation.
Thurman write this book for the "the disinherited," with the assumption that Jesus was a member of the oppressed and that his message was a survival strategy for the oppressed.
As a white male North American I found myself on the outside looking in wondering how, as Thurman points out, Christianity had become the religion of the strong.
His words challenge my paternalism and privelege, and casue me to look again at who Jesus was, what he said, and what it means for the live of the priveleged.
"In his seminal 1949 book, Jesus and the Disinherited, Thurman provided an interpretation of the New Testament gospels that laid the foundation for a nonviolent civil rights movement.
Thurman presented the basic goal of Jesus' life as helping the disinherited of the world change from within so they would be empowered to survive in the face of oppression.
A love rooted in the "deep river of faith," wrote Thurman, would help oppressed peoples overcome persecution.
"It may twist and turn, fall back on itself and start again, stumble over an infinite series of hindering rocks, but at last the river must answer the call to the sea.""
At many points throughout this book, it was hard to believe Thurman wrote it 60-plus years ago. So many passages spoke with eerie relevance to current events. For the near future, I plan to keep it in my bag for rereading and reference.
Mr. Thurman writes with the heart of a poet, though what he writes about is anything but poetry.
In a time where some blacks feel that we are no closer to justice as a people than in the revolutionary times of the Civil Rights movement, reading this book will enlighten you on what's truly behind poverty, inequality, and injustice.
This book walks you over Self-pity Bridge, past Police Injustice Avenue, on to Here-I-Stand Lane.
The verbiage is confusing at times since this book was written using the vernacular of a different era - not an era LONG past, just slightly.
The insights into the lives of the 'disinherited' and the life of Jesus were eye opening and challenging.
Sometimes in exalting the Son of God perspective we can lose sight of the man Jesus of Nazareth who lived in a particular setting and time with challenges that were enhanced by the powerful Roman establishment.
As I read this and considered what Mr. Thurman was presenting I wondered how this book could have been written today with the refugee crisis in mind?
Very grateful to have spent time with this book and Im sure I will return to it.JD
Immediately, on the first page, Thurman says, "Too often the price exacted by society for security and respectability is that the Christian movement in its formal expression must be on the side of the strong against the weak." Amen.
Thurman lays out the three "hounds of hell that dog the footsteps of the disinherited"--fear, deception, and hate--dismantling each one using the example of Jesus, a poor Jewish man who lived as a minority in the midst of a larger and dominant controlling group, the Romans.
A man must love his neighbor directly, clearly, permitting no barriers between." Again I say, AMEN!
This is a profound book by one of the prominent the civil rights leaders of the 20th century.
It provides a much needed prescription for the ways that the Bible and Jesus have been used by the powerful to oppress the weak and disinherited.
Thurman shows very clearly how Jesus identifies with the disinherited in multiple ways and he outlines moral ways that the disinherited can respond to oppression.
The central point is that Jesus is on the side of, was in fact, one of the disinherited and it is through Jesus' moral teachings that the path for the disinherited lies.
And he then takes a look at the power of love.Thurman asks us to consider the example of the Roman Centurion [captain] who came to Capernaum for help with healing one of his servants (Matthew 8:15).
The final barrier between the strong and the weak, between ruler and ruled, disappeared."In order to truly overcome oppression, Thurman writes that we need to be aware of the tools the oppressors use: fear, deception and hate.
And after recognizing fear, deception and hate for what they are, love needs to be incorporated in reaching true freedom.
that anyone who permits another to determine the quality of his inner life gives into the hands of the other the keys of his destiny (28).” The religion of Jesus was not what we see in the powerful and oppressive, but rather was “a technique of survival for the oppressed (29).” This mindset is exemplified through overcoming what Thurman calls the “persistent hounds of hell that dog the footsteps of the poor, the disposed, the disinherited (36).” Fear is constant for those at the margins.
According to Thurman, Jesus exemplified three types of enemy love.
He arranges the four primary emotions related to oppression and the responses of Jesus to each emotion, drawing clear lines from Jesus's work to the America of Thurman's time.The portrait of Jesus's life and teaching that emerges within this context is devastating, actionable, and transformative.
It serves to center the lives and experiences of the oppressed, offer a communal experience that transcends the boundaries of power, and draw a clear path to restoration through worship.The book that Dr. King carried around with him retains its clarity and relevance.
"There must always be the confidence that the effect of truthfulness can be realized in the mind of the oppressor as well as the oppressed." pg.
60"Sincerity in human relations is equal to, and the same as, sincerity to God.
hatred often begins in a situation in which there is contact without fellowship.
From my understanding, these words of Thurman's were among those which inspired the leadership and life of Martin Luther King Jr. The faith of both, their desire to live a life of peace, love and forgiveness toward those who hated them is of the utmost inspiration and conviction.
I've been increasingly dissatisfied with church on the whole for the last few years, but was never able to really understand why. Reading this book has nailed it for me. The image of a church community that operates on the taught principles of Jesus for fellowship and breaking down of societal barriers, with a priority given to providing a space for the voice of the disinherited, is one that I could get passionate about, but so rarely see in actual execution.
To see all as Human. Reverence for the imago dei. An important read.
Thurman profoundly challenges readers to see our need to be forgiven by God and provides a picture of what human forgiveness can look like across social strata.
This book is fascinating on many levels. It furthered my understanding both of people who are “disinherited” as well as my relationship with God.
Although I have managed to pull myself out of poverty by using the training, education, and opportunities provided me in the military, and even though that same training, education, and opportunities are also there for African-Americans, our life experiences are nonetheless quite different.Howard Thurman made me see that the situation of the Jews in the time of Christ was much like that of African-Americans prior to the civil rights movement.
Yet this book is not a treatise on non-violent resistance, but rather a treatise on the relationship between Christ and those whose backs are against the wall, those who are outcasts, those who are downtrodden, those who are at the end of their rope.
The book is about the fundamentals of the human experience - why there is hatred in the world, why we gravitate toward it, why we find it to be useful, and how it destroys the soul.
Thurman unpacks why Jesus teaches all to love their enemies - with chapters on fear, deception, hate, and love.
Which leads to deception to avoid violence, which eventually boils down into hatred of those who oppress us.
It is still relevant today as we often gravitate toward hatred of various groups in our society and through wars - with painful repercussions for all of us.
Thurman offers a shattering shift in perspective by considering the religion of Jesus and what, if anything, it has to offer to those "with their backs against the wall." In the process, Thurman creatively and concisely re-appropriates Jesus in his religious, social, and political context and reveals that Christ does, in fact, offer an answer--a way of life--to those who are "disinherited." While that fact is not surprising, Thurman illustrates the life of Jesus in a way that revealed my previous portrait of him as monochromatic, stale, and relatively impotent.
But Jesus had a revolutionary and transformative message for those who would take up his life--"the Kingdom of Heaven is in us"!This is an unsettling and insightful volume that makes tangible experiences of fear, deception, and hate.
I must say that it did leave me with more questions than when I started reading, but I deeply appreciated the intellectual and ethical sincerity with which he grappled such difficult issues that pervade our human consciousness and our society.
He addressed moral and ethical questions with intellectual vivacity, drawing from history, psychology, and using even scientific metaphors, but he did so as a tool to peer into the greater depths of the moral and emotional inquiries of our daily existence as context.
The reflections on hate, deception, fear and love are very revealing.
What the Religion of Jesus has to offer to those people who are pushed to the wall - the disinherited?Can it offer anything at all for the dispossessed for it had always identified itself with the dominant and oppressive group?
If it can offer something to them what can it be?With these questions Howard Thurman begins the book.
And then there are some fantastic reflections.
He talks having the apartheid situation present in America.
But then his reflections can apply to any disinherited group in any society.
Thurman's persistent use of male pronouns chafes in the modern ear, but that should in no way be any reason to ignore this book. A pastoral look at the role of Christianity in the lives of the subaltern which preceded Liberation Theology by over two decades, this short volume ought to be required Sunday School reading in every church.
Classic. Framed the Civil Rights Movement. Thurman met Gandhi before India's liberation from the British Empire. Powerful and prophetic. MLK walked with it for years in his backpocket. A must read.
Too short!
