https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/372638.Lyle_Lyle_Crocodile
Another charming and lovingly illustrated book in which Lyle has to save some asshole's life to stop them from harassing him.
Mr. Grumps hates Lyle, who lives with the Primm family, because he frightens his cat. After Lyle has an adventure in the department store, Mr. Grumps manages to get Lyle locked up in the zoo. Luckily he gets the green light to come back home before he escapes to Australia.I loved this book. The pictures are charming. I love the color scheme, the bold lines, and the way Lyle sticks out. Oddly enough, my 7-month-old baby was completely charmed and giggled her way through the pictures.
Our first Lyle book was kinda cute, but I think he's starting to lose his luster. We read so much, we really need something different for us to stay hooked. My 3 yr old twins weren't interested at all, and my 5 yr old somewhat enjoyed the story. Somewhere around a level 2 reading book, this might be good for new readers wanting to read on their own.
This is a strange story about an anthropomorphic rendering of a crocodile.
He walks on his hind legs, dances, ice skates and shops at a department store.
Of course there is a bit of drama and the crocodile is a hero.
It is a bit long, but overall, it's a fun story.
I remember this book from my childhood, but it wasn't one of my favorites.
Nor do I think it will be a favorite for our girls.
The book has an ISBN 13 9780395137208 and the CD is narrated by the author, Bernard Waber.
This book is about not judging a book by its cover. Mr. Grumps judged the crocodile before knowing him but then realized how brave and kind he was when he rescued him from Mr. Grumps smoking house.
Bernard Waber was one of the very best, in my opinion, when creating imaginative and compelling stories that kids relate to. Ira Sleeps Over ranks as one of my favorites, if not #1. Most people might connect Waber with this one, however, as Lyle is widely read and available in classrooms and libraries. I love the look and the writing style of Waber, and there are always scenes in his stories that stick with me!
I picked this up because the cover was reminiscent of my childhood in the school library. It is just the right combination of silly and serious. Even though Lyle is a crocodile living in the city, there are enough red flags from the people in the community that the book doesn’t become ridiculous—it’s an emotional roller coaster, full of fun and redemption.
This book is hit or miss with my kids. We've read it several times over the last few months and they either like it or get bored after the second page.
Lyle The crocodile loved living with the Primm family and their son Joshua.
Lyle loved to help Joshua Brush up on his school work.
After reading this book I allowed my daycare children to make Crocodiles out of construction paper and washable paint.
When you add activities to story time kids have something to look forward to while reading.
When I pull out a book my kids starts screaming were going to do activities and read.
It melts my heart to know they my children love story time and that I am able to make that time and enjoyment for them.

The first Lyle book I've read. Some parts are a little weird unless you've read the other Lyle books that came before. Lyle the family pet causes trouble without meaning to for his neighbor, who gets him committed to the zoo. Lyle doesn't belong and escapes, though fears he'll still never be able to go back home. When he rescues his neighbor from a fire, he is able to return to his old neighborhood and makes new friends in the process.
I missed Lyle as a child, but rather made up for it in my enthusiasm as a parent.
Loretta the cat is very scared of Lyle because she doesn't know him well and assume he is a frightening creature instead of the kind crocodile that he truly is.
Lyle causes a lot of tension within the neighborhood and especially with Mr. Grumps who happens to work at a department store near by.
One day Mrs. Primm and Lyle go to the department store where Mr. Grumps works and Lyle runs into an old friend, Hector P.
After successfully escaping the zoo, Hector knows that Lyle can never return to the neighborhood but decides to drive past his old house one last time.
I thought I'd peek at other works by Waber because I'm such a big fan of his Nobody is Perfick, but where that book felt fun, different, and real, this one felt laboured and uninventive.
There's no reason for Lyle (compared to, say, Paddington), and the resolution comes out of nowhere and is not clever.
I don't get it, and it's hard for me to believe they're from the same pen.
Stop! Freeze - right where you are! Now see this book? Now see your empty hands? This books needs to be in your hands pronto, with your kiddos gathered around, because the 10 to 15 minutes it takes to read this will be positively delightful! You'll thank me, way before you've turned the last page, for stopping you in your tracks like this.You'll all love Lyle. He'll charm his way into your heart, just like he does his unsuspecting neighbor. The pictures are a real treat too!Ages 4+
It was a nice story with illustrations similar to the art style of the Curious George books. I really loved the ending. It was a really charming touch the way it ended. [SPOILERS AHEAD]Even though the cat didn't like Lyle at first, I really loved the cat. The characters were okay, but I wasn't too fond of Signor Valenti even though he helped Lyle escape the zoo.
Clever, cute story about Lyle, a crocodile that lives with the Primm family on East 88th Street, and the trouble he faces because of a grumpy neighbor. The pictures are charming, and it's fun to catch a glimpse of the past. I always appreciate an author that doesn't dumb down the vocabulary for children, but rather writes in a way that the words can be easily understood and assimilated.
This is an older book so there's a lot of text compared to more modern stories. Since it's on the wordy side it's probably better for older preschoolers.Lyle the crocodile is sweet and the book has its funny moments.
When I saw this book on my second-third grader's summer reading list, I admit I thought it would be far too easy a read. Not so! The vocabulary is advanced and the story engaging. The simply colored illustrations are charming and do not detract from the story.
A well written book. Enjoyed reading it.
This book was slightly odd... I am not sure if there were others before this one but it seemed disjointed and confusing.
A well written book. Enjoyed reading it.
It was kind of wordy for a picture book, but the story moved along quickly and it keeps the reader interested. It is a silly little story, and fun.
A well written book. Enjoyed reading it.
Outstandingly funny. I would recommend to all readers young and old.
Lyle ages gracefully over the years. Once kids are introduced to him, they fall in love with him too!
My boys loved this! Great vocabulary words and a fun story.
A well written book. Enjoyed reading it.
Charming story but I didn’t care for the illustration style.
A well written book. Enjoyed reading it.
