https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6249478-moju
Rampo, maestro del ero-guro.Me ha costado seguir leyendo en algunas partes, porque el nivel repulsivo del protagonista y sus actos, como mujer, me resultaba muy incómodo.
Los hay más gore, pero esa combinación de sangre y violencia contra la mujer, ese sadismo que muestra en algunas partes, me erizaba el cabello.Sigue siendo increíble que alguien escribiera esto en 1931.
Con las películas y novelas de hoy en día no parece tan escandaloso, pero en esa época debió resultar casi un escándalo.
Lo políticamente correcto no era ni un concepto, y menos en el Japón de la época.Una lectura para estómagos fuertes, sin duda.
Whereas Strange Tale of Panorama Island was an absolutely great read, the awkward wording in this book has managed to suck all the tension out of this "ero guro nansensu".
When us the blind speak about beauty, it doesn’t correspond exactly to what you may think. That’s because we see with our fingers. Unlike beauty as it is commonly known, ours belongs to the realm of the darkness. En este mundo del nihilismo japonés, el delincuente es un artista poseído por el demonio de las artes, habita la oscuridad y moldea cuerpos de mujeres. El escultor/asesino es un masajista ciego, como Zatoichi, y tiene un talento táctil que lo equipara a una araña. Tiene su estudio en u
En este mundo del nihilismo japonés, el delincuente es un artista poseído por el demonio de las artes, habita la oscuridad y moldea cuerpos de mujeres.
Tiene su estudio en una casa abandonada.
Es un sótano cuyas paredes están cubiertas de relieves con formas del cuerpo humano en diferentes tamaños.
La descripción del estudio es notable, irresistible:What first caught the eye was the confusion of colours, indescribable and highly distressing.
Amongst it all shades of colours, like revolting growths, bruises or even clusters of bacteria seen through a microscope, developing in total disorder, writhing about and tangled up in an indescribable chaos.
If you've seen the movie Blind Beast then you'll want to read this book. It's seven times more perverse and unsettling. And if you're an artist, you might even pick up some tips. A fine example of erotic grotesque nonsense from Japan.
A descrição feita dele, é que se assemelha a um insecto, provocando-me um esgar de nojo cada vez que ele é descrito.Negativo:- A repetição dos actos acaba por cansar.- As mulheres raptadas não dão luta, aceitam o seu destino rapidamente, envolvendo-se com ele na descoberta dos seus corpos (esquecendo-se rapidamente que este homem que parece um insecto, dava-lhes nojo) até isso não chegar e começarem a utilizar a dor e violência para sentir prazer.- Outra vez as mulheres, mulheres do mundo e não jovenzinhas inocentes, que se deixam ir com um homem que elas acham nojento, sem desconfiarem só porque ele é cego.
Mais c'est au départ un court roman écrit en 1931 par le père du polar japonais Edogawa Ranpo.J'avais vu le film en 2005 à l'occasion de sa reprise et ai déniché le roman chez un bouquiniste.S'ils partent d'une trame commune (un aveugle séquestre une jeune femme), le film et le livre prennent des orientations très différentes.Le film, qui annonce "L'empire des sens" de Mishima, baigne dans une atmosphère très seventies d'érotisme sadomasochiste.
Pour y parvenir, il ne séduira pas seulement une femme - sur laquelle le film se concentre - mais plusieurs, transformant le roman en succesion de courtes saynètes un peu répétitives.
Comparada con el resto de novelas de Rampo que he podido disfrutar hasta la fecha, es una obra maestra.
En ocasiones infantilizamos inconscientemente a las generaciones pasadas, pero viendo lo que eran capaces de leer sin apartar la vista, sin haber disfrutado de la cultura visual que llevamos todos nosotros a cuestas, es para quitarse el sombrero.
Hasta el propio Rampo censuró uno de los capítulos del libro, que aquí podemos disfrutar de nuevo.
Sé que pocos compartirán las 5 estrellas que le otorgo a esta novela.
Pero creo que las merece con creces.
Un roman incroyable, dans tous les sens de ce mot. Une bête aveugle que l’on a du mal à imaginer pour une histoire extraordinaire qui choque, surprend, mais, étonnemment, qui m’a procuré un plaisir certain…Article : https://comaujapon.wordpress.com/2018...
For example, I am still unsure as to who the extra limbs belonged to in the bath – did they belong to the blind man or were they yet another dismembered corpse?
And despite re-reading the final page several times, I still can’t understand how the blind man dies or how it was even possible for his body to be suspended above a statue.I’m willing to believe that the weaknesses of this book may be down to shoddy translation, so I’d still give Edogawa Rampo a second chance as his other works certainly look intriguing.
He leído esta novela justo después de "El extraño caso de la isla Panorama", del mismo autor, y en comparación, "La bestia ciega" es mucho más cruda.
Por eso, mientras la isla Panorama yo creo que la pueden leer más lectores sin horrorizarse en extremo, esta última novela solo la recomiendo a lectores acostumbrados a lo macabro, sórdido y truculento, porque hay momentos realmente duros.
De hecho, el propio autor pidió eliminar un capítulo (que en esta edición se ha recuperado) por ser especialmente depravado.Secuestro, relaciones obsesivas y sadomasoquismo, locura, y mucho más, todo salpicado de momentos realmente enfermizos salidos de una terrible mente criminal.
Aïe, aïe, aïe...Je n'ai pas du tout adhéré à La Bête Aveugle, mais alors, pas du tout.Je n'ai pas retrouvé l'écriture si fine d'Edogawa Ranpo et c'est bien dommage, car sa plume est certainement ce que je préfère dans ses récits.Le premier problème que j'ai rencontré, et le plus important au final, est que je n'ai absolument pas cru aux personnages féminins dépeints par l'auteur.
Tout comme on ne peut pas m'écrire qu'une femme a peur sans me communiquer son angoisse et en la laissant carrément de côté...Qui plus, les pensées narrées à la première personne des femmes me semblaient hors de contexte, mal amenées...
Je pense que je vais faire une petite pause dans les histoires d'Edogawa Ranpo pour l'instant.
Una de las mejores obras de Rampo. Innovadora en el papel protagonista, censurada por su brutalidad, por sus descripciones cargadas de sexualidad y sangre. Una obra maestra que no sólo inaugura la serie b, sino que se enmarca como una obra clave en la historia de la novela policiaca
Would be 4* if it were a short story, kinda dragged on but still a nice eroguro piece. Lousy translation.
Would have gotten 4/5 but the english translation was a bit stiff.Absurd, gross, delightful.
Absolutely awful translation. Good novella though, with some questionable parts (the wall of breasts leaking tepid milk).
ummm yah yikes
The translation was stilted and had poor grammar and punctuation at times. Otherwise, it was okay, but far from Edogawa's best work.
I knew Edogawa Rampo as a "Japanese Poe wanna-be" (literally if you take his moniker into consideration) and as a Poe fan was anxious to read something, anything, written by him, which apparently doesn't print very often.Along came The Blind Beast for Christmas, a novella about a blind sculptor with a fetish for the female form.
There's very little flair for aesthesis or poetry in his prose, doesn't delve very much in the description of anything (bar the infamous labyrinth, which seems more grotesque than properly terrifying) and his protagonist is infuriatingly one-note: he is exclusively defined by his fetish (fair enough), yet all we know about it is that (per Rampo) "blind people lack the visual catharsis of the seeing, and as such must build up and get off women in a tactile, violent fashion".
Mi sono avvicinato a questo romanzo breve sapendo che Rampo si considerava una sorta di Edgar Allan Poe giapponese, per dirla all'anglossassone un "Japanese Poe wanna-be".La storia riguarda uno scultore cieco con un'ossessione feticista verso le forme femminili.
Ritengo patetico il modo in cui Rampo descrive l'abitudine del cieco di comparire sulle scene dei ritrovamenti dei corpi smembrati e, ancor peggio, sono le conversazioni con i passanti di turno che scivolano nel ridicolo banalizzando l'intera storia.Veramente non si capisce come i personaggi della storia possano essere stati tanto stupidi da non fare 2 più due e affibbiare il cieco al primo poliziotto di passaggio.
I first heard the name "Edogawa Rampo" from my wife who told me that his writings would give me a certain amount of pleasure.
Rampo is the master of the field that is called "Erotic-Grotesque" in Japan.
He also has a genius in displaying his 'work' either by making sculptures made by human parts, or displaying the corpse or part of the corpse in rather imaginative ways.
Rampo goes for the throat, and what makes him so unique is that he has these amazing set-pieces, that is a combination of creepy, funny, but always filtered through the eyes of an aesthetic soul.
Well, I can tell you the idea of this short story was far more interesting to me than its actual execution.
If it did make justice to the original prose, I must say it has not aged well.The story itself seemed to lack suspense right after the very first sadistic murder, thus ending up repeating itself more than was necessary for such a short tale.
The idea of art for the blind is very fascinating, I'd definitely like to attend an exhibition with nothing but art I am actually allowed to touch to my heart's content.A story that left me without arousing much thought.
The film centers around the first story and takes an equally disturbing perspective.The book contains multiple stories and reads more like a work by Edgar Wallace.
The stories are designed to get under the reader's skin and contain many lurid moments, although less graphic than I imagined.
There is also a tendency to keep the reader at arm's length, as if listening to a narrator tell the story, rather than to place the reader in the middle of the action...which, in this case, may be much the better for those with weak constitutions.A provocative theme centers around experiences that are heightened without the sense of sight.
The visual aspect of the piece seems absurd, but the sense of touch reveals elements that would be otherwise hidden.

MojuOk, this was a weird book.
It was really strange to read it, and considering the ending even more so.
I really don’t know how to grade it.
The only character that is developed is the murderer, and it’s just unlikeable, guess in a way that’s job well done.
The other only one we get to see is the first victim the singer, and the change from kidnapped victim wanting to scape to willing participant really is not shown.
I guess one has to acknowledge the writer for imagining the room where the blind man did all the things, really does paint a weird picture there that indeed is more to bee felt than seen.
I think my favorite Rampo would still be the Hell of Mirrors and the Red Chamber.
Then again, I haven't read his mystery novels - and those are supposed to be where he truly shines.
This work is supposed to work purely on the aesthetic level, since it doesn't have much of characterization or plot.I have a feeling that the translation here is half of the problem, because ornate Japanese is different from ornate English prose, especially since Japanese can condense sentences with Kanji.
It's different from Edgar Allen Poe - the kind of prose that extends and explodes into long bewildering corridors of sentences.
The genre of erogoro (erotically grotesque) is taken to a whole new level in this story, and to be perfectly honest, it could have been a lot better.The protagonist is a blind man who pursues artistic expression through touch, taste and smell. Throughout the story he pursues female victims whom he kidnaps and imprisons in his home, and eventually murders and dismembers. This routine is repeated several times throughout the book, and it quickly gets tiresome.If you're a devoted Rampo reader, you might like it simply for its imagination, but don't expect to be blown away.
If you ever need an example of what ero-guro (erotic grotesque) is, simply pick up this book. It takes Edogawa's knack for conflating hero and villain to a new level and is easily one of the most disturbing pieces of fiction out there...and yet impossible to put down. It also feels less dated than some of his other works, possibly because Law & Order: SVU has primed us for works involving lustmord.
Not sure what to say about this one, as any positive word feels incriminating. Truly, truly skeezy. And the translation/typeset are a train wreck, if that means anything in this context. Wrestling with the amount of "stars" to give, as this defies ratability.
Ero-guro at its peak. The pictures conveys a millions words. I won't need to read anything gross for a while.
2,5/5 Pulp japonés de mitad del siglo XX. Curioso.
