https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/890686.The_Bunny_Book
This covers a variety of jobs a child might dream up for themselves or family members as they guess what they will be when they grow up. It is fun to see kids react to the various careers such as doctor, lifeguard, lion tamer, mailman, etc. So many parents try to guess what their child will be so it can be a fun read for them too.
Even though I knew what the little baby bunny chose to be when he grew up, I would ask for this book to be read again and again. An absolute favorite!Ages: 3 - 7**Like my reviews? I also have hundreds of detailed reports that I offer too. These reports give a complete break-down of everything in the book, so you'll know just how clean it is or isn't. I also have Clean Guides (downloadable PDFs) which enable you to clean up your book before reading it! Visit my website: The Book Radar.
Cute for kids
"I loved it when the little bunny wanted to grow to be a dad."
rock!) but Baby Bunny hasn't thought through the financial implications, the responsibilities he'll still have as the Papa of — what was it?
Given the garden, the overalls, and the hoe wielding by Baby Bunny in his fatherhood fantasy though, I'm thinking there's a tacit acknowledgement on his part that he'll take up farming (maybe running a local CSA?) even while disavowing that path on the previous page.ALSO: Like so many "good" and/or "classic" children's books, this one ends with the characters settling in to bed.
Given how storytime immediately precedes bedtime in this household, I must say that I like how this sets the tone.
I'm glad I turned out to be a daddy bunny.
I was surprised to see that the text wasn't written by Richard despite the cover showcasing his name as the main contributor, much like Tengren's Tawny Scrawny Lion.
Perhaps this was common in the era when this book was weitten as opposed to today's picture books which are an equal collaboration between author and illustrator.
This occurs in a few of the illustrations but I would have liked to see it throughout.The text allows for exploration of a number of topics such as different professions and members of an extended family (which is a must for any rabbit to know).
This is my very favorite children's book.
I tear up every time I read it.
Why, you ask?Well, the book is all about the bunny's relatives speculating on what the little bunny will be when he grows up...a policeman, a candy store owner, a train engineer, a clown, a cowboy, a farmer, etc.
But the little bunny just chews on his carrot and looks wise, because he knows what he will be when he grows up: a daddy rabbit.
He will have lots of little bunny children to feed, to tickle, and to tuck into bed at night.Oh, I just love this book.
I admit that were the titular character female, this book would be a little...demeaning (women can only be mommies?). But since the bunny is a boy, it's sweet to see that he wants to be a daddy. He now just needs someone to tell him he can be both a daddy AND something else.
I do agree with the bunny in wanting to be a bunny... because it's fun to be one
GB 22 (2)
Cute kids book.
read to Rylee by Carol
Cute story about what you can be when you grows up and delightful to see the baby bunny wants to be a bunny like daddy.
Enjoyed this as a child.
The Bunny family all imagine what little baby boy bunny could be when he grows up.
Baby Boy Bunny want to grow up to be a good daddy.
This is one of the collaborations between Patricia Murphy Scarry and her husband Richard Scarry.
Patricia Murphy was a writer of children's textbooks who met Richard during collaboration when he was a textbook illustrator.
She is credited with writing many of the stories in his subsequent children's books, such as Good Night, Little Bear, The Bunny Book, and The Fishing Cat. Age Range: 3 - 7 yearsGrade Level: Preschool - 2
I always loved books illustrated/written by Richard Scarry when I was a child, so it is a real treat to find that my children also enjoy them. The Bunny Book is one of the few that they ask for by name. They have heard it enough that they help me read the story, and we also have heaps of fun talking about the different things they see on each page, as well as all the different jobs the various family members suggest as possible future occupations for the baby bunny.
I know some fathers that are really unhappy with the state of fatherhood in childens' books. This one definitely has a lovely ending where fathers feature prominently, and, while I don't mind as much as he does, as a dad who reads a lot of books to his son I have to say it was nice to have one where we are depicted so wonderfully. A lovely book in any case, with lots of fun ideas of what a baby can grow up to be.
GoodReads has made an error here. There are 2 golden books with the title "The Bunny Book". They are completely different books. However, GoodReads has the cover of one of the books with the summary of the second. The book pictured on GoodReads was written by Patricia Scarry and illustrated by Richard Scarry. The book described was written and illustrated by Richard Scarry.In any matter, Uli has both books.
My 2-year old seems to like this book. The amount of text on each page is about at the upper limit of his attention span, though. Fortunately you can get away with just reading the first sentence and it still makes sense as a story. The pictures are good. He likes to point out familiar objects in the pictures, and label the family members.
Beautifully detailed illustrations. I love the background images, how well everyone is dressed and how all the bunny gentlemen smoke pipes. The story depicts numerous occupations as each relative speculates about what baby bunny will be when he grows up. However baby bunny has his own idea: it involves one of the most important occupations of all.
Wonderful illustrations, but I'd prefer a message where the bunny is a dad AND some other career. My daughter loves this book, but I want that message to be clear from the start: BOTH a career and a family.
My second daughter loved this book every time I would read it to her. The bunny is cute and is learning about getting bigger. My daughter related to that and loved hearing about the toes. Don't ask. This is a fun book to read.
The text in this book does little more than explain the illustrations, but that's just fine. This book is all about the adorable, wonderful illustrations. Except for that clown rabbit. I could easily live without a clown rabbit.
This cute picture book features a baby bunny whose family all speculate on what he will be when he grows up. But baby bunny knows exactly what he wants to be and none of his loving family members have it right.
A very cute and touching story about a little bunny that wants to be a daddy bunny when he grows up.
This story is hilarious!
My favorite childhood book!
I liked this because it was full of bunnies, and it's one that I've kept due to it being a childhood favourite.
This book was one of my childhood favorites. I actually spend scads of money on Ebay to get a better copy of this one along with a few others.
