https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/32626.Books_of_Blood
My favorites are MUSTS (read, read, read!) for those who study the short story; what makes these little nuggets of gold so golden is a true mystery in itself: "Sex, Death and Starshine" cleverly paints a surrealistic picture, rivaling even Dali, of the intermingling of souls with the living (a masterpiece for sure); and "In the Hills, the Cities" has the most memorable "monster" to appear out of the dark subconscious in the longest time, I think, since Frankenstein's demon.
Lastly, I kinda really dug the monster-flick tale "Rawhide Rex" which should be turned into a script (just looked it up, it is), as the climax is better than mostly any I could think of for a monster story.
based upon the evidence of Books of Blood 1-3, Clive Barker sprung into the literary horror world fully-formed, a writer all grown up, already past the awkward growing pains of an adolescent period that other writers of his stature and widespread appeal suffered through before reaching their full powers.
his ability to construct and sustain an intriguing narrative, his resonant themes, his stylistic flourishes, his use of irony and dread and gore and comedy, his strength at detailing truly real and deeply developed characters' lives, his expertise at creating an entire world within the space of a story...
This edition contains Volumes 1-3, a grand total of fifteen stories (sixteen if you include the intro) - a large number of which have been subsequently adapted into movies.Having already been blown away by The Hellhound Heart, I was excited to get into more Clive Barker - and oh boy, this did not disappoint.
However, I do feel like it's necessary to warn people that a high proportion of these stories have a lot of blood and gore in them - it is the Books of Blood after all - so if you're not a fan of this, maybe this collection isn't for you.
I've honestly never read a story like this - such a unique, fascinating idea.
Woooo!That was unexpectedly great.
And gory.
And transgressive as hell.
Reading this book made it clear to me why Clive Barker (who I hadn't read before) is considered an iconic writer.
Sometimes a form of religion or systematic afterlife is involved like in The Midnight Meat Train or Hell's Event.
Other time, it's just off the wall wild and imaginative like In the Hills, the Cities.
Luxuriant, consistant, transgressive...my first experience with Clive Barker is a rather transforming one.Get on that, people and lose your mind.
I didn't have so much fun with a book in quite some time.
One hit wonders – I usually think of such oddities as Nena (99 Red Balloons, UK No 1, 1984) or Aneka (Japanese Boy, UK No 1, 1981), or even Sir Mix-a-Lot (Baby Got Back, US No 1, 1992) – a No 1 hit and then nothing, nothing, nothing.
But of course you do get one hit wonder authors – the toppermost one in that list will be Harper Lee. OMG can you imagine the advance she would have got for her second novel?
In the Hills, the Cities : 5 starsall the other stuff : one star.
Clive Barker es sin duda uno de los últimos herederos de los grandes maestros del terror y merece un lugar al lado de clásicos como Poe, Lovecraft o Stephen King.Durante los 80 y 90 Barker reanimo un género que iba un poco a la deriva y lo hizo con su gran caudal de ideas originales, terroríficas y fantásticas.
Una historia que une la carretera de los vivos con la de los muertos.El charlatan y Jack: Divertida historia donde un pequeño demonio hace de las suyas.En las colinas , las ciudades: El mejor relato del libro, cinco estrellas para una alucinate pesadilla de proporciones gigantescas.
4.5 stars - A couple of things about a couple of stories in volume 3 stopped this being a perfect collection, but it’s damn close!!!
Review to follow...
This Scream Press edition was the first compilation of Clive Barker's Books of Blood tales under one binding (the first and original three volumes).
This was the way Barker meant them to be presented and for good reason.
These 16 horror tales were revolutionary in their lack of sentimentality and their gruesome realism making way for the next generation of horrors writers including the splatterpunks and the bizarro writers.
This one volume edition is hard to find but the two volume and three volume sets are still out there in the bookstores.
Awesome... simply awesome. I am sad it took me thirty years to read this. Dread, The yattering and Jack, Rawhead Rex, and Human Remains were all beyond 5 stars, most of the rest were 4 or 5 stars, and Pig Blood Blues and In the Hills, the Cities being the only not totally awesome tales for me.Great read. Highest recommendation. Not just tearing and carving skin like I was used to from Barker, but there's plenty of that, too.
Fuck... masterful... amazing... off the hook! An insane introduction to an absolute horror genius.
Clive Barker's Books of Blood is a collection of short stories.
But volume one does have some true gems- "The Midnight Meat Train" is a great story about serial killers, a strange train and the horrific City Father; "The Yattering and Jack" was a fascinating, darkly funny story about a minor demon haunting a phlegmatic individual in an attempt to drive him insane.
The last two stories: "Sex, Death and Starshine" and "In the Hills, the Cities"- had some original parts, but overall I didn't care much for the stories (both rate a 3/5) though they aren't bad.
Recuerdos de mi lejana adolescencia. Algunos cuentos son la leche.

New Murders in the Rue Morgue was the best entry in the collection. A very Poe take.
Completely blew me away- the very introduction I found to be enthralling. This was a very different kind of horror, one that didn't lose its sense of identity and roots in mysticism.
I've heard all my life that Stephen King's genius as a horror writer is making the familiar terrifying.
Clive Barker's genius as a horror writer is making the terrifying familiar.
But it truly marks a turning point for horror, where mere ghost stories and rabid dogs would no longer be enough to scare an increasingly jaded readership.
It is the point that allowed for luminaries like House of Leaves and The Ruins, where strangeness and unimaginable horror became the norm.
This was the book that made Stephen King call Barker 'the future of Horror.'I really wish Barker would write some horror again, as his Abarat series does little for me story wise (though the paintings are beautiful) Honestly I've had my fill of sweeping fantasy from this author, especially since with each series I have to learn a whole new complex mythology.Really I'm just dying for Barker to return to the sort of exhilarating, nerve wracking horror that's on display here, with gut punching classics like Rawhead Rex, The Midnight Meat Train, Pig's Blood Blues and In The Hills, The Cities.Note on the cover art.
¿Quién me iba a decir que la mejor lectura del año llegaría en sus postrimerías?
Además, este libro no es ninguna novedad y cualquiera que conozca un poco el mundo del terror (no únicamente en literatura, sino también en el medio audiovisual) sabe quién es Clive Barker.
Aún así, el nivel exhibido por buena parte de los relatos contenidos en esta antología, la diversidad de situaciones en que ambienta el autor sus cuentos, la proliferación de recursos narrativos, las mil y una caras del terror que nos muestra… lo hacen una pieza única, maravillosa y, posiblemente, irrepetible.
Brilliant. Bloody brilliant. Clive Barker writes horror that truly terrifies; his stories aren't cheap thrills, but literary-horror blends that make you think as well as pull the covers over your head. Sex and death almost always go together, as do thrills and disgust, curiosity and foreboding. These stories, with all their gore and existential musings, will forever be imprinted in my soul.Favorites:"The Yattering and the Jack""Pig Blood Blues""Sex, Death and Starshine""Hell's Event""Confessions of a (Pornographer's) Shroud""Scape-Goats""Human Remains""Everybody is a book of blood; wherever we're opened, we're red."--Clive Barker
Back in 1984, Clive Barker made his name within the deeply competitive world of horror with the publication of the first three volumes of the macabre short stories `The Books Of Blood'.
This first collection contains the following short stories: The Book Of Blood - 12 pages "The dead have their highway.
The story was later adapted in 1990 into the graphic novel `Tapping The Vein - Book 3' where it was illustrated by Bo Hampton.
The story was later adapted in 1989 into the graphic novel `Tapping The Vein - Book 1' where it was illustrated by P.
From the very first story, the “frame” so to speak, that explains what the Books of Blood are to the last ghostly saga.
One thing that was a tad lacking for me are the characters and I didn’t realize this until I got to one of the last stories, Scape Goat, which is written in first person and I realized I connected with the main character, Frankie.
She took me more into the story while with the other characters I felt more as if I were watching theirs.
I also appreciated the foreward by Mr. Barker as he reflects on his stories which were written many years ago, the horror genre in general and himself as well and how he has changed.
(not my review): "A friend of mine, years ago, gave me this, and I read the first two stories and was like, “I can’t handle this.” Then I read an interview with Alan Moore, and he was talking about how “Books of Blood” is one of the greatest collections of short stories ever.
I was reading “Books of Blood” on the subway, and this older woman says to me, “Did you get to the one where the guy’s killing the people on the subway?” She goes, “I read that book years ago.
When Clive Barker was introduced to America in the Eighties, he was touted as the dude so extreme that even Stephen King--Stephen F****** King, the bane of soccer moms with teenage boys--genuflected before His British Horror Majesty.And for once, the hype was right.I was immediately blown away by Barker's sex and violence, which shocked even my depraved sensibilities.
Not just the extreme stuff, but things like Yugoslav peasants bundling together to make a leviathan while two British gay guys are trying to enjoy a holiday; a billionaire trying to create a Hell on Earth in the confines of an enormous mansion; a potion turning humans into sex-crazed monsters to the point where holes in brick walls....See, I'm just paraphrasing and already you're corrupted.
Each one of the stories in this collection is unique in a way where you will read it and not find any similarities to the one that came before it.
A lot of them start off quite innocently and make you think they might not be too special, but than the author slaps you in the face and invents some form of supernatural theme to the rest of the story.
The themes are also all over the place but a lot are meant for people with open mind.
As with any other collection of short stories, some stories are better than others.
I got this short story collection last year as a christmas gift and I finished it at the first of the year. Clive barker is a true storyteller of the macabre. I enjoyed all of the stories and if u like horror, then you will enjoy checking the books of blood out.
¡No hay estrellas suficientes para valorar este libro!
we are just the book of bloodit's always red whenever we open it
This prologue, along with closing story "On Jerusalem Street" from Volume Six, was adapted and directed into the film Book of Blood by John Harrison.The Midnight Meat TrainA down-and-out man, Leon Kaufman, falls asleep on a New York subway train, only to wake up at a secret station beyond the end of the line.
It's a ritual that occurs every ten years, but this time, things go wrong, and the Podujevo giant collapses, killing thirty-eight thousand, seven hundred and sixty five citizens horribly.They come upon the smashed bodies of Podujevo and a ravine awash with blood, but at first do not see the City of Popolac walking behind nearby hills.
As with all collections of short stories, some are a lot better than others, as is the case here.In my opinion, Pig blood blues and Midnight Meat Train are the clear stand-outs. Fortunately, none of the other stories are terrible, merely not as great as these two tales.
