https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6266297-tales-of-odessa
Inspired by Odessa’s variegated population, Babel passes in review a rich mix of characters in his stories: thieves, swindlers, smugglers, draymen, shopkeepers, prostitutes, musicians, bourgeois, bankers, craftsmen, beggars, old pious Jews like the storyteller Aryeh Leib, luftmenschen – jacks-of-all-trades living on air, going from town to town buying and selling.
Infatuated with the prose of Gustave Flaubert and Guy de Maupassant, Babel’s living literary hero and mentor, Maxim Gorky – who protected him politically for 20 years - taught Babel ‘extremely important things and sent me into the world’, resulting in his most famous story cycle, Red Cavalry, on the 1919-21 Polish-Soviet war.
So excited to be starting this book.
but Babel had a wealth to share, and these stories of the rough, gangsterish world of Odessa, and his (anti-)hero, jewish gangster kingpin Benya Krik, made his name.
So excited to read this new translation by Boris Dralyuk, a resident of Los Angeles but a native of Odessa.
For Dralyuk, the essence of these beloved stories, about the has always resided in the language, the particular Odessa patois, a Yiddish-flavored, tough guy argot which embodies the temperament and flavor of that melting pot city where Jews and Greeks, Turks and Syrians and Russians, East and West, crime and commerce, came together in a vital, sometimes violent encounter.
But, whilst I’ve not read Babel before, I get the impression this provides a good short introduction to his stories for those who may not want to plunge into a collected edition first time.Thank you to Edelweiss and the publisher, Pushkin Press, for this free advance review copy.
Τα διηγήματά του είναι μικρά κοσμήματα αφαιρετικά γνήσιας περιγραφής της ίδιας της πραγματικότητας του, μικρά βιογραφικά κείμενα παρμένα από τις παιδικές αναμνήσεις του στην Οδησσό, την βασανισμενη ζωή των Εβραίων κατοίκων της, τις ελπίδες και τις διαψεύσεις των μικρών ανθρώπων, τις καθημερινές περιπέτειες, τα λάθη τα πάθη, την παρανομία της Οδησσου και τους ήρωες της που χάθηκαν μετά την επικράτηση της Επανάστασης.
Γνήσιο τέκνο της Μασσαλίας της Ρωσίας, όπως περιγράφει την Οδησσό, κατάσπαρτη από όλους τους λαούς του κόσμου, αλλά πάνω από όλα γνήσιο τέκνο της ράτσας του, αυτής της σκληρής και πεισματαρικης ράτσας των Εβραίων της Ρωσίας που επιβίωσε αιώνες στην άκρη αυτή της Μαύρης Θάλασσας, ζωντανεύει αυτή την επιβίωση με κάθε χρώμα, ιδέα και ζωή.
'Odessa Stories' by Isaac Babel (translated by Boris Dralyuk)3.5 starsAlthough I knew the name of Isaac Babel and a little bit about his life, this is the first book by him that I have read.
This short story collection contains both the better known 'Odessa Tales', and other stories by Babel about his time growing up in Nikolayev and Odessa.This volume opens with an interesting introduction by the translator, giving some background about Babel, Odessa and the context of the stories.I didn't find Part 1, with the tales about the gangsters and misfits of Odessa, very interesting.
Заповедта е подписана лично от Сталин.Интересна е и съдбата на втората му жена Антонина Пирожкова и Исак Бабел се запознали през 1932 г., тогава тя била на 23, а той на 38 години.
Едва през 90-те години на ХХ век бе документално изяснено, че Исак Бабел е бил разстрелян на 27 януари 1940 г.Антонина Пирожкова е работила в предприятието Метропроект, участвала е в проектирането на московското метро.
Запознах се със странното чувство за хумор превъплътено в нещо, което бих определила като сюрреалистично-иронично и детайлно описание, с прекалено много думи, които на места те карат буквално да кръстосаш поглед, но с напредването на книгата, започнах да си давам сметка, че нищо не е случайно, дори хаотичното трупане на думи за украса на текста.
This Pushkin Press edition brings together all of Isaac Babel’s stories with an Odessa setting, in a new translation by Boris Dralyuk.
This part of the city, which Dralyuk compares to London’s Whitechapel or New York’s Lower East Side, led to the development of what one might call Odessa’s “urban folklore”, peopled by gangsters at once reviled for their violence and revered for their roguish charm and peculiar code of honour.The first part of this volume of stories is entitled “Gangsters and other Old Odessans” and includes tales inspired by this “urban folklore”.
The situations described would feel phantasmagoric and absurd; all the better, because it was the real life of that community before it has been destroyed and faded into the past.The second part is autobiographic stories, though i doubt they all really happened to Babel.
And you would understand my doubts if you read the book - the protagonist constantly makes up stories about himself within the stories.
After reading it, one would understand better why so many Jews have supported the revolution and the bolsheviks specifically.The third part are just sketches from post-revolutionary St Petersburg.
Yes, it's a bit uneven, but the best stories here are astounding, switching from jovial tales of childhood that never forget the darkness underneath, to brutally violent stories of antisemitism and crime, all with a language that wants to squeeze out evey possibility carbonated with a dark sense of humour.Take "The Story of My Dovecot", for instance, which starts out as a hopeful story about how the narrator has saved for years to buy the pigeons he wants to raise, then suddenly out of nowhere the bright market day careens into bloody surrealism - My world was tiny, and it was awful.
Somewhere far away Woe rode across it on a great steed, but the noise of the hoofbeats grew weaker and died away, and silence, the bitter silence that sometimes overwhelms children in their sorrow, suddenly deleted the boundary between body and the earth that was moving nowhither.
So now I've found this book and decided to give it a go because of its title.Tales of Odessa is a cycle set in Southern Ukraine, in Odessa, and explores the culture of Odesskaya Jewry.
These stories are fun, if a little violent (if anyone minds), for it deals with gangsters and other misfits.
Violence isn't explicit, though, and it doesn't inhabit every page of the book.
Moreover, I needed a few laughs, and Babel delivered.The use of humour in this book is typical Odessa's humour, in my opinion.
The book is culturally dense, it features many locations, thus a reader might feel a little lost.
If anything, Babel needs more recognition.
Russian literature has (deservedly) a reputation for being utterly depressing and heavy—which is why it’s always a delight to find comic writers like Teffi and Isaac Babel.
The humor in these authors’ stories and feuilletons is caustic and sharply observed, but still makes me smile and chuckle.
This week I read Isaac Babel’s classic collection, Odessa Stories (translated by Boris Dralyuk), about Jewish life in Odessa in the early twentieth century.
Odessa Stories is packed with gangsters, tsarist and communist officials, pigeons, and a lot of slapstick...Read the rest of my review at A Bookish Type.
I received a free copy of this book from NetGalley for review consideration.
Çocukluğunun geçtiği Odesa'da tanık olduğu pogrom, arka mahalleler, çocukluk hayalleri, bir çocuğun ilk aşkı, Gorky'ye adanmış "Güvercinliğimin Öyküsü", "Benya Krik" ismiyle sessiz filmi de çekilen haydut, "Kral" lakaplı Benya Krik'in öyküleri ve bence kitabın en güzel öyküleri olan "Buğday Seferi", "Öpüş", "Karl-Yankel", "İhtiyarlar Evinin Sonu" ve "Ermiş Hipatius'un Sonu"... "Önce bakmayı öğreneceksin. Hep belli bir yöne bakıyorsun; başka yerler içinse, gözlerin yok sanki."
It’s almost as if Viktor Shklovsky’s famous summary of Babel’s style by saying that he spoke in the same tones of the stars and gonorrhea’ as seemingly the demarcation for Pushkin Press’s market segmentation: initially those sober souls in search of transcendence, whereas the latter would prefer a trawl around Odessa’s harbor area and a trip to the brothels - and of course it’s all here.More problematic is that the latter edition (2018) omits three of the tales without any warning to readers - caveat emptor.
Initially I’m able to express a preference for Dralyuk’s translations in comparison with McDuff’s Penguin edition.TBC driving home now.
But since I never even heard of Isaac Babel's stories before reading this, I'll try for a review on this one.The collection is split up into three sections: stories about Babel's famous fictional gangsters, stories about childhood, and the etc bits and pieces.
That's what really stands out in the first batch of stories to me, the brilliant wording that made the stories interesting even when I got lost among all the Russian names and confusion of what exactly happened.The second batch of stories, Childhood and Youth, stands out less because of the snappy Yiddish-infused writing and more for the emotion.
Odessa è una città schifosaOdessa di Babel' è un libro sulla fine di un mondo.
In questa edizione, infatti, sono raccolti tutti i racconti che l'autore scrisse sulla sua città, dall'epoca prerivoluzioria agli anni '30.Nei primi viene magistralmente descritta, con uno stile di scrittura scoppiettante e quasi espressionista, la città dei traffici, del porto e dei quartieri popolari ed ebraici, su cui domina la figura del capo malavitoso Benja Krik, il Re, dotato, come i suoi predecessori e i suoi compagni che scopriremo addentrandoci nei racconti, di una moralità e di un senso di giustizia assoluti, benché non convenzionali.
Jer je nasrnuo na Ruvima Osipoviča Tartakovskog kojeg su oni drugi krstili u Jervrejina i po i "devet nasrtaja".
Rečeno je da je postava debelog novčanika sašivena suzama, a oni drugi su videli Forima Grača kao taljigaša, a on je bio i to i još nešto drugo.
Ležao sam na zemlji a utroba razmrskane ptice klizila mi je niz slepoočnicu.
Lepila se niz obraze, prskala me krvlju i zaslepljivala me.
Nežna golubova utroba lepila se na čelu i ja sklopih poslednje nezatvoreno oko da ne gledam svet koji se pružio preda mnom.
Svet taj beše malen i grozan.
Malen i grozan beše svet moj".
In the short little essay “Odessa,” included in this collection of stories, Isaac Babel seems to say that wanted to be the Russian Maupassant.
Babel had a rich vein of material to mine in his hometown of Odessa, and he made the most of it, filling his stories with a vibrant atmosphere and colorful characters.
But Babel’s characters don’t have the depth of Maupassant’s, and Maupassant has more to say about life.Still, Babel’s stories are well worth reading.
In addition to all the character and atmosphere, the best of them are amusing and even moving.
My favorites were the autobiographical stories in the middle.
Kitabı almadan önce hakkında yazılan yorumları okuduğumda, çeviri memnuniyetsizlikleriyle karşılaşmıştım. Rus klasiklerini çoğunlukla Ergin Altay çevirilerinden okumuş olduğum için okurken hiç rahatsız olmadım, sanırım çeviri diline alıştım.Çeviri mevzusunu bir kenara bırakırsam, Babel, genel olarak kısa olan hikâyelerinde doğup büyüdüğü Odessa'nın sokaklarına iniyor. Sosyal yaşamı kendisinin de dahil olduğu Yahudi halkı çerçevesinden canlı bir üslupla anlatıyor. Ben beğendim, toplu öykülerinin ikincisini de okuyacağım.
3,5Hay gente arrostrada a morir y hay gente que aún no ha comenzado a vivir.
Les Contes d'Odessa sont constituées série de nouvelles présentant un quartier de la ville où Babel passa une partie de ses jeunes années, un quartier juif grouillant de personnages inquiétants qui sous la plume de l'auteur, deviennent des Personnages quasi mythologiques.
En même temps, c'est tellement, tellement sombre, quand on sait ce qui arrivera une quinzaine d'années plus tard."Une énorme erreur a été commise, tante Péssia.
Mais n'était-ce pas une erreur de la part du bon Dieu d'établir les Juifs en Russie pour qu'ils y soient tourmentés comme en enfer?
Author truly loves his heros and talented described their lives and relations in semi-crime Odessa world with its own rules, picturesque people most of whose are Jews.
Rich language and author's style will give a real pleasure to reader.
День сидел в разукрашенной ладье, день подплывал к вечеру, и навстречу вечеру, только в пятом часу, вернулась из города Любка.
Вот вы уехали на три года по делам и набросили мне на руки голодного ребенка...- Цыть, мурло, - ответила Любка старику и слезла с седла, - кто это разевает там рот в моем окне?».

The first part of this book made me think about the other book I read by Babel (Red Cavalry) and I have to admit it was not my favorite.
Some of this stories are really sad and crude, but you have to know the author to appreciate his style, even if I'm sure I wouldn't recommend him to many person.La prima parte di queste storie mi hanno ricordato l'altro libro che avevo letto di Babel (Armata Rossa) e non mi hanno fatto impazzire, ma il resto invece, era molto simile alle storie che racconta Singer, anche se piú crude e dure, e l'ho apprezzato molto di piú.
Chiaramente Babel non é un autore per tutti, ma una volta che si apprezza lo stile é decisamente un autore russo sui generis.THANKS TO NETGALLEY FOR THE PREVIEW!
Eye-opening in a lot of ways.
Babel's facility with language is stunning, the way he interweaves beauty with mundane Soviet realities often stopped me and made me re-read.
As for the stories, they're sketches, they're pre-revolutionary and revolutionary and Soviet life, they're commentary on the way that Jews were treated and perceived, which was never at the forefront of Soviet consciousness, and which it is necessary to remember, at least for those who never really knew or thought about it.
I'm really glad I read this.
Told in a very conversational style. Read for a short classics book club and I am glad I did. The relative starkness of the writing is contrasted with the rich visuals the author is able to give your imagination. It's a set of stories I will probably return to as well. Bonus points for the edition having great book design from the texture of the cover to the size of the edition and the cover art being simple and beautiful.
I actually read this in the Collected Stories of Isaac Babel, and will probably return to the rest of the stories. Babel is touted as a master short story writer of Russia. These stories in particular were rather violent, not surprising since it tells the stories of Russian gangsters, ironically Jewish gangsters. They weren't really my cup of tea but they were ok. I did enjoy reading about some of the effects of the Russian revolution on the community.
Разкази за това как живее, мисли, оцелява, пие, пее и се умножава едно, изтикано в дълбините на града, в покрайнините на света и на общаството, парченце от народ, във времето на грандиозен политически и социален катаклизъм. Книгата е мнага еврейска, много руска, но и много просто човешка. Езикът, хуморът, метафорите, сатирата са много специфични и правят четенето на разказите неповторимо преживяване за читатели с настроени сетива.
Колоритен, закачлив език и персонажи. Първата част ми хареса повече, въпреки струпването на много герои и действие в някои от разказите. Много ме натъжи "Историята на моя гълъбарник" - ужасни спомени от детството но едно дете. „ На този свят никой не усеща новите вещи по-силно от децата. Децата потръпват от миризмата им, както кучето от заешка диря и изживяват безумието, което по-късно като станем възрастни, наричаме вдъхновение.” - в случая много повече от чисто детска сетивност.
Wholly loved this one! Superb writing, with gorgeous, funny, and sometimes tragic descriptions of people and local landmarks in an enchanting old Odessa at the beginning of the 20th century. Gangsters, revolutionaries, social upheaval - lots to enjoy here. A rich read. Recommended.
"Tutti sbagliano: anche Dio." (Gente di Odessa, p. 19)
