https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2150244.The_Adventures_of_Sam_Spade_and_Other_Stories
Και τώρα έχουμε να κάνουμε με μια συλλογή, η οποία αποτελείται από επτά διηγήματα, στα τρία εκ των οποίων συμμετέχει ένας άλλος χαρακτηριστικός ντετέκτιβ του Χάμετ, ο φοβερός Σαμ Σπέιντ, τον οποίο μπορεί να γνωρίσει κανείς εις βάθος στο πολύ καλό μυθιστόρημα "Το γεράκι της Μάλτας".
Πάντως οφείλω να παραδεχτώ ότι δεν εντυπωσιάστηκα τόσο από τα διηγήματα στα οποία συμμετείχε ο Σαμ Σπέιντ (εννοείται ότι μου άρεσαν βέβαια), όσο από δυο άλλα: Το "Ο συνένοχος", όπου πρωταγωνιστής είναι ο Άλεκ Ρας, ένας πανάσχημος ιδιωτικός ντετέκτιβ, καθώς και από το "Είχα έναν αδερφό", ένα διαμαντάκι μ'έναν απλοϊκό νεαρό μποξέρ και τον μάνατζερ-αδερφό του.
I was always under the impression that The Maltese Falcon was the only Sam Spade story that Dashiell Hammett wrote. Wrong!. He also wrote three short stories featuring Spade: A Man Called Spade, They Can Only Hang You Once and Too Many Have Lived which are collected in this short book. They are typical of most of the detective stories written in the 1940s....short, concise, and no surprises or red herrings. Just hard nosed detection by Spade much to the delight of the fan of this genre. Look for this little known book....you will be glad you did.
After I read The Maltese Falcon I went hunting for more Humphrey Bogart Sam Spade stories.
The result was this 1945 collection of short fiction by Dashiell Hammett.
There are only three Sam Spade stories here but they are full of the cold-hearted wise-cracking charm that makes the detective so memorable.
Never bet against Sam. And never trust the dames.The other four tales range from mysteries to atmospheric period pieces but they all have the sharp and rough style of Hammett.
I liked them all but the gem of the book is the last story titled "His Brother's Keeper" about a simple-minded boxer and his smarter and not necessarily wiser brother/manager.
I picked this up because Sam Spade in the Maltese Falcon is one of my favorite books and movies and wanted more Spade.
The three Spade stories the only other stories that Spade appears in are good, but my favorite story in the collection, "The Assistant Murderer" introduces a completely different kind of PI.
Rush is smart not like the thuggish brute he looks like.If you liked Maltese Falcon this would be an interesting read, but make sure you read the Alex Rush story as well for the terrific plot.
Dashiell Hammett was one of the two greatest writers of hardboiled detective fiction (Raymond Chandler being the other), and his best (in my opinion) novel, THE MALTESE FALCON, featured the iconic private eye Sam Spade.
But the final story in the collection, a tale about boxing called "My Brother's Keeper," is a classic, one of the best short stories I've read in a long time.
I found the collection of stories in A MAN CALLED SPADE a letdown, not because the stories aren't well-written, but because they don't reflect the full brilliance of Dashiell Hammett--except in "My Brother's Keeper." In that story, he proves himself a master all over again.
He proves his mastery of the short story, from what could be considered to be a short short to what is almost a novella, managing to give us images of what, to us, is a bygone era, in few words.
Although they can all easily be read at a single sitting, I would recommend savoring them; only then (as Ellery Queen so aptly put it) does Hammett the romantic show himself.
This book is not only for Hammett completists.For the student of literature and the budding writer, there is much to find here.
Hammett was nothing if not a wordsmith, bending words to fit his images and characterizations.
His other four stories - "The Assistant Murderer," "Night Shade," "The Judge Laughed Last" (which is indeed a bit of a laugh) and "His Brother's Keeper" are as terse and quick as the Sam Spade tales.
"Brother's Keeper " is more of a noir boxing tale, and one that will stay with you.These stories originally were published in The American Magazine, Colliers, Mystery Magazine and others.
Too many have livedAs we liveFor our lives to be Proof of our living.Too many have diedAs we dieFor their deaths to beProof of our dying.— Eli Haven— Too Many Have Died"The trouble with this country is that the courts have got a stranglehold on it! Law? There ain't no law! There's courts and there's judges, and this thing you call the law is a weapon they use to choke human enterprise, to discourage originality and progress”. —Old Man Covey—The Judge Laughed Last
I like the straight talk and slang in all the short stories in the book. It was fun trying to figure out who the private eye in each story was going to finger as the culprit at the end of each story. Nice little travel back to the 40s.
The first three stories in this collection feature Sam Spade. This character is best known from the Maltese Falcon. But, he is also in these short stories.
This volume is out of print, but what it is is the 1945 collection of Hammett's three Sam Spade novelettes along with several other noirish short stories.
The Spade stories read like good fanfic, which sounds odd to say since it's his own character.
There just isn't enough *there* there for me to be completely satisfied.Still, Sam Spade is an alluring character.
This book was recommended to me from a friend who is 60 years old and he said to me that Hammett is 
A couple of kind of middling stories by Hammett--really more character studies than true mysteries, as his detectives mostly seem to solve the case by following people around until the murderer cracks and spills it all--and a couple of hard punches to the gut. The last story, "His Brother's Keeper" is really, really good and painful.
Woe is me. I actually didn't want this short story collection to be my first Hammett. I wanted to read -- surprise, surprise -- The Maltese Falcon. But it was trapped inside my harddrive and my processor is fried. So I had to settle for this, and this was a tad disappointing.
A few good ol' detective stories. They are each quick, fun reads and have the authentic feel of something written in another time. Sam Spade is the detective in a few of them, but it could have been any detective - there isn't anything that really points back go Maltese Falcon.
I didn't enjoy so much the story as I would like to ...
A Real Treasure! Well Worth Reading!
