https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/420816.The_White_Book
Man, it's a good thing that there aren't homosexual males today who are shamed by society and emotionally battered by jocko, bible-beating dads, preachers, politicians, and education systems into disingenuous heterosexual marriages with women they could never truly love, often driving them to live self-hatred-inducing double-lives rather than face their true selves because they are afraid of being rejected by the culture at large and/or disowned by their families, friends, and/or spiritual communities, while those who do decide to embrace their inner worlds outwardly live in constant danger of bigotry manifested as violence and government/church interference in their bedrooms, hearts, and homes, and it all too often ends tragically for all concerned because a simple fact of nature couldn't be embraced by the inbred, Christ-juicin' minds of the masses, or this book may have been really depressing and insightful, even nearly a hundred years later.
Also, still sadly relevant.
However, in this book Dargelos dies in consequence of a foolish swim in an icy Seine.(**) In a sensitive, flexible prose Cocteau takes us through the life of a boy who cannot understand himself because he is unspeakable - he is presented with gargoylish images of himself, if the matter is even permitted to be brought up.
And "La guerre des boutons", too.(**) This is the only book of Cocteau in which Dargelos dies.
Love between men is not a normal thing in the narrator's society (nor is it even today, though it is tolerated and largely accepted as a marginal faction), it is "in bad taste - it tastes bad" - there is something unnatural about it, because nature as society has constructed love is between man and woman.
This is not a feel-good novel with trite moralizing, but rather the pained and impassioned struggle and persistent (even at the end) confusion of a man beset against what he has absorbed from society as "normal" and as "real" - he does not find true love, he finds failure and struggle, he finds fleeting images, throbs of physical and emotional stirring, but ultimately he is yet to manifest his own definitions.

Um excelente livro e uma soberba tradução e apresentação de Aníbal Fernandes. Não só inclui a autobiografia sexuada, publicada sem o nome do autor, sendo a primeira tiragem de apenas 21 exemplares, como, também, descreve os cinco anjos de J.C., cinco jovens artistas, três deles que morrer muito jovens: Raymond Radiguet, Jean Desbordes, Marcel Khill, Jean Marais e Edouard Dermit.
Ik neem aan dat dat de reden is waarom u mij vraagt het te illusteren en waarom ik uw voorstel aanneem.Het ziet er inderdaad naar uit dat de schrijver 'Le grand écart' en mijn werk niet slecht vindt.Maar hoe gunstig ik ook denk over dit boek - of het nu al of niet van mij is -, ik wil er niet mijn naam onder zetten omdat het dan een autobiografie zou worden, en ik behoud me het recht voor mijn eigen autobiografie te schrijven, die nog veel opmerkelijker zal zijn.
Ik zal daarom slechts via de tekeningen mijn waardering uiten voor deze anonieme poging een terrein te ontginnen dat al te zeer is verwaarloosd.Jean Cocteaumei 1930"En daarmee is alles gezegd over deze korte, poëtische klassieker van de herenliefde (zie ook Luc Boudens' 'Op eenzame hoogte').
Purtroppo l'edizione italiana della Guanda non contiene anche i 18 disegni dell'autore che invece compaiono nell'originale.Ciò che narra Cocteau è lo scarto che intercorre tra il formarsi di una sessualità che all'epoca era considerata normale e quella invece omosessuale: si tratta di un racconto denso di sofferenza, una sorta di via crucis in cui ogni tappa è rappresentata da un amante diverso e quindi da un raggiro e un dolore più grande, un susseguirsi di piaceri unicamente carnali che non trovano una controparte spirituale, psicologica ed emotiva, accompagnati solo da senso di colpa e di inadeguatezza.La vita di un "invertito" sembra potersi comporre solo di bugie, finzioni e doppiezze; quello che io ho percepito è un continuo senso di tensione e insoddisfazione verso se stessi, l'ansia di provare ad essere come gli altri, sapendo fin dall'inizio di andare incontro al fallimento.
" The arched bodies are riveted together at the sex; grave profiles cast thoughtful downward glances, turn less quickly than the tripping and now and then plodding feet.
Free hands assume the gracious attitudes affected by common folk when they take a cup of tea or piss it out again.
A springtime exhilaration transports the bodies.
"----" The sun is a veteran lover who knows his job.
He starts by laying firm hands all over you.
There's no getting away, he has a potent grip, he pins you and before you know it, you discover, as always happens to me, that your belly is covered with liquid drops similar to mistletoe.
I love Cocteau - his movies, his writing and his hot doodles of naked men!
The anonymity provokes a tragic honestly. The words dance across every last page, charming the reader the whole way through.
Deslumbrante de inteligencia, sensual y amargo.
On the other hand, there are reasons why people think or may be confuse the two terms – acceptance and tolerance, and more so when it comes to sexual orientation.
With such thoughts I am talking about a book I read a long time ago and now reread it, dealing with sexual orientation and how it impacts people.
The book is about his affairs, his school, his desires, his wanting to fight those desires and finally coming to terms with them.
“Le Livre Blanc” is about coming to terms with who you are and what are its implications.
A brilliant little book. Anger, love, violence and longing. A complete contrast to modern romantic gay fiction, and despite it never being formally acknowledged by Cocteau, unmistakeably him.
Once, a Narcissus who pleased himself approached his mouth to the mirror, pressed his lips to it and pressed his adventure with himself all the way through to the end. Invisible like the Greek gods, I put my lips to his and imitated his gestures. Never was he to know that instead of reflecting him, the mirror had acted, had lived and loved him.Interesting to see some veritably ancient gay lit that criticizes the tired story of tolerance.
Un bel libro: carico di emozioni, di sofferenza, di erotismo. La dura lotta, di un omosessuale dei primi del novecento, contro se stesso e la società miope ed ipocrita, che derubrica ed avvilisce l'amore tra uomini, talvolta a semplice vizio, altre volte a grave peccato di pederastia. Una sofferenza che è un "fil rouge" di molti racconti gay, e che ancor oggi è terribilmente attuale.
Pseudo-erotismo francés en prosa poética y con millones de metáforas.Este libro puede o encantarte o defraudarte. Personalmente, no me encantó. Menos mal es cortito, única razón de que no lo haya archivado en mi DNF.
Historical value mostly. Gay and bisexual love in Bohemian circles in Paris and surroundings (= casual gay + paid ) during 1910-1927.Drawings are a plus. As are descriptions of fluidity among characters
1.5
Le Livre Blanc (The White Book)By: Jean Cocteau  Le Livre Blanc a descriptive narrative and also as a historically significant and socially important case study on homosexual culture.
He tries and fails at relationships and love; a lot like people do today.
The author is trying to state that it's difficult to be who you are in this world.
The art work in this book that Jean had done him self are not the most appropriate but that's what I like about the book because it is not censored it gives you a raw and real feeling of what's going on.
I had expected a dull social tract but instead found a very funny story of a boy's sexual awakenings through school into early manhood.
And the unnamed translator is clearly sympathetic, a welcome change.
What begins as a laughing-out-loud gay shoolboy's tale, readable as a modern short coming-out story, ends with his moving cries, "A social vice makes a vice out of my outspokenness...But I am not willing just to be tolerated.
That wounds my love of love and of liberty." It took thirty years for the first English translation to appear, which includes Cocteau's own erotic line drawings.
LOVE HAS TO BE REINVENTED - says book just few lines before the end...
this very thin book by Cocteau is very direct without wasting one word and still, say more than hundreds of pages without sense.
story of man who deal with his sexuality, his 'tastes' for men, facing the religious cruelty.
story of evil and good.
one could say it is not anymore so bad for gay person in 21st century.
i would;t be so sure about it.
i can very intimately relate to this story of shame, looking for not much but love and freedom of one's nature feelings.
Cocteau traccia una sorta di autobiografia dei sensi e del suo sentire attraverso questo libretto nel quale i personaggi, molto spesso tipi (il centauro, gli zingari, il compagno di classe possente, il pappone) vengono vivificati dal suo sguardo.Uno dei passi più belli, l'incontro di labbra sullo specchio.
Exquisite. The origins of Cocteau's homosexuality - his struggles with it because of its overlap with the notion of authentic "love", the inner conflict between sensuality and spirituality and how the artist in himself takes the final call. Very short and succinct book with some amazing sections.
Not the best book I've read, but it was a nice and rather easy read. What saddened me most about this book is that it's been almost 100 years since it's release and yet the problems it describes are still relevant today.
Love Cocteau's drawing matched with this anonymous piece of writing. Pretty intense and fascinating.
http://abt.cm/19cmRl2
Puterio fránces de primera categoría
3.5I loved the prose.
At least it was short. Maybe there is a reason why I was never, ever ever became a Francophile, even a little bit. I just don't get it.
