https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/53009.Funeral_Rites
Jean Genet's tribute to his dead lover is a spell against the death of love.When desperation is so overwhelming that hope has nothing to lose anymore, then we start living again; we are born again.
After the burial, the grieving author is increasingly drawn toward the people who had most affected the last days of the young partisan's life: the boy's step-brother (a hustler, petty thief and occasional collaborator of the Nazis); his mother, whose tragic, heroic sordidness is the embodiment of a whole nation's state of mind, and the German lover she keeps hidden in her apartment; his girlfriend, who was bearing another man's child; and his imaginary murder.
Most of this book is a series of sexual encounters between French resistance fighters, Nazis, and Genet himself, whose contempt for French society allows a curiously apolitical view of the historical events depicted.
Genet mourns his fallen soldiers by writing himself through a series of violent sex dreams, resurrecting the dead on both sides of the barracades in an attempt to exorcise the trauma of his own long incarceration.
It is impossible not to be horrified and equally impossible to reject Genet for reasons of immorality, although I suppose to most 21st century readers are too glib and detached and politically correct to experience in any way the power of this difficult novel.
Three seconds later, I realized it was the bulk of the Church of the Trinity, but for three seconds I had felt the horror of my condition, of my poor helplessness in the presence of what seemed in the darkness (and less in the August darkness of Paris than in the thicker darkness of my dismal thoughts) to be the angel of death and death itself, both of them as unyielding as a rock.
And while it might seem hard for even a practiced rebel and flouter of convention to appear more outrageous than the war's atrocities, Genet is equal to the task, embodying and desecrating even Hitler in the course of his narrative, which climaxes with a cannibalistic ritual in which the flesh of his dead lover serves as a host-like corpus amoris.Genet's books were among the first gay material available to me as a teenager (purchased at the Mic Mac Mall in Dartmouth, no less) and the timing was perfect.
Genet is a shape shifter and this novel is a map of those people affected by, or related to the death of his lover.
In order to cope with his grief, he imagines the interiors of the cast of souls related to the departed, among them the executioner, in Nazi occupied France.
Like a series of mirrors the novel folds and unfolds.
By seeing his own face in the faces of his lover, his lover's executioner, the soldiers lying quietly on the roofs of Paris, he is able to possess them.
However, I'm only giving it three stars because aside from the stellar prose, I really didn't care for Funeral Rites.
The stream of consciousness makes Genet's prose at times difficult to follow.
There were times I had to flip back to understand the shifts from present action to past action to fantasy to details presented from a first-person narrative in which I think Genet was putting himself into another character's shoes to share their portion of the tale.
I say think because I'm still not 100% sure.Funeral Rites is for the philosophical intellectual or anyone on hallucinatory drugs.
I dig the intensity although I found it flamboyant and overly dramatic at times.
It's not easy reading--Genet never is and this is him at his most difficult, his daring you the hardest to judge him. But I needed this right now.
في المدرسة حصل جان جينيه على اعلى درجة في كتابة موضوع إنشائي من بين زملائه جميعا واحتفل فيه المدرس وقرأ موضوعه على الطلاب وفيما هو يمتدح قدرات الفتى الصغير الانشائية قفز احد الطلبة وقال بصوت عالي : ولكن يا سيدي ان جان لَقيط ...
سكت المدرس وتفاجئ ولم يكمل مديحه سكت لان جان كان لقيطا ...
عند دخول القوات الألمانية الغازية باريس فرح جينيه وقال تعالو ودمروا باريس ودمروا كل من احتقرني ...
كتاب غامض يتداخل الجنس والموت بأسلوب خاص هو اُسلوب الذي كتب عنه سارتر مجلدا بعنوان ( القديس المتشرد ) اُسلوب جان جينيه المتفرد ..
كتاب لا انصح الكل بقراءته
It seems to me that he takes high Baroque Catholic sentiment and uses it to describe things that no-one is supposed to describe because the experiences are deemed to be outside of "normal" moral behaviour.
Yet he manages to transcend the disgust attached to these experiences and produces a prose of luminous beauty.
The translation at times is a bit too much like 1930's American gangster films when it tries to convey Genet's use of slang, but no matter - the book is so unique, so exquisite, that it really has a soul of it's own.
مفهمتش حاجة
نادراً ما تهديني الصدفة روايات كهذه. قلت سأقرأ شيء لجان جينيه ، أي شيء ، وجاءت هذه الرواية بصدفة محضة.مثلها قد لا يكون مردودها الفكري كبيراً ولكن مجرد قرائتها تريك سطورها التي تدخلها مصاف الروايات العالمية.ينبغي الإشارة الى كونها رواية صعبة ، لا احب هذا النوع من السرد الذي يتبعه الكاتب في ما يعرف ب" سرد الماضي" ، دونما إشارة!يتكلم ، سطر ونقطة. ويليه سطر مباشرة بعده يتكلم عن موضوع اخر في زمن اخر ، ولا يوضح الشخصيات ولا يشرحها ويعرفنا بها كفاية.ولكنها رواية مختلفة جداً ، بالوان "قوس قزحية" كثيرة!!
My, I read a lot of French literature (in translation) this summer - this one came from Josh Feldman's giveaway pile at last year's NYC Marathon party, but I only got to it after some improbable stylistic comparison emerged to someone else I had recently read - Clarice Lispector perhaps?
Whoever it was, they certainly weren't offering 300 pages of rough trade sex that make William Burroughs seem circumspect.
As such, it seemed long at times, but the master-slave dialectic of German soldiers in occupied WWII France adds a political dimension to the sexual one that is quite thought-provoking - also the writing is mostly brilliant.
My first contact with Genet was the cover of this book sighted at a used book store.
The cover shot of Genet somehow caused a gaydar ping.
I bought it, and read it, and read it a few more times, and then always looked for more.
Oh, Genet, I still chuckle thinking of you on assignment from Esquire being sent to Chicago to cover the Democratic National Convention and hanging out with the Black Panthers.
None of that is in this typically hallucinatory book of course, but still, one can't think of handsome criminals being punished and executed all day.
What a trip. Gorgeous, each sentence a work of art, yet so cumbersome to read as a whole... it begs reading again but it's so abstract I'm exhausted. It is brilliant in bringing together death and love, horror and beauty. All the while fitting erotic fantasy into every possible train of thought. But a chapter break here and there would have made it more comprehensible.
One can't get better then Genet. A heartbreaking book on one hand and yet a reflection on the nature of evil on the other. Love is important in Genet's world, but it is also a journey of sorts from the darkest part of the heart to the other side. If you can get to the other side that is...
Read this book while in college it was a part of two different classes.One was prison lit the other was gay lit. Seeing that i went to a Catholic college and both classes were taught by nuns I was shocked.An interesting book but very dark indeed.
مهما كانت سرديتك جميلة يبقى الموضوع هو الاهم ،،، بين المرسل - الرسالة - المرسل اليه ،،، حقيقة لا تهمني فحوى رسالته ،،،
Just re-reread it. Destroys me every single time.
Read it, wait twenty years and read it again. Brilliant. This book is vital, sublime, this book is perfect.
Whoa...

Este fue un libro dificilísimo de leer, no por su prosa sino por su estructura.
Añadamos a esto el hecho que Genet salta entre varios focos narrativos sin el menor deseo de aclarar quien es “yo” en cada caso.
Lamentablemente, no encontré mucho que fuera de valor en esta obra con la posible excepción del valor que tuvo Genet en hablar francamente del amor sexual entre dos hombres.
Aunque sé que para muchas personas este libro tiene un gran valor literario, yo no pude encontrarlo.
A friend of mine called Jean Genet "a dirty little Frenchman" and although he's so much more it's an incredibly good description of him.
This is a long lament for Jean's lover who was killed in German occupied France during WWII.
This was Genet's last novel and is a brutal, erotic, and disturbing look at the Resistance movement in Paris.
It explores the themes of sex and death tirelessly and the thin line between love and hate.
Gender and political lines are blurred in the relationships and buggery carried on by soldiers and fighters in the resistance.
As I so often write here, it's been a long time since I read this.
Nonetheless, it's a no-brainer that Genet is, for me, a very important writer.
There was a time when I lived in an apartment w/ only 8 key bks.
"Funeral Rites", or something else by Genet, was one of them.
The clear thinking & blatant perversion as a political act are right up my conceptual alley even if Genet & I are very different personalities otherwise.
I'm happy to say that I still haven't read "Querelle" yet so there's at least one Genet bk left for me to savor.
Totally brilliant. Six stars if I had another. Somehow in his meandering and indeterminate narrative, in which sexuality and male homosocial behavior are generally at the forefront, Genet offers stunning insight into the rituals surrounding death and mourning and gets to the very heart of what loyalty means, in death, love and war. In this book "about" occupied Paris during World War II, Genet enacts the complete obliteration of empty nationalism, showing human violence for what it is.
Genet's lament for a dead lover told during the final days of Nazi occupation of Paris. The story winds its way in and out of fantasy in dreamlike ways, obsessed with eros and thanatos: the imagery is captivating and uncanny. Genet was a convicted murderer and avowed homosexual so not for all tastes.
didn't finish this one, but i plan to come back to it soon. the story didn't really grab me, but there's definitely something there... i wish i could be more specific but i guess i can't. also, the translation is amazing. i don't speak french, but i've rarely read a translation that is such confident prose in its own right.
i know i know. finally i've read another book. and well. this book was quite easy to read in a short time and a terrific book to read alone at a bar. actually, probably the only way to read this book. so if you've got some of that kind of time on your hands and want to read some excellent prose, pick it up.
Jean Genet edebiyatı, rastladığım en eşşiz, biricik edebiyat örneklerinden. Bu romana bazen 1, bazen 5 yıldız vermek istedim. Çok rahatsız edici, hayat kadar pis, yaralayıcı, ters-yüz edici ve hayat dolu.
I had to bail on this. I feel like I appreciate things that I imagine it might have influenced (The Beautiful Losers perhaps?) more than it. I liked the elliptical style and the transgression of it all but it truly got tedious toward the midway point.
