https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/60930.Bloodchild_and_Other_Stories
"Those whom we love are often the most alien to us." —Christopher PaoliniMy review centres on Bloodchild, the better-known segment in this anthology - an extremely short sci-fi story, recommended to me by @apatt and @cecily.As the story’s curtain rises, we are led into an intriguing scene of surreal domestic bliss, whereby (view spoiler)[‘something’ resembling a walking lobster/scorpion is casually cuddling up to a human on a sofa.(Please excuse my flippancy, it’s way more evocative and macabre
—Christopher PaoliniMy review centres on Bloodchild, the better-known segment in this anthology - an extremely short sci-fi story, recommended to me by @apatt and @cecily.As the story’s curtain rises, we are led into an intriguing scene of surreal domestic bliss, whereby (view spoiler)[‘something’ resembling a walking lobster/scorpion is casually cuddling up to a human on a sofa.(Please excuse my flippancy, it’s way more evocative and macabre than I’ve described.
(hide spoiler)]The story is told from the viewpoint of Gan, one of many earthlings subjugated by an alien species (the Tlics) to be used as (view spoiler)[breeding hosts (a similar premise to The Handmaid’s Tale: enslaved and nurtured for the sole purpose of impregnation and fertilisation (hide spoiler)] - only with a volte-face spin on things).
But at first, it’s a pleasant enough domestic scene: among the family, sipping a soporific but rejuvenating egg, snuggling against the velvet underside of someone’s (something’s?!) embrace.The awareness of mysteries and taboos grows slowly, seeded by careful choice of vague but uneasy words: the need for one’s people to be “available”, concern about thinness, “choosing” an infant, living in the Preserve… And then there is a gross-out scene.
And choice, especially about family, is the beating, bleeding, bloody heart of the story.
A story of coming of age, adoption, family, sacrifice, symbiosis, improbable love, impregnation, and birth, against a background of enslaved refugees.
My review, as well as my other thoughts on reading, also can be found on my blog.A collection of seven speculative short stories, featuring a pair of essays on writing, Bloodchild uses the tropes of science fiction to probe existential questions and imagine alternatives to the present.
The fiction ranges from considering what a world stripped of speech might look like, to questioning how one might create a utopian society if granted godlike powers.
The essays were a highlight of Bloodchild, and while I’m not a fan of sci-fi, the stories were so thoughtfully constructed that I enjoyed the collection as a whole.
This year’s Hugo winner  N.K. Jemisin, a black female science fiction author, calls Butler her “personal grandmaster” and that “left behind a lot of children, spiritually speaking”.Young OctaviaBloodchild and Other Stories contains five (mostly great) short stories and a couple of excellent essays.
According to the Afterward, Butler was inspired by something that frightened her and she coped by making the idea benign (in a gross sort of way), it is also a thought experiment on male pregnancy; don’t worry, I am not giving anything away because there is no male pregnancy as such in the story.
Bloodchild is a collection of short stories by the famous science-fiction writer Octavia Butler.
Butler's ideas are as complex as her characters, and that makes her stories resonate in a very real and powerful way.Usually, this would be the part of the review where I would tell you which stories were my favorite and which ones to skip, but I can't really do that with this collection, because they are all absolutely worth reading.
I believe that Butler's most famous stories are Bloodchild and Speech Sounds, both of which are in this collection and both of which are absolutely mind-blowing.
"Once you go alien, you really do never go back."—Gini KochBloodchild outlines a symbiotic relationship between earthlings (Terrans) and the Tlic, native inhabitants of a new world that humans have fled to for safety.
The story is told from the perspective of Gan, a young human male on the cusp of becoming one of those chosen.
Gan explores what being selected means to him and his family, as the horror of becoming a (view spoiler)[surrogate (hide spoiler)] is made clear through a series of unexpected events.
In true short story tradition, Butler masterfully captures the imagination of the reader in this brisk, gender-twisting tour de force.
This year’s Hugo winner  N.K. Jemisin, a black female science fiction author, calls Butler her “personal grandmaster” and that “left behind a lot of children, spiritually speaking”.Young OctaviaBloodchild and Other Stories contains five (mostly great) short stories and a couple of excellent essays.
According to the Afterward, Butler was inspired by something that frightened her and she coped by making the idea benign (in a gross sort of way), it is also a thought experiment on male pregnancy; don’t worry, I am not giving anything away because there is no male pregnancy as such in the story.
"Speech Sounds"In a dystopian setup, people lost their abilities to read, understand words, speak, hear, etc because of a disease. Still, in such a dark, somber and depressing world, there is hope and humanity might still have the will to survive and to communicate with each other.It is one of those short stories with a weight beyond words; loved it to pieces.
well, an awful lot of feelings!I will not attempt to summarize the stories in this collection of short fiction: that whole book can be devoured in a couple of settings, and if you enjoy speculative fiction, you owe it to yourself to check this out.
The prose is clean and elegant, never didactic but always thought-provoking.My edition also includes two essays about writing, which would honestly be worth the price of the whole book, because anyone who has ever even thought of writing can benefit from Ms. Butler's thoughts on the matter.These stories are truly beautiful and not a single word of them is wasted.
This was my first Butler book and, as it turns out, I adore the writer as much as I adore the writing.
Who couldn’t fall for someone who sets out to write a pregnant man story (“Bloodchild), and gets real about that day she was so disgusted with humans and our inability to communicate with each other that she had to tell a grim tale about the end of communication through words (“Speech Sounds”)?
For this reason, please don’t pass over the afterwords following each story or the two essays at the end.
Zainab Williamsfrom The Best Books We Read In June: http://bookriot.com/2015/06/30/riot-r...
Expecting the titular "Bloodchild" to be the pinnacle of the collection, I passed over most of these tales. Boy, was that stupid. "Speech Sounds" and "Amnesty" are equally fascinating and compelling. A personal and enthralling collection.
Bloodchild  - ljudska kolonija na nepoznatom, naseljenom planetu mora "platiti stanarinu" tako što će biti domaćin larvama parazitske rase koja tu živi. Osvrt.- 5/5 The Evening and the Morning and the Night  - genetska bolest DGD izaziva samoozljeđivanje i psihozu pa se oboljele već na prve znake bolesti zatvara u institucije gdje mogu samo sebi nauditi. U odgađanju završnog stadija pomaže posebna dijeta, a oboljeli moraju nositi i posebne ambleme. U pogovoru Octavia kaže da je ova priča nastal
- ova priča je, kako Octavia piše u pogovoru, inspirirana pričama o incestu u Bibliji.
- ovu priču o ženi koja radi repetativne, naporne fizičke poslove i koju progoni demon iz prošlosti (u obliku halucinacije - nema nadnaravnih, fantazijskih ili SF elemenata) Octavia je napisala kad je i sama radila takve poslove, progonjena "demonom" sumlje, jer nije uspjevala prodati priče i bojala se da će poludjeti.
Ovo je odlična kolekcija i skoro bi dao peticu, jer su čak i dvije priče kojima sam dao dvojku - Near of Kin i Crossover s razlogom ovdje - iako su osjetno slabije od ostalih, i u njima se nalazi dio Octavije.
Regardless of its “true meaning,” Blood Child will make you think, which is so often the way with Octavia E.
Her command of prose, her perfect weighting of every element in this tale, the information she gives and withholds, it is all the work of a master short story writer, and I can’t help being pissed off at her for not writing more tales of this beauty and economy (but then I remember all the wonderful novels she’s given us and I don’t stay pissed long).I will say nothing about the plot, but even if you don’t read Blood Child as a book, find The Evening and the Morning and the Night.
I am floored. Every single story knocked me out. This is my first work by Butler. What I love about the 2 essays in particular is that she takes the most mundane happenstances and turns it on its head. She pulls this knotted, nasty, tangled web of characters out of anything from a bus ride or disease. I was enthralled the entire time.
I think that everything Butler ever wrote deserves 5 stars.This book is much too short (as was Butler's time on this earth). It includes five previously published stories, an autobiographical essay, an essay on writing, and two new-to-this book stories.As well, it includes brief 'afterwords' by Butler about each piece.Everything in the book is superb, thought-provoking and fascinating.
I must now read everything she's ever written!'
Octavia E Butler is one of the greatest writers I have discovered in a long while.
Intelligent and thought provoking - I found myself in green-eyed envy of her skill at taking such a simple writing style and imbuing it with such depth and meaning.
Her contribution as a black American woman is invaluable to the usually Caucasian male dominated Science Fiction genre and this collection is an example of how very good Science Fiction writing can be.
Butler's two essays - one autobiographical and the other advice for those aspiring to become writers - are every bit as well written and compelling as her fictional work and an invaluable addition.
Octavia Butler writes with such clarity and inertia that I don't even mind that I didn't like this collection much.
Missed my subway stop as pages turned and turned.
She's got big ideas and I like big ideas.
Many of these stories felt like ideas, ideas that are tacked to the board, stark.
But I missed the complexity of Kindred, the time to really wonder about all the details.
Plus the title story gave me the creeps in the way that X-Files episodes sometimes freak me out.
Even when you're creeping me out, Octavia, I wanna be your friend so bad.
StoriesBloodchild: 5/5The Evening and the Morning and the Night: 3.5/5Near of Kin: 3.5/5Crossover: 2/5Speech Sounds: 3.5/5Amnesty: 3.5/5The Book of Martha: 4/5Essays:Positive Obsessions: Positive reactionFuror Scribendi: Positive reaction
Il clima non cambia, a prescindere dal genere di riferimento: si percepisce la presenza di un mistero da svelare, che si chiarirà con lo scorrere delle pagine; le società e gli spaccati di vita ritratti sono sempre carichi di elementi oppressivi e angoscianti; ad essi però si accompagna la fortissima volontà di resistere dei personaggi, che va al di là dell’ingenuità o della speranza, e si radica invece nella consapevolezza di poter contribuire a un bene più grande.Sono bei racconti, particolarmente interessanti per chi legge i romanzi di Butler perché evidenziano i temi che fanno da scheletro a tutte le sue storie.
Disturbing. Powerful. You can't look away.
One of the smartest, most thought-provoking books I've read in a while. I can't believe it took me so long to discover Octavia E. Butler.
I don't know if it was a refreshing read after a bout with Cormac McCarthy, but this small collection of short stories and two essays was amazing.
The stories themselves are strong narratives that employ slight variations on reality to move the plot while quickly developing readers' understanding of the characters.
This collection perked my interest in picking up a couple of her novels.
One item that some readers might not enjoy is that the collection includes an afterword for each story by the author.
Lastly, this is another book hip-hop made me read.
This was a rare gem among anthologies.
One of the few, in my experience, that was well deserving of a five star rating, and I compared it to the creme of the crop.
Anthologies by such august authors as Neil Gaiman, Connie Willis, Flannery O'Connor and Isaac Asimov didn't resonate as well.
What parted Bloodchild and Other Stories from many of its contemporaries, in my opinion, was its sense of purpose.
These stories weren't written simply to entertain.
They were aimed at specific issues that troubled its author, veiled in the allegorical cloak of science fiction, and delivered to poignant effect.
What a superb collection of short stories in the sci-fi genre by the wonderfully talented Octavia Butler. I loved all of them. Bloodchild was particularly creepy. I also loved all the medical/ethical questions raised in each story, which is really one of the core values of sci-fi and dystopian writing, but that sometimes gets lost in crazynew worlds and the like. Please excuse typos. Entered on screen reader.
Happy Birthday Octavia! Thank you for forever changing our imaginations and paving the way for women in speculative fiction! p.s. check out the google header for today. :)
My full reviews of the stories aren't on GR but at my blog.Octavia E.
This collection gives a good impression to her work.The stories seem to be hit or miss for me - when she uses phantasical elements or writes SF, I love the stories.
But her dramatic writing doesn't work for me at all, as good as they might be.
★★★★★ • “Bloodchild” • 1984 • novelette by Octavia E.
★★★★★ • “Speech Sounds” • 1983 • shortstory by Octavia E.
Butler • no phantastical elements, but dramatic writing; only "meh", very pessimistic story about a self destructive woman; didn't work for me.
Bloodchild is my introduction to grand dame of science fiction Octavia Butler, but like most short story collections, it's a mixed bag.
The former deals with a horrifying arrangement between aliens and humans, and the latter tells a story without dialogue, as humanity has lost the ability to communicate with words.
It was interesting to see familiar themes pop up; both "Bloodchild" and "Amnesty" examine how aliens and humans might coexist, giving the aliens priority in the arrangement.
Although a great deal of the stories was spent on a character explaining how the world worked, Butler constructs such fascinating worlds that the worldbuilding is the story.
Octavia Butler's Bloodchild collection serves as a clinic on worldbuilding, and how to deal with social issues in fiction without sacrificing story in the name of politics.
These stories, all but one science fiction, each feature a world unique in its depiction of future dystopias of disease, violence, alien occupation, or alien visions of pregnancy that mostly feature female protagonists grappling with moral issues.
The most obvious and effective lens through which to evaluate these stories is a feminist one, and this focus leads us toward Butler's male characters, who inevitably treat females with power with a disdain that strikes really close to home, in spite of the dystopian setting.
The story 'Blood Child" is fucking crazy.
It is a well thought out post-colonialist allegory to the experience of living as a fringe member of society.
I do not want to spoil it too much, but the story takes places in the future as humans are made the servant class of an extraterrestrial race.
We are used as house pets, "friends" and as a vessel for their reproduction.
Very well thought out and an example of science fiction doing what it does best- illuminating our behavior in the past by projecting into "the future" and stressing our cognitive limitations in the present.
