https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/122048.The_Ship_of_Ishtar
Of course the ship of Ishtar proves to be more than a toy: suddenly Kenton is transported onto its now full-sized deck, and so begins his adventure.Kenton soon learns—I'll leave the details for you to discover—that this ship, enchanted by Babylonian gods, is destined to travel throughout the world and through time to fulfill a particular purpose.
To sum up, if you can get past the sexism and the purple prose, you will find that The Ship of Ishtar is a vessel that will transport you to a world awash in thrilling sensations and exciting adventures.
Soon, Kenton finds himself transported to the ship the model represents, sailing the seas of an alien world and taking part in the agless battle between two Babylonian gods, Ishtar and Nergal.
John Kenton goes from being an academic to being a musclebound warrior after spending time in the slave pits aboard the Ship of Ishtar.
While Klaneth is a bit over the top in his villainy, Kenton's allies aboard the ship are well developed, from the Viking Sigurd, to Gigi and Zubran, the crew members who join forces with him to rid the ship of Klaneth.The story has a little bit of a John Carter of Mars feel but the writing is far superior to Burroughs'.
He also merits comparison with Burroughs in terms of the primitivism theme, for Kenton is a man drawn into a violent, low-tech world where his fight to survive will be the supreme test of his mettle.The world to which he is magically transported (he never understands the magic, and since he's the viewpoint character, it isn't explained to the readers either) is one on the seas of which sails a ship crewed by exiles from ancient Sumer, divided down the middle between those loyal to Ishtar and Nergal --the Sumerian deities, respectively, of love and death-- who are determined to wage an eternal strife aboard it.
John Kenton, a wealthy archaeologist and disillusioned World War 1 veteran,(the war to end all wars) receives a stone block, with a minute ship inside, from Babylon.(Iraq for the non history buffs) This being a fantasy, he soon lands on a galley, with slaves right out of an Arabian Nights fable!
On board he meets Sharane, the beautiful high priestess of Ishtar, goddess of love.Her eternal conflict against Klaneth, dark priest of Nergal, the god of the underworld and is the focus of our story.
Excellent finale, when Kenton's galley meets Klaneth 's warships, amist towering rocks arising from the bottom of the sea.
Written in 1924, Abraham Merritt’s The Ship of Ishtar is, on surface at least, an obvious early product of Pulp’s Golden Age. In many ways Ishtar is standard stuff, with young (and wealthy) American, John Kenton, who has an interest in things ancient.
Suddenly there’s a rush of wind, and in no time imagination and realty blend, with Kenton soon on the deck of a ship that is divided between two gods.
The characters themselves are fairly flat and predictable, but there are at least a half dozen times in Ishtar where Merritt’s lush prose and imagination push the novel into areas where poetry resides.
A modern-day (er, for Merritt) archaeologist, Kenton, examines a mysterious block that proves, when cracked, to contain a marvelously detailed toy ship of ancient Babylonian times.
Kenton is drawn into that world, and finds himself caught in a battle between the pearly pink worshippers of the goddess Ishtar and her arch-rival, the gloomy, sneering god of the underworld, Nergal.
These two are four-year-olds writ large.Merritt’s tale of spiteful gods hurling human play toys at each other is a great occult fantasy premise.
There was no need to present Kenton as modern-man-goes-ape in the first place in this book.
The man is ape from page one.Read The Ship of Ishtar for its over-the-top baroque occult fantasy.
Soon enough, Kenton is sucked through both time and space to enter the ship itself, a golden Babylonian vessel upon which clergy of the black god of death Nergal and beautiful goddess of love Ishtar war eternally.
Some of the other sensibilities are very 1920′s as well, namely the treatment of women: there are warrior maids, after all, but Sharane, priestess of Ishtar, is horribly objectified, just another thing for Kenton to acquire, with a definite “the woman’s place…” attitude.While the first third of the book crawls along, it’s really just building up steam; soon enough, the blood flows in buckets, and the book really leaps into a stunning crescendo of swashbuckling action adventure.
Julie and Scott realized Jeff didn't invite them for a normal afternoon boating trip when he showed up with a cloak, a sword, and a toy ship. Episode #174 of A Good Story is Hard to Find podcast, with special guest Jeff Miller!=======This is more sword-and-sorcery than I normally enjoy but it was good! Well written, with plenty to talk about (surprisingly) from a Catholic point of view. And my library copy had some of the original illustrations of the priestess of Ishtar with doves and diaphanous scarves strategically placed — ooh la la!
One of the books that turned me on to heroic fantasy fiction back in the early Seventies.
He's little known outside a narrow field these days, but he knew how to drive a plot.Our protagonist is "sucked" into a sculpure of a boat, finding himself part of the crew and forced to man the oars in a fantasy "Arabian Nights" setting.
There are sultry maidens, heroic rescues, and black magic, all you'd expect in a fantasy novel of the period.The writing style seems pulpy and dated these days, but it's a great fast read, and should be on every fantasy reader's bookshelf, just so they can understand the history of the genre.
"The Ship of Ishtar," one of Abraham Merritt's finest fantasies, first appeared in the pages of "Argosy" magazine in 1924.
It turns out that the ship is sailing the seas of an otherdimensional limboland, and manned by the evil followers of the Babylonian god of the dead, Nergal, and by the priestesses of the Babylonian fertility goddess, Ishtar.
It seems that, centuries ago, a priest of Nergal and a priestess of Ishtar had been guilty of the sin of falling in love; this eternal cruise is the punishment that has been meted out by the gods.
Not good, and not bad.
It's really just 100 % pulp fantasy including the traditional good and bad things that go with the genre.
Howard, Lovecraft and Smith have some trouble with this too but I've found it within myself to forgive them since their writings were superb but Merritt's is just good enough to not be considered a "waste-of-time-book".
It doesn't stand out by yesterday's or today's standards and I would only recommend it to someone interested in it for a more historical perspective of pulps.
When all is said and done, I'm still interested in reading Merritts' Moon Pool one day.
Despertar en una nave condenada a navegar por siempre y dominada por un hechicero oscuro da mucho miedo joder. Pero nuestro protagonista querrá hacerse con ella e ir a una isla dominada por hechiceros. Todo sea por amor.La Fantasía-Terror que ya no se hace aquí la encontraremos. Pura acción, pura aventura, un no parar de sucesos.
High fantasy, with a mediocre plot (modern man swept into a fantasy world, it has been done before), and a rather surprising ending (I must admit, I had suspected a totally different outcome).That being said, I rather enjoyed reading this tome, for the same reason I usually enjoy this type of books: the language.
Ever louder grew the clangor as he ascended; with it mingled now the diapason of mighty winds, staccato of cataracts of rain.)
Modern American (well, from the 20s, anyway) finds himself pulled into a mystical Ancient East that has itself been pulled out of time.
There he finds a ship torn between two warring deities, crewed by slaves and home to human pawns of the godly game.
Falling for a beautiful priestess, the American becomes warrior and embarks on a voyage of - adventure!Yeah, ok.
It is not a modern prose piece, this.
But overall this is an enjoyable read.Unfortunately, the novel's crew is one of stereotype and cliche.
One does wonder where the modern man disappeared here.
A piece of its time.
What started as an interesting historical fantasy, ended as a very long erotic story about the desire of Kenton for Sharane. The details of atmosphere were nice, pretty accurate as it resulted from the historical research, but very boring at some point. Probably I would have enjoyed it at an earlier age, even though I do not know what to say about the love part, which was pretty explicite at some point
Rape: what better way to show her how strong (yet full of love) you are?It's not that I'm easily offended, this book was just bullshit.
Non avevo mai letto Merritt, a causa anche della difficile reperibilità delle sue opere nel nostro paese, ed ero estremamente curioso.
Devo dire che ciò che piami ha colpito, al di la della bellezza dell'opera, è la scrittura: davvero di altissimo livello, grazie anche alla bellissima edizione di Palindromo.
L'ho trovato originale anche nel coinvolgere un pantheon decisamente dimenticato come quello mesopotamico.
E si, vi ho percepito quella punta di Cosmic Horror tanto cara al maestro HPL, grande estimatore di Merritt, ma che non rende troppo oscura la narrazione, che invece ci sorprende per la meraviglia di un viaggio che senza dubbio rimane
This is a story I’ve wanted to read for along time. It’s early speculative fiction, and often categorized as either sci-fi or fantasy, but after reading it I can say it’s definitely a fantasy story. The story is more of an adventure tale than anything, which makes sense given the state of publishing back then.Full review available here: https://frankormond.wordpress.com/201...
I've always enjoyed A. Merritt's stories, and this is probably his very best. A modern day adventurer is snatched out of time and finds himself a slave chained to the oars of a cursed ship, sailing an endless sea. But he is determined to become master of the ship and to win the love of the beautiful priestess of Ishtar. Fun, exciting and atmospheric, it's hard to find a better fantasy tale. Highly recommended.
It was really interesting to read a fantasy which was written before Tolkien. I also liked the unique influences it had. In my opinion the main character was not that likable, but all in all it was a good read with a really depressing ending.
I guess this was quite advanced for its time. I found some of it overwrought which Merritt fans will see as blasphemy. It proves writing and reading are subjective.
Epic fantasy!
4.5 stars. Reread after many years. I still like it a lot
Super fun adventure if you can look past the 1920s treatment of women. I'd love to see this story as a miniseries.
I can't recall ever reading an author more fond of them--several in each page.
More on one page than almost all contemporary authors would put into an entire novel.
Here's another quote--that makes contemporary romance aisle bodice rippers seem enlightened and restrained in comparison:"Yea--dear lord of me--even you do not know how greatly I love you,"whispered Sharane again, eyes worshipping, arms fettering his neck.
Sharane aka Miss Love Object I found pretty insipid, Kenton too stupid to live and a victim of testosterone poisoning.
It was a rip roaring yarn told in bright primary colors that I sped through happily turning the pages, even if the characters were paper thin.
I really enjoyed this book, and loved the myriad details that obviously spawned now classical elements of the fantasy genre.It took about a third of the book before I couldn't put it down, the shifting of the protagonist from the real world to that of the ship far too frequent for the adventure to grip me.
But when it did, I was hooked, and finished the book in a single sitting from that point on.My only real criticism of The Ship of Ishtar is that it is built around an antiquated misogyny that was unrelentingly distracting from what would otherwise be an exciting adventure.
Read this some years ago and wasn't very interested. It is a probably fairly typical example of a particular kind of pulp fiction: mightly hewed Vikings, beautiful compliant women, trusty sidekick of a non Caucasian extraction. People are on ships, they are different groups and the groups are backed by different gods, including Ishtar. There's fighting, and the hero is a slave part of the time. That's all I remember, but I do know I wasn't very keen and there are other books by Merritt that I far prefer to this one.
What a great story this was. You have all the elements of a good story here: love, hate, action, comradeship, tragedy. Even though this story deals with many absolutes there is much that seems to lie beneath, just tugging at you, seeping into your unconscious. This edition from Piazo Publishing is very nice. The artwork is incredible inside and truly adds to the story immensely. I will surely be coming back to this story again.
Characters are clichés (the scholar protagonist fails to ask pertinent questions, the heroine starts out as a strong woman, but submits herself to her "man" soon afterwards, the Viking is a concentrate of the "Norseman" stereotype, etc.), the narration is O.K., but the descriptions are glib, sometimes diffuse, and way too kitschy. I accept that this is Merritt's style of writing, but I don't like it. Oh, and have I mentioned the aimless misogyny? 1920s pulp fiction, through-and-through.
I've tried many times to read this book, but I just can't hack it. This time I bulled my way about halfway through, and I swear to God I'll never pick it up again. It's supposedly one of the great classics of fantasy, but the characters are cut out of tissue paper, the plot is trite and cobbled together, and the style is a phony fantasy-poetic that's just unreadable. Give it a miss.
