https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/145292.Introduction_to_Electrodynamics
Griffith discusses experiment, history, and theory alongside one another.
Every great equation is preceded by a discussion of the physics behind it and when you do reach that beautiful equation, you understand every piece.
Intuitive pictures and explanations accompany any abstract proof.
There are frequent attempts to unify concepts and keep the big picture in mind.
This is the kind of textbook that a self-motivated learner (read: student who doesn't go to lecture) dreams of.I'm just starting his Quantum Mechanics book and long for the day after when I can crack open that Elementary Particles book.Dr. David Griffiths, I salute you sir.
It is in fact almost unnecessary to take a class to learn the material if you have this book and enough motivation.Some people are somewhat put off by the informal, conversational writing style, the way it forces you to work through problems rather than handing everything to you, and it's somewhat non-standard notation.
Of course, having worked with the author, I have the added bonus of hearing his voice saying the words in this book when I read it, which certainly adds something.
When so much material is left to the reader to work out for him/herself, it would be more confidence inspiring to have an easy way to check answers.

The best introductory book about electromagnetism. For more advanced material you'll need Jackson, but Griffiths smooths the way tremendously.
It was so good, I read it twice! (I also walked out of the exam with an A, yay me!)
نسبت به کتاب های الکترومغناطیس دیگر ، زبان روان تری دارد و بهتر توضیح داده است ، گرچه اشتباه هم در کتاب پیدا میشود
If you want to a good mathematical approach to learning Electricity and Magnetism, Griffiths is your man. He treats the subject with just the right level of rigor, where you understand why the equations and principles are the way they are, but not at the point where you are swamped with burdensome grad school math. The order in which he presents the topics is perfect; each new topic builds on the previous topics. My undergraduate physics program had no better textbook than this one, and I recommend it fully to anyone who wishes an upper division undergrad understanding of E&M.
Best Book ever to start Electrodynamics!I wish I had read it when, I first heard about electromagnetic fields. It's awesome book, explains all stuff. The most interesting point was "why charges reside on surface at electrostatic equilibrium?" The answer wasn't like. If that's not the case then it won't be electrostatic but "this configuration has minimum energy which makes the system more stable and that's why charges tend to reside on surface if they can!"
a really great book. I don't think you could find any elementary electrostatic/dynamic book that makes you involve this much.the problems are fine and standard. and the explanations are magnificent.and I really enjoy the informal tone in the text.
The best book ever to learn electrodynamics!
Good for beginners
ok
If he could have just made the special relativity part higher level and added more exercises for Mikowski-Raum in order it to be -for anyone- easier with 4th-dimensional problems.
Introduction to Electrodynamics is probably the best book I have read on Electrodynamics at the Introductory level, though I have heard great reviews on the Classical Electrodynamics by Jackson which is what I am planning to read very soon.
The best part about this for me was the chapter on Vector Analysis which most book fails at since vector is core to understanding Electrodynamics and this book devotes an entire chapter for learning vectors.
If you are planning to study just the basic part of Electrodynamics, then you can study up to chapter 6-Magnetic Fields in Matter and skip the remaining Chapters, but I suggest you to study the remaining chapters as well.
"It can be covered comfortably in two semesters," but unfortunately I'm not taking a class on this and don't have two semesters to spend on it, so I had to skip or skim most of the math and read for definitions and basic ideas.
The first half teaches you to calculate electric fields created by unmoving charges and magnetic fields created by steady currents, both in empty space and in solid objects, by gradually introducing Maxwell's equations and related ideas.
The second half explores what happens when the charges move and accelerate.
It shows how the laws of electromagnetic waves and radiation are related to Maxwell's equations - I really wished I was following the math at that point!
I own both the 3rd and 4th editions of this book and pretty much the only difference is a few tweaks in the text explanations and some of the problems were changed, though most are exactly the same.
This is pretty much accepted as the best book out there for learning electrodynamics.
Very good explanations, probably the best example problems of any textbook I've had, and very thorough.
Be prepared to know Maxwell's equations inside and out and how they change based on whether an electric and/or magnetic field are/is present and whether they are static or not.
Seriously one of the best stories ever told.Griffiths connects almost everything you learn in Freshman physics.
The story starts with how have we learned simple electric and magnetic fields behave experimentally, and what are equations that model that?
Electric fields of stationary charges and magnetic fields of steady currents.
Then chapter 7 is the climax.
Maxwell's equations.
My favorite is chapter 9.
All the wave/optics equations that seem so arbitrary in Freshman physics?
You can derive them all from Maxwell's equations.
- Basically all of the derivations

This is a great introductory text to the study of electromagnetics. It gives students a good physical understanding of the subject and provides the tools a student needs to solve EM problems. It gives them a solid foundation for them to build upon for more advanced studies in Electromagnetics. Field and Wave Electromagnetics by David K. Cheng is the other introductory electromagnetics book I recommend. It gives a good physical understanding of the matter, but not to the same extent as Griffiths. However it does contain more practical problems from an Electrical Engineering perspective than does Griffiths.
Buku teks untuk mata kuliah yang berhubungan dengan Elektromagnetik Klasik. Contoh soalnya banyak dan ada kunci jawabannya, cukup runut dengan basis matematika yang diterangkan di awal-awal bab, khususnya kalkulus vektor, sehingga teori dan persamaan matematis bab berikutnya menjadi lebih mudah untuk dipahami. Bab yang diterangkan terdiri dari Elektrostatik sampai Gejala Gelombang Elektromagnetik, ditambah satu bab tentang pengenalan gejala elektromagnet relativistik.Sangat membantu untuk anda yang mau memahami gejala Elektromagnetik klasik secara mendasar dan teoritik.
Other than getting used to full vector notation in calculus, there is really no reason to teach from any other electrodynamics book at the undergraduate level. Freshman and sophomore level books are often so interested in problems due to the large lectures containing many engineers and med students that the explanations are poor at best. This book on the other hand is very clear. While students need to be quite comfortable with calculus to deal with the notation, the explanations are elementary and clear. I wish this had been my text book a class earlier.
I purchased this book for my Intro to E&M class as a physics major in college. The book is well-organized and written in semi-conversational language which greatly relieved the effort I spent on trying to comprehend the material. Equations and theorems are documented in such a way that they can be referenced effortlessly. Practice problems have several levels of difficulty and therefore satisfy the needs of a wide range of learners. Overall, I would recommend this book even if it's not chosen as the textbook for your class.
This book is the bible for an upper-level undergraduate physics course, or even for self-study of electricity and magnetism. Amazing clarity of explanations, thorough and genius treatment of somewhat abstract concepts, easy to parse appendices, and so much more make this the most outstanding, well-written textbook I have ever read not just in physics, but ever. I highly recommend this textbook to anyone who has ever even thought about learning about E&M, as it will be an enjoyable read and a crucially important reference for many, many years to come.
Best textbook I've ever had the pleasure (and it really was a pleasure) of reading. Very clear, concise, and, believe it or not, funny. Griffiths' writes in a down-to-earth, simple fashion, so you don't get caught up in jargon and verbosity. He writes to the student, saying how "you" need to do this, and sometimes how "I" prefer to do that. It really feels like he's sitting there teaching you E&M, and it's a great experience.
David J. Griffiths is a magician. The way he writes his books is wonderfully unique- as if he were delivering a public lecture, with all the tiny little jokes, while at the same time not missing out the (much required) mathematics. For an example, one of the later chapters in the book gives a brief introduction to the theory of special relativity. The chapter beautifully explains the concept in a way and that other books centered on STR cannot.
There is no doubt that Griffiths is the best book on electrodynamics for freshmen or sophomores. It can be more useful if used with "Classical Mechanics" by Taylor. Some people prefer the book of Jackson, but I should say that this is peerless for undergrads majoring physics. Jackson is a graduate text and may be a stress for undergrads.
Griffiths is a great textbook writer. Often, it seems as though he gives just enough examples for you to be able to do some of the problems without trying; others, with some difficulty; and some problems are quite difficult. In short, there's a good balance with the level of difficulty of the problem sets here - which to me is important for learning.
This is a staple of any serious Physics library. Griffiths strikes a really accessible balance between explaining concepts thoroughly and keeping the subject matter moving. Much of the math is overly-shortcutted for my tastes, but that is why the book is so thin. I just personally believe that review of fundamental principles can never hurt.
Not just one of the best textbooks on Electrodynamics, but it's one of the best textbooks I've ever read! His lucid language and clear explanation and sometimes quirky humor makes the subject a cakewalk. It happens very rarely that a textbook combines mathematical rigor and physical intuition so effortlessly the way this one does. A masterpiece indeed!
This is one of my all-time favorite reference books. It covers vector analysis and electrodynamics very comprehensively. Although I've never had a class that has required this textbook, I frequently found myself using it as a reference in courses I took in optics and fields and waves, and even for brushing up my vector math skills.
