https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/43798.The_Feast_of_All_Saints
This novel so often gets overlooked; Anne Rice's mystical writings about vampires, mummies and witches easily overshadow it.
While researching Interview with a Vampire, she gathered enough information, for this, her second novel (as Anne Rice).
The book blends a wonderful love of a beautiful city (New Orleans) with a genuine interest in African American culture.
The gens de couleur libre, a society of free middle-class mixed-raced people, had codified rules which were obeyed and respected, for the most part, by the wealthy slaveholders, and their interracial families.
I loved the book so much, I sought out a hardcover copy for my library...Top 25!
Completely different than most Anne Rice novels, this one forgoes the supernatural entirely. One of my favorite books, this novel is rich with history of pre-Civil War New Orleans and rural Louisiana. Characters are very compelling and Rice deftly explores the nearly mind boggling complexity of race and relationships in a city where degrees of black- or whiteness meant everything.NOTE: The movie was flat and much oversimplified by comparison, not even worth watching.
I'm giving this five stars (it was amazing) because that is how I felt about this book when I read it when I was fifteen.
My dad bought this book for me on one of our Sunday bookstore browsing days and I picked it up only because I liked the cover.
I had never heard of Anne Rice and didn't know anything about her Vampire Chronicles.
I've waited all these years for Anne to write a sequel and tell me what happened to Marcel.
I doubt she ever will.I'm curious if the five stars would hold up if I were to re-read this today.
I love books that highlight African American history, and I was beside myself when i found this book one day in a bin at Goodwill. For .25 I got one of the best books I've ever read. Mrs. Rice weaves an excellent tale about the gen de libre coloure, a little known community of mixed races free people of color that populated Louisiana. I was completely draw into the world of Marcel St. Marie as he struggled with his identity on his road to becoming a man.This was a great book.
This is the third time I've read this novel.
Despite many (many!) other "preternatural" novels by Rice that I have loved or have at least enjoyed, this historical novel about a boy coming of age in a cruel, difficult way is by far my favorite.
This novel made me realize at a young age that your dreams are not awarded to you, but that you must work to make them come true.
It taught me that love is illusory and must be experienced, cherished in every form that it appears.
This is a big, contradictory, romantic, preposterous and wonderful novel that I still love.
Not because it was hard to read but because I was worried I wouldn’t like it and I simply didn’t want to have to change my perception of the awe-inspiring Ms. Rice.
When I first read this passage, I nearly shouted out loud: someone else was able to articulate just how I felt about the written word – the idea that it keeps the thoughts and ideas they embody alive forever, that books should be treated almost like living things.
This book made me understand colourism in Black society a bit more. Very interesting book, though it took me about 200 pages to really get into it
A beautiful and lush novel set in a very unique community in America in antebellum New Orleans - the gens de couleur libre, the mixed race Creoles of color.
The novel, though with many characters who play very important roles in the story, concentrates on the St. Marie family: Cecile St. Marie, the haughty matriarch of dark skin and fine european features who was rescued as a little girl from St. Domingue during the revolt; her daughter, Marie, blessed/cursed with the ability to pass for white, hated and envied by her mother for that ability, and aiming to set her on the path to debut at the city's infamous "quadroon ball"; and Marcel, the honey color complexioned, blue-eyed precocious protagonist who learns very difficult lessons about life while growing into adulthood.
Mesmerizing, enchanting, melancholic, overall, a beautiful novel!
This is so much better than the vampire books, a complex and fully imagined life of a young free man of color in pre-Civil War New Orleans.
The story focuses on the lives of the gens de colour, free people of color in antebellum New Orleans, who created a rich and highly cultured society in the midst of prejudice and the world of slavery.
(This did occur, but from what I read about the subject many of these girls actually settled down as married women within the gens de colour society.) The novel is a slow read, but the details which Anne Rice weaves into the setting creates a world where I felt I had time travelled each evening as I read the book.
It's Anne Rice so very yummy details.
Anne seems to have done a fair amount of research on this book (plus she's lived in New Orleans for quite a while) - according to the brief tours I engaged in while in NOLA, many details match up.
I'm not Anne Rice so I can't put my feelings about this book into words - just read it and fall in love like I have.
Also, there is a relationship of varied age-differences that develops which the reader must be forewarned (but this IS Anne Rice).
A remarkable well-researched and from-the-heart work of historical fiction which follows the everyday lives of antebellum gens de couleur, also commonly called "Creole" society in Southern Louisiana.
A motley assortment of characters and a well-crafted and cleverly paced storyline is accented by unexpectedly complex explorations of racial dynamics from a variety of perspectives along the color line, and mostly within it's lesser explored grayspaces.
Most interesting to me were the variety of responses, personalities, and in some cases, liberation strategies developed within the precarious and undefined/self-defining racial netherworld insisted upon by the gens de couleur, a direct opposition to the black-white system typical of British colonial tradition.
This is probably one of my three favorite books by Anne Rice.
It is set in New Orleans and is about the life of one man and his three families.
It is not a ghoulish tale, like Rice is known for writing either.
It is a period story about the children of this man and how each position in society played out more in their lives than who their father was in New Orleans.
And in case you are interested my two other favorite books by Anne Rice are The Vampire Lestat and Memnoch the Devil.
I have never been so involved in character in a book in my life. It made laugh, cry and scream it was so damn good! The history was accurate, the imagery breath taking. I cannot recommend this book enough!
I never finished this one. It never really went anywhere. I probably read half of it and decided to stop.
Long and rambling. Not really my taste in books. The writing was amazing and so were the characters. I'm just not much for conversation based plots.
Apparently Rice's second book, after "Interview with the Vampire," this is a fascinating and lushly written historical novel about the free people of color who lived in New Orleans (and elsewhere) before the Civil War.
the atmosphere was so heavy i could choke on it. it would be a good way to die too.
The main characters are the gens de couleur, or free people of color, in and around New Orleans.
I am a white American, born long after slavery and yet I was able to identify so deeply with the characters in this story that at times I wept.
And as I look back I understand now that Anne was never really writing about vampires or witches, she was writing about us, about human beings.Unfortunately, this may be the last novel of hers I ever read.
After Hurricane Katrina destroyed Anne's beloved New Orleans and much of Louisiana, she turned to Christianity in her grief.
Yes) and had yet to pick up and read anything by Anne Rice.
It was an entire series about people of color who were not enslaved during a time in American history were the majority of anyone who was not white, were bound by someone who was.
After watching the series, which played out like a dramatic soap opera, I had to find and read the book.
Of course this title doesn't read like an actual historical account on any particular person or family during the time of the gens de couleur, but as a fictional tale about the general plight of these people during pre-Civil War America.
Marcel, the novel's main protagonist, has to learn this.
From the abhorrent Cecile to the dreamy Marcel, and from the lovely and decent Richard to the scandalous Dolly Rose, there wasn't a single character who I didn't feel intimately acquainted with and invested in their fates (particularly those of Richard and Marie...eep!) Once again New Orleans is easily just as big a character as any of the people within, and Rice writes about it so powerfully you can feel the love for her city flowing from the pages.Gorgeously written, intricately plotted, educational and emotionally powerful, I'd highly recommend this book.
Te transporta, los conoces.A lo largo de esta larga historia te involucras y no es tediosa en ningún momento.Lo único que me ha molestado es, una vez más, es un descuido en la revisión de la traducción.
Erratas, en semejante "tocho", bueno, lo paso, pero un personaje llamado Dolly Rose, que en un momento se llame "Dolly Parton", como la cantante de country y actriz, me chirría.
Menos mal que es solo una vez.Por lo demás, altamente recomendable.
This was my first reading of Anne Rice's second novel.
In it, you can clearly see the beginnings of the writer she would become.
Here we see the roots of her explorations of historical New Orleans and the multigenerational family storytelling that her Mayfair Witches series would make her famous for.I love that in 1979, Rice included a gay character in a work of popular fiction without comment.
This person is simply present and his romantic entanglements are described as benignly as any others.
I feel like the ingredients are all present but they haven't been mixed as successfully as she would manage with subsequent works.

As I said about "Cry To Heaven" don't dismiss this as just another Anne Rice book. It's an historical novel about being a mixed race or mulatto young man in 19th century New Orleans. There was a whole class of colored, well-off, well-educated and cultured people in New Orleans at this time. They ranked far above the blue-collar Irish immigrants in the complex social strata of the Crescent City. While Anne Rice's writing tends towards the overlush, this is a captivating, interesting story of a time in history that many people outside of New Orleans don't know about.
The book was well written but I still found my self bored with it. I guess I should stick to my thrillers. There were moments when I wanted to throw it down and give up but then there were aspects of this book that had me intrigued. Because of this book I will postpone reading anymore anne rice books. I don't want to be bored out of my mind anymore. But still... She's a great writer.
Horribly believable historical novel about race, and about having very limited ways of performing masculinity and femininity and even family relationships. Noone in the book is completely innocent, but noone in it is free to be the idealist you would wish either.The book was hauntingly sad, had a sort of despairing flavour and a scent of a marshy hot place to it.Very worth a read.
First Anne Rice book I ever read. I've been smitten since by her writting and New Orleans as well. My soul now resides there with her help. Book gives a great insight to N.O. caste system in the early days...Enjoy
Rice is truly gifted. There is so much detail and lush writing in this book about a time and place she seems to know so well - as if she lived there in a former life. She makes the reader smell it, taste it, touch it. Wonderful!
If you follow my reviews, you'll see I rarely give 5 stars. I save that fifth star for books that stay with me, in me. This book gets my fifth star.
