https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/78508.The_River_of_Doubt
”In Xanadu did Kubla KhanA stately pleasure-dome decree:Where Alph, the sacred river, ranThrough caverns measureless to manDown to a sunless sea."Samuel Taylor Coleridge  Roosevelt wrote articles for Scribners while he was on this trip. Notice that he had to cover up his hands and face to keep the constant barrage of biting insects at bay.As Theodore Roosevelt lay on his cot in the Amazonian jungle burning up with fever, yellow pus leaking from his leg, and his mind wandering aimlessly through
Initially they were supposed to take a relatively easy trip down a known byway, but when Colonel Rondon came to Roosevelt and presented an alternative idea, surveying an unknown river, can’t you see the brimming excitement in those myopic eyes and the big smile with all those tombstone teeth?CLANK!
What I’m struck by in this picture is how thin Roosevelt looks.The River of Doubt turns out to be a nemesis capable of swallowing them all without leaving a single trace.
The Amazon never did let go of him; in fact, when he died in 1919 it was from complications associated with his trip down The River of Doubt.
Instead of poking around the Amazon, Roosevelt and his expedition would attempt to be the first white people to descend the unmapped River of Doubt.Traveling with Roosevelt was his son, Kermit, a lovesick young man of exceptional energy and endurance; Father Zahm, a racist old priest who wanted the porters to carry him along the trail; George Cherrie, an explorer and naturalist; and Colonel Cândido Mariano da Silva Rondon, Brazil’s most famous explorer, a man so devoted to peace between Brazilians and Indians that he refused to let his men defend themselves if attacked.
What a wonderful, adventurous journey Candice Millard takes us on with Teddy Roosevelt's amazing and disastrous expedition down an uncharted Amazonian river called the River of Doubt.
Troubled by his defeat in 1912's election, the 55 year-old Teddy needed a victory, and what better way but a new expedition this time taking him through the rain forest.
Joined by his son, Kermit, Teddy sets out to explore a charted Brazilian river, but gets talked into trying the River of Doubt by his co-lead in the expedition.
He was an adventurer who took his outdoor skills seriously, set standards very difficult to live up to, and held himself to a standard above anything he would have expected of anyone else.The trip down the Amazon is described in enough detail to make you squirm in your seat and wonder how anyone came out the other side, let alone a man of Roosevelt's age and physical condition.
What a statement that makes about the character of Roosevelt, that he could win the heart of such a man when the both of them must have been at their worst humor and suffering from hunger, illness and unimaginable discomforts.I couldn't help thinking how much we need a man of his conviction and confidence today.
And then, Teddy Roosevelt got the terrible idea that instead of taking a pleasant boat trip down the Amazon River, which was a known route, it would be much more exciting to explore an unknown area, such as the River of Doubt.The arrogance.
The entire expedition was doomed to be a failure the moment Roosevelt changed his mind.The book follows the group's overland march through the jungle to the River of Doubt, and then their slow and dangerous river descent.
The book has a good epilogue, explaining that after everything Roosevelt had been through in the jungle, few believed his story when he got home.

I had read "Roosevelt's Beast" by Louis Bayard, which is a fictionalization of Theodore Roosevelt's expedition to the River of Doubt in the Amazon.
As originally planned, his trip to South America was going to be pretty tame and was sponsored by the Museum of Natural History.
However, the trip morphed into a dangerous expedition to map the River of Doubt and explore the surrounding territory.
An elderly priest (who had planned the original trip) was shunted off when he decided that he would explore from the comfort of a sedan chair.
This book tells of a chapter of Theodore Roosevelt's life that was not widely known these days, at least before this book was published.
One thing led to another until he very nearly got himself, his son and others killed in the heart of the Amazon River basin.
The dangers of the Amazon rain forest are so thoroughly described in this book that I'm convinced that the reader is more aware of the danger and trouble TR's party was in than the actual participants.
The on-line text is from the book Through the Brazilian Wilderness by Roosevelt published in 1914.http://www.bartleby.com/174/Here's a link to an excerpt from the The River of Doubt:http://www.delanceyplace.com/view-arc...
Initially the planned trip was for relatively safe and known rivers when when Brazil's minister of foreign affairs told Roosevelt about an unknown river worth exploring: Rio da Duvida, the River of Doubt.
The trip quickly went from tour to survival contest.Roosevelt was in this 50's at the time.
Reading what the members of the expedition endured I was left amazed that Roosevelt made it home.This was a fascinating story about a chapter in history that is little known.
The original plan had been for a trip over known rivers.
The expedition was unprepared for such a trip and it is a miracle that any of them survived.
Teddy Rosevelt's exepedition in the heart of the Amazon jungle may be a footnote in history, but Millard brings it to life as one of the most compelling adventure tales I've ever read.
Millard does take her time building up the background here, as most good historians would, but when the journey gets under way, the book becomes difficult to put down.
Not only do we learn about Rossevelt's personality and character we also learn much about the Amazon's ecosystem, infectious diseases, and the myriad of dangerous creatures that inhabit the jungle.
This book is both highly informative and hugely entertaining.
I'm either maturing as a reader or authors are getting better at making non-fiction more appealing to fiction junkies, like me. I think it's the latter. So very interesting.
The river they were to explore may or may not have been a tributary of the Amazon - nobody knew - and it was literally named the River of Doubt - "Rio da Dúvida."Unfortunately for Roosevelt, what started out as a trip to South America to make a few speeches and tour around the Amazon a bit turned into a horribly ill-prepared expedition organized by guys who either had only visited South America as a tourist or had never been south of the border (but had led a group to nearly starve to death on an expedition to the Arctic).
A notorious loather of non-fiction, I might just have found the one to break the cycle.
River of Doubt was a brilliant, well-crafted narrative of Theodore Roosevelt's arduous journey down a previously unmapped tributary of the Amazon River.
You know how it's going to end since it's happened in real life and is on record somewhere.
With River of Doubt I was staying up way past 1am during the week to read it, to see what was around the next bend in the river, to see what dangers the intrepid band of explorers were going to face.
"Far from its outward appearance, the rain forest was not a garden of easy abundance, but precisely the opposite.
Its quiet, shaded halls of leafy opulence were not a sanctuary, but, rather, the greatest natural battlefield anywhere on the planet, hosting an unremitting and remorseless fight for survival that occupied every single one of its inhabitants, every minute of every day.
Though frequently impossible for a casual observer to discern, every inch of space was alive -- from the black, teeming soil under Roosevelt's boots to the top of the canopy far above his head -- and everything was connected.
This book isn't a biography of Teddy Roosevelt.Instead, Candice Miller, a National Geographic contributor, details one incredible year of his life - the year he decided to travel to the Amazon and risk all to charter a 600 mile previously unknown river: the Rio Duvida or River of Doubt.Miller doesn't limit her writing to being a travelogue.
When he reached Brazil, he changed his plans from exploring a known river to embarking on a journey along the uncharted River of Doubt.
Theodore Roosevelt was accompanied by his son Kermit Roosevelt, the Brazilian explorer Colonel Candido Rondon, a naturalist, a doctor, and the camaradas who toiled as paddlers and porters.
Although there were many people on this journey to admire, it is questionable if they would have survived without the leadership of Colonel Rondon.The book is an adventure story as well as a historical account of part of Roosevelt's life.
I enjoyed this Brazilian adventure through the uncharted territory on the River of Doubt.
History brought alive through captivating subject matter, exemplary writing, and exceptional research.
Only a couple times did I find myself skimming; mostly in the more political or biographical feeder trails.
Otherwise, I found myself hanging on to every word - and turn of the current or thrash through the jungle portage.
My, how times and ideologies and technologies have changed.
Some for the better, some for the worse.
Then again, where is there to explore that hasn't already been explored, exploited, and/or spoiled?FOUR **** History and Exploration Brought Excitingly Alive **** STARS
I don't usually choose to read history, but this reads like an adventure story with interesting historical asides to put it into context. Excellently researched and brought to life. Worst trip ever.
I understand that he didn't know that this was going to happen when he put forth such effort to accomplish it, but it all just seems like a waste in hindsight.I don't know what makes men and women determine how to live their lives and decide what sorts of losses are acceptable during their completion, but I don't think that I could have lived with myself if I had been in charge of that expedition.
at least for a time.To my mind, the main tragedy of this story, beyond the obvious losses, is what eventually happens to Kermit, Roosevelt's son.
On the morning of March 4, Cherrie woke up to find that the poncho that he had spread underneath his hammock the night before was "literally alive with termites." Unfortunately for the expedition, termites swarm during the rainy season.
The termites ate Cherrie's duffle bag, the red lining of Roosevelt's helmet, and even one leg of the former president' underwear.
The obstacles to exploring this barely known river, and the methods the men found to overcome those obstacles were also fascinating.
Theodore Roosevelt, adrenaline/adventure junkie extraordinary, upon losing the 1912 presidential election, "resorted to the only therapy he knew: physical hardship and danger." Enter the Amazon and the heretofore uncharted "River of Doubt." As someone who has spent a good chunk of time journeying outside of civilization (e.g. backpacking along the Appalachian Trail, sailing from Mexico to Tahiti, out of site of land for a solid month), this story had me cringing from start to finish.
What is amazing is that anyone, much less a former president, would make such a journey as poorly prepared as Roosevelt's expedition.
Indeed, Roosevelt's death years later was attributed in part to the travails of this journeyI read one review of this book complaining that the author kept digressing from the story to write about the natural or social history of the Amazon.
However, by the end of the book, I'd come to appreciate their necessity in comprehending not only the difficulties of the expedition but also all the reasons why they never should have made it out alive.
Remarkable story of the exploration journey by then-former President Teddy Roosevelt down a previously uncharted River in South America in 1914.
The saving grace was TR's son Kermit and the Colonel Rondon of South America, who each had a unique role in propelling the expedition despite incredibly trying circumstances.
The author did a remarkable job of weaving in the essence of Roosevelt's deeply ingrained personal traits, the dynamic of the expedition team, the environment, ecosystem, and wildlife encounters in the Amazon jungle (snakes - I *hate* snakes), and the treacherous nature of the undertaking.
An entirely unexpected story and a great book.
Not my cup of tea. DNF. Too many boring tangential details interrupting the narrative. For a book about Teddy, I preferred:
“The River of Doubt” really only focuses on one major event in Roosevelt’s life, an Amazon adventure that occurred when he was fifty-five years old and had recently been defeated when his Progressive Party took on Woodrow Wilson and William Howard Taft in the presidential election.
(Teddy actually beat Taft and is still the only third party candidate to come in second in an election.) Nonetheless, Roosevelt did not have a disposition suited to a leisurely retirement, and he was lured by an invitation to travel to South America to collect Amazonian species with naturalists hand-picked by the American Natural History Museum.
I can learn from nonfiction, but more to the point I can enjoy it.The River of Doubt did not change my opinion of Teddy Roosevelt, who has always seemed to me to have lived by an annoying ubermacho, war mongering creed.
However, I also realized that I have a heretofore unadmitted weakness for extreme adventure tales, of which this book is a good example.In 1912, Theodore Roosevelt lost a presidential election and got depressed.
Roosevelt met his match in Brazilian explorer Candido Mariano da Silva Rondon, one of the toughest, most principled dudes I have ever met in any book.
I read the whole book in two days.
In 1914, when most young British men were headed to trench-digging in Europe, former President Teddy Roosevelt, reeling from a loss as a third-party candidate for President, initiated an expedition down an uncharted river in the Amazon rainforest, attempting to leave himself a little geographical legacy.
And that legacy of mapping the River of Doubt would today be little more than an unknown blip if not for this book.
I admit that it was a bit tedious to read over and over about encounters with rapids, but imagine actually having to traverse them!
Part political thriller, part Biography, part Saturday-afternoon adventure serial, part ecology lesson, Candice Millard's "The River of Doubt" has a little something for everyone.
The author weaves these seemingly incongruous threads together into a seamless narrative that will keep you on the edge of your seat as you ride down the river with the former President and the rest of his party.This is a book that must be experienced as well as read, easily one of the top 5 books of the decade.
My only negative comment on the book was that it was too short, and the author seemed in a hurry to fit everything in.
I didn’t love this book. It was good. It was a good story with many interesting facts but I kept wishing the river trip and the book would end. The writing style was almost too descriptive which made me feel hungry, itchy, achy, hot and exhausted as I listened to the audiobook. I would recommend the book but only to history buffs as the best parts of the book were the background and side stories.
Candice Millard's retelling of Theodore Roosevelt's journey down "The River of Doubt" is skillfully composed and a pleasure to read.
While the story needs no embellishment, she manages to highlight key events while providing enough collateral/historical information to not only educate but entertain without overwhelming or losing forward momentum.
She brings the characters to life (or rather back to life) in a way that invests the reader.Part Roosevelt biography, part Amazon history/science lesson, and part jungle adventure--man vs.
nature (where nature generally wins), "The River of Doubt" has so much to love.
Would recommend to those who enjoy historical fiction and tales of adventure.
