https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/143717.Pirates_Past_Noon
This is a book about a pirate who want’s treasure.
So the pirate took Jack and Annie because he thought they were hiding gold from him.
What I liked about this book is when the two kids, Annie and Jack, try to escape from the bad guy’s ship.
I thought the librarian at the end of the book was cool and looked very pretty, like princess.
In the end the pirate opened the treasure box right away and he was surprised and got mad.
Then Annie and Jack took him to the wrong treasure chest, by accident.
It starts off like all of the other books when Jack and Annie went out to the Frog Creek woods and got into the treehouse.
Since it was raining out, Annie grabbed the book with the beach and wished they could go there.
On the way to find the treasure, Jack and Annie escaped back to the treehouse to go home.
As they got to the treehouse Jack realized that he forgot the book onshore and the pirates were catching up to them.
I would recommend this book to anyone who enjoys a book about the history of pirates and treasure.
During the ROOB competition I read through a bunch of the earliest Magic Tree House books.
In Pirates Past Noon Jack and Annie go back in time to learn how to be pirates and to discover the identity of the mysterious M.The earliest books are very short compared the newest ones.
They are also short on plot.
The gist here is that the siblings are still trying to learn who owns the tree house and how it works the way it does.
As it stands, the pirates are merely caricatures and a means of putting the children in danger to move the plot.
Cartea aceasta este despre doi fraţi pe nume Jack şi Annie, care descoperă lumea piraţilor datorită unei cărţi şi a unei căsuţe în copac. Copiii ajunşi în lumea piraţilor descoperă multe primejdii şi bine înţeles piraţi şi un papagal vorbăreţ.
When attempting to try to stop reading for the night Jack said, "If you stop here, I'm going to have a problem!" So, I guess this deserves four stars:)
The Kiddo came home with two more Magic Treehouse books from his school library.
This book features Cap'n Bones, a pirate eager for gold, and in need of the kids' help because he can't read the treasure map he acquired.This book features a lot of action, and some very real peril for the kids.
It's exciting and fast-paced, but I felt like Cap'n Bones could have been fleshed out a bit more as a character.
I'll stop now.)The pirate adventure also gets cut short a bit due to the need to develop the ongoing meta-plot in the final chapters.
☆4.75/5☆this might be my favorite one!
okay this feels a little like cheating to add it to my yearly reading count but i did read it all (aloud!) to a student and it's 80+ pages so it might as well count. it had a good overall arc (who is this mysterious m person who keeps leaving books in the magic tree house?) and a fun pirate adventure with some genuinely funny lines.
The mates go to the tree house to investigate and only see a medallion.
The captain sees it and accuses Jack and Annie of stealing their treasure.He has a map that none of them can read.
The parrot transforms into a person, Morgan LaFay. She tells them that because Annie believes in magic and Jack likes reading they were able to discover the tree house, because no one else could see it.
Jack and Annie care about other people, because they remind the captain to be nicer to his mates.The story takes place when pirates were popular.
The summery of past books within the new story would be really helpful for a person who hasn't read the series in a long time.
So I understand why it happens, but it takes something from me as an adult reader.However the books are cute and fun.
I can relate to them, even as an adult, because I love books and would love to be in their shoes, to see all the worlds in the books, and who wouldn't want a magic tree house?So now we know who "M" is.
Also, I feel like these "children" books and other nostalgia type books are really good when you are in a reading slump.
It is basically travelling into the book itself.The book that was used to travel on this magical adventure was called "Pirates of the Caribbean", I guess that is where Disney got their idea from, The Magic Tree House.This was the last book that was read to my class over the course of four weeks, after that we were told we could buy a book from the class book rack.
I was upset about it, but I still got a magic tree house book, #15 "Viking Ships at Sunrise", it was the first magic tree house book I owned for my very self.
"Pirates Past Noon" starts off like all of the other books do.
The only way for the pirates to let Jack and Annie go is if they help them find Captain Kidd's buried treasure.
He is the one looking for Captain Kidd's buried treasure.
Jack loves to read books and Annie is very outgoing.The setting of this story starts off in the treehouse and then moves to a beach along the sea.
Even though Captain Bones is mean to Jack and Annie they still decide to help him find the treasure.I would recommend this book to children who read chapter books.
Jack and Annie are on another magical adventure.
They venture into the past and become pirates, only the crew isn’t too fond of them.
Will they find the mysterious M?Jack and Annie are the main characters on the journey.
Annie has a keen eye in seeing clues.The story takes place back in time on a pirate ship.
Jack and Annie take their Magical Treehouse for a spin and go back in time.The thematic connection in this book is to not worry when you are pressured.
The pirates make it fun and the book forces your imagination to go to work.
10/14/09 Read today with Annabelle.
At one point I asked her what she thought would happen next and she said, "Mom, I already know!
JUST KEEP READING!" Maybe she knew because she'd seen the pictures.
Maybe she didn't know!
But she enjoyed this book as well.
When I explained to her that the black flag with skull and cross bones represented a pirate ship, she already knew that!
She said.
:) Smarty Pants!We also had a "is it real" discussion today.
Annabelle thinks pirates are NOT real.
(She also originally thought Mummies were not real.
See book #3).
The first part was fun, as always.
The pirates had a fun twist with the strange friend/animal helping them out.
Interesting story line.NOW HERE'S THE HUGE SPOILER, SO DON'T READ ON IF YOU WANT TO BE...SURPRISEDSo the kids return as they always do, but the parrot returns with them.
Who says her name is Morgan.
Now the books says she is the sister of Kinger Arthur.
So now I'm reading a kid book, with an innocent Morgan floating around, and my mind is totally SCREWED UP!!
This book was a very quick read.
This was not my favourite book from the series so far, but it was very interesting.
I had no interest about the pirates at all.
Capn' Bones was a very arrogant character towards Jack, Annie and his other pirate mates.The part where Jack and Annie were trying to escaped the bady guys ship made me so intrigued with the story.
They showed how courageous and sneaky they can be in escaping a situation that can potentially prolong for a long time.
Overall, it was an okay read, not the best book in the series.
★★★★★Pirates Past Noon by Mary Pope OsborneWe love the Magic Tree House Series.
They are easy, read chapter books.
My daughter really likes when I read these to her, because I put so much enthusiasm in them.(view spoiler)[This is book 4 in the series.
It starts on as any rainy day, until Jack and Annie, get to the tree house.
They look through the books and see one with a beautiful ocean, and are magically transported there.
As the go down to the beach, they see a ship with a pirate flag, and realize they are in trouble.
(hide spoiler)]
Ok. So I totally have this thing for pirates, where I just will read pretty much anything pirate related.
Pirates are cool and when you toss Magic Tree House into the mix, you just get lots and lots of fun and adventure.
Not to mention new friends and experiences!
The Magic Tree House Series is so wonderful that I'm slightly upset I started it so late.
I'm only on book 4, but I'm super excited to read book 5 and I already love the series.
Another Magic Tree house series book.
Jack and Annie find an open book in the treehouse and Annie wishes to go there without looking at the cover to find out what the book is about.
They don't find out the book is about pirates until it is too late.
I learned about how pirates act, where pirates are, and how much prates want gold.
I like how Jack and Annie eventually escape from the pirates, by outsmarting them.
I also liked how they stumbled across a pirates treasure.
Jack and Annie also meet the owner of the tree house, a woman named Morgan le Fay.
For the first time ever Alex made a request for a specific kind of book when we went to the library. His kindergarten teacher read them a Magic Treehouse book, and he wanted to get one for us to read at home. Couldn't exactly deny a request like that! This was a cute story... I loved the relationship between Annie and Jack as brother and sister. It's easy enough that before long my 5 year old will be able to read this on his own without much help. We look forward to reading others in this series.
Re-read as German audio play. We are still enjoying these stories. There is just enough intrigue to keep things interesting, but it's not too complicated, so it's perfect for my 5 year old. You also find out who the "mysterious M person" is in this book! I like that the author doesn't shy away from using more complicated/advanced vocabulary. Occasionally, I'll ask my son if he knows what such-and-such means. If he says no, I'll tell him. Most of the vocabulary you can figure out through the context, though.First read April 2015
This is another book that I read to learn Spanish as an adult.This book is at my comprehensible reading level which made it an absolute delight. I was able to learn several new words through context as there is ample repetition.The plot was simple with a couple of twist and turns which kept it from being boring, but I doubt that I would enjoy this book much if it was much below my comprehensible reading level.I may read a few more of this series, but the plot simplicity makes me hesitant.
I'm not a huge fan of pirates, so I didn't really care for this one, but my nephew giggled his way through it.
In fact, we usually just read a few chapters a night, but he demanded that I read this one all the way through in one sitting!
The pirate captain was a mean, gross, and just someone that you wanted to dump in the ocean.
The two crewmen mentioned were named Stinky and Pinky and were dumb as rocks.
I really wish that Jack had been able to find out what was actually in Kidd's treasure chest, but I was so excited when they finally revealed who the mysterious "M" was!
I think that it was a good book because it talked about how these kids are in the tree house on a rainy day and find a book of a picture of a beach and they go there. They see a large pirate ship and the pirates chase them and want to know where the treasure is. This is an adventure book.
This book is good. The part where the pirate was not nice was not good. Pirates are not nice, but I can fight him & get his sword away from himIf I fought a pirate, I would pretend I was dead and they would go away & I would sneak up on him and steal his hook. I would.
I read this to my Brooks Elementary kindergarten class today. Oh the joy in their faces as we were reading. :)
Seth and I have been enjoying reading the Magic Tree House books together. They are great! I'd highly recommend them for young readers. They're like a Dr. Who series for kids :)
great children's chapter book!
Good book. I thought the coolest part was when Jack and Annie realized that the island had the shape of the whale.
This one has implications connecting to The Librarians TV show!!! These are really fun.
