https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/17986416-the-lasko-tangent
I read this book many years ago, when it was first published.
I decided to re-read it and see if I still liked this author.
I started with The Lasko Tangent because it's the first, chronologically, in the Christopher Paget series.I found it as interesting, absorbing and well-written as I remember finding Richard North Patterson's novels in the past.
THIS Patterson is a lucid, well-spoken writer who presents his characters in such a way that they are memorable.
It isn't necessary to keep referring back to previous chapters to remember who is who.
Now I look forward to Degree of Guilt, next in the Christopher Paget saga.
Ths is a fast read. Lots of twists and turns. A real mystery until the last couple of pages.
I'd call the first half OK. The latter part of the second half really gets interesting -- the kind of "I don't want to put it down" interesting -- but then abruptly, the story is done. It's not the way I expected it to end, so that was a bit disappointing. I do realize that Patterson's later books will fill in the gaps with flashbacks back to this book, but it would be nice to have kept the story going and see the story play out here.
I really enjoyed reading Richard North Patterson's first novel. As I am a big fan of his, I felt it only right to go back and read the book that started his incredible career! If you are a fan as well, it is definitely a worthy read and doesn't disappoint. I gave it 4 stars only because it took me a little while to get into it, but once I did, I was hooked!
Loved it! A gripping political thriller with a main protagonist you can admire for his daring and drive to uncover the TRUTH goddammit. ... if not for his shamelessly chauvinist attitude, which is almost forgivable considering this was written in the barely enlightened final year of the 70s. Hungry for more from Richard North Patterson!
Thoroughly enjoyed the book. Have read almost all of Richard North Patterson's books and have enjoyed them all. I think this was his 1st book or at least one of his early books.....1979. I recognized the main character from several other books. Quick...easy....enjoyable read.
Incredible debut novel that had me turning pages all the way through. Patterson created a detective that was my kind of cynical as well as being very intelligent. I really enjoyed following him through the novel.
As a lead lawyer at the Economics Crime Commission, Christopher Paget is handed a challenging case to investigate: one of stock price manipulation by a powerful industrialist with political connections to the White House.
Also, the love connection happens quite quickly and not in the most believable manner.Still, the book is a decent read in that the two essential questions – what is the bigger mystery behind the financial manipulations of the industrialist, Mr Lasko?
and how does Lasko always seem to know what Chris Paget is up to and have his hit men ready to assail him?
I tried to like The Lasko Tangent.
I wanted to like it.
Mr Patterson is a giant in the genre.In the end, however, I couldn't get there.
The characters were flat and uninteresting.
I felt very little empathy for the protagonist.
The premise held promise but the prose didn't deliver.
One could argue it is a reflection to the time in which it was created.
I'll concede that point but great literature should be timeless.Maybe Paget becomes a more interesting character in subsequent novels.
I am guessing that Patterson has refined his craft.
I'm just not certain I am willing to find out.
I like to read authors' works in chronological order. This book takes place in the 70's, so there was a natural disconnect with some aspects of the book. Solid story. I liked the characters. Glad I can now move on towards more recent works.
Pretty good for a first novel, although you can see the rough edges in some places. A quick read, well plotted until the abrupt and surprise ending, which I am sure will not please some people. His later novels are, for the most part, much better. Recommended to any Patterson fans.
This wasn't my favorite book. It just seemed like some of it was a bit predictable to me. The main characters "love" interest didn't feel believable since they never really had a relationship outside of a weekend together. This could have been a much better story.
The lead up to the end was an enthralling and suspenseful read however the ending was slightly abrupt. All was said and done in a flash. Dispite the ending an enjoyable read. Will give number 2 in the series a go as well.
The Lasko TangentI would not recommend this author or his work to anyone. Slow-paced and reeks of ennui. A great novel if you are bored and ready for bed. Better than Unisom or Ambien for sleeping.
I read his later Christopher Paget novels years ago and finally found an old copy of this one. I had to force myself to finish it. I found it very boring; I'm glad his later novels got better.
Very good book. I like the writing. The end was abrupt. I liked that it got to the action, didn’t beat around the bush. Will continue on with this series.
Builds to a strong finish.A complex story that retains its suspense all the way to the very end.The lead character has to go rogue to determine what happened and why.
ExcellentExcellent, fast paced read. I hope this is not the last we have seen of our anti-hero. There is a lot more to learn about hi.
Great characters and story! North Patterson is one of my favorite writers.
Leggere il primo libro di uno dei propri autori preferiti è sempre una sensazione particolare; quand
Chris Paget is a lawyer with the Economic Crimes Commission and he has a reputation of being a bit a a maverick, but his bosses assign him to investigate some security dealing by a big businessman with a shady reputation and also a friend of the President.
When Chris gets some leads he has to fight his boss to follow up and eventually goes around him and goes it on his own.
A lead ends up dead and Chris gets some threatening calls as he continues to dig.
He gets tied up with another lawyer from the front office and despite an initial cold shoulder ends up in a relationship.
My first R N Patterson book and definitely not my last.
I noted from other reviewers that his early books were not as good.
If that's the case I look forward to reading all his later stuff.
I agree that the plot was not twisting and turning every other page, but sometimes I just want to read something not too taxing and easy to follow.
The good little guy up against the bad, high flying, powerful businessman and a host of others.
It's well written, good characters, easy to read and not too long.
I wasn't looking for anything too challenging and that's exactly what I got.
This is an early work by Richard North Patterson, and it is not very good.
This novel is so predictable and trite that it verges dangerously close to 'boring'.
Christopher Paget is an agent for The Economic Crimes Commission, and he is after, William Lasko, a politically powerful industrialist, and friend of the president, for illegal stock manipulation.
One of the witnesses is killed right before his eyes, and Paget is convinced that Lasko had him killed to cover-up his evil machinations.The characters are poorly developed, and the plot is pedestrian at best.
This would not even make a good 'beach read'.
A great mix of lawyers, government, politics and the little guy standing up to the big guy.
Richard North Patterson’s character Christopher Paget is someone I really enjoyed reading about.
This was a quick, easy read, only a little over two hundred pages.
There were a lot of twists and turns, I could never figure out what was coming up next, which I really enjoy.
The ending was abrupt, but I was told that the next books in the series do flashbacks to this book which clears up any questions you may have.
A great start to a promising series!
#1 in the Christopher Paget series. 1980 Edgar Award for Best First Novel.Christopher Paget, U.S. Attorney for the Economic Crimes Commission is looking into a charge of stock manipulation by the notorious William Lasko. Lasko is a friend of the President and the chief prosecutor is looking for promotion. Against urgings to maintain a low profile, Chris travels to Boston and the Caribbean on the trail of deceit and murder.
The plot kept me interested and guessing what would happen next. I really liked the main character. This was the perfect mix for me of lawyers, government, politics, and corruption that needs to be brought to justice. This was Patterson's first novel and it's a great first effort. Sometimes the author has characters make comments that seem like inside jokes that I don't get. Other than that, I really liked this book.
I decided to read this book after reading Degree of Guilt, the second novel of this series, which I had found just outstanding. I must say I was left rather disappointed by The Lasko Tangent; I discovered after that this was R N Patterson debut novel, and I must say it shows. The plot lacks the intensity of his subsequent books, the characters lacks the depth you find in the other novels; all in all, a honest book but definitely not at the same levels of the others by the same author.
It was an interesting mystery. ChrisPaget realizes that Lasko is into something big, not just a little crime of stock manipulations & that Lasko is killing to prevent the truth from being discovered. He really doesn't know who to confide in as the mystery pieces start to fit together & Lasko is out to get him too.
This was Patterson's first book and the first of what are now three Christopher Paget stories. It was good. His style was a little strange in the beginning but it got a lot better or I became more comfortable with it; in his introduction to the re-issue of this book he said that his style then was different from his style now. The plot held my attention and it was a quick, easy read
I am in full agreement with K1d2's review. That why I "liked" that review. The only thing I would add is that my emotional response while reading the first half of this book was "Just why is he putting up with this crap from all these people?". Of course my next thought was because if he didn't the book would end right here, duh. :P
