https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1429214.Wicked_Uncle
Her distant cousin and self-appointed ‘guardian’ Justin is there because his high-society friend Moira asked him to drive her down when she had been implored by the host to show up.Everyone is in some way connected to the host – either through friends or other people.
Yet many people do not even know who their host really is.
All they know is that he has a hold over them in some way and he has arranged this weekend for both his amusement and to collect what he can from his ‘guests’.Blackmail.
This is the first book I've read in the series that started to get the least bit repetitious. It did not detract from my enjoyment however.
Soon it is a job for Lamb, Abbott, and Miss Silver, trying to find out who hated him enough to want him dead..I was fairly certain I knew who it was about half way through, not because I followed all the diagrams and descriptions of who was standing in the hall with the dagger, but because there were only two people who had the right temperament to do the job.There is always a romance, or two, in these books.
Sometimes I wish the girls were not such passive characters.
Dorinda was particularly damp.
Wicked Uncle (Miss Silver #12), Patricia Wentworth
This is a 'turn the page' mystery, almost a suspense. There are a lot of characters, but Ms. Wentworth does a good job of keeping them straight. I like the mystery format. The reader gets the characters and the mystery and Scotland Yard. Then, Miss Silver magically appears on the scene and solves the case. Miss Silver seems secondary to the story even though she comes through at the end. Recommend.
A good standard entry in this series, seen mainly through the eyes and thoughts of young Dorinda Brown, pleased to get a job as nanny.
But when her young charge turns out to have a snapshot of her disappeared/dead wicked uncle, and when she is charged with shoplifting, things get worrying ...Then when the menacing Gregory Porlock invites a group of unacquainted friends, including Dorinda, to his home, the house party takes on a sinister edge.
The host himself is stabbed in the back, and it becomes clear to all that he was a blackmailer.
Lovely and pleasant little mystery that kept me guessing until the end. I adore Miss Maudie Silver.
I love Patricia Wentworth's cosy detective stories, starring the inimitable Miss Silver as an early role model for the self-supporting woman whose life doesn't revolve around her family.
Her relationship with her elderly aunt is sensitively portrayed, as is her friendship with dashing young man about town Justin Leigh who just happens to be a cousin of Dorinda Brown...Anyone who reads a lot of Patricia Wentworth will instantly recognise the handy cousin relationship she deploys frequently to create connections between characters and allow them to stay in the same house for plot convenience.
When a successful blackmailer includes a traitor, a bigamist, a murderer, a black marketeer and a girl facing social ruin among his weekend guests, he is asking for trouble.
He misjudges the power of the fears he has aroused.
After being stabbed to death, suspicion is attached to all of his guests, it is Miss Silver who apprehends the guilty party.
After Gregory Porlock invites a group of unacquainted friends to his house party, the blackmailing host is found dead from a stab wound in the back, and Miss Silver must discover which guest made certain the party was over.
Light, non-tense who-dun-it. Clever enough to keep one guessing. Not many of the men in this book are admirable; most of their attached women are suffering ... Greg Porlock is not a nice man, and no one mourns him when he is stabbed in the middle of the back one evening during a round of charades. The problem is too many of the guests have good reason to wish him dead ... so who stabbed him in the dark?
Maybe because I was sick when I read this, but this was less fun than many of the other Miss Silver mysteries even though I liked the premise. There were too many repetitions of where everyone was standing and not enough of the characterizations I like. Would have liked to see more of Moira, for example.
A young woman takes a position as a rich woman's companion, and the family is invited to a weekend party. Nearly everyone in attendance is being blackmailed by the host, who doesn't survive the evening. Suspects abound, but Miss Silver determines the guilty party.
I enjoyed this book because it was quick paced and Miss Silver is instrumental from the start!
Solid, well-paced, enjoyable mystery.
Heerlijk tussendoortje.
Not the best I've read in this series but still very enjoyable.
Early Bird Deal and gift card | Read the same day as I read another, then waited to write the review and now can't recall which I was pleasantly surprised by.
Another one I didn't enjoy very much -- for the mirror-reverse of the reasons I didn't like Latter End.
(view spoiler)[Gregory is so very unpleasant that I didn't want to be in the room with him, and the scenes with him just went on and on -- and then, of course, almost everyone at the house is equally unpleasant, so that the reader doesn't have to feel bad no matter who the suspect is, because they're all nasty pieces of work.
This is a trope Christie uses sometimes, but for me it keeps the novel from being soothing or comfortable, which is my only real reason for reading them.
(hide spoiler)]I hope this doesn't mean I've figured out the formula sufficiently that I won't enjoy any of them going forward!
When a character is framed in Wicked Uncle, Miss Silver is the person who has been observant enough to watch what really happened, and brave enough to speak out and insist on setting the matter straight.
A group of people with hidden secrets are invited to a get-together held by Gregory Porlock, a man who seems charming and genial on the surface, but who is really a ruthless blackmailer.
It’s possible that I just didn’t connect with the main character, Dorinda Brown, very well – other heroines in Wentworth’s books have seemed much stronger and bolder.
I particularly enjoy how the relationship between Maud Silver and the Scotland Yard man, Frank Abbot continues to develop.Recently I viewed new presentations of a couple of Miss Marple stories on PBS Masterpiece Mystery and do think there are some similarities between Miss Marple and Miss Silver.
It has been many years since I read the Agatha Christie mysteries, but I am finding that I really like Miss Silver, as a personality, better, and I think she is much more clever and subtle and not so doddering.
I wonder why PBS has not done these mysteries, and if they did, who would they get to play Miss Maud Silver.
Dorinda Brown was raised by her aunt who was married to Glen Porteous, who stole most of her money and left her.
Mr. Tote and his wife made their money in the black market during the war; actor Leonard Carroll, gave away secrets to the Germans during WWI; Mrs. Linnet Oakley was married to Glen and remarried after Glen left her; Geoffrey Masterman falsely inherited money from his aunt by hiding her new will; and the beautiful society woman, Moira Lane stole her aunts valuable bracelet.
Then Dorinda finds out that the host is the "wicked uncle", and he is murdered after dinner.
Dorinda Brown takes a job working for a wealthy family on a whim, and quickly finds it to be the hardest position she has ever had.
The father is always working.
His wife is entirely blind to the defects of her despicable son, and unsympathetic to the pain he causes his governesses.All that Dorinda can stand, for she needs the job.
All told, it adds up to a frightful mystery—the sort that only Miss Maud Silver, the governess-turned-detective, can solve.I downloaded this as an audio book without realizing it was a Maude Silver.
Patricia Wentworth is one of my favorite authors and I thoroughly enjoyed listening to the Audible edition of this book.
I would say I have read this book at least 3 times and while it is not one of my favorite in the Miss Silver series it is still a wonderful mystery.
Miss Silver is a little like Agatha Christie's Miss Marple, they are both elderly ladies living in England in the early 50's and each has a gift for detection and finding out secrets while quietly sitting and listening to others talk while they knit.Although in Miss Marple's case she is a amateur detective, Miss Silver is a paid consulting detective and quite good at her job.This case involves blackmail, hidden agendas, theft, and of course, murder.The narrator was perfect for this book.
Miss Silver is a combination of Miss Marple and Hercule Poirot.
She sits quietly and knits and then pops in with a small cough to instruct the police on the evidence they have missed.
She works not like Miss Marple in understanding human nature and generalizing from it, but like Poirot, knows what clues are missing and how to find them.This is only the second Miss Silver I have read.
I haven't got a real handle on her character yet, except that she is a former governess and knits a lot.
I will read more of these because I am intrigued with her.
I’ve been on a Patricia Wentworth kick the past few weeks. She writes old-fashioned, cozy mysteries where in most cases no one will miss the murder victim (or the eventually revealed murderer). Wicked Uncle is a great example, with a gathering of perfect suspects and victims with few redeeming characteristics. Of course, there is a plucky young heroine with a predictably happy-ending romance. Miss Silver, a former governess turned detective, unravels the mystery as quickly as she knits up a pink vest for her great-niece.
One of the mid-range Miss Silver novels in terms of quality. There are some that are better, but definitely also some that are worse. This is a nice country-house murder, with a victim whom no one could possible regret. Patricia Wentworth can mostly be relied upon to not kill off the people you really like, nor have them be the murderer, both of which are good things in a proper cozy mystery. I won't have anything to do with some of the things that are called cozy these days, but Patricia Wentworth wrote terrific ones.
Taking the position of personal secretary to Mrs. Linnet Oakley in Surrey, Dorinda Brown finds herself on a strange path where past and present connections collide. An uncle who disappeared with her aunt's money some years back, false shoplifting charges levied against her, secrets, blackmail and murder; these items are conncected and explained with the help of Miss Silver.Miss Maud Silver is of the Miss Marple school of detection. Quiet and unassuming, innocuous in appearance and demeanour, but ever so sharp in solving life's mysteries.
Dorinda is chipper about her new job. Old hands at the job-search game warned her against becoming Mrs. Oakley's assistant, but no one could have predicted either their neighbor's murder or his identity. Gregory Porlock's attempts to tinker with Dorinda's life don't have the effect he planned - thanks to Miss Silver.My reading log tells me I read this 25 years ago, and I didn't feel even the faintest echo as I read it this time. Not memorable, but nice, I conclude.
I thought i had read all the Miss Silver books so this one came as a pleasant surprise. I did guess who had dunnit pretty much straight away, but the story unfolded very nicely and there was much less of the rehashing of evidence etc that sometimes goes on in Miss Silver books. There wasn't an awful lot of Miss Silver in it, but she was busy with the needles in each appearance. ;o)
It was a bit of a slow start, but once I got into it a bit, the story moved nicely. It's billed as a Miss Silver mystery, but she plays a somewhat minor role in the whole story. The story was very interesting, in the tradiion of British parlour mysteries. I liked the main characters, Dorinda Brown and Justin Leigh. Very enjoyable mystery.
