https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/177406.The_Kin_of_Ata_Are_Waiting_for_You
Freud was one of the forerunners in dream psychology in which dreams often contained sexual overtones.
The theories of Jung, a colleague of Freud, is listed as an influence on the back cover synopsis.
The book and it's contents contain less sexual references than one would presume.
I continued reading and found wonderful character growth, development and transformation which can be compared to climbing Maslow's heirarchy of needs: basic needs (air, water, food, shelter, sleep, sex), safety and security, love and belongingness, self actualization (vitality, creativity, self-sufficiency, authenticity, playfulness, meaningfulness).
Dorothy Bryant’s 1971 novel, originally promoted as science fiction, is described as “part love story, part science fiction, and at once Jungian myth and utopian allegory.” But by today’s standards, it’s a straightforward exploration of connecting to the highest and best parts of ourselves and living according to that guidance.Story: The kin of Ata live only for the dream.
Entertain and educate–the perfect combination for new age fiction.The title confounds me a bit because it sheds very little light on what the book is actually about; the back cover description suffers from this shortcoming as well.
Can anyone recommend her other works?For more reviews of spiritual/metaphysical novels, see Fiction For A New Age.

I read this book as part of my Literature of Mysticism, Meditation and Madness course in college.
Bryant writes from the point of view of a very conflicted man who has hit rock bottom.
I loved this book!
The main character's journey from a broken man with no discernible conscience to a spiritually aware entity was both trying and beautiful.
Bryant's anti-hero starts out committing terrible acts, and yet each step leads him inevitably to enlightenment.
This book is more than just a story about one man's evolution, it is a field guide and road map for us all.
I read the first chapter of this book on a thursday, didnt pick it up again until the next monday in which I read the entire book.
After I turned the last page and finally closed the book I was sad to put it down.
The Kin of Ata is ultimately a story of spiritual growth mixed with a love story, thrown in with touches of feminism and psychology and philosophy.
It makes you think of human nature and also questions the accepted ways people on earth currently live.Do yourself a favor and pick it up, it's a quick and pretty simple read but its packed with great content and a good intent.
That is some phallic shit going on, and far be it for me to turn down such a phallic-looking cover, especially a book I had never heard of before.Turns out Dorothy Bryant is this mystical, feminist writer that I just somehow have never heard of.
Wake up and sex that shit up.I can see plenty of flaws with the way it's portrayed in the novel, but I do find dreams fascinating, Jung's theories also fascinating, and I will admit to letting my dreams sway my decisions sometimes more than I probably should.
My short and simple review: Read this book!!!
I enjoyed this book ~ teaching wrapped up as a good page turner/mystery. I have heard about it over the years and it showed up as a recommendation at the perfect moment, the ending of a heart relationship. Reading it took me through the first weeks after parting and it was soothing and inspiring at the same time.
In it, the author invokes precedence after precedence after precedence about why it would be a horrible idea for the United States to be simply Massachusetts and Vermont and New York, pointing at examples ranging from the past Roman Empire to the contemporaneous (at the time) British Empire in response to arguments that commercial relations and/or republican democracy would lead to peace on earth and no need for ongoing critical dialectic.
It's the most long winded and complicatedly syntaxed calling of bullshit I've seen in a long time, but my reactions to TKofAAWfY matches the long ago author's reaction to the idea of no federal government.
One of Alice Walker's favorite books.
I read this book for a class that I attended at a Liberal Studies Program - Hutchins School at Sonoma State University in CA.
The class was regarding consciousness and reality where this was a perfect book for the subject matter of the course.It's an easy and short read about an alternative reality/utopia where the members lived in an egalitarian society.
However, reading the book lead the class into some interesting thoughts and conversations on the nature of society, crimes, punishments, and reality.I recommend this book for readers interested in feminist fantasy, those who question our social mores, and anyone interested in alternative societies and utopias.
This is a book I would classify as just not my cup of tea.
The idea was interesting, a man whose life is spiraling downhill because of his uncontrolled demons, is transported to a mysterious island where the people lead a simple life.
There he discovers the real life force hidden behind daily life.
I can see how the book would appeal to some.
My problem was that I disliked the main character and I found the islanders and their life style annoying.
It is someone else's vision for the meaning of life, a philosophy if you will, that does not appeal to me.
This is one book I remember liking, a lot, and I keep seeing on the shelf of my local used bookstore. Every time I go to buy it, I remember all the other books I already own that I want to read, and so I stop. But, after reading other's reviews on here, I think I'll buy it next time I'm at the bookstore.
I just finished this book and I immediately had to write about how good it was. It's one of those books that, once finished, aren't actually over. I can tell I'm going to be thinking about it fortl the next few days and trying to find the rhythm of Ata myself, doing as much donego as I can.
This is a fabulous book--turned my thinking around--fantasy and about the human condition.
MY NEW FAVORITE BOOK.
The unnamed narrator is a very successful, nasty man who, after making a name for himself as a poet, exploits his small measure of fame and position to acquire a cushy teaching job that allows him to do very little work while seducing his students.
He marries a wealthy woman and exploits her father’s contacts in the publishing world to launch himself as a writer of bestselling spy novels that eventually make him rich and famous.
The island is never identified, leading one to believe it may only be a higher consciousness by the end of the novella.Dreams are everything in this novel.
Wow, I’m actually a little surprised (and just noticing this now) that this book was written by a woman.
And I was surprised it was written by a woman because the sex scenes starring the (male) protagonist really came off like a male would write sex scenes in the 60s.
The writing at those points really cast the female as an object and it just felt very ummmm awkwardly written, like the plot of a porn film.But setting aside the weakness of the character history and development of the protagonist, and focusing on the philosophy of the work, I think Bryant did a great job in that regard.
In other words, could a society like that really exist in which everyone strives towards the goal of peacefully living with one another without jealousy, envy and greed?
In the world in which we live, it seems an impossibility.
The brilliant part about this book is that it suggests that there is a possibility that a world like that could inform this one in deeper ways that we can imagine.
I am leaving the book here at our 'temporary home', with the hope that others will pick it up and gain something from it, and also that I might somehow cross paths with it again sometime.
Refreshingly different. Easily one of those books that stays with you weeks, months or even years after you have read it.I've read it several times, usually 2-3 years apart. Each time I understand more of how it has affected my world view. I read 40-50 books per year. I'd put this book in my "Top Ten Best Books I Have Read In My Lifetime" list. (I'm 70 years old) It's in there with Walden, Dune, Siddartha, etc.
This is one of those books that did not work for me, the main character was too simple, the story somewhat predictable or similar to others I have found with pantheistic/new age views of the world. Although some other reviewers have found it entertaining, so I would recommend going to them for more information.
Great book, using the protagonist as an extreme example of human greed pulling us from what makes us happy, the story becomes about how someone can becomes centered and what that brings. A major theme in the story is how easy it is to look down upon something greater than ourselves.
Um livro sobre sonhos, sobre uma nova forma de enxergar a realidade por meio de um personagem que provoca no leitor uma antipatia instantânea, mas cuja mudança vamos acompanhando com a mesma paciência das pessoas de Ata, um lugar onde eu gostaria muito de estar em dias sombrios como os nossos.
A 1970s sf novel in which a flawed narrator is redeemed encountering a classless society, and through the act of dreaming create new ways of being. Recommended if you like Starhawk's the Fifth Sacred Thing, Daniel Quinn's Ishmael, even UKLG.
a novel and at the same time a very insightful read ... a real treasure
This is my favorite book I've ever read. I read it roughly ten years ago and am way overdue to re-read it. When I do so I'll write a review.
Beautiful simple pose, underrecognized genius.
Read this book twice over 20 years ago - before marriage - before kids -would be interesting to read it again!
I appreciate it because it shows us the main character living his life following the wrong path within his own original community.
It shows us where he came from before showing us how he develops into a life so much better through his work with the Kin. It also makes for a powerful bookend with the final chapter, whose surprise I will not reveal.This is a powerful parable that demonstrates how much impact living mindfully can have, and also how important developing healthy communities is for the happiness and peace of all.
Here are some of my favorite quotes:I was used to superficial conventions of clothing, grooming and manner.Even so, I easily saw that, regardless of my talents, degrees without contacts would get me nothing but the starvation of a serious writer or the dull security of teaching.“To work too hard is donagdeo; it will give you sore muscles and a headache.
They are better.”But the next time I began to complain to Augustine, I saw the whining female of my dream, and my words were too funny to continue.“I didn’t really decide to stay.
