https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6329011-the-borough-treasurer
A well written classic mystery, if that's your interest, I think Fletcher always does quite a good job at presenting such... I think I may have given it a different title though the significance of this one took a while to kick-in but that just keeps you reading...Good cosy mystery..
When Raymond Chandler castigated writers of Golden Age detective fiction in 'The Simple Art of Murder' he failed to take account of the fact that for most people, reading is escapism, not a quest for absolute accuracy.
He also omitted to note that the quality of writing is often the most important part of a book.
JS Fletcher writes extremely well and immerses the reader in the plot from the first page.
Thus his books achieve their aim, providing the escapism the reader seeks.
The Borough Treasurer is no exception, an enjoyable tale that keeps you guessing to the end, even if the characters are not hard boiled enough for Chandler.
Another enjoyable J. S. Fletcher mystery. He has quite a large cast of interesting characters in this one, and manages to bring them all to life with great detail. Secrets abound, many of the shady characters have a notable soft side, and suspicion is cast among several of them. Lots of action and twists. I listened to this book as a free audio download from LibriVox.org. First published in 1919.
Classic murder mystery featuring two upstanding citizens in northern towns who wish to keep their past secret.
An historical murder mysteryI enjoyed reading this book. Just when you think you know "who did it", more details come out. Then when you are sure, the end surprises you.
Enjoyable classic murder mystery.
Good vintage mystery by a classic author. Recommended.
This is the second J.
S. Fletcher I've read.
The first one, The Middle Temple Murder wasn't half bad.
Modernize the language, add a flashy cover, and Bingo!
Best seller for sure!
Although it was written in the 1920s, the plot is not at all what you'd expect.
There is murder (of course), theft, embezzlement, blackmail, double-crossing, double-double-crossing, and much, much more.
Agatha Christie this is not!If you are looking for a nice little cosy to keep you entertained, you may want to look elsewhere.
If you are looking for a riveting read that grabs you and doesn't let go...you've found it!
An OK read, but far far too complicated. Fletcher liked to pull his denouements out of a hat, and the one that got picked here is just one of a number of possibilities. Unfortunately there are not one but two 'romances' [which he did poorly in every book of his I've read] here facilitated by four bodies on the ground, putting paid to the mystery, but leaving plenty of room for the romances to come to a happy end. There certainly are better Fletcher books, but while this one is frequently tedious, there are decent bits.
This was a murder myster set in England at the turn of the century. It had a strong narrative and interesting characters, but the plot was so predictable that even I could figure it out before the end of the book (and I'm one that never figures it out before the end!)
Free download available at Project Gutenberg.
