https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/26135825-fun-home
Yes. Cool, clever, really hip, I mean, really, as far as I can tell, my hipometer needs a new battery I think; it was not the least bit funny, but that's not such a bad thing, and...Stares at ceiling.Has sudden thought.Hey, you don't think Alison Bechdel will read this do you, she's not one of those Goodreads authors who suddenly jump up like a damned jack in a box and scare the jesus out of you and tell you they devoted five years of hard graft to this work you've just more or less sneered at and damned with the faintest possible praise, I really hope not, that's not happened to me yet but I know it's happened to a few of you and it's not pretty, some of you were mildly traumatised, I saw it with my own eyes, you had to be led away to a quiet good place with a small cat to stroke.So...
Each one on its own could be a personal essay about overcoming an unusual hardship, but the episodes are tied together by recurring moments - the scene in which Alison learns her father's deepest darkest secret over the phone; the stack of literature on homosexuality that grows and grows on her nightstand in college; her father writing letters to her mother from his bunk during the war - and references to classic literature that are carefully, artfully implemented and never daunting.As a memoir, Fun Home is beautifully arranged and as honest and unapologetic as they come.
To put it in less crude terms, both books overflow with self-conscious references to classic literature (both use The Odyssey in a major way).
However, this is not a review of The Song of Solomon, so I suppose I will set aside that grudge for now.This is how I feel: any person, no matter how mediocre his/her life might be perceived, can be made into a great story.
However, if the facial expressions were rendered differently, and if Bechdel shook out the masturbatory references and word definitions, she might have sold me.
When it dealt with Alison's own life or her father's struggles to find himself, the book is strongest, but it spends a lot of time holding up their story against a backdrop of classic literature (which her father so loved), and after a while I didn't enjoy those portions as much.
However, as someone who wishes his father was still alive so we could have conversations about life there never seemed to be time for then, I found 
....I knew NOTHING about this book -TERRIFIC/ SPECTACULAR-until it was in my hands today......(other than it was a highly recognized-graphic memoir - chosen best book of the year by at least 10 major publications in 2006).80, 4333 people rated this book -- so where was I?
If anybody has lived through having their bathroom or kitchen remodeled--you know personally what the disruption feels like.
Suggestion: If you have not read this book, know 'nothing' about it......(having not read 'any' reviews- no blurbs- 'nothing'- have been living under a rock like I have ), if you are willing to 'trust'.....
It's Sooooooo worth reading!!!!!!!Another TOP- TOP - TOP graphic memoir!!!!!!
Works doubly as a hugely terrific autobiography & a megaengaging graphic novel.
In FUN HOME, there is a tremendous longing to merge both of these Arts.
Astute, cheeky & enthralling, it brings together disparate themes like 'Wind in the Willows" and "The Importance of Being Earnest" and "Catcher in the Rye", as well as A Chorus Line & Joyce's Ulysses: pretty much a choose-your-own-literature type adventure that possibly every single reader of this flawless book could relate to.Ten dollars to you if the last page/frame of this doesn't make you B.O.L.*PS: We are watching the musical this January!
Oh blessed New Year!*(Bawl Out Loud)
She's the one that invented the appropriately-named Bechdel Test for movies.If you don't know about the test, it bears talking about.
Does the movie have two female characters in it?
2. Do the two female characters have at least one conversation?
To me, the truly interesting thing about this test isn't how many movies utterly fail it.
(This book has a *ton* of awards and accolades.) Did I like it?
No. I admire the craft in the book.
Books I whole-heartedly enjoy and admire are still in the top 5%.
Yes. That said, you're more likely to enjoy it if you're a recovering English major.
And considering that it was such a big focus here, I was left out of the loop a lot, which ended up lowering my enjoyment while reading.Also, I was made entirely uncomfortable with her father and his violent tendencies towards his family, his preying on young boys, and his overall behavior towards the naïve.I did like how something that Alison Bechdel mentioned in the first half would then get completed in the second half.
My life is such a hot ass mess right now that it took me a week to read this even though I loved it.
Whereas most graphic novels are quick, fun reads, this is unlike anything I've read before because it’s so rich with meaning.
This is like a literary fiction novel tucked into a graphic novel.
It made me think, it wowed me with its language, and it definitely provoked a lot of thought about family and sexuality and...
I guess autobiographical graphic novels are my favorite because this and Blankets by Craig Thompson are some of the best I've read in that genre.
Having lost a father at 14, I know how it feels trying to grasp at straws, trying to analyze one seemingly inconsequential incident or subjecting one precious shared moment to intense and concentrated scrutiny from all possible angles.
You will never know him the way you could have.Unlike Bruce Bechdel who grappled with the stark contradiction between his public reality and private urges all his life, my father didn't particularly have any skeletons in his closet.
But what stopped me from rating this any higher is the painfully overwrought sentence construction Bechdel employs which aside from being cringe-worthy at times creates an unwanted dissonance between the import of an emotional moment and its actual graphical representation and execution.
Hmmm...Well, I wanted to read this for some time, mostly because Alison Bechdel is probably one of the more prominent names that both authors and readers are aware of these days due to her test.
Anyway, I wanted to like this more than I did.
You see, I'm not really a fan of graphic novels, but it worked here to illustrate her points.
However, this whole book felt more like a project of self-analysis than a commercial product.
It was extremely personal, yet cold and detached--like Alison's parents, which I think is the entire point.3 stars overall because there was something there, but that just wasn't entertainment.
I did that a lot in this book too, and while I didn't come to a clear answer, I did find many frames that were not just augmented, but wholly changed, for the better of course, by the compliment of the illustration.
With a short phrase of text that only harkens back to an anecdote related earlier in the chapter, the reader is free to attach all the end-of-chapter meaning to this large image, which is the graveyard, at twilight (probably; the shadows are long), empty but for Alison lying on her back in front of her father's monument, her bike on its side next to her.
(I can't recall ever having read a graphic novel before, so in that sense the entire experience of this book was new to me.)The book was published when Bechdel was in her mid-40s, and tells the story of her own life, up to just before her twentieth birthday, and her father’s life, up to the same point in time, when he was run over by a truck - possibly accidentally, possibly as a suicide.Some of the things I will remember about the book, in no particular order:1.
So ...I'm looking forward to reading Bechdel’s newest graphic book, Are You My Mother, the story of her relationship with her mother.
With my father's death following so hard on the heels of this doleful coming-out party, I could not help but assume a cause-and-effect relationship.If I had not felt compelled to share my little sexual discovery, perhaps the semi would have passed without incident four months later.Why had I told them?
While I didn't love the author's writing style, it's still a story worth telling.And if you get the chance, go see the musical "Fun Home." It's fantastic and a really clever adaptation of the book.Meaningful Quotes"Sometimes, when things were going well, I think my father actually enjoyed having a family.
I'm not an expert on this form, and feel self-conscious critiquing graphic literature because of this, but let's work through this.Fun Home: A Family Tragicomic details growing in a cold home where all the occupants isolated themselves in artistic pursuit.
Her compositions similarly fail to employ white or negative space, and the final product feels impossibly bland.Singularly, the writing and the art are mostly dull, but combined, they make a potent combination of bad.
The paper had to do with narrative strategies that children use for uncovering and witnessing their parents' trauma -- in this book, the narrator Allison tries to piece together her father's life into a narrative she wants to read as that of a closeted gay man.
Naming her coming out of the closet as the catalyst for her father's death removes blame from her mother, whose request for divorce might otherwise provide a suicide motive.
Find all of my reviews at: http://52bookminimum.blogspot.com/ Confession time: The only reason I read Fun Home was because it was on the list of most challenged or banned books last year, I had already read more than half of the others on the list and there was a snowball’s chance in hell I’d opt to read The Bible for pleasure.I had also never heard of Alison Bechdel prior to snatching this one up from the library display (such a badass, right????) and had to Google “The Bechdel Test” to find ou

Meticulously wrought, with attention to every single detail in every single panel, this memoir reveals itself fairly early on as a dual "coming out" story of Bechdel and her father.
His obsessive attachment to objects can be seen as an attempt to distance himself emotionally from his family - it may be that he was ashamed of his sexual preferences: a member of his generation could not "come out" in the way Alison could (and did).
This also becomes a metaphor for Alson's home as the story progresses: only here, it is the souls which are given such cavalier treatment.Alison Bechdel's art and narrative are fantastic, with layer upon layer of meaning rarely seen in a comic book.
just insert "Fun Home" in place of "House of Leaves" in Mickey's review:This book looks at you with this smug fucking smile on it's face, daring you to say that you don't like it, knowing that masses of people are going to go along with it because they don't want to look stupid. That's what this is. It's the fucking Radiohead of books. Well, House of Leaves, I am not stupid and I'm calling your bullshit. Fuck you
I wonder pretty often what the point of writing books is, mostly because, well, you know, there are already so many of them...More narrowly, I think I kind of understand why people feel compelled to write memoirs, but I do wonder -- as I remain stalled out on page 236 of Martin Amis's Experience -- why anyone ever reads them.Fun Home answers both of these questions for me, plus a third larger one about what the point is of being alive.
Y lo empecé, y seguí leyendo, y fijándome en cada detalle de cada página mientras me dejaba envolver por la vida de Alison Bechdel, su relación con su padre y una infancia dolorosa con algunos momentos felices.Fun Home trata temas como la homosexualidad, la identidad, la literatura, las relaciones familiares y el hacerse mayor; la vida, básicamente, desde el punto de vista de una niña que creció en una casa funeraria con unos padres distantes y muchos secretos escondidos en cada esquina.
Smart person asks a lot of questions like, "Have you read Proust?" Not because anything about me makes them think I would enjoy Proust.5.
Please note the repeated phrase "to me."I mean, when Bechdel is with a partner, she says:"Joan was not just a visionary and activist, but a bona fide cyclops...she'd lost one eye in a childhood accident vividly reminiscent of the way Odysseus blinded Polyphemus."For those unfamiliar, Polyphemus was this big-ass cyclops dude in The Odyssey.
It's just a book that doesn't interest me or tell a story in a way that I can appreciate.
And I tried to remember any case in the course of my reading where two women are represented as friends.
The structure of the whole is quite complex and Bechdel has described it as a labyrinth, "going over the same material, but starting from the outside and spiraling in to the center of the story." Bechdel’s father, Bruce, was an English teacher and part time undertaker, who it transpires was gay (having relationships with young men, sometimes his students).
We learn very little about Bechdel’s mother or siblings, the focus is on her father and their relationship and on her own growing awareness of her own sexuality.
I'm sure Bechdel's encouraged those who desire the borderline between word and image and copious reference to the classics of theatre and literature, but the gatekeeping with regards to what will make the New York Times Book Review and what will be pointed at as the downfall of humanity still chafes.Of course, for all my indulgence in cultural products from across the ocean, I have a firm grasp on what the US written word is up to and nary a finger on the US graphic novel, so I could be wildly off the mark in terms of what fields of creation are healthy and which are not.
Reading and writing are both very unnatural habits within the context of the general spread of human evolution, y'know.
Shatters all my preconceptions of the graphic novel, reassures me of the form’s capacity for dense literally allusiveness, intellectual analysis and philosophical ponderings.
The story attempts grand parallels between the author and her father, drawing comparisons with Fitzgerald, Proust and Joyce, and overegging the Greek myth a little, but also zips along with humour, eccentricity and a generation of repressed homosexuality.
Even better is Oriana’s review.
If my graphic novel reviews seem short it’s because I’m still learning how to critique the artwork: anyone who can draw a circle sans compass is a genius to me.
As well, it sums up everything that makes this work artistically and thematically remarkable, an important contribution to literary treatments of emotional trauma and to American letters more generally.In this snapshot, re-drawn and recreated with painstaking detail by the author, a young Bruce Bechdel stands shirtless and lissome in front of his home, eyes trained directly at the reader.
Fun Home is an exercise in retrospective exploration; the work engages visual and textual narratives through which the author is able to reconfigure memories of her adolescence as well as the specific moment of trauma out of which many questions of identity and selfhood for the author arose: the moment she discovered that her father committed suicide.
3.5/5.
Bechdel intrigues me because not only can she do that, but she can tell her own story in that format.
On one hand it's the story of her life growing up in a funeral home with her two younger brothers and both her emotionally distant parents.
(Or at least I think it does because we don't talk about it if it doesn't.)In any case, for a graphic memoir, I appreciated what Bechdel did here.
Fun Home is the biographic story of Alison Bechdel herself, who grows up with a repressed and strict homosexual father, who dies a few days after Alison herself has come out as a lesbian.
I get therefore their significance, but the many mentions of Proust, Camus and Fitzgerald made the story complicated to read.
Thankfully Alison’s art conveys emotion without words, making moments like the last talk in the car very moving.
It’s due to this and Alison’s brave introspective that makes Fun Home such a beautiful and bittersweet biography.
