https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/31122069-the-lay-of-aotrou-and-itroun
In the delldeep in the forest silence fell.No sight nor slot of doe he foundbut roots of trees upon the groundand trees like shadows waiting stoodfor night to come upon the woodSo he causes his own fate, a lamentable end, but one that ultimately failed to deliver dramatically.
Suffice to say, this poem isn’t my favourite of Tolkien’s, though I did really enjoy the scholarship in this edition.
I’d only recommend to this to those that have already ready read beyond Tolkien’s fantasy works, those that have enjoyed his version of  Beowulf, The Legend of Sigrund and Gudren and The Fall of Arthur.
Lots of editorial filler here, as usual, but the title poem has that distant, high sounding, archaic thing going that Tolkien fans find so satisfying.
Still, it's a fine story, and the other two poems included, “The Corrigan” and “The Corrigan II,” really do, as intended, show us how Tolkien adapted pieces of ballad, folklore, and myth to suit his ideas.
The first two parts of the book, up to page 55, are worth reading.
I enjoyed this, and the value added by the Corrigan poems and Flieger's commentary was enough to make me glad that I didn't just read the PDF of The Lay of Aotrou & Itroun which is available, free, online.
Predivna mala knjizica u kojoj su uporedo predstavljeni i srpski prevod i engleski originalni tekst. Rima je prosto magicna, prosta ali ispletena nadivnijim recima koje su i same po sebi prava lepota. Jedina stvar koja ne lezi uz ovu knjigu je mestmicna pojava hriscanskih motiva.
I'm just going to flat out say that this is a book that only the really devoted Tolkien enthusiast will like or read. It is far different than any of the other of the professors works since this one doesn't take place in Middle-Earth and is actually set during historic Britain. Nevertheless Tolkien is a genius and that shows in everything that he does and his poetry is on spot as ever.
2 STARSA little too scholarly for me. I would have been fine just reading J.R.R. Tolkien's poems with the commentary and left out all the extra junk.
This is a collection of three poems, two shorter ones and a long, that Tolkien wrote while working on The Lord of the Rings.
The poems are a pleasure to read, and it's obvious that some of the ideas here made their way into The Lord of the Rings, albeit in much changed form.
To a linguistic Tolkien scholar, this might be worth the price tag of 24 dollars.
It's a beautiful book, as are most of these releases of Tolkien's unfinished works that have been making their way to the bookshelves.
Exquisite dark poem inspired by Celtic lore and mythology. I prefer those Tolkien scripts, even more than the Middle-earth oriented.
I enjoy works like this and The Fall of Arthur or The Legend of Sigurd and Gudrun that showcase Tolkien's prodigious talents in a non-Middle Earth venue.
I almost take him for granted when reading Middle Earth works; I become so immersed in the story that I don't stop to admire the genius.
Doling out each little bit of Tolkien work in separate books is clearly a marketing strategy.
But, while the latter half of the book is arguably filler, I rather enjoyed seeing the steps of Tolkien's creating and revising process and how he drew from existing ballads and folk tales.
The latest Tolkien napkin doodle to get its own book. My review at my blog.
Or The Story of Lord and Lady. Folklore from Brittany as interpreted by Tolkien. Short, narrative verse. Very good, but not really anything amazing here. I preferred the Lay and the first Corrigan work. Corrigan II is very much a build up to the Lay. Certainly worth reading.
This was a quick read, but fascinating, especially as it was pretty much all new to me.
I've seen complaints about the length, but this shorter volume felt appropriate to me, a lean and focused compilation along the lines of Tolkien's Finn & Hengest translation and notes edited by Alan Bliss.
Verlyn Flieger is easily my second favorite editor of these translations after Christopher himself, too.
Her wide range of knowledge on comparative myth along with her deft grasp of Tolkien's own works makes for informative and entertaining reading.I'm hoping we still have years to come of Ms. Flieger and Christopher publishing more of JRR Tolkien's translations, reworkings, and studies of various cultures and myth.
Prof. Tolkien is the poet, the philosopher and the genius. A pure delight to read. Always!
And as with Kullervo it is Tolkien who makes you feel like you need to dive into the mythology deeper, and read all of it.
Where Kullervo does it for Finmish mythology, so Aotrou and Itroun does it for Brettany myth and folklore (Brettany as in the France province).The comparisson with Kullervo does not end there, because both are edited by Flieger.
Maybe I have been spoiled by Christopher's editing of his father's work, but as with Kullervo, I find Flieger's editing to be highly lacking.
So if you're coming here expecting Middle Earth lore you'll be disappointed.The poem itself is fairly simple and tells the story of a lord and lady who can't conceive a child.
The way Tolkien describes Brittany sets the scene and makes for a more grounded and less fantasy based setting.Originally I thought the book was a collection of many different poems but it is essentially different versions of the same poem/story, showing you Tolkien's process and how he developed it.
If you're an avid Tolkien fan I would definitely recommend it as it's always nice to see his thought process, plus there are pictures of his original transcripts and drafts.Overall it was a quick quirky read but it certainly won't appeal to everyone.
The final section of drafts had some interest for me, to see the writing process, but I must admit I didn't read the whole draft version, I wasn't interested in the writing as much as that, I guess!I didn't read this start to finish, first I read the main poem and the 1st of the accompanying poems without introduction and commentary.
This probably isn't for everybody, but I'd recommend it to those who like fairy and folktales, and/or those who like to read stories in a poetic format.
This is another scholarly volume--a scholarly presentation of a poem by Tolkien "The Lay of Aotrou and Itroun," a poem published in The Welsh Review early in his career. The poem, Flieger argues was inspired by the folklore and lais of Brittany, and dates to a period when Tolkien was heavily studying Celtic languages and mythologies. In the poem Tolkien tells a classic faerie encounter tale in which a desperate man seeks the help of the fay and ends by paying a far greater price than he expected.
I am trying hard to get into reading poetry. Thought Tolkien would be a good in. Not sure if my brain is just not cut out for anything longer than 3 verses. The analysis of each piece within the context of itself and the source material origins as well as the stage of Tolkien's career was very interesting to read. I usually just go in for a good story with details description of scenes but am starting to develop a love for literary history. Any suggestions on how to try and enjoy poetry full or for good literary analysis books?
So conflicted about this one. I liked the writing, and I think the book should get at least three stars because it's Tolkien. But I wasn't a big fan of the ending of the main story, and while I learned a lot about Breton folklore and geography, much of the book felt superfluous to me. It certainly has its audience.Still worth a read, though. And it's short enough you don't even have to spend an hour on it. All in all, I'd say give it a try.
It's an OK book if you're a Tolkien fan.For those who like Tolkien and everything he researched, it's an interesting book to read. I would not recommend this book to someone who's not into Tolkien.There are three poems in this book and it tries to tell a story about how Tolkien wrote the final poem. None of them are that great alone but together they show one particular part of Tolkien's style of writing/researching.
I enjoyed this read. While I don't think this book is as good as his Beowulf or The Fall of Arthur, it was still well written and an interesting take on both Breton and Celtic tales and folk lore. I also enjoyed the commentaries, and that early drafts were included. I love seeing how Tolkien revised his work. It helped me see his creative process and how long he took on any given work.
An unusual choice of reading material for me, but it was a fascinating glimpse at the dark side of the fairy world from the pen of Tolkien and his process of writing, rewriting and fine tuning to bring into existence poetic works featuring the "corrigan", a continental Celtic female fairy who is malevolent but also seductive.
A tragic but beautifully-written poem, with some subtle symbolism - for example, the waters of the fay contrasted with the waters of Christendom. Much of this slim volume is devoted to commentary on the poem and to tracing its evolution. It's interesting, but buyers should beware that this book gives multiple versions of essentially the same poem.
Another one of Tolkien's fantastic poetry translations. While it's a bit on the shorter side, this makes it a great entry point if you've yet to enjoy Tolkien's writings from outside the realm of Middle-Earth.
A treat for fans of Tolkien and/or poetry. Demonstrates that JRRT was an undisputed master of rhyme; I never tire of rhyme in his work. The publication includes scholarly analysis which is fun and interesting. You get a glimpse into his revising process.
I was excited to see a book dedicated to a couple of poems by J.R.R. Tolkien. The story was fantastic, and my students really loved the different aspects which the story held. It was really different than the other poetry which we have covered in class this year.
A good little poem surrounded by extra content that gives it context within Tolkien's career. It's not easy to locate, but definitely worth your time if you have an interest/appreciation for old English poetry or Tolkien's body of work.
Loved it, absolutely amazing. The storytelling and the poetry is great as always.I'm just getting a little tired of all the notes and commentory in these book. They are, at least to me, unnecessary.
The poem was good, but too much of a narrative prior to having the whole poem to read at once. The poem should have been the first thing to read. Let the narrative be the closing.
Beautiful poetry.
