https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/564858.The_Return_of_the_Great_Brain
It is smart, engaging, all has basis in reality, teaches children about the world (and the world of 1900), has good lessons, and is, above all, fun.
The only chapter that fell flat was the great brain being stumped by how to rescue his friend from falling in love with a girl.
What I also love about these stories is Tom is both the hero and villain.
All in all, another wonderful book in the best children's series ever.
No fantasy, no sci fi, just good solid story telling of a brother who was very smart and couldn't help but show it off.
The Great Brain books remind me of my childhood.
This trip down memory lane was great, and not just for nostalgia.
I realized as I read the book that the writing is very impressive.
There are some great stories, and the pacing is good too.
Another thing that makes this series good is the theme of people from many different religions all living together, interracting, and cooperating well (for the most part).
It's a contemporary message, and it's unfortunate that kids these days don't know about this series.
I hope my kids will read them, and maybe even try to swindle me a time or two.
The Great Brain gagal total untuk melawan ajian pelet girl's giggling yang membikin temannya, Greg, menjadi gila.
Alkisah The Great Brain bersama adiknya yang malang, J.D., pergi malam-malam ngintip Greg & Sally pacaran untuk sekedar menggali informasi sehingga The Great bisa memahami persoalan dan segera menemukan solusi.
Demikian berbahayanya pelet cinta puppy love, sehingga The Great Brain sendiri tak sanggup memecahkan misterinya.
Maka, berhati-hatilah kalian yang hampir berusia 13 wkwk.Di buku ini juga diceritakan soal pembangunan sekolah baru sehingga Tom tidak harus bersekolah di Salt Lake City.
Dan tak lengkap rasanya jika tidak ada satu bab khusus tentang kepahlawanan Tom menyelamatkan nyawa temannya.
It was great
I love the series through book five, "The Great Brain Reforms" which was a suitable conclusion. This should not have been.
i liked it
We love this series. Entertaining and funny.
Just a lousy kid.
Even Fitzgerald seems to be struggling, as The Return of the Great Brain is a little lackluster and repetitive.
Fitzgerald does include one amusing incident that neither Tom nor any of the other boys can solve or understand: romance.I liked the glimpse of “honest Tom” that we got in The Return of the Great Brain, but the formula is starting to get too repetitive and boring for me.
I like that Fitzgerald is able to come up with new things every book, but he also reuses a lot of things, such as J.D.’s gullibleness, and is pretty repetitive in terms of writing.
Um, yeah.So apparently Sherlock Holmes and Mark Twain somehow managed to have a bastard child named The Great Brain, or Tom as he's called here. He's young, he's smart, he loves profit more than a Ferenghi and he's thoroughly unlikable. I suppose I should have read the previous books in the series before picking this one up, but life does not work like that sometimes. And someone really should have told the illustrator that the kids in the story are about 10 and 12 and not 5 and 6. Good illustrations but had f-all to do with the text.
Read this to my son. This is one of my all time favorites and I've been reading and re-reading this for over 30 years. Great great book.-------------------------------Another re-read, another great time.This one follows the Great Brain as he has supposedly reformed from his conniving ways.Good stuff.
This entry into the series has the same sorts of antics as previous books but doesn't add to the larger character development that reached a climax in The Great Brain Reforms. Since the Great Brain's trial, J.D. is no longer naively worshiping his brother. In fact, he's suspicious and cynical, which is understandable but takes away a lot of the charm of the narrator's voice.
Tom Fitzgerald makes it rich in the next installment of the Great Brain series. Though he's a self-proclaimed reformed conniver, he still manages to find a way to make money off his friends using semi-honest methods. But he puts his Great Brain to good use when it comes time to save the life of a friend, and he earns a dollar doing it.
These are children's/teen books, describing the antics and shenanigans of a group of brothers growing up in Utah in the 1800s. Although that may not seem very interesting, these are probably the best written and most entertaining books of the children/teen adventure genre. I highly recommend all the Great Brain books.
Such a pity there are only two of these left for me to read. I love them the way I loved Encyclopedia Brown when I was little. Everyone is first-rate! This one has a bit more danger in it. Such a fun read!
He couldn't stay reformed forever. Even though his friends have threatened to ostracize him if he pulls even one more con, the Great Brain can't help himself. In this book he has to be more subtle and sneakier than ever.
This is a series that I read as a kid and loved them. I am reading them with my kids now. They are fun and based in a Mormon town. If you're looking for literary quality, you should check elsewhere; they are well-written, just not the highest of quality. The stories, however, are very fun!
It was The Great Brain books that taught me to never talk down to kids, but speak with them as if they were adults. I recall J.D. mentioning that his Uncle Mark, the Marshal, always did that, and it has stuck with me since.
Another great book in the series
I loved this entire series and, now that I've remembered it, I'm going to get it for my son. I think he'll love them, too.
I recently rediscovered this series from when I was a kid. They still hold up 20 years later. One of my favorite children's authors.
All of the Great Brain books are charming, delightful stories to read to your kids. Very cleverly thought out and written. Fun reads.
Delightful, like all the others. Much the same prose, but with new adventures. The kids and I are ready to be done with The Great Brain after reading 6 of them, but not before reading #7!
Awesome is all i can say
A great book for boys! After being introduced to The Great Brain by a teacher reading it in class, I read this entire series a few times as a middle schooler. The stories are wonderfully funny.
I guess this author really did have a brother with a great brain. If these things really happened that boy was amazing.
This may have been my favorite. I think because the other kids finally have a little leverage after the trial from the last book.
The Great Brain is back and is up to no good, as usual. Read this book!!
A very fun(-ny) and quick read!
Alex continues to enjoy these, though they are getting a little formulaic. The Great Brain would have been a hedge fund guy in modern times, no doubt.
