https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/219376.Deathbird_Stories
Not only did he write this story, but he wrote articles about the factual case: "in articles published in 1970 and 1971 in the Los Angeles Free Press and in Rolling Stone, and in 1988 in The Magazine of Fantasy and Science Fiction (June 1988), later reprinted in his book Harlan Ellison's Watching." He referred to the witnesses as "thirty-six motherfuckers" and stated that they "stood by and watched" Genovese "get knifed to death right in front of them, and wouldn't make a move" and that "thirty-eight people watched" Genovese "get knifed to death in a New York street"."Why did Ellison have this agenda to spread a rumor that city dwellers are morally deficient?
I somehow discovered this book when I was a kid.
As dark and violent as it was, I found it weirdly hopeful.
Finally, I thought, an adult who won't fucking lie to you, someone who will just say yes, everything sucks and people are screwed up and the only thing you can do in the face of all this misery is fight, even though you'll probably fail.
Fight, and remember that everyone else is in pain, and never lose your outrage or your compassion.
Not to pile more melodrama onto this paragraph, but it probably saved my life.
Δεν πήγε καλά.Δεν φταίει ο Ellison, εγώ φταίω, που ξέρω ότι έχω μια αλλεργία με τα φουσκωμένα εγώ.Πρώτ’ απ’ όλα, πριν φτάσει κανείς στην πρώτη λέξη του πρώτου διηγήματος, προηγούνται είκοσι σελίδες από: αφιέρωση, βιογραφία από το επίσημο site φίλων του Ellison πήχτρα στα βραβεία στις διακρίσεις και τις μεγάλες συνεργασίες, μια ακόμα πιο σύντομη βιογραφία από τον ίδιο τον συγγραφέα, «παραθέματα και τσιτάτα» του Ellison, ευχαριστίες, πρόλογος από τον ίδιο, ένα γράμμα του Σω προς τον Τολστόι, τρεις ρήσεις του Βολταίρου, του Οβίδιου και του Χάινλαϊν, «Δυο λόγια για τον Χρόνο» ξανά του Ellison, όπου μας εξηγεί πόσο γαμάτη είναι αυτή η συλλογή και πώς θα την έβγαζαν επετειακά στα 25 της χρόνια, αλλά τελικά το έκαναν στα 31 και μισό και πόσο μεγάλη αμηχανία νιώθει (χα!
When I was in high school, this book was banned from our library. So naturally I made a pilgrimage to the public library, checked it out, read it, and basically this is the book that made me want to be a writer. Because it was the first time I realized books had the power to make parents lose their shit. I later bought Harlan's first typewriter, a 1938 Remington Noiseless Portable forged in the fires of Mt Doom. Thanks, Harlan. Give my love to Susan.
i remember when this came in the mail from the science fiction book club when i was twelve. it was like having someone tear out my stomach.
6.0 stars. Another superb collection of short stories by the greatest short story writer of all time. While all of the stories in this collection are excellent, I would mention "The Whimper of Whipped Dogs" as one that particularly affected me when I read it. HIGHEST POSSIBLE RECOMMENDATION!!Winner: British Science Fiction Award for Best Collection (1979)Nominee: World Fantasy Award for Best Collection (1976)Nominee: Locus Award for Best Collection (1976)Voted to the Locus List of All Time Best Collections (6th)
I've read a few of these stories before, but never like this.
No, every story in this book is meant to be read this way, not just a story here and there over the years.
Read it.-"Paingod": What happens when the God of Pain takes an interest in humanity?
It's not what you'd think would happen.
I'm almost certain Warren Ellis has read that one, and Paingod got stuck to his brain stem.-"Ernest and the Machine God": A very manipulative woman in a precarious situation accidentally drives off a cliff and finds herself in a strange town with a very unusual mechanic.
The ending is pretty horrifying, but I kind of wonder what happens with Ernest next.This is a great collection.
enter a fateful trip to the local flea market/second hand emporium.imagine a flea market booth so full of worthless items that it looks like you and a few of your best friends and a few of your friends friends decided, on graduation day, to cram all of your college furniture into a single tomb and seal it off forever.
of course, to me, it looked like a treasure chest.now imagine a box of books under a rotting futon.
imagine buried deep in the box, almost at the bottom, a book so out of place it might as well be as from another world.
I do love Ellison's literary style and writing in general; however, as in most story collections, some of the themes of the individual stories "worked" for me much more so than others.
In general, I found that I prefered his horror and supernatural-style stories over those that reached into the fantasy and (to a lesser extent) the science fiction areas.The writing is brilliant all throughout, in my opinion.
This one simply hit me emotionally, and the ending packed a lasting punch.Perhaps my absolute favorite in the book was:--"Basilisk": Outwardly, this is a story about a war veteran who is ironically condemned by others for wanting to live.
I didn't know quite what to expect from this volume, especially after reading the author's caveat at the beginning:It is suggested that the reader not attempt to read this book at one sitting.
The emotional content of these stories, taken without break, may be extremely upsetting.
This note is intended most sincerely, and not as hyperbole.Not that this is an issue for me, I never read books in one sitting.
But after finishing these stories I can see what the author means and agree that it is not (at least entirely) hyperbole.
Harlan Ellison is a passionate writer with a unique style.
I've have read many of his story stories, including these in this book.Like most of Ellison's work, these stories are aiming for an emotional effect.
When he hits, it's dead on--but when he misses, for me, it is a complete miss.I seldom feel "so so" about his stories; I like them or I hate them.But, Ellison is a unique and widespread influence in science fiction; you owe it to yourself to read at least one collection of his short stories.
Harlan Ellison is one of my favorite short story writers but his output can be inconsistent.
Deathbird Stories is easily his finest collection.
These works are unflinchingly cynical and brutally honest about the human condition yet it is apparent that the writer hopes that mankind will rise and find something about it that is noble.
Ellison's warning that these stories should not be read in one sitting is good advice.
But stories like "The Whimper of Whipped Dogs" , "Paingod" and "The Deathbird" will haunt you for a very long time.
This collection is apparently Ellison at the height of his powers, an extended New Wave Scifi riff on the themes of gods and sacrifice.
New gods of cities, of highways, of neon lights and computers.
Old gods, bloody monsters buried in the earth or the psyche appearing and exacting a heavy toll from modern people.If there's a word to describe these stories, it's excessive.
When Ellison tempers the excess with humor, as he does in "Along the Scenic Route", a story of roadrage dueling in up-gunned sedans with hoverjets and laser cannons, its quite good.
This collection of short stories started out with a bang, and ended with a whimper. They shouldn’t have front-loaded the best stories.
Firmly set in it's time.The first story in particular was set in the New York City of the 1970's - dirty, dangerous, filled with paranoia and neuroses.
If not for the branding that occurs in the story, we could have read it to be a New York of the future - something that it still can be, rather than something it was so long ago - the story was tired.2.
I understand the theme was about gods and death but for the most part, I could not suspend my disbelief for long enough to buy into the premise for most of the stories - that is, for those I read, because I must confess, that after getting a bit more than halfway through the book, I stopped reading it.
Writing a review for a book filled with short stories is trying.
It’s difficult to judge the book as a whole.
When it comes to writing a review for a book of short stories published before I was born… it becomes maddening.
Each of the stories was well written, but lacked indulging in a stable outcome.
Harlan Ellsion left each story open for interpretation instead of filling your head with his own theology.
I respected each story as a vague idea of what a god or devil could be, live, become, or die from.
Each story is drastically different, and yet, the same in an awkward fashion.
A masterpiece of bleak, modern not-quite-horror.The Deathbird is a series of short stories that I damn near required all my friends and lovers to read.
They are bleak, bitter, angry ...
and fascinating.
Like a car wreck you can't help but rubberneck at as you drive past it, Deathbird left me a little weak in the knees and sometimes, a little sick to my stomach from the emotional wreckage of the characters-- and the window they opened into my own psyche.Read it alone, in a well-lit room.Wait and watch as the shadows slowly move.Then give a loved one a warm embrace.
Ignoring Ellison's caveat lector at the beginning on the book about "don't read this in a single sitting".
I read the book in a single sitting.
As such, I am not an emotionally "ok" person today, I'm slightly dead inside because this collection put me through one too many emotions, utterly confused me at times, and had me captivated by the wonderful prose to the point where my brain could not take it anymore.If I had to rate the stories individually, several would get 5 stars, some would get 2 or 3 or 4.
But as a whole, it's a wonderful collection.But dear future readers, heed the advice at the beginning, don't read it all in one go.
I do all right with short story collections on the Kindle, but part of that is because it’s harder to tell how many pages are left during those moments of despair; if I can’t tell how far I am from the end, I don’t get as discouraged by the bad entries.Unfortunately, I got Mr. Ellison’s book in paperback format, and was constantly reminded of just how much I had left to read.Deathbird Stories started out well enough with “The Whimper of Whipped Dogs,” a tale that begins with a gruesome scene where apartment residents watch a woman get stabbed to death in their courtyard.
He’s definitely unique, and I don’t think I’ve read anything that touches him.This is a compilation of short stories, whose theme seems to be “god” or “gods.” The death of gods, little gods, new gods, modern gods.
There’s a lot of random, which is interesting, but sometimes it feels like Ellison is babbling a wee bit too much.The Deathbird - The book started off with one of the best stories and it ends with the best story.
It’s one of the most random, interesting, and engrossing novellas I’ve ever read.
Deathbird Stories famously starts with a caveat: don't read it all in one sitting, Unca Harlan warns, because it's intense, it's upsetting, and it'll fuck you up.
Don't read them in a single sitting.It's actually not that they're creepy (though some are: "Shattered Like a Glass Goblin," yikes), and in general, they certainly deserve Ellison's title of "speculative fiction" moreso than any formulaic "scifi" hand-waving (which not all of Ellison's stories manage to avoid).
Its structure works, successfully, like nothing else I've read, and the content is...just so worth the read.Harlan Ellison, always one of my favourites, is my go-to author when I feel like raging at the world -- in a well-written way.
As a whole, the tales are too angry to be nihilistic, too morbid to be moralistic, and too relentlessly unpleasant to be "just for fun." But they are also too well-written to be overlooked.My favorites from this collection include "Pretty Maggie Moneyeyes," which has a good twist at the end; "Basilisk," about how public opinion is manipulated to serve the god of war, "The Whimper of Whipped Dogs," a creepy take on the source of urban anomie, and "The Deathbird," which I enjoyed mostly for its unusual narrative structure.
Deathbird Stories is a short story cycle surrounding the idea of gods new and old interacting with everyday America.
This beautiful and agressive style manages to keep even the less successful stories enjoyable.Like any story collection, the quality varies, but Ellison (or his publishing company) is smart enough to bookend it with the fantastic "The Whimper of Whipped Dogs" and "The Deathbird".
We get it, Harlan.But like I said, Ellison is a brilliant writer who may be the best I've read at channeling visceral emotions into his work, and this shines through in even the shakiest stories.
Far too often lately I find myself abandoning books.
I used to be able to name all five or so books I couldn't get through - back when I was 18.But now that I'm older my decisions about how I spend my time seem to carry more (undesired) weight.
It's now obvious that my life is no longer filled with endless summers and lazy nights, the perfect time to read through my roommate's entire collection of D&D novelizations or whatever.So when a book like this doesn't thrill me - or more accurately offends me in a fairly benign way with its sexist depictions and unnecessary violence and vulgarity, and pummels me with adjectives, and turns out to be maybe two dozen versions of the same basic tale - I feel like it's not only okay to give it up, it's practically required.
Some of the stories in this books left me with so much to think about, it was hard to read another one right after the other.
This made me take a lot longer to read the whole book, but I also think I was able to enjoy the stories a lot more since I had to pace out reading them over the course of the last month.
Some of my favorites in this book were 'O Ye of Little Faith', 'The Whimper of Whipped Dogs', 'Pretty Maggie Moneyeyes', and of course 'The Deathbird'.
"It is suggested that the reader not attempt to read this book at one sitting.
The emotional content of these stories, taken without break, may be extremely upsetting.
GO AT YOUR OWN RISK."-Harlan EllisonI'm only around halfway through, but these are some of the most deeply disturbing and enthralling short stories I've ever read.
Despite the warning to not read the whole collection in one sitting, I find myself compelled to keep pushing on, to take as much of it in as possible, to give in to being "extremely upset."
Published in 1975, the book opens with a 'caveat lector' warning us not to read the stories one after the other without a break as the emotional content 'may be extremely upsetting'.
No doubt some of the concepts dealt with were confronting at the time, now the writing style in the stories comes across as overwrought, preachy and full of telling, telling telling.
Not to mention the overt misogeny, and the lack in variation of tone: each story told in an all-consuming didactic 'Twilight Zone-style' voiceover that pounds at the poor reader again and again.
Caveat lector indeed.
Given this collection's reputation, I went into it with high expectations. I was deeply disappointed. With the exception of "The Whimper of Whipped Dogs", with which I was already familiar from its countless reprintings, I found the stories emotionally and intellectually uninvolving. Far too often I felt that a bombastic, overwrought style of writing was being used to disguise weakness of content.
Profane and unsettling, Deathbird Stories will stay with you long after it has collected dust on your bookshelf. Never apologetic, Harlan Ellison’s words resonate with passion and precision, taking the reader to a chaotic and godless view of who we are and where we will be. Deathbird Stories is the inkwell of our psyche; the altar of despair.
This guy's intellect is frightening. His stories are frightening. Inspirational because they are so real, impossible, and grotesque.
