https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/307791.The_City_of_Ember
Maybe 18 months ago, I came out of my office to find my 5 year old son laying in the hallway reading a book.He wasn't just flipping through a picture book, either.
* * *About a week ago, I went on a car trip with Oot, and we listened to this book together.
Two POV characters, one boy and one girl.
The boy gets angry sometimes, and his father talks to him about it, and the boy tries throughout the book to get a grip on his anger with varying success.
What's more, they both make mistakes.
And they're *obviously* mistakes.
Good book.
The City of Ember is a young adult novel that is a fantastic allegory for spiritual awakening, though I have no idea if it was intended as such.
Well, being a young adult novel it’s pretty predictable in that the box is in our hero’s closet, but a nice turn of events it is found by our hero’s baby sister who chews on it for a while before our hero gets her hands on it leaving the message is only partially legible.
What we think of as the whole universe is but shadow, and further, that to enter that “kingdom of heaven” you must be like a child.
Σε αυτό το βιβλίο γραμμένο με ξεχωριστή δεξιοτεχνία ξετυλίγεται το κουβάρι της ανθρώπινης εξέλιξης σε συνθήκες εξαιρετικά δύσκολες για την ύπαρξη και την συνέχιση του ανθρώπινου είδους.
Οι μικροί πρωταγωνιστές δίνουν πραγματικά μαθήματα αγάπης συμπόνιας ανθρωπιάς και αλληλεγγύης μπαίνοντας σε μια άνιση μάχη ανάμεσα στους ίδιους και την εγκληματική αμέλεια και διαφθορά των αρχών της υπόγειας πολιτείας.
Τι υπάρχει στην επιφάνεια της γης όπου θα πρέπει να γίνει το νέο σπιτι των προσφύγων από τα βαθιά και σκοτεινά έγκατα δεν το ξέρουμε τελειώνοντας το πρώτο μέρος.
Εύχομαι να πετύχουν το καλύτερο και να λυτρώσουν όλους τους συμπολίτες τους που αγνοούν ακόμη και την ύπαρξη του ηλίου.
DuPrau makes a typical first-time novelist mistake throughout this book: she doesn’t trust her reader to infer.
Another disappointment is that the mystery of Ember unfolds in an entirely predictable manner.
DuPrau's characterization of Doon is one dimensional.
The book’s strongest element was the setting, Ember.
Throughout reading the book, I could see the dark, amber lights and the anxious people throughout the city.
I hope DuPrau will learn from some of her mistakes and produce a stronger sequel—Ember is rich with possibilities for a greater story.
Okay, but excuse me...I THINK MY BOOK WAS MISSING THE FINALE?!?!
I really liked this story, I did, but I didn't love it.
But it honestly felt like it ended mid-thought.• I really wish there'd been more between Lina and Doon.
Then she was dribbling soup like she couldn't chew (??) but then she was scribbling confidently with a pencil, which a small baby wouldn't do.
The book really felt old.
It needed a bit of a BANG, maybe??Either way: ME LIKEE DYSTOPIANS AND TINNED FOOD.
And I love the premise and GAH I JUST NEED THE NEXT BOOK.
This books makes you appreciate even the smallest of things that you may take for granted. I look forward to seeing how the movie compares with the book!
Which, don’t get me wrong, is totally fine; inspiration comes in every shape and form, and if a great book/movie inspired HG author Suzanne Collins to write a great series, then more power to her and more fun to us readers.
Rather, it is more about discovery (both self- and world-), about not taking the truth that’s given to us unquestioningly and instead go and look for another one despite all the obstacles along the way.
So again, if you're looking for point-blank survival, full-frontal fights and gruesome deaths, you're not going to get it in this book.
My 12 year old son just knew I would love this book.
Finally, I have read it and Jacob (my son) was right.
Lina Mayfleet, twelve years old, sat "winding a strand of her long, dark hair around her finger, winding and unwinding it again and again." Doon Harrow, also twelve, "sat with his shoulder's hunched, his eyes aqueezed shut in concentration, and his hands clasped tightly together."So I'm busy marking up my paperback copy for examples to share with my own students when it becomes more than a coincidence - that I'm noticing the similarities between Ember, the city, and the Community in Lois Lowry's The Giver.
I especially loved the questioning, like Lina's friend Clary's "Where does life come from?
Doon and Lina had never thought of being twelve years old and getting jobs.
Luckily, Lina just so happened to be a super fast runner and that's why she thought messenger would be a perfect job for her.
Doon wasn't the kind of boy who loved sports and computer games, he would rather be a quiet gentleman who paid attention to his bug collection all day long, spending more time at the library than on the couch, so it wasn't normal for Doon to scream to others,"The city of Ember is not prospering,in fact everything is getting worse and worse by the minute!
Without any hint that the people of Ember were being controlled by radio waves, or drugs in their food, or hypno-dream-therapy, I find it completely unbelievable that every single one of them would have such a complete lack of curiosity or even just desperation at their existing circumstances that they don't even attempt to see, maybe, what kinds of fungus are edible, or experiment with any of the electrics while they were still in full supply to find out how they really worked.And that brings us to our heroes: the only two people in the history of Ember who seem to have both an understanding of the deterioration of their society AND the impetus to do something about it (besides marching ineffectually with placards in front of the mayor's house - another sign that the general population of Ember is pretty much standing around begging for someone else to save them).
HEY LOOK WHO FINALLY READ THIS.
xD Confession: I actually saw the movie first.
Anyways, I've been meaning to read this one for a while, and I'm super glad I finally stopped procrastinating it!
Although it maybe felt just a little creepy for an MG book?
The plot was really simplistic and kinda predictable (to be fair, this could just be because I've seen the movie)...
I wasn't expecting super complex characters.
I think the author overdid it a little...
she pretty much just layered her worldview on over the story.
But, I did enjoy this book for its plot and creative premise.
The story follows two children, Doon and Lina, who have completed their schooling and have been given new jobs.
Lina gets a job as a messenger and is able to run across the city, taking messages back and forth and discovering the full extend of the shortags to come.
Lina and Doon are soon on a path to being rebels and forced to flee into the darkness surrounding the City.A fascinating, compelling story that left me with a lot of questions and some good answers.
Since then, I've dabble a bit with the genre and discovered some gems: The Hunger Games series, Gaiman's The Graveyard Book, and Dan Wells' John Wayne Cleaver series.
The City of Ember was our book club pick precisely because some members wanted to add a YA read to our repertoire.
If I read this in my teens I would have been Ga-Ga Ape Shit over this book and possibly the entire series.
Nonetheless, compared to books of similar YA genres like The Hunger Games, this novel comes out a little tame.
Still, it is a good story and I would have no problems recommending it to a young teen audience.
(And a good explanation of the next book’s cover.) The author’s frank writing style still left room for poetry and I found myself experiencing the disorientation of (view spoiler)[using a boat and candles for the first time (hide spoiler)] and the wonder of (view spoiler)[seeing a brand new day be born (hide spoiler)]!
Doon also wonders where life comes from and knows it’s a power greater than the Builders.
Now of course, (view spoiler)[in the story Lina and Doon save the day and the Builders are nowhere to be seen (hide spoiler)] which is a great case for humanism, isn’t it?
As soon as he finished reading his library copy, he took his allowance money to buy the book so he can own it (I'm SOOOOO proud!).
I read this book along with him and I have to say it was pretty good!
It is the first of four books so it should keep readers busy for a while.#1:The City of Ember#2:The People of Sparks#3:The Prophet of Yonwood#4:The Diamond of DarkholdThe City of Ember: The Graphic Novel
You do whatever it takes to find that book and you read it with him.
Enthusiasm is contagious...and supporting a child's love for reading is priceless.Review to come...once I finish this strongly recommended book :)
I loved it! I remember seeing the film years ago and enjoying it so much. On a whim I decided to read the book and I was fascinated by it! What I savoured most of all was the mood and tone of the book. There's this feeling of doom, claustrophobia and being smothered that permeates everything and it made the book so exciting.The City of Ember, made by the Builders two and a half centuries ago, is slowly but surely declining. The supplies are running out and the generator powered by the river tha
I remember seeing the film years ago and enjoying it so much.
There's this feeling of doom, claustrophobia and being smothered that permeates everything and it made the book so exciting.The City of Ember, made by the Builders two and a half centuries ago, is slowly but surely declining.
The people feel trapped but have nowhere to go.
Two 12 year olds, Lina Mayfleet and Doon Harrow, find a clue left by the Builders and slowly unravel the mystery that may possibly lead to an escape from the dying city.Can't wait to read the rest of the books.
I wish I had read this book some time before.Lina and Doon are intelligent and curious, which makes the story interesting.The letter in the end of this book was thrilling to read.
I totally forgot that this book exist. It's been years since I've read this but I can still remember how I enjoyed this one so much. Might do a reread soon :)
Just as at the start of The Giver, the young people of the community of Ember receive their future work assignments, a device which quickly pulls the young reader into the story.
Now almost adults, Lina and Doon are able to view their community with fresh eyes, and discover that the generator, the source of electric power on which the town depends, is soon to be exhausted.
Even within their own hearts they struggle with conflicts of fear and pride, which might have hindered the saving of the city.
Solo verso la fine si scopre che la protagonista ha 12 anni. Yeeeeeeh. In effetti, è scritto un po' troppo semplicemente.
I really really love the idea of a post-disaster society of people living underground.
And I especially love the idea of reading about that society several generations in, where they no longer remember what daylight is, or why the city they live in is theren- or even where exactly their city is.
I like the idea of this society making up their own myths about 'the dark' and having new origin stories and singing songs amid candles lit against the ever-present night.
The setting of an underground sort of steampunk like society surviving post-collapse without any connections to their past is merely the place where this book begins.
A terrific book, simply and beautifully written. I like books that make it clear there is (or could be, or should be) a sequel in the works, but that don't drive the reader out of her mind by not answering any of the questions raised at the very beginning. (I'm sure it's not just YA books that often do this, but they're what I'm reading most lately.) Also, I was glad to see lots and lots of female characters of all ages, interests, and abilities -- and I don't think anyone's "accusing" this of being a "girl" book.
I read this with grade six. They enjoyed it more than I did. But it was still good.
I'm currently reading this book, I was at the library and just picked it up not really knowing what it was about.
Infact I have been late for school a few days because I stay up so late reading it.It's not a very large book.
But the story is incredible!From what i've read so far it is about a girl who lives in a strange city called Ember, where there is no such thing as the sun.
Then one day the main girl finds a strange letter that seems to have been written by the builders.
This was my first book to read on the Kindle.
This futuristic story about twelve year olds Doon and Lina was wonderful.
I felt just like the guy from Amazon hoped that I would while reading on the Kindle, that I would forget the medium and enjoy the story.
When I told my own children how much I enjoyed the story I heard, "Oh, yeah.
I read it last year." I wonder why I didn't pick it up then?
I've heard that book two is even better, so I'm looking forward to reading it soon, too.
My first dystopian novel. It has great character-building, interesting story, and also the concept of Ember itself is intriguing. Note; one star off for being slow at times that I find myself struggling to finish it.Would recommend to people who love a good YA dystopian novel without any insta-love thrown in.
She and her friend Doon must decipher the message before the lights go out on Ember forever!I suppose The City of Ember would be a good choice for children (9-13 years old) and if I was younger I would appreciate it much more.My main problem?
No, I don't mean the "two children are going to save the world the city" thing, because I'm quite used to this and I can overlook it, when the book is good.
The end was totally far-fetched - at first Lina's unbelievable stupidity (view spoiler)[when she forget to pass the letter and then the throw.
This book is honestly fairly meh. The action is slightly lukewarm; in fact, nothing much happens for ages. The characters are nothing special. Lila and Doon are both flat as can be. In general, the book is just fairly meh. That being said, there's something fairly entertaining about this book. It's got that sweet emotional realness of so many middle grade books. I wouldn't read this as an adult, but for middle grade readers, this is definitely a solid read.
There are some books which, when you read them, hold you in a spell with their unique charm and voice. This was one of those children's books, read at a time in which I devoured everything considered suitable reading. I've never read the sequels however as the way in which this book ended was left open to my imagination and to continue in such a way would ruin the magic of this novel. Recommended out of that nostalgic time known as childhood.
Been wanting to read this for a long time. I saved the movie in my DVR forever because I prefer to read the book first. Enjoyed it but it ends pretty open so I'll definitely need to continue with the series.
