https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/395058.The_Recognitions
To add to this, there are no quotation marks for dialogue - good luck figuring out who is talking.In response to one of my updates while reading this, someone posted an article about this book (I am too exhausted from this book right now to find the article and directly quote it, but if you Google "Why are large, painful books considered classics?" and you will find it.) The gist of it is that people tend to rate these books highly because they are rating their accomplishment of finishing a chunky tome and not necessarily the quality of said tome.
I am not sure why that is a good thing, but it was enough for it to become a staple on many "must read before you die" lists.Summary - I am glad this is over.
The father, Reverend Gwyon, had "the look of a man who was waiting for something which had happened long before", buries himself in old obscured religious writings...but "the book most often taken from its place was  Obras Completas de S Juan de la Cruz, a volume large enough to hold a bottle of schnapps in the cavity cut ruthlessly out of the  Dark Night of the Soul.Later he falls under Mithra's spell.Wyatt grows up warped by this upbringing.He becomes the man who seems to believe that, where there is God, do not stay; where there is no God run away as fast as you can.
He carried its themes in his head too, the ever watching eye of God and  The Seven Deadly Sins.The copy of this painting underscores one of the themes of The Recognitions, the theme of forgery, and it is asking: what is original?
Images surround us; cavorting broadcast in the minds of others, we wear the motley tailored by their bad digestions, the shame and failure, plague pandemics and private indecencies, unpaid bills, and animal ecstasies remembered in hospital beds, our worst deeds and best intentions will not stay still, scolding, mocking, or merely chattering they assail each other, shocked at recognition.  Shocked, surprised and mesmerized by these Recognitions. Sometimes reading of a book happens without any no
Images surround us; cavorting broadcast in the minds of others, we wear the motley tailored by their bad digestions, the shame and failure, plague pandemics and private indecencies, unpaid bills, and animal ecstasies remembered in hospital beds, our worst deeds and best intentions will not stay still, scolding, mocking, or merely chattering they assail each other, shocked at recognition.
Sometimes reading of a book happens without any noticeable event while other times, a single sentence affords the brilliance of a memorable experience.
I listened.There is nature- A customary meeting that takes place between sun and moon to greet a new dawn and dusk is an essential and my most favorite part of this book.
Well, Ulysses does require some work, but the difference is that Stephen Daedalus as well as the Blooms are fantastic deeply moving and well-drawn characters and we WANT to see them succeed.
As for comparing it to the next of post-moderns, I think that Pynchon tells a more interesting story, that DFW draws more interesting characters and McCarthy doesn't overload his novels with 1000s of irrelevant characters.The book is written as a triptych where, for me, the first part starts clean and becomes incoherent, the second part is incoherent and the 3rd parts starts coherent and makes a tiny bit of sense at the end.

I’ll admit to being on shaky ground here, as I’ve never met anyone who’s climbed Everest, nor am I likely to if I continue not going out of the house.)And there is, connected with this phenomenon, what I think of as Long Novel Stockholm syndrome.
When you combine this (admittedly self-imposed) captivity with a novel’s formidable reputation for greatness, you’ve got a perfect set of conditions for the literary Stockholm syndrome to kick in.In order for a very long novel to get away with long, cruel sessions of boredom-torture, it has to commit, every so often, an act of kindness such as the counterfeit cash set piece in The Recognitions.
And though it does take us on an interesting journey to another time and other places, very little is suggested for avoiding the ever-present trappings of a bullshit life.Most of the large cast of characters exist to be mocked by Gaddis via their own unsubtle dialogue, and while this provides a significant portion of the book's humor (which, unfortunately, can disappear for hundreds of pages at time), it gets tiresome.
And while this kind of thing can work in the right hands (Proust’s), Gaddis' writing talents, while impressive, aren't able to arouse and maintain the same level of interest in the characters and their petty lives.
The transatlantic voyage that many of the characters take in Part III dispels this fog for some, but thickens it for others, as the novel builds toward its tragic yet strangely triumphant conclusion.The Recognitions is remarkably dense and erudite; Gaddis has a striking way of intertwining historical, artistic, literary, theological and mythological arcana and symbolism with his descriptions, crafting multilayered allusions that resonate throughout the text and across centuries of human thought and creation.
Gaddis also makes reference to a great deal of early twentieth century popular American culture (songs and popular novels).
Part of this literature is the Clementine Recognitions (hence the title) and here is found the story of Faustus.
The story itself is fairly simple; Wyatt means to follow his father into the Christian ministry, but takes to art and forgery for a dealer called Recktall Brown.
The Recognitions is undoubtedly a great novel and it was fun and challenging to read.
I loved the trails that Gaddis leaves and following links and it is undoubtedly a literary masterpiece, worthy of its place in all the lists.
“Planetary” is a descriptor I come back to again and again while thinking about this book- it not only reflects the geographic scope of the novel, which unfolds across oceans and continents (though for the greater part we do not leave the microcosmic nocturama of New York City), but also the attempt to put a world’s sum of knowledge and history into one work, to recreate the world of accumulated human experience within this massive triptych’s unity.
There is Wyatt’s genius for imitation, which is accepted as original; Otto’s mediocre originality, which is seen as plagiarism (of Faulkner's The Sound and the Fury, of all things), and there is Stanley’s drive to create an original musical piece that encompasses everything: we see the disastrous effects of his ambition, and the paltry products of his success.
Gaddis realised that comparisons to other writers (Joyce and Faulkner, for example) would be inevitable, and by including these references in the book and writing with such clear self-awareness he both anticipates these criticisms and expands the The Recognitions into a kind of metafiction: an exploration of art and the artist in a way that manages to transcend the natural boundaries of the novel form.
So at a certain point I got a little lost, I started to feel like I felt when reading the first chapter of Ulysses when I had no idea what was going on, or even a point of reference to place the text in, unlike in Joyce though, when everything feels like it is all coming together in this book it begins to move towards entropy from about 2/3's of the book till the end.Reading the book at the time it came out must have been something though.
Look at that technique: the alliteration, the bounce of buried n's, the repetition of "evenly", the choice of "smoke-fall" and "adventuresome" and "indecorous" and "cold slop".
This story was about some people coming out of church, and they saw an anchor dangling by a rope from the sky.
The anchor caught in the tombstones, and then they watched and saw a man coming down the rope, to unhook it.
difficult compared to what?) books are loved solely in hindsight, that the euphoria felt at Everest's summit blinds us to the struggle of the climb.

Their reappearance, in their different guises, pulls one's attention into focus, as you being to realise —like scrutinising a painting up close— you could be missing the wider effect and to pay greater attention to the these amorphous characters.Echoes, motifs and repetition of statements, phrases and even dialog reinforce these multiple viewpoints and encourage one to scrutinise who is the originator of the thought and the theme and reiterates the question of authenticity.
And like Delillo, Gaddis draws out tremendously genuine and real subtleties, nuances and character traits which in turn depict the societal pressures that drive people to change their names, project their alter egos and wear their masks.
And all that stuff is good, even if a certain distance concerning the characters makes it a little difficult to really like any of them.
I don't mind a book that demands a second reading, but it should deliver at least some of the proverbial goods the first time around.But Gaddis is also profoundly and obviously misanthropic, and that makes it difficult to get involved with the story, since the story is basically at the expense of all the main characters.
Too bad no amount of cleverness can replace empathy.But there's no denying that The Recognitions now has a presence for me in a way that only Big Ambitious books can.
Una historia que explora un universo de temas: la fraudulencia, el suicidio, la religión, el arte, el dinero, el amor, la soledad, el espionaje, pero principalmente la incesante y arrolladora necesidad humana de encontrarle respuesta a la pregunta: ¿por qué seguimos viviendo?No voy a decir mucho más.
Solo voy a decir que, cuando hace unos meses me preguntaron: "Si tuvieses que vivir solo en una isla, ¿qué libro te llevarías?", estaba completamente seguro de cuál libro me traería conmigo.
The Recognitions—my favourite Gaddis, although he wrote several wonderful books—delves deeply into the theme amongst the most intriguing to me in a novel: exploration of the dichotomy between the increase in both man's material well-being and his spiritual anguish in this, the modern age of consumer capitalism and progressive democracy; an age in which even the sacred and the beautiful are debauched by being made to sell themselves in the ubiquitous marketplace.The principal characters in Gaddis' world are continually forced to make the choice between embracing searing, difficult truths or being seduced by the painless blandishments of an endless parade of fraudulence and forgeries—the latter aptly represented by the constant references to people enthusiastically endorsing Dale Carnegie's seminal mask-making handbook How to Win Friends and Influence People.
No, I cannot review this. Yes, it took some work. No, your library doesn't have it. Yes, you should read it. Have I answered all your questions? This book has impacted me in ways which I've only provisionally understood.
I want faces, lives, stories, truths, people being real, other people, places.
recognition, as though they were creating it themselves, as though it were being created through them while they look at it or listen to it and, it shouldn't be sinful to want to have created beauty?This is all I have ever wanted.Tell them, as the composer predicted, there's nothing left but knowledge and evidence, and art's become a sort of tailbone surviving in us from that good prehensile tail we held on with then.No, people die.
I know about trying to live life and trying to find ways that makes it not so hard.
There are so many good reviews of this on Goodreads already that I'm not sure if I can come up with something interesting or at least original.
—No. I'm just reviewing it, said the taller one, hunching back inhis green wool shirt .—A lousy twenty-five bucks.
Christ, I could have given it to you, all I need is the jacket blurb to write the review.==========================================FIRST ATTEMPT (14 July 2011):This is one monolithic book, and I admit a lot of it has gone over my head.
Revisit later when I have more time, and then I can assign a review and a star rating.
This novel concerns the discoveries, both major and minor, of what is authentic in life: The Recognitions is enlightening, almost beatific, in the way in which it focuses upon the shortcomings and moral lapses of humans in pursuit of true art.
It's no wonder that The Recognitions went unrecognized for so tragically long -- Gaddis is, without doubt, one of the top half-dozen of American literary novelists of the 20th century ranking with Bellow, Barth, Vonnegut, Hemingway and Faulkner.
The writing is work by a fellow of verifiable genius: I strongly recommend that you to discover Gaddis -- he will enrich your life and help you better understand the nature of the personal epiphanies that give meaning to life.
After much deliberation, I've settled on 4 stars if only for the simple reason that among the "must-read, difficult, long novels" that this book is usually grouped with, I enjoyed it much more than Ulysses (which I gave 3 stars), yet not quite as much as Infinite Jest (which I gave 5 stars).
(Ed Feasly, I'm thinking of you first and foremost!) However, even after listening to the audio I would routinely go back to the book and reread scenes to make sure that what I remember I heard was correct, or for the simple fact that the scene was hilarious and I wanted to reread it.
We live in Rome, he says, turning his face to the room again,-Caligula's Rome, with a new circus of vulgar bestialized suffering in the newspapers every morning.
The masses, the fetid masses, he says, bringing all his weight to his feet.-How can they even suspect a self who can do more, when they live under absolutely no obligation.
The Recognitions is an uncharted continent.
I am weary and dehydrated and manipulating my favorite images from The Recognitions like some layman chancing upon talismans.
It is unjust to compare, though I transgress: I liked Ulysses far more, found such poetic, whereas -- despite the marvel Gaddis engenders -- I feel dirty and bleak.
Seems like an easy way to end plotlines to me.Regarding the style, another reviewer pointed out that a character in a George Eliot novel always writes “commenced” instead of “began”.
Gaddis' attacks feel often misguided, evil-minded, and so caricatural that they come off as artificial (all atheists are science worshippers), stemming more from Gaddis' personal problems than from reality.To me, The Recognitions, as much as I wanted to like it (especially after that glorious first chapter) is not the scandalously overlooked masterpiece it is hailed as, but an ambitious work by a gifted author who paradoxically seems already full of bitterness from not having had the recognition (no pun intended) he might have deserved, before having actually published the book.
Given that The Recognitions ends on Easter Sunday, this would seem to be the perfect day to review a book which is suffused with references to the bible and to manifestations of religious impulses, delusions and repudiations.
So much of what is possible in a novel is given real, expansive form here and while it may be necessary, sometimes, to read a paragraph twice to untangle its meaning, I always found a basic, underlying coherence in everything Gaddis wrote.
Sometimes I just don't want to finish a book.This thing sat on my shelf for almost 20 years before I read it.
I read somewhere that Harold Bloom called the book uncanny, how strange things happen around it, and then he went on to tell how a copy of it mysteriously ended up in his briefcase.
I had a couple uncanny things happen while I was reading it too.
The day after I told her this a character was introduced in the book whose distinguishing characteristic was that he wore an alarm clock around his neck.
This is an incredibly confusing book and to be honest, the annotations didn't actually enlighten me.
I feel like this is a book that would be impossible to get the most out of without repeated readings.
It was crazy confusing.I listened to the audio, which was one of the most amazing audios I've listened to.
The guy had to narrate 50+ voices and it rarely got confusing.
Not only that but when you look at the book it's actually very difficult to figure out who is talking.
I can't even imagine the notes and concentration and knowledge that had to have gone into his narration.
Wyatt, having lost his mother at a young age and grown up under the tutelage of a puritanical aunt and a rather erudite (there's that word again) but uninvolved and perhaps mad father, possesses the talent of a great artistic craftsman, able to copy and mimic the masters, but unable to create a work of his own.
Otto - Esther's friend, talks with her about Wyatt, is writing a play in which he is named Gordon, has affair with Esther, goes to a banana plantation, when he comes back he pretends to have been injured in a revolution21.
Herschel - Maude's handsome gay friend, says that Wyatt is involved in a counterfeiting ring and that Esther is pregnant, ghostwriter for politicians, punches Hannah at the Village party29.
It is narrated by Nick Sullivan and he made the parts of dialog much more understandable but I'm also really glad I had the book because I ended up either reading along with or re reading most of what I listened to.
Other books that I have read that come to mind as similar to this are Infinite Jest, Ulysses, and Against the Day. I'm thankful for my friends that I read this with.
My friend Sarah said we need to sit in a pub and talk this over she is so right!
