https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/337517.Things_Hidden_Since_the_Foundation_of_the_World
Le cose così come non sono“Le vittime ci sono sempre e ci sono sempre delle armi che ciascuno affila contro il vicino in uno sforzo disperato per procurarsi da qualche parte, fosse pure in un avvenire utopico indeterminato, una zona d'innocenza da abitare da solo o in compagnia di un'umanità rigenerata”.Muovendo dall'etnologia all'antropologia culturale, dalla filosofia delle religioni alla psicologia interindividuale, Girard riconosce nelle Scritture il testo da analizzare per cercarvi una rivelazione profonda, una verità inestimabile: la natura intimamente violenta della genesi umana, la radice vittimaria ed espiatoria nella fondazione culturale della società.
As a religious person, a monk as it happens, and a yearner for peace, I have been perplexed by the intertwining of violence with religion, which supposedly preaches peace, and especially perplexed by the violence within Christianity itself in contradiction to Jesus' teaching in the Gospels.
It is Girard who has pointed the way to how violence happens in religious contexts and where religions resources are to reverse violent trends.
For my own reflections on Girard & Christian spirituality as well as some interesting fantasy literature for readers young & old see http://bit.ly/Tqbeqw
Girard sees the Gospel texts of the New Testament as a revolutionary exposing of this basic mechanism.
At the end of the book Girard suggests we suffer most basically from a lack of meaning.
I can only approach texts and institutions, and relating them to one another seems to me to throw light in every direction..
. .Present-day thought is leading us in the direction of the valley of death, and it is cataloguing the bones one by one.
All of us are in this valley but it is up to us to resuscitate meaning by relating all the [Judeo-Christian] texts to one another without exception, rather than stopping at just a few of them.
had my mind blown several time while reading tbh; the first two parts about anthropology, myth and the judeo-christian texts are easily 5/5 stuff and I had a blast reading them, unfortunately the last part dealing with psychoanalysis, esp. Freud, wasn't as engaging for me personally, mainly because it's not rly my area of interest and I simply know to little about it -- still, all in all highly recommended
Exceptional. Girard's thoughts will change your life. You must read this book.
When we think about who we consider the most influential thinkers in continental philosophy (and of adjacent fields such as psychology and sociology), those that come to mind from the past few centuries include the likes of Hegel, Nietzsche, Marx, and Freud.
Each of them proposed monolithic theories of human history, motivation, conflict, values, and behaviors; for Hegel it was the teleology of the world spirit, Nietzsche the will to power, Marx the class struggle, and Freud his psychoanalysis.
Building upon the work of those before him, Girard argues that all of human culture, behavior, and conflict can be explained by a single mechanism – mimetic desire and the scapegoat mechanism.
In this text, Girard and his interlocutors range widely in their discussion of mimetic behavior and the way in which it takes shape within human culture.
The modern 'mimetic crisis' seems too crudely put, derived from a too narrow consideration of the contemporary world.
With all that said, Things Hidden Since the Foundation of the World demonstrates how essential an account of mimetic behavior is to understanding human culture.
If I do not entirely accept that Girard provides us with as many answers as he and his interlocutors suggest, I do accept that he provides one of the most powerful articulations of the questions and challenges for which we need to find answers.The dialogue format employed here is very effective, unfolding clarification after clarification.
"Il modo migliore di castigare gli uomini è di dargli sempre quello che reclamano." (p. 354)
I found this life-changing, and still don't understand why more people are not studying Girard closely.
though decidedly a work of christian apologetics, some interesting anthropological observations.
The concept of mimesis is posed as a relational configuration by which humans interact and propagate social meaning and structure.
He flips the idea of sacrifice on its head and instead notes how mimesis is really about the social management of feelings.
Instead of concerning ourselves with the group/hierarchy as the main focus of mimesis we can instead get that each individual has a placement of emotions within their cognition and that placement is how we understand ourselves and those around us.
The behaviors of others reinforce our emotional selves so that we become shaped by our standard assortment of feelings.
which is merely the expressive window dressing of human emotional well-being.
Sarebbe da consigliare come summa del pensiero girardiano, se non fosse che la struttura dialogica rende quest’opera non perfettamente accessibile. Per altro le dona anche un grande potere fascinatorio. In ogni caso, vi si può trovare tutta la teoria girardiana nella sua struttura essenziale – dal desiderio mimetico alla crisi violenta in cui questo fa affondare la società alla risoluzione violenta della crisi mediante il linciaggio del capro espiatorio alla fondazione per questa via della cultura – e nelle sue varie applicazioni.
I appreciate Girard's main theory of mimetic rivalry and how it functions within religious development. But his notion about the place of that theory as THE KEY to unlocking pretty much everything unnecessarily dismisses other good theories. I wish he could have simply offered his theory without needing it to be received in such a fashion. It would make it more palatable and more effective in the long run.
Peter Thiel's favourite book.
This book is one of the most interesting philosophical works I have read in a while.
René Girard, along with Jean-Michael Oughourlian and Guy Lefort, address a number of facets of human society and culture.The authors investigate the victimage mechanism, acquisitive mimesis, and mimetic rivalry through the exploration of religion, myth, and literature.
Whether it be the myth of Romulus and Remus, the Bible, or Proust, the book carries a careful discussion of what is being shown in those works.
All in all, Things Hidden Since the Foundation of the World is an engaging read.
I don't take back what I said before about the fact that Girard thinks like Darwin thought.
I'm still troubled by all the times Girard has to say "this has been hidden but now I'm revealing it to you" -- but the fact is that if you go back to the texts, there it is.
This is an illuminating way to read the texts before you.
This book isn't tailored to my interests -- I'd prefer more on human origins and less on Freud -- but Girard is one of those thinkers who will be haunting my thoughts for a very long time.
This is not an easy text to wrap your head around. I’m starting to understand Girard, but still not entirely. This is the best explanation of his views on Judeo-Christian thought so far. But I started to lose it a bit when he starts getting heavy into his critiques of psychoanalysis.
essential philosophy
Donc, il faut reconnaitre cette structure sacrificielle dans tous les mythes, également dans ceux où il n’a pas de la violence.
Avant le sacrifice, on répond à la violence par autre violence.Ensuite, Girard dit que toutes les religions cachent cette structure, sauf la chrétienne.
L’Ancien Testament montre que la victime est toujours innocente, mais le texte vraiment révolutionnaire est le Nouveau Testament : ici, Jésus dit qu’il faut aimer l’autre comme on aime soi-même.
Mais la leçon de Jésus est claire : il faut tendre l’autre joue face à la violence, donc chaque vengeance ne sera plus possible.
Mais d’un génie que méconnaisse la Révélation divine.Girard veut transformer la Bible dans un témoin de sa théorie du désir mimétique.
de Carvalho ne parle avec la prétension à l’authorité du Vatican.En somme, Girard veut que la Bible ne parle pas du sacrifice rédempteur, propitiatoire de Jésus, l’Oint de Dieu ; mais qu’il soit tout simplement la révélation par Dieu du piège du désir mimétique.
Si c’était vrai, ce serait une proposition entre autres mille pour la rédémption de l’humanité par moien des œuvres ; si c’est faux, il travail à détourner les gens de la vraie voie du salut.Peter Leithart récommende _On Sacrifice_ de Moshe Halbertal pour contradire Girard.
This is the kind of book that both confirms ideas that you have long suspected, and breaks open new worlds of ideas yet to ponder.
He raises serious and well considered questions as to how we think about our faith, and ultimately affirms -albeit with new tenets - the faith he has claimed.Girard seems to go astray in the last section of the book where he takes on psychology, with generous dollops of Freud, Dostoyevsky, and Proust.
The result is a book that is two thirds ground breaking, and one third forgettable.I will return again and again to his writings on sacrificial thought in the middle section; I'll likely leave the last to gather dust.
While I think that Girard's critics make some fair points--not all of which he seems able to answer, at least in this book--it is one of the most paradigm-altering books I have ever read. Even when I strongly disagreed with the feasibility of Girard's Scriptural interpretation or thought he was carrying the case for his point of view a bit too far, I felt like he was opening my eyes to important themes that I would never have considered on my own. I do not in any way regret reading this book.
Like a solid left hook you don't see coming, this book has some profound conclusions about essential human nature that make innocent delight in momentary pleasures a decidedly more difficult undertaking. If you're cool with that, then it's well worth your time. Caveat lector.
Girard's great work. Puts forward his fundamental anthropology. Dialogues with the Hebrew Bible and the Christian scriptures and these dialogues are very helpful. His dialogue with Freud I found difficult to follow due to my lack of familiarity. I Highly recommend this book.
Wow what a book !!! René Girard's hypothesis makes so much sense, it really completely changed my point of view according that book called 'The Bible'.I found a path and i opened a door that led me to an insight i was looking for since so long time ago and this is all thanks to this fabulous book.
I could say that this book taught me to think, but it is more accurate to say that it set my mind free to think. Girard's thought was a life changing event for me.
Obtrusively written, but with provocative ideas. It's also an apology for Christianity and non-violence.
