https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6479550-magic-bleeds
Warning The following review contains numerous crazy gifs and incoherent fangirling.Proceed with caution.   “We had a fight,screamed at each other for a while,I kicked him in the head,and then he stayed the night.”  I honestly tried to be calm.You know,cool,not overly excited.After all,they're just fictional characters.My ship has sailed,what's the big deal,right?I'm cool.So cool.MY SHIP HAS SAILED I DESERVE TO SCREAM AND SQUEAL AND DANCE AND HYPERVENTILATE AND FAINT AND ACT LIKE A CHILD THAT JU
After 3 books,one would expect that Ilona Andrews would have trouble writing a compelling and fresh storyline,but that's far from the truth!Magic Bleeds combines action,mystery and romance wrapped up with sarcasm and clever humor and makes falling in love with the story and the characters inevitable!Reading the adventures of Kate Daniels and her furry friends is effortless and utterly enjoyable!I was once again sucked in a complex world full of magic and blood and I still crave more,more battles,more secrets,more sassiness,more ass-kicking,more Curran,more everything!
⚔  The Grand IAA™ KD Buddy Rerererereread Extravaganza  (GIAAKDBRE™), aka the yellow brick road to Magic Triumphs ⚔Presenting Episode 4, or How Kate Daniels Learned Being Naught but a Little Squirrel Doesn't Mean You Can't Beat the Fish Out of the Deliciously Villainous Villains.➽  And the moral of this rererererererereread³ is :Also, if you see golden headlights coming right at you while you're playing with your deadly toothpick, beware. Especially if there are rollling tumble weeds around. [Ju
(GIAAKDBRE™), aka the yellow brick road to Magic Triumphs ⚔Presenting Episode 4, or How Kate Daniels Learned Being Naught but a Little Squirrel Doesn't Mean You Can't Beat the Fish Out of the Deliciously Villainous Villains.➽ 
It would be glorious.➽ Ilona, Gordon, Glen:The End (view spoiler)[until next time (hide spoiler)][Original review]☆☆☆ Post-Shift Productions proudly present ☆☆☆Yet Another Exciting Day in the Life of Kate Daniels►8.00 a.m.: investigate the death of a human barnacle.
Find a guy pinned to the elevator shaft by a spear through his throat.
Read The Princess Bride to a big sleeping cat.► 8.30 p.m.: attend a lovely family reunion at the Keep.
Found footage of Curran keeping his alphas in line:
Reread 7/2018  4.5 stars!   “I can't give you the white picket fence, and if I did, you'd set it on fire.”   I'm a giant fan of urban fantasy. I read all kinds of genres of books, but when I read urban fantasy I get a feeling of being at home. The Ilona Andrews writing team created a universe where when I'm having a bad day or want to have a good time, I can open a paperback, and escape there effortlessly and happily. And that's exactly what I did with this book. I recently had some crap come u
Yes, the Kate and Curran relationship finally comes to a explosive collision in this book and it was all it was cracked up to be.
I worry we won't ever get a chance and it's driving me out of my skull."   This was also the book where I finally stopped skimming when it came to the plot.
That didn't really happen in this book.
(view spoiler)[ When they finally got to flip it and Kate took care of Curran when he was injured?
I already chose my mate and glued her ass to the chair to make sure she knew it.”  Follow me on ♥ Facebook ♥ Blog ♥ Instagram ♥ Twitter ♥["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>
9/30/17 - ON SALE for $2.99: http://amzn.to/2xLJQ5tGeez, friggin', Louise . . . Just in case you've somehow missed my enthusiasm for Kate #3, MAGIC STRIKES, I'll say (at least) one more time that it is my favorite installment in a UF series ever. And it is. But MAGIC BLEEDS gets 5 stars too. It's maybe my second favorite installment in a Urban Fantasy series ever. It's been too long since I've read BITTEN by Kelley Armstrong (best first installment in an UF series ever), to say for sure . . . bu
Just in case you've somehow missed my enthusiasm for Kate #3, MAGIC STRIKES, I'll say (at least) one more time that it is my favorite installment in a UF series ever.
but it's a close thing, either way.And I love MAGIC STRIKES and MAGIC BLEEDS for similar, yet very different reasons.One of my favorite (and simultaneously least favorite) things about blogging is that it's made me think about why I like or dislike something in a book.
In book 3, the Bad Guys were Roland's flunkies.In MAGIC BLEEDS .
(hide spoiler)]Seriously fantastic villain and history lesson aside, there are a multitude of other reasons to love this book.
Someone with a very long relationship (think centuries, even millennia) with Kate's magical father has Kate, the Pack, and Atlanta generally in their sights.Meanwhile, after things had started looking up for Kate's budding relationship with Curran, the Beast Lord (aka shapeshifter leader) at the end of book #3, it all comes crashing down at the beginning of this one: Curran doesn't show up for an EXTREMELY significant dinner for two, with no explanation, and Kate gets blown off when she calls the Keep (the shapeshifter's Atlanta compound) to check on him.
First reread January 2015Original rating: 5New rating: 8☆☆☆ Post-Shift Productions proudly present ☆☆☆Yet Another Exciting Day in the Life of Kate Daniels►8.00 a.m.: investigate the death of a human barnacle.
Feel like punching His Furiness in the face.
Find a guy pinned to the elevator shaft by a spear through his throat.
Read The Princess Bride to a big sleeping cat.► 8.30 p.m.: attend a lovely family reunion at the Keep.
The Kate/Curran love story does take precedence over the action in this instalment, which apparently disappointed some readers.
(view spoiler)[Kate shutting Curran out of the slut hut!
Curran gluing Kate's butt to her chair!
This book is currently on sale 9/30/17 $1.99Yes I'm reading the Kate Daniels Series AGAIN and guess what I love it a little more every time.
Kate/Curran and Saiman have all the best parts in this.Buddy Read/Reread June 8 with the gang at Ilona Andrews Addicts (IAA)Re-read...YAY I'm finally to my favorite book in the series for my re-read before Magic BreaksReview after Re-read 7/15/14
The character I most enjoyed this book beside the new addition of the attack poodle and Kate and Curran or course was Aunt B.
Like the end of other books in this series it really just made me want more.
TRIGGER WARNING : This review may make your eyes bleedremember me why is he a overprotective assbecause it's who he isi mean DUH*DUH FACE*oh okay i mean okay i suppose why notwhy drama tell me why dramahey i kinda liked the catnipOMFG ME TOO!!!!!!!!!!!!i mean talking is great toobut i guess catnip is okayoh you fightoh you have sex nowokayi mean that's not how I roll but okay i guessoh you "empty yourself"nicenotwhateverso there's this bitch who wants to kill y'allyeah i wrote y'all yeah i'm french don't see the problem now let me talk okay?anyway so let's fight!!!!
Reread.Atlanta got a visit from Kate's relative and all hell break loose. Shapeshifters going mad to town on the verge of epidemic, add Kate's dark mood over Curran standing her up for the dinner to the mix; it was a rollercoaster ride. So many moments where I laughed out loud, and bit my nails (specially those final battle scenes). An enjoyable read.
Buddy read with Armina, Eilonwy, Asya, and Monty Cupcake.Kate Daniels, an expert swordswoman works for the Order of Knights - an organization which solves magic problems.
Dear girls, please do it; you will have plenty of time to get pissed off later if the guy turned out to be a jerk and just did not feel like going outside.
It took Kate exactly half of the book (I counted) to resolve this problem - by simply talking to Curran.
*** 5 ***The Great Kate Daniels Buddy Read/Reread of 2017 with the gang at Ilona Andrews Addicts (IAA)! "...“You slept with Curran and you didn’t tell me? I’m your best friend.”“It didn’t come up.”“How disappointing for you.”Ha-ha. “That’s not what I meant.” ..." Well, how can anyone give this emotional and action steamroller less than five stars??? If you are a fan of the series and give this book anything else, than you must be missing something vital... To the rest of us, this book is known a
All of it happening while a very virulent forms of plagues bringing creature is unleashed on the city, together with something that scares the minds out of people and shifters alike, as well as weird undead attacking all the major clans, creeds and organizations, freaking the population as a whole out.
I wanted to scream at some of the clan Alphas, since all of them are constantly in-fighting for power and position, making Kate's future as the Beast Lord's mate a position full of danger and some ass kissing too, which I am sure she feels much less comfortable with than the power challenges.
What's interesting, now that I think about it, is that my emotions ran parallel to what Kate was feeling at the time, which I have to say is a pretty outstanding feat for an author.
Of course, Curran has a reason for not showing up for dinner, but there isn't a way for him to explain because she won't talk to him.
And like I said, I was pissed off (mostly at Curran) because I agreed with Kate, but the end really fixed everything.
Also, it's plain to see that the authors are really setting up things for the long haul and that's not something I'm disappointed by.
Good kitty.Original review from Feb, 2015:Crazy Aunts - we've all got one.
But, Kate's aunt is literally a psychopath:
Not exactly Auntie Em.But, one of the best parts of this book, to me, was the addition of Kate's new dog - the attack poodle.
I have three dogs, two of them are very large labs, and the things Kate says about her attack poodle cracked me up so much because I could, unfortunately, relate.
Apparently "stay" in faithful canine companion language meant "follow with enthusiastic glee."...I opened the door and saw a huge slimy pile of dog puke cooling in the middle of my hallway carpet.
Kate tells the story to a golem to emphasize the power of the blood that runs in her veins.2.
Kate shows an old picture of her to Andrea.
Unfortunately Kate has no memories and no recollection of her mother and her step father being together.3.
Her aunt talks about her old goldfishes, about the loved ones who come and go through the centuries.
Kate will not hesitate to help Andrea at any cost and any time.
She is afraid that her psychopath aunt will try to hurt Julie in order to hurt Kate.3.
Maybe it is time for Kate to say her goodbyes and move on.
"You know you've read a good book when you turn the last page and feel a little as if you have lost a friend."— Paul SweeneyNow I have no idea who Paul Sweeney is.
I'm an illiterate, poorly educated plebeian - I admit it.I also ask the many Kate Daniels fans on my friends list to forgive me.
I made you think, in my first review, that I wasn't really digging this series.I was wrong.
So very, very wrong.I loved this series.
I love this world that Andrews has created and the writing with which she has crafted it.-Signed,The New Kate Daniels Fan Girl
Let's take a moment to review the things I love in this life. *My husband and kids  *Diet Coke  *French Fries *And an awesome little book, called Magic Bleeds. I really didn't think the Kate Daniels series could actually get any better after Magic Strikes. But as good as that one was, this one was better.As the book begins, Kate is preparing for that naked dinner she promised Curran. But he doesn't show. She calls The Keep and gets the brush off. And hours later, she decides she's been played fo
*And an awesome little book, called Magic Bleeds.
I really didn't think the Kate Daniels series could actually get any better after Magic Strikes.
But as good as that one was, this one was better.As the book begins, Kate is preparing for that naked dinner she promised Curran.
Which throws her plan to avoid Curran out of the window.It's clear these two are crazy about each other, but there's a lot working against them...
I can't say enough about how good this book was.
It puts the first two books in this series to shame as well.
And I really had to stop thinking about him, because it hurt.When you don't know what's really happening, don't you just want to kill Curran??
How could he do that to poor Kate??Curran likes to play.
He wants Kate, but he's not eager to sacrifice anything.
"Besides, if Curran didn't think you're fit, he wouldn't have made the offer.
This part, and oh so many others, make me think that the only reason Curran wants Kate is so she can help him protect his damn Pack.
Have you guys noticed the age difference between Julie and Derek is 6 years, same as in Kate/Curran?
"Just wait until he figures out I shut him out of his slut hut."You know in my review of Magic Strikes when I said that Kate and Curran are frustratingly cute?
•If Kate and Curran were frustratingly cute before, now they are excruciatingly adorable.
I just asked my parents for a Curran all mine and they said they'll begin to save some money.
Just gift me a Curran.
Curran.
Curran.
(I can't believe I'm Lolitaing him...
and I can't believe I used Lolita as a verb.)Ok, ok, I'll stop now.
Ilona Andrews is doing a superb job of ratcheting up the suspense in the lead up to what we all know has to come eventually for Kate; the thing she's been training her whole life for.Though I didn't get the payout I wanted at the beginning of Magic Bleeds, I definitely got satisfaction.
These books just get better on re-reads, and I love going back to visit with all of the beloved characters.20 July 2014: $1.99 on KindleThis is my favorite series ever!!!
One of my favorite in the series!If you got to the 4th book then there is no need for me to tell you to read this. If you haven't read any of Kate Daniels' books and you like Urban Fantasy than what are you waiting for?What I liked about this particular novel was that we finally meet a member of the Kate's family. I kind of liked her aunt even if she was supposed to be the villain. There were some power games between Curran and Kate, some entertaining, some annoying.
Re-read! Rating still stands! “I can't give you the white picket fence, and if I did, you'd set it on fire.” What can I say? AnotheramazinginstallmentintheKateDanielsseries!!!Kate Daniels, mercenary and psuedo Knight of the order gets to meet a long lost family member. It should've been a happy family reunion but this is Kate Daniels we're talking about and to say that her family is just dysfunctional is an UNDERSTATEMENT!The stakes just keeps getting higher and Kate is confronting bigger and mo
She's still Kate but with each and every book, we get to see her make tough decisions.
There's a really powerful scene in this book where we see Kate struggle with a decision between doing what she was taught to do and doing what was right.
I'm firmly in the "heroines can fall in love and still be a badass because we can do whatever the fuck we want" camp.
And Kate does what she wants.
And I can totally get behind that because while Curran might be overbearing at times, he is learning and making comprises with Kate.
I've never read 4 straight books in a series before.
Reread: I think it's safe to say I enjoyed this more the second time around. Apparently I never reviewed this......Obviously that ship has sailed.I remember snippets of events that happened but reading these books one after the other has kinda made a cluster frickity frack of a mess in my head. I can't seem to pinpoint in which particular book certain things happened....Oh well, at least we know I didn't hate it...right? Pre-reviewReview to come ^_^..but as you know, this means a short rambling. For some odd reason Urban Fantasy doesn't inspire me review-wise.
Magic Bleeds is essentially the turning point, the pivotal book in the Kate Daniels Series.
{Speaking of Kate and Curran of course} Ilona and Gordon crafted a well written, strong plot, with a very prominent relationship storyline.
Kate is one of my favorite heroines of all the book series I have read to date, and that is quite a few, especially in this genre of Urban Fantasy and Paranormal Fantasy/Romance.
Despite Kate feeling like she will never have the kind of love she desperately wants, she can't help but be hurt at Curran's no show for their dinner.
Kate has to either defeat her aunt and risk exposing to the world her heritage or fly the city and let her friends stand alone.This book like any other had it's good and it's bad moments.
Once or twice you couldn't stop grinning like an idiot several pages at a time.2) Kate continues to be one of the best heroines I've come across.
At some point I wanted to slap Andrea, I generally like her but she kind of let me down in this book.
"You're a control freak and I fight all authority. And you want us to mate?""Many, many times.""What's wrong with you? Did I hit you too hard on the head?"I think I said it best the first time. So why try to mess with a good thing."We don't live in a safe world. I can't give you the white picket fence, and if I did, you'd set it on fire.""Only if I ran out of kindling."
Book 4 and I'm still loving this series. I'm trying to pace myself because I know there are only 8 in this series (for now) and I enjoy the complex world and the characters that Andrews has created. Humor and magic and action and romance are all blended together seamlessly. The best part: (view spoiler)[Finally Curran and Kate get together - woo hoo!!! Although the beginning was frustrating! (hide spoiler)].
Where book three kicked up the storyline a notch, this book kicked the storyline up ten stories. This was an awesome entry to the series -- a series which is quickly working its way up into my top favorite series list!
While the covers never cease being hideous, each installment in the Kate Daniels series hasn't ceased to entertain me thus far.
I think Kate likes Curran because he's one of the few people who could take her in a fight.
At times, Curran and Kate collide like fire and kerosene - but they truly fit together like two matching jigsaw pieces.And do I smell a potential spin-off series in the oven?
Here's my reasoning: In Magic Strikes we find out through a conversation that Kate was nine when Curran was fifteen and made Lord of all Beasts.
This, of course, tells us that Curran is six years older than Kate.
Also, it was just damn funny to watch you crash through the brush like your little ass was on fire.
Book 4 is the one where they finally...Is it a spoiler if I say it out loud?*bites nails*Hmm. I'm not sure, to be quite honest.
What about Julie?!I'm using too many exclamation points, aren't I?I'm not sure how to describe how into these books I am right now.
Stop.In fact, I've already checked out the next book from my library.Oh!
No one could resist that!I haven't found any UF series that I liked as much a my beloved Mercy Thompson, but Kate Daniels is a very close second, at this point.
