https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/34430839-gwendy-s-button-box
I listened to the audio version of this book through the library Overdrive but I'm going to buy a copy from Audible.
I loved that there was a little talk with Stephen King and Richard Chizmar at the end.
I also have to say how much I love the cover of the book.
It's just a story of Gwendy and how she comes across the button box that she owns for a good portion of her life.
I just fell in love with the story.
I fell in love with Gwendy's character.
And I hated one ole jerk in the book.
When she’s within a few feet of it, the image of a wild animal asleep in its lair flashes in her head, and she thinks: The button box doesn’t just give power; it is power.‘But I won’t,’ she mutters.
He is, after all, reading a book called Gravity’s Rainbow, which frankly sounds like something a perv would read.
Castle Rock has provided the setting for many King books over the years and is a home away from home for many of his dedicated fans.

Click here to watch a video review of this book on my channel, From Beginning to Bookend.Gwendy Peterson lives in Castle Rock, Maine.
The man in black produces a canvas bag and reveals a button box.
Gwendy is drawn to the button box and gleefully accepts it, unaware of the power it holds.
On a bench in the shade, close to the gravel path leading from the stairs into the Castle View Recreational Park, sits a man in black jeans, a black coat like for a suit, and a white shirt unbuttoned at the top.
Engaging reading!  THE WEIGHT OF A BOX Gwendy Peterson is a normal teenager in the (not-so normal) Castle Rock town, she is looking to lose some weight (mainly due the meanness of fellow schoolmates), and to do that she has been running on the “Suicide Stairs”, one of the colorful places in the town, until one day, when she reached the high point of the stairs, she meets a strange man with a black hat which knows too much about Gwendy’s personal life and he gives her a gift, a powerful and enig
Engaging reading!
THE WEIGHT OF A BOX
Gwendy's Button Box is a coming of age tale.
Gwendy Peterson goes from middle school to high school with a monkey on her back in the shape of a box studded with eight buttons and two levers.In some ways, the story reminded me of that Richard Matheson Twilight Zone episode that later became the movie The Box. Giving Gwendy the button box sounds like a fantastic act of destructive mischief on behalf of King's go-to bad guy.
3.5 out of 5.Later: I found a PDF of Button, Button, the Richard Matheson short story/Twilight Zone episode this reminded me of:https://www.greensburgsalem.org/cms/l...
King is back!
A story of choices and mystery.
Would you choose to be merciful or would you let your inner demons make you the ultimate destroyer?Whatever you decide, if you like a good thriller (and, perhaps in this case, don't have a lot of time to dedicate to a big book), I suggest you choose Gwendy's Button Box for a good dose of "what-ifs".Side note: the version I read includes an additional short story called "The Music Room".
Not much too it and not really worth hunting down unless you are a King completist.
Gwendy's Button Box was a fun story, but I'm glad I only spent 9$ on the eBook and not $30 for the hardcover copy.
But it ultimately falls flat.
And frankly, I have no idea what the hell they were trying to accomplish with the ending (the only thing I can guess is that there might be a sequel that tells us just what the hell all those buttons were actually for...?).
In many way, King should have just written this himself and fleshed the story out into an actual novel.
Gwendy's Button Box was a novel trying to be a novella.
This story is peppered with the New England flavour for which King is so well known and an innocent story that turns on a single item, something Chizmar surely influenced after being handed control of the story.
King and Chizmar took on a seemingly innocent plot and allowed it to evolve and take shape, to the point that the reader is left to wonder just who Gwendy Peterson might be.
A wonderful story that packs a punch and offers up much entertainment, one can only hope that King has more of these ideas rumbling around and that Chizmar is on hand to help spin them, in the years to come.Kudos, Messrs.
3.5 Stars  If you had the power to destroy worlds, what would you do? This brand new novella written by King and Richard Chizmar asks this very question to a twelve-year-old girl. Gwendy is a smart and nice kid living in Maine with her parents. On one fine day, she meets a peculiar man: A man in black who presents her a box of ultimate power for safe keeping.An odd stranger giving a mysterious box to a 12-year-old girl. I mean, if that's not setting off alarms in your head, what would?!It's a ni
Gwendy is a smart and nice kid living in Maine with her parents.
On one fine day, she meets a peculiar man: A man in black who presents her a box of ultimate power for safe keeping.An odd stranger giving a mysterious box to a 12-year-old girl.
We got a lot of likable characters, generic bully/ bad guy and a cozy mystery.
(hide spoiler)]By the way, my favorite moment had nothing much to do with the main characters.
I like those odds, old-timer.”Lenny reaches into his pants pocket and comes out with a flick knife.
I absolutely love Stephen King and "Gwendy's Button Box" was okay. I think I was expecting a bit more at the end since the plot was so interesting to start with.So with that said, I'm going with 3 stars on this one.The book wasn't bad but it didn't blow me away either.Recommended for Stephen King fans.Recommended for someone looking for a quick novella on morality or questions on being given infinite power and how you would handle this "gift".Is it really a gift though?Read this book to find out!
Pre-Read: YES!! The man in black.... oh, shit!Read: Such a lovely Novella.... muhahahaPost-Read: Excellent novella about being responsible for what essentially could be a "Pandora's Box." What would you do with the Red Button???
Like the good ones often do, Gwendy's Button Box succeeds by planting questions in your mind.
And what could it possibly do if I pushed this little button?
The scary in this story is not in the tangible, the things we see.
If Gwendy looses that box.
What could happen then?Gwendy knows she the safekeeper of the button box.
Eight buttons on top of this beautiful, mahogany box.
Good things begin to happen for Gwendy in those first days that lead into the years that follow.
What's not to love about this box?Surprisingly, the writing style feels very simplistic here, like something for preteen readers.
He is my favourite author, I grew up reading his books, and I still love reading his stories.As for this one, it did not disappoint, if I have any complaints it's that I wish it was longer!This is the story of Gwendy, who we meet when she's twelve years old, on the day she makes the acquaintance of Richard Farris.
To say much more would give away some of the plot, which I think takes away from the reading of this book.
I didn't read any details at all, just opened the book and started reading.
I think that's the best way.
What a fantastic book! It's stories like this that really showcase Stephen King's complexity and depth both as a writer and as a person. I thoroughly enjoyed reading this; my only gripe is that I wish the book could be longer. But c'est la vie.Off to find the next gem!
This story reminded me of the Twilight Zone episode "It's a Good Life" with Billy Mumy as Anthony Fremont. But in this case Gwendy Peterson is a good person who tries to distance herself from a power that can consume her. The ability to control desire while welding absolute power is a sad story that has been told time and time again and written in blood. This novella is well written and (for the first time I can remember) gives us the perspective of a young girl as she grows up with a box that seems to contain limitless power.
He seems to know how to draw out those hidden secret tendrils of truth from within her that no one else knows.But then this man in black tweaks the very thing that catches the eye of the young.......promises.
And Gwendy now knows the weight of that simple box.The measurable weight of this novella seems to be in the hands of Chizmar more than King.
This is more a cerebral read of "what would happen if......"I certainly recommend Gwendy's Button Box for all readers beyond the usual King groupies.
What do you keep in your closet?A bench, a stranger dressed in black, and a very special box. It's a button box, but the buttons are on the outside. It has just become Gwendy's responsibility. Watch out for a black bowler hat that has an air of menace about it. Careful . . . you're being watched.Promising start, tepid finish. For readers who shy away from the sterner stuff, this could very well be a perfect pick.
Ever since I can remember, I have been a fan of Stephen King. Do not get me wrong, I do not like everything that I have read by him. Yet, more oft than not, I enjoy the stories that King writes. Sometimes he gives us a story that makes us question our own morality and sense of decency. The novella,  Gwendy's Button Box  is one of those stories. Stephen King and Richard Chizmar take us back to Castle Rock so we can meet and follow Gwendy Peterson as she deals with possessing a button box that is
Do not get me wrong, I do not like everything that I have read by him.
Yet, more oft than not, I enjoy the stories that King writes.
Stephen King and Richard Chizmar take us back to Castle Rock so we can meet and follow Gwendy Peterson as she deals with possessing a button box that is given to her by a perfect stranger.
Without divulging any elements of story, we become a part of Gwendy's journey over the course of two decades.
Like all of us, Gwendy must struggle with both the light and dark elements that life throws our ways.
I know short stories aren't for every reader, even for Constant Readers, but I for one-LOVE THEM!
I saw this book sitting on my nightstand about an hour ago and I thought, "What the actual fuck am I waiting for?!"So I picked it up and I read it.And damn it was good.
See, people complain that short stories skimp on character development--as if one needs hundreds and hundreds of pages to bring a character to life!
Every good story, even a short one, has conflict--something maybe dangerous or threatening so that our protagonist can work through it and grow, make choices, handle the conflict.
LOVED IT! I'm a fan. I'll do a proper review when more of my pals have read it!
The writing flowed so well and was really seamless, you couldn't tell where King ended and Chizmar ended.
Not only was the writing seamless but I absolutely loved the concept of the story itself!
I also really loved Gwendy's character, something about her just spoke to me and I found myself really invested in what she would do with the box and how her life would play out.
And I really really love the name Gwendy!
I really couldn't have enjoyed this novella more and I definitely found myself wishing that it would have been a full length story instead of just a novella!
Not going to review this one (at least, not yet) as I know several of my King-lovin' friends haven't had a chance to experience this novella.
I will say this, however: this is certainly one of my favorite King stories and has placed an urgency on my finally reading some Chizmar.
A relentless and scarily relevant vision of guilt and desire and the seduction of power, Gwendy's Button Box is a damn fine story.
I will be rereading this when my special edition from Nocturnal Reader's Box arrives.
Great story!!! Great novella!!!I think I am becoming a Stephen King fan.
Today we’re talking about Gwendy’s Button Box.Another peculiarity about this novella: it’s written with a collaborator, Richard Chizmar.
Chizmar is the founder of Cemetery Dance, which just so happened to publish Gwendy’s Button Box. Probably not a coincidence.King reportedly sent Chizmar a good chunk of the novella once he realized he didn’t know how to continue it, and told him to do “whatever he wanted with it”.
Or maybe, at the very least, spent more time with Chizmar fleshing out the story.But neither of those things happened, and this is what we’re left with.Gwendy’s Button Box is a novella, but just barely.
I REALLY liked the plot and the set up here but I wish they had taken it a little more in depth
A story that only Stephen King can write. Short and packed with the history and culture of Gwendy and her box. :)
Squeezed this in as a last book for March.One of my favourite books by Stephen King. It is a short and quick read, only took me a few hours to read it. I enjoyed everything about it, and don't think there was anything that disappointed me!Highly recommend it.
Read for Popsugar’s 2018 Reading Challenge: Read a book by two authorsThis was great! The concept was strange and intriguing, and listening to it on audiobook was a treat. I felt a little underwhelmed by the ending, as I would have liked a bit more resolution (although sometimes I don’t listen 100% during audiobooks so maybe I missed something) but overall it was a fun, slightly dark read. I definitely want to get my hands on a physical copy though because I know I’ll be rereading this one!
Chizmar is a fantastic blend of fable and urban myth.Channeling Bradbury in it’s autumnal simplicity and inexplicability, Gwendy’s Button Box is also a horrific re-imagining of the Monkey’s Paw legend.
In a Castle Rock, Maine, mid-70s setting Young Gwendy is approached by an odd man in a black bowler.
The man presents her with a strange box that has even stranger powers, potentially awesome powers.
What follows is a surrealistic fantasy made approachable by King’s style and talent.
** Actually, in an afterward statement, King describes how he could not come up with a good ending and Chizmar was able bring us the final result.A quick, easy read, this examines some tough questions and some provocative imaginings.
