https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1379923.The_Girl_from_Hollywood
Other resource books on Hollywood during the 1920s cited this book by Burroughs and said it was not a particularly good book.
Having read it myself, allow me to confirm: it is not a good book.
If young women go to Hollywood, they will be forced to remove their clothing and degrade themselves, and will become drug addicts.
A week of horseriding in the country will cure prolonged addictions to cocaine and morphine!My eyes rolled so much as I read, it's a wonder they didn't escape my skull.
This is such a heavy-handed morality soap opera.
If I didn’t know who the author was, I would not likely have guessed although there were glimpses of ERB’s style here and there.An interesting factoid: in the biographical account of ERB’s life, Tarzan Forever: The Life of Edgar Rice Burroughs the Creator of Tarzan, it is reported that the Pennington Ranch in this novel (called Rancho del Ganado), is identical to ERB’s actual California home, Tarzana at that time.ERB was never as successful with his contemporary novels as his heroic fiction.
What I learned from this book: Cocaine is bad for you. Luckily, you can overcome an addiction by spending a few days horse-riding in the country. A girl should not move to the big smoke unaccompanied by a suitable mentor or she will become a drug addict and may even die. Calling your parents 'momsy and popsy' and using words like 'splendoriferous' is irresistably cute.
This is one of Edgar Rice Burroughs few contemporary novels. It makes interesting comments on prohibition, drug addiction, and early Hollywood. The ranch land that the characters ride around on, is now suburbia. It proves an interesting view into a world, that is no longer with us.
This is a simple story of the quiet and fun filled life at the verdant Californian ranches that is disturbed by the influence of the big, bad city nearby and its restoration after some trials. The description of the beautiful landscapes and the life in the country is lively. The portrayal of Hollywood as a dangerous place for the innocent reflects the public opinion of the early twentieth century America. With a dose of romance, drama, crime, action and morals, this novel is a complete entertainment package, though a bit too simple for the modern reader.
Edgar Rice Burroughs combines the Wild West with urban crime in this tale of drug addiction, whisky smuggling, the movie business and country living. It’s a sensational little page-turner, vividly brought to life. Melodramatic entertainment, now old-fashioned, but I enjoyed it immensely
It's difficult to choose between 4 and 5 stars.
I enjoyed it from the beginning to the end.
the only fault of the book is, actually, the end itself.
Both the hero and heroine suffer from substance abuse.The best character is Shannon Burke/ Gaza De Lure, which is in the end the only heroine of the book, she moves the plot, she makes it funny and enjoyable, she is the most sympathetic character that I have ever found in a Burroughs' Novel.The plot is also more intricate than the other novels that the author wrote.4 1/2 stars.
