https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/213753.Life_As_We_Knew_It
This book is was very overwhelming for me.
I felt like it could really happen.
After I read half the book I honestly wanted to go to the grocery store and get as much food as I possibly could.
It showed me how fragile our lives really are, and I was reminded again what really is important in life.
Miranda grows so much, at first I think she sounds a bit spoiled but she grows out of it.
That is what made me want to put the book down but I really just had to know how it ended.
And the end gave you something to hold on to.
Okay, I was really looking forward to this book - I've been reading a lot of dystopias lately and they've surprised me in a positive way. Not this one.Why? SCIENCE. Listen, if you're writing fantasy or sci-fi that's not based on Earth you can go all out, like, "That asteroid knocked Zhogenaqn, our moon, out of orbit, which caused all the feueldndao plants to release zignhnwp, a deadly virus." It's cool. You can do that, and I won't even bat an eyelash at it.BUT when you say "oh all the astron
Listen, if you're writing fantasy or sci-fi that's not based on Earth you can go all out, like, "That asteroid knocked Zhogenaqn, our moon, out of orbit, which caused all the feueldndao plants to release zignhnwp, a deadly virus." It's cool.
Not that there would be anything to calculate since the book tells us the asteroid was "a lot smaller than the moon"!
Bitch all you want, but even now with this fucking crisis, there are a lot of people who would be starving if it weren't for food provided by organizations connected to religious movements.Don't use YA books as your platform to spout this kind of shit.
i keep reading these survival stories, thinking to myself, "i will know what to do if this happens - i will have tips and tricks and i will be the last one standing." that's pretty much bullshit.
while its true i probably could survive, i wouldn't want to.
i don't want to have to dig for water or develop a complex food-storage system or eat dandelion greens.
post-apocalyptic menses without a duane reade around?
but i like to read about other people surviving and telling myself it would be different if it were me.
but mostly the starving.
dear god, the starving...come to my blog!
In May the meteor knocks the moon out of its orbit and everything changes.Miranda’s mother is the real hero of this story, having the foresight to begin amassing food and winter clothes, (candles, batteries, water) while the rest of the world watches and waits.
We the readers remain mostly naïve about world events because we only know what Miranda writes in her diary and she’s stopped listening to the news only occasionally giving us tidbit from rare radio broadcast that now mostly consist of death lists but soon even the radio stops.
Scientists say that a meteor is going to hit the moon, and everyone doesn't really care about being a doomsday because the scientists say there wont be.
This book is a horrible end of the world book, it has at most 15 pages of excitement.
The whole book is about a family surviving in a house and trying to get food and firewood.
This book remains the same, for 400 or so pages, it never changes, all you read about is surviving in a house and reading about the teen doing homework, and eating.Overall I hated this book, I really did.
The characters are basic, the plot typical for this type of novel.
What I hoped we got more of was the impact on the rest of the country.
I get that the point of the book is what specifically happens to this one family, but the author just throws out most of the eastern seaboard is washed away and hundreds of thousands of people died.
I want to know what happens to the country as a whole...
In the end, I find myself wanting to see what happens to the family in the next book so the author has done well!
Life As We Knew It (Last Survivors #1) by Susan Beth Pfeffer is a book that sounded so intriguing and it certainly was!
This book follows one family before and after as everything goes to h#ll right away as tidal waves surge again and again, then more and more disaster happen due to the different forces of the gravitational pull.
Other things happen too!
Very thrilling and exciting book!
Who knew disasters could be so entertaining, lol, as long as it's in a book!
Die Idee hinter der Geschichte fand ich toll, was daraus gemacht wurde aber nicht. Alles war so belanglos und oberflächlich, Miranda merkwürdig, die Mutter verrückt und das Ende, darüber sprechen wir am besten einfach nicht.
I’d be walking along the road thinking about how it’s probably good that someone shared their lunch with me today because we need to save food.
These accounts make you understand what’s happening to different groups of people without being there.
The family is only able to find out what’s happening in the rest of the world (many, many deaths, famine, volcanic eruptions, flooding) through rare radio broadcasts.
Mostly, it’s just Miranda’s thoughts and her account of life with her mother and her two brothers, confined to their home, wondering if they’re going to live or die.I thoroughly enjoyed this book and can see why it has received so much praise.
I really hated this book.I'm a sucker for dystopian/end of the world books, let me tell you.
We get to meet Miranda, the spoiled girl who gripes because her mother won't let her eat whatever she wants.
I feel like Pfeffer's voice and opinions were coming through her characters, making them shallow and unbelievable.The volcano in Yellowstone park erupts, but yet nothing happens except a little ash.
Miranda's family had finally run out of food, and she was walking the streets, expecting to die.
I found myself left with a disappointed feeling, a book I hated, and a wasted $7.95.
3.5 StarsThese books always make me a bit paranoid, I start hoarding tins, toilet roll, candles. I need to buy a bunker in Alaska or something.
I think the reason why this book really grabbed my attention was the fact that it didn’t seem so far fetched.
I thought the character of Miranda was pretty believable in her capabilities and mood swings.
There were a few plot holes, but I had to overlook that because not many books make me want to turn into one of those crazy dooms day prepper people who hoard food in their basements and learn secret languages.
This book reminded me a lot of The Age of Miracles even though the writing wasn’t as good.
I’m onto book 2.
This is one of the most psychologically terrifying books I've ever read, and I think that's because of its hyper-realism.
I think I'd class this as a survival tale.
Miranda's world progresses so slowly, so smoothly, that it's hard to even realize how nightmarish her life has become.
Don't expect any jump scares, or explicitly scary scenes, yet the whole book is terrifying.
Again, the showing and not telling is the main strength of the book.
Honestly, I read this book too long ago to really get everything, but I think you can get anything you want from this review.Blog | Goodreads | Twitter | Youtube
Page after page of quiet but powerful sentences, thoughtful lessons that will stay with you long after you've put this book down.A large meteor has collided with the moon, pushing it closer to Earth, causing tidal waves, tsunamis, earthquakes, and volcanoes.
The power grid is destroyed.
Miranda, once a typical teenage girl, now faces the unthinkable for herself and for her family.“Do people ever realize how precious life is?
There was always time.
I am 17 and warm and well fed, I'm keeping this journal for myself so I can always remember life as we knew it...
These are the good times.”
This one has been so popular with the sixth graders I actually snagged it from the "return" box so I could finally read it!
The main character (Miranda) has a best friend (Megan) who has "changed" since she became a Christian.
As the story unfolds, you see Megan behaving like a Christian, but spouting a pharisitical, self-depricating version of Christianity.
Miranda says many times to Megan, "I hate your god." At first I was really offended, but I think that the "God" that these characters looked to is nothing like the God I know.
Life on Earth changes suddenly for humanity when a large asteroid strikes the moon, knocking it closer to the planet.
Miranda keeps a daily diary about what happens after the abrupt end of modern society.Life As We Knew it is the first of four books in the Last Survivors series.
And I do....but....There's always a but, isn't there.....so let's get that "but'' out of the way before I talk about what I like about this series.It is not possible for an asteroid to strike the moon and knock it closer to the planet earth.
Would recommend if you like post apocalyptic stories!Likes: -I love survival stories in general, and this fulfilled that.-A very realistic feeling apocalyptic event.-I loved that this showed the very beginning of the crisis and how survivors dealt with drastic changes.-The diary entry format suited this story and gave a personal touch.-I liked that the ending actually touched on a broad scale solution.Dislikes:-The writing was very simplistic.-Insensitive wording concerning mental health and disability.
I was warned that the narrator made the character sound immature, but I think that is actually due to the writing.
All characters sounded the same.
Dealing with all of that has been quite stressful, but Miranda's been thinking about getting back into ice-skating, and she's spending plenty of time mooning over her current hero/crush, Olympic-hopeful Brandon Erlich, a hometown hero.
Some scientists predict a minor collision; teachers predict plenty of extra homework dealing with the subjects of both Moon and meteors.
LIFE AS WE KNEW IT follows Miranda and her family through nearly a year after the meteor's collision with the Moon, and all of the events that come after it--the power outages, the food shortages, the weather changes, and the loss of human contact.
Imagine Armageddon directed by Catherine Hardwicke instead of Michael Bay. Life As We Knew It is an end-of-the-world scenario told through the eyes of a teenage girl, who writes down everything that happens in amazingly long and detailed diary entries, which become increasingly implausible as she writes multi-page narratives about how she just dragged her entire sick family out of a smoke-filled sunroom while on the verge of starving to death herself.This is not a bad book -- it's got a voice that will speak to teen readers (though I think that voice sounds more like Mom than that of an actual teenage girl) and it's got moments of drama and a heartwarming hope-will-carry-you-through message.
Then if nothing was there, I would have assumed that something happened to her father and leave it at that, but she goes downtown to ask and then nothing.It made me sad that everyone knew Jonny was the one to survive if it came down to one.
I enjoyed the unfolding of the characters as much as I enjoyed the plot unfolding.The story was frightening and made me want to go out and double-stock my food storage.
Now that city hall was open and they had food, they could have asked.
This is very much a young adult book, but very interesting. Things tend to happen a bit too easy, but still very interesting, a sort of Anne Frank for the apocalypse. Definitely recommend to teen readers and others.
Who knows.) Either way I was really excited to read this book.
I like survival stories or when people are thrown into different situations (like the 100 or something) but this book just had me flip-flopping all over the place.
Overall, I liked the book.
I would've loved it but there's nothing I can really change about it since this book has been out for like ever.
I will definitely have to think about whether or not I want to continue this series because I don't want to be disappointed by the next book or be mad because someone else read the second book and said it was a lot better than the first.Tough decision guys - make it for me!
"Life as We Knew It" is a teen book version of disaster movies such as "Armageddon," "2012," and "The Day After Tomorrow" told from a 16-year old girl's POV.
The book is compelling in many ways.
What is disappointing about this book however, is the flatness of the narration.
Call me naive, but I expect a high point, some kind of conflict, climax if you wish, in every book I read.
This book is rather underwhelming in that respect.
While I share Pfeffer's views, I think she should have been a little more subtle about them, after all it's a book for kids.
Overall, an engrossing but monotonous book.
I first read Life As We Knew It five years ago when I couldn't get enough of post-apocalyptic and dystopian fiction.
Miranda reading her diary aloud meant that I caught little bits of the story that I think I missed the first time – Emily Bauer has done a fantastic job at narrating the audiobook.
It's been 10 years since it was first published, but Life As We Knew It is still one of the few YA post-apocalyptic novels that had me thinking about it after I put it down.I also reviewed this book over on Pretty Books.
;))It’s been years since Micheala & I have hung out, and I’m lately too busy with regular life to continue learning all of these crazy handmade crafts that I used to be so fascinated in.
Although I appreciate the realness of Miranda not knowing or caring to know the condition of the world around her… I want to know!
Hopefully Miranda and her family will learn more about becoming self-sufficient (I wonder why they didn’t turn to the library for survival books?)Maybe there will be some tension, a love interest, and more natural disasters.
War besser als anfangs erwartet. Bin schon gespannt auf den nächsten Teil.
I have huge problems however with making fun of the President only to solve the problems in the book ...
Last time I checked, the PRESIDENT IS THE GOVERNMENT!
How can we count on the GOVERNMENT for the food if the PRESIDENT (who according to the narrator totally messed this whole thing up) is RUNNING THE GOVERNEMNT!Oh, and the churches?
Last time I checked, tons of churches stock food pantries all over the world; not necessarily governments stocking food pantries.Huge problems with the way the story came out.
I would rather count on people that I know from church than people who I don't know (government).
Anfangs hatte ich meine Probleme mit dem Buch, allerdings erwies es sich doch als sehr runde, packende Sache, die nicht künstlich mit Drama versetzt wurde, sondern glaubhaft wirkte. Wer mal eine etwas ruhigere Katastrophengeschichte lesen möchte, kann hier definitiv zugreifen :)
”I didn’t start this diary for it to be a record of death.” CHILLS. That’s what I feel every time I read this book. Straight. Up.  chills.  Life as We Knew It is unique to other apocalypse books I’ve read, and that makes it even more enjoyable. It’s different because there isn’t really a lot of action at all. The only action/excitement there is happens in the first fifty pages. After that, you just get to see Miranda’s world slowly shrink as things become unsafe, or it’s too cold or she’s too h
That’s what I feel every time I read this book.
Life as We Knew It is unique to other apocalypse books I’ve read, and that makes it even more enjoyable.
It’s terrifying and really sad, yes, but there’s also a lot of hope, which makes the sad parts easier to read.
I’ve read this book SO many times and I’ve just started to notice all the little intricacies that went into it.
There is so much showing and so little telling in this book, and usually the changes are so subtle that you don’t even notice them happening.
I've come to realize why I am addicted to these types of books, for years I've had nightmares about the world ending or some kind of disaster where I'm trying to save my kids and sometimes other people.
So, I guess reading these types of books gives me a little hope that we could survive, as crazy as that may seem.Life as we knew it, wow, it's pretty amazing.
I'm impressed at where this author has taken me and all the emotions I felt along the way.
