https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/567708.The_Silver_Metal_Lover
All my friends who read this gave it no less than four stars.
Sigh.2) The Mother and the friends.
It became unbearable to read about them.3) I know this was written in 1981, but I felt the author was very heavy-handed in portraying a teenager's mood swings and immature behaviors.
For anyone.*One thing I did really like was the world building.
But I feel like I am forcing myself to read something I don't want to.
:(And now I've found out from a few other reviews that Jane doesn't even (view spoiler)[end up with Silver????
"Mother, I am in love with a robot."  Excuse me while I sploosh everywhere. And then worry about the sploosh tarnishing the robot's gears and machinery. This is the story of Jane, a sixteen year old sheltered, pampered and wishy-washy young woman, who falls in love with a robot called Silver. Silver, however, is not a normal robot. He has been designed to be better than human in every way and is so lifelike that Jane never sees him as anything other than a human man, except when she is at her
This is the story of Jane, a sixteen year old sheltered, pampered and wishy-washy young woman, who falls in love with a robot called Silver.
I do have to say, for a while there I thought there was going to be a twist where it is revealed that (view spoiler)[ Jane is actually a robot herself and her and Silver can get robot married and have robot babies and live happy robot lives together  (hide spoiler)] but alas, that was not to be.This is a story about love in all it's forms.
A wonderful story full of character progression, love, trials, tribulations, heartbreak, hopelessness and forgiveness.
So lusting after a robot - especially when you're a sweet sixteen and the robot in question is Silver, a handsome fully equipped long haired brand new prototype, programmed to pleasure its buyer - seems pretty easy.So could we someday develop robots that are able to trick us into believing they are human?
It may leave you pondering a bit about what it means to be human, but mostly The Silver Metal Lover 'just' reads as an excellent young adult romance, focusing on the coming of age of rich kid and cry baby Jane.When she throws herself into the arms of Silver, she realizes that she probably shouldn't tell her controlling mom, who views her daughters upbringing as a pedagogically sound project.
It kind of combines all my obsessions into one amazing book: sex, robots, love, identity and philosophical questions about what makes us human.
Seeing Jane become her own person, not just her mother's accessory.The other thing the POV permits is wonderfully unreliable narration, especially as regards Silver and his potential for human-ness.
Buddy read with Karly AND J-Rex sometime in 2016 I think?I found this DAW edition with a bad/awesome cover at a used bookstore today.(view spoiler)[ (hide spoiler)]I still like the Kinuko Craft cover best (even though Karly hates it).
:P(view spoiler)[ (hide spoiler)]REVIEWWhat prompted this buddy read was another BR last November, of The Mad Scientist's Daughter.
In my review I mentioned how much better The Silver Metal Lover was, so we decided we'd read it and prove me right/wrong.
How else do you explain why, reading this, I was trying not to break down in a McDonald's while my girls played?
The mother, who ordered Jane from a catalog and kept her programmed to her liking, from her body shape to her hair color to her talents.
Her mother kept her like a doll, a plaything for her to control and manipulate.But I knew that this would be a coming of age story, that through the events of the story that Jane would evolve to something more so I continued on in that vein.
A ray like a star, a sun.Silver is essentially the only robot of his kind.
But the story of Jane and Silver?
It chronicles the life of Jane, a vapid rich girl who lives in the future and doesn't really know what it is to feel anything, or how to experiance life.
First of all, Janes transformation throughout the book is simply astounding.
The slums are beautiful, despite the destitude of the people living there, and every other backdrop in the book just drips with amazingly vivid descriptions.
This is my first book by this author, but it certainly not the last I will be reading.
Lastly, the idea of Jane and Silver's love enduring for all time is really just...beautiful.
I read little sci-fi, and next to none before picking this book up, but this is by far one of the best I have read.I want to continue on and give this book a rave review to encourage you to pick this up but, honestly, I'm still salty that I lent it to a friend and she then lost it without ever reading it. Bitter af.
Lee also grapples with the concept of free will and other related ideas; for example, after Jane stops taking her pills, she begins to change physically, which made me question just how much effect her early "programming" had on her to begin with, which interrelates to the theme of the robot's programming as well.I have noted a pattern with Lee's stories by the way; her stories always seem to include male and female outsiders who don't fit in with society, yet in the end, they seem to pair up and find their niche and we see them for who they truly are -- they are able to find their inner strength and affect the world around them in a positive way.
Honestly I haven't read this book since I was 16.
But the feeling of this story has been there for me.
I don't know if you would like it, appreciate it, I am not sure if at 45 I will like it, but all I have is that I have remembered this book.
Something stayed and that is powerful.Re-read September 2015So, I loved it.
This time I picked up that the story takes place in a post-apocalyptic world.
It is more than a love story.
I am making this one of go to re-read books.
But 'coming of age' is a crapulous label for story-telling.
there is a reason stories associate first-love with death.
So: Silver Metal Lover is a book where the girl wonders what color her hair would be if she didn't take her mother's pills; what shape would her bod take.
She wonders whether her friends are enemies, and if she could exist on her own, and if robots have souls.
For that matter she wonders if flesh-and-blood girls have souls.
By 'souls' we can just say identity.
This is a haunting love-story, a sci-fi adventure, and the reading of a sensitive soul's diary.
I enjoyed seeing Jane's path to becoming an actual human from that vapid shell under her mother's thumb.I felt for her.
Gosh that sounds dismissive.Well yeah she, 16 year old vapid rich girl Jane, did fall in love.
Jane only had to fall in love, sell her worldly goods and live in the slums to find out its not so bad outside the safe bubble of her mothers house.
She kept Jane emotionally stunted.I don't know why I'm almost scared to write how I feel about this book because if I was someone else I would probably judge me.
What an absolutely fantastic book! I can't rave enough about it. Jane is a girl in the future who meets a robotic man and then the story goes from there. I loved them together, it was so romantic. And the ending, I'm still crying! I have book #2 from the library and that is definitely the next book I'm reading. I would categorize this book as science fiction romance for both adults and young adults. Would recommend it to everyone.
I thoroughly enjoyed the way we saw Silver through the evolving eyes of our main character, Jane, as she learned that her life perhaps wasn’t as rose-coloured as it may have appeared.
I really enjoyed the way Lee expressed Silver’s love and compassion for Jane in ways that felt natural and believable in a robot love interest, by having him acknowledge that the ways she was with him registered differently than how other humans treated him.
The front cover art, combined with the brilliant synopsis on the back ("He was a robot, and he could do everything a real man could do—yes, everything...”), made it almost impossible for me NOT to read this book.So, I didn’t like it.
But I will admit, it could have been worse -- there were no graphic human/robot sex scenes (a definite mercy; thank you, Tanith Lee), and the writing was decent.
Those powers combined, it wasn’t the worst book I’ve ever read.
And thanks to goodreads, I’ve now learned that there’s actually a sequel to this book.
A book like this only comes around once.Tanith Lee has never written so well before or after.
Good but never as evocative, as real, as poignantly heart touching, as piercingly tearful.To render a character like Silver that will be, nay, shall be loved unanimously by all readers is no mean feat for an author.
And there are certain echoes of a time to come maybe in our future where this book like Ray Bradbury's novels may not be too far from the truth.
I loved it.
It's not a hard core sex book or anything...sure it mentions sex, but that's about it.
There's the romantic quality of a "good woman" being able to give a man/robot (Silver) a soul, but it's also a story about what he does for her too.
Jane basically is a young girl who doesn't understand her own feelings & for the man (robot) she loves she strips herself down to the bare basics.
Her friends suck & bring to mind the saying, "With friends like that, who needs enemies?"I feel like rereading it immediatley.
Ah, this is the best, it's the best. It's the deepest, the sweetest, it's the saddest. What else can compare? Nuttin', I'm tellin' ya, nuttin'. No-one is ideal and perfect, here, not even the robot who was constructed to be that way. And that's good, because beauty and love are incompatible with perfection.If you don't cry a little, you probably don't have a soul. But your robot might.
While you get a feeling for where Jane and Silver are heading around the half-way mark, Jane's relationship with her mother kept me wondering until the very end, and I thought it was very well done.Lee's language is light, sparkly and flowing.
It feels a bit like green, bubbly wine even when the subject matter gets darker and the feeling of doom heavier.Read this for spirited language.
Read this for that wonderful feeling of being hit by delicious tragedy and then a bit of hope.
Review from my blog, http://rosesandvellum.blogspot.com/The Silver Metal Lover is a book which questions the nature of humanity.
She says she feels more like a machine than a human because of this.
However she and her robot lover, 'Silver' are the only ones who really have connections.
Even her friends, most of whom don't really seem to care about her at all, are manipulative people, who enjoy sex but not love.
The world presented in the story is also interesting, the machines, the cities, the way people live, are all so different from the way we live, and yet, so similar.
Since I used to go by the name “Tanith” on the interwebs, I guess it’s good I finally read a Tanith Lee book.
Jane, the protagonist and narrator, bugged me at first, but that made her development as a character even more compelling—Lee does a good job showing her change and grow as a person.
I liked Silver’s development as well, and I liked them as a couple.
Really?—but overall I enjoyed this book very much, especially the middle sections when it’s just Jane, Silver, and the music they make.
I absolutely adored this. It made me cry. What more can I say?
I remember that in '82 I loved and wept over this book. I will have to reread it because I mean to read the sequel.
This book was phenomenal. I'm obsessed. I'm not generally one for Sci-fi, but this book had too many of the right elements for me to pass it up (1980's influence/published and featuring long haired musician robot).I've been really lucky with books lately and feared that my streak might end with this one, it almost looked too good to be true, but it blew my expectations away. Also, ADORE Kinuko Craft's cover art. I'm now on the hunt for some of the more dated covers, just for fun.Gutted that  The

She says, ‘My mother has a lot of opinions, which is restful, as that way I don’t have to have many of my own.’ Jane is sentient but has little self awareness.
I’m in love.With whom, dear?His name is Silver.How metallic.Yes. It stands for Silver Ionized Locomotive Verisimulated Electronic Robot.Silence.
I’m a robot, he says, but is he sentient?
But Tanith holds us to our mythologies that say the ‘fall’ is necessary—separation is necessary for soul growth.TSML is an extraordinary tale of erotic love and the lasting transformation it brings.
I saw that some of my friends on here were reading this and reading their updates on this, the book sounded fucking awesome and so up my alley.
My biggest problem with this book was the insta love.
She acted like a ten year old who didn't her way instead of a sixteen year old in love.
I'm not sure if I want to read the sequel because there's (view spoiler)[a different woman for Silver (hide spoiler)] but I'll probably snatch up a cheap copy sometime in the future.
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Saw that some people were reading this and it sounds right up my alley.
Every review I tried to write for this book turned into a Socratic dialogue on why it is or isn't wrong to love a robot, and why robots can or can’t have souls, and how biology is or isn't different from sophisticated programming, and, ultimately, what the perfect love of a robot that is programmed to please can teach us about the imperfect love of humans.
In a human–human love story, you might be wondering why this super-talented, super-together guy is even interested in this neurotic runaway, but here it makes sense.This might be more of a four-star book for thinkableness and characters, but at the same time there's not a great deal of plot and it feels very "1980," so I can't really see myself revisiting it.
I picked up The Silver Metal Lover at my local used bookstore on a whim.
It looked like mildly fun old-school scifi with a hilariously dated cover, and it was super cheap.
The Silver Metal Lover is hands down amazing.
Dated it is, yes, though I still think the incredible visuals would make for a great movie adaptation.
Then there's Silver, the robot who learns to feel and essentially gains a soul through Jane's love for him.
He's funny, charming, and tragic, and it's easy to see why Jane is drawn to him.
The secondary characters are just as well drawn.
This is the case here with Tanith Lee. This saddens me because if this book is any indicator of her talent regarding her broader body of work, the science fiction world has lost a great voice.The story concept of Silver Metal Lover is simple enough.
It is, like a lot of novels, at its core about the haves and the have-nots, class, prejudice, and fear of the differences.It is also a love story between a girl and a robot.
The voice of the main cgaracters, Jane and Silver, are believable and sympathetic.
If it was, sadly Tanith Lee passed before its conclusion.
Classic early SF by the Fantasy mistress. Wish she'd written more SF. Wonder if I still have a copy?Martha Wells mentions this as an influence on her "Murderbot" series:"The Silver Metal Lover was one of the first books I remember where it was actually about a human-robot relationship, where that was focus of the story. It’s a romance between a young woman and a robot and it never gets into the usual “kill all humans and take over the world” territory."https://www.theverge.com/2017/9/16/16...Gee, I didn't recall the cover art being so *ugly*. Don Maitz! What was he thinking?ISFDB: http://www.isfdb.org/cgi-bin/pl.cgi?2...
