https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/281415.Spinsters_in_Jeopardy
I don't know that the 17th book in any series can really be expected to be one of the best ones, so I'm not really sure what I was thinking here.
I was a weird kid.) Anyway, I tried to read it several times, but I thought Spinsters was impenetrable.
I was pretty confident in my ability to get through it as an adult, but I will certainly admit that I see what was so confusing to Little Me. Here's the set-up: Inspector Alleyn has been invited to investigate shady dealings at a remote French chateau.
Coincidentally, this is the same chateau Alleyn has been sent to investigate.
There's a mystery element in the tale, to be sure, but it very much takes the back seat in what's otherwise a romp.The Yard's Roderick Alleyn is being lent to the Sûreté to help nail an international drug-trafficking gang operating out of the Alpes Maritimes.
Turns out that's the very chateau his bosses are hoping he'll be able to infiltrate, because it's the HQ of a seedy cult linked to the drugs gang.That's coincidence number one.
Coincidence number two -- the sudden taking-ill of a fellow passenger on the train -- is enough to gain Alleyn the kind of entree to the chateau, and the cult, that he could have only dreamed of.
Very much not on board for the kidnapping of Troy and Alleyn's young son.I always like the Troy/Alleyn dynamic, but on the other hand I'm not sure I entirely buy their reactions to the kidnapping of their son (Troy's is more realistic).
Also, Ricky Alleyn is far too much of an overly precocious child, who often does not sound like any child I have ever heard.
Snicker.)So yeah, on the plus side we had Alleyn family dynamics, and the completely hilarious ending, on the minus side, the kidnapping, the sense of menace and the creep-factor.I really can't make up my mind about it.
Oh for heavens' sake! I agree with the reefer madness references in other reviews (and I have, indeed, seen that very silly movie). Now that marijuana is legal, I can state without fear of arrest that "reefers" absolutely have no such effect or addiction potential. So there. :-)I really like this one--one of my favorites; it's just fun. Love Ricky.
Shades of Agatha Christi's 4:50 from Paddington and Hitchcock's 1956 film The Man Who Knew Too Much. Perhaps Agatha Troy could have broken out singing Que Sera, Sera while they hunted for little "Ricky" (Hank). Nothing like a mystery involving the rescue of several traveling 'spinsters' involving from the fat evil guy who starts a cult which is a cover for an international drug ring.
While I prefer her English manor home murders, I love anything Ngaio Marsh writes, including when she just goes for the crazy and fully embraces it like she does in this book. Here, her intrepid detective and his family come into close and dangerous contact with a cult. Mistaken identities, kidnappings, and goat statues all come into play, and it is a fun wild ride.
The Alleyns take a family trip, with Troy and Ricky joining Rory Alleyn in the South of France in Ngaio Marsh's Spinsters in Jeopardy.
But also, in Roqueville, near the location of the chateau where Alleyn is to be sent, Troy has an eccentric third cousin once removed, Moinsieur Garbel, who has been sending her strange letters, complete with used train tickets and details of his chemistry work.
So the Alleyns determine to break their rule against combining Rory's work with family activities and choose to take the trip to the South of France together.
3.5 stars
Another glimpse of Alleyn's family life, this time with the addition of young son Ricky. I wonder what happened to Alleyn's mother?
Most of her works are very much related to the stage, as her greatest passion was theater.2.This was not a whodunnit, this was much more, a thriller, where the good and the bad were defined and segregated from the first chapter.
So, the element of mystery was sadly missing.The first point never bothered me, because I like mysteries and I never care whether they are set on the stage or on the streets.
The book had its own pace, but it wasn’t enough for a thriller.There were hardly any THRILLING moments, which would put you on the edge of your seat.
I don't know if this is because of narrator Nadia May's irritating voice (described above).
Most of the time my reaction was "send the kid outside to play; he does not need the attention of his parents every goddamned minute of the day and night!" (Of course, then he gets kidnapped, so that puts me right in my place.)Perhaps it was progressive of Marsh to portray the Alleyn family as being so connected.
Reminiscent of Agatha Christie's 4:50 from Paddington, police Inspector Roderick Alleyn catches a glimpse of what he believes to be a murder through a train window as he passes a villa.
Ah, an inspector can never take a vacation from crime -- especially when Ricky goes missing in an attempt to dissuade Alleyn and Troy from investigating Chateau of the Silver Goat, the scene of the crime.
And how do they find their son?The sunlit Mediterranean setting and a mostly clever plot rescues this 17th entry in the Roderick Alleyn mystery series from its implausible ending.
This case takes Alleyn, with wife and son tagging along, to the French Riviera, where he gets mixed up with a strange cult and someone kidnaps his son.
A local man, Raoul, takes the role of sidekick (normally held by Fox who doesn't appear at all) in this story.
My main quibble with the book is that the bad guys didn't have the complexity that I have come to expect from Marsh which made the novel less interesting.
There was also very little question of "who done it," the story was more a matter of proving what was already known by Alleyn.
What to say about this one? I might be burned out since I was on a binge and this was my fourth. Marsh excels when she's dealing with the in-the-moment descriptions and thoughts of her main characters. Through the minds of Troy and Alleyn, she is dry and funny and creates a vivid scene in the reader's mind. Unfortunately, some of the situations are far-fetched and stretch my willing suspension of disbelief to the breaking point. This was another book chock full of stereotypes and stock characters with absurd, cartoonish speeches and unbelievably simplistic motivations.
I've read a few on Kindle, but real books are my first choice.
It's obviously old, with sepia-like fading on all the pages, and a penciled price of .10 on the inside front cover and a copyright date of 1952.
None of this has anything to do with reading the book itself, but I loved it.I had forgotten how much I enjoy Ngaio Marsh.
I went through a time many years ago when I read of bunch of her books and became quite taken with them.
Again, I didn't note the page or a quote...This is a fun book, especially if you are willing to suspend disbelief for some of it.
Now I remember - the topic is slightly gruesome, concerning evil cults and drug trafficking, as well as murder and kidnapping.
Alleyn takes Troy and their 6-year-old son Ricky along to France on a job, primarily because it is in or near the town where Troy's purported cousin, P.E. Garbel (a chemist),lives.
Alleyn decides to ask Dr. Baradi, a noted surgeon, who happens to be visiting at the suspect house, to help.
The doctor performs an appendectomy with Alleyn's help, while Troy stays with the sleeping Ricky and meets some of the other occupants of the house.
I had good memories of this book, and was looking forward to coming to it in the series re-read.
Sadly, I found that the prejudices of the time spoiled much of this book for me.
Although I could tell that the character who described them was outraged, I was almost amused to note that the description, for the most part, could be applied to a High Church Episcopal service with equal accuracy.
I also was saddened by the bias and inaccuracy of the descriptions of marijuana, and also the lack of strength that Troy has in this volume.
I read most of Ngaio Marsh's Inspector Alleyn series 20 years ago, but somehow missed this one.
It took a little effort to get into -- Alleyn and his wife, Troy speak in upper crust mid-20th century British English.
It has been awhile since I've read that style.
In this case Alleyn is officially investigating a drug running business in southern France with wife and son in tow as a cover.
Troy has been in contact with a distant cousin in the same area.
The only doctor in the area is at the house in question of Alleyn's investigation.
This is the only Marsh that I struggled to get into.
It's a departure from her usual set-up/murder/investigation - more like a thriller, with Alleyn (and, unbelievably, Troy and their son) going undercover to investigate a cult (which of course has all the usual Marsh dramatic flourishes).
The set-up is rather long-winded, but in the end the pay-off is probably worth it - kidnapping!
murder!
and not one but two young couples finding True Love during the investigation (another Marsh staple).
Very definitely not a good entry point to Inspector Alleyn, but an interesting read for anyone who wants to see Marsh (trying to) push her usual boundaries.
Not going to lie, when Troy is a presence in a book, I immediately perk up.
I really enjoyed that aspect - I felt it was a fresher take on the mystery novel, and the whole family in a thriller is a rather unique twist, even if Ricky was just a touch too, too much.
Also, I also really enjoyed Alleyn's French asides, and the dynamic between him and Troy (as always).
All in all, a solid book much enjoyed.
This was not at all like anything I was expecting.
It's more in the way of a thriller/drama than a mystery, in my opinion.
While there is a murder, it's pretty obvious who is responsible.
Alleyn's son plays a pretty prominent role in this novel and I kept having to remind myself of his age...
he seemed completely unrealistic.
I don't think I've ever heard a child talk that way, even a precocious one.
There are some pretty interesting characters though and I think they played a major part in keeping the novel afloat.
Change of setting for Alleyn, and this story included his young wife and Ricky, their 6 year old son. Marsh really fleshes out the domestic/familial feel and relations of the Alleyn family and in somewhat surprising ways considering she was not married herself. I loved Raoul (his French policeman helper in this story), and the language issues between those who speak French or English and those who do not added some levity.
This is the most sinister of Ngaio Marsh's books, I think. Twisty and dark and summed up well by this about one of main bad guys: "He has a genius for defilement." Along with the esoteric erotica, the drugs, and the murderous agenda in the castle, along with little Alleyn son, Ricky, playing a part in the plot, it is a page turner after which I felt like I needed a shower.
Rousing action when Rory and Troy take their young son along on a trip to south France and they see a murder out the train window at a castle built into the mountain rock where a cult leader lures disaffected and idle rich with drugs and his made-up mesmerism. Great banter among the Alleyns, even the 6-year-old, and a fun local driver with his own out-sized personality.
A delightful thriller! But I come to Marsh books for the murder mysteries, so a little bummed that this one isn't. I still enjoyed it and it was still well-written, but as a thriller it could have been longer and more tense.
Another wonderful Marsh read by the wonderful Nadia May! Great descriptions and interesting character development. Plot is a bit over the top, but it's a fun outing. Nice chance to practice my French comprehension as well!
One of Ngaio Marsh’s creepier books, and well done in that.
4.5 stars. Troy! And Ricky! It would've been five stars if Fox had been there, even with the sort of cult stuff at the end that I really don't care to read about.
I couldn't decide between one star or two. I finished it for the sake of my completism. The cult stuff is disgusting and stupid. The kidnapping is practically pointless. And the title is lame. Dang.
Amusing
