https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/215543.The_Lost_City_of_Faar
Complete 5 Golden Stars(will be updated after next re-read in 2019)one of my favourite books in this amazing series! <3more mysteries we solvedmore questions we asked-World building: ★★★★★/5beautiful territory, Cloral. this is one of my favourites!the technology, I want to live there!-Plot: ★★★★★/5full of surprises & excitements!beware!; if Author said something in the book, there's always a reason.(view spoiler)[he once said every territory has one traveler, but Earth had 2. guess what? feelz.... (hide spoiler)]-Characters: ★★★★★/5all awesome & funny :)-Written Style: ★★★★★/5LOVE IT!-Idea: ★★★★★/5
Yep still just as good, several re-reads later!
گزینه موجود خوبی برای پر کردن خستگی و ملال امتحان نفس گیر عطار...
The Lost City of Faar (Pendragon, #2), D.J. MacHaleاین کتاب، دومین جلد از سری روز نگاشته های بابی پندراگن 14 ساله است، که به همراه دایی پرس به دنیاها و زمان های ناشناخته سفر می کند، تا دنیا را نجات دهد، این بار یادداشت ها، در کره ی پهناوری به نام کلرال که سراسر آن را آب فراگرفته نگاشته می شوند تا به دست دوستان زمینی اش برسند.
بابی به دنبال سرزمین افسانه ای گمشده ی فار، میگردد.
که احتمالا یافتنش، تنها راه نجات کلرال و مردمش می باشد.
این دنیای خیال را چقدر دوست میدارم، منظورم این کتاب نیست، هر کتاب فانتزی مرا می رباید

دومين جلد از كتاب هاي بابي پندراگنه كه در قلمروي كلرال اتفاق ميوفته.دومين باريه كه دارم اين مجموعه رو ميخونم و به نظر من كلرال هيجان انگيز ترين قلمرو هستش.جدا از فانتزي بودن كتاب حس صميميت بسياري از متن برداشته ميشه و توصيفات كتاب به قدري قوي است كه ميتوان تصوير واضحي از قلمرو هاي مختلف داشت.
In this case, there are multiple Travelers – Bobby Pendragon, his Uncle Press, and their friend Spador (which I constantly keep reading as Spider).
However, as the story unravels it becomes clear, and it is up to Bobby, Press, and Spador to stop Saint Dane and his minions (every evil villain needs minions, right?).
Unfortunately Saint Dane is more of a minor character, a write-in if you will, than a part of the central plot.Throughout the story (both the first book and this one) the main issue I have is that Bobby is only 14 – yet sometimes he talks and thinks as if he is much older.
Pendragon: The Lost City of FarrBy: DJ MacHaleA Book Review By: Chase Pixley Prepare for another surprising and dramatic journey through Halla with Bobby Pendragon! The second book in the series tells about what happens after Bobby’s win over Saint Dane on the territory of Denduron. “Malos” (AKA Saint Dane) escaped to a territory called Cloral. This oceanic territory has no land and is the home of Vo Spader, an Aquaneer (think life guard/police officer) and traveler. There is only one problem th
Pendragon: The Lost City of FarrBy: DJ MacHaleA Book Review By: Chase Pixley	Prepare for another surprising and dramatic journey through Halla with Bobby Pendragon!
The second book in the series tells about what happens after Bobby’s win over Saint Dane on the territory of Denduron.
“Malos” (AKA Saint Dane) escaped to a territory called Cloral.
This oceanic territory has no land and is the home of Vo Spader, an Aquaneer (think life guard/police officer) and traveler.
There is only one problem though: Spader doesn’t know who he really is.
This book 100% deserves 5 out of 5 stars.
It's like training wheels!Example, under a spoiler cut: (view spoiler)[When Spader (totally guessing at spelling because I listened to the audiobook) returns to Faar after going to find Wu Yenza, I knew she had taken the initiative to go for help.
In an adult level novel, that wouldn't have needed to happen - anyone who didn't make the leap when she was missing would have made it when they all showed up, but it is explained very clearly.
Aghhhhh yet another amazing book that my boyfriend told me to read. No surprise with how amazing the first book was, but aghhh it was absolutely amazing.I loved the world in this one so much, knowing that all the land is gone and there's freaking floating cities and a myth come to life and it was amazing.MacHale introduces another amazing supporting character and I just absolutely loved that they're all so unique and that all the worlds have been so intricate. I'm so excited to keep reading this series.
Right in the kokoro.
Pendragon: The Lost City of Faar The Lost City of Faar continues from The Merchant of Death where Bobby Pendragon travels to Cloral in search of his nemesis Saint Dane. But in doing so, risking his life. He faces challenges he hasn’t faced before and overall puts you on a roller coaster of emotions and you can almost never guess what’s coming next.
I think one of the reasons I got bored was that MacHale really prefers to tell than show.
But it does get boring to read.He also skips some scenes that I think really should be included, passing over them in a couple of sentences instead.
Because if it actually happens in real life, I'll withdraw my objection, but as it stands, it is uncomfortably close to the "a credit to your sex" line of thinking, and I really wish MacHale would quite mentioning it.And finally, every time they mention that Mark and Courtney live in Stony Brook, Conneticut, I giggle and can't take the next couple of pages seriously because the Baby-Sitters Club was from Stoneybrook, Conneticut, which is just a little too close for my brain.
While they were there,Bobby met Spader in Cloral,Uncle Press`s friend that they`ve been in a long time.Spader learned that he`s a Traveler after his father`s death.On second earth, Mark was tired of Andy bullying him and telling him to bring the Journals because he found out during school night and lying to Courtney.At the end, when Bobby saw his uncle`s death while trying to save Spader from Saint Dane which in case went to Veelox and they went there,that is my at least favorite part of the book when Uncle Press died.My recommendation for this book is to read it because it`s full of adventure,fantasy,action,snappy dialogue and cool.This book is full of journals that Bobby wrote for his friends and he shares this for us to read from him.So my opinion for this book is awsome because I`m reading the series of Pendragon.This book review is for teenagers to read that wants to read this series or have already read this,but for those who didn`t read it then I recommend you read this book of series that I`m reading.
This book is the second in the series about Bobby Pendragon, who is a "Traveler" that goes to different territories (basically other worlds) and saves them from the brink of disaster.
I love hearing about all the adventures Bobby goes on and the other worlds.
He writes down all his adventures and sends his journals to his two friends, Mark and Courtney to read.
His whole storyline revolves around a bully finding ONE PAGE of Bobby's journal, and blackmailing Mark into letting him read the rest by saying he'd go to the police with the INFORMATION he has on journals.
Can Bobby – suburban basketball star and all-around nice guy – help rid the area of marauders, and locate the legendary lost land of Faar, which may hold the key to Cloral’s survival?My thoughts:I originally started reading this series to guage whether my son would like it.
The author really tries to keep kids interested with a lot of colourful and exciting adjectives, fun jokes, and interesting languges, all while there is some adventure (or disaster) going on.If you're like me and not worried that they are for younger readers, then it's a fun quick read.
The Lost City of Faar picks up with Bobby's second adventure thwarting the evil Saint Dane, whose goal is to destroy all worlds and all times.
In this book Bobby Pendragon has traveled to a slightly futaristic world where they have learned to concentrate water into solid objects.
He makes even more friends and has a great time until the fights that are inevitable come.In this book he finds a mystical underwater city that is the only land on the entire planet and learns the secrets of saving them from their underwater world and bringing them to the surface.
Bobby, and his uncle Press go to a territory called Cloral and meet up with Spader, a boy who was soon to be the next traveler of that territory, and try to find the turning point of the territory in which Saint Dane will do something and cause destruction.
The author likes to switch between what Bobby writes in his journals and what his friends, Courtney and Mark think about the journals and what they do every day, in the territory of Second Earth.
One part of the story I can relate to is when Spader becomes stubborn and doesn't listen to what Bobby or Press says and causes a tragic event to happen.
The Lost City of Faar is the second book in the Pendragon series.
It follows Bobby Pendragon, a time traveler of the mythical universe Halla.
After the events of the first book, Bobby returns home from Denduron, a world in Halla, to find his house, family, and records gone.
choice but to return to Halla with his uncle Press and help another world from the clutches of the evil St. Dane, also a traveler.
After Bobby and Press settle in Cloral, two platforms collide; Grallion, the feeder of Cloral, and Magorran, the goods-maker of Cloral.
I am now fully hooked on the Pendragon series.Bobby Pendragon, fourteen-year-old new and confused Traveler of space and time, is headed to his next territory.
This time, it's Cloral, a water territory where dry land is unheard of and the people have discovered all kinds of cool ways to use and overcome their aquatic surroundings.
And then there's the fact that the only way to stop Saint Dane may lie with a sunken city that is hardly more than a fairy-tale...Cool gadgets, fun and engaging characters, and a image-rich world of water, this book is all the proof I needed that I'm going into a great series.
Fantastic but annoying.Bobby talks way too much.
I also didn't enjoy Spader that much, and I felt like Bobby was telling me to like him because of what the character was supposed to be, rather than just showing me his awesomeness.
Which, he wasn't.
The world is a good idea, but it wasn't, I dunno, random enough.
I'd forgotten about the death at the end and it made me cry!
And then Bobby made me laugh with his new way of getting his journals to Mark and Courtney and his letter to them.I'm still conflicted.
There are parts I really really like.
Bobby is much more mature than he is in the first adventure and he seems to have accepted that he is a Traveler and "that is the way things are meant to be." The story was very well-paced, and I was actually bummed when the writer went back to discuss how things were going on Second Earth.
The only issue I have with the books so far is that in Bobby's journals, his vocabulary is way more than advanced than any 14-year-old I've ever met.
If you're reading this, you obviously read the first book and are interested in the second in the series.
It is about a kid named bobby, who is a traveler, going to a place called cloral.
On this place him and his uncle press meet a kid named Spandler.
The food of chloral is poisoned and Uncle press, bobby, and Spandler have to figure out how to save it.
Bobby , uncle press go to find it with Spandler.
But as soon as they get there saint dane attacks it.
Saint dane tries to get away and Spandler goes after him.
These are going to hit Spandler until uncle press jumps in front of them.
Uncle press is now dieing.
After Pendragon's feat on Denduron, Saint Dane travels to Cloral to attempt to destroy the territory.
Bobby and his uncle follow, upon ariving they are attacked by wild sharks, and saved by a fellow traveler.
Spader, Press, and Pendragon set out to find out Saint Dandes plot to destroy this planet totally covered by water.
Spader is going to another barge to reunite with his father, Pendragon and Press follow along, what they find is that the whole barge is empty.
Food is going to become scarce and war will break out for it, destroying the territory.
Can the travelers find the lost city of Faar?
I’m sure after I read the first book, I begged my mom to buy me the second and third (because at the time, books were still coming out!) and I sat down and read this one in two or three sittings.
I love the details D.J. McHale puts into his world building, from the transportation, to outfit choices, to set rules for being a “traveler” and how to act as a visitor for the current world, and the world’s creatures/enemies.Again, without spoiling anything (because I’d absolutely hate to spoil my fave series), this installment has some amazing twists that you’ll never see coming.
Even the second time I read them, mainly because I forgot all the details.
Picked up right where the last one left off. Still kinda like a Doctor Who mash up with something else. I haven't checked, but I hope there are too many more books in the series than what I already have 'cuz I might have to read them at least once.
ساعت 5 صبح تموم شد:دیهمممم صحبت خاصی ندارم! فقط اون تیکه ی 1937 ـش خیلی جالب بود! من حدس زدم که زمین اول همین جوری بی دلیل زمین اول نشده!من یه حدسی دارم. که اگه نخوندین جلد دو رو اسپویل میشه!(view spoiler)[حدسمم اینه که مشکلی نداره اگه وسایل زمین سوم رو ببری تو زمین دوم... چون یکین تقریبا! فقط زمان ها مشکل داره دیگه:/برای همین بود پرس این چیزا رو داشت:/ نه؟ (hide spoiler)]
Great pre-teen to teen series. I wouldn't be surprised if the author was Mormon. It's about this kid who's Uncle is a traveler and takes him to another world to save it from the St. Dane who is hell bent on making war on each of the planets. Each book takes place on a different planet. It's very fun and entertaining. All about sticking to your values to achieve good.
Reread 2016-----------This one has always been one of my favorites in the series simply because I love the Territory of Cloral and I enjoy the introduction of the newest traveler, Spader. The ending of this always kills me but it's such a good story. Can't wait to get on with the series!
Very interesting, nice plot twist at the end. NOOOOOOO! not Uncle press. WWHHHHYYYYYYYYYYYYYYYYYYYYYYYYYYYYY!
