https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/9900554-the-chestermarke-instinct
It is set in a little rural village called Scarnham, which has a moor out the back, and there’s some Yorkshire speech by some of the working class characters – it’s not ‘the other’ but rather ‘t’other’.
But it has such charm from a bygone time and style of mystery writing, that it’s the kind of cosy story that you can just curl up with and forget about the real horrible nature of modern life for an hour or two.As with a lot of these books women play a minor role.
S. Fletcher that I have read.
A young assistant bank manager hates his boring job at a little town in rural England, and despises the unlikable bank owners.
But then things get interesting: the bank manager, formerly considered totally honest, disappears, along with many of the bank securities, mortgages, gold, and the wildly valuable jewels belonging to the Duchess.
The manager's wealthy niece arrives, an assertive and dynamic young woman, and gets the police and detectives moving on the case.
He is identified, and seems somehow to be connected with the bank manager's disappearance.
An enjoyable read.
Good classic mystery.
A missing bank manager is thought to just be late coming back on the train, but he never shows up.
His niece arrives & insists on getting the best detective to come.
The police, the niece, a bank assistant, the detective and an earl all join in to figure out what happened to the man as well as some missing securities & jewelry.
Add the complication of a dead body of another man & you have a good mystery.
You kind of get suspicious of who might have been involved early in the story, but follow it through to the solution, there are some surprises.
Another preWW2 mystery. A bank manager in a small English town goes missing, as do jewels and securities. Good story with action and pacing plus an interesting puzzle. My main criticism is the characterization: I didn't end up feeling particularly attached to any character or convinced of the detective's abilities. Also (minor issue), the author mentions early in the novel that the old town is full of hidden passages--disappointing that nothing comes if this.
This one was quite dark for Fletcher - money lenders, kidnap, torture - as well as the usual array of characters with the 'whip hand'. It was a fun page turner of a murder mystery all the same though the ending, as usual, felt a little rushed.
What is the Chestermarke instinct? Keep your eye on the main chance? Don't let anything or anyone get in your way? They're sleek and sneaky scoundrels to be sure. For the most part this is a decent read, even if it just stops dead, leaving a fair number of unresolved issues hanging after the big explosive moment. It's startlingly abrupt, even for Fletcher.
I loved the book from beginning to end. I'll definitely be reading more free books by this author.
Love this audiobook. It's free in eBook and audio form at:Librivox.org and Gutenberg.org
This was one of the better Fletchers. None of them, including this one, are what anyone would consider great kiterature, but they are oh so good for a lazy afternoon.
Have to come back to this one some other time.
I enjoy mysteries and thought this was particularly good.
Another great who-done-it by Fletcher
