https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/155712.Mrs_Mike
By dog sled.So far this sounds like a romance, but the heart of the story is Kathy's life experiences in northern Canada in the early 1900s, where civilization and doctors are far away, natural disasters and plagues can wipe out families, childbirth and childhood are fraught with danger, and people need to rely on each other.
This novel is set a hundred years and was written almost 70 years ago, and these stories are not told in a PC way, at all, but underlying that is a deep respect that Kathy and Mike have for the native people and their way of life.
Mrs. Mike is my favorite book.A coming of age story set in the Canadian North in the year 1907, Katherine Mary O'Fallon, a young woman of 16, goes to live with her uncle somewhere north of Calgary as treatment for her pleurisy.
I rarely re-read a book, but I believe I've read Mrs. Mike five times now.
Each time, my stomach swoons when Kathy and Mike fall in love, I laugh when Kathy covers her daughter and Mike spanks Kathy instead, I cry when the unimaginable happens and I sigh as I close the book, thinking the line at the very end is one of the best ever written.Another reason I love this book is that it's based on a real woman's life who the authors met before writing the book.
I spent the entire afternoon reading about the life of Mary Katherine O'Fallon Flannigan.
Their life is hard at times, but Katherine learns to love Mike, the native people they serve, and the wilderness with all her heart.
I have tried several times to look up information about Mary Katherine O'Fallon (Flannigan) or to find photos/information about Mike or Katherine online.
Then the Freedmans sold the movie rights to the book and a film version starring Dick Powell was released in 1949.
This time, I listened to the audiobook version of Mrs. Mike.
It's hard to avoid being schmaltzy; hard to stay away from corny lines or disintegrate into torrid tales of heaving bosoms and leopard print loin cloths.And so, the first thing I want to say about Mrs. Mike is.
To me, all of the other characters suffered somewhat from their one-dimensional, less formed states, but the protagonist had such personality and voice, she mostly made up for it.There's tragedy, too, and I wasn't expecting it, but somehow, it adds to the credibility of the bonds that this extraordinary couple share.Lovely lines are peppered throughout, but here were two of my favorites:.
Kate gets to Canada and is told there aren't a lot of women up there because they are "too soft for this land".
They are married a week later and their honeymoon is a 700-mile trek across the frozen tundra that Mike worries will be too harsh for Kate because "This is no place for a women." She gets sick on the trek and Mike saves her.
Alas, the river and smoke are too much for her and Mike has to come save her AND the baby.
Maybe, as a women, I was just too soft for this book.
During her first year (few months) there she meets, falls in love with and marry Sgt. Mike Flannigan of the Northwest Mounted Police.This book is based on Katherine Mary's life with her husband in the early 1900's in (at the time) uncivilized Calgary, Hudson's Hope and Grouard Canada.
As Kathy follows Mike to Hudson's Hope where he is stationed, we go along with her, filled with excitement and trepidation as she leaves civilization to make a new home in the wilderness, where she is the only white woman.The reader must remember this book is set in the early 1900's and first published in 1947.
4.5 Stars! Just a good old fashioned sweet romance!An oldie but goodie. It was charming, heartbreaking, full of sacrifice and struggles, and a couple devoted to each other through it all! Who wouldn't fall in love with this?!
See section below, from wiki via answers, with citations at link: http://www.answers.com/topic/katherin..."According to Mrs. Mike, a fictionalized account of her life published in 1947...the Flannigans' two children die of diphtheria, and it ends with the couple adopting three children.
Based on a five-page outline, extended interviews and their own research, they wrote a novel based on Flannigan's story.[5][7] Mrs. Mike was published in 1947 and became a critical and popular success, with 27 non-US editions.[4] A movie version, starring Evelyn Keyes as Katherine Mary and Dick Powell as Mike, was released in 1949.[8] Flannigan sued the movie producers and authors for $25,000; the suit was dismissed because she had a legal claim only against the authors, not the producers.[9]Flannigan then wrote The Faith of Mrs. Kelleen, which was set in 1880s Ireland and based on the story of her great-aunt." (hide spoiler)]**********As for the book itself, I've been through the fire with this one.
Did you know that mosquitoes are SO bad in the far north that people can DIE from them?
Me neither.Did you know that if you're trapped in a forest fire you should find the widest part of a river and stay there, but don't ever hide in a well or basement?
These are just some of the tidbits to be found in "Mrs. Mike".When I first started reading it I thought it would be kind of like "Little House On The Prairie" for grown ups.
Well this is the story of one woman who did just that and did it well.CONTENT:SEX: NoneLANGUAGE: very mild cussingDRUG USE/SMOKING/DRINKING: One character gets drunk.
It’s a very different world from the big city life she is used to, but she finds friendship and love, and eventually marries the local Sergeant of the Canadian Mounted Police, Mike Flannigan.
This is a novel, but it is based on the real life story of Katherine Mary O’Fallon.
I really came to love Kathy from the brash teenager, rushing headlong into adventure, and refusing to let anyone tell her anything to the maturing young woman who gains an understanding of and appreciation for the native culture, becomes a mother and faces loss.
Kirsten Potter does a wonderful job narrating the audiobook.
I’m definitely in the minority here, I wasn’t “wowed” and I really wanted to love this one. It was okay I had spurts of interest here and there.
It is a story of Katherine Mary O'Fallon who falls in love with a Canadian Mounty and leaves her comfortable home in Boston for the rugged, dangerous Canadian wilderness.
I love the pace of the book...it moves through her years quickly highlighting important events, but leaving me overall with beautiful images and admiration for her spirit and courage.
But I knew that I had to know it and understand it, and even love it as Mike did.
A lot of love stories end when the couple get married - as if that is the climax of their story...but I love that in this book - it is only the beginning.
(The earlier chapters are set in Calgary, where the couple meet.) Love is at the heart of the story, but it's not a commercial "romance;" it doesn't end with the courtship and wedding, but instead focuses mainly on the story of the developing and growing marriage --and in the Realist tradition from which the Freedmans write, genuine love doesn't insulate a couple from the challenges and tragedies of life.Indeed, tragedy and sorrow are not uncommon ingredients of this story, though happy events and humor play their role, too.
Mrs. Mike is one such historical fiction title.
Katherine Mary O’Fallon is a 16-year-old Irish gal sent from Boston to live with her uncle in Alberta, Canada with the hopes that the environment will help her heal from pleurisy.
They are both smitten with each other and wed in time for her to join him at his new duty station of Hudson’s Hope.While this title is a love story, it also showcases how hard of a life those living in western Canada experienced.
I now know that there are subsequent titles in the Mrs. Mike series and can't wait to read them.
I read this story in *humph-humph..clears throat* 1984, in Grade 9 English. I later found it in our local libraries 'give-away' bin. My copy is the original 1947 publication, and has been re-bound and taped up too many times.My youngest daughter has since read it, and she too has fallen in love with it as well.This book is such a wonderful treasure that I hold dear to my heart.
I don't bloody well care if the Indian woman was brainwashed into doing it out of misplaced notions of loyalty or love.You cannot be a human being and just watch another person being debased in this fashion.No matter how much you may commiserate with a man's past sorrows you cannot sit in the same room where another woman,foolish enough to fall for him, sits silent and bleeding from a knife wound he just carelessly inflicted.Ignoring the ridiculous manner in which our hero dismissed women as "unpredictable " or the even more ludicrous reaction his words elicited from her, I will never use " love" to describe his feelings for her.There is a bizarre idea that has taken root in common psyche that women like having a gruff,charming,honest Abe kind of fellow who brushes aside our petty,niggling qualms as childish twaddle while he takes charge,kisses us silly and leads us along the right path.
This is the best book I have ever read about life in Canada.
Every thing came alive, jumped out of the pages and enveloped me into their world.
I half wish I could go and see where they all lived.
But, there is a darkness that is not entirely visible in the first half.
Mrs. Mike was such a lovable character.
A few times I found things so funny I nearly died laughing.
It wasn't gory but, I just can't stand reading about teeth, they make me feel sick to my stomach.
I would still highly recommend this lovely story of Mrs. Mike.
I'm a fan of stories with a pioneering spirit, and the harsh climate and living conditions of the north Canadian wilderness showed the growth and strength of the people who live there. The romance at the beginning was sweet, even though Katherine is young and somewhat immature, and I enjoyed seeing her and Mike grow closer together throughout their marriage and the trials they faced. Her relationships with the Native people in the community brought depth and emotion to the story.
This book is a real gem, which I very much enjoyed....It's a story of triumph over unimaginable hardship and heartbreaking tragedy, set in Alaska during the days of its first settlers.With unforgettable characters, atmospheric settings, lots of historical information about the time in which it's set, plus a wonderful love story, it's a book I'm so happy to have discovered.
This book was listed on a "gentle read" list for Young Adults.
Unless they consider it gentle because there are no sex scenes.
The original publication date was 1948 and the book is about a young woman, Kathy, who leaves Boston for northern Canada to fight her illness of pleurisy.
(My first issue with the book is how young she is when she gets married.) The territory they live in is uncharted and they are living both easily & uneasily with a neighboring tribe.
I just was so thrown that this was considered a "gentle read".
Such a hard and beautiful place, the North, with such tough, caring and dignified people.Kathy's trip back to Boston was brilliant; that scene where she knocks on a mansion door in Beacon Hill and is refused a glass of water--and then she remembers all the empty trappers cabins up North stocked with wood and provisions and never locked so that any stranger can come in, take shelter and be warm and fed.
I was going to give this a 3.5 but will leave it at 4 as the ending brought it up for me.
The story is rife with tragedy which makes it a bit depressing.
I wonder if the two authors wrote different portions of the book?
I did not know this was based on a true story till I was almost finished and that brings it up for me too.
I would love to know Kathy.
This book has everything I look for.
Historical, foreign adventure, a bit of romance...
This book is set in the Canadian wilderness when small pox and diphtheria were both still problems among the Indian nations in that area. It wreaked havoc on everyone. There were also other problems associated with wilderness living. This all sounds like things that I love in historical fiction. But sadly, this was just okay for me. I loved the first 15 minutes. I thought for sure this was going to be 5 stars. But it was in a steady decline for the rest of the time.
This is my favorite book of all times. I wish I could find it in ebook form. I would never take it off my kindle, iPad or iphine
And that’s when the book started trudging along for me.Each chapter became its own separate vignette, some sorrowful story (mostly unrelated to the others before it) not directly involving Kathy but her Native neighbors in the village.
All the seemingly random, sad chapters in the middle of the book (the ones I had trudged through) were woven beautifully into the story.
The ending was one of the sweetest (well, a touch bittersweet, I suppose) I’d ever read.Now I can’t stop thinking of the gems of wisdom woven throughout this book.
Kathy moves from Boston and a life of comfort to Canada to live with her uncle because of her health issues.
You would not think there was the strength in them to make such a life, dig it out of nothing."Kathy returns to Boston for a time.
Her health issues had sent her away, and while she was still watched over in Canada because she was delicate, she realized in Boston around her family that she was uncommonly strong compared to the other women at home.
In returning, she realizes why she and Constance are different.
I have read this book about ten times since I was a little girl, it was the first book my mom ever recommended to me, so maybe that's a big part of why I love it so much.
I'm sure everyone around me thought I was a nutcase, but I didn't care.A few years ago, my mom gave me a brand new edition as a gift, knowing how much I had loved it.
I'm sure years down the road, the swelled pages and binding will make this book even more endearing to me.Anyway, this is a simple, touching, beautiful story...READ IT!
I read this book when I was younger, and again this year. Some books don't stand the test of time, but this one did. I loved the adventures experienced by this young girl when she married a Mountie, and suffered along with her when the northern wilderness almost broke her spirit and her marriage. It's one of those novels that stay with you forever.
Will the love she has forged with Mike be permanent, even with the expectation that the future will hold even more tragedy?Written in 1947, some of the issues are startlingly modern.
The face in the glass was my mother's, younger and stronger perhaps, but not at all like that of the skinny child who had come to Calgary for her pleurisy.""'You're beautiful,' Mike said.
'Oh-Be-Joyful was part of the pattern of your life, and things like that don't just stop.
Things from her life will come into yours, into ours, as long as we live.'"
A lot of times when I read books written pre 1960, I have to work to keep my attention on the page.
But this was a gripping book that kept me reading and reading.It’s based on the true story of Katherine who, in 1907 at the age of 16 moved from Boston to Alberta to live with her uncle.
Once there, she meets Mike, a Mountie and they marry in short order.
They move to the Northwest Territories where Mike is posted.There, they encounter a lot of winter (my number one reason for not marrying a Mountie.) They also encounter illness, isolation and crime.
