https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/956597.Life_with_a_Star
I don’t know another like it.“ I concur with this praise.Jiri Weil died in 1959 from leukemia.During the occupation of Czechoslovakia the Nazis made the Jewish Religious Community of Prague, the self-governing administrative body for all persons considered to be Jews according to the Nuremberg racial laws.
It is never mentioned in which city or country he lives, or in which year we are, but the reader knows the story is set in Prague during the Nazi occupation.Through Joseph’s experiences, the reader learns how it must have been to live as a Jew during the Nazi occupation, during which every aspect of his life was being controlled and restricted, and with the constant fear to be summoned for the transports.
The author with his astonishing and simplistic narrative, has truly captured the essence of the vilest horrors befalling the Jewish race at the hands of the merciless, murderous, and TOTALLY immoral Nazis', who incidentally are emotively only referred to as THEM or THEY etc in the narrative.
I became totally engrossed in the protagonist's (hopeless) plight at the hands of a regime HELL-BENT on wiping out THE entire Jewish population of Europe, and beyond if they could...
The RACIST tragedy of this novel could befall ANY particular 'race' or 'group' at any time in our volatile mad world - but MUST never be allowed to EVER, EVER happen again!!

Read in one go. A very unusual book, which, I suppose, could offend some. Written in 1948 or 49, so well before people had a consensus of how the Holocaust should be written about. The main hero is a bit like Kafkian K., but then finds new consciousness through meeting Materna, his "commissar" (a bit of Socialist Realism there). A simple but striking style. Clearly based on his own experiences, but also clearly not autobiographical, as Weil himself was an amazing character, and not like K. at all.
Intense, unrelenting, gut wrenching and disturbing. An honest portrayal of life lived under the harsh and terrifying realities of a society in the grip of fascism told through the point of view of one man.
But I think, in the final analysis, this circular dreariness is to Weil’s credit – nothing I have read before comes so close to the lived experience of the Nazi occupation, as it was felt by countless Jews in the cities of east Europe.
Life itself was leaden and lugubrious if you were a Jew in wartime Prague under the Nazis, and Weil renders it in true colours.
As for Josef, so for the readers – these interludes provide the only relief, the only reminder of the ordinariness of life in the city before the Nazis arrived.
Josef lives on the margins of the city – in nearly every way – physically, his house is on the outskirts of town, far from the ghetto that is organisational centre of life; socially, as a mediocre bank clerk he seemed to have no future to speak of in pre-war life and even less under occupation; corporeally, he is weak and frail, not suited to physical labour and therefore seemingly destined to transportation and a likely early death.In this oppressively grim world Josef takes pleasure in the little things – the stray cat that seems to adopt him, the fate of an onion that he tries to give to his friend who has been summoned for transportation, the day he meets a railway worker who encourages him to cut off his star and travel as a non-Jew, the pleasure of lying in the grass in the open field near his house, or the fact that he is so poor that when he is called up for transportation ‘they’ (as the Germans are always called) will get nothing but a worthless coffee table from his house.

Prague, Czeckoslovakia...a banker lives in a shell of a house, burning furniture to keep warm and to prevent non- Jews from taking it from him when they want.
Struggling to find food to eat.
Struggling to report to registration stations.
I found it gloomy and profoundly sad in the simple way survival is decribed.
Written as a day-to-day account of a rather dull banker whose life has been narrowed by edict upon new edict.
From the confiscation of property to losing careers to the unending transports east, the end seems inevitable for the former banker and his friends.
It is much too sad.
With humor and his common sense, a middle class Prague Jew tries to survive during the Nazi occupation of his city, a daunting task in the midst of the world of absurdities that 'they' (his unnamed oppresors) keep coming up with every single day. A beautiful little novel that manages to convey the psychological horror of the Holocaust without ever mentioning its perpetrators or their worst deeds, but focusing on one man's struggle to survive and, even more important to him, to preserve his humanity.
In Life with a Star, a very ordinary Jewish man, the former bank clerk Josef Roubick, struggles to survive the Nazi occupation of Prague. Living in hiding, he finds his life increasingly circumscribed and imperiled by the increasing punitive and arbitrary edicts handed down by the German occupiers. Life with a Star is a powerful, moving, sometimes darkly comic novel that I recommend very highly.
Great book. Beautifully written and not predictable. This is a story of a single Jewish man and his trials as he tries to survive in Czechoslovakia during WWII. It is a very different view of the struggle... the hardships seem more real, the hunger is palpable. There is an odd hopefulness along with a frustration for the fact that the tragedy was allowed to happen at all. How do you survive such an ordeal? Read this book!
"if there were no hope", I said, "we would probably fight","and people always think there's hope, even they're standing over an open grave" 200 pages of hope even if all around tell you to die.very very good book, but I think, will be interting for people who have read about Holocaust before.
One of the most haunting books I have ever read--about the Holocaust or anything else.
Prachtig boek. Onderkoelde stijl, vaak ironisch of cynisch gekleurd. Het woord Jood wordt zelden gebruikt.
Highly recommended , this is an incredible book and one of the most haunting tales of the brutal Nazi terror and unrelenting evil.
Ante la vileza más abyecta, dignidad.Ante la omnipresencia de la Muerte y el miedo, siempre queda un resquicio por dónde se cuela la vida y surge la libertad.la única edición publicada en español no hace justicia a la calidad que se merece este libro excepcional con errores de formato.
In allerlei straten mag hij niet komen, in de tram alleen zitten als het niet druk is en allerlei spullen moeten ingeleverd worden.
We zouden niet overal aan moeten wennen’ en ‘ik wist het al, maar wilde er niet mee instemmen, dat bijna iedereen diegenen gelijk gaf die zich bij de wetten van die lui neerlegden, niet alleen door op hun bevel in het circus op te treden en bij het plunderen als handlanger te fungeren -…- Misschien geloofden zij al dat die lui het gelijk aan hun kant hadden wanneer zij hen naar de vestingstad stuurden, een wisse dood tegemoet, misschien vervloekten zij hen alleen nog maar uit machteloze woede.
Ja, een bijzonder boek ondanks de verschrikking die beschreven wordt, met een soort van lichte toon en de verbazing en verwondering die het uitstraalt!
One of my professors assigned Life with a Star for class and I dutifully went out and purchased a used copy.
I wanted to like it but I just didn't.Jiri Weil uses his experiences hiding from the Nazi's to write this novel about Josef Roubicek the ill-fated former bank clerk.
Weil chooses to focus on the everyday life of Jews that were just hoping they didn't get called for a trip to the death camps.It is this focus on the mundane that blew it for me.
I understand that life was tedious and full of despair during the Nazi occupation of Europe.
Jiri Weil kiest voor naïeve distantie.
Hij ondergaat alle onzinnige regels en verboden op een lijdzame manier en probeert te overleven door te onthechten en af en toe weg te vluchten in een droom-relatie, een verre echo van iets dat ooit werkelijkheid was.
Pas als de werkelijkheid al te zeer botst met deze manier van omgaan met de situatie, neemt hij het heft in eigen hand.
Door helemaal niemand meer te zijn, kan hij leven.
Beetje pech voor deze vertelstijl is dat het zoveel navolging kreeg.
Niet eerlijk, want Jiri Weil schreef dit boek al in 1949.
I do not think this is a "Holocaust novel" regarding the genre, because the narration is so much removed from the sphere of reality and history.
It is very faithful to history, but the perspective is removed from reality in order to point out the absurdity of the world in which human beings became numbers, moral deeds became immoral and sins became behavioral norms.
For instance the word "Jew" appears only once and the word "Nazi" not even once, so we get the feeling that this whole story is set in another galaxy, even though we know that unfotrunately it is history, not a fictitious nightmare.
Czech author Jiri Weil is mostly known for two excellent Holocaust novels, Life with a Star and Mendelssohn is on the Roof.
While the latter is a pastiche of narratives taken from various perspectives, Jew and non Jew, Life with a Star has a single Jewish narrator, Josef Roubicek, and thus is more of a conventional novel.
They both approach the Holocaust from a close distance - near to the death camps and ghettos, not directly from within them.
And both novels, despite their sad and death obsessed themes, also ultimately play tribute to survival and life which is the more powerful force.
In the book Life with a Star, by Jiri Weil, no one is safe and no where is safe.
The character, Josef, lives in Nazi occupied Prague.
Josef lives a peaceful life with his lover Ruzena on the outskirts of Prague.
When the Nazis come they are forced to live and be treated like animals.
Josef has dreams of death and horror some nights and they reflect his current situation.
I liked when I read about him burning his house down to stage his death.
I liked the book, but it was a hard read.
You would think it would be one of the simplest things wearing a yellow star, with a single word in their language in the middle of it.
You have to wear it above your heart - always.
Together with the endless flow of decrees and the transports and the lack of food and the continual fear it makes it hard to know what to do.
Josef talks to his lover Ruzena, but he could not do as she advised.
It is only later that he realises that it was the only thing to do.
But first he has to overcome the fear of death...
A great work of art and and great reflection on the human condition; there are sentences in this book that belong in every anthology of anti-totalitarian fiction. I thought it was absolutely brilliant: the way it is narrated, with calls to non present people; the way the Nazi invaders are always there but not really there ("they" is what they are called); the gradual transformation of the main character, his humanity, his love for animals... It makes an excellent reading and offers many opportunities for reflection.
A deceptively simply story about living as a Jew in Nazi-occupied Czechoslovakia. Narrator Josef Roubicek stitches the star to his jacket and follows the rules that are meant to make him an outsider but practices small acts of resistance: adopting a stray cat, burning all his belongings so they won't be confiscated when he is eventually transported to a camp. Author Jiří Weil lampoons the Gestapo's bureaucracy and tells a tender story of survival and hope against a horrific historic backdrop.
this book is beautiful and horrifying all at once. I've never read a book so perfect in its ability to determine the speed and emphasis by matching plot and diction so exactly. it is purposefully slow-moving as we follow Josef through his stages of grief living as a Jewish man in Nazi-occupied Prague. you hear his thoughts, his panic, his bravery, his obsessions. deeply deeply deeply moving and highly recommended.
Jiri writes a moving account of the deportation process. The writing is simple, stark and confronting about a subject difficult to fully comprehend in its callousness. Acknowledging there was Jewish resistance to the Nazi plans, the predominantly passive and cooperative approach to the deportation process, as portrayed in this account, is difficult to understand as a reader. I suppose this is just a case of hindsight is sharper than foresight.
"Mezi starci a neduživci ztrácela i smrt svůj lesk. Lpěli na životě, nemohli jej však udržet svýma nemohoucíma rukama. Nemluvili nikdy o ní, báli se vyřknout i její jméno. Ti, kdož seděli dříve u kamen, než odešli na východ a do pevnostního města, vyslovovali její jméno často, s pochybnostmi, s marným výsměchem nebo s lítostí. Avšak tito lidé o ní nikdy nemluvili. Nemluvil jsem o ní ani já. Byl jsem s ní vyrovnán, nepatřil jsem k jejím poddaným."
Poignant fictionalized depiction of life as a Jew under the Nazi terror, in Prague. Weil was no stranger to this reality, as Philip Roth explains in a foreword. Provokes me to finally track down Jerzy Koszinski's Painted Bird, another "novel," and admittedly one whose authenticity has been challenged but that, in the hands of a master storyteller, stands as another key fictional narrative about life as the persecuted during the Nazi era.
