https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/46987.The_Hearing_Trumpet
Leonora Carrington died only a month and a half ago at the age of 94, a surrealist and remarkable traveler across the 20th century.
It's all terribly entertaining, our protagonists are remarkably engaging, considering, and there seems to be quite a bit of social observation strung throughout -- played mostly for humor, but there nonetheless.

Her comments on feminist themes in the book, including attitudes towards older women, were similarly on point.
I was distressed by the narrative's victimisation of a trans woman and her misgendering, although I noticed that the deadnaming applied to her was partially reversed, hinting at a trajectory towards trans acceptance (I have to hope so anyway, since the 70s was a pretty dodgy decade for cis feminist attitudes to trans* issues)I found this an easy read despite the ornate language and elaborate, frenetic creativity especially on the part of Marian's friend Carmella.
Here's the cover of the 1977 Pocket Books mass-market I'm reading (192 pages). Digging the hell out of it so far. (Full review to come, eventually)
I don't know where to begin describing this. I feel that knowing anything going in might spoil the craziness of this book. It is well-written, imaginative, and about old ladies.
This did not make me look forward to The Hearing Trumpet itself - it made me glad the book was short - but it was interesting to have my attention drawn to the ideas about modernity and religion while in the middle of Sarah Moss' Ghost Wall, which includes the idea that modernity is better for women, and soon after reading a friend's review - of yet another book - which pointed out the contradictions between feminisms.) By the end of the book, I thought there were topics the introduction had unjustly neglected, but more of that later.
(And like the author, she is an English expat in Mexico.) In the early part of the novel, it reads like a really good children's book, with delightful lines like "people under seventy and over seven are very unreliable if they are not cats" on nearly every page.
With her newly enhanced hearing she is able to overhear that her family plans to ship her off to a home for old women.The old ladies' home is a bizarre affair, run in Draconian fashion by a married couple who belong to a cultish but ostensibly Christian religious sect.
Note: Coincidentally, I read this immediately after Barbara Comyn's Who Was Changed and Who Was Dead, another delightful novel featuring an elderly woman with an old-fashioned hearing trumpet.
A wonderful beginning quickly plateaued to a cruising altitude of banal and uninspired until the final couple of chapters, when Carrington seemed to shake out of her dithering reverie and started throwing her weight about: but the turgidity of phantasmagorias was simply not enough to save this book from the doldrums.Mirian Leatherby is 92 and a character: the first chapter had me in stitches: between her ‘gallant’ beard, the crazy concoctions she plots with her friend Carmella who steals the French yellow pages and writes letters to random recipients within, as well as plans to defect to Lapland, and even more hilarious, her unwelcome intrusions in her sons parlour where she recites fourteen stories about multicoloured parrots but forgets the ending of a mere six of them, I was constantly in mirth.Too quickly though Marian gets dispatched to a nursing home and things here become beyond tedious.
Carrington is perhaps best known because of her association with the Surrealist movement in Paris and her relationship with painter Max Ernst.
For this reason as well as the fact that she'd gone to Catholic boarding schools as a child (and was kicked out of one of them as a teen!), Carrington had a strong aversion to institutions which is reflected in The Hearing Trumpet.This is one of those rare books where I actually kept putting off reading to the end because I did not want the story to be over!
Bizarre and off the wall weird, this is a must read for lovers of very unusual stories. This will leave you breathless with its very odd style.
Of course, as the novel is written by a woman most famed for her surrealist paintings, it is no ordinary old people's home that Marian Leatherby goes to live in.
The ordinary world is then left behind, it seems to me, and Marian steps over the divide into the other world, as the story becomes increasingly surreal, including a very odd history of the fate of the Holy Grail, until it builds up to an Apocalyptic vision, like one of Leonora Carrington's paintings presented in words on the page.
People under seventy and over seven are very unreliable if they are not cats. Ninety-two-year-old Marian Leatherby has been unceremoniously parked in a peculiar institution by her spineless son Galahad and domineering daughter-in-law Muriel. Operated by the Well of Light Brotherhood and financed by the Bouncing Breakfast Cereals Co. (possibly a stand-in for Kellogg, whose Seventh-day Adventist founder John Harvey Kellogg was chief medical officer at a sanitarium), the institution more resembles
Ninety-two-year-old Marian Leatherby has been unceremoniously parked in a peculiar institution by her spineless son Galahad and domineering daughter-in-law Muriel.
Armed with her shiny new hearing trumpet, a gift from her dear friend Carmella, Marian embarks upon her new life at the institution with relative aplomb.
Characterized by Carrington's trademark irascible humor and dotted with surrealist tableau that could have been pulled directly from her paintings, The Hearing Trumpet is for the most part a rather lighthearted novel, reminiscent of Richard Brautigan's fiction.
Interesting post surrealist novel with heroic elderly women as protagonists. I really enjoyed this book and am on the lookout for more writing in this vein. There are far too few novels written about intrepid and cunning elderly ladies.
One never quite knows what they're going to do next.I would categorise The Hearing Trumpet as falling somewhere between magical realism and utterly fantastical; there are recognisable elements, but it often reads like what I imagine a strong drugs trip might do to one.
There were, rather strangely, echoes of Enid Blyton's The Magic Faraway Tree for me here; read it, and you'll understand why.
The Hearing Trumpet is perhaps the epitome of Surrealist literature, and I have never read anything quite like it; the closest I have come to date is probably the work of Scottish author Naomi Mitchison, who is undeservedly neglected.
The 92 year old narrator, Marian Leatherby, is an ingenious creation and the conversations she shares with her best friend Carmella are hilarious, brimming with drama, paranoia and affection.
Marian is abandoned by her family in an unorthodox retirement home where the most hypocritical are religious zealots and each inhabitant lives in an unusually shaped villa (a boot, an igloo, a toadstool, etc).
But the most powerful thing for me is the fact that, while to most people a 92-year old woman is fit for nothing and deserves her incarceration, Carrington makes the woman her hero- a forgetful heroine, yes, one who is a little slower to understand, but a heroine none the less.
(view spoiler)[Bettie's Books (hide spoiler)]
Maude Somers very kindly made me the present of this nice green wool, and I think it has a very pleasant springtime colour, like early chestnut leaves.”“I hope you don’t intend to wear it eventually?” said Georgina, ignoring my reproach.
“You would look like Noah after he was drowned in the flood.
Green is not your colour, you are far too green as it is.”“Surely you don’t expect me to look like a debutante?” I asked.
(view spoiler)[Although I found the central section about the mysterious Abbess a little too long, I have no other quibbles with this enchanting book.
What an incredibly quirky and entertaining ride this was. I’ve loved Leonora Carrington’s beautiful surreal art for awhile now, but this is the first book I’ve read by her. Carmella was such a fun character, and I thought the friendship between her and Marian was lovely. Great fun and laugh out loud funny in spots.
Carrington didn't just paint surrealism - she wrote it as well.For being such a short novel, it took me longer to read than I had expected.
It's not a perfect novel, but it's enjoyable - so long as you don't get caught up in the bizarreness of it all.Carrington's life is just as fascinating as her art/writing, and I wonder how much she took from her experience living in an asylum when she wrote this book.
They're certainly fascinating and add something to the text; I am just sad that Carrington hadn't done her own artwork which would have personalized the story even that much more.All in all this was fun; recommended to anyone interested in Leonora Carrington, surrealism, or just some bat-shit-craziness.

Stejně jako staří lidi totiž už i já po třicítce trpím stejnými neduhy - bolí mě záda, sex dělám maximálně tak v televizi, točí se mi hlava i když jsem střízlivý, chodím často kadit a někdy to nestihnu, hledám hodinu klíče, které mám v ruce a v neposlední řadě si už i začínám myslet, že kočky jsou příjemný stvoření.
Už i autorčiny obrazy jsou surrealistickou podkategorií, která mě necháva tak chladným, až jsem se nachladil - to jsem asi měl brát jako znamení.
The Hearing Trumpet opens with our narrator’s best friend, Carmilla, gifting her a trumpet which she suggests our narrator use to listen in on her family’s conversations.
Moving into the Institution brings a series of adventures and mysteries which become more and more bizarre as time passes.My favorite character of the book would have to be, hands down, Carmilla, Marian’s best friend.
In fact, almost all of the major characters of the book are painted with an incredible creative brush and the imagination explodes in little bits and pieces when it comes to this group of older women intending to spend their last days with joyful adventures.Though serious undertones run throughout the book, the wisps of humor in the seriousness of the ridiculous dialogue make this a delightful read.
There is a reference to Damien Hirst in Larraquy, and certainly the shock art has European inspiration (and perhaps a send up of envy of success on the part of the character) involved; Read’s protagonist imposes a European pastoral ideal government on his (unintentionally) private indigenous and Creole kingdom in the Andes in partial imitation of the slightly misguided, and now displaced, Jesuits; and Carrington imports Druids and assorted religious/demonic paraphernalia from European history and lore into her unnamed country, possibly Mexico, with an acknowledgment of Catholic impact on the Spanish empire.These books are full of common themes, but I’m going to skip an important one ( ‘what is art’) in favor of ‘identity,' to keep the length manageable.
Leonara Carrington is one of my favourite artists and this book captures her surreal and quirky soul. There are some great passages - what a wit! - and some nicely structured sentences with clever comic timing. As a whole novel, it tends to drag, the plot is sketchy and she even forgets about the hearing trumpet, a key object in the book, for long stretches. Carrington needed a ruthless editor. If all else fails, you can just enjoy the handful of her illustrations.
IntroductionNotes--The Hearing Trumpet
The Hearing Trumpet starts off as a light-heartedly humerous "batty old bag" kind of a story about a 92 year old woman, Marian Leatherby, and her rather unpleasant (or, at least, unsympathetic) family, who want to ship her off to a home for senile women, as they find her absent-minded wanderings something of an inconvenience and an embarrassment.Once arrived at the institution run by the Well of Light Brotherhood ("financed by a prominent American cereal company"), things take a darker and more unusual turn.
Grandioos fijn boek, waar alles mogelijk is. We maken kennis met de 92-jarige (zwaar hardhorende) Marian die samenleeft met haar zoon en schoondochter. Haar beste vriendin is Carmella en dankzij haar krijgt ze een 'Hearing Trumpet' waardoor ze eindelijk hoort wat er tegen haar gezegd wordt. Met alle gevolgen vandien... van een heel erg vreemd bejaardentehuis met sektarische inslag tot moord, ecologische rampen enz... absurd, grotesk, fantastisch, over the top en tegelijk heel fijn om te lezen.https://www.theparisreview.org/blog/2...
I loved the matter-of-fact style of storytelling, the bizarre ending, and all the characters. I would read an entire book of Carmella and Marian's schemes to break out of the institute.
She does not profess but merely speaks from the lessons of life.
The odd premise itself.
All artifacts & ideologies Carrington had either become acquainted with or immersed herself in throughout her artistically rich life.
The odd elixir becomes pungent.
Certainty crumbles & a wild new world emerges.
As if on the other side of the turn a new creature emerges from the cocoon of that transition.
The story wraps up rather oddly.
The world of Carrington is a very interesting place & I look forward to delving into more of her work & even her life.
A short and suitably strange novel by the surrealist painter, in which the 92-year-old narrator is packed off to a cultish retirement home by her awful family.
They say she's senile, but really she's just at right angles to the world, unable to get the hang of its peculiarities and rather proud of her beard, which she finds gallant.
Carrington was always sceptical of the sort of psychoanalytic or biographical reading this story could so easily attract, so let's just say that I'm glad her own old age would prove both more respected and less entwined with the end of the world.
