https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/124924.Wheels
Hailey takes the reader to Detroit,inside the auto industry in the early 1970s.My favourite part of the book deals with the relentless pressure of the assembly line.The story of Rollie Knight,the young black assembly line worker is compelling.The mafia,powerful trade unions,shady car dealers and Detroit executives are part of the cast of characters.This book is rich in drama and as is usual for Hailey,very well researched.
Автомобилостроенето е индустрия, която е показателна за могъществото на всяка държава - когато тази индустрия ти е работеща, това означава че се развиват десетки други отрасли, тясно свързани с автомобилостроенето, a това показва един затворен, гигантски технически работен цикъл, който генерира високоинтелектуална и доходоносна работа за населението.
Тоест, за всеки негов роман, Хейли е провеждал година и половина проучвания, половин година е планирал поект-книгата и година я е писал.Вярно е, че "Колела" излиза преди повече от 40 години, но въпреки това голяма част от проблемите тогава си остават и днес.
Is it helpful that Hailey researched the ins and outs of a car dealership in order to convey clearly the decisions and management that a fictional dealership's owner would make to achieve sales and solvency in a given month?
At one moment, the narrator postures progressive understanding of why individuals from a segment of the African American poor community might make decisions that white middle class folk deign bad.
On the whole, he describes the majority of his named African American characters as duplicitous, conniving and unsavory.
One that even hardcore Arthur Hailey fans, if such a thing exists, have forgotten that he wrote.
Scenarios rife with drama—the highly anticipated new car has a potentially fatal engineering flaw that can only be fixed by either redesigning the whole thing or by adding a crucial part that adds significantly to the cost of manufacturing each vehicle—were just kind of solved there and then, with no ongoing suspense.
(They added the part.)When you consider the complete overhaul that the American car industry underwent in the 1970s, anyone with an ounce of perspicacity would have seen it coming.
He seemed to see nothing but great things coming for Detroit in the 70s.
However, I am not much of a car person, and I thought it was going to be one of those impersonal stories that involved some corporate espionage kind of thing.
While i felt that some of the views on a couple of the above issues were still colonial, i guess it was new and revolutionary at the time they were written, and it is still relevant today.Those of you that are avoiding this book because you feel it is just about cars and automobile industry and the corruption in it, well, this one will surprise you.
Obviously, this book was way over my head when I initially read it at the ripe old age of 15!
And. It's a darned good thing my mother didn't know what I was reading!
I would have been grounded and the"righteous" lectures would have never ceased!
Those lectures were always "playing" anyway!
Though I'm uncertain the auto industry was "advancing" quite as fast as Hailey states; wishful thinking, perhaps?
I would love to think the criminal element in the auto factories was NOT as pervasive, and that the black ex- cons were not as trapped into a life of crime...but I can imagine there wasn't much exaggeration...
Even though this book was written back in the late 60's/early 70's it is amazing how much of the issues with the car industry still exist today.
Pollution and safety are still forefront on all consumers' minds as they purchase that beautiful gas hog.
Even the new 'ugly is beautiful' can still be seen throughout the parking lots in America.
Our vehicles are more fuel efficient and we now have people waiting in line for hybrids.
I believe we are not far from the hydrogen vehicle, but we must accept that this may take us another 30 years.
This was my first Arthur Hailey novel, one that was lying around the house when I was 15.
It was not among the first grown up novels that I read, but it was one of the relatively few not set in the distant past.
Even 30 years later it still has relevance.The thing about Hailey is that all of his novels are readable, which sounds a bit trite I know, but it fits.
I gave this one a five star more for nostalgia than anything, but I did love it all three of the times I read it.
“Wheels” as the name suggests does the same for automobile industry specifically dealing with the mass production of cars and how it affects the industry as well as people who live in these cities.I remember a sub-plot where a dealer is trying sell a car and how he uses his convincing powers, acting, fake calls to his bosses to sell a car.
He goes and buys whatever is possible without realizing that he will never be able to pay it back.There were so many of such interesting sub-plots in the book and all of these open your eyes about some aspect of social situation and industry.
I am a lifelong "Car Guy". Author Arthur Hailey captures the American Auto Industry in the late 60s, early 70s in the hustle and blue collar town of Detroit, Michigan. All the nuiances, drama, of disigning a car, bringing it into production, approval from the auto company's "fat cats", is all here. This book is well written. My Hailey brings all of the characters to life in "WHEELS", many you will never forget. A true old fashioned "page turner", while teaching you just what the auto indistry was all about during this time in America.
I read this book when i was doing my BE(Mech), this books make u to know when a production house is,, how thing work in there, the hierarchy, the R & D, product development, politics involved, passing the leisure time, & many more things,,, After reading this book i decided never ever to join a Production house in my life, ha ha ha,, However i started my career in a production house.
The next book on my Arthur Hailey TBR was Wheels and as the name implies, this one takes you into the world of America's #1 business: Automobiles.Set in Detroit - the hub for the US Auto Industry - Wheels follows a story line that involves the run-up to a new automobile launch in the market and the ensuing production issues that come with trying to manufacture a competitive product.
But maybe not so great in the book.
All I got is some revolutionary verbatim, unfulfilled sexual desires, extra marital affairs, some mafia related stuff in the end in the face of it all.
Although it's a really old work by Mr.Hailey, it would have been really, really great if he could have included that automobile feel to the story.
Its good to follow your dreams but not everyone can be so put out by Cars, when initially they showed so much integrity towards it.
Not recommended when you want it to be exclusively about Cars.
Свое знакомство с творчеством Артура Хейли начала с этого произведения.
У меня выбор стоял между двумя книгами – «Аэропорт» и непосредственно этой, «Колёса».
Сначала я взялась за «Аэропорт», но быстро передумала.
Решила оставить книгу с зимней атмосферой на новогодние праздники (да, есть у меня привычка делить книги на сезоны по настроению).
К «Колёсам», должна сказать, у меня было неоднозначное отношение.
Не совсем понимала чем меня, человека с нулевыми знаниями об автомобилях, может заинтересовать роман об автомобильной индустрии в США 70-ых годов.
Сейчас, дочитав книгу до конца, могу сказать что была приятно удивлена.
Хейли понравился мне намного больше, чем я ожидала.
The primary reason why I like Arthur Hailey books is the amount of research that goes into it.
Reading one book guarantees you a crash course on the industry that the book is based on.That however, works against him in this case.
Before detailing the same, I must admit that the automobile industry isn’t something I would read about, out of my own volition.
But this is Hailey and so I decided to give it a chance.Even if I subtract the nitty-gritties of the automobile industry, there are still many points of concern.
Thus, the book comes out as a detailed article on the workings of the car industry-fact glaring over fiction.
I had read this book earlier too. However, while reading some other books, I nostalgically remembered this one and I wanted to read again. So I read this again. Very engrossing, giving meticulous details of the Car Manufacturing and the people involved, their lives, the city of Detroit and like that. Too good.As a matter of fact Arthur Hailey is one of those authors who would write as if presenting the visual depiction. I recommend this book.
Ummmm.... boring af? Okay, catchy at the beginning, but later on it’s just a series of events barely connected to each other, a few people’s casual life image with a little bit of struggle, a little bit of happiness... and normally I would love to read a book without an intense plot, but not in this case. I mean was there any plot at all? I feel like I could write a story about me grocery shopping and make it way more exciting. So meh... disappointed.
Arthur Hailey knows how to write adventure novels. This is an older book and should be updated as the industry has changed. Because I have family working in the auto industry I found this book interesting. I have to say in some places it may have been too long and the ending seemed forced,but other than that it is an intriguing behind the scenes tale.
I think, most of us faced with reading slum. So, I'm not the exception. And this book was the only I wanted to read during that period. It's not the first Hailey's book I've read, and not the last. Definetely one of my favourite author.
Informative Hated the abrupt ending. Liked the story & details about Motown & auto making-/ the history and so on. Amazing to see that in 70s they were considering alternatives to gas Engines
Would have given it a 2 star. I felt it was a tedious read in most places but it changed toward the end, hence the extra star. Intriguingly some of the characters were freakishly similar to the ones in another of Hailey's books, The Moneychangers.
A lot of good scenes. Quite short by Hailey standards, which is a good thing. The book is missing a central character or conflict that would bring everything together.
So bad it's good. Peak Hailey.
You don't have to be a car enthusiast to enjoy this book, but it helps.
Kvalitní román.
Abrupt ending but fascinating 1979s view of auto industry & Motown. Worth reading.
Very good thriller in the background of car manufacturers
A great achievement in writing about the automobile industry.
https://thoughtsonabook.blogspot.in/2...
Честно казано очаквах повече от тази книга.
И това нещо беше интригата.
Мисля, че трябваше да има малко повече тръпка, а сюжетът вървеше доста монотонно, кулминация също ми убягна.
В началото беше споменат някакъв критик на автомобилния бизнес на име Емерсън Вейл и очаквах някакво развитие и сблъсък, но такъв нямаше.От друга страна за пръв път чета книга с толкова широко задълбочаване в материята.
Явно за втори път ми се случва да започна опознаването на някой автор с грешната книга :D Все пак човек нищо не губи и от запознаването с нещо ново и по-различно от обичайното, както е в "Колела".
