https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/81582.Mexico_City_Blues
Zenful jazz riffs on our smoke veiled existence - beautiful.
It took me years to get beyond the Beat myth and see these poems for what they are; some of the most joyful, goofy and affecting writings of the last century.
His improvised word-jazz was at its peak; the poems are fresh and spontaneous but rarely sloppy (try it yourself if you don't believe me).
Kerouac combines a love for made-up words and feeling for language as pure sound with a lyrical directness you find more often in pop songs than modern poetry.
Hearing Kerouac read some of these on the Steve Allen record made me realize how rare a thing his poems achieved: sentiment, experiment, tenderness, peace.
I've read Kerouac's three most popular novels, being On the Road (have read this three times), Dharma Bums, and Big Sur. Love him or hate him, he's a master beat novelist in the "stream of consciousness" style.
This is trying so hard to be both by pretending to be clever and literary and stream of consciousness, but possessing some alliterative wordplay and interesting sounding nonsense.
The trouble with the Beats is they wanted to break all the rules without learning them first.
His poetry contains clichés and dialog out of context, heavy-handed stream of consciousness, and lacks any remote sort of imagery.
Svaki put kad se kaznim i pročitam nešto proizašlo iz prepotentnog mozga i pisaće mašine Jacka Kerouaca prisjetim se što znači nekvalitetno pisanje (u bilo kojem obliku).Čovjek bi pomislio kako netko tko je izrazito loš prozaik možda ima neke nade u poeziji, ali Kerouac ima barem jedan talent, a taj je da je sranje u svemu što ima veze s pisanjem. Jebalo te ''spontano pisanje'' i ''senzorne meditacije'', Jean.
I finished my Extended Essay! Hence, I finished this. At first, I won't lie, I was kinda reserved towards the poem. They just looked like random words strewn together on a page. Poems are supposed to be pleasantly musical, in some shape or another. However, after the extensive research that came with writing my monster essay, there is no denying Kerouac's inherent musicality in his poems. The erratic, spontaneous, improvisational feel of jazz is vividly latent in all of these choruses. Good job man. Listen to Kerouac and Johnny Depp recite some of the choruses: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=AmOmA...https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=frJ8T...
one of kerouac's finest moments for it's differency. open to any page and engage.om. hare rama. hallelujah. mexico. new orleans. sweet denver.jack will always be cliche to one demographic and a god to another. an innovator too plagiarized today, in the same vein that bob dylan stole from woody g before the trend had been set. be ahead of your time, but not too ahead of it.fame always leads to critics. kerouac was probably an asshole, but i have a special place in my heart for anyone who lived out their authenticism.
I think the thing with JK is finding the diamond in the "rough" between the free flow. Try not to think to hard about what your reading but let it speak to you in your own way... does that make any sense?
Prefiero ser delgadoque famosoperosoy gordo
do you like poetry? dreams? me too. so does Jack. let's go sit on the roof now.
This is the greatest work of poetry I've ever read. It's pure freedom of form, hypnotic meters, and chasmic depth inspired me to be a writer for the rest of my life.
A great supplement to other works by and about Kerouac. Not every line is great, but many are. And this poem is an insightful and enjoyable read.
Now we know; at least one of them writes books."For all its weaknesses, "Mexico City Blues" has survived its publication history and Rexroth's criticism.
"Mexico City Blues" is a collection of 242 short poems, each of which is titled simply as a numbered "Chorus".
(The dividing lines between some of the choruses thus frequently seem artificial and mask a continuity in the text.) As with all poetry, the choruses in "Mexico City Blues" work best when declaimed and read aloud.
There are choruses about Kerouac's life in Mexico, on the railroads, travelling around, and about much else."Mexico City Blues" is a long, erratic collection.
At moments brilliant but mostly drug addled crap, Mexico City Blues is Jack Kerouac's career in microcosm.
There are times when his poetry and prose are truly great, when he can incite or captivate or evoke a sensation like a master, but most of the time he is a hack.
In some moments and in some cases this was a boon, but it was not always so, and Kerouac's ouevre is too littered with the latter for him to be truly great.
Read Mexico City blues and you'll see what I mean.
(p.s. it's more fun to read in French.)
I think i was reading this at a bar in Belfast as I sipped my first Guinness on (Northern)Irish land(not my first Gunness by any means, just the first one in the Irelands). It was either this or Dr.Sax, and if it was Dr.Sax then i must've read this in Switzerland. Either way, if you like Kerouac you will probably find something you like here.
the obsession with Buddhism does kind of get annoying, but good poetry overall.favorites: 6, 16, 17, 24, 25, 33, 34, 49, 64, 66, 67, 69, 70, 72, 80, 110, 111, 113, 123, 131, 143, 168, 176, 184, 187, 190, 192, 198, 202, 204, 206, 209, 211, 212, 226, 227, 228, 242
Jack always makes me smile : ) 34th chorus is my favorite...leisurely exploring souls and cities...!
Best pomes ever. Straight at it Kerouac.
Going with the theme of jazz, these choruses often remind me of the amazing imagery found in modern slam/spoken word poems that I've heard (and a lot of the nonsense sounds loads better when read aloud).
It's true that Kerouac has a lot to say, and he was definitely a talented writer - if he had laid off the drugs, he might have been an even better writer.In conclusion, Mexico City Blues is a fair book of poetry.
Just don't expect to enjoy every chorus (or even over half the choruses), and be sure to try reading them aloud to get a feel for what Kerouac's going on about.
There's dope, spittle, adrenaline, joint pain, hot sweet moonlight, and someone who's read Sanskrit and is trying to sing it like it's sticking, and maybe get you to at the same time.
Sure, you could read Suzuki on Zen in the fifties, but what the hell was America going to understand, share, or give you back?
At the same time, this was a fun jam to try and hold on to, like reading something illicit that everyone thought they got but missed: "an asinine form/which will end/all asininity/from now on/That's a poem" (85)
Beautiful and surreal at its best. Hiccuped and unintelligible at its worst. Perhaps, however, that is too harsh of a criticism, because much of the poetry in this book is an experiment of sound and language. The unintelligible sections should be enjoyed for its poesy, not meaning. Kerouac truly emerges as a talented jazz and blues poet. Overall, this is a beautiful book of poetry. Kerouac is at his best during his meditations on death, meaning, and childhood -- all of which are pervasive throughout this collection."The sound in your mind is the first sound That you could sing."
Lovely work of art
Beautiful stuff. These 242 blues choruses mean different things to me at different times in life, but it's more about the feeling. You either get it or you don't. It's like jazz. It is jazz. For some it's an acquired taste. Others are born with bop in the blood. You need to step into the jam and find the rhythm in the words and enjoy the way they roll and play. Jack is a buzzed Buddha in sunglasses busy at prayer and play in this classic collection.
All I can say is...wow. Never has a book of poetry affected me as deeply as Whitman's 1865 edition of Leaves of Grass. Each poem spoke to me in unique and different ways. Kerouac truly was the king of stream of consciousness prose. His sense of sound and the way words flow together is showcases beautifully here. I'm really at a loss for words...
To make any sense of Mexico City Blues by Kerouac, you've got to read it out loud, and read it quickly. Love his novels, and I'm starting to fall in love with his poetry.... Also, if anyone is planning on getting into Kerouac's Buddhist texts, then, in the words of Jack: "To understand what I'm sayin, You gotta read the Sutras."
A la mitad me pregunté si me estaba volviendo igual de loca o era parte del trabajo de Kerouac desquiciarte un poco para que todo tuviera sentido a esta altura.De una u otra forma, dentro de todo el caos literario y citadino, lo disfruté bastante.
Interesting, at times some of the poems seemed awful, but then I started reading them whilst listening to Coltrane, monk, Davis, then found them more interesting and made more sense in the style and framing ect.
The poetry was... difficult to say the least. It often seemed to be just words for words sake. Having said that there were many moments of lyrical genius and some beautiful images evoked in an interesting way. i think that it will benefit from repeated readings.
A- Poems
Kerouac could riff eternally. KIND KING MIND
Rhythmic, bizarre, and made me want to do heroin.
