https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/9648.Keep_the_Aspidistra_Flying
An aspidistra in Orwell's case, another kind of pot plant for me.As the story works itself out Gordon discovers two more things, things we had in common - we were really rather average poets and artists, and the answer to all the problems caused by following one's (mediocre) calling and being permanently broke, was the Man himself, aka Filthy Lucre.
We have morphed into the Man ourselves and don't call it 'selling out' but making a living.It's not a bad read, amusing in parts, but Gordon is such a tiresome creature and it was all a bit, in a not-too-distant historical sense, been there, done that, grew up.

What is more important in life: to hold on your principles and by this lead a dreadful life, or to leave your principles, and by that get a richer life? Actually this is the basic question in this book. To know what Gordon choses, You should read the book. It's worth it.
In all honesty, George, I think the problem, as is so often the case when a romance takes a downward turn, is that Comstock reminds me of a past relationship, he reminds me of a friend in my real world, the one outside of the pages, who wanted to issue a similar indictment against society.
The problem is that neither my friend in the past relationship nor Comstock seem to understand that society as a whole doesn't take much notice when one man refuses to conform to its dictates.
He wants to live a meager life, live in the slums with the downcast because we wants to fight a war against money.
The problem he has is his girl wants more from life and it seems that they are headed in completely different directions.In every house or boarding room Gordon lives there is an Aspidistra.
Orwell has cleverly used the Aspidistra as a beacon to where Gordon's life is at.
A powerful insight into society and the perceived evils of money and the day of reckoning when we find we can no longer fight against the society we live in.
The reader’s response to Gordon Comstock’s behaviour will depend upon whether the reader has ever tried to live a “self-sufficient” life free from bourgeois respectability, or seriously pursued an artistic vocation with stubborn single-mindedness.
Orwell’s novel is pretty one-track plot-wise—what happens when a person renounces money and its interminable grip?—but Comstock’s obsessive pursuit is a societal conundrum of universal proportions and makes for a frustrating and bone-deep trip to the depths.
Comstock’s artistic drive is not strong enough to triumph over his money worries, suggesting his desire to write poetry is nothing but an excuse for rebelling against a predetermined bourgeois society (more horrible in the 1930s than it will ever be again).
We spent more time on Voxer than actually reading this novel most nights but in our defense we spent most of that time gushing about Orwell.I think this is my favorite Orwell.
I think it may be one of the best opening chapters to a novel that I've ever read, in fact, it's one of the best chapters that I've ever read.
I really just want to run around the streets with copies of this book and throw it at people's faces shouting "OH MY GOD READ THIS".
This novel is a great entry point into the books that really made Orwell great.
Oh, Orwell, thank you.It's no secret that Animal Farm is one of my favourite books.
Keep the Aspidistra Flying can stand proudly beside Animal Farm.This book's main theme was money.
Orwell is all about his grander ideas, and here the idea was clear: can a person stand against the "money-god"?
Something very peculiar, that you won't find in Animal Farm of 1984, was a satisfying ending.
We've had great discussion about this book, he's put up with my ramblings, and he's allowed Keep the Aspidistra Flying to have a similar effect on me that Animal Farm did: I can't wait to pick up more classics.
A Note on the Text--Keep the Aspidistra Flying
Nevertheless the liking or disliking of the hero or heroine of a novel evidently does not in itself negate the quality of the writing and it is certainly true that this novel is a really powerful description of the blanching effect of poverty on the colour of life, of the crippling struggle that the poor underwent between the wars and the pitiful descriptions of scrimping and saving and the sinking sense of worth they brought were bleak and therefore very effective.There was also real humour here though and Orwell's descriptions of the Comstock family and the demise of their shortlived wealth was really rich, if you'll pardon the inappropriate irony, in imagery as indeed was a great deal of the narrative.
"The mistake you make, don't you see, is in thinking one can live in a corrupt society without being corrupt oneself. After all, what do you achieve by refusing to make money? You're trying to behave as though one could stand right outside our economic system. But one can't. One's got to change the system, or one changes nothing."I thoroughly enjoyed this little book. If you like Orwell you will love Keep the Aspidistra Flying.
I bloody love Orwell. He's not a perfect author and couldn't keep politics or social commentary out of his fiction, but that's part of his appeal. Yes, he banged on constantly about poverty, or war and far too often revealed his lecharous side. I forgive it all. Orwell had something he wanted to say and he found a way to say it. I don't agree with everything, I'm not blown away by his writing, but I am sad that I've now read all of his stories.
As he points out, he isn’t poor enough to experience actual hardship (unlike many in the 1930s), but is poor enough that everything from socializing with friends to courting his girlfriend to writing poetry to having a cup of tea without having to hide it from the landlady is nearly impossible.His lack of money, which is at least partially self-inflicted, becomes Gordon’s excuse for all that he has failed to achieve in his life.
Gordon is hardly the most charming of protagonists, but his tragic fall and relationship with his saintly girlfriend, Rosemary, are still compelling, largely due to Orwell’s vivid characterizations.Keep the Aspidistra Flying is not nearly as aggressively political as Orwell’s more famous works.
The reason I even gave it three stars is because it's an Orwell book and, as such, he doesn't disappoint us with his wit, satire and irony.
I just got so sick and tired of hearing about how poor he was and how people treated him due to his lack of money (I believe most of the cases were delusion on his part).The fact that he has such an understanding girlfriend is beyond me.Gordon declares war on money.
I just didn't get his reasoning for declaring war on the 'money god.' So, in summary, I didn't waste my time reading this book but it's definitely not one I would choose to read again.
Slowly but surely working my way to Orwell's work and I'm have a mighty splendid time doing so. This book had me LOL several times. I can't wait to continue my author exploration of this genius works.
That’s a clear indication of how Orwell felt about the novel and it’s fair to say that it’s not his strongest work.
Having recently read Bowker’s biography of Orwell, I particularly appreciated the autobiographical elements of the novel, which otherwise would have been lost on me.
Gordon works in a secondhand bookstore - as did Orwell - and his descent into poverty is based on Orwell’s experiences living among the unemployed and the destitute.
For me, one of the major weaknesses of the work is that Gordon’s rage against middle class values becomes rather tedious (although to be fair, that may have been part of the point Orwell wanted to make).
He quits his very good job only because he doesn't want to be a slave to money.
Yet, his former boss is always willing to give him back the job, his girlfriend is always understanding and never gives him a hard time about his reluctance to make money, and his friend never seems to be able to get mad at him.
However, he seems to let his well-known pessimism take over which would be alright if only he, as an author, gave at least a glimmer of hope in the light of a big idea.
Well first of all, Orwell is a fantastic prose writer.
What made me tired is the main character's total obsession about money.
I hated that and that is one of the main themes of this book.
But then again I wanted to shoot the main character in the head and get rid of his misery.But at the same time it reminded me of when I really didn't have money, and the importance of having a certain amount of coins in your pocket being the most important thing on this universe.
But at the bottom line, Orwell was a magnificent writer.
کتاب درخت زندگی به پستی و بلندی های زندگی انسان می پردازد. جرج اورول از نویسندگان مشهور انگلیسی است و این کتاب از جمله چندین کتاب وی است که در سال های 1948 برای اولین بار به چاپ رسید.
I have not sympathized with a protagonist quite so much in a good while.Gordon Comstock is turning thirty, has no money, works in a bookshop, is a failing poet, and refuses to take a "good" job because of his socialist ideals and his war against the money-god, and it's chief symbol: the aspidistra that sits in the window of every British middle-class home.
His yet-to-be mistress, Rosemary, is far more understanding and generous than Gordon and his pretensions deserve but all comes to a good end.
But ultimately, there may be hope for Gordon and Rosemary.Please read this if you work in a bookshop.
That story between the two characters is almost too sacred to give out in a book review.
You can't read and put down Orwell's novels without rearranging a few of your beliefs.Only Orwell can speechify so effortlessly the concepts of love and the accompanying hatred, of wealth and the necessary poverty.
It seems like it's less painful to withdraw from the world than struggle within it.
Life is not unlivable; living is worth it.Why is such a process necessary?
It is the contribution of choice; you choose to be a flawed part of a flawed world, and only then are you relieved.
I have read it compulsively because despite being for many aspects so far away in time and setting (the book solidly mirrors and describes the social context of the Thirties in England), to me it felt so 'true', that it was almost too real.The thing is that the book deals with things that have started to trouble me personally now that I am settling in, that I have just started my first proper job, and that the 'rest of my life' has begun.Despite his harshness and stubborness, in Gordon Cormistock, the protagonist, I have traced my own concerns, my own disillusionment and disappointment.
Oh, what an ode to the money-Gods and aspidistras. An amazing, emotional journey of one man's fight against aspidistras and the inevitable pull of the money-Gods. This is a novel that is warm, hard, depressing, funny, absurd and at the end virtuous and redeeming. He simultaneously threads the needles of commerce, class, art and protest and weaves his story with satire and pathos, but doesn't make caricatures of ANY of his characters.
I haven't yet read Orwell's Down and Out in Paris and London, a supposedly excellent autobiographical account of a middle-class man's descent into abject poverty, but I would imagine that some of the experiences Orwell describes in that book must have served him equally well in writing Keep the Aspidistra Flying, which must rank among the bleakest novels about self-induced poverty ever written in the English language.
I didn't really care for Gordon's sudden change of heart in the final chapters, which seemed a bit pat to me, but even so, Keep the Aspidistra Flying struck me as an excellent book, full of powerful observations about writing and life in general that I wish I had come up with myself.
"Lapok , Aspidistra." , kaip ir "1984" , nagrinėjamomis temomis , man pasirodė žymiai opesnė šiems laikams , negu tada kai buvo parašyta ( Nebūtų George Orwell) ir lygiai taip pat baksnoja žmonių nosį į jų pačių šūdą ir atvirai ir nepagražindamas parodo kokia apgailėtina , kvaila ir veidmainiška yra mūsų visuomenė.Knygynas kuriame nėra vertų dėmesio Knygų , pigios landynės , myžalais ir pigiu alumi dvokiantys barai , badas , skurdas , poezija ir žinoma aspidistra - štai tokia atmosfera vyrauja.Orwell sugebėjo tobulai perteikti tai ką jaučia nuolatinio bado ir skurdo kamuojamas žmogus ir kaip keičiasi žmogus iš išorės ir vidaus dėl pinigų trukumo ir pertekliaus.
Questo romanzo di Orwell è non dico meno conosciuto, ma forse meno letto e apprezzato rispetto agli altri suoi più acclamati.
Però, fondamentalmente, racconta, come gli altri, una sconfitta, un progressivo cedere, un graduale abbandonare e abbandonarsi che disgrega il sé e porta a confondersi con l’omologato, con il comune sentire e, a un certo punto, a uniformarsi, vuoi per paura, vuoi per sfinimento emotivo.“Fiorirà l’aspidistra” non è, a ben vedere, molto diverso da “1984”, benché più famigliare e quieto sia il contorno.
Orwell non critica mai apertamente, però ci mostra le cose.
Okuduğum diğer George Orwell romanlarıyla karşılaştıracak olursam sanırım en az bu romanından zevk aldım.
Kitabın ilk yarısı fazla durağandı bana göre.
Parayı sevmiyor, paradan nefret ediyor ya da bence ettiğini zannediyor.
Eğer çok parası olsa paraya karşı tutumu aynı mı olurdu diye sorgulayıp durdum kitap boyunca.
Paradan bu kadar nefret edip paraya bu kadar takılması ve kapitalizm karşıtlığını sefalet içinde yaşamakla bir tutması yer yer beni çileden çıkardı diyebilirim.
Bu, diğer kitaplarını düşünecek olursak, Orwell'ın tarzı sanırım.
Pek çok şeyin bir çözümü yok, hayat paradokslarla dolu...
Yani en azından kitabın bana hissettirdiği bu.
A novel of London life and the search for integrity in the 1930s. Features the shabbier side of life to the extent that the one brief excursion that the hero and his girlfriend make out of London feels like the explosive escape from a crushing environment.
Gordonas bandė kažkaip suderinti savo pasišlykštėjimą kapitalizmu ir atsisakymą žaisti pagal jo taisykles su noru visavertiškai dalyvauti visuomenės gyvenime.
Beje, knyga labai gerai surezonavo su šiuo metu skaitoma Frommo "Pabėgti iš laisvės", kurioje nagrinėjamas keblus individo santykis su asmenine laisve.p. 53 Gordon jau žinojo, kur jų bėda: ne tiek tai, kad jie neturi pinigų, o tai, kad neturėdami pinigų jie mintimis toliau gyvena pinigų pasaulyje - pasaulyje, kuriame pinigai yra dorybė, skurdas - nusikaltimas.
Jiems neužtenka proto atsikvošėti ir tiesiog pradėti ~gyventi~, su pinigais ar be jų, kaip kad gyvena žemesnės klasės.
It is something very few of us think about but its something that shapes every tiny little part of our lives whether we like it or not.Like all the Orwell books I've read up to this point, it made me stop and think about where I found myself in my life right now.
I've made life changing decisions based on my contempt for the 'rat race' and the pursuit of wealth....but as I get older I'm slowly starting to see that to be part of the human race and live, you need to be part of it, it being the pursuit of money.I would recommend this book to anyone who loves Orwell and for those that are searching for a book with meaning and a main character that you love in the beginning, want to harm in the middle, but then love again in the end.
