https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/27310.Muhammad
Karen Armstrong has not written a page-turner with this biography of Muhammad - in fact, I brought it with me for a long plane-flight, figuring only total boredom would force me to read it.
But she has written a powerful biography that not only details Muhammad's long and very interesting career, it also reveals his beating heart, his absolute sincerity, and his humanity in both its frailty and its spiritual strength.
And, oh yes, I definitely did improve my knowledge of Islam, which Armstrong is able to unpack with great skill.It IS a bit tedious to plow through in places.
A great biography of Muhammad (PBUH) that follows him throughout his life. If a person is used to some spellings of Arabic words, it will take time to learn other spellings. This book is a great companion to the Qur'an, and will allow the reader a greater understanding of the development of one of the world's greatest religions: Islam.
One is left to form ones own opinions on the merits of Muhammad's life as the author adeptly records events without ever making the error of sounding like a dry, dusty, critical historian.All the details are in place, but in a format that reads like an adventure novel rather than a lecture, highly entertaining and fresh.Current events are touched upon in a sensitive, restrained fashion but really they are the one unnecessary aspect of the book.
The storyline alone provides many answers as to just why fanatical adherents are willing to go to such extremes in the name of their prophet.One comes away from the book, if not fully understanding the Muslim mindset, then at least appreciating why the devotion is there.A wonderful, entertaining read.
I was doubtful at first -- Armstrong seemed to be biased too much in the other way (i.e. going out of her way to portray Islam in a good light to counteract what she perceives as centuries of Western ignorance and prejudice).
She spent a good chapter at first excoriating the West for its reprehensible attitude toward Islam.
But then the biography got really good.
You know, once it actually started.
Armstrong's descriptions of life, traditions, and politics in 7th century Arabia are fascinating.
Her narrative of the beginnings of Islam is quite compelling.
كتاب حلو قوي من كاتبة مستشرقةوان كنت بكره اللفظ دابحسه مريب ومثير للشكبس ما علينا الكتاب بيتحدث عن السيرة العطرة للنبيوعن كل الاشاعات اللي بتقال وبترد عليه بسهولة كتاب تتعجب ان سيدة غربية تتوصل لتلك المعاني بينما العربلامؤاخذةبيقراءو الفهرستوبسودا اخرهم ف الدينوالقنوات المريبةاللي شاغله بالها بدخول الحماموالخروج منهبينما اصلا مفيش حمامكتاب لابد ان تقرائه:)
Very interesting !!!When I first started reading this book, I was sorta doubtful, putting in mind that; a book about the prophet or Islam written by a non-Muslim would be somehow biased, inaccurate or misleading.
In her book, Armstrong does a very good job in introducing an analytical, well-written, decent biography about Muhammad (PBUH) with a cleverly clear emphasis on issues have been always subject to a great criticism by westerns such as the concept of jihad and war, his multi wives and hijab.
Armstrong seeks through her book to encourage a new understanding towards Islam taking Muhammad (PBUH) as a starting point.
The author has set an example of balanced scholarship and sensitivity that all religious scholars would be well served to emulate.
In the book, the author not only chronicles the life of the Founder of Islam, but also documents the many false statements promulgated in the West for centuries about Muhammad and Islam.
Finally, the book is written with sensitivity to Muslims and helped me understand some of the special challenges Muslims living in the West have.
As a delightful bonus, the book is quite readable for a religious scholar's work.
Comparative religions writer, Karen Armstrong's book, Mohammad, really helps us to understand the Prophet of Islam; I believe that this book is a must read for all Westerners who really care to know, in an unbiased way, the foundations of Islam.
She gives us background in the area, especially where Mecca is, and its historical background so we can understand Mohammad's early life and the importance of what this religion brought to the area when it came forth.
Although it only covers up to the early nineties, it helps us understand the Soviet invasion of 1979, our creation of the Tailiban, and what is really going on right now.
أولا وقبل أي شيء "إنك لا تهدي من أحببت ولكن الله يهدي من يشاء" فاسأل الله أن يرزق كارين ارمسترونج ال
The youth, who felt growing malaise and a lack of belonging in this new Arabia, were naturally among the first to be attracted to Islam, given that social solidarity was one of the first messages preached.The main weaknesses of the book are poor transliteration and several infuriating contradictions of itself or its sources ("there is no evidence that Muhammad saw Islam as a universal religion" being one of the worst).
Written at the time of the Rushdie crisis, the opening chapter discusses the modern climate of fear and hatred towards Islam and Muslims together with historical trends in Eastern-Western relations, and calls for an attempt to come to mutual understanding and fight Western media and academic bias against Islam.
Written in the years following 9/11, this book has a clear goal of trying to convince Westerners that the origins of Islam include much that is appealing.
Armstrong does not conceal those acts of the Prophet that are hardest for moderns to understand (most notably, in my view, the execution of 700 men and the sale of their women and children into slavery because of an act of tribal perfidy); she does, however, point out that the thrust of Muhammad's teaching was toward a new kind of harmony within Arabia and for Arabs with their neighbors.
My own reaction to 9/11 was to read the Quran and books about the religion, including some works by the dean of Arab studies, Bernard Lewis.
In this book Armstrong cherry picks the worst bits of Christian history - Crusades, progroms, Jesus cursing his enemies - and then argues something along the lines of "Well, Muhammed wasn't quite as bad as that!" She seems to think this constitutes an apologia for Islam. There is actually a passage where she argues Muhammed's slaughter of Jews was acceptable because it wasn't as bad as Hitler's!A terribly dishonest book.
Karen Armstrong provides a great source of history during the time period and brings clarity to what transpired.
I recommend this book to those interested in reverting to Islam, before reading the Quran; as well as, to non-Muslims, so they would have a better understanding of whom Muhammad (pbuh) actually was.
In the beginning of this book, Karen does a great job of writing how other religious groups have suffered for their beliefs.
Sadly, the same fear mongering about Muhammad (pbuh) from the middle ages, still echoes today and I often see it reiterated time and time again, it is very sad that in this day in age how much ignorance still exists regarding Muhammad (pbuh) and Islam .
Great read!
As it is sub-titled this work is more a biography than a review of Muhammad's theology and yet it provides a deeper understanding of the social forces that gave rise to that theology.
Its peoples lived on the edge of extinction constantly and many social mores were adaptations to those conditions, the infacide of daughters and the practice of having multiple wives being examples.
Yet for all this Muhammad only ever referred to himself as a Messinger for there was only one god, Allah, a lack of conceit missing in the other two sister religions.
I have always heard good things about Karen Armstrong’s books; however, I was extremely disappointed in this biography of the Prophet (peace be upon him).
Of course, as an outsider to Islam, Armstrong’s writings do not confirm or support Islam as the religion of God. Rather, most of the book is dedicated to proving what a genius the Prophet (peace be upon him) was to create such a religion.
From an Anthropological standpoint, I was disappointed in her treatment of the Arab society.
Armstrong depicts Arab society as lacking in civilization and looking for religious enlightenment that the Christians had obtained.
However, there are better biographies out there of the Prophet (peace be upon him).
This book reads like an apology coming from the west and particularly from the Christian world.
Instead of reporting the Prophet's biography from an objective standpoint, an effort has been made at every page to compare the situation and resulting actions in the erstwhile Arabian peninsula with the ones that have been perpetrated by the Christian world over the course of history.
I was hoping to get more insights into the current state of affairs in and around Islam and how they are rooted in the very beginnings.
Armstrong bends over backward to make Muhammad into something other than a bloodthirsty warlord, but her apologetics are hilariously inadequate. She sounds like a defense attorney defending her client against charges of war crimes far more than she sounds like a historian. This book is only interesting for seeing what contortions moderate Muslims have to go through to believe that their prophet is actually a praiseworthy man. She would have done more good for the world if she had taken on Muhammad's brutality and challenged Muslims instead of pandering to them.
It is well written and comes with a glossary of Arabic terms and Arabic people that lived during those changing times.
What we get is a man dedicated to changing a people of hostile habits into a people of peaceful existence.
It may well have been a time that was due on that peninsula, but to know how Muhammad shaped that time and the perseverance required, is awe inspiring.
We also learn that like any religion over time, the messages of the Koran, which was recited and written for those times, has been interpreted in different ways to further agendas much different then how Muhammad may have intended them.

Muhammad: a biography of the prophet, Karen Armstrong عنوان: محمد (ص): زندگینامه پیامبر اسلام؛ نویسنده: کارن آرمسترانگ؛ مترجم: کیانوش حشمتی؛ تهران، حکمت، 1383؛ در 377 ص؛ کتابنامه از ص 365 تا ص 377؛ موضوع: سرگذشتنامه حضرت محمد (ص): پیامبر اسلام از سال 53 پیش از هجرت سال 11 هجری قمری قرن 20 ماین کتاب به عربی نیز ترجمه شده، با عنوان: سیره النبی ؛ مترجم: محمد عنانی و فاطمه نصر؛ قاهره، سطور، 1376؛ در 415 ص 76 منتشر شده است
من أفضل ما كتب عن سيرة الرسول صلى الله عليه وسلم بأقلام أجنبية، وأعجبني فيه جدًا ملمح لم يتلفت إليه أحد من الكتاب المشرقيين، وهذه هي الميزة عندما تكتب إمرأة، كتبت أنه رغم هيبة الرسول وكونه حاكم خاض الحروب وكانت له سطوة على أعدائه، إلا أن أيا من نسائه لم تشعر يومًا أنها حائفة منه أو تترهب شراسة منه، أعجبني هذا الملمح جدًا
It is rare that a person who has influenced the development of nearly all modern civilizations on Earth, especially one from such an early part of history, receives such a thorough account of his life.
I do see how some readers might mistake Armstrong for a Muslim apologist, but only because modern ignorance of Muhammed's life, and Islam in general is so ubiquitous.
Frankly, though, Armstrong is correct in assuming most readers of her text are in need of such fleshing out of some of the issues modern humans face in understanding Islam.
An excellent, detailed, readable, unbiased, accurate, and intelligently-written biography of the prophet. Clever comparisons with Christianity and Judaism for some incidents. Fresh views and explanations for some of the famous misconceptions. Great effort from a Non-Muslim and a Westerner! Definitely one of the best Sirah and biography books I have ever read. I utterly recommend the book.
really just worthless as history. manages to tell the life story of the prophet mohammed without using the words "beheading" or "slaveowner" or "massacre". this is a spectacular waste of time.
Armstrong apparently wrote this book in the wake of the Salman Rushdie "Satanic Verses" fatwah/furore--it is thus an attempt to help Western readers approach an understanding of Islam by providing them with the historical context both to Muhammad's life and to his revelations.It is a sympathetic biography, but it is also an objective one.
Having personally experienced--as a Westerner steeped in Christian culture--the difficulty of approaching the Qur'an (in fact, I gave up the attempt), I highly recommend this book for the deep context it provides, and would counsel readers to allow Armstrong to set the stage before taking the plunge into the Islamic scriptures.
and then suggesting that Jesus lacked these qualities/experiences).However, overall I did feel that the book gave me a good insight into the context for the start of Islam and its early years, throughout Muhammad's life.
It did explain quite well why the start of Islam did involve so much bloodshed and war (the primitive tribal context, more akin to the early years of Judaism fighting other tribes).Muhammad came across as a wise leader and clever strategist.
This explains, for example, why Muslims often think the Trinity is God, Mary and Jesus - they'd got this idea from a Christian group who, unsurprisingly, had overstated the divinity of Mary.Long review - lots learnt!

Ok im gonna write a review asap for this book while my thoughts on it is still fresh.I never read a biography of the prophet before so this would be my first and especially from a westerner POV and a non-muslim.
But I personally believe this book is a good read to understand Islam and their love towards their prophet let it be for a muslim or even a non-muslim.
I found that having a Catholic guide to this complex man, his times, and his teachings helped me understand both how his message is similar to and different from the teachings of the Judeo=Christian tradition.That being said, this is a difficult book to read.
This made it seem like a list of things that happened, and it was difficult to get a sense of time or importance as I read.
This helped immensely.I learned a lot and am glad that I read this book.
It helps explain much about the things that have been happening in our current world.
So far it is utterly fascinating to read a biography of the Prophet with a more in-depth examination to determine his place in history as a man and political leader, not necessarily a religious figure.
Just because she is positive about Islam and Muhammed, doesn't mean she is necessarily biased.
As I understand it, it is just a biography by a biographer who over the course of her research has come to admire her subject.She is not a muslim and yet her depiction of Muhammed and Islam's place in the world, corresponds closely to how many Muslims the world over experience their religion.
