https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/157882.Yonie_Wondernose
This is how you can tell children's attention span have changed.
This is a long book with not a lot of pictures.
It takes a kids focus to stay with the story.
The kids lost interest in this and would get out of bed to get this or that.
They couldn't connect to the story and there were too many words.I thought the art was ok, nothing grand.
The story was a good story and it was too long.
I thought Amish life was an interesting subject.The kids laughed at the part where grandma gets locked in the chicken coup.
1945 Caldecott HonorThis is a very long story about a little Amish boy who is always curious and tries to prove himself worthy of being dependable to his pop. It took about half an hour to read this out loud. These older books have so many words compared to the majority of picture books today. Whew. (I finally read it.)
Favorite Illustration: It's pretty tough to decide, but I do like the detail and peace in the black and white line drawings.
The color ones seem to get a little fuzzy and don't have as much emotion.Yonie is a little Amish boy who is curious about everything - a 'wondernose,' his family calls him.
When a summer storm brews up, Yonie must fight his curiosity to rescue the scared animals.I really liked this story.
I't a pretty standard tale of a boy wanting to be a grown up and help his family.
Really good story about an important community of people in Pennsylvania history. This book preserves Pennsylvania farm heritage. Her illustrations are beautiful.
I thought the pictures were nice, but the story didn't capture my interest.
Cute little story of a boy becoming responsible.
Throughout the adventure, Yonie strives to earn the reward his father has promised him"when he is old enough to be trusted like a man."This story deservedly won a Caldecott Honor in 1945 for its excellent writing and fine storyline.
de Angeli does a fine job capturing the exuberant immaturity of this likable child, drawing an appealing picture of a young person striving to overcome childish impulses and earn respect.
It is especially wonderful that the prized reward has to do with his desire to attain to manhood: rather than seeking to gratify his immature desires, Yonie aspires to the respect and honor that is only given to the mature.
Mom and Pop must go away and Pop asks Yonnie to be a man and take care of the grown-up chores, including caring for the barn animals and getting all the water and wood that Grandma needs.
But, Yonnie thinks, if he is successful, maybe Pop will keep his promise.We watch with delight as Yonnie goes about his chores, struggling to stay focused and not get pulled away by his Wondernose.
How will Yonnie Wondernose, always easily distracted, be sure to do all he needs to do to save all the barn animals?Now you will need to read this book.
It took me 3-4 nights to read this to my son because it was so long, but it had a good story.
It is the story about a 7 year old Amish boy named Jonathan, nicknamed Yonie Wondernose because he is so curious about everything.
One day, his father and mother go on a trip and leave him in charge of the farm animals, with his Grandmother and little sister at home as well.
In the end, he gets his surprise, the ability to work with his father and plow the fields all by himself.
This was a fun story of a little boy who wants to be grownup and have grownup responsibilities, but like all little boys, gets distracted from his chores.
I enjoyed the color illustrations from the book with my favorite being when Yonie was sneaking a look in his grandmother's chest, even though he knew it would not be allowed.
I like that he was looking out the window, almost as if he were suspecting he would get caught being a "Wondernose" instead of doing his chores.
Although this book was published in 1944, it still held charm and was a fun read for me.

At first glance, I was interested in the book because it looked older (I wasn't wrong).
Older books interest me most of the time, mostly because of the different styles that have been used even in the past 100 years.
The writing in the book is old time sounding and that is very fun to read.
On top of that, the pictures have a different style to them also.
The illustrations seem pencil drawn and look very sketchy yet intricate.
To make the illustrations even more interesting, most were black and white, but every now and then there would be a great color picture.
• 1945 Caldecott Honor Book •A good story about an Amish boy whose parents go away and his father leaves him charge of the animals and a fire breaks out. The illustrations were good - a mix of black-and-white and color. I actually like the black-and-white drawings more because they have more energy and emotion and don’t feel as flat. This is a good book about growing up, and wanting to be taken more seriously, but it was just a little dull to me. Materials used: unlistedTypeface used: unlisted
A bit wordy for a picture book. But this Caldecott Honor Award Winning story book holds up especially well given its age. Pretty much this is because it is absolutely concerned with a time and a place that is especially timeless, that is the Amish. The art is detailed black and whites with a few colored pages. Not fancy but rings true, and the little boy is a hard working hero, even if he clearly sees himself as totally distracted.
7 year old Yoni lives in Lancaster County, PA. His real name is Jonathan, but his pop calls him Yonie Wondernose as he is a curious boy. When his pop leaves he tells him to look after the animals, especially Dunder the red bull. Granny gets locked in the chicken house and soon after there is a fire. Yoni helps save the animals and his pop gives him a pig of his choice as a reward.There's lots of reading and almost 1/2 the page is illustrated. There are seven full color and page illustrations.
Marguerite deAngeli's luminous paintings won a Caldecott Honor for this book, but the text is lovely too. Yonie (short for Jonathan) is a curious seven year old (today he would be diagnosed with ADD) who keeps getting himself into trouble on his family's farm. Finally when his father leaves him in charge for the day when he is gone, Yonie has the opportunity to prove himself, only to be faced with a terrible disaster. This edition has an introductory note by the author's son.
Yonie, a Pennsylvania dutch boy is curious and earns the nickname Wondernose. He learns to be trustworthy when his parents leave him in charge of the farm. His biggest challenge is when the barn catches fire.Through not only dutch traditions but also the dutch accent the reader is acquainted with another lifestyle and culture. Ink drawings are folksy and beautiful with some full color pages.
This is a great story about an Amish farming family that will especially appeal to boys - plenty of drama that touches on the inner drive (and anxiety about what it will take) to grow up and be a man. The illustrations aren't that compelling, but they keep up with and help carry the story, so they are adequate.
The author really did an outstanding job capturing the accent of the Pennsylvania Amish. Yonie is called "wondernose" due to his insatiable curiosity which often leads him to forget what he should be doing. But when Pa and Ma leave for an overnight visit, he must prove that he can concentrate on his tasks in order to win Pa's approval.
An interesting look at Pennsylvania Dutch Amish culture in the 1940s. Though it does definitely pick up at the end however, this is a fairly long children's short story that isn't exactly chock-full of action. I think elementary-aged me would have found it boring.
Yonie is a little Amish boy who longs prove that he can be trusted like a man, but ach, his wondernose (curiosity) keeps getting him into trouble! This is just darling. De Angeli had great respect for the plain people and it shows. The illustrations are spectacular.
This story about Yonie, who is very nosy, becomes very exciting when the barn catches on fire. I like that Yonie doesn’t overcome all his imperfections overnight, but that he is still able to become a hero and impress his father. I also enjoyed getting a glimpse into the Amish lifestyle.
Yonie is such a Wondernose - always getting distracted when there's work to do. When his parents go away, Yonie (who probably would have been diagnosed ADHD in more modern times) has to get his act together if he's going to save the farm!
**** Caldecott Honor (1945) **** Story of an Amish boy who learns to act as a man when catastrophe strikes. Of course there is the ubiquitous reference to the almighty, as was usual with most stories of this period. But, at least the author doesn't hit you over the head with the bible.
wonderful read and art about an amish boy becoming a man.one negative, the families using butter to soothe burn pains
This book is very enjoyable but does not necessarily teach right from wrong. However, the history of Amish people may be profitable to students. Picture Book-Realistic Fiction
Lovely story about responsibility and good insight into the Amish.
While a bit lengthy, this book had great illustrations and a great introduction to the Amish culture.
The adventures of a young Amish boy are related, alongside nice illustrations. This book is strangely compelling with its surprising details of Amish life.
One of the first times I have liked the story more than the pictures, and I thought the story was so-so and predictable. Is it just me, or does Yonie look like a girl?!
