https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/143229.The_Descent_of_the_Dove
Reading "Descent of the Dove" is like being in a very deep conversation with someone you love, but who knows considerably more than you do and is assuming knowledge that you don't yet have.
The more I knew of the historical period of which he spoke, the more I understood, appreciated and was enriched by William's work.
When I did not know that of which he was writing, I felt an enormous desire to educate myself on the topic and then come back to join him in the conversation.
It is a wonderful work.
Once one has read them, the logical glare of that fire casts a terrible light over the whole Summa.""Dante had written for, as it were, all the world, and all the world has neglected seriously to study him.""Unfortunately whoever thought of [the idea of Indulgences] dropped a lighted match into the unknown cellar of man's mind, which contains the heavily dynamic emotions known as 'faith' and 'works.'"Williams' chapter on the Reformation also merits comment: it's actually quite scandalous, much as Lewis' words at the end of Christian Morality and his first chapter in OHEL are scandalous, yet uncommented upon (unlike Reflections on the Psalms which are just ignored).
How I made it through church history classes in seminary without having this book assigned is a mystery to me.
For Williams, church history is a drama wherein events and characters bear witness of coinherence--the presence of heaven in the matters of earth.
One might say that he's just a gifted writer to make church history this exciting, but I believe he saw the drama that everyone else had been missing, even when it was right in front of their eyes.
Dorothy Sayers saw the same thrill in church history, claiming that "the dogma is the drama." In Descent of the Dove, one encounters the drama that is Christian dogma.
Too intellectual, in the worst way -- presumptuous, abstracted, logically unsound. But it's one of those few books about which I can definitively say: this has changed the way I think about things. Williams is, here as always, comfortably poised at the convergence of orthodoxy, heresy, and and insanity.
Williams presents in this book a brief history of the church.
Williams also pierces to the heart of conflict within the Church throughout history, giving helpful insight into the struggles of various eras.
As a friend of Lewis and a fellow Inkling, I was surprised at just how different Williams writes.
Unlike the clear and compelling style of Lewis, Williams is dense, less direct, and less understandable.
Consequently, the content is great, but fans of Lewis thinking Williams might be a good next step will find him quite different and perhaps less enjoyable.
I'd say it's influential to me, but I think I was influenced by it before I read it!
I recognize Williams's approach to church history as one with which I've already been inculcated: he influenced the people who influenced me, I think.
And those people did a good job of making Williams comprehensible for me.
Some of the leaps of his writing style, and his assumed vocabulary are too much for me still, but I could read this far better now than I could have even 5 years ago.
I so appreciate how personal this perspective is.
Remarkable. More than anything, this history is an attempt to ground Williams' unique theories of co-inherence, exchange, and substitution in the life and heritage of the Church. Surveying Church history through the lens of these themes (as well as the themes of the complementary Ways of Affirmation and Negation) is very effective, shedding fresh light on many of the major events in the life of the Church.
A fairly good poetic history of the church from the perspective of a member of that prestigious Inkling group, and friend of the more famous of the bunch, C.S. Lewis and J.R. Tolkien.
Good.
Another para-psychological thriller from the master.
I am giving this three stars based on my expectations in contrast with the actual content; I was expecting the content to be dealing more with the Holy Spirit and His role within the Church, but Williams really lays out a history of the Church, focusing around the conflicts and idea shifts it has undergone.
Focusing around the question of the content of the Gospel, Williams traces different groups and trends until the Church reached the point of his day, 1939.
A fascinating read. By one of the Inklings, an associate & friend of C. S. Lewis & J. R. R. Tolkien.
Fascinating, as expected. I am going to have to read it again before having much to say.
When I heard that Williams had written a history “of the Holy Spirit in the Church,” I tracked it down in Olivet’s library.
It’s a history of the Holy Spirit in the church.
I thought I might get a study of how the church has understood the Holy Spirit, the Third Person of the Trinity, throughout its history.
The motivating factor, the explanatory agent, throughout all of this is of course the vague and subtle and undeniable direction of the Holy Spirit.If Williams has one theme he wants to sell, it’s his idea of co-inherence.
Charles Williams' take on Church History: I found it much harder to understand than his book "Witchcraft", which feels rather like a companion to this work.
Central to this is his unique theological formulation of 'co-inherence' - that process by which humankind incubates the Kingdom of God.There is a lot of assumed knowledge he expects in his readers, which makes some parts of the text almost inaccessible to those outside the orbit of his intellect (including me).
However, a bit of background in Williams' theology, namely the formulations of co-inherence and the 'Way of Affirmation' versus the 'Negative Way', will open up much of this to a new reader, as will a prior reading of Dante's 'The Divine Comedy'.
To get the problems out of the way, William's writing is as turgid and confusing as usual.
Secondly, although it sometimes feels like going through a rummage sale, the work is scattered throughout with real pieces of interpretive gold, for example, his creative and lovely history of the church during the time of Acts.Finally, and most importantly, Williams is the right kind of ecumenist.
He clearly sees that different times, philosophies, and ways are all a result of the Holy Spirit's work in the church.
It's more whistling in the dark, because you don't read Charles Williams to set your feet on the firm rock of fact.
You do it because, after amassing all the facts, you're anxious to feel the rocks shift dramatically, to unleash the kinetic energy of all of that fact.
A good bit of the time, after living with some strange fact for a decade or so, you'll realize that Williams was right, or wrong, or (more often) romancing his sources.
Surely the most underrated author of the 20th Century, Charles Williams was a member of the illustrious "Inklings" of Oxford.
While J.R.R. Tolkien and C.S. Lewis are far more famous, they both admired the virtuosity and beautiful writing skill in their beloved friend Charles Williams.Among his greatest works, The Descent of the Dove is the glorious story of the Holy Spirit's work in the visible Church and how He, through her, begat astonishing change in the World as well.Williams narrative is well-paced and artfully written.
Charles William's gives us a very different Church History, one than moves like a rush of wind through the developments of Christendom, never stopping anywhere very long, but weaving a thread through it all, the thread of "co-inherence" and of "my Eros is crucified." This is essential historical reading, mainly because it is so perspectival.
There is no pretence; this is William's spirited and helpful view of it all, and he tells it that way.
Watch him ignore and disdain giants you love, and respect him all the more for it.
Watch him all the time maintain a balance in perspective an narrative that only comes through deep orthodoxy.
The Descent of the Dove mixes great commentary, poetic language, and sentences that jump out at you with a strong opinion that you should disagree with at some time in the narrative, narrow focus, and a seventy+ year old understanding of the history of the life of the church that rarely felt prophetic. Please do not make this your first or only entry into the topic of church history (if you do much of it will probably be incomprehensible anyway), read it responsibly after having a few opinions
The Descent of the Dove mixes great commentary, poetic language, and sentences that jump out at you with a strong opinion that you should disagree with at some time in the narrative, narrow focus, and a seventy+ year old understanding of the history of the life of the church that rarely felt prophetic. Please do not make this your first or only entry into the topic of church history (if you do much of it will probably be incomprehensible anyway), read it responsibly after having a few opinions of your own.
I was reading this and hope to get back to it eventually.It's a bit involved, but I'm sure it will be worth it in the long run--I love Charles Williams.I stopped reading this almost as soon as I made the original note.
Still hope to get back to it!
I love CW's spiritual thriller novels, and I really want to get into his nonfiction!Just as with "The Problem of Pain", I ended up putting this reading on hold.
After all this time, I would need to begin over again, something that isn't likely to happen any time soon.
If you know nothing about the history of Christianity, then read another book and then come back to this one. Not an event-by-event account of the church in time, it instead follows movements and developments of thought. Williams' language is almost poetic, at times dense, but definitely unique. Learned, theological, and chiefly concerned with the co-inherence of God and man, Williams presents the story of Christianity like no one else.
Clearly, the Holy Spirit is leading the world into the Anglican Communion. Other than that, an interesting book, and worth reading whatever your denominational background. It's an overview of church history, but theologically motivated, so more interested in orthodoxy than quite a few more historyish histories.
Intriguing, will have to go back to it later.
I enjoyed this rather idiosyncratic church history more than the novels written by Williams and probably would have appreciated the latter more if I'd read this first.
An epic theological read by one of the members of the Inklings.
Charles Williams' history of the Church brings his unique voice to non-fiction. He has great insight into how philosophical questions shaped the Church's development and continue to do so.
mega goed boek. zoiets heb ik nog nooit gelezen. je moet wel al vrij veel van kerkgeschiedenis afweten om er iets van te begrijpen , en ik begrijp zeker niet alles, maar ik vond het heel erg mooi
A brilliantly written exploration of church history as the history of the descent of the Holy Spirit.
A short review of Christendom by a poet, with an emphasis on those times in history when the Holy Spirit adjusted the rudder of complacency both in the Church and in her people.
