https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/8600.Eats_Shoots_Leaves
Bad punctuation can force an innocent animal to live outside the law. Now, instead of peacefully munching, it  EATS, SHOOTS, and LEAVES.  I proudly consider myself a punctuation martyr.  The setting is an ordinary Soviet elementary school, first grade. I am kicked out of the classroom and sent home with an angry note. My transgression - in my wide-eyed seven-year-old innocence I dared to correct my (very Soviet) teacher on her comma placement and a spelling mistake. This crime landed me on her "
Bad punctuation can force an innocent animal to live outside the law.
My transgression - in my wide-eyed seven-year-old innocence I dared to correct my (very Soviet) teacher on her comma placement and a spelling mistake.
(*) This was the beginning of my grammar  vigilante stickler life.
(**) In my defense, she is a language teacher.
And had a very enjoyable few hours reading the creation of a fellow grammar stickler.
And then developed a strong desire to join a militant wing of the Apostrophe Protection Society.
This book is a must-read for all the grammar and punctuation sticklers out there.
____________________________________________(based on a conversation earlier this morning with Jordan; apologies to Bob Dylan)Hey, Mr Semi-Colon Man: play a song for me!I'm not sleepy; and there ain't no place I'm going to;Hey, Mr Semi-Colon Man: play a song for me!In the jingle, jangle morning, I'll come, followin' you.Though I know that evenin's empire has returned into sand;Vanished from my hand;Left me blindly here, to stand, but still not sleeping;My weariness amazes me; I'm branded on my feet;I have no one to meet;And the ancient, empty street's too dead for dreaming.Hey, Mr Semi-Colon Man: play a song for me!I'm not sleepy; and there ain't no place I'm going to; Hey, Mr Semi-Colon Man: play a song for me!In the jingle, jangle morning, I'll come, followin' you.____________________________________________Seen yesterday in the window of a Geneva art gallery, this 1927 painting by Jean Arp entitled Point-Virgule ("semi-colon"):I wanted to buy it on the spot.
Who knew punctuation could be so entertaining?As someone who writes a fair bit (half a million words on Goodreads alone), I know my way around a sentence.
However, when this popped up on Amazon on the cheap, I was powerless to resist, like my dog on a piece of cat shit.In Eats, Shoots & Leaves, Lynn Truss takes us on a Bill Bryson-esque odyssey through a forest of commas, apostrophes, colons, semi-colons, and exclamation marks.
For grammarians and writers alike, Eats, Shoots & Leaves is a fun yet useful book about fairly boring subject.
This is a delightful screed on the demise of punctuation in contemporary expression. Truss bemoans the loss of knowledge or of interest in proper use of language. Truss is a Brit and the usages have not been modified for the American edition of the book. A must and an enjoyable read for anyone who cares about our language, for any reader. In addition to gripes about the slovenly way that we write, Truss offers some history on punctuation.
When I meet a pretty young thing that I might want to break bread with on occasion, I'm filled with anxiety over that first email: will she write in complete sentences with capital letters and periods and paragraphs, or will I be left reading a ton of LOLs and dashes and ellipses?
I appreciated most the history of punctuation she peppered throughout the book along with her very dry British humor and the delight with which she plays with her own writing, saving the colon and semi-colon until she is actually talking about them; keeping the hyphen and dash under-wraps and then exploding with them at the perfect time.If you're a word nerd, you must read Eats, Shoots & Leaves.
Maybe it's because I suffer from a lack of punctuation know-how!>?>:_; but this book irked me!
But, most sticklers for punctuation that I know are people who want to lord their intelligence over other people, but don't have much to recommend their intelligence other than a knowledge of when to use a semicolon.
Read it if your punctuation is good and you want to feel smug.Incidentally, someone actually gifted me this book, because they know I have lofty degrees and figured this might be a good book for smart people.
Hah. Smart people like me need a good reference grammar and style manual, not a "funny" book on punctuation.
Lynne Truss pulls off the impressive feat of pumping about 20 pages of expository writing full of enough hot air to go into orbit (or at least top the Bestsellers list for several weeks).
First, Truss comes across as such a pretentious, self-important jerk that it makes the reading often unbearable.
I hold most all my own writing to high standards, including this book review, because it matters to me.
Truss would have benefited from revisiting The Elements of Style (to which she pays a passing nod at the end) and thoroughly edited her book on everything besides the punctuation, especially the organization.
But that's all to be expected; I'm an English teacher, and people like me are supposed to read books like this.
The weird thing about this book, a book dedicated to punctuation, of all things, is that it was popular with people who weren't English teachers.
In a language like English, so dependent on rhythm, timing and stress, punctuation is the substitute for our voice.
It tells us when to speed up and slow down, which points need to be stressed and given special attention, and which points (like this one) can be safely disregarded, if one so chooses.It would be very easy for Ms. Truss' obvious frustration with the misuse of punctuation to overwhelm her and poison the book.
See above the stars of this book, taking a bow; the apostrophe, the comma, the semicolon and the colon, the exclamation mark, the question mark, quotes, various types of brackets, the dash, the ellipsis and the hyphen (along with italics).
Though I would say that no one should lose sleep over the exact place to put that comma, or whether a colon or dash should be used, one cannot say that sometimes it does not become damn important, as the following sentence illustrates.Woman, without her man, is nothing.
“The humble comma can keep the sentence aloft all right, like this, UP, for hours if necessary, UP, like this, UP, sort- of bouncing, and then falling down, and then UP it goes again.”+++Stop me if you’ve heard this one before.
A panda walks into a café.
He goes to, um, uh, Niagara Falls.
And this panda walks directly up to the edge of the rushing water, where he allows himself to plummet over the side to the churning froth below, wildly gesticulating with his arms all the way down.
We know the difference between who's & whose & whom, they're & their & there, the correct plural for words or the fact that some words exist only in either singluar or plural and correctly use the comma, semicolon, full stop, exclamation mark and question mark.
And by god, we'll make you know the difference, too!
Lives can depend on it; or at least my sanity (and therfore the survival of whoever made me lose it).What is especially strange, no, downright scary, is the fact that I know most grammar and punctuation rules better than many a native speaker.
Full of humor and information, it explains some of the easier nuances to punctuation in a useful and engaging manner.“The reason it’s worth standing up for punctuation is not that it’s an arbitrary system of notation known only to an over-sensitive elite who have attacks of the vapours when they see it misapplied.
The reason to stand up for punctuation is that without it there is no reliable way of communicating meaning… Punctuation directs you how to read, in the way musical notation directs a musician how to play.“************************************Surprisingly, the rest of my review is actually on topic.
After he finishes eating the sandwich, the panda pulls out a gun and shoots the waiter, and then stands up to go.“Hey!” shouts the manager.
Eats shoots and leaves.”Ms Truss starts with the unfortunate apostrophe.
How many sons are there one wonders?When Ms Truss was on Radio 4 making a series of programmes about punctuation, she met John Richards from the Apostrophe Protection Society.
I agree with Ms Truss, we would obviously look on his use of this punctuation as sheer insanity but he’s dealing with T.E. Lawrence, who he refers to as “Luruns” (sounds like a place to me as we have “Laruns” not too far away from where I live in France).
I really don't see what all the fuss was about this book--the author didn't seem particularly knowledgeable, and her "zero-tolerance" approach seems to do more to promote intolerance than to promote clarity.In particular, her distaste for "emoticons" seems entirely inconsistent with her fascination with the origins of punctuation--it's as if she thinks of punctuation as a dead thing that _used to be_ alive, but now she doesn't want anyone to disturb the corpse.
This book was a waste of my time. Think of an old guy yelling at a bunch of kids to get off his lawn. Then put that sentence in really good grammar, and that is this book.It's overwhelmingly pretentious. As far as I am concerned, it generally ignores the way language moves to apparent regression when in fact it is merely changing, as it always does.
I have no formal training (other than my school years) pertaining to punctuation, and if you were to ask me to define the rules pertaining to when a semicolon should be used, I'd probably guess at something close to right...
However, many of the rules of good punctuation use are common sense (at least I think so) and so I think I edge into the stickler zone.
There was some really interesting info in here, and I especially liked the historical info regarding invention and usage of punctuation over time.
Sanctimonious prudery that doesn't even get everything right, smartly gutted by Louis Menand in a withering New Yorker review. Meh.
This book is a witty rant about the use and misuse of punctuation.
We pat pat pat ourselves on the back with being so in accord with this funny woman and her nit-picking usage of grammar.Ahhhh, except this is the nub of the thing.
Lynne Truss in this book deals only with punctuation - that thin layer of tasty icing on top of the vast, dense, impenetrable cake that is grammar.
For all her huffiness, Ms Truss is a surprisingly generous mentor.All in all this book is a good fun read.
I thoroughly enjoyed this short, funny book about British punctuation.
It is on pages 9 & 10 and is the same letter, but the punctuation is placed differently; thus, altering the meaning--drastically.
Check it out:Letter #1"Dear Jack,I want a man who knows what love is all about.
People who are not like you admit to being useless and inferior.
You have ruined me for other men.
I can be forever happy - will you let me be yours?JillLetter #2Dear Jack,I want a man who knows what love is.
All about you are generous, kind, thoughtful people, who are not like you.
For other men I yearn!
And while Truss' tone may often be light and playful (even a little frivolous), this book is hip-deep in interesting historical background, usages and common mistakes, and entertaining examples of real-life punctuation boo-boos that, if you care at all, will actually make you tense up in indignation.She also has a friendly dig at Australians and our tendency to turn statements into questions, which the British fans of Neighbours have picked up, much to her chagrin:Increasingly people are (ignorantly) adding question marks to sentences containing indirect questions, which is a bit depressing, but the reason is not hard to find: blame the famous upward inflection caught by all teenage viewers of Neighbours in the past twenty years.
Have I left my sentence hanging on a cliff-edge with a poorly placed dash?Even worse is the feeling that occurs when coming across such a cliff-edge while reading; a stomach lurching queasiness that something doesn't feel right, and if only that editor had paid a little more attention we wouldn't be in this mess!I've been told off by my (dyslexic -I really can be an awful person) partner for rearranging his commas when in fact all he wanted to know dammit is if necessary was spelt right (something I'm admittedly rather less certain about than the placement of those poor little punctuation marks).I won't even start on the state of the average Facebook post or blog comment.
I thought the idea of a virus that prevents email with improper grammar from being sent was fantastic. The virus ought to be endorsed by all colleges, corporations, and curmudgeons; at least it ought to be stamped with the Trusted Application status once it has been hatched and flown. Of course, that might mean we'll have a great internet dark age when almost everyone will have gone silent. Alas. It's a fun book, I recommend it to everyone.
You may notice that maybe it's not the best idea to read a book about english grammar in russian language.
But worry not, I had a really good translation that was created with the help of many educated british ladies and gentlemen; moreover the original quotes were saved in translation and I had a bonus in a form of two phrases instead of one.
There were times I couldn't really understand the author and her obsessive love with punctuation, and considering the punctuation mark in the wrong place almost an unforgivable crime.
In particular, "zero tolerance" makes punctuation an end in itself, rather than an aid to meaning, which seems back to front.
It also makes no allowance for context and audience.
However, she gave punctuation and grammar a voice, and, however briefly, made people think about language, ambiguity and meaning, which is certainly good.
Or it would be, if it didn't fuel the fire in the bellies of extreme prescriprivists.A broader and more balanced book on this and related subjects is David Crystal's "The Fight for English How Language Pundits Ate, Shot, and Left" (http://www.goodreads.com/review/show/...).
Lynn Truss laments the misuse of our punctuation marks, and the possible future demise of a couple, such as the semi-colon.
Some of the examples of terrible punctuation use will make you cringe, while others will make you laugh.
There are lots of literary examples of certain writers who abhorred certain punctuation marks, and others who loved them.
She does explain the main uses of the punctuation marks for anyone wanting a quick refresher course.
I've had to re-read this review a couple of times just to make sure there aren't any punctuation mistakes in it!
When was the last time you read a book where you could literally say, "This book has changed my life." Eat, Shoots and Leaves by Lynn Truss is one such book.
I am sharing this background so that when I say Truss explains all of the punctuation rules presented in her book you will know I mean really clear.Truss has illustrated that there is a time and place for the dash and double-dash in all good literature.
In addition, Truss includes abundant historical information about the punctuation marks she discusses ranging from the first names for parentheses to the first appearance of an apostrophe in printed documents.I would recommend this book highly to anyone with an interest in writing.
I read this last year and as someone who loves words - and punctuation; it was both amusing and informative, in fact I'm making several purposeful mistakes here as I tell you all about how interesting this book was...
Yes I really enjoyed this book: and it's insight into the proper use of punctuation!
In fact I tend on the whole to often humorously correct such misspellings and incorrect uses of language procedures.
The positive of misspelling will always be the humour I can find in it at least.If you're like me when it comes to words and grammar odds are you'll like this book.
I read this book a very long time ago and about the only thing I remember about it is a cartoon of nine live Roman soldiers and one dead one lying on the ground beside them.
And one of the soldiers turning to the other one and saying, “This decimation thing isn’t nearly as bad as they make it out to be, is it?” And I remember seeing that cartoon and laughing at it.
And of course, the cartoon isn’t actually in the book; it is just described in the book.
– and I thought a picture told a thousand words…
I have no idea why this book enjoyed the success that it did. It, bored, the pants, off, me frankly.
For writers who have taken on larger projects, i.e. books, this lesson in punctuation carries a sting.
For someone who went to school through that “period of abysmal undereducating in literacy,” I know what she’s talking about.
As Lynne Truss quotes, punctuation is “a courtesy designed to help readers to understand a story without stumbling.”Having read this book, I’ve decided to read it every year from now on, to become a stickler and to carry a black vivid marker so I can make corrections to any offending sentences.Steps off soap box.
Which is rather nice in a book about punctuation.
