https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/308251.Donnie_Brasco
I know this book is a watershed in the history of Mob literature, and that Pistone's investigatory efforts were a breaking point for the Mob. But this book of his just leaves me dozing.
Everyone blathers on about how great this book is, but I don't get it.
It was made into a far worse movie, incidentally.
One of the things the book does have going for it is that Pistone explains at great length what undercover agents can and can't do.
The movie completely ignores that, but then...hey, who cares, right?
At that time I read it as just a short peek into the life of the wiseguys, but when I bought my Kindle, I downloaded a sample of it and then bought the book.Joe Pistone, an FBI agent, didn't really aim for six years in the Mafia, far from it.
What happened was that his undercover role started gaining the trust of criminals, and within a year and a half, he had the trust of his first mobster friends.
Posing as a jewel thief and shylock, Pistone aka Donnie Brasco started getting his toe into the door of ever bigger operations, such as vending machines, gambling clubs, and the like.
Having read the first book 'Donnie Brasco:My Undercover Life In The Mafia' a few years ago I thought I'd give this follow up novel a try a short time after.While there is absolutely no denying the bravery, determination & mental toughness of someone prepared to go through such an ordeal I personally didn't find the book the easiest to read.
Well this has been my 2nd read of its pages, the first was long enough ago I remembered very little of the book this time round.Maybe in a few years I might consider it once again - but there're so many others I've not read!
One of my favorite books. It read like a movie and being a fan of Mafia history, this was informative. I often recommend this to students who are trying to get into reading, but hate reading big novels. They like the story line. The movie butchered the book.
Pistone's book was not an exception.
He worked undercover inside the Mafia for six years.
His work alone was able to bring about over one hundred convictions from the underworld.
While the authorities and the public were bursting with excitement, FBI agent Joseph D.
It was really good police work.
I was impressed with the professionalism that Mr. Pistone employed when doing this work.
He had to infiltrate the bad guys and was expected to remain credible for the trial and tbe jury.
It can go a long way to those working organized crimes all over tbe world.
Pistone spent so many years undercover, separated from his family, working on taking the Mob down, and he categorically states that the experience didn't affect him emotionally.
Not in an asshole kind of way either, he just states it flat and goes on to describe another Mafia operation - which are described in a detailed and fascinating way.I left this book feeling totally disillusioned from the romantic Mob movie image, which is probably a good thing.
The Mafia deals with intercepting shipments of goods, mostly.
Probably you have to work harder not to get caught, which is probably part of the attraction as well.
Bought it because I'm a huge fan of mafia stories, and what better book to read (I thought), than a real-life story. Though the book starts off well, and there's a decent amount of info about the families, I could've done with more. The writing isn't too gripping, and the second half of the book has too much of Lefty, which becomes a bit of a bore. But I shall watch the movie though.

Something that the book Donnie Brasco written by FBI Agent Joseph D.
This book brings the reader into the menacing life of an FBI Undercover agent, who has to infiltrate himself in the mafia.
This is the type of book that only interest readers that like cold, hard, facts about reality, and have a lot of time in their hands to read.
A wiseguy (Mafiosi) sees things if there are wiseguy things to see:how a person acts how they carry themselves; and what difference is paid to them".So, read DONNIE BRASCO BY JOSEPH D.
Joe Pistone spent 6 years as an undercover agent for the FBI, working to gather intelligence on the Mafia.
Up to that point in time, the FBI had never done an undercover mission lasting more than a few weeks.
Pistone's mission was scheduled to last 6 months, and ended up lasting 6 years.
Joe Pistone, under the alias "Donnie Brasco" gathered enough evidence to put over a hundred members of the mafia behind bars with sentences ranging between 20 and 100 years.
Several mafia members (the ones who worked closest with Brasco) where killed by the mafia themselves.
3 STARS"Posing as jewel thief "Donnie Brasco," FBI agent Joseph D.
Pistone carried out the most audacious sting operation ever, working undercover for six years to infiltrate the flamboyant community of mafia soldiers, "connected guys," captains, and godfathers.
Now his unforgettable eyewitness account brings to pulsating life the entire world of wiseguys—their code of honor and their treachery, their wives, girlfriends and whores, their lavish spending and dirty dealings." (From Amazon)It is a great autobiography of a straight arrow FBI agent who goes undercover into a mob family and finds himself sympathetic to the underworld.

But annoyingly, it felt like it was trying to come across as a novel rather than an in-depth account of what Joseph D.
Pistone went through while undercover, also because of this is started to feel like it was going on too long.
By the 300 page mark I felt myself getting bored and just wanting him to get on with it instead of telling us every conversation (Which I also question how, since he was undercover for 6 years, I fail to see how he can recall such full and vivid conversations.
Just annoyingly drags on a bit too long.
Enthralling!Just amazing!Forget the film (which is great) but that Joseph D Pistone spent SO long undercover in the New York Mafia and gained such confidences is incredible! With every chapter, your respect for the man just grows and grows. We are talking COURAGE and then we are talking what THIS MAN did!It's above and beyond!It's a very important book and deserves to be read by a great number of people!
This was a very very interesting book. I saw the movie (based on the first book) before I read this though so right away I could see how they differed...besides Pistone out and out saying how they did. In any case, Pistone really had his shit together, and based on the undercover stories I've read (in LCN and the like)... he seems to be the most hardcore of them all... nice work.
An amazing story of, at that time, unprecedented undercover work. The line that Pistone managed to walk was unbelievable and the risks were great. I grew a little tired of such a factual narrative, but he stayed true to his story.
This isn't really my thing. The writing is quite poor and repetitive, which may be based on its real event sources. It does give some insight into how organized crime really works.On a side note, it is amazing how much information on the current mafia exists on wikipedia.
در صورت تمایل، جهت مشخصات فیلمی که بر اساس این کتاب ساخته شده است؛ میتوانید از لینک زیر استفاده بفرماییدhttp://www.imdb.com/title/tt0119008
در صورت تمایل، جهت مشخصات فیلمی که بر اساس این کتاب ساخته شده‌ است؛ می‌توانید از لینک زیر استفاده بفرماییدhttp://www.imdb.com/title/tt0119008
Great book and the movie is faithful to the book as well. I recommend reading the book first. The movie is excellent though.
This book claims that the mafia is virtually destroyed. Primarily due to RICO cases. If that's the case then this book really is an insiders account of a watershed in NYC history.
Donnie Brasco, written by Paul Attanasio, based on the books by Joseph D. Pistone and Richard Woodley10 out of 10Notes and thoughts on other books are available at:- https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list... and http://realini.blogspot.ro/This film?- “Forget about it!!”As Donnie Brasco explains when asked by his fellow FBI agents, this is a catch phrase, leitmotif used by the mobsters.They used for a car that was not good, for a meal that they enjoyed and was extraordinary or just to say…forget a
Donnie Brasco, written by Paul Attanasio, based on the books by Joseph D.
Pistone and Richard Woodley10 out of 10Notes and thoughts on other books are available at:- https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list...
The story itself is very interesting and the bravery of the author second to none, but the execution is just so bland.
Huge stretches of repetitive dialogue, random inserts of paragraphs ...
a good example of this, a paragraph inserted at the end of a chapter describes how Sonny Black wants to start a bakery using water from a different part of the city...
I was hoping the big reveal at the end would lead to some really interesting insight or trial stories, instead it’s all crammed into the final couple of chapters.
Interesting insight into the life of an undercover FBI agent. While the material can seem choppy, jumping from scene to scene at a blurring pace, it keeps you engaged. I was always waiting for the chance that Agent Pistone (Donnie Bransco) would have his cover blown. To last several years under cover with the Mafia and make it out generally unscathed is stunning. Equally impressive is how he juggled this life with the Mafia with his life at home. Makes you appreciate the sacrifices the men and women in our justice system have made.
Це найкраща документальна книга про роботу під прикриттям, яку я коли небудь читав. Захоплює відданість справі агента ФБР, який поклав на шальки терезів 10 років життя задля того, щоб нанести важкий удар по мафії, як загрозі для суспільства. Служити суспільству кожного дня ризикуючи власним життям та вирвавши із власного життя сім’ю.
A truly fascinating look at what may have been the ultimate FBI undercover operation. Getting an agent on the list to be "made" was quite the coup. It overall had a realistic, almost gritty feel which I really enjoyed. At times, the staccato prose let me struggling to figure out exactly who was speaking during the elements of back & forth dialog; a minor nit though.
An informative book about his commendable undercover operation and the life of an mafia associate. It's detailed with lots of conversations. Sometimes it was a bit dull, but there were a few exciting moments. You can skip the movie.
Not as good as the original work on account of the strong bias and agenda the author has in play here. It has some interesting revelations none the less, my favorite being, that wiseguys don't work on Mothers's Day :)
Definitely one of my most favorite books. I love how everything written in book is so real--the events, the conversations, the happenings, the frustrations. Informative especially about the mafia and its inside jobs. The movie is great, but the book is perfect.
I found it interesting because I find the inner structure fascinating but the author’s casual annoyance at being away from his family for 6 years was disturbing to me. I’m not sure I like this guy very much.
