https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/8016836-rickshaw-boy
A classic of Chinese literature that protratis the simplest of quests: a rickshaw-pulling boy whose sole dream in life is as simple as owning hsi own cart.
And that is precisely my point: what is the difference between a boy who works and wants to own his own way of living, versus a boy who sells his body, like I did, on the streets of San Juan, Puerto Rico, in order to pay his college tuition and become better?
It's about Puerto Rico too.
Being an individualist, a man who works hard to get money for himself, the way his goal has always been directed towards himself, whether he’s saving up for a new rickshaw or avoiding having anything to do with his abominable wife Huniu, Xiangzi’s self-serving ways are frowned upon by the Chinese society who regards communal or social welfare as the most important goal which every person or Chinese citizen should strive for.
So tragic and moving. A searing social critique of conditions during China's chaotic war and revolutionary years. I don't care if people accuse it of being deliberately manipulative or not, this was and is a memorable read for me. It is not hard to imagine that millions faced even worse than this during those tumultuous times.Final rating: 4.5*Note: This is the latest edition translated by Howard Goldblatt, who did such an excellent job with Mo Yan's 'Sandalwood Death'. There were at least two previous translations before this, which were reportedly butchered to suit Western tastes.
The Grapes of Wrath  set in Beijing, but without the stratospheric commentary from Steinbeck's godlike narrator.  Rickshaw  is, as the forward points out, the social realist work the Socialists of the 1930s wanted to write but never did. It's a stark and muscular read as well as a great introduction to Chinese culture and literature of the Republic between the two world wars. (If I were to teach economics, I'd have my class read this and  Mildred Pierce  as clearheaded rebuttals to the dismal s

I was not fond of The Jungle but Rickshaw Boy tells the story from a Communist & Chinese point of view that shows the sorrow and futility of individualism during those times.
He wants to work honestly and hard and for himself.
Chinese society of the 30s seems to frown upon these traits and Xiangzi's attempts to better himself are thwarted again and again.
Although Xiangzi cannot live against society, this is still a good, enjoyable read.
This is an interesting story set against 1930s Communist society and tells a story of the times.
1.25Eh.
I first encountered the world of rickshaw pullers when I read The City of Joy.
"Camel" Xiangzi, like the main character in that book, is one of China's poorest: an illiterate orphan, he goes to Beiping seeking work, but finds that heavy labour as a coolie is not for him.
And yet for a large part of the novel, he (like many people) doesn't seem to recognise his lucky breaks when they come by: there always seems to be someone to provide an option, a chance--and Camel just goes with the flow.
The author's disillusionment with his own life choices is reflected in the text, but in a highly readable way.
No Brasil, a obra foi publicada pela editora Estação Liberdade em 2017.O livro nos traz a história de Xiangzi, um humilde, honesto e ingênuo puxador de riquixá que sai do campo para tentar a vida na cidade de Beijing durante as décadas de 20 e 30.Otimista e determinado, Xiangzi possui um único sonho: conseguir economizar alguns yuans (dinheiro chinês) para comprar o seu próprio riquixá, mesmo que para isso tenha que trabalhar dia e noite sem descanso.Embora Xiangzi seja um dos melhores em sua profissão, uma série de complicações surge ao longo de sua vida, desiludindo-o aos poucos e mostrando-lhe que às vezes não basta ser bom e correto para ter sorte e alcançar seus sonhos.A obra retrata com nitidez as aspirações, frustações e decadência do homem.
Only during your middle years, when you're strong and unafraid of either hunger or hard work, can you live like a human being." This is the essence of Lao She's Chinese classic novel Rickshaw Boy. Xiangzi is an impoverished rickshaw puller in his twenties who is ambitious enough to make sacrifices and save up to improve his lot in life, only to have his hopes and dreams dashed over and over again.
Ultimately, Rickshaw Boy is the story of the hopelessness that results from extreme poverty.
Rickshaw Boy is a Chinese story and a successful portal into 1930s China.
The story of Hsiang Tzu in Rickshaw depicted the hard way of life in Peking during the 1930’s.
The story opened my eyes to how harsh life was for the average person in China during these times.
This is an example of determinism, one of the themes of naturalism in the novel.
In several of the modern Chinese novels I've read, determinism seems to be a big theme.
The novel is often times frustrating because Hsiang Tzu was a good character and such a hard worker, but his surrender to fate leads him down many unfortunate roads (pun intended).
Xiangzi wants to swim upstream and be a self-sustaining individualist in a culture based on the collective.
It is, of course, hopeless unless you are a salmon.
The parable that this book is actually sides with the collective.
We read it in translation with the mindset that the individual is supreme but of course it was written from the other perspective and is a critique of the philosophy of individualism.
Thus, Xiangzi is in the wrong and should be striving to work for the community, not to better himself.
Najdivnejšia ľavicová agitka, akú som kedy čítal. Ak ma malo toto prinútiť postaviť sa po boku Maoa a šíriť svetlejšie zajtrajšky, tak je to dosť smutné. Na vine nešťastia hlavnej postavy nebola spoločnosť, ale jeho absencia kontaktu s mozgom. O sile kultúrnej revolúcii vás to presvedčí asi tak, ako Sulíkove blogy o pravicovom racionalizme.
انني حقاً لا أجد متعة في القراءة عن آلام و مصائب الناس؛ فها هو ذا الأب "الصنديد" يبيع إبنته "المحظوظة الصغيرة" لضابط شرطة بثمن بخس ثم لاتجد الأم طعماً للراحة بعد فقدان ابنتها فتدخل في عراك مع زوجها وينتهي الأمر بطفليها الصغيرين يبكيان بجانب جثتها.
ثم تعود "المحظوظة الصغيرة" بعد ان غادر الضابط المدينة ولم يعد يحتاجها، الى المنزل لتجد اخويها يمسكان بيديها وقد اغرورقت اعينهم بالدموع.
أخيراً سوف يحصلان على شخص يمسك محل الأم.
أما الآن وقد سكنت فتاة تملك المال فقد اتى من يصرخ بأطيب انواع الأطعمة فتذهب "الفتاة النمرة" لتشتري مالذ وطاب وتشعر بالفخر والعلو وهي تمشي بين جيرانها الفقراء ثم تقفل الباب.
There is a little bit of Zola in Lao She. The later is giving us here a dark and accusing tale where despite all his good will, the main character, Xiangzi, will never manage to escape his condition as a rickshaw boy, one of the lowest in the society of that time.Xingzi is introduced at first as a young, strong man, honest and hard-working, albeit a bit naive.
From a young, innocent man, the society makes a desenchented, amoral, wreak of a man, ready to everything in order to get a few coins.Lao She is presenting here a bleak society and a fierce criticism of the Chinese society of his time.
A surprisingly enjoyable classic. It was interesting to read of what China must have been like so long ago and how rickshaw boys made a living.I'm not sure some of the parts I found funny were meant to be, or if my American sense of humor found amusement in it, but some parts of the book was just downright hilarious!I even liked the ending!I expected something far more bitter than the happy, so I was pleasantly surprised.
I really wanted to like this book, but the book is depressing and I couldn't relate to any of the characters. There is not one glimmer of hope in this book for anyone that is poor- you were poor, you work yourself to death, and you die poor. On the other hand, if you were born in the middle class or upper classes....
Review here: http://blog.semcoop.com/2010/09/24/ri...
I am thinking I will probably edit this review in the future, when I have learned more about Chinese society.
It is surely the most depressing novel I've ever read, which says quite a lot if you know me and my penchant for hopelessness (as well as my 5-year foray into Japanese literature).
While I understand the collectivist nature of most Asian societies, I have never seen anything so blatant in even pre-WWII Japanese literature.
I'm sure the comparison is not a fair one, but it's all I have to go on.
Xiangzi is a country boy who moves to Beiping (Beijing).
He works as a rickshaw puller, and through hard work, saving, clean living, and honesty, he plans to save until he can buy his own rickshaw and eventually own a rickshaw stand.
Despite his best efforts, he is thwarted every time he starts to get ahead, through no fault of his own, and eventually gives up his grand dreams, and then his basic dreams as well.An easy read, but fairly repetitive and obvious once you catch on to the pattern.
Not going to review this because it was read for class but needless to say, I was not a huge fan. Could be because of the class? Not sure. Just not my cup of tea.
The book's dust jacket describes Rickshaw Boy as "darkly comic".
I'll have to take the writer's word for that; protagonist rickshaw man Xiangzi seems equally screwed whether he's out for himself or connected with family and community.Despite all of this, it's often a very good book.
It's easy to root for Xiangzi to finally buy his own damned rickshaw even though it becomes apparent pretty quickly that universal forces will continually align to negate his Sisyphean efforts.
Here, Xiangzi is full of outrage over socioeconomic inequality, which may actually be the book's critique of individualism (capitalism?), but both the character and the narrator are pretty morally relative when it comes to domestic horror.
Lao She is one of the most celebrated modern Chinese authors, and with Rickshaw Boy, he confirmed his status as one of China's best novelists and storytellers.
Telling the story of Xiangzi, a man of simple needs but with great ambition, who despite all his best efforts is constantly thwarted by the cruel vicissitudes of life.
It is a scathing critique of self-reliance and individualism so foreign to traditional Chinese society; throughout the novel, Xiangzi has many opportunities to socialise, to make friends and allies yet scorns them in his pursuit of his own improvement.
This power that Lao She has in writing proves him to be one of China's best authors and Rickshaw Boy his crowning achievement.
As soon as any positive trait or event is dangled out in the story you can place sure money the author will soon get busy trampling it down to ruin.
This happens so often and consistently that it's hard not to suspect the author of taking a kind of bitter, gleeful pleasure in grinding everything good down into misery and failure.
The attempt to reverse the negative tone of the entire book with three positive sentences at the end is hardly convincing.
(what else can you expect with this kind of foreshadowing?)"But most bright hopes come to strange and bitter endings, and Happy Boy's were no exception to the rule."Sure, it's capably written.
This translation seemed so dull - at first it was like reading a newspaper article or a primer (see Jane run).
It's hard to tell whether this uneven writing was the translator trying to pad the story or if it was originally written this way by the author.
Maybe a little "quaint" would have improved the story and been more in line with what the author wanted to say.The story is about the downward spiral of a rickshaw puller which parallels the demoralizing troubles many people suffer these days.
The book describes what was before the Chinese revolution a typical tale of a rickshaw man and what must have happened (and possibly happens) to them in the millions.
Of course, people like that where and are not only in China and it is once again, a good depiction why desperate people are swepped up in revolutions, political unrest or these days false religious leaders.The book describes small town China before the Revolution from the eyes of a rickshaw man and it is very well done.
A bleak glimpse into the miserable existence of the poorest in pre-revolution China. The continuous tides of hope, effort and disappointment simultaneously offers the reader an insight into the harsh realities of representing the society's lowest rungs, as well as exhibiting the author's revulsion towards the existing social structure.Going through the translation, however, is a tedious affair at times. It can be imagined that much of the linguistic richness is lost in the process.
I find that the main character is very naive and innocent. at times I felt like whacking his head.what I like about this book is it pretty much describe the era real well. what I didn't like was that it concentrate too much on the main character. felt a bit bired at times
I thought this book was a great window into a very different and interesting culture. I felt empathy for Xiangzi in his unlucky turn of events. The book started to drag toward the end, but I very much enjoyed reading it... I found myself putting it down and picking it back up again.
Beware: extremely depressing.. do not read if you are feeling depressed already. But this book is AMAZING and one cannot come away from it without a clear picture of oppression.
I read this book years ago and the protagonist and many scenes remain. Highly recommended.
