https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2752559-the-biography-of-florence-nightingale
Interesting "brief life" story of Nightingale by the very gifted Lytton Strachey. In the 21st century one reads while shaking your head at the privation of any sanitary measures in hospitals until this woman came along and pushed for change - and this is just 150 fifty years ago - to say she revolutionized nursing and hospital care is no overstatement.
It is hard to find biographies that bring the subject to life. This is one of those few.
Nightingale, the bottom line can be read in a brief time.Considering that I knew next to nothing about Florence Nightingale (and that I work in nursing)...This is an important book.
For we the readers do receive a clear picture of the state of nursing prior to the Nightingale Impact and the motivations for her to do what she did.
Imagine Florence Nightingale actually resorting to name calling and even engaging into fisticuffs!
But the brevity, I feel, takes away any excuse of people in the nursing field not reading it.
Love to read a good book about an amazing woman--who had great vision and worked hard to make it happen.
Interesting book about a person who accomplished much.
Mjög áhugaverð lesning um einstaka konu. Las bókina reyndar í gamalli Íslenskri þýðingu sem skýrir kannski að stjörnurnar eru aðeins þrjár.
Often my favorite reading is in the genre of biography or auto biography. This is a book about one of those people who made a significant difference in the world. The author presented her in a light that is usually not considered by those of us who think of Florence Nightingale as the ultimate healer. I was surprised by those negative characteristics that sometimes dominated her behavior and yet I admired her commitment, dedication, and sacrifice to what she held dear. Well worth reading.
Direct, concise, and unembellished, this quick-read biography of Florence Nightingale was wonderful. Her merciful work in Scutari was a marvel, of course, but equally fascinating was the account of the obsessive drive that propelled her through decades and cost her health and the lives of her associates. She really was a phenomenal woman.
I love how this book was written. The author did a wonderful job of bringing Miss Nightingale to life, in a way the wasn't fanciful or only touching on her gifts and strengths, but also giving a glimpse at her struggles and weaknesses that are so human.
