https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/15818362-into-the-darkest-corner
No exaggeration.This book is a dark, psychological thriller that chronicles the tale of a relationship between the young Catherine Bailey and a handsome, charismatic man called Lee who slowly, gradually, turns into a monster.
It's a disturbing story that doesn't skimp on violent details, which might make it something you'd want to avoid if you are particularly sensitive to scenes of domestic abuse and rape.Haynes offers up one of the most effective uses of alternating past/present narratives that I've ever read.
The present part of the story is set after Catherine has escaped and Lee has been charged - but he has also just been released from prison.
It felt like it was written from two diferent persons p.o.v. The one before, that was young as silly, doing stupid stuff, going out with friends and having fun.
I know she told that it happened, but how come her friends had a different explanation, that sounded more logical than hers?I was going back and forward.
I felt sorry for the Stuart.- Warning, there might be some spoilers -There was a point in the book, where it reminded me a little of the Consequences.
But the way the book ended still left me feeling like I read just half of the story...Amazing!
Violência Doméstica - Um Flagelo IntemporalQuando lemos ou ouvimos notícias sobre mulheres que foram de alguma forma violentadas pelos respectivos "life partners" é perfeitamente admissível que na nossa mente ecoe uma questão muito simples:Como Aconteceu?Tratando-se na sua maioria de casos em que os envolvidos se relacionaram de comum acordo, perguntamo-nos como raio sucederam essas versões reais da fábula do Capuchinho Vermelho devorado (subentenda-se violentado) pelo Lobo Mau!...Elizabeth Haynes desempenhou no passado, o cargo de Analista na Polícia.
Aí, teve oportunidade de lidar com casos autênticos de violência doméstica que inspiraram esta obra, conferindo-lhe realismo.
I'm so glad I read this book.
It got me out of a book rut!
The main character, Catherine Bailey, tries to overcome her trauma in the present while still dealing with the scary fact that her ex-boyfriend, Lee, who almost killed her is still very much alive.
I really enjoyed reading about her struggle to overcome the PTSD and OCD that was triggered by this this horrible man.
She was a great character that I was able to sympathize with.
This book had me hooked from the very beginning.
This book is rated highly by many of my Goodreads friends so I immediately put it on hold through C/W Mars and forgot all about it until I got that wonderful email telling me it was ready for me to download.
While the relationship starts off simply enough as time goes by Cathy starts to become afraid of Lee and his erratic temper.
If this book had been 300 pages it likely would of got at least 4 or maybe even 5 stars from me but at this length and with the amount of skimming I did 3 stars it is!
When Catherine Bailey meets the charismatic and handsome Lee, she just knows she's found a winner.
But she soon discovers a darker side to Lee. He is controlling, obsessive and constantly playing little mind games.
Catherine finds herself growing more and more afraid of him, so with no other options, she plans her escape.
Finally Cathy has hope again, she is feeling better and her friendship with Stuart seems to be growing into something more.
Lee is being release from jail.
Catherine's story is told through past and present POVs. Most of the story felt like an authentic portrayal of obsession and domestic abuse.
I am really glad I took Norma's recommendation and read this one.I found The Darkest Corner to be a dark, disturbing, and interesting book.
The story is told in alternating chapters switching timelines with the before when once lively, fun loving and party girl Catherine meets handsome, charming and mysterious Lee and we follow their relationship as it declines into violence and the after, where we see Catherine is now struggling with OCD and PTSD giving us a good sense of the burdens of both.
I recommend to anyone who loves a good psychological thriller but with caution as there is some violence.
Oh, and he's in undercover law enforcement -- another cliche -- so that the "heroine" conveniently finds herself unable to escape.
Then there's Stuart, the new love interest, and (another convenient setup) a psychologist, who also doesn't seem to believe Cathy's fears, excusing them as a part of her OCD behavior.
The only character who sides with Cathy, genuinely so, is a policewoman who doesn't appear until nearly the END of the novel.
One would think she'd have an idea how to recreate a believable novel about domestic abuse rather than a Lifetime Movie of the week wannabe.
My definition of a good read?
A book that you can't put down, that has you reading at all hours and one in which you deceive yourself with "just one more chapter" Another of my personal indicators of a good book is some twists and turns that you didn't see coming, this book fits all of my criteria.Wow!
I met Elizabeth Haynes at a book talk a couple of years ago now and she seemed liked a really nice person.
She splits the novel into two perspectives four years apart, a before and after if you like.
And that’s the greatest strength of the novel, the radical shift in personality, confidence and voice the protagonist (Catherine) undergoes after her traumatic ordeal.
She is completely ruined and has to work so hard to pick herself up and carry on with her life.
I read it all rather quickly, though I think it would have been better if Catherine was a more compelling character to begin with.
I am not sure why I took so long to get around to this book since I knew it was getting really good ratings from friends whose reading tastes I trust!
Anyway I eventually picked it up on Monday evening and finished it on Tuesday.
Watching the main character's OCD moments was painful but seeing her gradually pick herself up and work towards a normal life was so pleasing.
And waiting for the threat to return was nerve wracking!The book is very well written and is remarkably a debut novel.
Into the Darkest Corner by Elizabeth Haynes is one of the most spine chilling and riveting novels ive read in a long time.
lee goes to extroidinary lengths to control Catherine using his experince in the police to ensure this while convincing her friends that she is going funny, all of wich together pushes her into the darkest corner.Four years later and Lee is behind bars and Catherine in a new location is a shadow of her former self with her time with him having a terribe effect on her.
Lee is controlling, abusive and thinks he is smart enough to get away with it; but can he?Written in two parts, Into the Darkest Corner slowly unfolds the destructive relationship between Cathy and Lee. It also includes the story four years after, showing the damage done to Cathy which has left her isolated, suffering from OCD and post traumatic stress.
The two different time periods are written in a slightly different format showing the chilling tale of a woman slowly slipping into her darkest corner, then showing her trying to recover from all the damage.
It’s dark, chilling and very disturbing; it was sickening at times but still an exciting novel to read.
4.5 StarsWell, this story was different from my usual read in Mystery/Thriller genres.
It’s unlike me to enjoy slow mystery but I really liked this one.
It was really well-written and characters were perfect.Cathy has OCD but her OCD doesn’t do anything with checking windows, curtains and her flat door six times a day!
But the thing is she wasn’t like this three years ago!
She was like a normal person with friends… So what happened three years ago that made her to be like this and be at running all the time!?!
But I’m assure you if you like mystery with some dark elements, it’s worth reading.

Badly written, unbelievable characters and events and full of gratuitous sex and violence Can't understand why it got so many 5 star reviews on Amazon - just awful,
I started this book some time ago, after reading a few books on feminism, and the rape culture we live in.
I was put off by the beginning of this book, as it begins with a woman going to bars, picking up men, and taking them home.
Needless to say, I read this book.I'll start by saying I was not impressed with the beginning.
This is a story of just how the worst does happen, and how one woman's life is forever altered.
Although I understand the authors need to drive home how affected the main character was, I found the first half very repetitious.
To be honest, it kind of creeped me out, like a whisper just behind my left ear with nary a hint of a mouth or an individual to explain the voice I heard.I understood Cathy’s character, but I couldn’t really identify with her.
You know, the one that stays in a relationship even when it starts going horribly wrong, and the boyfriend/husband/lover suddenly turns into a wife beating, knife yielding maniac who carves up his beloved like she’s some kind of Christmas ham.
After reading this novel, I understand the dynamics of that particular relationship a bit better.
Alternating chapters take us back to the past, four years ago and we slowly witness the events that brought Cathy to this point in her life.
The tension mounts both in the present and in the past as the chapters tick on by.Lee exacts psychological terrors on Cathy as well as physical, making her a wreck little by little.
Their romance was gradual, but lovely!While Cathy went through a complete nightmare, the chapters in the present fill you with hope that she can be happy once again.
I dont know whether to laugh, cry or scream at you Lee....That, is what i call an emotional rollercoaster.
Dont get me wrong, im not claiming to have a stalker, or imply i know anyone THIS messed up, but holy heck!It took me less then 5 minutes to become totally engrossed in this book.
Young Cathy is full of spirit, laughter and love and the other is a mentaly destroyed OCD sufferer looking to recover from the trauma she has endured.Young Cathy meets an enigmatic sexy guy called Lee while on a night out with friends...
This book was so good!
I thought this was an excellent first novel because it hit on my favorite topics: dark psychological intrigue and really interesting characters.Actually, I liked it so much that I chose it to publish under my imprint (Slaughterhouse) in Holland.
Brilliant,this book starts off to a court case,going back and forth telling a story how she met Lee, to how she was not coping with ocd.she was struggling to cope with her past with Lee till she met her neighbour.This story build up till it exploded, with Lee not being the person she knew from the start.incredible story.worth more than 5* rating.recommend this book as so good.great writing.
Me: sees a new book being released with a beautiful cover and unique plot. Goes out and buys all the versions. Starts a buddy read with a bunch of people online. YAYYY!! Then instead of keeping up with the buddy read she get distracted by this beauty! I started Into the Darkest Corner Thursday night & finished it by Fridays night. It's highly addictive. It's a must read for Psychological Thriller fans.
I think the way the author went back and forth between past and present was a clever way of giving the reader a disturbing insight into this relationship gone very bad.Present day Cathy is suffering with OCD and anxiety, but she is functioning, and getting through life day by day.
The past chapters tell the story of this past abusive relationship with a guy named Lee, which is what caused her to have these anxiety issues.
The scenes of rape and abuse in this book were very graphic and disturbing to read.
The present day chapters are a good balance though, because you see Cathy gradually getting better.
SUSPENSEFUL THRILLER!!It took me a while to get past Cathy's OCD routines and the way the book was written, alternating from past to present day, but as I kept reading, I found I could not stop wanting to find out what Cathy's psycho control freak boyfriend was going to do next, and WHAT AN ENDING!
Couldn't be better! I love this book.
The past and the present were beautifully woven together to create a story both intense and full of hope.When Cathy met Lee, she was a party girl, out most nights with her girlfriends, drinking to excess with the inevitable massive headache and hangover to go with it.
But when he was away, she would come home from work, and there would be subtle changes in her house, like the cutlery would be around the wrong way...she just knew he’d been in the house, checking up on her.As things worsened, and the physical and mental abuse escalated, Cathy knew she needed to get away from Lee. She had discovered his dark, terribly obsessive, controlling side...she feared for her life if she didn’t escape him.
I rated this 5 stars but as I read it weeks ago, my book memory is hopeless!
Scary is the prospect that even the closest friend of the abused do not believe the victim.
Then for one of those friends to end up a part of the mess as well.
It was edge of your seat stuff and rewarding reading about such a strong woman.
The crazy lengths that the abuser will go to were deplorable, but interesting the support and advice the victim could use to her benefit.
Yes, a lot of this seemed unlikely, but I must have liked it if I rated it 5.
I thought I would never finish this book. It's 598 pages long! :) I'm glad I stuck with the book because once I got past the very slow and tedious first half, it really drew me in.
