https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/260785.Go
No, the first Beat novel is Go (1952) by John Clellon Holmes.In 1949, while Jack Kerouac was still revising and seeking a publisher for The Town and the City, a sprawling autobiographical novel in the Thomas Wolfe mode (with a few “beat” characters), John Clellon Holmes was working on a shorter, more concentrated fiction, bearing the working title of The Daybreak Boys: a roman a clef depicting the lives of his friends Jack Kerouac (Gene Pasternak), Allen Ginsberg (David Stofsky), Neal Cassady (Hart Kennedy), plus a few less significant, shadier figures of the era (Cannastra, Huncke) who connect these young artists to the darkness of crime, junk, alcoholism, and the death-wish which the young poets were never far from in the post-war Manhattan streets.
I first read it when I was 20, fifty years ago, and rereading it after all that time is a rather strange experience.
Jack Kerouac was the same age as my father-in-law, who occasionally used to go drinking at the Malvern Hotel.Yet it was only ten years later, in 1960-61 that I was reading their books, envying their life, and wondering if had really happened the way John Clellon Holmes and Jack Kerouac described it.
And rereading it fifty years later, I see that Holmes actually tried to create the new vision that made us look back on his world with rose-tinted spectacles.
Amazingly, Cassady comes off nearly the same person as Kerouac's version, especially his dialogue, phrases, intonations and mannerisms, but in this novel I glimpsed more of his penchant for causing damage, rather than inspiration.
Towards the end we get to see the events that caused Ginsberg to get arrested, and soon after there is some pretty good comedy involving a sort of cleaning up of a crime scene, essentially.
The novel is about this group of friends who have mostly lost hope, yet are trying in all sorts of ways to cope, or find some meaning, whether intellectually, spiritually, artistically, or by drowning their feelings and just getting kicks in their booze, drugs and crime.
“Go” is The Melrose Place of Beat Generation books, no boy’s club writing here. The same cast of characters are on board: Allen Ginsburg, Jack Kerouac, Neal Casady and the gang, but John Clellon Holmes gives equal space to their women and their tempestuous relationships. That’s why this book is so cool; it’s got a real nighttime soap opera vibe about it that’s more exciting and sexy than the sausage fest style the other Beat boys write with. “Go” read “Go”.
One interesting angle is when the Huncke character and two other underworlders, a slumped junkie named "Little Rock" who the character Hobbes (based on Holmes) casts as the epitome of "coolness" and a tall redhead named Winnie, move into Stofsky's apartment, using it to stash stolen goods, with increasing obviousness--the Stofsky character sees himself as a prophet subverting social values by hanging around with "the world's doomed and outcast" or some other such Blakean Ginsbergism.
chock full of beautiful language about love, drugs, sex, drugs, ennui that exists on the cusp of the Beat Generation's explosive, literary reaction.
But this is a sad book, too - about young men and women looking to "Go and love without the help of any thing on earth." (p.246).
They were young people looking for Home - and this Roman a Clef sets the foundation that launches a generation: those off to find the world and themselves: sometimes successfully, sometimes not.
It often meanders too long or falls in love with the sound of its own voice.
Having read most of Jack Kerouac's books about this period in time, it was interesting to read about it from a different perspective. Holmes definitely takes a more sober view of everything than Kerouac did. Kerouac was all about the kicks, and Holmes is all about the consequences.If you are reading the same edition as me, don't read the forward first. It reprints the entire last two paragraphs of the book.
I'm not sure how much I liked Holmes, I thought it was a bit telling that the only scene he made up was his wife sleeping with Kerouac, which seemed rather mean.
I think that was part of the appeal to me was that it reminded me so much of my life in my 20s and it was lovely to read about the lives of people 50 years earlier and having them do the same crazy things, and go to exactly the same parties and have some similar dramas.
I think Kerouac came off most like himself.
Before Kerouac, there was John Clellon Holmes with Go, which -- partly fiction and partly autobiography -- tells of the frenetic search for liberation through drugs, alcohol, and even friendship that marked that strange group of young men who formed the core of the movement.Holmes does, however, change their names: Holmes becomes Paul Hobbes; Kerouac, Gene Pasternak; Allen Ginsberg, David Sklofsky; and Neal Cassady, Hart Kennedy.
In the end, I think the Holmes understood the Beat Generation more than Kerouac did.
The general feels are different enough, Holme's contribution to the beat generation being entirely situated in New York and following the events of a battered marriage and the wild party lives of a core group as opposed to the cross country jumble of Kerouac's experiences with one Neal Cassidy; while the latter's work seems to be one town to the next with little relation outside of the linear trip itself, Holmes puts a more story like effort with a third person narration, not only following his alter ego, Hobbes, but relating events unexperienced by him through a second character, David Stofsky.
His writing might not be on par with Jack Kerouac, but he makes up for it in general interest.
Kerouac (Gene Pasternak) and Neal Cassady (Hart Kennedy) disappear for sections on their road trips; we don’t see them on the road and on the west coast, but they are always in the conversation and they become major characters when they return to Manhattan where Holmes (Paul Hobbes) and Allen Ginsberg (David Stofsky) and others are waiting for them.Go, which was published in 1952 before On the Road and is famously the first book to use the term “Beat Generation,” is a glossary of other slang from the period as well.
There's also lots of tooth-gnashing over the group's use and abuse of alcohol and drugs, and the confusion caused by several characters' commitment to sexual freedom.It's clear/very likely Kerouac read Go and said "I'm gonna take out all the stuff that's a drag, man, and just go, go, go!"It's doubtful Go would be as interesting if you didn't know who the characters REALLY were, and that in a few months many of them would be very famous.
A- The first novel of the Beat Generation. (Take that, On the Road!) Fantastic, really engaging…while his style isn't as spontaneous as Kerouac, some really interesting characters, and the style is engaging. Really enjoyed this. I can't believe I haven't read this until now! Highly recommended for all Beat afficionados.
I felt moved at the end. As terrible and beautiful as The Great Gatsby. Holmes had a tender insight into 'what matters' in life, even at age 23 or 26 or whenever he wrote this. I came to Go assuming it would be a timepiece, dated but interesting. I closed the book feeling very alive to the moment that I myself live in. Not a timepiece. Go is timeless.
This novel exists primarily as a roman-à-clef, depicting the early years of the Beat writers that have now become household names.The book focuses on the usual cast of "characters", masked behind thinly veiled literary doubles, Jack Kerouac becomes Gene Pasternak, Neal Cassady - Hart Kennedy and Allen Ginsberg - David Stofsky.While Kerouac documented every aspect of the movement - the jazz, drinking, drugs, crime, infidelity - as a living part of it, Holmes, although heavily involved, seems to have written as more of an outsider.
Written more as a confessional commentary, Holmes has captured the personal identities of his counterparts, and the honest depictions of their thoughts and dialogue gives perspective to the life events of these iconic writers.
Where Kerouac would immortalize the all-night drinking / drug parties and non-monogamous sexual relationships in a positive light, Holmes describes these situations as someone that is maybe a bit "square", and although fascinated by these people and how casually they would get involved in crime (grand theft auto, burglary, etc.), he was clearly torn between observing this self-destruction and attempting to maintain his shaky relationship with his wife.Highly approachable yet beautifully written (if a bit awkward at times), Go seems like it should have been a confessional written by a friend of Kerouac, Ginsberg, etc.
Although the events in this book actually take place after Kerouac's first novel, the publishing of the book is chronicled here, so it feels like a good place in that chronology to read it.
I really enjoyed this novel, for me it was fascinating to have such a different outlook into the beats.
There's a lot of dialogue in this book, mostly converse-driven plot-wise.
It took me a short while to figure out who was who, but most of the time just reading the dialogue one with the slightest familiarity with the beats can figure out who is who.
One thing that truly fascinated me about this book, before I read it even, was learning that Holmes had written notes and conversations written verbatim from those days.
i just can't understand how this isn't a more recognized work of the beat catalogue.
it's a surprisingly intimate look at the life of a few of the key beaters (capturing ginsberg much more intimately than kerouac, cassady and huncke).
it brings to dramatic life (perhaps too dramatic at times) these iconic persons and some of the essential life events i've only caught vague wind of in my beat inquiry.
from ginsberg's arrest and his blakean visions to kerouac's initial publishing windfall and references to one of his & cassady's crosscountry journeys,holmes swept me along.
If you're going through a "quarter life crisis," this is the book for you.
If you're turning into an aging hipster, please do read "Go" If you want to read a better version of "On the Road," pick "Go" up at your local book shop.
It involves the same group of bohemians Kerouac hung with in their early stages.
It's basically Paul (our hero) and his group of character friends doing crazy and sometimes stupid things.
Paul is growing away from them and wants to be more of an "adult."
After trawling through many a Kerouac novel as a youth I finally found "Go".
This is a great book.
However positive progression and the avant-garde within literature are, the advancement or stunting of the species...freedom and autonomy versus circumspect action.
In "Go" Clellon Holmes approached classic literature as opposed to the forging, freshness and gimmicks of bebop prose.
The rancid filth of a post war bohemian struggle as the 60s approach.
Kerouac exposed as a lost boy, a creepy stalker, Ginsberg a gutter punk Angel, Cassady still burns on another plane.
Truth be told the beautiful melancholy and poetic blues of existence bleed out of the streets of this book.
An early Beat Generation novel, but one that I only came across recently, it features characters based on Kerouac, Ginsberg etc.
and takes place about 5 years or so before On The Road was published.
It is really well written, but maybe doesn't have that wild, almost frenetic feel that the more well known writers from this group achieved later on.
It would even be a good novel to start off on when thinking about exploring the Beat writers, as it certainly has a cool 50s feeling, as well as showing the kind of lives that some disaffected, bohemian young Americans lived post-WW2.
DRAFTI liked this book a lot.
Partly because it concerns the lives of beat generation writers in New York in the late 1940's who, like many readersd hold a fascination for me, with their full frontal assault on straight society but also because its well written and accessible.
There are many anecdotes taken from actual events such as Stofsky's (aka Allen Ginsberg) revelations whilst reading Blake's poetry.
It is good to get a more grounded and critical assessment of the beat movement from such a close insider who.
I enjoyed it, and it's a must-read for any beat aficionado.
But it's a bit verbose and tedious, overloaded with contrived analysis and description.
It's as if Holmes as a young writer thought the added adornment was necessary to get published, which may have been true at the time.It's also contains none of the passion and verve of Kerouac and other beat works, but this was Holmes' admitted role with the beats, a somewhat detached observer on the fringe, rather than an ardent principal of the beat "movement."Nevertheless, well worthwhile if you're looking for more insight into the beat characters, not so much if you're just looking for an entertaining book to breeze through.

This is the book Kerouac would have written, had he stayed sober, stayed put in NYC and stayed in his "Town and City" Thomas Wolfe mode. Happily, he got drunk, hit the road and discovered spontaneous prose, which is really what made the beats "beat."If you want reportage and a sober account of the late 40s/early 50s in NYC, then this is your book. It tells what happened, a bit about the why, but fails to capture the feel of that whole scene. Not bad, though, for a different perspective.
"Where's the beef, Beat-style? Where's the jazz? The kicks? The lunge and the plunge? Where's that high-rider sass, man?" Seymour Krim, in the afterword, on his posse's reaction to "Go." Which was exactly the same as my reaction to "Go."
Along with On The Road, the best Beat book.
Go analyzes the brief pop culture phenomenon of beatniks in urban New York, diving into their history but also the philosophy and voices behind it. It's definitely a powerful piece of classic literature.
John Clellon Holmes' "Go" is usually spoken of as "the beat novel that was written before "On the Road." This is about as far as any comparison's need to go, as "Go" is a much grittier work than Kerouac's, and in my opinion, much more engaging.
The novel has an intimate feeling, taking place entirely in the New York homes, bars, and coffee houses houses frequented by characters based on himself, Kerouac, Allen Ginsberg and other beat figures.
If one were to compare it to another beat work of literature, instead of "On the Road" I would say it has the raw immediacy of Ginsberg's "Howl."
As an historical artifact, we get a good view of the Beats and what life was like for their circle in New York in the Forties, like searching the sketchy bars of Times Square for a possible weed connection.
At times the novel is plodding: Hobbes, Holmes alter ego, can be a dull character; interspersed with the action is too much of philosophical analysis and soul searching; the accounts of various all-night parties can get monotonous; and Holmes seems very self aware and conscious that he and his friends are members of a special new generation.
