https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/12083.Long_Day_s_Journey_Into_Night
*Read for class*Nope not a fan
I can only imagine the works he would have produced had this affliction not robbed us of his talent.LONG DAY'S JOURNEY INTO NIGHT focuses on James Tyrone, an aging actor, Mary, his morphine-addicted wife, Edmund and Jamie, their two adult sons, both alcoholics.Random thoughts ~~ LONG DAY'S JOURNEY INTO NIGHT is a ghost play; it is more memory than reality.
Yes, the action moves from day to night, but as the dialogue becomes fueled more and more by whiskey and morphine, the past is repeated over and over again, becoming more vicious, more accusatory.There are four addicts living in this house, not one.
Χαρακτήρες βγαλμένοι από τη ζωή. Όσο εξελίσσεται το έργο, η τραγικότητα τους αυξάνεται. Ευθύτητα και κυνισμός τους χαρακτηρίζει. Σπουδαίο. Δυσκολεύομαι να γράψω κάτι παραπάνω.
To do all of that well is astounding.The play follows a day in the life of the Tyrone family.
The Tyrone family just happens to be in the nexus of a perfect storm of all of these elements in the moment of the play’s action.A huge element of this text are the stage directions and notes, which compose a large part of the play and are massively important to its success as a piece of literature and drama.
It's really sad to think that kids in high school are forced to read junk like DEATH OF A SALESMAN and THE CRUCIBLE when a great play like this one is almost forgotten.
I grew up in a house just like this and I would give everything to be able to put these feelings into words the way Eugene O'Neill does in this play.
There's nothing depressing about reading it because every word just feels honest and natural and there's never any sentimentality.
From Act 1 Eugene O'Neill jerks away the patchwork veil from the face of a family to reveal the anatomy of the skin, every pustule, all the carbuncles, discoloration and scars, the embarrassing halitosis, wax and hairs—the attributes that, up close, make us ugly human beings.
The play exposes a painful calculus between characters, alliances form then change, issues smolder, and rage and reaction to past events is way out of proportion to the origin and manner in which they occurred.
Like real life it's hard to uncover single events that started the cascades of destructive family behavior.

Interesting read. My first O'Neill. An unhappy family re-lives in intoxicated conversations the highs, the lows, the lies, and the fantasies that they all seem to believe have led them to their present morbid state. Blame the mother. Blame the father. Blame the sons. Blame society. Blame the drugs. Blame death, loneliness, and want. Very hard to realize, emotionally charged and psychologically complex, directions to the actors. Realistic dialogue. And very long. 3.5-stars rounded up to 4.
”The fault, dear Brutus, is not in our stars, but in ourselves that we are underlings.”  Long Day’s Journey into Night was a story about a family, James Tyrone (father), Mary (mother), Jamie (elder son), Edmund (younger son) and Cathlyn (second daughter), and their typical day. I’ve always thought it’d be hard to read a play but it turned out just the opposite! Well, at least for this one, Long Day’s Journey into Night is surprisingly easy to read and grasp its meaning. As short as the story i
Long Day’s Journey into Night was a story about a family, James Tyrone (father), Mary (mother), Jamie (elder son), Edmund (younger son) and Cathlyn (second daughter), and their typical day.
At the end of the book, the Tyrone Family appears to be exhausted due to the occasional argument about life, love, job, nothing and everything during the day, so I think James gives up lecturing on Jamie’s unpromising behavior, or further worrying about his paranoid wife.
All in all, Long Day’s Journey into Night is a rather interesting read for me because what happens in the Tyrone Family may or may not occur in real life.
You know when you're reading something and think, "Damn, this is good," and then you look up the playwright and realize he won 4 Pulitzers and the Nobel Prize? Yeah. O'Neill sort of knows what he's doing. This play is the emotional equivalent of picking a scab. All four characters are seared on my brain, and the detailed, beautiful stage directions make this an especially good reading experience. Recommended if you like family dramas steeped in hopelessness.
odličan prikaz savršeno sjebane porodice, koji kulminira jednim danom orgija izbacivanja prljavog veša skupljanog godinama.
Long Day's Journey into Depression.
O pai, actor de teatro, egoísta, somítico e obcecado em assegurar a sua subsistência na velhice; a mãe viciada em heroína e atormentada pelo remorso da morte do segundo filho; o irmão alcoólatra, mulherengo e dividido entre o amor e o ciúme pelo irmão mais novo; e Eugene, com vinte e três anos, que vai ser internado num sanatório de tuberculosos.
Quatro personagens em sofrimento; os pais torturados pelos erros e recordações do passado, e emocionalmente destruídos, arrastam os filhos numa espiral de culpa, revolta e loucura.
I dialoghi sono un capolavoro di sofferenza, ciascuno col suo portato; moglie e marito lottano verbalmente per ribadire il loro diritto all'essere vittima della situazione, madre e figlio minore (la personificazione dell'autore) biasimano e blandiscono le reciproche autodistruzioni, il figlio maggiore innesca il proverbiale parricidio (solo verbale).
Tra le mille sfumature di questa pièce emerge soprattutto la cappa di commiserazione intorno alla donna, che poi diventa autocommiserazione e feroce giudizio maschile, solo un po' attutito dall'affetto famigliare, per l'incapacità a risollevarsi, la debolezza di quella che avrebbe dovuto essere la "regina della casa".
The Journey from the Day to...ok un attimo che googlo"
In O’Neill’s play, the focus is also on four people, members of an Irish-American family – a father, mother, and two grown sons (although there is also a slack-jawed servant).
I never wanted to live here in the first place, but your father liked it and insisted on building this house, and I’ve had to come here every summer.EDMUNDWell, it’s better than spending the summer in a New York hotel, isn’t it?
The epigraph of Eugene O'Neill's semi-autobiographical play says it was a 12th anniversary gift to his wife: "I mean it as a tribute to your love and tenderness which gave me the faith in love that enabled me to face my dead at last and write this play--write it with deep pity and understanding and forgiveness for all the four haunted Tyrones." The play was published in 1956, three years after O'Neill's death.As the day turns into night, the four characters in the Tyrone family reveal more and more about their past.
Although they care about their family, they blame each other for the problems they face.
Βαθμολογία: 9/10Άλλο ένα κλασικό και πολυδιαβασμένο θεατρικό έργο που διαβάζω τον τελευταίο καιρό.
Πρόκειται για ένα πραγματικά πολύ σπουδαίο και δυνατό έργο, γεμάτο τραγικότητα και κυνισμό.
Η αλήθεια είναι ότι σαν θεατρικό έργο είναι ίσως το πιο σκοτεινό και απαισιόδοξο από αυτά που έχω διαβάσει μέχρι στιγμής (δεν είναι και πολλά, αλλά είναι καλά!), σίγουρα δεν είναι ένα έργο για να "περάσεις καλά".
Με το θεατρικό αυτό έργο, ο Ευγένιος Ο'Νιλ βάζει τον αναγνώστη/θεατή να σκεφτεί κάποια πράγματα για την οικογένεια και τις επιλογές του όσον αφορά τον τρόπο ζωής.
Eugene O'Neill is a strong writer.
Long Day's Journey into Night is probably one of the deepest plays I have read having read it at a young age.
My favorite part was the monologue about the fog.
"The fog was where I wanted to be" is not a meaningless quote at all.
It is about reality, solitude, and fear.
I love this monologue because there is so much to say about solitude and reality together.
The play is no light read and it deals with very serious topics.
I love O'Neill's strategies in this play.
I look forward to reading his other works.
Why did this feel like rereading The Glass Menagerie?
The power of the dialogue combined with O'Neill's unusually specific stage directions (including the appearance and facial expressions of the actors) creates a very tangible atmosphere, one that is heightened even further from the knowledge that the family's struggles were once real for O'Neill, and that due to the autobiographical content he didn't want it to be published until 25 years after his death.In 1912, a day in the Tyrone family consists of them escaping their guilt and frustration.
And I think they very much capture the mood and tension that so densely fog the lives of the Tyrones -- and the resentment and feelings of homelessness that are such common side effects of living in a dysfunctional family.I live in New London, Connecticut -- aka, Eugene O'Neill, Connecticut -- and I read my way through high school via cheap, used editions of his plays.
Maybe I'm biased, but I sometimes wonder why so many of O'Neill's great plays are ignored by high school reading curriculums.
O'Neill illuminates to us how even love and hope - the only things that ultimately make us want to continue to live - cannot save or heal an utterly broken family, who despite everything still loves each other.
This play is frighteningly accurate in its portrayal of a dysfunctional family and their despairing lives.
This play will force you to reflect on your own family life, and you will be surprised by how many parallels there are between the characters in the play and the people you know.
Years ago i had a professor who used to tell me that you can't say you read plays if you havent read Eugene O'Neil's ones yet !He was right .what genuis can write such beautiful piece of art??What shattred dramatist can use the sorrow ,"the tears ,and the blood "to write this wonderful play full of pitiless honestY ?
Yes in the play,The unbearable past haunts everything , even a past that long ago seemed fleetingly full of innocent potential, like Mary Tyrone’s.
Be always drunken.
If you would not feel the horrible burden of Time weighing on your shoulders and crushing you to the earth, be drunken continually.
What an utterly beautiful play!
Who wants to see life as it is, if they can help it?Though O'Neill wasn't strictly what you call a symbolist writer, this play does deal with one of the major themes the Movement was about: escapism.
It is a beautiful and heart-rending play, though very sad, and O'Neill just made into my favorite playwrights!
Loved this so much. Need to see this play performed. And several other times in my life, when I was swimming far out, or lying alone on a beach, I have had the same experience. Became the sun, the hot sand, green seaweed anchored to a rock, swaying in the tide. Like a saint's vision of beatitude. Like a veil of things as they seem drawn back by an unseen hand. For a second you see -- and seeing the secret, are the secret. For a second there is meaning! Then the hand lets the veil fall and you ar
Loved this so much.
Like a veil of things as they seem drawn back by an unseen hand.
For a second you see -- and seeing the secret, are the secret.
For a second there is meaning!
As it is, I will always be a stranger who never feels at home, who does not really want and is not really wanted, who can never belong, who must always be a a little in love with death!
After reading this play it is clear why O'Neill chose to have it published posthumously because of its autobiographical nature.
O'Neill used his own name for the baby that died young and ended up being the trigger for so much of the family’s dysfunction.
The rich dialogue and intense relationships bring your emotions right into the Tyrone family and their turmoil.
There was substance abuse in every member of the family.
The mother's morphine addiction was full of shame, disgrace and banishment where the father's alcoholism was viewed as a minor annoyance that comes with being a man.
It's full of dysfunction, addiction, greed, loathing and cynicism.
You wont like this book unless you have some stodgy English professor explain all the allegorical motifs that come at certain times. However, I found this to be a masterpiece. Not to be a spoiler, but the wife is addicted to Morphine and her sons are alcoholics. Uplifting story it isn’t, but the way it is crafted and acted out was way ahead of it’s time. This might be the one time you can watch the video and then read it. Either way, this was one Eugene’s best including the Ice Man Cometh.
Is it me, or is this eerily similar to Death of A Salesman, if Death were retitled 'Linda Loman Has a Morphine Problem'?(Which is not to say that I didn't breathlessly read it in one sitting because I was so gripped by it, or that Jamie quoting Swinburne didn't nearly bring me to tears.)
Devastating; brilliant - a masterpiece.
The sources of its plot and characters in the Nobel-winning author's autobiography, his tortured family life marked by regret and addiction, seemed to demand its withholding until O'Neill's death in 1953.The play's title is apt as it obeys the Aristotelian unities of time and place: it is set from morning to night on one summer day in one room of the Tyrone family's New England summer home.
