https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/269386.The_Sweet_Potato_Queens_Book_of_Love
Like one reviewer here, I don't read chicklit.
However, I might change my mind about that after reading the reviews for this book, I don't want to end up all sour and pretentious.
I think you have a degenerative issue.I was given this book as a gift from a most wonderful (and might I add, educated) friend who read it herself and rated it the same as I did.
So I guess some people are impervious to it's brain damaging effects.I loved this book.
If you enjoy reading about different types of people and have a sense of humor, you may like this book a lot.
Lets see, it seems like I actually learned one thing, I just cant remember what it was because it was so insignificant. I absolutely hated this book and feel like it was a huge waste of time. The only reason I finished it was because it is for our new book club. I felt like it was 200 pages of really lame and annoying fat lady blabbing. ugh. There were about 3 paragraphs of interest on the last 2 pages, mostly in quoting others, but too little, too late. what a piece of crap.
I laughed until my face hurt when reading this book.I am now reading another one of these books and love it.If you are Southern you will especially love the humor in this bookwhen you read words like "yamamaanddem" that only we can relate to.guarenteed laughs on every page because every woman can relate to each chapter.
To say that I despise this book is not damning enough.
There may be a good recipe in it, I’ll find out when I make it for our Messy Housekeepers Book Club meeting next week.
It’s for “chocolate stuff,” I intended to make sweet potato pie for our discussion of this book, but this book is not worth the effort.
This is on my list of worst books of the year, which is a sub-list of Book Challenges I have never felt the need to make.
I picked up this book because I was out of things to read and it was just sitting on a friend's coffee table.
Okay, so basically this woman decided that she wanted to have a little fun, and guess what, she WAS a queen.
Not one of those insipid beauty queens that's only got the crown for a year, no, she was a queen all the time (after my own heart, I tell you what) and she decided to make her presence known in her city's St. Patrick's Day parade (that wasnt' held on St. Pat's, go figure) wearing a bright green thing, stuffed up top an ddown below, with majorette boots and a bright red wig.
I loved this book.
This book had me laughing out loud! The Promise, trashy lingerie, the recipes, gimme Chocolate Stuff now —— and the overall purpose of just BE who you were meant to be!
This book is the worst book I have ever read.
It was a complete waste of time!
I actually thought my IQ was going down as I read it.
There were a couple of times where I gave a little chuckle and that's why the book got one star.
These "Sweet Potato Queens" have no respect for themselves at all...never mind dignity.
Or maybe they just don't know what dignity is.
Horrible book, I would not recommend it to anyone!
Read only if you want your IQ to go down!
The final chapter about living a full life provided the kick in the butt I sometimes need.
Most of us don't need a title or tiara.
I appreciated the "five men you need in your life" chapter and agree four of them ideally should be gay.
That's ok since I suffer from vertigo.)As I age I realize each woman needs a few female friends with whom she can howl at the moon, or in my case drink, knit, and watch BBC shows.
This is a good road trip, Saturday afternoon book.
Or a "the world sucks and I need to laugh" kind of book.
The book is read by the queen herself author Jill Brown.
They say a woman needs 5 men in her life.
The two qualities he doesn't possess are a man you can dance with, which he whole-heartedly admits to and a man who can fix stuff.
The funny thing is he argued the point he thinks he can fix stuff.
My neighbor Bob is the man who fixes stuff in my life.
As for the man who can dance since I am a girl who cannot dance, not a man I really need in my life.
What can I say about the Sweet Potato Queens.
You won't believe until you read it, that's for sure.
I think this novel, and the women in it, represent what is great about the modern southern woman: unlike the past, we don't feel that we NEED a man, but if we can get one (or a couple) we sure know what to do with them!Much like my review, this book is not to be taken seriously.
It employs a lot of stereotypes about men that aren't necessarily true, but at the end of the day, it is hilarious.
Read this one, and all the others, and you won't be disappointed.
I felt like I was listening to Julia. Cute and fun. Some of it is that canned humor that was maybe funny the first time, but loses something in the reselling upon retelling you can sense it's been through. Some of it is genuinely hilarious. A good read for the moment.
I am head over heels in love with this woman, her ideals, and all her queens.
I believe my sisters and I have already tapped into something like this but I've never quite been able to put into words but this book spells it out in a way I never thought quite possible.
To be honest, Im a little p*ssed we never thought of this first.
I recommend this book and every book by Jill Conner Browne from the bottom of my heart to all the women I love.
This squeaked out two stars, as giving only one feels cruel. Mildly amusing at times, but I never looked forward to reading this book - too campy, too southern, just too much. I had high hopesbut they were not met. I did like how all the Queens were named Tammy for anonymity, it gave me a chuckle when she, once again, said, "Now another one of the Queens, Tammy..." OH! And I had to skim as fast as my little eyes could zoom along over the chapter with all the disgusting fatty foods. BLECH.
I received this book as a get well soon gift from My Favorite Aunt while I recovered from surgery. She said I would laugh so hard I'd cry while reading it. Simply put: she was right. Read, howl, cry with laughter, repeat. Over and over again.
The author told a story about when she was a girl that she had a male friend.
One time someone was making her miserable, and her friend said, "Ooh I hate her, I hope she dies." The author felt horror until she thought about the spirit of his attitude of being totally committed to their friendship.
That story has stuck with me for many years.
I told my husband about it, and sometimes one of us will say that whether anyone has even done anything to either one of us, and we burst out laughing together.
I had a lot of fun listening to this one. I didn't know there would be recipes, so now I need to get a print copy so I can make "Oh God" (a caramel coconut pie).
Hilarious read. As I was reading, I'd come across a passage that took me off guard and I'd burst into a laugh, forgetting for a moment I was in public. Girls, you won't regret reading this.
This book wasn't bad, not great either. Some parts are more funny than others, and it is interesting hearing about "the south." There were a couple recipes in there, sometime I'd like to try the chocolate stuff. Overall I enjoyed it.
I usually have at least two books going, one on my Kindle and one on my iPhone for those times I'm stuck somewhere and need easy entertainment so I don't die of boredom.
Easy entertainment is the key when reading on a phone..
reading on a phone...
and usually in public, active environments.
Don't over think it (it's not particularly finely crafted--in fact is quit thin on emotional development--and it's not something that will linger in your mind) just read and enjoy for what it is.
While there are some very good ideas that I came away with after listening to this, for the most part I just felt a little uncomfortable by the language and actions of these women.I chose to listen to this instead of read it because I was thinking that having the author do her own narration on the audio book would give it that much-desired edge and reality that other audios lack.
While her voice itself is perfect for a reading of this particular book, I was slightly dismayed at her lack of emotional range and felt as though she seemed bored reading it (which made it boring for me as well).
This is a book about women who act like male drag queens.
Men in drag is universally understood to be good comedy, but when women walk around in female drag it's funny for about two seconds then you want to walk away.
This book has some very funny lines and moments, but after the first chapter, you've pretty much already got everything there is to get out of the book.
It's just more of the same for the remaining chapters.
I don't understand the whole "Princess" mentality some women have, and this book didn't help me understand it any better.
I hate not finishing a book.
Even if I don't like it.
Although I had every intention of giving it 2 stars because I really do admire anyone who could put herself out there and write a book (because I know I couldn't), I just couldn't do it.
Just like I couldn't get past 1/2 of the book because I physically felt nauseated by the way she talked about using men to buy them stuff.
I don't understand who the intended audience is for this book.
It was neither funny, a good story, or inspiring.
Augh, that just made the book even worse.
Hilarious girly book. It is a quick easy read about the theories of the author and how the sweet potato queen (and then queens and their followers,) came to be. You do not have to be from the south to enjoy the stories of the author and her attitude.These are women that I would love to hang out with for an evening, even if I don't totally agree with their menu of snacks. If you are interested in their food, you might want to look at the cookbook, which is stories about food and the recipes to follow.
Fluffy, fun, light read. Shipped to me fresh from my dear friend Helen in Louisiana (of course.)I believe I actually quoted this book on a recent date when I put a plate of cookies in front of him and said, "I wouldn't be a proper Southern woman without putting something in front of you that has sugar as the main ingredient." Or some-such...
My mother brought this over to me tonight after making Love Lard. I swear, it's much better tasting than the name sounds. Recipe in book.What a fun, bubblegum read. It is perfect just before going to bed at night because then I fantasize about being a 'Tammy' and putting on green sequins and fake boobs and being oke with it.
I read about 3 chapters and had to give up....I get that she's trying to be funny, but I found her condenscending and annoying. I get she's a queen but not funny in my opinion. I skipped to The Sweet Potato Queens Big Ass Cookbook which I liked a lot better.
this book was so southern and so hilarious; i was laughing out loud in the car day and night! you HAVE to read this!!!!
Audio version. LISTEN to Jill Conner Browne. She is a wonderful narrator. Funny. Thoroughly enjoyable.
I love Browne's no-nonsense approach to pretty much everything in life, from death to doing the deed. She and her girlfriends are examples to women everywhere.
Absolutely the most funny of all the memoir/girl gab books. Read everything this woman writes. I laughed out loud, and have not stopped laughing.
