https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/9593.Gal_pagos
The few who do arrive, at the guarded hotel, are the new widow, American, Mary Hepburn, despondent, with suicidal impulses, James Wait, an alias, he says he's Canadian, a con man, in reality, who takes money, you guessed it, from grieving women, Japanese Hisako Hiroguchi, pregnant wife of computer genius, Zenji, incompetent Captain Adolf von Kleist, of the ship, "Bahia de Darwin", that's right, the same one that will take them to the islands, if he can find the archipelago, billionaire Andrew Macintosh, he wants more, and his blind, loyal daughter, Selena, the ghost of Leon Trotsky Trout, is our narrator, son of the late, not so great, writer, Kilgore Trout, and six hungry little girls, unexpected passengers, natives of the nearby rain forest .
Kurt Vonnegut, Isaac Asimov, Theodore Sturgeon and St. Peter sit in a bar in the Great Hereafter discussing, among other things, Vonnegut’s 1985 novel Galapagos.Isaac: [Looking at Peter] What are you laughing about?Peter: You know.
[laughing]Isaac: It’s still funny, after all these centuries, that me, a self described atheist and humanist, finds himself here in the Great Hereafter?Peter: Yep, still funny.Theodore: Well, it’s like Kurt’s book Galapagos, where Kilgore Trout’s son Leon is a ghost and views a million years of evolution.
Most of the story is set between the run up to the cruise and the passengers’ first few years on the island, but it is certainly not a Robinson Crusoe type story; it is far more provocative than that, raising issues of fate/independence, the meaning and importance of intelligence and ultimately, what makes us human.Like all good dystopias (if that's not an oxymoron), the individual steps to it don't really stretch credulity (few of them are very original), but the final destination is more startling - and even somewhat positive.NARRATIVE STYLEThe story arc is fundamentally chronological, but with an enormous number of tiny jumps ahead: right from the start, Vonnegut sprinkles the story with so many snippets about what will happen to everyone, why and how, that you don’t know if there will be anything left by the time the main narrative catches up.
When I finish novels by Haruki Murakami or Kurt Vonnegut, I'm not always sure what I've read.
It was thought-provoking and I laughed a number of times.
At the same time, these not serious parts are what most of us view as supremely important.
I tried to imagine the evolutionary changes a million years in the future Vonnegut was describing.
So, all in all, I enjoyed reading Galapagos, but I can't say just what happened.
When I read it again (sometime in the future), I might understand more, but I'm not sure.

"In this era of big brains, anything which can be done will be done -- so hunker down."-- Kurt Vonnegut, GalápagosTrying to stay a couple books ahead of my son as I re-read Vonnegut.
I haven't read much since those years between 13 and 18 when I seemed to burn through Vonnegut books again and again.
God I love this man.
"When all was said and done, the creatures of the Galápagos Islands were a pretty listless bunch compared with rhinos and hippos and lions and elephants and so on." Leon Trotsky Trout is as dead as a dodo, but is nevertheless the incorporeal narrator of a story that is told a million years into our future.Trout recounts a sequence of evolutionary events that begin in 1986, as a bunch of bipedal misfits gather in Ecuador for 'The Nature Cruise of the Century.' Looking back at humankind, from a m
(I can assure you that the story is better read, than explained).I'm a latecomer to Vonnegut and fell in love with his writing quicker than you could say "woolly mammoth." He elucidates with the conviction of a mad prophet; his prose is cheerily unfussy and he is at all times wickedly provocative.And, in keeping with the 'circle of life' theme, there are fish metaphors aplenty.For no reason other than authorial whimsy, he anoints any character who is about to die with an asterisk (so we know in advance that they are going to pop their clogs), and he mischievously over-explains things that are blindingly obvious to anyone bar our tiny-brained human descendants, one million years into the future.Vonnegut has a droll sense of humour that I found immediately enjoyable and fans of Monty Python are sure to like his style.
One million years in the future, a man recounts humanity's origins in the Galapagos islands.This was the third Kurt Vonnegut book I've read and my third favorite.
Actually, it reminds me of one of Grandpa Simpson's rambling stories that circles back on itself, only with novel-y bits like themes and messages and such.Galapagos is part satire, part cautionary tale.
Anyway, one million years in the future, humanity is a whole other species.Galapagos deals in evolution, environmentalism, and anti-war.
Yeah, a lot has changed since 1986...The book is actually pretty funny with Vonnegut's dark absurdist humor being the star of the show.
The dry and parched surface, being heated by the noon-day sun, gave to the air a close and sultry feeling, like that from a stove: we fancied even that the bushes smelt unpleasantly.” Charles Darwin – The Voyage of the BeagleThe story is also a spoof of Noah’s Ark but instead of landing on Mount Ararat the ship lands on one of the islands in the Galápagos archipelago.
And instead of evolution Kurt Vonnegut depicts a devolution.Back when childhoods were often so protracted, it is unsurprising that so many people got into the lifelong habit of believing, even after their parents were gone, that somebody was always watching over them – God or a saint or a guardian angel or the stars or whatever.People have no such illusions today.
Though I believe Vonnegut means something more subtle than that.Galápagos is about a group of survivors of an apocalypse after (and before) the rest of humanity is wiped out, thanks to our big brains.
Absolutely adored the central conceit of this novel: In the midst of the death of the human species, a pocket of "humanity" manages to trundle on for at least another million years into the future, but the caveat being that these far-flung descendants are forever marooned on an ashy isle of the Galapagos where they have devolved into furry small-brained creatures with flippers--and the species and the planet couldn't be better off for it!
The conceptual remove from its characters will probably trouble readers with conventional hearts, not to mention the very grim tone this novel takes toward the worth of the human race.
But I loved the ruthlessly mordant satire that froths from every page of this novel.
I didn’t think it were possible!Narrated by the million-year-old ghost of Kilgore Trout’s son (Trout being the obscure science fiction writer whom Vonnegut fans will undoubtedly recall from such books as Breakfast of Champions and Slaughterhouse-Five), Galápagos tells the story of the end of human civilization as we currently know it.
Which is, incidentally, a million years before Trout’s telling of it.
None of its characters was very interesting, the end of “big-brained” human existence was not fleshed out in as much detail as one might otherwise expect from a book specifically about its demise (or, more accurately, about its transformation).
Mr. Vonnegut puts to use a hyper imagination with Galapagos. This book is about big brains. Big brains, like big boobies, regularly get in peoples way. Fortunately, I have neither. They are in peoples way when riding a crowded bus, or crowded elevators or when actively engaged in a sport. And evolution. This book is about big brains, boobies and evolution. That's about all a person needs to know before reading Galapagos... after all, it's not likely you were going to write Beethoven's Ninth Symphony.
I did, however, like Galapagos better than Slaughterhouse-Five.Galapagos is set one million years after 1986, when the world as we know it ended and, through a series of fluke events, one man and several women are stranded on the island of Santa Rosalia in the Galapagos.
As with most Vonnegut works, fragmented and nonlinear narrative is to be expected, as is the theme of "people are dumb asses." However, there is hope in this cautionary tale--if we learn to rein in our big brains, then maybe we'll be spared the evolutionary chain of events that lead to the utopian existence of lounging around on a beach somewhere, clapping our flippers together while chewing seaweed cud and hoping for some seal-like lovin' before the sharks come for us.
I love Vonnegut, so I was more than enthusiastic to start yet another book by him.
And as I started reading it, I got stuck right away...
Which is unusual for me, with Vonnegut.My main problem with it - knowing from the start that all the characters were doomed and what sort of fate awaited them (and the whole humanity too, btw) wasn't good.
It didn't let me getting attached to any of them, or to know them better and I didn't actually care what was going to happen to them.So what I got was another Vonnegut's rant on poor moral state of human kind and how nothing good could ever happen to us because we were/are/will be selfish egotistic bastards ready to kill everything and everyone because of our crazy or hungry reasons.
As it turns out, Galápagos served as a concise summation of the ideas that infuse his earlier books.Galápagos is the story of the “Nature Cruise of the Century” aboard the Bahía de Darwin, a cruise set to depart Ecuador for the Galapagos Islands with a roster of wealthy and prominent passengers including Jackie Onassis, Henry Kissinger, Mick Jagger, and other celebs.
As you can imagine, things don’t go well, and the boat finally runs aground on the island of Santa Rosalia in the Galapagos.The novel is narrated by an omniscient voice that does not identify itself for most of the book, but does indicate it is viewing the events of 1985 from a million years in the future.
But boy, am I glad he's back in my life again.Like most of THE MAN'S books, this one is about everything and nothing.The ghost of Leon Trotsky Trout (sprung from the loins of Kilgore Trout) spins a salty yarn from one million years in the future, telling us all about the mating rituals of humans and blue footed boobies in the year 1986.
And we still managed to screw everything up!I was just happy to learn that people will not only be around a million years from now, a fact that I had truly doubted, but that we'll still get hiccups and laugh when someone farts.
А можна поставити десять зірочок? Це мій другий роман Воннеґута і це любов! Його філософський сарказм вводив мене в захоплений транс. Ідеальна книга!
Perhaps surprisingly, the evolution of the human race reveals that the villain of history is the "oversize human brain." After all, the humans of the future don't have big brains anymore.A million years from now, people will have evolved to be, more or less, seals.
So who needs an oversize brain?Certainly the world is a better place without those villainous brains.
So I have to say that human brains back then had become such copious and irresponsible generators of suggestions as to what might be done with life, that they made acting for the benefit of future generations seem one of many arbitrary games which might be played by narrow enthusiasts - like poker or polo or the bond market, or the writing of science-fiction novels.
Vonnegut still believes in giving the human race another chance, but I'm not sure I want to live in the future as he imagined it .
To make a million year story short, the future humans are dolphin-like aquatic mammals with flippers.
On the Jon Stewart show, Kurt Vonnegut once remarked, “We are terrible animals and our planet’s immune system is trying to rid itself of us and probably should.” Within this novel, Vonnegut rids the world of the human race as we know it and is able to rapidly evolve humans in the Galapagos into creatures that are less terrible and better suited for their environment.Narrating from 1 million years in the future is Leon Trout, son of Kilgore Trout.
The captain, four remaining scheduled passengers, and a handful of Kanka-bono girls embark on this journey.
While not directly contradictory and by no means scientific, the story builds on Darwin's famous theory to explain Vonnegut's own theory of Devolution in which humans gradually turn their backs on the complexities of the universe in order to search further inside themselves to find the truth that lies within.
A few years ago I told a friend that it was one of my great dreams in life to interview Kurt Vonnegut before he died.
I will regret not making a greater effort to see this dream become a reality for a long time.
He has this way of making his bizarre visions of the future seem perfectly plausible, and makes me worry for our future and laugh at the same time.Galapagos is told from the point of view of a person a million years after 1986.
I won't tell you what life is like a million years from now, because it's more fun to be surprised as the storyteller slowly fills you in.Something I love about Vonnegut's brand of storytelling is the way he bounces around among the story's different points.
This is either the best or the worst travel book ever written.
I was traveling through central Europe while I read this book.
And as I read, I kept thinking that perhaps I was on my own "Nature Cruise of the Century." I thought that perhaps my own version of James Wait was around every corner.
Now, let my oversized brain ruin a simple book review, let me finish by saying that there were no currency crises, wars, drunken captains, or con artists (at least that I knew of) on my trip.
I wasn't stranded anywhere and the book didn't become my mandarax.
Now, the story is basically chronological, expect occasionally it jumps to “future events” that are actually past events, don’t worry, not as confusing as I am making them sound, and you know who is going to die because he has marked their names with an asterisk.Vonnegut uses this book to show us his view that global finance will cause humanity’s downfall, or something along those lines.
He tells us that our brains are the main cause of our problems, because they make us distracted ( I don’t necessary agree with him on this), and that with it we lie to each other, and ignore the basics of life and death.
- because obviously, what we do with our intelligence ultimately goes against the interest of the planet and consequently, against our own best interest.
The speculative future evolutionary stages of mankind and how they might come about, that's what lies at the heart of this satiric dystopia.The book is a typical Vonnegut: It's funny, but the humor serves to amplify the author's message which is, as usual, dead-serious.
I might have read too many of his novels in the last couple of weeks and I am clearly in need of a Vonnegut break, but this certainly wasn't my last book by this amazing writer.
The narrator, Leon Trotsky Trout, who has been a ghost for those one million years, relates to the reader the events that occurred resulting in this new civilization.The human race died out because of a multitude of factors.
Only 10 people survived to start afresh on Santa Rosalia, a fictional island in the Galapagos.The main story line is told chronologically, but the author frequently mentions the outcome of future events (referring to 1986 as being one million years in the past).
They are related to the story itself and are functionally inserted through Mandarax, a fictional voice translator that is also able to provide quotations from literature and history.
"Galapagos" is, as far as I can tell, when Kurt Vonnegut decided to become "Kurt Vonnegut." This book feels like an imperfect parody of Vonnegut's style.
It's not _bad_, per se, it's just not very good.
Narrated from 1 million years in the future, by Kilgore Trout's son, this book has flashes of real resonance, like when Leon Trout speaks of his time in Vietnam.
All in all, however, the entire thing feels misanthropic in a way that definitely would have appealed to me back in junior high, but feels rather fake and forced 15 years later.
Не те, щоб я не знала майже всього опусу Воннегута приблизно напам'ять, але в такі часи, як тепер, завжди підтримує нагадування, що хтось на цій планеті ставиться - власне, вже ставився - до людства так само скептично, як ти. Власне, за це й люблю, за це і знаю приблизно напам'ять, за це щороку й перечитую, і отепер також.
I just really, really regret not ever reading Vonnegut as a teenager. Would've been the perfect time. It's still good now, but I feel a bit like I have to time-travel while reading it in order to appreciate it more. I've also been told that this is not exactly the best Vonnegut to start with, especially as a full-grown adult with pretentious literary sensibility and high intellectual expectations. Still, I enjoyed it quite a bit. I like the wildly speculative and I'm a fetishist of sorts for evolutionary theory, even of the armchair variety.
