https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/385010.Baghdad_Sketches
I have just finished reading her first book, Baghdad Sketches (1932), consisting of columns written for the Baghdad Times plus some 8 pieces added later for the British edition.I am amazed that she was able to not only survive traveling in a difficult part of the world roughly between 1928 and 1970, but she lived to the age of 100.She is not the first to do sir.
Stark frequently visited among the Kurds, Yezidis, Shi’as, and Eastern Christians living in Iraq during the 1930s.Among her books that I have read with pleasure, in addition to Baghdad Sketches, are:The Valleys of the Assassins and Other Persian Travels (1934)The Southern Gates of Arabia: A Journey to the Hadhramaut (1938)Alexander’s Path: From Caria to Cilicia (1958)—about TurkeyMany of her books are still in print.
The essay "The Sentimental Traveler" is a masterpiece, it sheds a light on colonialism, post-colonialism and modernity vs traditions with as much depth as anything coming out in contemporary thought.
Which are rich and worth reading.Though like many writers of her time who travel you have to skip over the use of the term "My" in referring to people and places.
The only other thing I should note is that the Arab slave trade seems to be alive and well in the areas she travels.
Anyone who is Black or dark skinned is referred to as slave.
I really loved this charming book, written by one of my favorite authors.
Freya Stark traveled to Iraq in the 1920s and 1930s, found an apartment in the Old Quarter of Baghdad and lived there for a time.
This book is a sort of compilation of mini-stories and observations about everyday life in Iraq during that time.
There is no narrative or overarching story, but rather more like a journal with witty, thoughtful insights.
Her descriptions are fantastic, and you can't help but like her.
A fantastic read, and particularly valuable as I prepare for my assignment in Iraq.
Stark's experiences living as a single woman in Baghdad in 1928: a lost world, beautifully described. I rarely give a book 5 stars, but this one was a constant source of inspiration and delight.
Four stars because it's certainly worth reading if you're interested in what life felt (and smelled) like in Baghdad during the pivotal interwar years. There are a few empty chapters, but those go by quickly enough. The rest of it is entirely charming and insightful.
What a dreary book! Sand, filthy city hovels and streets, oppressed women hidden behind veils. Scanned forward, looking for something more interesting or important, to no avail.
Her adventures in Baghdad and trips around the country were great fun to read.
You have no idea of what is in store for you, but you will, if you are wise and know the art of travel, let yourself go on the stream of the unknown and accept whatever comes in the spirit in which the gods may offer it.""I used to wander of an evening outside the town, under this great wall in the dusk, and admire the new moon hanging above the windowless buttress in a daffodil sky."
A travel journal of a woman journeying in Iraq at the turn of the 20th century.
She did an excellent job portraying a time when the British (and Americans) were welcomed in Iraq and she displayed a beautiful and ancient culture that today's TV viewers would have difficulty believing.Three takeaways:1.
Observing the everyday life of another person is just as fascinating as observing a famous tourist site.3.
Showing an interest in another person's life or culture will typically get you a more positive reaction than showing disdain.
Baghdad Sketches was the first of Stark's writings to be published and presents a series of short essays on her experiences in and around Baghdad. Her writing is simply breathtaking, whether she is describing the landscape or the people, and she has such great respect for what she's writing about. She's definitely one of my heroes, both as a traveller and as a writer.
This book made me feel very ignorant of Middle Eastern history (not a difficult task) It was interesting to read these little essays by an intrepid woman traveller from pre-WWII Iraq and thereabouts - to read Kuwait described as a village for example. I most enjoyed the accounts of her domestic life, renting homes in Baghdad.
I picked up this book on the recommendation of a friend. Baghdad 1938...can't lose track of the fact that this is an ancient city. I am now reading Three Cups of Tea, modern Pakistan, in which the travel and cultural issues are similar.
really loved this charming book, written by one of my favorite authors. Freya Stark traveled to Iraq in the 1920s and 1930s, found an apartment in the Old Quarter of Baghdad and lived there for a time.
still reading but so far very interesting portrayal of now war-torn places in the middle east that were once peaceful
The writing style is not that easy to follow and I really don't like that orientalist tone but overall it draws sketches of Iraqis cities that I am sure are completely changed.
Freya Stark was mentioned in To War with WhitakerBy Hermoine Ranfurly. They met during WW2.
