https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/18373373-fear
He felt a quiet manhood, nonassertive but of sturdy and strong blood. He knew that he would no more quail before his guides wherever they should point. He had been to touch the great death, and found that, after all, it was but the great death. He was a man.- Stephen Crane, The Red Badge of CourageHere everything is planned for killing. The ground is ready to receive us, the bullets are ready to hit us, the spots where the shells will explode are fixed in time and space, just like the paths of o
Gabriel Chevallier’s Fear is a semi-autobiographical novel that follows first-person narrator (and Chevallier stand-in) Jean Dartemont through the First World War. First published in 1930, it was pulled out of circulation during the Second World War, and only made its way to an English translation in the last few years.
It was as if someone had set a match to the petrol-soaked horizon, or an evil spirit was stoking up the flames in some devil’s punch-bowl, dancing naked and sneering at our destruction.Chevallier meditates constantly on the terror felt by himself and the men around him.
As I read, I compared this to other war novels.
Fear:A Novel of World War I, The one novel you must read about the Great War Gabriel Chevalier in service during World War IMuch more to come. Not to heighten suspense, this novel is superb. Chevallier holds nothing back in his depiction of war. It is a scathing portrait of indifferent leaders mindful of their reputation but not the fate of their men. Discipline is brutal. Armed Gendarmes on horseback are stationed behind the lines to send men moving to the rear back to the front. Gendarmes who
Gabriel Chevalier in service during World War IMuch more to come.
Not to heighten suspense, this novel is superb.
Chevallier holds nothing back in his depiction of war.
Armed Gendarmes on horseback are stationed behind the lines to send men moving to the rear back to the front.
Gendarmes who do not fight have the authority to execute soldiers who do not obey.
This may be THE WWI novel you've not heard of.
Chevallier spares the reader nothing.
Because of that this novel carries with it more power than anything else this reader has encountered written as a result of the Great War.
Several times, as Jean's experiences progressed and he lived through some of the most harrowing moments of the war, I took a temporary break from reading after a particularly heartbreaking episode but then jumped back in.
This is so well written, so full of details of daily life, the life of everyday French soldiers living in and digging trenches; waiting, constantly waiting, so often in the rain.The war begins.Priority!
A voice goes off in the crowd like a firecracker: IT'S WAR!
(loc 162)When you read this you will have the beginning of a feeling for Jean and his attitude toward the war.
Convalescing from shrapnel wounds, Dartemont has this exchange with a friend of the family to whom he has spoken of Fear:'Still, you don't believe what you said, do you?''I really do believe it, as do many others.''But there is still such a thing as duty, they must have taught you that.''I've been taught a great many things - like you - and I'm aware that one has to choose between them.
War is nothing but a monstrous absurdity and nothing good or great will come from it.''Dartemont, think of your country!''My country?
I think both are excellent, Junger's book is a must read imo and of exceptional quality, but ultimately I align much more with Gabriel Chevallier: his disgust at the elites, their wanton carelessness in sending hundreds of thousands of men to be slaughtered in offensives they knew to be doomed from the start, the class-issues and elitism involved with this war (which he hits upon throughout the book), the pernicious nationalism yoked onto the citizenry by the state (also buttressed by bottom up mob mentality nationalism which he captures in an early scene in the book), and horror at the modernized industrialized warfare.
How broad was this sentiment I don't know, but it was certainly there amongst a subset of soldiers.It's interesting to me how people can experience a relatively similar thing but process it in such different ways.
Perché se solo affiora alle labbra del soldato lo trasforma in ciò che realmente è: un povero cristo mandato al macello.Ci va coraggio, e tanto, per raccontare la paura del soldato al fronte che rischia la vita per combattere una guerra insensata.Non si racconta la paura, non si deve.
Capisco che se gli schiavi si assoggettano tanto facilmente è perché non hanno più le forze per tentare una rivolta, né l’immaginazione per concepirla, né l’energia per organizzarla.
Fear, Anxiety, and Terror are Dartemont's constant companions, just as they accompany every other 'poilu' [common soldier].
It details Dartemont's coming upon dead Germans for the first time and his shock at how the bodies have been blown apart.
Every day we have less trust in our own luck....[Some] old hands who have been there from the start believe themselves immune, invulnerable, but most believe any luck will turn....Here everything is planned for killing...and yet we want to stay alive....the horror of war resides in growing anxiety: continuation, repetition of danger." Death can be seemingly random.
Written by a French veteran of the First World War, FEAR is one of the great anti-war novels.
Not as melodramatic as JOHNNY GOT HIS GUN nor even ALL QUIET ON THE WESTERN FRONT (and I use "melodramatic" only in a comparative sense), nor as absurdly comic as CATCH-22, Gabriel Chevallier's novel is simply (at least on the surface) a seemingly objective description of the life of a French poilu, or foot-soldier, in the trenches of northern France from 1914 to 1918.
FEAR is an obscure book compared to the classic anti-war novels mentioned above, and has only recently been rediscovered and reissued.
There are a lot of adjectives to describe The Great War, but I wouldn't use sadistic, other than that I'm sure there were sadists among the combatants, probably on both sides.
Both claim to be novels, but, as both are written in the first person and by combatants, it isn't difficult to think these are more memoir than fiction.Chevallier was wounded by shrapnel fairly early, spent time in hospital, then returned to his unit.
He speaks to the futility of this war, especially that most of the generals/colonels giving battle orders seemed either unfamiliar with the uses and effects of the new technology, or simply didn't care.
I've read three books on WWI this week. Without doubt this one was the most graphic and captured the brutality, pointlessness and evil of war in the trenches of WWI.A novel based on the author' own experience which is also interesting in that the man survived five years of fighting.Very descriptive of the carnage and wounds experienced, anger at the Generals and politicians and respectful of his fellow soldier where fear was a daily experience.It is probably one of the best WWI novels written.
In fact, though it is a novel with the hero Jean Dartremont it feels like a memoir, or really a series of scenes from the war, which only add to its power.
There are more terrifying battles scenes, winters in the mountains, evil officers risking the lives of soldiers they don't like while never getting close to the front, injuries and explosions and deaths and hardships.
In this centenary of the First World War this is a book that should be read, and thought about in light of today, when the leaders are probably no smarter and the national consciousness just as prone to sacrifice innocent victims for no cause.
This is Chevallier's fictionalized experience in World War I.
It was first published in 1930; then, as the Second World War arrived, it was suppressed.
Its message: war is disgusting, ugly, and pointless.
The generals, the commanders, the war planners, and officers, have their heads far up their butts; if they themselves were actually in combat, the war would get resolved exceedingly rapidly.I would not choose to read three (or even two) war novels back to back, but if that's up your alley, you could read this as part of a trilogy with All Quiet on the Western Front and The Stalin Front: A Novel of World War II.

Interior reflections and insights, such as his observation about the difference in his attachment to comrades he happened to know before the war compared with those met during it, are also striking.Sometimes Dartemont's character seems inconsistently drawn.
There are a few outright misogynistic comments in the first half of the novel, too, that can't really be explained away or contextualized as of the time (it was published in 1930) or expressing the brutality that war engenders in soldiers' attitudes.
Fear is an antiwar novel.
Given the date of its publication I think it must have been one of the first of the Great War antiwar novels.
My own judgment is that it is among the finest of the novels to come out of the war.As the title indicates, the novel is about the fear of men in combat.
as are all very good war novels.
Though thirty years ahead of Joseph Heller's great creation John Yossarian, Chevallier's Jean Dartemont is cut from the same cloth.
I've read a lot of the English WWI autobiographies (although this is technically a fiction, it's obviously informed by Chevallier's own experience in the trenches), Goodbye to All That, etc., and I have to say this blows it out of the water.
As the title indicates, Chevallier seeks to strip bare the pointless horror of mechanized warfare, and to redefine the doughy infantrymen as one who, with the rarest exceptions, is defined largely if not exclusively by a desperate, all consuming, immediate physical terror.
If you've ever wondered about what you would look like if you were forced to grab a rifle and hold a trench at the Somme, pick this one up and feel bad about yourself.
Although Gabriel Chevallier titled the novel based on his World War I experiences "Fear", it covers a much wider palette--anger, foolhardiness, boredom, even irreverence, mostly directed at authority.
In fact, at leave early on in the novel, his narrator, Jean Dartemont, is alienated even by the gauzy patriotism of his home town.
This is a work of controlled anger but also of intense humanity, with sharp portraits of not just Dartemont's fellow infantrymen, those who die and those who survive, including the occasional German, surrendering to the French or even working out codes of mutual warning with them.
Avendo letto molta letteratura della II guerra mondiale, considero questo uno dei classici assoluti, nella sua disarmante onestà e nella sua capacità di scandagliare la psicologia di uomini portati ai limiti della resistenza in condizioni spaventose, senza ipocrisie e senza veli. Assolutamente coinvolgente.
Placeholder reviewA pretty brutal and essential read. Lots of great historical information without much of a story. But war is like that.
One of the best books I have ever read. The true anti-war novel. There's no false bravery here.
About a third of the way into Gabriel Chevallier’s WWI novel, Fear, our young narrator, Jean Dartemont, finds himself in a hospital recuperating from wounds.
A great medley of clothes, customs and classes, a great clamour, a great cocktail of drinks, a new force given to individual initiatives, a need to smash things up, leap over fences, to break laws–all this, at the start, made the war acceptable.
Anti-war literature is by its nature, radical, subversive, but Fear, in its unsentimental detachment, doesn’t take the usual position of loss and waste, and instead emphasizes anger at the insanity of events which foments until Jean explodes with his opinions–no matter the consequences.
First published in 1930 this novel is based heavily on the author’s own experiences fighting in the Great War. Like his character, Jean Dartemont, he fought throughout the length of the war, incurring a relatively minor injury, and gaining despite his criticism and anti-war stance, many medals.
Once I’m dead, I don’t give a damn how the living divide up the world, about the frontiers they draw on maps, about their alliances and their enmities.
I demand to live in peace and to slowly become what I must become..
Think about all the people in your country whom you wouldn't go near, and you'll see that the ties that are supposed to bind us all together don't go very deep...I can assure you that none of the men I saw fall around me died thinking of his country, with the satisfaction of having done his duty." I don't believe that many people went off to fight in this war with the idea of sacrifice in their heads, as real patriots should have done."And page 110:"That word fear shocked you, didn't it?
He writes that the worst aspect of the war, worse than the bullets and bombs, is the mental anguish each one of them goes through to overcome their fear.
This book is not a celebration of war or duty, nor is there a moral or an inspirational message about someone overcoming adversity.
It's about doing anything possible to stay alive in the worst possible situation, year after year, and trying to make some kind of peace with it.
It's about trying to stay human in an inhumane environment.
The narrator's honesty about his fear is really his most courageous act.
a superb autobiographical novel of a foot soldier's life in the french army of wwi, so trenches, saps, horrible horrible bombings, gas, machine guns, going over the top, pows, wounds, and death so vivid there is no escape. but also told personable, funny, ironic with views on 'the brass', politicians, the folks 'back home', the press, thus funny in vonnegut and joseph heller way, insightful and dreadful like nothing else.the one novel of wwi (for those who limit themselves to 'only one')
Very brutal and vivid descriptions of life in the trenches, what one has do, go through to survive and then what one become's. It just boggles my mind what those soldiers had to endure on a day to day basis. The author's description of his first sight of the front is something out of a Hieronymus Bosch painting, total hell unleashed. A worthy read for anyone interested in WWI.
4.5 stars
1st person account - excellent
Like with officers that has beatenothers or ones that liked looks of man's private parts.Gabriel, the writer, survived attack on German lines with only five grenades that he didn't know how to use, living his well known rifle.then injured, goes to hospital.Quite different world of hospitality and illness.
After long „vacation” he goes to war with new job, in communication.
Again it's very good and truthful war biography.That sort of books can make you think twice before starting new conflict.
The display focuses rightly on the human side of the attack, highlighting personal stories, diary entries and seemingly hundreds of photos of young men and women.
He depicts soldiers on both sides of the war as ordinary young men who are as terrified of death as any modern reader would be in the same situation.
