https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/305826.Of_Woman_Born
At this crossroads of sexual possession, property ownership, and the desire to transcend death, developed the institution we know: the present-day patriarchal family with its supernaturalizing the penis, its division of labor by gender, its emotional, physical, and material possessiveness, its idea of monogamous marriage until death (and its severe penalties for adultery by the wife), the "illegitimacy" of a child born outside wedlock, the economic dependency of women, the unpaid domestic services of the wife, the obedience of women and children to male authority, the imprinting and continuation of heterosexual roles"3.
Not only do they refuse to continue the species; they also deprive society of its emotional leaven - the suffering of the mother"5.
She traces how patriarchal systems then drastically lowered women's role and value, and how childbirth was 'stolen' from midwives and turned into a 'medical procedure.'Rich is clearly angry about all this, and given the era she grew up in, it is understandable.
It is an excellent, empowering book for any woman who struggles to define herself outside the role of 'mother' or "woman without children." Her point of, "why do we define women who aren't mothers by something they don't have, rather than something they do?" rings true.
While it shares real expereince, which I appreciate, it also tends to demonize the 'mother.' I was especially put of by a section where she writes that motherhood is essentially a power trip for women and a way to exercise control.
While I can see how this may be the case with some parents (not only mothers), it is definitely not the case with all mothers.The parts of the book that attempt to shed light on some of the more painful expereinces women have as mothers, as well as the sections where she discusses how women's relationships with their own mothers affect their parenting is interesting, at times even valuable, but at other times it is again a bit demonizing.I'l update if and when I finish this book.
This is an excellent book about the myths and stereotypes surrounding motherhood, contrasted with the reality of Rich’s experience as a mother of three sons.
Though it was originally published in 1976, we’re still in thrall to the patriarchal system of motherhood that Rich describes and dates back to the dawn of monotheistic religion.
She writes about the bodily reality of motherhood and the crisis of purpose for both mothers and non-mothers: is becoming a mother really the only marker of a woman’s success?
New books about motherhood arrive every year – I’m looking forward to Sheila Heti’s, for instance – but it’s hard to imagine one more complete and profound than this.
Those who speak largely of the human condition are usually those most exempt from its oppressions—whether of sex, race, or servitude. At the end of this book, Rich says something about women, even at the time of her writing, thinking in ways that were ignored, derided, or actively suppressed by mainstream ideologies. I don't know whether she intended this to be self-reflection or irony, or if she had any intent at all that reflected on her own building of structures rather than the broadside an
At the end of this book, Rich says something about women, even at the time of her writing, thinking in ways that were ignored, derided, or actively suppressed by mainstream ideologies.
To put this in a way less oblique, between the time I read On Lies, Secrets And Silence and now, I have become increasingly and horribly aware of the connotations of the phrase "radical feminism" with all its TERF and SWERF offshoots that invest certain "women" the divine right to define what "woman" is.
Good thing I didn't read this in college, or I would never have gotten married and had a child. Or, maybe I should have read it then and sacrificed everything for my poetic career.A reminder of what being a gifted writer, committed feminist and serious thinker really means. Some of it is a little dated, but it's still like having a bucket of cold water poured on your head--infuriating, terrifying and enlightening all at once.
I read this long ago in one of my Feminist Theory courses. It basically changed my life and I believe I was lucky to read this before actually becoming a mother. I have so much less mother's guilt as I pursue my writing career.
'Of Woman Born' should be required reading for all: Rich interrogates the violence inherent in the institution of motherhood, how it infiltrates every aspect of our lives, how it limits our conception of who and what women are, and how this institution must be destroyed in order to mend not only our culture but our selves.
"There are ways of thinking we don't know about yet," Susan Sontag tells us, and Rich expands on this: "We need to imagine a world in which every woman is the presiding genius of her own body.
This is the book I should have started reading when I found out I was pregnant, but I'm so glad I finally got to it. It's an insightful look at womanhood and motherhood with no agenda except for women to find their own best journeys. I really appreciated Rich's blend of academic research and personal insight.
This is an amazing book -- Rich discusses the experience of motherhood and daughterhood from pre-birth to adulthood with exquisite language and emotion. Every mother and daughter, and every daughter who is thinking of becoming a mother should read this book. It is fantastic and really one of the most important feminist books of its time.
Adrienne Rich died today. She had a profound impact on me when this book was published, when I was 26 and not yet thinking about becoming a mother. Her poetry, especially "Diving into the Wreck" and "Dreaming a Common Language" moved me and challenged me.
At one point in the book, Rich tells a story about a woman who killed and decapitated two of her children in her front yard.
When Rich discusses this story with her poetry group, the women all agreed that they felt a direct connection with the woman`s desperation.
Rich also discusses the hatred that mothers feel towards their child, and the depression she felt throughout raising her three children.
At one point of the book, Rich writes "I had no idea of what I wanted, what I could or could not choose.
The first few chapters focused on the inherently speculative history of ancient societies that might have been women- and specifically mother-centered.
While that is interesting (even if it isn't true, it offers visions of ways of viewing motherhood that differ from the modern sentimental view), it wasn't really what I was after.
However, later chapters went into the history of midwifery and obstetrics, and Rich discusses the ongoing struggle for male control over women's sexuality and motherhood.
Reading this book after just having my second child was certainly timely and made it all the more relevant.
I enjoyed the historic element of the book in particular the analysis of the development of medical help in child birth and contrasting the approach of midwives verses OBs. Having recently received midwife care I could closely relate to the difference in approach despite some of the examples Rich cites occuring decades ago - much felt relevant today.
Although this book was written a good 30 years ago I would say it is still very relevant today.
Fascinating.
I love how Rich combines her feminist critique with anecdotes and reflections from her own experiences as a mother.
I don't necessarily agree with all of her conclusions (and some of the information is dated, since the book was written in the '70s), but I really related to her language.
Rather than dismissing the challenges of motherhood as minor frustrations, Rich really delves into the confusion and identity loss and overpowering sense of inadequacy that many mothers feel.
I've been thinking nonstop about some of the issues this book addresses.
With sturdy intelligence and an astute layering of research, personal experience and fresh insight, Adrienne Rich has created a timeless text that even at the beginning of the twenty-first century stands as a fascinating and thought-provoking study of women's challenges in modern societies.
The reader is continually drawn into the text and its visceral world of examples from literature, scientific texts and real life testimonies.
Throughout the book, I was in constant awe of Ms. Rich's ability to turn her personal experiences into pitch perfect testimony that took this academic study to a more engaging level.
Το μόνο που έχω να πω είναι ότι είμαι πολύ χαρούμενη που το βρήκα μεταφρασμένο στα ελληνικά και κατάφερα να το διαβάσω στη γλώσσα μου και να το κατανοήσω καλύτερα. Η Rich, της οποίας το έργο γνώρισα πριν λίγο καιρό στο πανεπιστήμιο, με αυτό το εξαιρετικό έργο της με προβλημάτισε σε σχέση με την μητρότητα αλλά και τον φεμινισμό. Αλλά και γενικότερα για τους ρόλους των γυναικών και των ανθρώπων μέσα στην κοινωνία. Με τη δεύτερη ανάγνωση σίγουρα θα ανακαλύψω περισσότερα!!!!!
I wasn't that into the mother-goddess bit, and I would have liked to have more of Rich's personal story/experiences. Otherwise, this book made me mad (in a good way). I wish I'd read it years ago.
Ayant lu rapidement le résumé, je m'attendais "simplement" à une réflexion sur la maternité et le rôle de mère, mais je ne m'attendais vraiment pas à la réflexion approfondie sur l'enfantement, la maternité et la femme, sociologique, historique et un peu personnelle aussi, qu'Adrienne Rich nous livre ici.Autant elle s'inscrit à la suite des réflexions anthropologiques de Margaret Mead et Johann Jakob Bachofen sur les sociétés matriarcales, gynocratiques et/ou patriarcales et les éléments qui la composent qu'à la suite des réflexions de Kate Millett (Sexual Politics) sur les attributs du patriarcat contemporain et leur incidence sur la vie des femmes.
To give birth, to embrace motherhood, to find oneself feeling trapped in it, to choose not to have a child, to struggle with infertility and remain childless, to struggle with infertility and have a child through IVF or adoption...if you are a woman, there is a part of you that will always define itself by how it relates to motherhood.
Rich's experience of motherhood is not one that I particularly relate to, but her documentation of her ambivalence and discomfort with it is vitally necessary in a world that tells us that motherhood should be universally embraced.
In the canon of great feminist thinkers, particularly from the second-wave, Adrienne Rich is less a household name than Betty Friedan or Gloria Steinem. She shouldn't be. Her treatise on motherhood and what it means in the history of society, not just relationally, but as a social construct, is profound. To read words written in the mid 1970s that still ring true today is both comforting and horrifying. Rich connects us to our history - mothers to daughters - and provides a path forward that, 45 years later, we have yet to find.
This book is such a heavy, yet necessary and thought-provoking read. It shows motherhood from a whole different perspective- gone are the assumptions that motherhood is the rosy, fluffy, ‘all-is-well-in-the-world-now’ picture society teaches us it is. Some of Rich’s anecdotes and statements might seem anti-motherhood, but once you read between the lines and actually understand what she’s talking about, it all makes sense. The thing that startles me most is that this book is more than 40 years old and still so relevant to today’s society. Scary, actually. We still have such a long way to go.
Some parts are dated/dry as dust, but when Rich is incisive and brilliant, no one writes like her.
Boom!!! Still radical. No one thinks deeper, or with more active conscience, than Rich.
"The woman's body is the terrain on which patriarchy is erected."
so much and so little has changed. many brilliant insights, lovely writing
Very powerful excourse into understadning of women and institutions that subverted their power during all these centuries. It is written with poetry and deep feeling.
“Only when we can wish imaginatively and courageously for ourselves can we wish unfetterdly for our daughters”
Essential reading for anyone who is a mother, knows a mother, has a mother.
Rich's work is deeply interesting and dynamic, as she explores the institution and the "potential relationship" or experience of motherhood through historical and literary research, as well as talking about her experiences as her mother's daughter and as her three sons' mother.
I love how she ends the book: “The repossession by women of our bodies will bring far more essential change to human society than the seizing of the means of production by workers.
In such a world women will truly create new life, bringing forth not only children (if and as we choose) but the visions, and the thinking, necessary to sustain, console, and alter human existence – a new relationship to the universe.
