https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/9695786-trastulli-d-animali
With exaggerated characters and recurring poetry that echoes like a refrain, The Frolic of Beasts reads like an tragicomic opera, and who will emerge as hero or villain will be determined by whose story you find most sympathetic.Read my full review here: https://wp.me/p4cJzL-3Up
I am SO happy that we FINALLY got another Mishima novel translated into English.
If this novel does well in the states, than we may get the rest of his books translated in the near future.
Also, in my opinion, this is a GREAT book.
Also, when the story is good, it is phenomenal.
If you are at all an advocator for translated work, give Mishima a shot!
Just remember: separate the art with the artist (that's another story for another day).I am giving this one a 4 out of 5 stars.
Sono personaggi riflessi uno nell'altro ma che non si penetrano mai, si rimangono sempre esterni.Questo è un romanzo faticoso perché fino a ben oltre la metà, fino cioè al monologo di Koji a Ippei, si ha l'impressione che manchi la "chiave" (guarda un po'!
Da lì, tutto diviene un po' più semplice, perché Mishima non ti dà LA chiave universale, ma se non altro ti dà la verità di UNO dei personaggi, il che in un romanzo del genere è già molto.
Ho qualche difficoltà con gli autori giapponesi,poiché non riesco ad immedesimarmi completamente nel
As the novel goes on, it become apparent that each character is a "beast" in their own way.
The Frolic of Beasts was a beautiful representation on how flawed we are as humans and the impact of human desire.There were time in the novel when it was hard to follow the timeline.
There wasn't a lot of time dedicated to character building so a lot was left up to assumption.
The mentor-apprentice relationship between Koji and Ippei was not clear and if it wasn't for the novella's description, I would have had no idea how they were connected.
**I received a copy of this book from NetGalley in exchange for an honest review. All opinions are my own****3.5 Stars**This was a very intriguing, well-written novel. It did take me a bit to really engage with it. Initially it seems like a pretty basic premise, but the prose makes it standout.
And that one impulsive act relentlessly leads to more brutality in the poetically written novel The Frolic of the Beasts.This novel by Yukio Mashima was first published in Japan in 1961 and has now received its first English translation.
Mishima is considered to be one of the most important avant-garde Japanese authors of the 20th century, having written a number of novels, plays and poems.In The Frolic of the Beast (digital galley, Penguin Classics) Mishima explores the unusual psychological bonds that hold the three main characters together and hints at the disturbing power lust has to influence individuals.
In un'atmosfera rarefatta e inquietante seppur calma, l'autore più che narrare dipinge con grazia ed eleganti pennellate la storia di un delitto passionale.Non è il migliore dei suoi, ma è molto ben scritto.
