https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2060436.Goya
şi n-a fost) şi personajele principale ale acestora; sunt apoi cărţi scrise fluent, cărţi ca o apă lină, de munte, cu un fir narativ închegat şi cu o psihologie complexă, aici fiind situat -de exemplu!- Hemingway cu mai toate romanele sale; în cele din urmă, sunt cărţi -ca cea de faţă- care nu numai că au firul narativ închegat şi înlănţuit, ci -mai mult de atât!- tratează teme sociale care aparent n-au nicio importantă (condiţia artistului în cadrul istoriei, în cazul de faţă), dar care, privite atent, te lasă buimăcit.
Then by chance on my way to Spain at the airport bookstore I saw this painting by Goya on a book cover, read the jacket text and was intrigued.And this book captured me from the first page.
When I finished it I was aghast to find out that Feuchtwanger never wrote the second part that was initially intended.Altogether however, while this is one of my all time favorite books and I also believe it is one of the most important and best books ever written in general - I do not know that everybody would love this book the way I do.
I finished this book feeling filled up but wanting more. I kept it with me from the day and time I started it until I finished. I feel the author alive with me now. I feel Goya alive with me now. I felt Goya's paintings come to life. They are still alive and with me. I lived and breathed the Spanish Inquisition and the French Revolution - The truth about the suppression of art, ideas, thoughts and beliefs of all kinds. THIS IS MORE THAN A BOOK! I LOVED EVERYTHING ABOUT IT! I will be reading Lion Feuchtwanger again. SOON!
no better book on Goya's Spain has ever been written
One suspects that Feuchtwanger was a Jungian, but even if he wasn’t he certainly had an admirable understanding of the human psyche; Goya takes on his Shadow aspects directly through his more horrific engravings and paintings but remains a great lover of life, of theatre and music and the sensory details of color and texture and clothing, and especially of women.
Feuchtwanger does a particularly good job of getting into the mind of the painter as he creates some of his greatest works; I found myself looking up many of Goya’s familiar paintings and appreciating them in an entirely new light.
I absolutely love Feuchtwanger, he is one of my all-time favourite authors.
This book is really quite brilliant but then again, I am yet to find a Feuchtwanger book I don't like.
I wish he had written the second part because it does end a bit abrupt, I thought.
I'm still to read a non-fiction biography of Goya so I'm not sure how "accurate" Feuchtwanger's portrayal of Goya is but I found it really engaging and illuminating.
I suspect though that Feuchtwanger would have done a bit of research, so perhaps his novel isn't too far off...
Epic Classics - Lion Feuchtwanger was able to create such ingenious workthat will be read for hundred years! Everyone should read it !
As a huge fan of Goya's art works I read several sources about his life but none can be compared with this masterpiece.
There are still debates surrounding the woman on the portraits, if it was Pepa Tudo or The Dutchess of Alba.
The majority tends to believe that it was Manuel Godoy's lover Pepa as this masterpiece was in his private collection and it is not the body of a 35 sth woman.
Mr Feuchtwanger believes it was Alba but not accurately potrayed, kind of his own perception of love of Goya's life.
He chose to speculate on some uncertain events in the artist's life in a different way to another author, Stephen Marlowe, had done in his novel 'Colossus' and I found his alternative take intriguing and equally plausible.
It will always be Colossus, for it's narrative drive and more complete look at the artist's life and times - I also think it is more likely to inspire any reader's interest in the fabulous art created by Goya, so that they seek out the images to view them for themselves.Having said that, I'm also glad to have read my first book by Lion Feuchtwanger - it will definitely not be my last!
Knjigu najbolje opisuje baš jedan njen deo:"Svi su poznavali tu povest, ali ona je bila nepoznata i nova ovakva kakvu ju je (on) dao.
On se nije bojao da događaje koji nisu bili poznati , koji su se mogli možda samo naslućivati prikaže kao činjenice.
Ali za čudo: on ih je ispričao tako kao da su se činili stvarni, da se drukčije nisu mogli ni zamisliti."Nikada više Gojine (a verovatno i bilo koje druge) slike neću gledati na isti način.
Dobile su neslućene dubine, a Goja i svi likovi tako jasne obrise, ljudske, promenljive i uverjive.
It is a well written book where the writer has succeeded to express the development of the main character in a linear time. It presents quite well the stages Goya completes to become the painter of the realism by showing the degradation of monarchy, church and aristocracy.
Сложный период, переживаемый Испанией в конце 18 века - распущенность аристократии, вынужденное объединение с новообразованной Республикой Франции, тяжелые условия сотрудничества непосредственно с Наполеоном, война испанской королевской четы с собственной дочерью, правившей в Португалии, все еще сильная позиция Инквизиции, - все это явилось фоном повествования и внешними источниками стресса для Гойи.
Хочется верить, что это было их счастье, такое непонятное и странное для остальных.
Судьба была неумолима, и в довершение всего Гойя оглох.Много всего навалилось на него, но именно благодаря трудностям родился гениальный альбом офортов "Капричос", парад уродцев, пороков, мерзостей.
Немного нудновато, но опять же, я же ее прочитала! На самом деле, название «тяжкий путь познания» немного громковато для этой «мыльной оперы». Исторический роман с кучей действующих лиц, инквизиция, испанские гранды, короли и королевы – в общем, читалось весьма интересно.
Macht Spaß, ist exzellent recherchiert, gut und spannend geschrieben und eröffnet neue - teils spekulative - Blickweisen auf die Werke Goyas.
Роман мені сподобався. Опис середньовічного іспанського суспільства, яскраві образи художника Франсіско Гойя, герцогині де Альба.
A heavy read (Feuchtwanger!) but brilliant and well worth it. Classic. Seriously. Goya is complicated artist, and book tells his story with passion.
Lion Feuchtwanger de "Goya" es una novela extravagante y atrevida.
La profundidad de los personajes y sus perfiles detallados iluminan la trama de esta historica novela ya sea desde el sanguínario y avaricioso Manuel Godoy, la maquiavélica y vulnerable Reina María Luisa de Parma o la duquesa un tanto ficticia de Cayetana de Alba.Feuchtwanger coloca al maestro aragonés, en medio de un ambiente extravagante, lleno de hienas políticas, fanáticos religiosos, familiares y amigos manipuladores.
I fall in love with Spain and Spanish people and learnt so much in such an enjoyable way!
The only thing which made me feel a big strange is that I want to know how much truth exactly in it.
I saw mahas and mahos in every Spanish person and broken Goya's hart in his paintings of Duchess of Alba.
But I believed in it so much that now I just want to know how exactly did it happened!
It's a very powerful book, it makes you fall in love with another country and get completely obsessed with Francisco Goya's art.
Какой бы не являлась читателю фигура Гойи, верить Фейхтвангеру всё равно нельзя. Нужно изучать дополнительные источники. Хотя бы те, на которые опирался сам сеньор Лион. Немного погодя он напишет ещё один роман из истории Испании про печальную участь красавицы-еврейки из Толедо, над созданием которой трудилось достаточное количество людей, чтобы у Фейхтвангера появилась возможность внести своё веское слово, опираясь на ранее известное, дополняя собственной порцией вымысла. Романтизм требует жертв со стороны описываемых действующих лиц — Лион в своём праве искажать прошлое на своё усмотрение. Только читатель должен быть острожным. Обязан быть острожным.(c) Trounin
Another from my mother's collection of books. I resisted this book because it was entitled, "This is the Hour", which called to mind some 1950s political screed. One day I started to page through it and saw the references to Goya. Having spent my semester abroad in Madrid, and a good part of it in the Prado Museum, I wanted to read more.I'm about 1/3 through it, but love it so far.
Brilliant book about the painter and much more, thrilling, fast pace, plenty of well written characters, I read it at least 5 times ( like most Czechs I know.Dear to us because it is also about censorship, ideology ( Inquisition) and Royal family oppressing artistic freedom.This book also makes you understand his paintings better.
Well written but historically stretched pretty thin, this book was an entertaining read, much enlivened by many tiny and delightful reproductions of Goya's works, including a few full color reprints of his larger portraits. But don't trust the author's version of events, even if they constitute a capricious flight of fancy. Goya's life was no romance novel.
Buon romanzo su una parte della vita di Goya e sulla sua relazione con i potenti dalla famiglia reale, alla Duchessa di Alba, alla Inquisizione.Interessante, Vien voglia di tornare in spagna e di vederne i quadri...
soooo loooong! and considering how little is really known about Goya's life, started questioning everything in this book. Plus, not a single sympathetic character made it seem even looooonger!
Die Affäre Goyas mit der Herzogin von Alba steht im Mittelpunkt des Romans
A good read, very interesting insight on Spain of the French revolution times
It was life altering book for me. I still have my first paper issue of it among few paper books that I kept somewhat over 25 years.
Amazing
здорово быть допущенным в мастерскую художника, читать и находить портреты, а в портретах мелкие детали
I hated the painter so much. He is a very bad person. I felt a very strong disgust when I was reading it.
