https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/420159.Meet_Felicity
I understand that she is a 'spunky, free-spirited, independent' girl, which seems like others who reviewed this enjoyed, being different from the typical proper girls in the other books (which I haven't read, so I don't know), but I think there's a clear line between independence and disobedience.
I think they could have still kept her free-spirited nature while having her not so blatantly doing so many wrong things with no remorse (Like Laura Ingalls Wilder, she was a great spunky girl, but didn't purposely do wrong things.
Rereading the American Girl books because springtime makes me nostalgic... I forgot how good this one was. :)
So fun to revisit my favorite American Girl from when I was growing up!
Felicity was one of my favorite of the American Girls.
She lives in a fascinating time period, which is explored through her relationships and her reactions to events, in a manner that brought the American War for Independence and its issues to life for me in a way no textbook ever could.
Felicity is a young girl when unrest begins brewing between the Colonists and the Crown.
When war breaks out, her neighbors and even her own family find themselves on opposite sides.
She has to choose her own side and also learn to appreciate the choices of others.
Years ago, but noting it here in honor of the teatime at the American Girl Place with dear family earlier this week.
3.5*I always loved the horse theme with the Felicity books. I love reading about Felicity (view spoiler)[rescuing Penny from Jiggy Nye (hide spoiler)].
Although the main storyline in this book is about Felicity's attempt to secure a horse, there are many underling historically accurate parts to the story such as the gender specific roles of boys and girls of the era.
Additonally, the rising issues of the colonies against their Mother Country, England are highlighted in this book.One teaching idea that could be used with this text is to have students read the text and then discuss gender roles of that era.
Felicity is living in colonial Williamsburg where her fathers runs a general store and she would much rather ride horses than practice her stitching.
Plus, all of the illustrations had Felicity in pretty dress patterns.Felicity was incredibly headstrong and bordered on disobedient for most of the book.
She was obsessed with a horse named Penny who was captive to a crotchety old man named Jiggy Fye. It was actually disturbing to read the abusive dialogue and actions he presented to the horse.
I liked the quiet apprentice who let Felicity borrow his breeches to ride the horse.
I have the next book in the series but I will grudgingly finish them.
a must read
Title (italicize): FelicityAuthor: Valerie TrippIllustrator (if separate from author): Dan AndreasenGenre: HistoricalTheme(s): Empowerment, authority roles, family, friendship, hard work, kindness, colonialism, female roles in society Opening line/sentence (type directly from text): Felicity Merriman pushed open the door to her fathers store and took a deep breath.Brief Book Summary (2-3 sentences in your own words): This story takes place right before the American Revolution.
(Middleton WI:), PUBLISHED: c1991.) Professional Recommendation/Review #2 (cut & paste): Elisabeth Greenberg (Children's Literature) Felicity Merriman will walk into every feisty horse-loving girl s heart.
(Middleton WI:), PUBLISHED: c1991.) Response to Two Professional Reviews: Both authors discuss how the illustrators add to the story.
Felicity is so far my favorite American Girl.
In this first book of the series we follow Felicity on her mission to save a horse named Penny.
Traveling back to the 1700s before the American Revolution, readers gain an idea of what colony life must have felt like; the things they valued, the politics at the time, and the conditions in which they lived.
Her stories are also informative to readers about America, before it was America.
The off-yellow tone of the illustrations add to the impression of these stories being from a different time.
I remember loving these books as a child, but I don't remember Felicity being so disobedient?
She does exactly what her parents tell her not to do and doesn't really get any punishment?I do like how the book talks about what it was like to be a girl during the 1700's and how grateful of all the women's rights we experience today!I wish our generation was more grateful to women who came before us and stopped pushing more and more rights- I feel American women have the most opportunity they have ever had in our country!
It's a great time to be alive and each of these American Girl books remind us of that- we have come so far and I am thankful!
This is the first book in my goal to read all of the classic American Girl books.
I was surprised at how quick they went.
The structure for the American Girl books seem to be that there is a lot of build up, but as soon as the "goal" for the book is accomplished it ends.
It was also nice because I started the 2nd one right after, so I almost felt like part one of one big book, instead of the first book in a series.
This was a very interesting story.Felicity Merriman is a fiesty young girl who doesn't have a lot of patience for learning what girls and young women are supposed to learn to be successful during 1774. Her focus and longing and interest lies elsewhere. In this case, with a mistreated horse.Kudos to Felicity for taking on a bully. I enjoyed reading this story and am looking forward to reading the rest of her collection. [SPOILER ALERT]This did not end as tidily as I thought it would.
Felicity, a young Colonial girl, is a spirited rebel. She loves the outdoors and animals, especially horses!! She is not fond of needlework, handwriting or any aspect of the domestic arts.She discovers a horse, which she calls Penny, is being abused and starved by the cruel owner Jiggy Nye.Felicity takes great risks to befriend and save Penny!!Parts of the book's plot line seem unrealistic ---It is difficult to believe that Felicity could leave her home, undetected, during the night for five weeks.  Meet Felicity is an interesting historical novel, for children!
This is a good book in reference to the history it contains. A word of caution, Felicity consistently disobeys her parents and doesn’t get into trouble and one of the characters uses rather coarse language.
The American Girl series is fun and easy to read.
Historical FictionAges: 8-12Grade level: 4-5
Trying to clear off all my bookshelves... anyone remember these books?
I can't remember anything that would help me actually judge the level of literary skill displayed in this book. I just remember disliking it.
My daughter and I have been working our way through the various historical American Girl stories and this one was disappointing. It taught nothing about the revolutionary era, and the main character sneaks out at night, risks her life, and basically commits horse thievery and gets away with it. Not a great example for girls.
My very favorite book series as a child! Horses, needlepoint, sticking it to the man, and the original heartthrob- Ben Davidson!
Cried
I enjoyed this book and hopefully I'll like the next ones. I liked these and other American Girl books because of the history inside.
I like to see how other people feel about historic problems. It can be hard.
American Girl re-read
One of my favorites as a child, and still my favorite of the American Girl books!
I liked that she was from colonial America, and I liked that she had red hair and green eyes.
Felicity falls in love with the horse and calls her Penny.
As Jiggy has a difficult time taming Penny, Felicity hears him say that anyone who can ride the horse can have her.
Of course Felicity takes this seriously, and so she gets up early every morning and goes to see Penny to try to tame her enough that she can ride her.I love the American Girls series.
After all this reading of kid's books this past year and a half, I knew that sooner or later I would have to read one of the American Girls series.
The American Girls, if you don't know, is a combination of literature of marketing.
On the literature side, you have a series of books telling stories about nine-year-old girls in different eras of American history.
According to my wife and daughters, the books are also pretty well written, so I've had no compunctions about letting the girls read and collect them.
Felicity is the Revolutionary War-era American girl.
I remember waaay back then when the American Girls collection had just 4 or 5 dolls.
I was pretty young back then and saw a catalog for these dolls and all their nifty accessories, and dang, I wanted these dolls, they were gorgeous!
I never got a doll, but I did read the books, or at least a good amount of them.
Looking back, I can honestly say I enjoyed the book, and it was age-appropriate for its target audience and is a nice piece of historical fiction that introduces some history and new knowledge to its readers.
(albeit in a more simplified/accessible way for its audience)
