https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/121749.Prince_Caspian
Later, Lewis splits the party in a way that divides the action in the story.But the biggest issue is that the characters lapse into archaic, courtly English when the a bunch of the people are talking at the end of the book.
(Doubly archaic now, as Lewis wrote these 50 years ago.) My boy couldn't follow it at all, as there were 2-4 unfamiliar terms used in every sentence, and context can only stretch so far.) Because of that, Oot couldn't understand whole sections of the climax of the book, when the Telmarines were talking among themselves, and planning on betraying their king.
Hamlet with badgers.
You doubt your value. Don't run from who you are.  The Pevensie siblings (Peter, Susan, Edmund and Lucy) spent the last year daydreaming about Narnia. Despite the horrors of the White Witch, but they constantly think about returning to Narnia for they are only truly themselves when they are with Aslan.  Feeling like the voice she liked best in all the world was calling her name. And when they suddenly find themselves thrust back into Narnia, they discover one very, very important thing:  Things
The Pevensie siblings (Peter, Susan, Edmund and Lucy) spent the last year daydreaming about Narnia.
And when they suddenly find themselves thrust back into Narnia, they discover one very, very important thing: 
The siblings soon realize that time moves far differently in Narnia than it does in the real world.
It's up to them to put the one, true prince on Narnia's throne and right the world that has gone so far astray.I did appreciate how C.
S. Lewis wrote his female characters with a bit of spunk and sass in them:
“That's the worst of girls," said Edmund to Peter and the Dwarf.
“Things never happen the same way twice.”  Admittedly Prince Caspian was boring at first for I didn't like the symbolic meaning of the whole book. It was hard to read and that incredible ending nearly shut me out from enjoying, it's abrupt and unsatisfied at all. Although I quie liked the movie, the book is so much different. The pace is excruciatingly slow. I didn't like the over-descriptive narration talking about everything including flowers, sky, and trees. “Wouldn't it be dreadful if some
Admittedly Prince Caspian was boring at first for I didn't like the symbolic meaning of the whole book.
Although I quie liked the movie, the book is so much different.
“Wouldn't it be dreadful if some day in our own world, at home, men start going wild inside, like the animals here, and still look like men, so that you'd never know which were which.” 
But around the middle, the story was a downfall, there're so many subtle meanings between the pages, it gave me such a headache that I had to think about it many times.However, this book isn't awful.
“Feeling like the voice she liked best in all the world was calling her name.” 
Prince Caspian: the return to Narnia (Chronicles of Narnia, #2), C.S. LewisPrince Caspian (originally published as Prince Caspian: The Return to Narnia) is a high fantasy novel for children by C.
It was the second published of seven novels in The Chronicles of Narnia (1950–1956), and Lewis had finished writing it in 1949, before the first book was out.
It is volume four in recent editions of the series, sequenced according to Narnia history.
Prince Caspian features "return to Narnia" by the four Pevensie children of the first novel, about a year later in England but 1300 years later in Narnia.
It is the only book of The Chronicles with men dominating Narnia.
I'm mad at myself because I wanted to read the first of the Narnia series before reading this one for class, but I didn't quite make it.I loved this story because I love Lucy and Aslan and Caspian, but there were a lot of side characters who I didn't care much about and the villain in this book wasn't so interesting. Nevertheless, a muuuuch easier read than Lord of the Rings!!
That said it was still enjoyable and a wild ride from railway station to Cair Paravel to King Miraz’s castle to the Fords of Beruna to Aslan’s Howe to a railway station.
Along the way we meet some new characters in the form of questionable dwarves (rightly so in my opinion), loyal badgers, chattering squirrels and courtly mice, oh and dozy giants.
An enjoyable novel that gives yet more insight into the Narnian world and reinforces the messages of understanding and tolerance, always a good thing.Again it has to be 4⭐️ without doubt.
More precisely PRINCE CASPIAN, the true king of Narnia needs them back.
And the children are ready for a new adventure in the land that thousand - years ago they used to be Kings and Queens themselves.
Everyone remembers Narnia's golden age and everyone is hoping that a just King will appear and will bring prosperity and safety again to the rightful population of Narnia.There two stories in this book that mingle: The story of the prince Caspian and how he claims this throne and the story of the four children’s return to Narnia.
3.75 ⭐️
This is my fourth journey into the fantastical lands of Narnia, as I have chosen to read the series in chronological rather than publication order.From the very first line I knew I was sure to love this book as it details the return of the Pevensie children from The Lion, the Witch, and the Wardrobe, the most famous and my most beloved Narnia tale.
Only one year later in the human world, and centuries later in Narnian time, the children return to find their beloved castle an ivy-clad ruin and the land they knew and loved altered beyond all recognition.
^_^ They make you feel like you are watching a movie in your head while you are reading every word!
(If that makes any sense lol) I love the little bits of humor that C.S. Lewis through in every once and a while like this quote, “That's the worst of girls," said Edmund to Peter and the Dwarf.
"They never can carry a map in their heads.""That's because our heads have something inside them," said Lucy.”I don't know why I love that quote so much, but I do :p I definitely recommend this series and of course, the movies are amazing as well!
Today, I've read a passage that I find disturbing and quite out of character for CS Lewis: p.72 "Shall we go farther up for you, up to the crags?
Here's a passage that I just love which describes Edmund who may be a boy, but is also a king:P.174An hour later two great lords in the army of Miraz, the Lord Glozelle and the Lord Sopespian, strolling along their lines and picking their teeth after breakfast, looked up and saw coming down to them from the wood the Centaur and Giant Wembleweather, whom they had seen before in battle, and between them a figure they could not recognise.
This book in the chronicles takes us back to a "new" Narnia where the tyrant Miraz is reining.
The old Narnia is disappeared and with it the talking beasts, dwarfs, centaurs, dryads and naiads.
The beautiful and colourful description of "old" Narnia and its inhabitants (talking beasts, dwarfs, centaurs, dryads and naiads) makes the reader yearns to be there, among them in peace and bliss.
The introductory characters of Prince Caspian and Dr. Cornelius were likable and interesting.
I also like the new characters of talking beasts, especially Reepicheep, the mouse.
I've read four books in the chronicles now and so far, Prince Caspian and The Lion, the Witch and the Wardrobe are my favourites.
I read this several times as a kid.
It was never high up in the series for me.
I have to admit that the movie Disney made did such a great job with it that I now appreciate this book more.
I didn't much care for Prince Caspian until I saw the movie (Yes, maybe it had something to do with the actor).
Still, this is part of a great series and I'm glad another generation has the chance to enjoy them.Men from Earth have oppressed Narnia.
The children are called back to help put Prince Caspian back on the thrown.
A really strong start but it sort of dropped of half way through and felt like it was dragging (despite being only 200 pages). I'm really excited to read the next one though. I want to get back to Narnia!
I think I may like this story even better than The Lion the Witch and the Wardrobe. Is that heresy to say? Nothing can replace that first step through the wardrobe into Narnia...but in terms of plot, I think I like Prince Caspian better.
What can you say. Another fantastic adventure in Narnia! And of course,I cried at the end.
But we also are told about the rightful heir of this new Narnia, Prince Caspian, who wishes to restore the land to its Golden Age when Peter, Edmund, Susan and Lucy ruled from Cair Paravel and who is even now in hiding with the Old Narnians, trying desperately to restore overthrow his wicked uncle and bring peace, prosperity, and magic back to the land.Only after hearing all this back story, does C.S. Lewis allow our four children to head out into the world on their grand adventure to aid Prince Caspian and thereby restore Narnia to its former glory.I enjoyed this book via audio book (which is a fairly new “reading” medium for me) and found the experience enjoyable and the actors’ performances well done.
Instagram || Twitter || Facebook || Amazon || PinterestI recently decided to reread the Narnia series, only I decided to go about it in chronological order instead of publication order. What does this change? It means you read THE MAGICIAN'S NEPHEW first, instead of THE LION, THE WITCH AND THE WARDROBE, that there's a book about totally random characters sandwiched in between TLTW (THE HORSE AND HIS BOY) before the series settles back into the usual order.I never really liked PRINCE CASPIAN bef
It means you read THE MAGICIAN'S NEPHEW first, instead of THE LION, THE WITCH AND THE WARDROBE, that there's a book about totally random characters sandwiched in between TLTW (THE HORSE AND HIS BOY) before the series settles back into the usual order.I never really liked PRINCE CASPIAN before.
Caspian, who has Susan's magic horn (you know, the one Aslan gave to her instead of a weapon because he sucks), brought her, Peter, Lucy, and Edmund here just in time for the final battle, which ends up being weirdly anticlimactic.
Book #4 in The Chronicles of Narnia, Prince Caspian reunites readers with Peter, Susan, Edmund, and Lucy who find themselves traveling back to Narnia.
But this Narnia is different from the one which they left.
In fact, many years have passed and their time in Narnia has become something of a legend that no one quite believes to be true.
The quartet soon become entwined with the fate of a young man known as Prince Caspian.
Adventure and magic follow and a lot of new characters snuggle their way into reader's hearts.
With Prince Caspian, I am adding dear Edmund to the list.
Por Narnia, por el leónMe fascinó, mi favorito hasta el momento, me encantaron los nuevos personajes en la historia, la forma en que se fue desarrollando la historia desde qué volvieron a llegar a Narnia los hermanos y sin duda como Lewis tiene esa manera única de narrar sus libros, en forma de que te lo esta contando como si alguien te contará un relato, o esa manera en no ir contando cosas que no servirían a la trama, todo directo y lo que tiene que ser.
Hasta ahora es mi favorito de la saga, me encantó.
(view spoiler)[Triste que Susan y Peter ya no tienen que volver (hide spoiler)] pero así es la vida.
Ahora a ver la película, a ver que tal la adaptaron.
And now I have two pleasures in reading these books: enjoying my old childhood joy, and analyzing the writing itself.One thing I remember noticing even as a child is the absolute dearth of femaleness.
I don't mean female characters per se: in terms of having someone to care about and directly identify with, there's always a female child as well as a male one.
(Everyone loves Lucy.) I mean that Lewis seems not to have understood that where there are sons, there must be mothers.(Belated warning: There will be spoilers.
But Lewis is determined to manage somehow.You'd never know from reading this review so far that I love these books.
Υπέροχο, ένα από τα καλύτερα παραμυθικά φαντασυ βιβλία που έχω διαβάσει!!! Ζώα που μιλούν, δρυάδες, νάνοι, φαυνοι... όλοι οι μαγικοί κόσμοι, τα μαγικά όντα και οι παλιοί μύθοι παρελαύνουν αρμονικά στον τόπο που τον λένε Νάρνια! Είναι σκέτο ξεμυάλισμα αυτή η σειρά!
Things never happen the same way twice”I always love the Narnian adventures(though I find the books a bit too kiddy!) So, this was indeed a fantastic adventure but I liked the Lion, the Witch and the Wardrobe more (which really took my breath away *Aslan...my...Love*).
This book will definitely appeal to the middle grade students who want a bit of a what-to-say, Fantasy touch in their pretty little lives.
But I love all the characters and the world building and the settings and dot-dot-dot...And Narnia's always gonna be my all-time favorite dream destination right after Hogwarts...Looking forward to reading the other books in the series!!!“Aslan: You doubt your value.
Referir a algunas niñas como 'infantiles' y mencionar sus 'piernas gordas' parece un elemento innecesario al texto, pero también necesito recordar que estos libros no fueron escritos en este siglo, donde tal escritura es inaceptable.Una vez más, estas historias son lo suficientemente fuertes como para hacer frente a sus propias debilidades.Toda esta serie me conmueve en un nivel emocional tan profundo, a pesar de la simplicidad de los cuentos.
A menudo buscamos conclusiones más complejas, pero es tan refrescante leer algo donde el bien está seguro de vencer al mal y estar contento de que todo lo que está mal será restaurado con razón.
" هیچ چیز دوبار یک جور رخ نمی دهد "فانتزی های دلنشین فانتزی هایی هستند که وقتی سرت رو از رو کتاب بر میداری تا به کارهای دیگه ات برسی ، همچنان ماجرا هاش رو توی ذهنت حلاجی می کنی، بهش فکر میکنی و حتی خوابش رو میبینی.
شاید فکر کنید دوباره ماجرای به دردسر افتادن نارنیا و کمک پسران آدم و دختران حوا و اصلان برای نجات اونه ولی همون طور که اصلان می گه : هیچ چیز دوبار یکجور رخ نمیده.با شخصیت های دوست داشتنی تری رو به رو میشیم.
گره های داستان و روندش به نظر من از کتاب اول بهتر و جذاب تره.
I’m really glad I’m reading these in publication order and not chronological order this time. I’m finding it’s making a difference in the way the series flows and I’m enjoying it more this way so far. But no matter what order I read these books in, I love them just the same! This book introduces one of my favourite characters of the series Reepicheep, I just love how brave he is despite his size!
lol this is nothing like the movie but it is soooo gooooood :')especially the part where they follow Aslan down the gorge!! MY HEART!
This is the review I wrote for the overall series:The Lion, the Witch and the Wardrobe by CS Lewis is one of the books in his series, the Chronicles of Narnia in which Christianity is portrayed through various fantasy creatures.
I used to sit in a closet with the door closed and a flashlight reading my favorite books after reading this series, in hopes that someday a door would open and take me to another realm.
The Lion, Aslan, is a wonderful character as well, but I have to admit, knowing that he was an analogy for God, changed my view of the story a bit and left me a bit disappointed.
It's been a while since I've picked up a Narnia book and I forgot how much I love them. I started reading them in chronological order, but then realized it was a mistake, so now I'm reading them in publication order. I love Peter, Edmund, Susan and Lucy, and I'd follow them anywhere. The characters are so life-like! This series is just an enjoyable adventure all around.
