https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/776384.One_Corpse_Too_Many
With that one I was shocked that I could love a book of a mystery series.
I love these books because you feel that you are in that village and you are there at the beginning of the 12th Century.
So has it been in every one of the books I have read by Peters.
Morality, good behavior, kindness, compassion and understanding are qualities we all recognize and aspire to.One word about why I loved this particular book so much.
In fact there are two love stories; both were marvelously depicted.
One must have an English accent when reading this book.
Whether the constant movement kept Edith Pargeter’s soft adverbs in check, or she improved; I was relieved.
Without a ten-star system to reflect shades of preference, my review explains why this book was exponentially better.
Edith created a sparkling note to set her books apart.
Knowing his backgrounds, the brothers call upon him for miscellaneous assistance all the time.A fight between queen and king siblings erupts in their town and Brother Cadfael discovers a murder.
Some are for the queen hiding in France but both stances are respected discreetly.
The daughter of a high-ranking man for the queen hides until she can join her family.
2.5*A real disappointment, especially since I enjoyed the first Brother Cadfael   book so much. & such an intriguing premise! A corpse mixed in with the victims of a massacre -awesome idea!This was a muddled mess and I'm not interested enough to go back to try to figure out where I becameconfused. Having (view spoiler)[ two romantic couples (hide spoiler)] didn't help. This is exactly how I felt reading other books in this series many years ago.Reading more of this series on hold for now.["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>
It's so refreshing to read a mystery series with no gore or bad language that is mixed with a cast of characters I'd like to know in real life.
This book gives a black-and-white movie feeling, for which I'm very grateful.
I've enjoyed meeting every character in this series so far.
This one shines in all categories: plot, characters, setting, and good writing.
Both have good writing featuring warm, wise characters, and a setting with which you may be unfamiliar.
I'm looking forward to the third book in this series!
I never thought I'd say that about any book written in the medieval time period.
The trouble with me, he thought unhappily, is that I have been about the world long enough to know that God's plans for us, however infallibly good, may not take the form we expect and demand.Brother Cadfael, that former military man in a monk’s robe, knows his onions….and his murder victims and fugitives!
Dragged away from his garden and his herbal potions, the good Brother must search for justice, but not interfere in politics.I so enjoy the time period and setting of this particular series!
One Corpse Too Many is the second Brother Cadful book I’ve read. The Brother Cadful series has a lot going for it: a unique “investigator”, the medieval time setting, a close attention to period detail. The minuses include: cardboard characters, stale dialogue, and a somewhat stilted writing style. That said, I’d recommend the book for mystery/historical fiction lovers, who want something different.
3.5 stars. I'm still not 100% sold on this series. I'll have to read another. :)
1138 England. King Stephen is in conflict with Empress Maude for the throne. During the siege of Shrewsbury, executions are ordered and Father Cadfael finds one body too many in with the dead....murder!I like the medieval setting and the descriptions of the customs, lifestyles and places. Father Cadfael is a wonderful character. Solving mysteries using only clues and logic without the help of fingerprints or forensics is interesting. I enjoy this series so far and plan on continuing in future.
A good old fashioned murder mystery. A marked improvement on Cadfael #1 in my opinion, but the ingredients were the same - good plot, several suspects and of course a love brewing in the background.
Brother Cadfael is such a smart, interesting, capable, and overall cool character!
He is exactly what I look for in a mystery protagonist.
And, as in book one, I loved the cast of characters surrounding Brother Cadfael as well.
I look forward to reading book three, Monk's Hood, sometime in the near future!One thing that did bug me a little is that the cover picture of the edition I read doesn't match the details in the story.
But overall that is a minor thing and doesn't keep me from wanting to read more in the series.
First Sentence: Brother Cadfael was working in the small kitchen garden by the abbot’s fishponds when the boy was first brought to him.
A young man, who is not, has been brought to the abbey and placed in Cadfael’s care.
Brother Cadfael, having been a soldier in the first crusade and seeing much worse, offers to care for and bury the dead.
Peters creates a strong sense of time and place.
I also like that her women are strong, smart characters.
Mys-Brother Cadfael-England-1138) – VGPeters, Ellis (aka Edith Pargeter) - 2nd in seriesThe Mysterious Press, 1979, US Paperback, ISBN: 0446400513
I've read this before but have no memory of the plot, so I thought I'd read it again.Later: This is, in a way, a medieval "spy vs. spy" story, and to my mind the best in the Brother Cadfael series.I think I'd start a reader new to the Cadfael series here, actually.
Suggest you read "A Morbid Taste for Bones" or "A Rare Benedictine" first, but you'll not be disappointed if you start here.History, in the personage of King Stephen of England comes crashing into twelfth century Shrewsbury and Brother Cadfael's life will never be the same.
The Cadfael mysteries are historical fiction at its best.“In all my life and all my fighting I’ve fought for only one king.”One Corpse introduces us to the historical setting and culture more than A Mordid Taste for Bones.
It also introduces Hugh Berengar and other characters who will add depth and complications to Brother Cadfael’s retirement from the world and its troubles.

This second Brother Cadfael story is set against the backdrop of the siege of Shrewsbury Castle in 1138 during a nineteen-year conflict between two royal cousins, Stephen and Maud, for the throne of England.
Cadfael tries to do the right thing amid the conflicting loyalties of the time--and find out who used the executions ordered by the King as cover for their crime.
Ellis Peters actually lived in Shrewsbury, England, where Cadfael's monastery of St. Peter and Paul can still be visited.
The Cadfael series has two strong positives and one serious negative.
I also enjoy Peters's plot lines, which are intricately developed.
She would rather just posit character elements (writing something along the line of "and just then the two recognized they were in love", or "Cadfael summed him up as too good a person to be involved in the crime") in an effort to get to the story she wants to tell rather than developing the characters to get the story there.
As a result she has a tendency to come across as artificial and flippant...at least in the first two installments of this series.
Wonderful series: and full of lots of interesting tidbits of information for anyone (like me) entranced by medieviality (I know that's not a word-well, it is now,I guess).
I read the series with a close friend and we had a great time with it.
Reading alone/together is a great way for busy adults to spend time together!
I'll admit she enjoyed the prose more than I did; I had a little trouble with flow (or lack thereof) but I adored Brother Cadfael, the monks, the garden, and the murders.
Strongly recommend for mystery, medieval, and/or monk (small not capital m) lovers.
Excellent story, great narration. It doesn't get much better than this. Cadfael meets Beringar; Beringar meets Aline; Shrewsbury survives siege and would-be King Stephen.I always think this is the better first-read of the Cadfael books, more so than *A Morbid Taste for Bones*.
Despite the unusual setting of this series (a 12th century monastery in rural England), the pacing, suspense and character building are as good as any modern mystery. Peters is also excellent at creating strong, intelligent women who manage not to feel out of place in the period. Danger, intrigue and young love are all a part of the formula that make for a winning story.
I wasn’t impressed by the first book of the successful series by Ellis Peters, but in this second book, brother Cadfael grew on me. This time I listened to the audio version narrated by Stephen Thorne, who I credit from my better experience. The ending was too sweet for my taste but I’ll certainly look for the next (audio)book.
A girl, disguised as a boy, turns up at the monastery, seeking refuge. The king had a number of persons executed. One additional body is found. Cadfael gains the king's permission to seek the murderer. Meanwhile the king and his men are seeking the girl. This was a re-read for me, and I remembered enough of the story to make me realize I'd read it before, but the intervening time made details seemingly new at times.
Perhaps I was expecting this book to be as undemanding to read as many mystery novels are--even by great authors like Agatha Christie and Elizabeth Peters.
I am so glad I was advised to begin at the beginning of this series (although the library didn't have book one), since I was prepared to pick up book 20, which had the highest rating.
Looking forward to more from Ellis Peters, here are two favorite quotes from this book:"It takes half a lifetime to reach the spot where eternity is always visible, and the crude injustice of the hour shrivels out of sight.""God disposes all.
Second book in the series, and yet another one that I remembered fairly well from the TV episode based on it.
It seemed to throw us too much into the middle of things, without enough time actually making you care about any of the characters or the context.Fortunately, the book takes care of that, with all the missing detail to fill out the story.It surprises me a bit to realize just how oddly romantic these first two books have been.
Still a four star read for me, even after all these years!
I loved Cadfael when I first read this series back in the 1980s, and saw Derek Jacobi bring the Benedictine to life for the BBC(?), and he’s still wonderful!In this second entry in the series, the civil war between King Stephen and Empress Maud has come to Shrewsbury.
Kind-hearted Abbott Heribert feels compelled to bury the dead and Cadfael agrees to take on this sad task, but as a former soldier he recognizes the signs of a murdered corpse hidden among the dead and notifies the king.
Back in the days of the civil war between King Stephen and Queen Maud both of England was a monk by the name of Brother Cadfael. One day King Stephen conquered the town of Shrewsbury and hung 94 of his opponents. Cadfael was given the gruesome job of burying the bodies. While doing his duties he discovered that there was an extra body. This man had been strangled and thrown in with the others. Cadfael decides to investigate this murder. In the meantime a girl arrives at the monastery disguised as a boy and Cadfael is determined to protect her.
Μετά την μάχη στο Σρούσμπερι μια αρχοντοπούλα δεν προλαβαίνει να φυγαδευτεί και για να γλυτώσει, απο Γοδίθη μεταλλάσεται σε Γοδερίκος και εισβάλλει στο μοναστήρι των Βεννεδικτίνων της περιοχής.
Εκεί την κάνουν βοηθό του μοναχού πρώην σταυροφόρου Καντφέλ που φυσικά την καταλαβαίνει αμέσως και προσπαθεί να την βοηθήσει κρύβοντάς την.
Στον αδελφό Κάντφελ επωμίζεται και το καθήκον να θάψει τους νεκρούς που εκτελέστηκαν μετά την μάχη.
Η μονομαχία Ούγου και Κουρσέλ στο τέλος ήταν μια ενδιαφέρουσα αναπνοή στο κείμενο.
Και ζήσαν αυτοί καλά και εμείς καλύτερα!Φυσικά επειδή μου αρέσει ο χαρακτήρας του Καντφέλ θα διαβάσω και τα υπόλοιπα της σειράς!
Brother Cadfael has acquired an unexpected apprentice in this entertaining crime story set in 1138 at the height of Stephen's battle against Matilda for the throne of England.
But there is one more body than he was told and he realises that this extra body has been murdered rather than being a judicial killing.I am getting to like Cadfael as a character - he is calm and rational whatever the circumstances and he is intelligent and observant.
If you want to read one of the original historical crime series then Brother Cadfael is a must.
After Shrewsbury Castle fell in 1138 during the civil war in England between King Stephen and Empress Maud, the ninety-four defenders of the Castle who were loyal to Maud were sentenced to be hanged as traitors to the crown. Brother Cadfael agreed to bury the ninety-four executed men but quickly discovered that were ninety-five bodies awaiting burial and the extra corpse was strangled not hanged. Horrified, Brother Cadfael vowed to identify the murder victim and unmask the killer. An intriguing puzzle and an excellent read.
Arnulf de Hesdin can be said to have invited his own death--but if the killers of the ordinary soldiers are innocent because they are only obeying orders, what justification is there for killing them in the FIRST place?This book introduces Hugh Beringar, who will be very important in the later books.
But one thing I DO like (and I think Peters did, too, though she had her characters grumble at it sometimes) is that there's still some darkness in these times.
In our times you'll meet nobody in a dark alley: there aren't any.But in these books, people are allowed to develop their night eyes.
