https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/664451.Great_Books_of_the_Western_World
The reiteration of slogans, the distortion of the news, the great storm of propaganda that beats upon the citizen twenty-four hours a day all his life long mean either that democracy must fall a prey to the loudest and most persistent propagandists or that the people must save themselves by strengthening their minds so that they can appraise the issues for themselves....The idea that liberal education is the education that everybody ought to have, and that the best way to a a liberal education in the West is through the greatest works the West has produced, is still, in our view, the best educational idea there is.
The list has provided me with untold hours of great reading and will, I’m sure, continue to do so for many years to come.This is what led me to the Great Books of the Western World.
They “fit” into a certain time, like Shakespeare fit into the later Romantic era or Moby Dick fit into the 1920s and thus gained recognition seventy years after its initial publication (and I bet many who trudge through the thick volume today wish it hadn’t).Why then read the Great Books?Having said this, I do think that there is a lot of value to reading the Great Books.
Gobbled it up as a little kid in the 70's.
Seriously, if you're a hermit, these will pass the time pretty well.
I am nearing the end of Year One of a seven-year plan to read through this series. You can see my progress and read weekly comments at http://throughthegreatbooks.wordpress...
Picked up this entire set in excellent condition at a library sponsored used book sale for $60.00. hands down one of my best finds.
This book set is a little hard to find, but if you do, it may be one of the best book investments you ever find. This 54-vol. set contains excerpts from all of the great classics according to the editors. It has selections from literature, history, science, psychology, philosophy, economics and theology. The selections are called the essence of a liberal education.
Read this works in cycles based on the Great Ideas. Best read with a friend you can discuss these books with... Highly recommended. Used sets are an intellectual investment for a lifetime.
I ain't never fuckin reading this.
I probably won't finish this set in my life...but it's really about the journey!
Okay, to be honest, I have NOT read all 60 volumes - yet! This, however is the best investment in literature I have ever made. A joy to sip or gulp from the pages of this set!
The aim of liberal education is human excellence and these books are indispensable toward attaining it (p.
15), using the results of experimental methods and a proper psychology of learning, his followers tended to turn it into vocational training for a trade.The editor challenges the realists who insist that it’s just not feasible to give a liberal education to all the masses.
The emphasis on adult education also helps make up for the lack of experience and perspective present in youth.Moving toward the future, a study of the great books can lead to a global community of free minds.
Before you get yourself in a bunch, I have to say that I didn't read this entire series.I read the first book in the series entitled "The Great Conversation" by Mortimer J. Adler, Clifton Fadiman, and Philip W. Goetz..The Great Conversation is more or less a treatise on the purpose and value of a Classical Liberal education.Not to be confused with the term "Liberal" used in modern day politics.You may not be able to purchase this book without purchasing all of or at least a large portion of the set.
I have always wanted this collection, but over the years I purchased other books instead. When our church moved into our current digs, this entire collection was hidden away in a back room and covered in dust on long-forgotten bookshelves. They are an incredible resource! I am currently reading Augustine's 'City of God' as it is germane to a sermon I am writing for this Sunday from the book of Zechariah. You have to love a great book find like this! I do! I'm looking forward to many years of reading enjoyment.
I have been reading these books since I got them back in the early 60s'.I still have a long way to go. Between being in the army and working and being a single parent I have little time. But, now that I'm retired I intend to read more of this series of books.I'm not really done and it will take sometime to finish,
I have started the Great Ideas Program and am on month three of my ten year reading program.
Need vols 55 thu 60 =( Christmas List =)
The two-volume Great Ideas/Syntopicon is an unprecedented attempt to analyse all of philosophy.
this was only one volume - #4, the Greek Plays -- and I did not finish. The translations were not especially clear or compelling and there was a real dearth of notes or footnotes.So, I will explore other editions for this stuff -- Penguin and Bantam have a classics line of paperbacks, and there are also "modern translations" of many of the plays (Ellen McLaughlin's "The Greek Plays" is terrific so far, but I'm only just starting that book).
This volume contained a selection of Milton's minor poems, Paradise Lost - a poem about Adam and Eve- ,Samson Agonistes - a poem about Samson's last day as a prisoner of the Philistines-, and Areopagitica - an essay pleading for an end to the censorship of books.
I was particularly bothered by "the philosophies of men" portrayed in his version of the story.
Somehow this one did not bother me as much as the fiction of Paradise Lost.
I wonder if Milton's plea for openness in the printing of books was well received, or if it was even read in its entirity by his chosen audience.
This is an amazing set of books.
For someone who has a wide interest in knowledge, this is a great resource.
Not many people have read every book in this set as most people have areas of interest that they focus on, and I have to admit that I have not read everything, but I do go to often enough.
While you could argue that there may be something or someone missing, it is hard to argue that everything included isn't important to the western canon of knowledge.
There is a definite Classical / western European / United States focus, which is the only drawback.
I am currently reading the Mortimer J. Adler and Charles Van Doren's book on How to Read a Book. Adler, contributing editor to this set, presents the Syntopicon which is his contribution to this monumental collection. Should I purchase this expensive set?? Decided...no! It was $400.00 used and I read that the margins are to small to practice the rules on how to read a book. I would rather purchase the books I want to read individually. They have a list of recommended books in their "How to Read a Book.
This was for volume one only: The Great Conversation - The substance of a Liberal Education I could not find an individual volume listing and the printed ISBN brought up a separate work.Volume one makes a convincing argument for self-education. The total collection comprises the 443 works of 73 authors.Two of the volumes contain 102 chapters containing "The Great Ideas".Appendix 2 gives a suggested reading list to span a 10 year period.Of the Great Books, I have chosen to read and then list them as their separate publications.
I am doing the ten year reading plan. Check out my blog at http://jason-greatbooks.blogspot.com/ to see how it is going.
A good interpretation of the St. John's College reading list.
I have a mint condition set w/bookcase from 1952. It's a great read. It's taken many years to read but well worth it. If anyone is interested in buying let me know. BrianBurnes1@gmail.com
Mortimer J. Adler did a terriffic service compiling the classic works of westers literature, science, and philosophy for all to read, in their origional form, not at all dumbing them down.
This was only the first volume, The Great Conversation.
Actually, I only own Vol. 5: Aeschylus/Sophocles/Euripides/Aristophanes, and out of that, I'm just reading a couple of Euripides' plays right now.
I bought a used set in the late 90s. Spent 7 years reading the 10 year plan based on the Great Ideas program. I highly recommend the Great Ideas program for the Great Books set as it changed my life.
