https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/763774.Warrior_s_Woman
I was chatting to some fellow long-time romance readers last night and this book came up and we all made that "OMGitwassoawesome" noise.
If you haven't read it, you must!
It's sf romance written back when there was hardly any sf romance.
But if you read it, go into it with it knowing you're going to get a barbarian alien hero who drags the heroine off to his lair.
It's fun, has a great world, and the romance gets me every time.
I saw Meljean Brook's review in which she said it's a guilty pleasure book but that she has no guilt reading it.
Those of us who choose to read these books know that we are going to get a mostly implausible romance, which usually starts with insta-lust/love, between an alpha male, possibly a brute, with a woman, most likely a virgin or a courtesan, who go trough ridiculous, unrealistic and at times absurd hurdles in order to rip each-others clothes off and get to sexy times, after which something tragic and once more unlikely trifle will separate them, they will both be total jerks, and somehow, against all logic and human comprehension, they will get back together and live happily ever after!!!
I found it hard to believe she would be happy being the 'little woman' for Old School Macho Guy Challen.
Here is a woman that was born far into the future, used to living in a progressive society, and she falls for a man from a culture where women are subordinates in every way.
Sure he was a big, hot, buff stud-muffin.
But his attitudes (I know it was due to his culture) were way psycho when it came to women.
I think?But I feel like it suffered from not knowing quite what it wanted to be.It started off as a call to arms, with Tedra fighting to free the females of her planet from slavery.
I liked seeing him floundering with the guilt of punishing Tedra too severely in the middle there.
Tedra was a perfect stubborn match for Challen.
I will probably read the sequels at some stage, but alien lurve week is coming to a close and I think I'll cool it for a bit on this genre.
Watch your words, everyone!3 i-give-you-my-life StarsThanks for the alien lurve week buddy read my lovelyAbtastic Ab Loving Geishas
In a way, I really liked it, but then there was a lot of in-between stuff that was kind of boring.
Oh, let me just say that some people will not like this.
But what I liked about it is that the female MC, Tedra, gets even a lot and there is a decent balance between Challen being an uber-alpha jerkface and Tedra challenging him and fighting his antiquated ways.
I know Challen was an ass, but somehow I still liked him.
However, I think this was a little too long to keep my interest and I started skimming toward the end.
I just saw this in my feed, and marked it five stars because it is pretty much my ultimate guilty-pleasure book.
Except, with no guilt, because I kind of adore everything about it, from the cheesy cover to the silly fact that Tedra refers to Challen's name being apt because it's two letters short of "challenge," even though they don't speak English.I heart every bit of it, and have since I first read it about twenty years ago.
I read it so many times that I incorporated "farden" into my vocabulary (until my dad yelled at me, because an f-word is a frakking f-word, dammit.)It's also one of the first romances I read with a kick-ass heroine.
I have to say I thoroughly enjoyed this barbarian prose in all its glory!
Tedra was a super fun, smart-mouthed, take-no-shit female and Challen was the ultimate "I am a barbarian hear me roar" do what I say kinda warrior!
But I think my favorite character was Martha, Tedra's all knowing computer best friend who would stop at nothing to get Tedra laid!
I thought the author was creative in exploring the vast differences between Tedra and Challen's planets, from artificial wombs, food, landscape, and energy.
The overall tone was light and fun with just enough emotional sentiment between characters to keep you connected.
Not so much.Maybe it’s the fact that it is an attempt by a romance author to write in a science fiction setting, and it fails miserably, mainly because the story is practically non-existent and what little story there is is subsumed by endless sex scenes.It’s quite befuddling to me that I even wrote that sentence.
I’m the last person to be annoyed by a proliferation of sex scenes.
In her attempt to work out some kind of deal with them, she is taken captive by a warrior named Challen.
I would like to introduce you all to my very first romance novel...imagine if you will, a naive 10 year old girl...Heading into a new section at the library, likely on a dare, but no bother I would hand this novel (a la over the top cover) to my kind librarian and check this puppy out.
THEN imagine that I re-checked this out about 5 times...This my friends, started my romance addiction and I haven't looked back since.RE-reading this now, at a slightly older and much less naive age, this was funny and lighthearted.
Commence rolling those eyes!Gonna get me some of that misogynistic barbarian man!Read for the URR 2017 challenge Bodice Ripper category - which I will probably leave out next year!
(I totes own it)Setting / Time / Genre: Future, off planet, somewhere out there....
Series: Apparently.
Women on said planet are both revered and marginalized in only the way a bodice ripper can make it so.
Get your slavey looking clothes on, lady, and take it like you want it because apparently, you do.
Why it did or didn't work for me: It's a BR written in an age where the rape culture was at its finest, apparently.
Me costó engancharme, y no termine de empatizar con los protagonistas sobre todo con ella. Hubo momentos que si me gustaron pero nada memorable.
Thia is the precursor to alien erotic romance :))
Then again, my favorite movie of all time is Seven Brides for Seven Brothers and I feel the same way about it, so I’ll describe it the same way: it’s like loving a big, dumb jock.All right, here’s the plotline: Tedra De Arr is a virgin warrior from a technically advanced planet.
The first one she encounters is Challen Ly-San-Ter who is quite incensed to find a woman who is wearing pants, doesn’t give him the deference women are supposed to, and not only that, she offers to challenge him.
no.
I saw this listed on some list of romances, and remembered that I read this back when I was a teenager, I think.
This was one of the stupidest romances I've read.
(He punishes her for getting in danger by arousing her and not letting her come.) Then add in a stupid artificial intelligence who keeps telling the woman that this is what she needs -- and can't even use proper terminology.
The AI keeps referring to "probables" when it really means "probability." If the author can't even be bothered to look up to see if there's a real word instead of one she made up, why should I bother reading it?
Half the time i did not understand what was going on. I was thrust into a new world . When it comes to space travels and intergalactic missions, i don't really care for it so i struggle to say i enjoyed it. Johanna Lindsey's writing is excellent as usual but this book was not for me. Still good enough to wile away time.
3  stars. Enjoyable, pleasant story about a space traveling futuristic woman falling in love with a sword wielding barbarian.STORY BRIEF:Tedra is a top level government security police person on the planet Kystran. People have sex sharing for pleasure not to procreate. The government creates humans by taking cells from the most desirable subjects, grows them in test tubes, and then raises the children in group centers and schools. There are no parents, families, etc. Machines create all food. Th
Enjoyable, pleasant story about a space traveling futuristic woman falling in love with a sword wielding barbarian.STORY BRIEF:Tedra is a top level government security police person on the planet Kystran.
Martha wants to change that because she knows it would be good for Tedra.Bad guy Crad hires mercenaries from the planet Sha-Ka’ar who help him take over the government.
One of the payments to the Sha-Ka’ari warriors is Kystran women being sent to the Sha-Ka’an planet as slaves.
Martha locates the planet Sha-Ka’an which has barbarian style warriors similar to the Sha-Ka’ar.
This book was awful, and it made my feminist self feel awful for her being a total dumbass and him being a giant misogynist. It huuuurt. Half star?
Just as enjoyable this time around. Fantasy romance that isn't dark, just a fun sexy story with good world building and a bit of humor.
Cuando se produce el golpe de estado, resulta que el nuevo mandamás ha recibido la ayuda de unas tribus bárbaras de hombres grandontes y fuertotes cuyo pago consiste en llevarse a todas las mujeres del planeta (incluída Tedra a pesar de su rango), y nuestra heroína se cruzará con algunos de estos tipos mientras intenta escapar.
Y aquí estamos, una novela en la que constantemente nos están recordando las costumbres machistas de Challen y cómo Tedra intenta darle la vuelta a todo lo que él le propone.
Lost me at: 65%I don't know if the author wanted to be ironical.
Why writing about a warrior woman, a woman in the secret service, good enough to defend presidents and the like and then, a few chapters later, transform her in to a useless, weak, dumb "prisoner".
She is supposed to be expert in them, but alas, she can't defeat anyone else.
And I hated the Martha.
Is she supposed to be witty or fun?
It was absolutely awful the way she is supposed to know the heroine better than herself.
And Martha is the epitome of a woman enforcing another to conform.Yes, the heroine has sarcasm (which I like) honed to a blade.
BUY THE BOOK - Amazon affiliate linkThe constant use of the word "woman" and "kiddo" is extremely irritating, demeaning, degrading and humiliating.
There are moments where Tedra is strong and fearless but most of the time she seemed just fine with her forced submission.
Challen is oppressive, obnoxious and chauvinist.
Plus all Challen and Tedra did was fight and fuck.
There was a couple small and interesting moments in the book which kept me reading.
The book has a fantastic premise and great potential, but in my opinion it wasn't executed that great.
BUY THE BOOK
In my memory Tedra had fun at first, but then there is the Spanking, and then she’s really sad for the second half of the book because Challen is sexist, his planet is sexist, and she feels pretty interchangeable and marginalised as a sexy sort-of slave girl.
I’ve taken to assuming that this conversation is in a footnote hidden somewhere in the book and that only readers who want it will find it, and readers who are perfectly happy to see it as a fantasy without the need for the serious talk can just get on with enjoying it.There’s some interesting thinking from Tedra going into the Spank, about what it’s going to do to her relationship with Challen.
Johanna Lindsey is at her best in this rollicking, rough-and-tumble romance with a sci-fi twist.Picture a fiercely independent uber-feminist, forced to flee her home, taking refuge in an apparently-friendly port -- only to discover that her "safe haven" is a place where men rule and women obey, and where she is quickly captured by the first man she has ever encountered who cannot be overpowered by her.Tedra has never met the man she cannot beat in a fair fight...
Some readers may be disturbed by the premise, which is accepted by all characters within the novel (including Tedra herself!), that men have the right and responsibility to discipline "their" women.
This took WAY too much time to read!
It felt like the book went on for forever.
I liked the characters of Tedra and Challen well enough.
Challen was super arrogant and domineering, but he had a sweet and caring side that I liked.
Tedra was thankfully a strong woman with a mind of her own, because if she wasn't, the romance between her and Challen wouldn't have worked.
I hated the culture that Challen's people had, it just went against my feminist values.
I'm glad I finished this novel, but I don't recommend this as one to read if you're starting with Johanna Lindsey like me.
It's been a really long time since I read a true romance.
The "I'm not kidding around, it's basically porn" kind of romance.
I don't mean that in a graphic way but, in the way all the characters are written like they have some kind of hormone imbalance.
Ridiculously jealous, full of insecurities that seem to range from one extreme to the other, and all of them drama junkies and crazy nympho-maniacs.
Plus endless moral compromises and personal violations that in reality would NOT leave you feeling tingly, they would leave you feeling violated and humiliated.
One of the first romance novels I ever read.
It was pretty fun, but also pretty third-rate.
It had the trashy feel of one of those late-night, made-for-tv sci-fi movies you see (or used to see) on HBO and USA.
Those movies are fun sometimes though, and this was too.
Basically you've got your strong, over-achiever heroine who's dissatisfied with the men of her race because she wants someone capable of dominating her.
After a political coup leaves her in danger with nowhere to go, she ends up seeking out the homeworld of the invaders, where of course she finds the man of her dreams.
My mother gave me this book when I was really down one day, and it brought a much needed smile to my face. This book will have you laughing out loud. The main character is a head strong woman who encounters a man she can not wrap her head around. Very entertaining.
I know, I know, I know. But look at that cover and tell me you aren't tempted by its Old-Skool over the topness.So yeah, I'm going to get myself a second hand copy and read this :)
Barbarian warriors from another planet... Yes please! This was a really fun, fluffy, sci-fi romance. I'll definitely read more in the series.
