https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/245705.Peter_the_First
Пётр Первый = Peter the Great = Petr pervy, Aleksey Nikolayevich Tolstoyعنوانها: پطر کبیر؛ پتر کبیر؛ پطر اول؛ پتر اول؛ تاریخ نخستین خوانش: ماه مارس سال 1983 میلادیعنوان: پطر اول : جلد اول؛ نویسنده: الکسی نیکولایویچ تولستوی؛ مترجم: محمد هرمزان (پور هرمزان)؛ مسکو، پروگرس، 1351در سه جلد؛ پاپ دوم 1356؛ موضوع: سرگذشتنامه پطر کبیر تزار روسیه از 1672 تا 1725 م قرن 20 معنوان: پطر کبیر؛ نویسنده: الکسی نیکولایویچ تولستوی؛ مترجم: ابراهیم مرادی؛ روحی ارباب؛ تهران، بنگاه ترجمه و نشر کتاب، 1351، در 510 ص؛ چاپ
Пётр Первый =‭ Peter the Great =‭ Petr pervy, Aleksey Nikolayevich Tolstoyعنوانها: پطر کبیر؛ پتر کبیر؛ پطر اول؛ پتر اول؛ تاریخ نخستین خوانش: ماه مارس سال 1983 میلادیعنوان: پطر اول : جلد اول؛ نویسنده: الکسی نیکولایویچ تولستوی؛ مترجم: محمد هرمزان (پور هرمزان)؛ مسکو، پروگرس، 1351در سه جلد؛ پاپ دوم 1356؛ موضوع: سرگذشتنامه پطر کبیر تزار روسیه از 1672 تا 1725 م قرن 20 معنوان: پطر کبیر؛ نویسنده: الکسی نیکولایویچ تولستوی؛ مترجم: ابراهیم مرادی؛ روحی ارباب؛ تهران، بنگاه ترجمه و نشر کتاب، 1351، در 510 ص؛ چاپ دیگر: با عنوان پتر کبیر، انتشارات علمی فرهنگی، 1379؛ در 422 ص، شابک: 9644452445؛ موضوع: سرگذشتنامه پطر کبیر تزار روسیه از 1672 تا 1725 م قرن 20 معنوان: پتر اول؛ نویسنده: الکسی نیکولایویچ تولستوی؛ مترجم: احمد نوری زاده؛ تهران، نگاه، 1369، در 3 جلد؛ چاپ دوم پاییز 1386؛ شابک: 9789643623708؛ موضوع: سرگذشتنامه پطر کبیر تزار روسیه از 1672 تا 1725 م قرن 20 مپتر اول؛ زندگی شخصی و سیاسی تزار بزرگ روس پطر کبیر است.
He comes of age with a driven and desperate need to bring Russia to the attention of Europe and into the modern age despite the superstitions of an old faith and the recalcitrance of his nation's ancient, and lazy, aristocracy.He brutalizes his people into new modalities, raising peasants and the poor who share his drive and understanding, to build a standing army and Russia's first navy fleet against the disciplined soldier-king of Sweden.
Here we become voyeurs in Peter's first attempt at love, and finally his pending marriage to a former slave who will become his Czarina.But its Tolstoy's vision of those tumultuous times and his impeccable sense of humor, contrasting the best and the worst of Peter's achievements, that bring the mid-1700s to brilliant life.
С одной стороны не верится, что роман закончен в лохматом году, а не в позапрошлую среду, с другой – страшно, что написан он так давно о событиях куда более давних, а у нас всё по-прежнему и актуально до жути (я уж не говорю о нелепом совпадении присоединения Крыма в реальном времени и его взятии на страницах романа).
Графиня придвинулась к нему и – ловко, как кошка лапой, – влепила ему пощечину…» «С королями плохого не случается…» Толстой писал так просто, живо, легко и иронично, что каким бы ни был объём произведения, всё мало.
If you want to know some information of Russian history - read it. If you want to love Russia - read it. And if you want to understand Russia - read it. It doesn't matter what do you want - just read it.Peter I was the brightes persom of his age. He tried to change people's minds, to rebild culture and traditions. He wanted to change the world. And he did it!
One the best books I ever read.
Especially the last chapter, with Peter coming back from his trip of 1,5 years to Germany and Holland to learn crafts, discovering about the mutiny that had been going on in his army and the blood shedding that follows on the streets, bodies knotted up against walls and making his officials chop off the heads of the betrayers themselves, has left such a grim, dark and moody feel of which I'm not sure will be topped by another book soon.
I'll throw in some more books in-between before I start #2 and #3 since the writing (translation) is difficult to stay engaged through.
یادش به خیر! سفر چند سال پیش پترزبورگ و دیدن پترهوف! خانه کوچک فنلاندی ستوان توپخانه پتر، دندانساز ، خراط و شاه دوست داشتنی.فواره درختی معروفش را دیدیم و از زیرش رد شدیم و کلی ختدیدیم.بعد خانم راهنمای مهربان من را کناری کشید و از پشت پنجره چیزی نشانم داد و گفت بهمن ببین این هم جام تنبیه پتر. گفتن راست است که شب ها توی گنجه می خوابیده؟ گفت گنجه که نه! ولی اتاق خوابش خیلی کوچک است.می دا نی که چه کودکی سختی داشته
نه این که کتاب بدی باشه، من نتونستم ارتباط برقرار کنم. حوصله این همه قصه و آب و تاب درباره آدمهای تاریخی رو نداشتم. شاید قبلا داشتم و حالا ندارم.
نه این که کتاب بدی باشه، من نتونستم ارتباط برقرار کنم. حوصله این همه قصه و آب و تاب درباره آدم‌های تاریخی رو نداشتم. شاید قبلا داشتم و حالا ندارم.
Сильная книга. Было жаль встретиться с неожиданным концом.
Wat een leesplezier geeft dit historische epos van die ándere Tolstoj. In compacte zinnen wordt een levensecht beeld van de ambitieuze en impulsieve jonge czaar gegeven. Een jonge hond die nog veel moet leren, maar ook een die veel wil leren. Op p 405 komt hij aan in Zaandam en dat is als Zaandammer natuurlijk extra leuk om te lezen. En nu gauw naar deel II en III.
I have longed to read this book for years and finally I've got this chance to read it. It is the best book I've ever read this year. Indeed it's a pity that it's unfinished, but you know the rest is history( if you're interested in Russian History or biased in Romanov Dynasty, like me) .
gibimsi
Это прекрасно. Лучший исторический роман. Единственный его минус в том, что он не окончен. Историю делали, делают и будут делать люди.
This book is awesome - and unlike "the other" Tolstoi, not much attention was given this writer's book's in our lit study curriculum.
Personal detail - I remember being seriously behind on the lit review for my high school graduation exams, and then college essay exam studies because of being totally absorbed by this book.
My college essay exam was based on Tolstoy's book, which happened to be the most obscure subject matter of the 4 choices offered, and I wrote on for 6 hours straight with barely a bathroom or snack break - only at 17!
Excellent historical novel, on par with Young Henry of Navarre and Henry, King of France, which to m
Tolstoy's epic covers Peter's early life and rise to power prior to the Battle of Narva,and is rife with drama and history. While Tolstoy leaves out some details of Peter's life, he makes up for it with a rich cast of characters, places, and historical events that shaped modern Russia. Not a well known book in the West, but an excellent example of Russian historical fiction from the Russian perspective.
This is an absolutely fabulous historical novel (unfinished alas) by a member of both the Tolstoy and Turgenev families. He shows throughout the novel flashes of the same brilliance of his more famous relatives.The last third of Peter the Great's life is not covered in this book which is a tremendous pity.
I saw two Russian films called Young Peter the Great and The Great Beginning about the life of Peter the Great, Russia's Czar who wanted to Westernize Russia and turn it away from being "The Third Rome" or a continuation of Bzyantium. This novel is based on those two films and is basically about Peter the Great's life as a young man.
nice book about Peter the First times. Very interesting and useful from historic point of view. But I only became really engaged in the plot at the end of the book.
I read this book years ago and never forgot it. One of the best books I ever read. Would love to read it again.
Интересная книга. Рекомендую.
By special warrant of appointment from comrade Stalin or so it is said.
