https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6289920-covet
3 Slow ride Stars  Spoilers Okay so I want to start this review by saying that I love J.R. Ward and I think she is a super talented author.
That being said this book wasn't like the Black dagger Brotherhood Series that I adore.
Don't read this series expecting it to be like BDB at all.
Now if I am going to be honest I will say that the reason I am reading this series is because there are rumors that the villain Devina might be crossing over to BDB and I wanted to know about her so I wouldn't be
Now if I am going to be honest I will say that the reason I am reading this series is because there are rumors that the villain Devina might be crossing over to BDB and I wanted to know about her so I wouldn't be confused.
On top of all that info there was development of the hero Vin, the heroine Marie Therese, the demon Devina, and the plot.
I felt like the info dump slowed the book down and at times I got bored.
By the middle of the book I found myself invested in Jim, Vin, and Marie Therese.
In fact, the love scenes in this were so beautifully written and scorch the pages hot that I couldn’t help but wish that she would make a foray into the erotic romance genre at some point.
But what he can’t buy is love or happiness, and then he meets a woman who makes him question the true value of all those supposedly important, material things and his life and future.
Every scene with Vin and Marie-Terese together was pure, enchanting, intoxicating magic...I simply couldn’t get enough of them!There’s a big buildup to an epic showdown ending of good vs.
Minor SpoilersMost who know me know that I am rarely impressed by the premier book in any series.
They seem to have a slower pace due to setting up background stories and introducing characters.
Let me tell you, this book is not your usual premier book.
I have found a new obsession in The Fallen Angels.
What an aaaamazing story!
The Iron Mask, St. Patricks Cathedral, the Commodore, just to name a few.Now, in addition to "needing me some BDB", I also "need me some Fallen Angels."
Personally, I kind of like the hook about a guy recruited by Heaven in the Great Game between Good and Evil.
v. E." Okay, so what did I like about this story?First and foremost, I loved the protagonists: Jim and Vin. They are strong characters, both deeply flawed, but good men at heart.
My hope is that they will have a more prominent part in the forthcoming books.The romance angle: I'm going to get busted for saying this, but I felt like Vin and Marie-Therese had sex too soon.
I think that most fans of JR Ward will like this book.
2.5 starsI must admit that I was completely disappointed with this book.
it was more than the first book syndrome.
Moreover, the romance in the book felt fake and forced.
You never get to know well the characters, which was the most annoying thing with this book; You had pages and pages of information but nothing really important to understand what was going on.Leaving the romance apart, nothing really important happens, yes there is a demon trying to mess with Gretchen and Vin, but she never really does anything to harm them.
From the middle of the book I just wanted it to end.
It’s wonderfully detailed (including Ward’s trademark “branding” of nearly every inanimate object), has the same wonderfully witty dialogue and male bonding happening (much like the BDB books), is laced with some violent and gruesome scenes, has a romance you can root for, but most importantly has some wonderful characters that the reader can fall in love with.
I don’t want to reveal anything about the “evil” that Jim, Vin, and Marie Terese find themselves battling, except to say as long as you haven’t read any spoilers, it will come as a big, creepy surprise who/what the evil is.
Opening Line: "She wants you." Jim Heron lifted his eyes from his Budweiser."A PROMISING START ON THE OTHER SIDE OF CALDWELL N.YI'm sure most people picking up Covet are fans of JR Ward's Black Dagger Brotherhood and my advice to you would be (as hard as it is) to forget about the Brothers (just for a moment) and enjoy this story for what it is.
There are also several secondary characters, some of which have been well fleshed out but others like Jim's two Fallen Angel mentors have unfortunately been left a little vague.
And -as cheesy as that all may sound- this series promises to be great!Covet introduces us to Jim Heron, a carpenter with a secret military background, who gets pinned with the most important job of his life, well...
There are angels and demons, but vampires and shadows aren’t known to Jim. In that sense us readers are ahead of him: we know his surroundings as the story takes place in Caldwell.
He doesn’t know who to help or who to trust.
After all: Jim has seven chances to decide the game.
I really know how to clear things up.Jim is given a mission to save seven souls to determine if all of humanity will get to go to heaven and experience its heavenly wonders - I'm thinking a Chocolate Buffet - which by the way, they had on the cruise we went on over Christmas.
Oh, you mean Southern?I swear, the men down here act like they would have to give up their guns if they spoke more than three words together.Those are the three words.Jim's first mission is to save the soul of a guy named Vin. Vin is about to marry a beautiful model, but then he sees a prostitute and rethinks everything.
Qué gustazo volver a leer a la Ward! Y más descubrir esta saga de ángeles y demonios. La verdad, no sé qué tiene esta mujer, pero sus historias consiguen atraparte desde el momento cero.
I am a huge HUGE fan of the Black Dagger Brotherhood series but this book is vastly different and it doesn't work for me.I am not interested in the romance, I am not interested in the demons versus angels plot, I am not interested in the story line, and I don’t care about the characters.
I am so frustrated because I wanted to like it so much but I don’t.
The Fallen Angel Series is of a different hue than The Black Dagger Brotherhood series and not nearly as good.
Jim Heron has lived a life of sin and killing, suddenly that all changes when he becomes a fallen angel and is appointed a great task of saving seven souls from the seven deadly sins with the earth as we know it in the balance.
Marie-Terese held her own as the female lead, who was strong in a gentle and kind way, she didn’t need to be a ball-buster to get her point across, she did that easy with her heart and kindness.
The main story of angels and demons held you until the very end.
I loved the characters.......Jim Heron  .....chosen for a special ops mission ....
Yes there is an aviation theme going on because HELLO hot sexy Alpha ANGELS ❤️ .....The first mission is to save the souls of two individuals.
Jim's mission is to save them and fight the evil creepy bad guys.
There is love and plenty of swooning sexy times.....there's also camaraderie building that will have you saying " I feel you ".....the cameos and crossover to the BDB will have you tickled pink !
And as always lovely departing visuals : I can't wait for the next book ❤️
Upon more thought, I realized that I don't really want to come back to this series.
I'll stick with BDB and just be happy there.Take 2 : Dec. 2014 - on a quest for BDB crossover tidbits while waiting for The Shadows to come out.Okay, this wasn't bad as I'd been expecting.
BUT...the book was readable and I'm okay with moving on to book 2.
Crossovers can be fun for that reason alone.
I want to say 3 1/2 stars for all the confusion in the first part of the book it took me a little over 100 pages to put everything together between all the characters..
I'm one I dont like to rack my brain to read a book most people are not like me though.
Then I want to say 4 stars just because it did get better..
Make sure you make a little more time for the first half of this book you can't go into this in a hurry because It keeps jumping for one character to the other, but remember it will all come together..
I really liked this book, when I got to the serious business of sitting down and reading it, it had me completely hooked, from the prologue from the demons point of view to Jim being flat on his ass outside the pearly gates with the "Four Lads." This has the WARDen's familiar writing style which seems to have a rhythm and flow all of its own, although I am grateful that she has toned down on all the street slang, I was actually able to read this without once having to reach for an Urban Dictionary!
Once the decision was made, he was given the task of saving seven souls from the seven deadly sins (an obvious set-up for future books).
I don't want to give away the details of that choice, but as Jim soon discovered, the path wasn't clear and Vin wasn't a man who was easily pushed.
Marie-Therese worked as a prostitute at the Iron Mask.
Vin and Marie-Therese meet when he saves her from two guys in the Iron Mask who think they can force her into a "date" with them.
Vin is immediately taken with Marie-Therese.
I loved Jim and Vin. They both have flaws, but they're good guys at the core.
Covet was a good read that kept my attention and was a decent start to the series.
I wouldn't have minded a bit more closure at the end of the story but I was pretty convinced of their love for each other.Jim, Dog and his Harley-lovin' Fallen Angel buddies Eddie and Adrian are apparently going to be a team in the coming books.
So overall - Covet was a good, entertaining read that kept my attention but had a few slight blips - mainly that it wasn't as engrossing and awesome as the BDB and the Wardisms were out of control and a bit ridiculous at times.
The beginning was confusing at times, but as I continued reading, I realized the author's intent must have been just that because it was like putting a puzzle together--one piece at a time.
Once or twice, I felt that I'd missed something, but as I continued on things cleared up nicely.
For those that are familiar with the author's Black Dagger Brotherhood (BDB) series, one of the main characters in Covet--Jim--reminded me a lot of Butch with traces of Vishous from the BDB.
The main characters are: Jim Heron, still on active duty, but taking a leave of absence; Vin DiPietro, Marie-Teresa and Devina.
This is a good, solid beginning to a new series by JR Ward.
Taking place in some classic locations for readers of Ward's Black Dagger Brotherhood series, there's a lot that's familiar in this story and also something new.
Jim Heron is the main character of the series, although it seems there will be a romantic story line to each book.
My one complaint is that Ward is beginning to remind me of a singer who has a very strong instrument and a marvelous trill but doesn't know when to let a single note simply carry the moment.
J. R Ward introduces us to her fallen angels and the struggles of the everyday person.We meet Jim Heron, a recluse who doesn’t say much, but by looking at him you know that he has lived a pretty sordid life.
Just so happens the woman from last night is his boss’s woman and the shock of it all leads Jim to have an onsite accident, which cost him his life, and a revelation that will save the world.Jim wakes up from his accident in an unfamiliar place with four very inhumanly beautiful men.
By the end of the book I loved him and was glad that he was there for Vin through everything, with the help of Adrian and Eddie, who I absolutely adore, by the way.
I'm glad the guy ended up dead, and I was practically cheering Vin on when he was shooting the guy.One of my favorite things about reading this book was picking out all the things from J.R. Ward's Black Dagger Brotherhood books and her novella, The Story of Son. The Iron Mask and Trez were the first things and I cannot tell you how excited I got.
Unfortunately, this book just didn't grab my attention quite like the 'Black Dagger Brotherhood', although the two series are supposed to be intertwined.
When Jim, a construction worker with a deadly past, gets electrocuted on the worksite, he is recruited to fight alongside fallen angels in the war of good vs.
That being said, I would not listen to the audiobook version of this story if I had it to do over.
If I had read the Kindle version, I might have gotten more enjoyment from this story.For me, it was good but not great.
This book is awesome and whilst I feel as though I should write a synopsis of the story I expect many others have already done so, so I'm not going to repeat.
I will say that everything about this book is wonderful the characters, the sub plots, everything!
If you are a fan of the Black Dagger Brotherhood books and enjoy the way J R Ward brings her intricate and intriguing world together then you're sure to love this too.
The plot is straight forward but where the story shines is the way JR Ward ties in all the other stuff big and small, and leaves you with an overall story that is Romance, mystery, crime, horror/paranormal.
Chained to all the places that he never wished to stayBound with all the weight of all the words he tried to sayAs he faced the sun he cast no shadow -Noel GallagherSo I started this book riding on the crest of the Lover Reborn wave – looking for something to break up with barren WARDenless wasteland before the next BDB book arrives and didn’t have massively high expectations. I should have known better to doubt the WARDen though and can happily report that it’s a totally new approach to the age
They tell Jim that he is going to save the world by saving 7 souls who are at a crossroads in their lives and he must guide them on the correct path.
It’s soon apparent to Jim that Marie Terese is Vin’s redemption and Devina is the wrong turn.As in all good stories, the course of true love never did run smooth and Marie Terese also has a past she is hiding and it’s a tough road ahead for her and Vin. Vin takes her back to where he grew up and they sit there together in the dusty house and I thought these scenes were really well written.
However if you’re a die-hard fan of this author, I think The Fallen Angels series will keep you entertained as you wait for the release of the next BDB book.Covet did suffer from a slow start, and I had a little issue with the setting and surrounding characters paralleling the BDB universe.
Interesting and better in terms of other stories I’ve read on fallen angels, but still not high on my rating scale.
I don't want to go into what I felt could have been deleted because I don't want to spoil anything for anyone.
There was a lot of information that I felt wasn't necessary and just added to the confusion overall.
I liked Vin and Marie Therese together.
I felt there growing love was well done,even if they say I love you 3 days after they meet.
I like Jim. Adrian and Eddie I didn't feel attached to.
I like Trez and was happy to see him at the Iron Mask.
Overall, the book was Decent.
After having read the BDB, I'm not sure what I expected, but I thoroughly enjoyed this book. I liked the little crossovers with the BDB that could be seen at some points. I'm moving on to the next in this series now.
This man, Jim Heron, has played for both teams, yes he has a good heart, which the angels like, but he has performed bad deeds which appeal to the demons.
Jim is a regular mortal, until an unfortunate accident, when he then meets four "people" that help guide him on his journey.In this journey, we have Vin Di Pietro, Real Estate Mogul, wealthy, high powered who is dating Devina, perfect, gorgeous woman.
Of course, perfect Marie-Terese will win the heart of Vin, because isn't that they way things always go?What I liked:The World - As I said, this is set in her bdb world, but the vamps are off doing their own thing.
The back stories that Ward develops for Marie-Terese and Vin are detailed enough that there is a really good sense of not only who they are but who they were and the choices that lead them to this point.
Okay this is the question that all of Ward's fans want answered, "Is this as good as the Black Dagger Brotherhood series?" Ward's style is pretty distinct - which means that the f-bombs, slang, and brand name dropping which irks some readers are present here - but I enjoy her style and it gives Covet the flavor of the BDB books without the fangs.
