https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/10139466-the-fateful-adventures-of-the-good-soldier-svejk-during-the-world-war-b
So.I've finally finished the tale of "The Good Soldier Svejk".In reviews of the first two books, I discussed how important the new translation is into deepening the reader's experience with the book - and that can't be understated, but I won't belabor it here.
It was a fascinating look at Central Europe - and exposes an earthy, humorous culture - because "Svejk" is as much a story of the Czech people as it is about the titular character.
I was an editorial consultant on this new English translation.
Not as smooth as, but more faithful and interesting than, the standard Parrott translation.No doubt Jaroslav Hasek’s favorite way to pass the time was to sit in a pub drinking beer and talking with friends.
I had the unsurpassed pleasure in 2004 of sitting in the Czech Crown Inn of Lipnice, where Hasek wrote the closing books about Svejk, talking over mugs of beer with Hasek’s great-grandson Martin, and later meeting his great-granddaughter Petra.
Visit Lipnice if you get the chance, where the Hasek family now owns that inn.
Much like Tristram Shandy, and to some extent Don Quixote, the book is more or less a piling-up of marginally related stories, "just one damn thing after another." The novel is unfinished--Hasek died while writing it--but because of this fundamental characteristic, I don't think it matters that much.
The novel contains very little in the way of character development.
It doesn't seem like this is particularly of interest to Hasek as a writer; none of the other characters in the book are rounded or develop over time either, and Svejk doesn't have any complex relationships.
OPINIA Z 10 SIERPNIA 20121 listopada 2012 zacząłem czytać pierwsze dwa tomy Szwejka, które skończyłem po bardzo długim czasie 24 grudnia tego samego roku.
Często nawet dzień kończenia tytułu nie jest przypadkowy, a z premedytacją wydłużony, by był bardziej "okrągły" lub "uroczyściejszy".
Z tego powodu postanowiłem na dzień 31 lipca skończyć trzeci i czwarty tom Szwejka.
Przysiadłem i okazało się, że trzeci i czwarty tom jest o wiele zabawniejszy niż pierwsze dwa.
Idiotyzm.W trakcie czytania postanowiłem sobie przypomnieć początek historii wojaczki Szwejka i obejrzałem film z 1956 roku "Dobry wojak Szwejk" z Rudolfem Hrusinskym.
Všechny 4 díly se moc dobře četly, je škoda, že Hašek nestihl dílo dokončit.Je to takové milé, ale nedá se souhlasit s tím, že Čechové by byli národ Švejků, to bychom museli být všichni retardovaní.
