https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/564204.The_Road_to_Middle_Earth
If you're going to study Tolkien, you probably can't avoid Shippey.
Fortunately, his work is reasonably readable -- although long-winded: for the size of the book it took me surprisingly long to get through it -- and he has a good grasp of Tolkien's 'sources'.
It's not a precisely relaxing read, going into the depth of detail it does, and referring to works of Tolkien's which I haven't read or which were themselves difficult to digest.Still, it's a good place to start, and it's probably more enjoyable if you don't have an essay deadline looming up behind you, tapping pointedly on your shoulder.
The strong comic vein of "The Hobbit" owes much to the clash between Bilbo's modern anachronisms--the jacket he wears, his handkerchiefs, his talk of "profit" and "contracts"--and the archaic world in which Thorin Oakenshield and the others live.
All the comedy in the book comes from this contrast--but in the end, the comic vein gives way, as Thorin, on his deathbed, exchanges with Bilbo parting words indicating a newfound mutual understanding and tolerance of their respective worlds: "I am glad that I have shared in your perils--that has been more than any Baggins deserves." "No!" said Thorin.
Analysis of Tolkien's sources and the uses he put to them is a stape of Tolkien criticism.
What Shippey has done that no one else has done anywhere near as well (so far as I'm aware) is look at Tolkien's use of those sources and use it to illuminate Tolkien's creative process.
In so doing, Shippey brings together Tolkien's scholarly identity as a philologist and his authorial identity as a writer of fantasy, and shows that those two identities are one and the same.Put simply, this is the best single book of Tolkien criticism that I have read.
We all know (or wrongly deny) that J.R.R. Tolkien was a genius.
But Shippey, who took over Tolkien's chair at Oxford, looks at Tolkien's teaching curriculum and comes up with a definitive vote that Tolien was the greatest writer of the English-speaking world.
By studying the place names in the Lord of the Rings (and the other works), Shippey shows how Tolkien recaptured English history from long before the 1006 Conquest, and conencted with the myths and tales that had been transmitted into England long before the arrival of Christanity.
It's not easy creating one myth.
Tolkien did that, while also saving the essence of many more.
It can be a little dry at time, but definitely worth the read if you're a Tolkien fan. The worst part about it is it makes you want to read all of Tolkien's work.... again.
oh, I am going to use this book for my thesis. Shippey shows such interesting insights into Tolkien and his writings and I owe several thoughts for my thesis to him and his appearances on the extended edition Lord of the Rings bonus materials. And this book.
Thus, Shippey has mastered all the northern European languages and source texts that Tolkien drew on for his creation of Middle Earth.
I'm considering reading Shippey's other book on Tolkien 'Author of the Century' but don't know if it repeats alot of this book.
The reason I mention this is that Shippey's view seems to shape his understanding of the Christian themes reflected in LOTR, as when he considers such questions as how the 'righteous pagans' in Middle-Earth could be saved, etc.
This is quite a book.
It took me a while to make it through the entire book.But I still liked it.
I had no idea there was so much under the surface of books that I have loved for so long.
I always knew that Tolkien was an expert in languages and so I guess I just thought that he wrote a great story and decided to add some linguistic nuances to it for fun.
I never knew that Tolkien worked so much of the ancient myths and stories and poems and languages into his works.

Years ago, I had read Shippey's "Author of the Century" book about Tolkien, and had enjoyed it. I also thoroughly enjoyed this book, although I took quite awhile to finish it. If you want to know how Tolkien's work as a philologist influenced his writing, this is as fine as any book will do to show you how that is threaded through Tolkien's creations.Strangely enough, I now want to re-read "Author of the Century," but know that I need to take a break from Middle-earth for a bit... But not for long...
The author is a brilliant man I am sure. Yet, his focus is deeper than my cranium can hold. Most of book is written at a Oxford professors level, using an Oxford professors language. I had to skim it like no book before. I did learn some interesting things but they were <10 % of text. Only for other philologists.
It took me a while to really get into this book (the first chapter or so deviated from my interests and why I picked up this book to begin with (i.e., the lit vs. lang topic escapes me)), but once it got rolling, I was transfixed. I already knew Tolkien was a genius, but Shippey really illuminated for me what Tolkien was doing in his writing with language.
I enjoyed this book, but it's very much meant for hard-core lovers of words. So if etymologies make you yawn, this is probably not for you! However, since Tolkien himself was a philologist and while writing was always very much aware of the meaning of words and how they had changed over time, it gives interesting insights into his work and sources.
Volver a la tierra media...un viaje más académico pero no menos vital. Interesante hermenéutica de Tolkien
Best book I've ever read about Tolkien.
The more i read about Middle-earth the more I love it. Now all I have to do is wait until May and read The Tale of Beren and Lúthien.
Some parts were very interesting and fascinating; the rest seemed (to me) to be a lot of meandering - though this may have been the effect of me only reading a few pages every night before bed.
He got his revenge in other ways, of course, but Shippey shows just how unreasonable some of Tolkien's critics have been often appealing to idealised concepts of what great literature should be and declaring that LotR fails to pass muster.
There are lots of other interesting insights too - "bourgeois" and "burglar" both come from the same root, which gives us some further insights into Bilbo and the original concept of hobbits (which of course moved on as the story developed).
(Es entretenido ver como los Valar en los libros de Tolkien actúan bajo la idea del azar...así que pondré este incidente en esa perspectiva...xD!
Es VITAL para todos los que trabajen a Tolkien en cualquier lado del mundo, y sobre todo en un país tan alejado de este tipo de estudios, como el mio, donde aún Tolkien sigue siendo un escritor de fantasía y nada más.
A fascinating look at some of the influence on Middle Earth.I'm particularly fond of the portion where he discusses how philology works to trace words, and how a hapax legomenon in Anglo-Saxon can have its meaning eludicated by tracing what would be the equivalent word in German, and discovering it had something to do with sworn oaths, and so probably means "sworn band."But it has other interesting stuff: the contrasting of hobbit views vs.
But evil fortune is what happens to you (or doesn't, if you accept Boethius's view).
I was very interested to learn about the stories that influenced Tolkien's works and am glad to have the opportunity to read many of them that have been published by his son Christopher by way of translations by his father.In this work, Shippey does a wonderful job of speaking to Tolkien's work through words.
I learned a ton from this book and will be reading many more books based on the Appendix of "Tolkien's Sources, The True Tradition".Again, only for the hard-core Tolkien fan, writing fan, or word scholar.
A provocative reflection on Tolkien's work by another English philologist, mostly concerned with proving that critics who called The Lord of the Rings trash were wrong on their own terms.
The most important takeaways for me are the analysis of how the arrangement of high heroism in the spirit of Norse sagas, quasi-Victorian elements like the Shire and quasi-Christian theology reflects Tolkien trying to reconcile what he considered best in each worldview.
It's a pity that Shippey gives The Silmarillion less than a quarter of his book and doesn't like it nearly as well as The Lord of the Rings or, as far as I can tell, The Hobbit.
It opened my eyes with regard to stories that I had read dozens of times and pretty much knew by heart - and how many books will you ever read that you can say that about?Shippey's basic point is that Tolkien was by nature and profession a philologist, by which he means not simply someone who studies words but someone who specifically studies words in relation to old texts.
From here he proceeds to point out all sorts of insightful features of Tolkien's stories that had been staring you in the face but you never say (the commentary on the Sackville-Bagginses is up there with best).To be honest, I think by now we are ready to move forward.
I'm not good with words, and I'm sure Tolkien would be banging on his coffin if he even caught a glimpse of my writing, but I can write that he was a mastermind.
Not because he created "The Lord of the Rings", it was because he wrote a truly English novel where ever word meant something and every sentenced weaved into a grand tapestry.
I can't think of anyone else that was critical, loving and guarding of the English language than Tolkien.
The Road to Middle-earth sets out the creation of J.
Tolkien's legendarium, consisting of The Hobbit, Lord of the Rings and The Silmarillion, and then explores it critically – not from a "literature" perspective that was often at-odds with Tolkien (and Tolkien at odds with it), but from the scholarly viewpoint that Tolkien himself approached the writing of his life's work from.
It allows one to trace and explore Tolkien's sources and inspirations, at the same time gaining insight to the word of Middle-earth.
A word of warning though: Shippey's writing does not necessarily make for an easy read.
Of you are looking to really study Tolkien more in depth, then this text is a vital starting point.
Tom Shippey takes a look at much of how Tolkien approached the craft of writing, and especially how he approached writing _The Lord of the Rings_.
At times the reading is a bit dry, which is why I can't give more than three stars.
Also, there are some conclusions that Shippey makes that are a bit tenuous and that I can't necessarily agree with (most notably regarding his assertion that the _Beowulf_ poet was a Christian), which, rather than being an actual weakness, just leaves room for more scholarship and research.
Still, a very worthwhile read for any interested in further study on Tolkien.
As I've stated in many of my reviews: This is for the hardcore Tolkien fans.
What Shippey does is he takes Tolkien's work and adds a detailed Works Cited page.
He explores many of Tolkien's sources and established an in-depth discussion on all things Tolkien.
From the bourgeois burglar to a discussion on Secondary and Primary Art......If you've watched the movies twice and have never picked up the books then this book probably isn't for you.
If you, like myself, have read the LOTR, The Silmarillion, The Hobbit, Farmer Giles of Ham, Sir Gawain, Hrolf, Beowolf, Monsters & Critics, etc.
There are many, many more serious Tolkien scholars than the causal reader might assume, but Tom Shippey, through his knowledge, his background, and his diligence stands far above the rest. This work is an exhaustive study of Tolkien's works, but also of how his scholarship and his philologist background were critical to his composition of Middle-Earth, and his other work as well. A fantastic read for students of language and fans of Tolkien alike. One of the most enjoyable chapters shows this scholar debunking the high-fallutin' critics' dismissal of Tolkien's import. A stunning work, worthy if its complex source material.
No book of Tolkien criticism is a 5 star read, but this is as good as it gets.
Shippy's argument here is crucial for Tolkien Studies (and helpful for any serious reader of the books).
A little too "intentionalist," it doesn't explore incidental, accidental, and counter-productive representations that appear in the books; and like all Tolkien criticism its scholarship is watered down to make it more "accessible" for non-professionals; but it's still quite strong.
It's the first book you should read if you want to get a "literary" understanding of Tolkien's stories.
Shippey is a competent medievalist and a specialist in Old English literature and language. There is no doubt about that, his essays are packed with information you would not get from any literary critic. It is a mekka of things you would like to know about Tolkien’s fiction, no kidding here. What lacks is perhaps a more literary approach, but I still loved it – it proved to be indispensable when writing a dissertation on Tolkien’s fiction. Additionally, few excerpts were simply breathtaking – that man is a genius!
