https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/401761.The_Bafut_Beagles
Книжки Джеральда Даррелла то суттєва частина читацького "мого всього" уже...
а, холєра, здається, 21 рік, але можу помилитися.
І втретє і цього разу в українському перекладі* - все одне "моє все": гумор (не такий ядучий, як в пізніших книжках, але вже видно, що будуть люди), цікавого формату "англійськість", страшенна залюбленість у все живе (і людей ми з цього списку поки що не викреслюємо) і не менш масштабний талант знаходити пригоди на власну дупу.
А ще трохи етнології, багато етології та комплект ненудних пейзажних замальовок.
І ще казково-епічний гірський Камерун, якого, може, в такому вигляді вже й не існує.Люблю.
Просто люблю.
Усе-таки ніхто так не пише про тварин, як Джеральд Даррелл.Цей чоловік, який поклав усе своє життя заради порятунку рідкісних видів, був по вінця сповнений любові до всього живого.
Для багатьох з них Джеральд Даррелл був першою білою людиною, яку вони зустріли в своєму житті, тож вони ставляться до нього з неймовірною цікавістю і доброзичливою гостинністю (хоча в тої гостинності є й зворотній бік: автор не раз згадує як нелегко йому давалися численні тяжкі пиятики з фоном Бафуту чи, скажімо, як йому доводилося ввічливо відмовитися взяти за дружину 15-річне дівча).Приємне, легке і пізнавальне чтиво.
Любіть і поважайте тварин!
E, ovo me baš osvježilo. zabavne zgode tijekom hvatanja životinja za zoo vrtove, doživljaji s njima u kampu, druženje s Fonom od Bafuta i njegovim podanicima...totalno opuštanje
«Гончаки Бафуту» — це оповідь про першу Камерунську експедицію Даррелла-звіролова, в якій він замешкав у резиденції фона Бафуту (Бафут — так би мовити «традиційне» королівство у межах Камеруну, фон — титул його правителя).
І, треба сказати, цей титул вони несли гордо.Експедиції Даррелла зазвичай минали так: він облаштовував табір і, по-перше, ходив зі знавцями тамтешньої фауни і флори на лови, а, по-друге, заохочував місцевий люд нести йому усілякого «звіра».
Звісно, серед тварин, яких шукав зоолог, переважали рідкісні види, тому він розказував і показував на картинках, якого «звіра» йому треба.
От я, наприклад, просто закохалася в галаго і тепер дуже хочу побачити його вживу!
It's quite interesting reading this at the same time as I'm listening to the audiobook of "Blood River".
There's nothing so crude as overt racism of course, and it would be pointless to judge him by the standards of today anyway, but the spirit of the age shines through every paragraph, and reading it in conjunction with the more modern work only makes it the more obvious.
This is the first book by Gerald Durrell I read, and I immediately became a fan. He writes with humour and sympathy about animals, and his adventures are vintage reads. He also made me look at zoos and their role in conservation in a new light.
On it's surface, and I'm sure at the time it was written it was received this way, it presents itself as a charming account of an expedition to Cameroon to pick up live animals to bring back to England to study, replete with amusing anecdotes about the difficulties of collecting and caring for the animals, and humorous depictions of the people Durrell meets along the way...Can you spot the problem?
Glad I read it, but I don't think I'll be picking up any more books by Durrell.
The locals speak pidgeon English, and all the dialogue is written in that, which is quite fun to read.Durrell is a really good writer, and it feels like taking a proper trip into Africa, meeting the locals, learning something of the local wildlife and seeing a bit of scenery.
There was one animal, this flying mouse thing, that he gets over 20 individuals of, and by the time he gets back to the UK, they're all dead.One of the best bits of human - wildlife interaction was when the Fon takes off all his robes of office, and trots off as a hunter into the wilds with Durrell to show him a new animal.
Otro libro de Durrell que me ha encantado.
Me ha sorprendido lo tolerante que es el libro para estar escrito en los años 40, Durrell no habla de los africanos como primitivos sino que vive con ellos y participa de sus costumbres.
Sí que hay diferencia entre el hombre blanco y el negro: los africanos le llevan su equipaje y realizan las tareas más peligrosas pero Durrell tampoco es que se quede sentado en casa sin hacer nada.
Se nota que no es un libro del siglo XXI pero es muy avanzado en este sentido para su época y eso me ha gustado.
Wow, wow, wow.
I was at airport in between my flights and i need something to pass my time.
So i just go to store and pick a random book up and guess what, It was The Bafut Beagles.
I causally go through first few pages and start to feel that this is not the usual book we read.
It has something extra and something new.
The natural comedy that generate from individual from this book, commentary by My Durrell about certain incidence, Bafut people and most of all an exciting world of wild life.
I am just stunned.Super cool :)
Another thoroughly enjoyable book by Durrell. Each time I read him, I met such fascinating creatures. And Durrell can make even a toad adorable!
Люблю книжки про тварин і навколотваринні справи.
Плюс безліч пригодницьких оповідей про джунглі чи, наприклад, Аляску.
Отже, цієї книжки Дарела не промину - не читав в дитинстві.В цій книзі герой приїхав до Африки збирати тварин для зоопарку.
І в книзі, відповідно, дві теми: африканські тварини, їх спосіб життя і полювання на них, а друга - стосунки з тубільцями.
І те і те цікаво.Крім того, що книжка пізнавальна, так ще й правдива та весела - Дарел не ханжа і не намагається намалювати казочку в дусі "любіть природу, вашу мати":) Отже тут є смерть, забобони, алкоголізм, статеве життя африканських мавп, небезпека, дивовижні тварини, кумедні сцени.
I read it in Czech, as usual with Durrell books.
This edition is without original illustrations.
Czech added scarce illustrations of a very popular artist, Adolf Born.
The title in Czech is "Bafutští chrti".
Knowing that the hunters to whom the name belongs are mostly thin, with long legs and big feet (as much as long arms and finger part) this name is more appropriate than the original English name.
"Chrt" means a greyhound dog, "Chrti" being the plural of it.
Far away of beagles as I know them from the streets of my town.
Another amazing book my the Mr Durrell who has become my favorite author now when it comes to animals :-)This is the story of Durrell's animal collecting expedition to what was then the British Cameroons, in the late 1940's. The book is full of memorable characters, human and animal which is almost unbelievable to say the least because they are just so amazing! Trust me, you will end up praying to be on this trip if it was possible by any means!
Another hugely enjoyable tale from Gerald Durrell, describing his second animal collecting trip to Cameroon. The antics of the animals, the local people and his own mishaps are all recounted with warm and gentle humour.
This is a view of what the area around Bafut was like back when it was British. I knew it much later, but it was an interesting read and very recognizable. The use of pidgin brought back memories, but there are many more French words used now.
Delightful!
Я в захваті. Раджу дану книгу всім хто любить природу. Чудові пейзажі, детальні описи тварин та їх поведінки. Відпочив читаючи. Чекаю наступних перекладів. П.с. Переклад дуже грамотний :)
I read and loved all of Gerald Durrell's books maybe 40 years ago. I just revisited this one, and it's still delightful.
Keep in mind that I read these books when I was 14 years old (I'm now 37) and so details such as racism or class superiority went by me.
But now looking back, the descriptions of the African's use of pdgin english and bumbling antics of the tribesmen do sound dated, however this is not to say that the book is a downright obscene - Durrell does mention positive aspects of the Cameroonian culture as well.
For an animal lover this is a must read and if you are interested in a 1940's view of Africa from an Englishman then I suggest you take a look at it as well.
The story is full of humor (which, incidentally, is not captured by the audiobook narrator, who seems to not grasp the humor or is unable to portray it.)The best place to start with Durrell is My Family and Other Animals, which tells of Durrell's introduction to nature as a child, spending a summer exploring on the Greek Isle of Corfu.
It is hilarious and fascinating and very memorable.The Bafut Beagles is very similar to Durrell's A Zoo in My Luggage, the story of a subsequent collecting trip to the Cameroons.
«Гончие Бафута» лишены единой повествовательной линии. Это прежде всего набор занимательных случаев, о которых Даррелл решил вспомнить. В какой-то момент на читателя обязательно навалится ощущение скуки, ведь об особом разнообразии в приключениях Джеральда говорить не приходится. Да и чувство одиночества не позволяет понять радужность авторских похождений. Всё кажется прекрасным, но чего-то постоянно не хватает. Думается, Даррел испытывал нехватку в единомышленниках. Видно, что Джеральд любит природу. Для остальных участников повествования природа — естественная среда обитания, в которой животные добываются сугубо ради пропитания.(c) Trounin
I read this while at school or university along with other Gerald Durrell books. Re-reading this book it seems dated in its attitude towards Africans but very good humoured, and the black & white illustrations by Ralph Thompson fit the text as if he were present during the events portrayed.It is the story of one of Gerald Durrell's animal collection expeditions from early 1950s (or late 1940s) to Cameroon in West Africa. These expeditions collected animals primarily for British zoos. It was a natural job for Durrell who had collected plenty of animals and birds while growing up on Corfu.
As always with Gerald Durrell, this book is easy to read and full of humour.
To be fair, it would have been a rare European in the 1940's who saw Africans as equals, there is no outright brutality - this is a book of humour, after all!
Still, this grated, and in addition I for one get bored quickly by drinking scenes, but the book is saved from an even lower rating by one of Durrell's great redeeming features: an unflagging ability to laugh at himself, which together with the animals makes much of it a delight to read.
I read this in the 60's, an inspiring romp through Cameroon chasing after "wild "animals to put into zoo's. Don't recall much about it 50 years later but it is interesting to note, being here in Cameroon now, there are not many, maybe any, of those animals left. Bush meat, compromised habitat and excessive human growth have done the damage. Visiting Bafut I wonder at the older men and women, how many of them were even alive when he was here in 1949. Time to revisit it, should I find a copy somewhere!
While Durrell was reputed to exaggerate some of his experiences when on animal collecting trips for his private zoo in Jersey, no one could deny he had a way with words and delivered many humorous anecdotes about the animals and the people involved through a whole series of books. The Bafut Beagles (actually a group of men who assisted Durrell in his quests in that part of Africa) was one of the funniest and is a very entertaining read.
I read this book 50 years ago and it remains one of Durrell's classic animal collector's tales. It is full of characters, both human like the tall, elegant Fon of Bafut and animals like the elusive hairy toad. Our affable British guide drinks gin with the Fon and teaches his people the conga line. The high grasslands are well described and, as always, mischievous animals cause havoc. Durrell laughs with his hunters and at himself. Treat yourself to a jolly time with this book.
One of the funniest books I've ever read. Durrell travels to the small country of Camaroon and interacts with a jungle community, complete with its own king. The pidgin English is hilarious without ever being demeaning, and the tribes people knock themselves out helping Durrell and his crew gather rare species. Not to be missed.
Durrell's books are a delightful collection of anecdotes regarding his adventures whilst collecting animals. This book is about a trip to the Cameroons and my major complaint is the cringe -worthy way in which he refers to "the Africans" he comes across. Not overt racism but some of the dialogue and his observations left me feeling a bit uncomfortable.
A lovely and descriptive look at animal collecting in Africa in the 1950s. Gerald Durrell's affection for the people of Bafut is obvious. There are many funny moments, which will have you snorting coffee down your nose. Glorious.
