https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1030044.God_Is_My_Co_Pilot
This is one of the first book I ever read. My father served during WWII and was part of the successor to the Flying Tigers. This book really influenced me in that I wanted to learn to fly and then go into the military. After this book, I read just about everything I could get my hands on concerning WWII fighter pilots.
The novel God Is My Co-Pilot by Colonel Robert L.
The story begins with twelve-year-old Robert Scott executing a carelessly planned prank on his church congregation.
Scott obtains a position as a fighter pilot and begins flying attack missions for the military.The stories that Scott tells of the missions he flew and the situations he got himself in and out of are truly amazing.
I could tell that Colonel Scott lead a very interesting life and had truly mind-blowing experiences in his Air Force career.
Be prepared to take a turbulent flight through the piloting life of Colonel Robert L.
Found this in my library collecting dust, but after reading it I was more than amazed of Robert L.
Scott's account as a pilot.
Published during the war, it can be seen as a propaganda piece, but I did find a lot of honesty in his accounts and even respect for the skill of the Japanese pilots and that the Imperial forces shouldn't be underestimated.
Either way, the book is a must read.
This is a memoir of a WWII pilot who fought in the China-Burma theater during 1942 and part of 1943. He shot down 13 Japanese planes with his P-40 fighter. He flew with the Flying Tigers as well as the US Army Air Corps. It is a well written book and gives good descriptions of air combat and the life they led while flying. It is not written as a religious book, but simply his personal experiences.
This book was interesting. It was written by someone who was there in China during WWII. It was certainly a product of it's time. The thoughts and opinions of Americans at the time are evident. It was really just a glimpse of one small area where the war played out - definitely not the big picture. But a part of the war that I hadn't even heard of before.
If you have commitment problem, read this book.
Scott wrote this book about his adventures as a mail carrier during horrible storms, getting lost over the Atlantic Ocean, running rescue missions in China for the Flying Tigers, and going2 miles over the top of Mount Everest.
He was an amazing pilot and wrote a great book.
This theme is conveyed throughout the book from the col.’s building of his own glider at the age of twelve and crashed it.
At one point in the story when Robert flies a single engine American ship 2 miles over MT Everest.
I enjoyed everything about this book from the great descriptions too the awesomeness of col.
The majority of the book covers his role as commander of the AVG, a collection of some of the best fighter pilots of WWII, many of whom came from the infamous Flying Tigers.
Later,he hears stories from the indigenous Chinese about the fearsome fighter squadron stationed at the airfield and chuckles to himself knowing he was the only pilot there.
The last line of the poem reads, "[I:] put out my hand and touched the face of God."My grandfather gave me a first edition of this book.
I think I've underestimated the quality of reading experience you get from old books and books in general.
This is my younger brother's favorite book and he wanted me to read it.
Growing up in Japan it was rather uncomfortable for me when Mr. Scott would refer to the Japanese as mad dogs (or worse), but I also feel I can't judge those airmen either...they were doing what they had to do and their attitudes (while I might not agree with them) were normal for the time.
I liked it, but I'm not sure how many other girls would...if they want to read something written from the viewpoint of a China flyer in the midst of WWII then they would enjoy it.
I liked this book a lot, especially because it was a neat jumping off point to another discussion with my grandpa about his experience in China Burma India in 1943 to the end of the war.
He read the book 60 years ago, and my reading of it now is making him want to dig out his copy and try it again.It was neat to have my grandpa's opinion on some of the book.
He wrote this book about his adventures as a mail carrier during horriale storms, getting lost over the Atlantic Ocean, running rescue missions on in China for the Flying Tigers, and going almost to the top of Mount Everest.
He was a amazing pilot and wrote a great book.
So they made him a fighter pilot instructor.
When he heard that he was mad because his whole life he wanted to be a fighter pilot.
They finally let him fly in the mission and the rest is history.I really injoyed reading this book.
Perhaps this book is nothing more than a propaganda piece from the 1940s, but as a twelve-year-old boy, this book grabbed my attention like none other. I found an original print of it one fine summer in Greensboro, Vermont at the local library during a book sale and purchased it for 50 cents. My life has never been the same.
This is one that my dad recommended to me--he'd read it as a young man. I now would have to second dad's recommendation and would recommend to anyone interested in learning more about World War II. Keep in mind the time frame in which it was written and pair it up with a general WWII history.
This is a very readable personal account of an American pilot on the European front during world war II. Robert Lee Scott was a devout Catholic who attributes his survival to God, whom he says was with him always.
Despite the title, this is not a book on religion. It's an autobiography of Robert L. Scott, who fought in Burma/China during WWII as a member of the U.S. Army Air Corp. It's an interesting read.
One of his squadron is on the Spartanburg Veterans' Memorial
I have an autographed copy if this book.
Great personal stories about the early phase of 14th AF in China, right after the disband of the AVG (Flying Tiger).
Seemed good when I read it. Hard to remember the details now.
I remember almost nothig about it except that it was about flying the "Hump" in WW2 SE Asia. One of my Scholastic Magazine books in Jr. High. Date read is a guess.
Classic WWII tale of a man who knew what he wanted and went after it letting no seeming impossible obstacles prevent him from attaining his goal. Great life lessons and great story telling!
A classic.
War time propaganda, but a fun read. Just don't think of it as history
Met the author after a speech in Warner Robins, Georgia in the late 1980's. Wonderful book, humble man.
Read this when I was young.
This book directly led me to choose a career. Enough said.
