https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/34502.Soul_Music
Susan, Death's granddaughter (who is kinda blissfully unaware).As she learns to wield the scythe as much as her unique form of memory and everything inherited from her grandfather, music arrives on the Discworld in the form of a guitar bought in a peculiar shop (think of the "woodcarver shop" in Pixar's Brave).
*snort-giggles*A wonderful adventure through dark alleys, in stinking taverns, along sharply winding roads and up on stages that is the introduction of one of the best characters, apparently: Susan.

A very nice re-read 9/13/18:I love music.
I love humor.
I love seeing wizards rock the house.
Oh, and everyone else getting slipped an extra-dimensional mickey in their drinks, too.
:)If we're really talking about sex, drugs, and rock and roll, I know we have the rock and roll down.
There are even a few trolls to do it RIGHT.
The drugs bit is Discworld itself, OF COURSE.
And if you really think about it, our universe really is doing a little slip & slide with Discworld, too.SEE?
METAPHOR STRETCHED, NOT BROKEN.
:)I loved seeing Susan here.
Death, too, of course.
Discworld Playlist: 1) "There's a Great Deal of Shaking Happening"2) "Give Me That Music With Rocks In"3) "Pathway to Paradise"4) "Born to Rune" two and a half stars
Soul Music was, I guess, my first true love.
Um, I mean with Terry Pratchett.
Um, I mean ...
you know what I mean.
:DSo much so that when I had to pick the topic of my 4,000-word IB extended essay, there was no room for doubt.
It had to be Susan.
And Death.
And the Music With Rocks In. And the life-saving, human-defining importance of rebellion.
(Teen angst, ha!
teen me would fume.
What d'you grown-ups know?)Meet 4,000-word essay here:http://kal.zavinagi.org/?p=92WARNING: Even though this is the least academic of all the many drafts I wrote, it still sounds terribly highfalutin.
Any Discworld that features Death is a winner in my book. I love the addition of the raven, and Susan's journey as Death's granddaughter was an interesting one. And of course all the musical references were pretty great.Audiobook narrated by Nigel Planer. Thumbs up!
I re-read this book slowly past few weeks.So slowly I even forgot to added it to GR.Sadly my initial
I am convinced that Sir Pratchett wrote this book for the sole reason of putting in a "grateful Death" joke.It wasn't my favorite Discworld book, but the phrase "Music With Rocks In" is so charmingly Pratchett that I kind of wanted to hug it.
Now do you believe in rock and roll?Can music save your mortal soul? *A fab foursome causes wizards to shake, rattle and roll, and manages to bring some hot times (not to mention broken furniture) to the Mended Drum. Suddenly, there's an earworm loose in Discworld, and now everyone's got their toes-a-tappin' and a song in their hearts.Though I can't say exactly what was wrong, this one fell flat for me. It squeaks by with 3 stars ONLY because I liked the Death of Rats, Susan, the swing that Dea
Now do you believe in rock and roll?Can music save your mortal soul?
*A fab foursome causes wizards to shake, rattle and roll, and manages to bring some hot times (not to mention broken furniture) to the Mended Drum.
It squeaks by with 3 stars ONLY because I liked the Death of Rats, Susan, the swing that Death built for her (Awww!), and the part in the book where an inebriated Death gets his pockets picked by the bar patrons before they toss him into the river.
(Or, more precisely, ONTO the river.)*Don MacLean
Without the empty chord, music is just noise.”It was just happenstance that the first Pratchett book I got to read after Sir Terry died last month is one of those that feature DEATH, and musings on, but it certainly made the experience of reading Soul Music more bittersweet than it would have been otherwise.
It didn’t end up being my favorite Discworld book, but it’s still a reminder of what we’ve lost in losing* Terry Pratchett.*A euphemism implying we can probably find him hiding under our beds or stuffed in the fridge next to the ketchup if only we just looked hard enough.The Discworld books don’t have to be read in order, but I have to read them that way.
Meanwhile, with Death missing, the role is picked up by his young granddaughter, Susan Sto-Helit.In structure this book is very similar to Reaper Man, with two main plots that barely intersect.
I think the processing of grief that both Death and Susan are doing throughout is very subtle and extremely well-handled.
In this case, the sudden discovery and obsession is for rock and roll music although, in Discworld, it goes by the name “Music with Rocks In” and includes some trolls using rocks as drums.Maybe part of the problem is that I just don’t seem to get a lot of the jokes in these types of books.
I think I actually enjoy him more when he shows up in the other subseries books.I guess it sounds like I hated the book, and I really didn’t.
I enjoyed the humor that didn’t relate to rock and roll music.
If I'd picked up this book last week written by some po-dunk nobody it'd be getting five stars and I'd be desperately googling them for websites, blogs and news of their next release.Soul Music is a slightly unbalanced pair of narratives, one about the infringing of rock and roll into the Discworld and the other a rather sombre meditation about the toll that being Death would take upon the newly humanised Death (and the continuation of the theme through his Granddaughter, a not-yet-full-formed Susan).
The Death stuff works brilliantly and is as enjoyable and thought-provoking as you'd expect, Susan is a little roughly drawn but still very engaging, however the Music with Rocks In stuff -in particular the dovetailing of the main threads at the end and pop culture referencing- makes the book feel episodic, and a little...
40 books on my Pratchett shelf, 40 books to review, if I write one now, there'll 39 books on my Pratchet shelf left to review.But it should be interesting.The way I remember it, through the first half of the DW series, Terry was busy exploring existentialism in different ways, with witches, death (and associates), a fast-running coward, the genius Night Watch (my favorite) ......
I guess this was a turning point for Terry, although I cannot be sure he wrote the books sequently, as the books later in the series suddenly become more vibrant and interesting.If you're a DW fan, you will like this.
Remain In Print Sir Terry Pratchett 1948 - 2015Once upon a time I was given a book voucher from my school and with that book voucher I went straight out and made sure I could actually own a Discworld novel rather than having to go to the library.
It just so happened to be that small window in time when I would have preferred a Disc novel about music with rocks in than one with moving pictures, and so for a while Soul Music was my favourite book about life on Disc.I went on to criticise the animated movie based on this book for losing the magic of the prose.
I love Rock 'n Roll and I enjoy humour so what's not to like?The book started really well and got two differing strands of story line going, one with Rock 'n Roll and the other with Death going AWOL so his Granddaughter, Susan, has to take up the mantle and start to run the show.
Terry Pratchett throws in the usual jokes about the subject matter with the residents of Discworld not quite getting it or making it slightly different to our own know how which produces the funnier moments in this book.
4.5 Stars!!!This is probably going to be my favorite Discworld book ever!!! Loved it!
The book came out in 94, and since I read the trade paperback, I must have discovered Terry Pratchett sometime after 1995, probably before I'd even started high school.
Soul Music is not one of the greatest Discworld books, but it will always hold a special place in my heart, because it was my first introduction to the writing of Terry Pratchett.I was still at work, getting everything ready for my lessons the next day, when my husband called to tell me that Terry Pratchett had died.
Not the best but enjoyable enough, as are even the least of Terry Pratchett's books. This one is notable for introducing Death's granddaughter, Susan, who takes on a similar role to that we'll see her in later in the much superior Hogfather. It is highly reminiscent of Moving Pictures which the characters, in true self-awareness, comment upon themselves. However, Pratchett's points are always worth pondering and his adventures surrounding the life force that music can take on is, as I said, enjoyable.
Meanwhile a bard, a troll, and a dwarf meet up and form a band and a magical guitar introduces the idea of Music with Rocks in to the Discworld.The magic that is unleashed has more to do with lampooning record company contracts than the typical fantasy, with room for plenty of puns, an hilarious tour, and some profound thoughts on what music means to people (interpreted broadly).
And also, lots of silly business with the Death of Rats and Quoth, a raven.
Funny as anything, and never mean-spirited.These books get even better with age, both mine and theirs.personal copy
I am a huge, mega huge, unbelievably devoted Discworld fanatic. However, this is probably my least favorite in the DEATH mini series. I'm not sure why it didn't work for me as much as others did, I think the over-all message that I always look for was sort of lacking. It was fun, it was funny, and of course since it's DEATH that bumped it up a notch because his dialogue as always was spot on. I just didn't care much for the musical sub plot in the book.
Falls into the category of Disc World novels where he is moving through obvious targets such as the music or film industry lacks the bite or philosophical insight you would hope or expect.
Rock n Roll invades the Discworld26 July 2014 Well, I can't believe that I have just finished my 16th Terry Pratchett Discworld novel, and that is over two years (no, not sixteen books in two years, 16 Discworld novels in two years) since I decided that I would give Pratchett the benefit of the doubt and actually read them again prior to writing up a commentary, and this isn't even the last of the Discworld novels on my 'to read' list (I think there are another six, which would bring it up to Th
Rock n Roll invades the Discworld26 July 2014	Well, I can't believe that I have just finished my 16th Terry Pratchett Discworld novel, and that is over two years (no, not sixteen books in two years, 16 Discworld novels in two years) since I decided that I would give Pratchett the benefit of the doubt and actually read them again prior to writing up a commentary, and this isn't even the last of the Discworld novels on my 'to read' list (I think there are another six, which would bring it up to The Last Continent).
I guess in another sense Pratchett is using the absurdity of Discworld to poke fun at the absurdity of modern life, in this case being rock n roll music.
I love the Death books. They're my favourite within the Discworld, closely followed by the Witches.Gotta love some Music With Rocks In It.
(Leí este libro a dos bandas, en inglés y en español al mismo tiempo, así que probablemente debería valer por dos)Probably you'll enjoy more this book if you like music, or should I say if you have something to do with music or music business.Is the story of a band of friends that joins the rocky way that leads for a new form of music, a sort of infection of strange proportions that affects to almost all in Discworld.
And it is the story of a grandfather and his granddaughter trying to understand the meaning of life and Death.And Music wanting to be free.HE HAS NO LIFE.
Iskreno rečeno ovo mi je nekako do sada najslabija knjiga u disk svetu. Glavni problem je što imam osećaj ko da sam već čitao knjigu pošto mi dosta stavri podseća na Erika. I sam humor mi u većem delu nije bio tolko zabavan. Ima par baš smešnih situacija ali sve ukupan osećaj je na žalost više jedan veliki MEH.Al dobro idemo dalje.
At this stage of DiscWorld, DEATH’s name on the marquee is enough of a crowd draw despite diminishing appearances in barely an eighth of Soul Music from a third of Reaper Man and half of Mort in the DEATH sub-series *.
I very much wanted DEATH to continue on that emotional trajectory from Reaper Man and go deeper with Soul Music.
Here was an author who at his prime was losing his memory in a rare variant of Alzheimer's disease and who had, just 13 years before, written Soul Music about a character who could never forget and never die.
Rereading this after a lot of years and in English made me notice how much I must have missed when I was younger. Also understood so many more references to songs and bands than before and the criticism on the music industry. This is probably the greatest reward of rereading the Discworld series, understanding and enjoying the books on a different level.
This time, there's no apprentice to fill the shoes, but the apprentice had a daughter...
Death's daughter.
Death of Rats, along with Albert, attempt to educate her, but hijinks ensue, as is inevitable when a rebellious, teenage girl gets ahold of the responsibility of being Death.At the same time, a young musician makes his way to Ankh-Morpork from a hole-in-the-wall country up north, looking to make his fortune.
The rock and roll phemonenon sweeps across Ankh-Morpork, gathering up Susan (Death's granddaughter) and everyone else in its' wake.One of the best books I've read in a long time.
«Quizá incluso una música podía estar viva, si era lo bastante vieja.
La gente decía: «No puedo quitarme de la cabeza esa dichosa canción…».No un mero ritmo, sino el latido de un corazón.Y cualquier cosa viva quiere reproducirse.»He disfrutado muchísimo leyéndolo, a pesar de que en un principio sentía recelo de leerlo porque al no ser una fanática del rock me daba miedo no entender las posibles referencias musicales.
No ha sido así, sí que Terry hace referencias pero no resultan excesivas por lo que lo disfrute igualmente, aunque no tuviera ni idea de a qué se refería en momentos puntuales.Terry aprovecha esta novela para hacer una crítica directa hacia la industria de la música, utilizando el rock como fenómeno para revolucionar el Mundodisco.
