https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1629601.The_Disreputable_History_of_Frankie_Landau_Banks
Next time I see a 15-year-old girl reading Twilight, I will promptly yoink it from her hands and replace it with this. (As long as she's not already dressed as a vampire.)
The story spoke to me on many levels and addressed issues that I have written articles on and feel very strongly about.On the surface, it's a high school tale of cliques, first loves and mischief - quite like the author's The Boyfriend List: 15 Guys, 11 Shrink Appointments, 4 Ceramic Frogs and Me, Ruby Oliver and the other Ruby Oliver books.
The writing in this novel was flawless with some hilarious dialogue between the characters, particularly regarding some of Frankie's ridiculous neglected positives, it's such a silly idea that shouldn't be so funny but I have no idea how many times I must have laughed.
Little scenes like this are what made the book for me:"They're not puppets, they're muppets," said Frankie.
A story about a girl navigating a boarding school where boys have some /special/ privileges over girls, she starts to fight against that system.
I liked the main character, enjoyed the boarding school setting, and really appreciated the feminist angle.
My only reason for not giving this 5 stars is that I don't think that a) it did anything particularly new with plot or character development, and b) it very firmly felt like a simple introduction to feminism - the lessons here are important, but are also very rudimentary and simple.Definitely recommend this to any teenagers who like boarding school books and who want to learn some basics of feminism!
You need to look past the surface cuteness to see this story for what it really is.- It's about power. The allure of it, the desire for it, the sharp understanding of it.- It's about ambition, unashamed and unabashed.- It's about forcing your way through the doors that are not meant to open for you.It's about the formation of a future astute politician.Meet Frankie Landau-Banks. “And so, another possibility—the possibility I hold out for—is that Frankie Landau-Banks will open the doors she is tr
In writing a story about a young woman trying so hard to grow out of being a 'Bunny Rabbit', a 'harmless' 'pretty package' sweet and sensitive young girl supportively watching her boyfriend and his friends learn to grow into their birthright of securely powerful WASPs, she created a story that can be so temping to pigeonhole:- into the story about a boarding school and secret societies.- into the story of learning about feminism.- into an unfortunate love story.- into a coming of age story.- into a story about the silly problems of those who have all the privilege and none of the real struggle.But it's more that any of the above.And I stick with my idea that the glue that keeps this story together and elevates it head and shoulders above so many others is precisely the theme of power and ambition and politics; all this in a young woman who typically is not associated with any of the above, whose role is traditionally supposed to be something different - so different, that when she deviates from it, she's viewed somewhere on the borderline between 'obsessed' and 'psychotic'.
It feels like this book has aged 30 years since I read it last time in 2016.
Update 9/16/2016Considering it's a 8-year old YA novel and how much YA has improved over these 8 years, I think it held up pretty well.
Maybe not 5 stars any more, but still worthy of a read.OriginallyThis is definitely one of those clever and sophisticated YA books that is a must-read for any teenage girl and adults as well.
Now, having read this novel second time, I am upgrading it to 5 stars.
Lockhart's best book to date and the one I expect to re-read over and over again.
the ones whose mothers don't need to worry about them rotting their brains on vampires and rainbow parties.the ones janis ian envied:"high school girls with clear skinned smiles who married young and then retired"i mean, it is published by disney, so i wasn't expecting smut and guts, but it's pretty precious and twee, qualities which usually give me the angers.reading the prologue, i thought i was going to hate it - all those cutesy perky wordplays - eventually you learn there is a reason for it, but that doesn't make it any less irritating.it is like the kid sister of special topics in calamity physics, a book i rather enjoyed, but i can totally understand other people's hatred of.
It's like saying, "I know I didn't tell you to watch out for other guys when we were dating, but you're kinda hot now so I thought I should let you know."While I commend Frankie for calling him on it, I can't say I agree with the way she handled it.
(i.e. Screaming and raising hell in a public place.) And then she goes on about being "proud" of herself.Frankie hadn't liked herself while she'd been yelling at Porter--but she had admired herself.How, exactly, can you feel both of those ways at once?
For all its braininess, this book feels very juvenile to me, except that girls in most middle grade books are rarely this boy-crazy--and few of them have so little else going on their lives.Here are some things that make it feel very young to me:--the story seems to be centered around a "caper" in which Frankie tries to infiltrate a secret boys club--three boys who don't recognize Frankie after her body develops (or pretend not to, anyway)--a full page about boogers--occasional overuse of exclamation points--and above all else, the writing styleWritten in the third person with an occasional interruption by some unknown narrator, it's all done in arch prose that strives very hard to be humorous and clever without being very smart.
April 2008:I'm not even done with it yet, but stop what you're doing and start reading this book.
If the 2nd half is 1/3 as good as the first half has been, it'll be one of favorite books of all time.
It's about the battle between good and evil in a teenage girl's soul.
Or is he just being nice?" It's all about the societal structures and roles that boys and girls participate in, both willfully and blindly, and how it keeps teenage girls down.
One of the best things I like about this book is that the protagonist is RATIONAL.
Frankie seems very conscious of the prestige, wealth, networking and tradition that goes with a stuffy school like Alabaster.
My favourite supporting characters were probably Trish (the cookie baking feminist who is not ashamed of liking goofy guys who treat her nice and staying away from loud drunken parties) and Zada (Frankie's sister in her first year of college, who decided to go to Berkeley instead of Harvard, breaking their father's heart).4.
A fantastic read--if I liked to write, it would be the kind of book I wish I'd written.
First of all, I agree with feminism and equal opportunities and all that, and I appreciate that this book had a "girl power" theme, but the main character was not a good representation of an admirable woman.
She was jealous that her boyfriend was in a secret all-male social club, and was somehow insulted that she wasn't invited and that he wouldn't tell her about it.
Frankie, it's a secret boys club!
Start your own secret girls club!
These are good questions to ask, but the problem I have is, I did not buy that Frankie was in love with Matthew at all, even though the book said she was.
It's a feminist novel, they said. It won a Printz-award, they said.What I say:   ***The synopsis should have set off sirens in my head.From the summary alone, what does this seem like? The story of a Mary Sue obsessed with herself. Oh, goody. *eye roll*In reality, this was a book about a girl who thinks she's better than the entire female population and spends the majority of her high school career trying to prove herself to guys.Now tell me, how is this in any way "feminist" (which the books se
If you ever wanted to read a book that tries extremely hard to be feminist but ends coming off as propaganda, then here it is in the form of a contemporary novel.I HATE being preached to.And this book does exactly that.Say goodbye to subtlety, because TDHoFLB (what an ugly acronym) employs any and all methods possible to shove its personal agenda across--that is, to portray the "ideal female." Forget girl friends, because Frankie is OBVIOUSLY smarter and more intelligent than them.
Go figure.There was absolutely nothing positive about this book, aside from the fact that it has a shiny sticker award that proves that it makes kids smarter.
Gah, I loved this book so incredibly much, but upon finishing I find myself so RILED UP and ANGRY on Frankie's behalf and I understand her frustrations so fully. The feminist themes in this story were executed with grace and keen wit, and it never felt preachy. I just wanted to reach in the book and hug Frankie and let her know that some day, people on Tumblr would totally understand what she's going through. Her struggles were so real and I just enjoyed it so immensely. Highly recommend.
I wanted to love this girl, for she initially sounded like someone I can strongly identify with, but I soon was proved wrong--Frankie got less likeable more and more throughout the book.
Anyways, Frankie soon starts stalking her boyfriend and decides that the only way she'll get into the Basset Hounds is to prove to the boys that she's way better than all of them.
Does that sound like a feminist novel to you?No, I didn't think so.And don't let me get started on how much the boys in this novel annoyed me.
Frankie is a sophomore at Alabaster, one of the nation's best preparatory schools, which is filled mostly with people who are white, protestant, and richer than God. Over the course of the summer she suddenly becomes hot, and catches the eye of Matthew Livingston, who is cute, and powerful, and rich, and funny.He also happens to be one of the Kings of Alabaster's secret (and all-male) Loyal Order of Basset Hounds.
Frankie knows, vaguely, about the Hounds - her father was one - but when she comes to realize that she'll always just be a girl in Matthew's social circle, there to be adorable but never powerful, always underestimated, always disposable, always erasable, she decides to mastermind the Basset Hounds' return to their former pranking glory.
While I loved this novel, Lockhart portrays Frankie as a "type." She is the "type" of girl who has been underestimated all her life, who has been lied to so that the perpetrators lying to her can feel in power and who has simply been excluded from the close-knit friend circle of the Basset Hounds, the secret society, which she so desperately craves.
She seeks recognition not just for her looks and smart comments, but for her superior intelligence and ability to do what she wants, even if the way is barred.She became the girlfriend of idolised Matthew Livingstone by falling off her bike, prompting him to gallantly come to her aid.
Or the moments of weakness when she wants to give up the power struggle and just seek love.One can identify with Frankie; her motives are good, which makes it hard to write the book off as complete nonsense.
This book has aged so well. I am continually impressed with this author's compelling story-lines and unforgettable characters, and this book is no exception. Frankie's feminist ideologies and consistent challenging of the patriarchy made this book have continual resonance and relevance today. Definitely one of the thematically strongest contemporary stories I have read.
Having heard so much good buzz about this book (and this author), I decided to check it out.
The writing style irritated me, as it was trying overly hard to be cutesy and funny, with lots of paragraphs reading like, "She thought ____.
Furthermore, I didn't even like any of the characters, and Frankie (the main character) was written as if she's supposed to be the smartest, wittiest kid around, and I just didn't get that.
I tried to keep reading, since it is a short book, but I had to put it down after realizing that I just didn't care what happened.
Don't think I'll be trying to read anything else by this author.
The first being that I didn’t read this when I was in high school (all girls school… the career man got very confused when I told him I wanted to be a doctor… you could almost see the cogs in his mind try and process the thought while trying to stop him blurting out ‘B-b-but you’re a girl!’) And the second being that I can’t driving around the UK with a wagon full of piles of this book handing copies out to teenage girls everywhere and spread the word of Miss Landau-Banks.
The main plot of this story revolves around Frankie attempting to infiltrate, control and overthrow the Loyal Order of the Basset Hounds, which is the secret all-male society that her boyfriend Matthew is a member of.
So does Frankie:Form her own super-secret all girl society?Have a heart to heart and angsty talk with her best friend or older sister about all the reasons why her relationship with Matthew isn’t all it’s cracked up to be?Talk with Matthew honestly and openly?Act like a 15 year old girl and rag Matthew about spending so much time with his friends?
Excellent read about a sassy, smart, and fearless young woman who is determined to be more than arm candy and uses her shrewd intellect to outsmart the boys.
Part grrrl power, part social commentary, AND equal parts wicked fun.
This is one of those books that I wish schools would use as part of the curriculum instead of Lord of the Flies.
Reading about Frankie subverting the power structure of an elite boarding is MUCH more interesting.
Essay question:What does it mean that once Frankie's crimes are revealed that it has little to do with her actions and more to do with her gender?
When you read a book that's written in this way and is well done too, you can't help but feel that you are reading about An Important Person, even if the story is a little less than satisfying.That said, the problems I had with this book are as follows:1.) I like highly intelligent female main characters.
This is a nice look at the conflicting desires of a teenage girl in her budding feminism, but I don't think Frankie is meant to be as complex a character.
Reading it anyway.Now that I'm finished:I feel like someone poured my head out into a book.
Possibly my favorite part of this entire thing is the ending (so, you know, spoilers), and how our loyal narrator does not let Ms. Landau-Banks off the hook.
You know what, when Alpha writes that last email to Frankie and says she's kind of mean, I love how Frankie doesn't even respond to that, she's too busy feeling chuffed by her accomplishments.
I also love her relationship with her roommate--could have easily been an ally, except that everyone wants something from you, you know?
Frankie Landau-Banks was such a breath of fresh air.
I absolutely loved her character and how she questioned literally everything about how boys and girls are treated in relationships and the real world.
I was living for the boarding school secret society shenanigans and how Frankie was holding a middle finger up to the patriarchy but in such a brilliant and untraceable way.
Every girl, teenage or otherwise, needs to get their hands on this book and enjoy witnessing a man's world get turned upside down by the most interesting female character I've read about yet.
Blame it on the tense.
(107)I do like several things about it however.
I just have a love-hate relationship with the narrative style.
All quite good actually.It's not Frankie that I dislike but the meddling narrator who likes to tell instead of show.*I'll qualify this statement.
People saying it's the best of the best, one of the year's must-reads.
But it's a good read.
But one of the things I found unbelievable was that Frankie's sister, Zada, took her under her wing.
She let Frankie sit with her and her junior and senior friends at lunch.
A story about a weak chick whose world revolves around what guys want her to do.
Frankie Landau-Banks, the main character, attends Alabaster Academy, a widely-known boarding school for the kids of influential and wealthy families.
In her sophomore year, she meets Matthew Livingston, who is a senior and part of a secret organization of the academy known as the Loyal Order of the Basset Hounds.
Along the way, you see Frankie stop every now and again to contemplate her actions and fight for change is needed.This book is flawlessly crafted, the dialog is perfectly balanced between witty, funny and heartfelt, the characters are flawed yet extremely likable, the setting is unique and the storyline is original.
Him and his friends are part of this secret society called The Loyal Order of the Basset Hounds, not that Frankie is supposed to know about this, but go with it, (she's like a spy with fashion sense!) Not only does Matthew not tell Frankie about his secret boys only club, but her tries to start bossing her around, which does not go down well with Frankie.
So next time i'm on the bus i'm going to talk to myself and not care that people think i'm crazy, i'll just be sticking it to the Man. Brilliant, one of the best books i've read this year.
She wants to prove that she’s good enough to be a part of it, even though it’s historically been an order of males.A healthy individual would either form her own female club, empower other females, or talk to Matthew about her concerns, but instead she stalks the guys for the entire book and plans on infiltrating their club.
I didn’t like Frankie and thought she had a whole heap of issues and I craved for them to be addressed in a healthy way.Having read and loved We Were Liars, I was surprised at how different The Disreputable History of Frankie Landau-Banks was.
