https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1272199.A_History_of_Philosophy_Vol_3

Keep in mind that Descartes was educated, for eight or nine years, at Le Fleche, a Jesuit boarding school, and would have been well-educated not only in Thomism, but also commentators on Thomas Aquinas and, naturally at the time, but in traditional Roman Catholic thought to guard against the encroachments of Protestantism.)This said, the volume is divided into three main parts: Ockham and the Ockhamist movement, Renaissance philosophy, and the Scholasticism of the Renaissance.
I would certainly say that Suarez, and most definitely the mystics, did not have the influence upon philosophy that Bacon exerted.
Reading the Jesuit priest Frederick Copleston's history of philosophy out of order.
This third volume covers the period from William of Ockham and the nominalist movement at the end of the Middle Ages through the Renaissance and the beginnings of the Scientific Revolution all the way to Francis Suarez in the wake of the Council of Trent.
Even though this was written originally for Catholic seminary students (and hence is biased to cover trends in Catholic philosophy: seriously, I have never seen so much attention paid to Suarez in any history of philosophy I've ever flipped through), it is probably the best history of philosophy out there.
Incredibly thorough and well-written.
With a few exceptions (e.g, Bacon, Machiavelli), it contains minute detail on relatively minor figures in between Aquinas and the Enlightenment.
In recounting the Renaissance, it arguably downplays the rift between Aristotelianism and Platonism and the confusions of Renaissance figures regarding which system was most consonant with their work and thought (for instance, Galileo mistakenly identified with Plato for complicated reasons).
Two of the best parts of the book are at the end.
Also, an overview of the first three volumes at this volume's end is useful (if incomplete--e.g., Augustine is omitted).
فقط یک پیشنهاد. قبل از خوندن فلسفه یا تاریخ فلسفه قرون وسطی سعی کنید یک مطالعه مقدماتی در کلام و الهیات مسیحی داشته باشید، چون فلسفه این دوره از  کلام مسیحی تأثیر زیادی گرفته. در این جلد و جلد قبلی همین کتاب هم خواسته یا ناخواسته این اتفاق افتاده و مسائل کلامی مسیحیت مطرح شدهمن خودم به همین دلیل برخی از مطالب رو کامل متوجه نشدم
See reviews of parts 1-2 for criticisms. However, if one wants a deep dive into the intellectual history of the west, one could do no better.
This was a long slog through medieval philosophy which did not appeal to me as much as volumes I & II.
I really enjoyed his elucidation on the Philosophy of William Ockham. Might be one of my favorite philosophers now next to David Hume, Bertrand Russell, and Ludwig Wittgenstein.
A very compendious, but very efficient historical narrative.
