https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/338586.Tarzan_the_Invincible
I thought this was a fun one! Some of the later Tarzan books that I've read recently hadn't really held my interest, but this one, like many of the earlier books in the series, was fun, fast-paced, and full of adventure.
We're attacking Opar to get the riches, oops, our men are afraid and run away, so we'll go back to base camp.
Now we're going to try to institute our big plan to start a war between Italy and France, but boy, we'd sure like that gold....Once again parts of the book had the feel of being written by a much different hand....Did Burroughs employ interns a la Patterson?Not as much fun as some of the others.
It tried to work on the whole communist/socialist/capitalist thing, but half heartedly.Once again Tarzan is getting koshed on the head and even gets grazed by a bullet on his noggin!
This is another fun Tarzan adventures in which he encounters communists in his jungle domain who are bent on embroiling the world into another World War. No mention of Jane, but there is enough romance between likeable characters as there are enough violence and justice dished out from the hand of Tarzan upon the not-so-likeable ones. Highly recommended for those who want to escape into larger-than-life adventures and to live vicariously through Tarzan as he swings through the trees and proves himself lord of the jungle!
Tarzan story # 14. This story brings back a number of friends Tarzan has made in the past; Annoying yet adorable Nkima, The Ferocious Jad-bal-Ja, Faithful friend Tantor, The fiercely devoted Waziri, and the Lovely La. Tarzan pays a visit or two to Opar AND thwarts the plans of yet another power hungry white man. Don't know who any of those characters are? Maybe it's time you pay the world of Tarzan's African jungle a visit! :)
Tarzan foils the plans of an international group of Communists plotting to sow discord in colonial Africa. However the Russian leader of the group is secretly trying to set himself up as Emperor of all Africa, one of many sub-plots.Burroughs brings back some characters from past volumes: La, High Priestess of Opar, Jad-Bal-Ja the lion, and Nkima the monkey. Still great fun!
Tarzan foils the plots of those dirty reds.
Tarzan has returned from Pelucidar to find ‘another’ group of white men encroaching on his terrain.
They say their purpose is to improve the lot of the common man through Socialism and bring down the capitalist dogs, but they’re headed for the mines of Opar.These stories have so many different groups who keep running around all over that they get confusing.Footnote: 1) I love the loyalty and personality of both Nkima the monkey and Jad-bal-ja the lion.
Obviously, Nkima was changed to Cheeta in the movies.Fave scenes: any scenes with Jad-bal-ja, Colt’s farewell to Nao, Tantor guarding Zora and Tarzan catching up to La.
This one was a breath of fresh air in what I refer to as the stale Janeless generic Tarzan books.
A group of very bad men and a girl conspiring to rob Opar, with their own evil and ambitious infighting helping Tarzan almost as much as his beasts and Waziri.
Although not quite as much fun as that book, this one is still better than average--we thankfully have the return of Nkima at his most Nikima, Jad-bal-ja, and Tantor, and, not so thankfully, La and the evil priests of Opar, my least favorite element in the Tarzan series.
Read back in the mid-1960's. Tarzan is now defending Opar and saving Africa from a Communist takeover.
Tarzan rushes to Opar to warn La, priestess of the Flaming God, who, young as ever, still loves him deeply, only to find her missing, and to be taken prisoner.In this novel we learn that there are three types of communists: the (rare) crazed ideologue; the opportunist, selfish and cowardly, who seeks personal power and wealth (the most common sort); and the brave noble idealist who, disillusioned, turns from the cause with disgust once he or she discovers the truth.
I have read all 24 of the Tarzan books. Read dates are from the mid 1970s through 1982. I thoroughly enjoyed all of the Tarzan books. They made a great escape from high school and college. I still have all 24 books and they are at the top of my book shelf. I thought it was pretty neat to find the actual covers listed on Goodreads and there are no barcodes on the books, plus the cover price ranged from $1.50-1.95 for each book.
This one is a pretty typical Tarzan book - with a bunch of white people getting into trouble in the jungle and Tarzan watching over them. It was good to see La again, though. It's a good thing Tarzan is so noble or Jane would have something to worry about there.
Tarzan the Invincible (Tarzan #14) by Edgar Rice Burroughs (Ballantine Books 1930) (Fiction). Tarzan, Nkima, Muviro, and the Waziri prevent Soviet communists from looting Opar. My rating: 7/10, finished 1973.
Back to Opar.
read some time in 1980
A VERY WORTHWHILE read!
Tarzan Book 14
read some time in 1980
