https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/29243722-the-forgetting-time
If you are at all interested in reincarnation you MUST read this book, or If you just like a well written mystery you should think about reading this book!
I couldn't get enough of it!Noah is a four year old giving his single mother, Janie, a very hard time.
She comes upon Dr. Jerome Anderson from Connecticut.
Dr. Anderson has a form of dementia and is still reeling from the death of his wife.
Every character in this book is fleshed out and real.
I think this will stay with me for a very long time.I listened to the audio version.
"But surely we all carried some little piece of each other inside of us.
So what did it matter, whether the memories belonging to her boy existed inside this other one?
When things reach a critical point at preschool, Janie is forced to seek professional help for her son.Dr. Anderson is a former professor of psychiatry and has spent his life documenting paranormal phenomena.
Dr. Anderson decides to devote himself to finishing his book.Janie seeks out Dr. Anderson in a final attempt to find answers for her son.
Noah's case becomes the all important U.S. case that will help him complete his book.
3.5 stars   Reincarnation is a Latin word, meaning "entering the flesh again."  The forgetting Time is an interesting and throught provoking novel exploring the idea of reincarnation and is also a mystery surrounding the disappearance of a child. I picked up this novel on audio as was looking for something interesting to listen to and while I prefer Non-Fiction on Audio I was intrigued by the idea of reincarnation as brought up a Catholic reincarnation was a idea which I remember discussing in
How things have changed in today's religion classes as religion classes in school explore and discuss all different religions and young people have a better understanding of each other faith and beliefs.While this is a fiction story it is well presented and the ideas explored certainly gave food for thought.I kept thinking how would I deal with the situation presented to Janie and her young son Noah, would I have accepted the doctors diagnosis or took the road that Janie travelled.
However one thing annoyed me in the story was the term " Mommy Mom" (thats just my silly niggle).An interesting and thought provoking book.
I was drawn to this book the moment I saw it on my coworker's desk and it didn't disappoint. Such a page turner, I enjoyed this book thoroughly! You know you're reading a great book when you hide from your toddlers to finish a chapter or two :) A book anyone especially a mom can relate to, what lengths would you go to to help your child? A heart warming story and a journey you'll feel you're a part of all the way with a delightful outcome :)
★★★We've all heard the term "old souls", the youthful who are wise beyond their years. The ones who seem to have been through life's journey a time or two already. Have they?The Forgetting Time is Sharon Guskin's debut novel and she was inspired to write it while working as a hospice volunteer which allowed for several discussions about what happens after death. Thomas Shroder's nonfiction book: Old Souls: Compelling Evidence From Children Who Remember Past Lives came into the equation which spa
Have they?The Forgetting Time is Sharon Guskin's debut novel and she was inspired to write it while working as a hospice volunteer which allowed for several discussions about what happens after death.
Thomas Shroder's nonfiction book: Old Souls: Compelling Evidence From Children Who Remember Past Lives came into the equation which sparked that many more questions and discussions.
The Forgetting Time is a fictional story about a young boy Noah who experiences episodes of trauma, confusion, and homesickness over a life that is not his.
That's what people said, as if life really mattered because it happened only one time.
The love that you withhold is the pain that you carry lifetime after lifetime.”  ----Alex CollierSharon Guskin, an American author, pens her debut book, The Forgetting Time that narrates the story of a four year old boy who constantly asks his single mother to take him to his real mother after his nightmares.
For his mother, the boy seems like making up imaginary stories, until when things get serious in his pre-school, she thinks that there is something terribly wrong with his little boy and she fears that she might lose her son to someone else when a doctor enters their lives.Synopsis: Noah is four and wants to go home.
That’s what people said, as if life really mattered because it happened only one time.
Suffice it to say, I spend an inordinate amount of time trying to figure out if Avedon is in my puppy.Why do some people believe ESP inherently more likely than that some fragment of consciousness might continue in some fashion after death?
The writing annoyed the hell out of me, mired in metaphor, too many forced phrases (‘the gas lamp flickered in the wet March mess like a beacon of far off sanity’) and I kept stumbling over these tortured sentences which took me out of the story and that really bugs me, but it’s my book club’s selection and damned if I wasn’t going to finish it.
Sir Winston ChurchillSharon Guskin's debut novel The Forgetting Time is a layered, multi-faceted exploration of motherhood, loss, the impermanence of death and the mutability of consciousness.
Janie conceives her son Noah during a brief interlude of mindless passion with a man whose last name she forgets to ask for.
Perhaps worst of all are the daily moments he looks into Janie's eyes—his mother, the woman he calls Mommy-Mom—and asks her, "Is my other mother coming soon?
In clear, evocative and intimate prose, through characters so rich with life and feeling, Guskin presents a wholly original take on the possibility of reincarnation.
From the blurbs/reviews, I was expecting a creative quirky story about time and human memory via a fantastical tale of reincarnation. Alas, it was not to be: The Forgetting Time is a mediocre book that does far too much "telling" and is in no way inventive in its structure or the ideas presented. Not only that, but instead of treating reincarnation as a fantastical/mythical allegory, Guskin seems to actually take reincarnation seriously as "science", quoting at length from  Life Before Life: A S
Basically, half the book is Guskin describing the feelings of her characters.
So, Guskin's characters, always caught up in a desperate, overwhelming, very needy whirlwind of emotions, did not appeal to me at all.I am giving this book 2 stars instead of 1, because I do see why it may have broad appeal, especially to grieving (or non-grieving) mothers.
I can see myself, in that situation, crying through every page at the excruciating detail of other mothers' grief, and I can also see this book working to help me feel a little bit less alone.
It's a bit like a mystery as you try to solve the puzzle of a child's unusual first years of life.
The story intertwines with a doctor nearing the end of his career due to a deadly diagnosis and who could be the only one who could make Noah and his mother's life better.
What Noah is suffering from is beyond what any parent could comprehend.
Beautiful from start to finish, never a lag, and a lot of food for thought- I guarantee this will be in my top ten this year!
I read this book for work, and it's so far outside my comfort zone that I allocated it into my commute reading time, figuring it would be pretty disposable and forgettable.
I didn't come out of the book convinced one iota in the possibility of reincarnation, but it is a fantastic (in the adjective sense) "what if" scenario that is truly captivating.In the ARC I read, the chapters are occasionally broken up by short extracts from case studies about reincarnation.
I kept expecting the author of that book to come into the narrative of the novel.
Noah is four years old and he's been telling his mother Janie, he wants to go home and wants his other mother.
After a one night stand while on holiday in Trinidad 39 year old Janie finds herself pregnant and has baby Noah at home in New York.
His book on reincarnation is a study of cases from around the world involving youngsters and his publicist suggests he needs one strong American case to make it ready and complete for publication.
The author writes this exceptionally well and interlaces chapters with snippets of cases from a book 'Life Before Life' all adding to the mystery.
Though I liked the premise here, I really struggled with the audio.
The story itself lost steam at some point after the middle, but that point was where I connected most with it.
I almost stopped listening through much of the beginning as the audio voice was very distracting for me and I felt like the beginning dragged on in a vague manner that didn't hold my interest.
Also, I fully expected the book to end with (view spoiler)[Dr. Anderson being reincarnated into another body.
Maybe that would have been too hokey, but I found the ending as it was unsatisfying (hide spoiler)].
Because The Forgetting Time was a free book from Goodreads, I felt obligated to read it.
It felt real!A four year old boy is the inexorable link between three disparate individuals enduring some extraordinarily difficult and very personal challenges in their lives.Janie Zimmerman turned thirty-nine in February on the second to last night of her vacation to Trinidad.
Janie returned to alone from nowhere.Denise Crawford lives with her fifteen year old son Charlie on Ashville Road outside Dayton, OH.
Noah is the love of Janie’s life, a product of her passion in Trinidad, an extraordinary four year old boy.
Desperate, Jane finds psychiatrist Dr. Anderson, who has for years been studying and collecting data for his book on little children who temporarily recall past lives.
The author has made a good effort here, incorporating parts of a nonfiction book "Return to Life: Extraordinary Cases of Children Who Remember Past Lives" by Dr. Tucker, which add some heft to the premise of her other-worldly story.
Her fictional doctor, Jerome Anderson, is ironically losing his capacity to remember language while he rushes to complete his book on past life memories.
A totally new premise or at least one that I have not read before- the main character, a young boy, has lived a previous life and wants to return to that life.
OK…I know what you are thinking right about now…."Not interested, not the book for me”.
By the end of the first 25 pages I was totally hooked.
The book moved at just the appropriate pace, providing enough but not too much detail.
The author’s ending was satisfying and provided the reader with a level of closure.
All in all a highly enjoyable title readers will thoroughly enjoy!
Here's another fabulous debut! Janie, a young single mother, is used to her young son being difficult, but when his preschool calls and tells her she has to come there immediately, everything changes. Jerome is a brilliant scientist obsessed with what happens to us after we die and the possibility of life after death. When Jerome meets Noah, he thinks he has found the key. I don't want to spoil anything, so I'll just tell you that The Forgetting Time is an intense page-turner!Tune in to our weekly podcast dedicated to all things new books, All The Books: http://bookriot.com/category/all-the-...
I rarely give books a 5 star rating.
When I do, it is a sure bet it will be a few days before I start another book.
It is going to take me a few days to process all that occurred in the story.
After just a few pages into this book, I was keenly aware what a special book this was going to be.
The Forgetting Time has such a unique plot that tackles a subject matter that I find fascinating.
Is there life after death?
The author does a superb job developing the characters and creating a page turning story!
There are elements of a murder mystery, aging, death, rebirth, science, family relationships…there are a lot of things that feel like they shouldn’t work together to make a compelling and readable story, but they do.
I read The Forgetting Time in a couple of sittings and even though I’ve now finished it, I can’t get it out of my mind.
This is very much like her character of Noah who has unexplainable knowledge about things he’s never heard about and believes he has another mum and a ‘real’ home.
The Forgetting Time is unlike anything I’ve ever read before.
When the school gets involved, Janie knows that something more must be done to help her child.Jerome Anderson is a psychology professor who has been diagnosed with aphasia and is gradually losing words and his understanding of language.
Noah may be the child whose memories can help Jerry finish his work.This is a book for everyone, no matter what your beliefs may be regarding any type of afterlife.
This fictional novel is very believable and contains quotes telling of actual case histories of children with memories of previous lives from the book “Life Before Life” by Dr. Jim Tucker.This is Sharon Guskin’s first novel and it’s obvious that she’ll have quite a career ahead of her.
Sharon Guskin  delivers a spellbinding debut THE FORGETTING TIME —a reincarnated spirit of a murdered child –A psychological mystery, with a paranormal/literary twist-- can a piece of us be carried inside someone else?
Soon Noah, Janie, and Anderson  will find themselves on a journey--knocking on the door of a mother whose son has been missing for eight years - and when that door opens, all of their questions will be answered.
The belief in past lives and the use of perceptions and knowledge of these to help with one's current life is central to the New Age movement.
You will fall in love with Noah and the desperate need of Dr. Anderson.
The school give Janie an ultimatum: get Noah professional help or social services will be contacted.Desperate for help Janie’s search leads her to Dr Anderson – a man who’s seen cases like Noah’s before, but Dr Anderson’s diagnosis is not a simple one to get on board with because Dr Anderson believes that Noah could be the reincarnation of a murdered child from years before.Janie doesn’t know what to believe but she will do anything if it means helping her son and so Janie, Noah and Dr Anderson embark on a journey that will lead them to answer humanities biggest question, is there life after death?I think that your enjoyment of this book really depends on how open minded you’re willing to be on the topic of reincarnation.
Heads up, this is a great deal if you have on your TBR listFour year old Noah has terrifying nightmares with deafening screams, he cries telling his mom that he wants to go home and wants his mama.
Janie is a successful architect, a single mom who struggles with the fact that her son Noah has memories from a previous life which didn't include her.
One of the most fascinating and beautifully written books I've read this year, it was both thought provoking and an emotional read for me.
I enjoyed the interjections of real life stories of reincarnation.
This book kept my interest enough that I read it in one sitting and finished it at 1:30 in the morning---way past my bedtime!
Like Lisa Genova's Still Alice, which informed the reader about early onset Alzheimer's, The Forgetting Time is a fictional exploration of the concept of reincarnation, its history and possible impact on one family.
The author did a great job of telling the story of four-year-old Noah, who had memories of another life and a strong need to return to his 'real' family.
This isn't a book for everyone, but I enjoyed it and learned a little more about the concept of reincarnation.
3.5 StarsThis was definitely an interesting book that made you wonder what you would do if you were in the same situation.
I've never believed in reincarnation, and this book didn't change my view on the matter.
Although it sounds a little messed up to say, I was disappointed in the (view spoiler)[way Tommy died.
I thought it would have been more interesting if the story line had followed the possibility of him being murdered by a serial killer.
Maybe that's just because I like serial killer stories.
#imaweirdo (hide spoiler)]

3,5 en realidad. Original sin duda.Mi reseña completa: http://perdida-entrelibross.blogspot....
This book explores actually remembering that previous life and not being able to let it go.The Forgetting Time is the story of Noah, a young boy, who seems to be reliving a previous life and trauma.
His mother, Janie, is at a loss as to what to do until she reads about a psychiatrist, Dr. Anderson, who is a researcher of reincarnation and who has made it his mission to explore these past lives.
Tucker’s book “ Life Before Life” which depicts real life cases of children remembering previous lives.This book explores motherhood, and how far a mother will go to help her child.
The only trouble is he's already home.The Forgetting Time by Sharon Guskin is the story of Noah and his Mum Janie.
Noah has nightmares, begs Janie for his real mother and keeps asking when he can go home.
At times I felt The Forgetting Time was written especially for me!Sharon Guskin has clearly done her research and I knew I was in expert hands.
I got so much more out of The Forgetting Time than I thought possible.I can't wait to see what she writes next and I have no doubt she'll be my favourite debut author of 2016.Awesome, amazing, I loved loved loved it!* Copy courtesy of Pan Macmillan Australia *
What a dumb book.
For some reason, I thought this was going to be more of a thriller.
Instead, I feel like the author tried to ram the idea of reincarnation down my throat and make me feel all warm and cozy about it.
The characters are one-dimensional and irritating, the plot is disjointed and disorganized, and the writing is sophomoric.
I cannot understand why this book has any good reviews.
I kept reading because I thought the idea behind the book sounded interesting.
Surely it was going to get better?
Unfortunately, the author mutilated it.
Don't waste your time.
