https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1906494.King_of_the_Golden_City
Don't be fooled by the fact that this book is for children. Or by the fact that it was written in 1921. It is BEAUTIFUL. It's an allegory of the interior life, told as a fairy tale about a little girl's relationship with the King and how He and her Prince Guardian teach her to know and love Him during her journey towards the Golden City. It is truly lovely and will be full of meaning for both kids and parents.
If you didn't read this as a kid, you should read it as an adult---and read it to your own kids.
An allegorical tale about our spiritual journey/relationship with Christ.
Can be read on many levels.
I first used it in my daughters' preparations for their First Communions.
Reread this time for my own spiritual benefit.
Although King of the Golden City can be read by children, I think it is more beneficial for adults.
Or am I still such a spiritual child?
Hmmmmm....?
Best parts are the discussions on dealing with 'Self' and feelings.
Rather I will say, if you are looking for a quick spiritual work-out which you will spend the rest of your life working on, you couldn't go wrong with this one.
I’m glad I read this book, but I’ll be honest: it wasn’t my favorite read. (Hence the 4 stars. That’s more a reflection of “what Sarah doesn’t so much care for” as anything else.)When I started reading it aloud to my kids in a pinched moment at Adoration last week (I hadn’t intended to, honestly), I had a glimpse of the brilliance of this book. I plan to revisit it with them and see how that changes my opinion of it.
This book was a childhood favorite and rereading it I realize why. If you are a Catholic, (or even a Christian) this book is a must read.It is a beautifully brilliant analogy paralleling the lives of its readers will the story of young Floss. She learns what she must do to please her King and one day to enter his Golden City.It is directed towards a young audience (6-8) but I really enjoyed it rereading it at 16 and I am sure adult readers could cherish it as well.
What a great book for young people (and old) to help them learn about growing in holiness. Truly a perfect gift for First Communion (I like the edition with pictures).
JV read it with me this time. I read it to the boys when they were young, then Z read it with me. This is a beautiful allegory. All children should read it.
