https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/18111281-a-long-way-home
There was no choice to the matter, hunger was simply a fact of life, like the searing heat and the constantly buzzing flies.”Looking up to his older brother, five year-old Saroo decides to go with Guddu one night.
All a far cry from a five year-old boy, in Calcutta, with no money, no family and no idea of where he is or how to find his way home.He tries.
They opened their hearts a second time, a few years later, to adopt a brother for Saroo, a second son for them, named Mantash.
وقتى شروع كردم اين كتاب رو ترجمه كنم، میدونستم به علت موضوع قطعن كار سختيه. تمام حدودن پنجاهوچند روزى كه كتاب رو ترجمه و بعد نمونهخوانى كردم، با لحظههايى كه سارو درد میكشيد، درد میكشيدم. همه افرادى كه ترجمه مىکنن (بهخصوص وسواسىها) مىدونن كه مكث كردن روى تكتك جملهها، باعث میشه كه دوبرابر حالات نويسنده رو درك كنى. من اين كتاب رو فقط براى اون حرفى كه داره واضح میزنه دوست ندارم، كتاب پُشتش پُر از حرف و فلسفه دربارهى زندگى آدمهاست؛ اينكه بچه دار شدن چقدر مسئوليت مهميه و بعضى از افراد اصلن به اين قضيه
تمام حدودن پنجاه‌وچند روزى كه كتاب ‌رو ترجمه و بعد نمونه‌خوانى كردم، با لحظه‌هايى كه سارو درد می‌كشيد، درد می‌كشيدم.
من اين كتاب ‌رو فقط براى اون حرفى كه داره واضح می‌زنه دوست ندارم، كتاب پُشتش پُر از حرف و فلسفه درباره‌ى زندگى آدم‌هاست؛ اينكه بچه دار شدن چقدر مسئوليت مهميه و بعضى از افراد اصلن به اين قضيه توجه نمی‌كنن و فقط كوركورانه بچه‌دار می‌شن...
اينكه چقدر خوب می‌شه اگه قبل تصميم گرفتن به عواقب كارمون فكر كنيم.
Saroo (he doesn’t know his last name) is five, gets lost in Calcutta (as Kolkata was then known), is eventually adopted by Aussies in Tasmania, and rediscovers his birth family using Google maps.
I can’t say they are “neglected”, because that makes it sound as if there’s a choice that they wouldn’t be.Saroo’s mother (dad left with a surprise second wife) works carrying stones on her head for construction sites, leaving 5-year-old Saroo at home to mind his even younger little sister while two older brothers beg and scavenge for food.
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lion_(2...The Wikipedia article about Larry Buttrose has a nice story about how he worked on the book.
Find all of my reviews at: http://52bookminimum.blogspot.com/A Long Way Home will probably end up as a selection on all the lists featuring inspirational stories and here I go giving it a 2 Star. What can I say????? The first sign that this probably wasn't going to be a great book is the fact that the blurb wasn't even a blurb, but rather the opening pages of the story. That should have served as my warning, but I was all about reading errrrrry book that went from “Read to Reel” and I didn’t eve
The first sign that this probably wasn't going to be a great book is the fact that the blurb wasn't even a blurb, but rather the opening pages of the story.
A Long Way Home is about a boy named Saroo, who at five years old becomes lost from his family and winds up on the other side of India.
It’s quite clear immediately that Saroo Brierley is no writer (and if I’m calling it out, you know it must be bad) and the fact that he was only five years old when he became lost meant hardly any details of his story were remembered.
And it is the most amazing story ever, of this five-year-old boy, born in extreme poverty in central India, who under calamitous and traumatic circumstances got lost at a train station and landed in an an orphanage, two thousand kilometers away from home, was adopted by Australian parents and decided 20 years later to find his family, even though he had the names of towns all wrong (almost right), and even pronounced his own name incorrectly.
And he was worried that his older brother, who at fourteen years old, was the head of the family with many responsibilities, was still looking for him, after Saroo was left at the train station that night to wait on his brother.
Destino ou Acidente ?A Vida tem daqueles Dias que só nos permitem satisfazer os caprichos de Sua Majestade, El Rei D.
Inesperado.Ora foi num desses Dias que Saroo, um jovem com apenas 5 anos de idade, se perdeu do seu irmão mais velho, numa estação de comboios.Desorientado, sem a ínfima ideia de como regressar a casa, enfia-se num comboio, em busca de Salvação.
Porém, a ansiada Salvação não chega, e em alternativa, após longas horas de viagem, Saroo vê-se despejado nas ruas de Calcutá!
Life is looking very bleak for, Saroo and he worries if he'll ever see his family again.After being in an orphanage for some time, Saroo's life takes a turn for the better after being adopted by an Australian couple who take him to live in his new home in Hobart, Tasmania.
His adoptive parents are wonderful and loving people who do all they can to make Saroo feel at home.
Even though Saroo has settled in very well with his adoptive parents he still thinks about he's family back in India.
Will Saroo ever see his family again?What a remarkable story about never giving up.
A Long Way Home is Saroo Brierley's personal account of finding himself tragically lost from his family at the young age of 5 years old.
Despite my thoughts about the astonishing facts, I have mixed feelings about this reading experience.
Regardless, A Long Way Home is a story to be heard and I don't regret reading it.My favorite quote:"Today there are perhaps a hundred thousand homeless kids in Kolkata, and a good many of them die before they reach adulthood ...
Saroo's search for his home 20 years later.The first story is horrifying when you think about all the ways that his story could have ended differently.
Not only that he managed to find a needle in a haystack on Google Earth, but that his mother had made the decision to stay in the same neighbourhood for 20+ years on the off chance that her son found his way home again.
Although I think I'll hold off until I can watch it in the comfort of my own home with a very large box of tissues and no one to judge me for sobbing periodically...
I do feel conflicted regarding the way he wrote this memoir; I enjoyed it because it was comprehensive, detailed and logical but I kind of wish he wrote with more emotion.
Also something that kind of irked me was the fact that in the book, Saroo says he tells his dad & mom at different times and in person that he found his old hometown but in the 60 minute show (I watched that after I read this) it was said that he texted them in the middle of the night.
Saroo himself experienced the terrors and the bewilderment of finding himself in the wrong place at the wrong time locked into a car on a train that ended up far from his home.
Saroo has nothing but love and respect in his tone and writing about his adoptive family.
Of his trip where he travels the train line he believes took him from his home, and visits the places that impacted him at age 5 in the city that was then known as Calcutta, Saroo Brierly says, 
Saroo was only five years old when he followed his older brother (himself only 14) to work along the train stations not far from his home.
As Saroo fell asleep on a platform bench, Guddu his brother told him, “Just sit down, and don’t move.
I’ll come back in a little while.” Waking up hours later to a dark, deserted platform, Saroo’s not certain why he stepped onto the empty train car standing before him.
The circumstances that would then put him alone, more than 1600 kilometers from home and family, are tragic and incredible, but the story of his survival, the intervening 25 years with a new family, and the eventual finding of home again, are inspirational.I watched the movie 
I can greatly understand Saroo's quest to go and meet his birth Mother after all those years.I also think it is grand that he is able to share his love with his adoptive parents, and his birth Mother and maintain those relationships to a level that all are comfortable and happy with.
I think when you are adopted, you always wonder where you "Came from" Even though you love your adoptive parents to the moon and back, there is always this hole, that can never be filled.
In this case, Saroo made the right decision to discover his roots again and to get answers to unanswered questions that had been gnawing away at him for 25 years.
Great story wrapped in a short book. It details the treacherous journey of not only a 5 year old as he leaves his home in India, but also the exhausting journey of a 30 year old as he finds his way back to that home.Written as a memoir, this starts as a heart breaking story. It is easy to read, but gripping in detail and frustrating in fact. It has become the 2017 Oscar nominated movie - Lions.4.25 stars
داستان واقعی یک پسر هندی به اسم سارو است که در پنجسالگی توی ایستگاه قطار برادرش را گم میکند. به صورت اتفاقی توی یک قطار گیر میافتد و به شهر دیگری میرود. مدتی در خیابان زندگی میکند و با کمک یک خانواده به یتیمخانه میرود. یک زوج استرالیایی فرزندخواندگیاش را به عهده میگیرند و او را به استرالیا میبرند. بعد از ۲۶ سال سارو موفق میشود آدرس خانوادهاش را در هند پیدا کند.پ.ن: اولین بار بود که یک کتاب طولانی انگلیسی زبان میخواندم و به همین دلیل خواندنش خیلی طول کشید. احتمالا جزئیاتی را هم به خاطر زبان ضعیفم
داستان واقعی یک پسر هندی به اسم سارو است که در پنج‌سالگی توی ایستگاه قطار برادرش را گم می‌کند.
بعد از ۲۶ سال سارو موفق می‌شود آدرس خانواده‌اش را در هند پیدا کند.پ.ن: اولین بار بود که یک کتاب طولانی انگلیسی زبان می‌خواندم و به همین دلیل خواندنش خیلی طول کشید.
وقتی می‌خواستیم برگردیم، «کتاب ببر سفید» را که با خودم به این سفر آورده بودم تمام کردم و نگران بودم توی مسیر برگشت که قرار بود کلی توی فرودگاه علاف شویم، چیزی برای خواندن نداشته باشم.
این کتاب را توی فرودگاه بمبئی پیدا کردم.
Their two older brothers would try to find food, working for a few rupee in hopes of buying enough for a meal.The night Saroo’s life began its dramatic and dangerous turn, he had gone with his oldest brother on the pushbike, and was told to wait at the train station for him.
The next few weeks were terrifying, lonely and intensely dangerous as he lived on the streets with only his wits to help him, but finally the kindness of a stranger turned his life around.
Beautiful, poignant memoir!
It is amazing to me that he managed to survive those weeks on the streets of Culcutta, being so severely separated from his family, and then managed to find his way back years later equipped with Google Earth and a few childhood memories.
The ending of the story is so heartwarming and honestly amazing, but also so sad (view spoiler)[I absolutely share Saroo's feelings about Guddu.
This is such a genuinely amazing true story, proving that fact is sometimes stranger then fiction, and I really think people should either read this or watch the movie which is INCREDIBLY similar to the book (and also has some really beautiful cinematography and stars my main man Dev Patel)
3.5/5 ~ Very strong and powerful story, but the execution wasn’t one of my favorites. Shortly after I saw the movie, that hit me right in the feels.The book is still a good add of this incredible journey. I very enjoyed the first half (young Saroo memories), while I struggled a little to get through the second half (adult Saroo).
With a vague notion of his way home, Saroo attempts to go back but instead winds up getting adopted and going to live to Australia.
This is his real life journey.Wow, going by the description of the book, one would think this is a work of fiction.
Saroo, lives on the streets of India for a few weeks and through a series of experiences winds up on an adoption list.
Prior to starting reading this work, I had no idea that the movie Lion was based on this book (will certainly be looking for the film adaptation).
It is NOT often that I say this, but-- I actually cannot wait to watch the film version of this (yes, I know it was nominated for the Oscar) because I think it will make a better film than book! Blasphemy, I know! Perhaps, if the protagonist were an actual author instead of just a normal guy trying to write his incredible story I would not feel this way....but, the book left me wanting better details/descriptions/emotions and I think the film will be great. --Jen from Quebec :0)
But from the part he starts his search for his home, this story becomes a little overwhelming, too much explaining specially after he has finished his journey and found his family, still so much talking about which train he had 25 years ago, exactly which way he went and so...And I really didn’t understand his insistence on that he doesn’t believe in any religion and he doesn’t want to relate what happened to him and his family to a higher power; like someone had accused him that he is doing so and he hates it!
Totally a feel-good story. I find it flipping amazing that 5-year old Saroo somehow managed to avoid any number of horrible situations while homeless and alone in Kolkata. To be adopted by a family in Australia truly was fortuitous.
تو صفحه اول کتاب وقتی همراه سارو جلوی در اون خونه ایستاده بودم، حس میکردم فقط با خوندن همین صفحه تک تک سلولهام و سرتاسر روحم غرق احساسه...تمام وجودم می لرزید از شدت هیجان و احساس تو اون لحظه...حتی فکرشم نمیکردم... صفحات کافیه یکم جلوتر برن تا من چندین برابر بیشتر از تمام حسی که تو صفحات اول تجربه کردم بودم رو احساس کنم...سرتاسر این کتاب حس کردنه...ذره ذره با با تمام وجودت سارو شدنه...عمق چیزی که من با این کتاب حس کردم با کلمات قابل بیان نیست...خوندن این کتاب برابره با زندگی کردن به جای سارو... س
سارو تو سی سالگی وقتی معنای زندگیش پیدا کردن دوباره مادر و خواهر و برادراش بود...دو تا شخصیت توی این کتاب واقعا خاص بودن لوسی و کاملا...
دو تا زنی که مادرای زندگی سارو بودن...کاملا که من نمیتونم عمق احترامم رو برای همچین مادری با هیچ کلامی بیان کنم...
و شاید در حال حاضر هزاران هزار مادر تو دنیا دارن درست مثل کاملا برای بچه‌هاشون تلاش می‌کنن...و همین‌طور سو...
زنی که مادر دومی برای سارو میشه...
مادر بودن فقط به معنی این نیست که فقط یه بچه رو متولد کنی...
این کتاب شاید امیدی باشه برای خیلی از بچه‌های گمشده تو دنیا...
This story was amazing and what's more IS it's not a work of fiction, it's TRUE!
I have a strong love for non-fiction when stories like this come across as 'one in a million' chances!I'm sure everyone has mucked around with Google Earth at some point in their life?
From India to Tasmania,Australia this is a true story worth picking up!
Then the story catches up to the now and how he uses Google Earth to track down things he remembers from his fuzzy childhood memories.There was a few things I thought could of been left out as it kinda prolonged things but it didn't bother me that much.
But some escape it.Saroo Brierley was adopted from an Indian orphanage by a Tasmania couple eager for children.
After a normal Western world upbringing, he was sent to college by his adoptive parents, after which he worked for his father as a salesman selling pipes and hardware.Saroo was haunted by what he remembered of his earlier life and his Indian family, which consisted of his Hindu mother and three siblings.
Unlike most orphans, Saroo thought his original family must still be alive somewhere in India.
Ending up in Calcutta, India, perhaps only five years old, Saroo lived alone on the streets for several months.
An amazing story and a bit mind boggling really when you think about everything that happened to Saroo (I had a suspicion about what had happened to his brother).
very lucky he was.The writing was so-so, not everyone is a natural writer (which is fine, we all have our strengths) though *shrugs* It didn't bring the experience down for me but I didn't enjoy it like I thought I would.
It almost felt like reading a long news article in a way.
Near the end pages, I had to push myself finish it.Still interested in watching the movie one day.Story: 4 starsWriting: 2 stars
I really liked the first quarter of the book when he recollected his experiences as a boy in India.
But reading about his obsessive search for his family for over 100 pages was awful--he did all of his searching on google maps.
So he told about how he spent hours every evening scouring all of India for a familiar landmark.
Then reading about how he felt about everything for another 50 pages was not fun, so I eventually stopped.
:) Also, it wasn't very well written.So: Really cool story, but it could have been told with just as much content and umph in about 60 pages.
I found the whole story to be so moving, and I think I was extra sensitive because I have a friend going through a similar type adoption.As we walked out of the theatre we all commented that the movie was so good - BUT, the movie told the story of Saroo until he was adopted and then did an immediate jump to him in college and his quest to find his home.
We all wondered what it was like in his growing up years - so this was my quest to find out if the book told any different!I listened to the audio of this book and I loved it!!!
At the end a map was included, but the formatting for my ARC was clearly off, which was unfortunate as I'd have been interested to see the journey on the map.
I don't know if any photos are included in the publication versions, there are none in the ARC (in the beginning of the text a reference is made to the cover photo, which my ARC did not have, but no other photo references are made), and I think they would help the story come alive, though I recognize that it could be a real invasion of privacy for some involved parties.
