https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2152.The_Jane_Austen_Book_Club
A more clichéd combination of unfulfilled women could hardly be conceived: a middle-aged woman who’s just been left by her husband; her lesbian daughter who falls easily and unhappily in love; a spinster who breeds dogs; a dissatisfied French teacher in an unhappy marriage; and finally, the six-times divorced earth mother who brings them all together for six months of Jane Austen book clubbing.
— a love interest, but the book is so poorly written that he’s virtually indiscernible from the women.
Their “discussions” are banal, the correspondence to their personal lives contrived, and the characters themselves both irritating and supremely boring, which I suppose must be some sort of an accomplishment.
I like contemporary literary fiction. I really like book clubs. I love Jane Austen. I thought this book would be right up my alley. How could it bore me to tears like that?? Lots of drama about the current lives and loves of the various members of this book club, which has its reflection in the themes of the various Jane Austen novels they read each month. It was mildly interesting, and I finished the book, but it just never really engaged me.
If the title and the book club were not tied to Jane Austen, the references to the books would be a bit more subtle, and I'd consider the book as having more genius, but as it stands, it just seemed like a cheap attempt to get Austen into the book.
I adore Jane Austen as much as the next "Janeite", but this felt cheap to me.Beyond that, I always felt like the author created her characters, and was trying to keep them from us, much the way Jocelyn tried to keep details of who Grigg was from the others when the book club was formed.
All these people start a Jane Austen book club.This book starts slow and I don't think its pace ever changes (I couldn't finish this thing; I couldn't find the energy, so I put an end to this weird self-inflicted pain).While I was reading this book, I couldn't stop thinking that if you are going to write about this outstanding author or her works, without a gram of her wit and fine humor, then please, do not do it.
Like I said, all these people are members of a Jane Austen book club, so you could imagine all the witty comments you will read.
I picked this up because I enjoyed the movie version. I like the story: a modern-day book club that reads all of Jane Austen's novels, and the participants' lives become entangled and resemble some of Miss Austen's famous plots. However, I thought Fowler's book was scattered and poorly written, and I couldn't finish it. I thought it was mediocre fan fiction.
On the other hand, there’s very little real-time interaction between the characters.
Although what interaction there is, plays out beautifully and believably, it’s also spread between the six main characters, like a series of interconnected vignettes or short stories, rather than a novel.
As is, the book club is nothing more than a framing device, and although the novel concludes by asking “who but Jane could have changed us this way?” I didn’t quite believe in the Power of Jane myself.
BLURB The Extraordinary New York Times BestsellerIn California's central valley, five women and one man join to discuss Jane Austen's novels. Over the six months they get together, marriages are tested, affairs begin, unsuitable arrangements become suitable, and love happens. With her eye for the frailties of human behavior and her ear for the absurdities of social intercourse, Karen Joy Fowler has never been wittier nor her characters more appealing. The result is a delicious dissection of mod
The Extraordinary New York Times BestsellerIn California's central valley, five women and one man join to discuss Jane Austen's novels.
The result is a delicious dissection of modern relationships.Dedicated Austenites will delight in unearthing the echoes of Austen that run through the novel, but most readers will simply enjoy the vision and voice that, despite two centuries of separation, unite two great writers of brilliant social comedy.COMMENTSThis was a good read.
It brings a new perception of Jane Austen to the reader, but also cause a renaissance of love and commitment into the 6 members' lives.
I wanted to like this but could never get into any of the characters or the stories they told.
They are a mismatched bunch who all come together to read Jane Austin.
Perhaps there should of been more Austin and less of these characters.
We learned odd stories of each characters past, that I didn't really see made them any more interesting, nor related to who they were in the present.
Only went up to a 2 star as some of the Austin comments made me want to read her!
I am a quite reliable multi-tasker...If you love Jane Austen, I think you will really appreciate the book.
Four Hello Kittys.My favorite Jane Austen book is Pride and Prejudice.
I love her.One of my favorite classes I took in grad school was on Jane Austen.
I wrote a great paper on Jane Austen paper dolls.I finished Fowler's novel this evening by our outdoor fireplace.
Very simply happy.When the fire got low, our neighbor boy Joe, crept between the pines in our backyards, apologized for interrupting my reading and asked if he and his brother could get me more wood.
Everything feels full of love and goodness.
The end of trailer announced, "Based on the best selling novel, The Jane Austen Book Club." I thought it would be fun to check out the book since I almost never see a movie until I can watch it via Netflix.I had hoped it would be a kind of "fun" read, especially since I am a Jane-ite.
But you have to be a certain kind of writer to pull this off...Fowler didn't do this for me.If you're a fellow Jane-ite, it might be fun to read the book and the character's corresponding views on all things Austen...but otherwise, I'd advise you pass on this one.
I've read the (very) negative reviews of this (there are many) and I have to say, I think a lot of people just didn't get this book.
They wanted it to be plot-driven and fun (as so many Austen take-offs are), but this book is much more character-driven and contemplative.
(view spoiler)[In the chapter where the club discusses Persuasion, Sylvia's husband writes her a great love letter.
As you may know, the best thing about Persuasion is the love letter Wentworth sends to Anne in the end.
(You will notice only one of the characters from my favorite Austen novels, P&P and Persuasion, made it on the list.
I could have skipped over them and not really have missed anything.The one character story line that I thought was really good was Allegra's.
And the few short paragraphs that were 'book club' scenes were not at all interesting - it appeared that Fowler only included them so she could flaunt the fact that she knows all of Jane Austen's novels rather well.Which leads me to a parallell in this novel and Pride and Prejudice: In P&P Mary seems like a character that you could simply throw away and nothing would really happen to the other characters or plot.
Probably because if I don't like a book, it somehow never gets finished.
I'm usually reading four or five things at once, switching back and forth as different moods strike me, unless of course I get drawn deeply into a story and don't want to leave.Such was the case here.
Jeebus.I don't really want to use this tool for synopses or reviews or anything.
I have no idea what I'll end up saying about each book, but about this one I'll say that if you love Austen, or sci-fi, or just engaging characters brilliantly sketched, you will probably really enjoy this book.
This book was really a disappointment to me.
After all the hype I thought this would be a really great book.
Everything this book was not.My husband is reading this book as well(He is a TRUE Jane Austen fan) and he asked me last night if ALL women were as catty and nasty as the women in this book can be!!!And when I thought about it last night, I couldn't even remember what most of the book was about and I HAD JUST FINISHED IT!!!!It was a quick read and that was about it for me.
I bought this in a train station with the deliberate aim of reading a puff book. I was not expecting a masterpiece, but this was absolute crap. I kept reading on the off chance that it might improve– it did not. The only redeeming quality of this book is that it is a really fast read (since it's fluff).
آستینِ برنادت یک نابغه ی طناز است.آستینِ سیلویا می تواند عاشقانه دوست بدارد و دوست داشته شود، اما این عشق جلوی چشم هایش را نمی گیرد و قضاوتش را مخدوش نمی کند.
هر بار کتاب هایش را می خوانم با دفعه ی قبل فرق دارد و هر بار بیشتر دوستش دارم.اما در مورد کتاب:پنج خانم و یک آقا، قرار می گذارند در شش ماه، شش رمان جین آستین را بخوانند و در موردشان صحبت کنند.
ماجرای چندانی در کتاب اتفاق نمی افتد، به همین خاطر شاید زمین گذاشتنش راحت باشد و تمام کردنش سخت، اما شخصیت های جالبی دارد.
I like Jocelyn best, but, if I'm being honest, I'm more like Prudie than I care to admit sometimes.
The structure is thus roughly divided into six months, and each month one of the people leads the discussion while Fowler interweaves that person's life story into the discussion, often punctuated by quotes from Austen's books.
These constant plunges back into MP finally unmoored me from this story and I kept struggling against the urge to put this book down and reread MP; I realized, after yet again consciously disengaging myself from MP and resolutely finding my place on the page that the club people had yet to come to life for me, subsumed as they were by Austen's novels constantly reinvoked.Was it that sameness of tone?
Instead, I took this book as an implicit homage to Austen.
A gently satirical portrayal of a group of characters bound partly, but not entirely, by a love of Austen's novels.
Not that much actually happens during the course of the book.
Nevertheless, we learn a lot about this particular group of people and their relationships to each other.
By the end of the book, I cared what happened to each of them.
Familiarity with Austen's work is marginally useful to an appreciation of this book, but certainly not necessary.
Read as part of my challenge to read my way around the world.
http://highlanddrive.blogspot.com/201...I'd seen the movie a while back so I thought this book would more of the same.
The movie seemed to only have a passing familiarity with this book.
I especially liked the flashbacks of all the lives in the book.
The mystery author and the description of the riot at the girls reform school that has to be put down by the National Guard were especially delightful.This is only the second Karen Joy Fowler I've read.
It makes me want to dig up her entire works and read them all!
There are few books I would call elegant - this is one of them.I was more than pleasantly surprised by the constructed simplicity of The Jane Austen Book Club.
Joy Fowley manages to fit so much character and emotion into the small novel.
I was surprised by how much I enjoyed this style.
Although tied together by Jane Austen's books, I was happy to find that you did not need to be an Austen conneisseur - I've only read Pride and Prejudice - to enjoy the club's discussions.
So even if you are an Austen sceptic, you can enjoy this book!Bottom line?
However, the thing that disappoints me so much is that this book seemed to only use the name "Jane Austen" to make her fans interested and want to read the book...
However, the more I read it, I got the impression that the writer kind of forget about Jane Austen, and only write her name or her books just every now and then without anything that goes with it...Well, that would not be a big problem if the story itself is good and the characters are developed with good care...
Still, I've not been one to join the bandwagon about such chick flicks that are often described as tear jerkers.
It’s a whole 175 pages long, which means I should have gotten through it in a couple of sittings.
Instead, I’m still on page 45.
I'm pretty much done with it.The problem is that this is a pretty typical chick flick type of set up.
In other words, it’s one of those where women get together over some common hobby and then you spend the time recalling each woman’s story and bonding and whatnot.
I've a notion someone told me this was a good book.
They must have very different "good book" criteria from mine.
But this book kept interrupting the interesting bits-about-the-characters (which were, in any case, flashbacks) with random not-very-interesting (or even well-thought-out) chunks of semi-lit-crit-ness.
I don't generally read literary criticism, but even I could tell that this wasn't really it.
I kept hoping that maybe the lit-crit-y bits would make sense at the end and that the whole thing would pull together into a proper story.
But they didn't and it didn't.The writing (on a technical level) was fine; some of the characterisation wasn't half bad...but the plot?
I love Jane Austen. I find this book very close to awful, yet not close enough to be interesting. Is this what women read? Is this chick lit? Women's fiction? All the women are unlikeable stereotypes - boring ones, at that. The men are sexless addenda to domestic life. They inhabit a white-people problems world that is so superficial as to be maudlin. It feels written through the veil of anti-depressants or between runs to Costco - or both. I don't think I'll be able to finish it. I'm not even sure it's worth trying.
Onvan : The Jane Austen Book Club - Nevisande : Karen Joy Fowler - ISBN : 452286530 - ISBN13 : 9780452286535 - Dar 288 Safhe - Saal e Chap : 2004
Eu gosto desse tropo de pessoas se mudando para cidades pequenas e encontrando alento numa vida em comunidade, frequentando o mesmo café em que todo mundo se conhece, se apaixonando e bebendo sangria em varandas enquanto usam chapéus de abas largas.Ele: Ou seja, tudo o que você não quer fazer na vida real.
E, como eu disse, eu adoro a ideia que o Hallmark Channel faz de cidades pequenas com pessoas meio esquisitas, mas sobretudo interessantes.
Readers usually don't like the films being made after the literary adaptions.
Well, in this case-and I never thought I'd say it- the movie was so much better than the book.
As I got into the second part of the plot, the author seemed to have lost all ideas where to go with the story line, the characters etc.
And to top it all, at the end of the book, after the epilogue, the reader gets a short summary of each of the six Austen novels, plus questions for the discussion.
If it were not for the movie, my rating would be even lower than it actually is...
I wanted to like this, because Jane Austen, but sadly it was almost painfully boring.
If I had of read this when I orginally brought it back when I was 18 I don't think it would have been anywhere near as appealing to me as it was now, reading it when I'm 25.The story revolves around six main characters and a solely Jane Austen dedicated book club that they've created.
The Jane Austen Book Club reaffirms the power of the novel and if there's one thing I believe in with all of my might, that is it.
