https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/472025.Why_I_Am_Not_a_Christian_and_Other_Essays_on_Religion_and_Related_Subjects
As much as I wanted to believe in the religion that happened to be the predominant one in my environment, it all just seemed ridiculous.
I remember sitting in a church as a 15-year-old, praying to a god I did not believe in to give me faith in him.
Once I had read Russell, I could embrace my sense that the evil force (god, the killer of anything that opposes him) that appears in the Bible does not exist, and should not exist (it would be horrible!).
Reposted in support of those who feel the grip of their churches tightening in fear of the modern world of freedom of choice.
Why I Am Not a Christian and Other Essays on Religion and Related Subjects, Bertrand RussellWhy I Am Not a Christian is an essay by the British philosopher Bertrand Russell.
Originally a talk given 6 March 1927 at Battersea Town Hall, under the auspices of the South London Branch of the National Secular Society, it was published that year as a pamphlet and has been republished several times in English and in translation.تاریخ نخستین خوانش: روز شانردهم ماه آوریل سال 1975 میلادیعنوان: چرا مسیحی نیستم؛ نویسنده: برتراند راسل؛ مترجم: روح الله عباسی؛ تهران، روز، ؟134 ؛ در 108 ص؛ عنوان: چرا مسیحی نیستم؛ نویسنده: برتراند راسل؛ مترجم: عبدالعلی دستغیب؛ تهران، فرهنگ، 1351 ؛ در 311 ص؛ متن سخنرانی‌ ای است که «برتراند راسل» در روز ششم ماه مارس سال 1927 میلادی در انجمن ملی غیرمذهبیان، در شمال لندن ایراد کرده، که سپس به صورت جزوه‌ ای در همان سال چاپ شده است.
ا. شربیانی
By the time I read this book, I was already not a Christian, but it was still hard for me to read.
It was kinda like accidentally figuring out a magician's trick.
You knew he wasn't *really* doing magic, but seeing how he did it somehow made the world less fun.That said, this is a great book.
His logical proofs against God were a great review for me (I'd heard those in different forms for many years) and the section about religion and its benefit or lack thereof to humankind was something I hadn't considered to that depth.
Really I am not much impressed with the people who say: "Look at me: I am such a splendid product that there must have been design in the universe." Therefore, although it is of course a gloomy view to suppose that life will die out -- at least I suppose we may say so, although sometimes when I contemplate the things that people do with their lives I think it is almost a consolation -- it is not such as to render life miserable.
Because, if I am one of the products on which design in the universe is based...
چرا مسیحی نیستم نقد راسل بر مذهب است.
راسل در ابتدا میکوشد با تکیه بر منطق و قوای عقلی دلایلی در رد وجود علت العلل مطرح کند و سپس بحث را به مذهب میکشاند.
او روش اخلاقی کانت را در تایید وجود این علت، مردود میشمارد و با تبیین فلسفه عقلانی خود، زندگی خوب را زندگی ای میداند که از عشق سرچشمه گرفته و با دانش رهبری شود.
راسل رستگاری دینی را ناشی از فردیت میداند و معتقد است که فردیت نمیتواند راهی به سعادت پیدا کند.
او در اثبات این مدعا، جمهوریت افلاطون را گواه خردمندانه ای برای زندگی سیاسی و رد فردیت بر
چرا مسیحی نیستم نقد راسل بر مذهب است.
راسل در ابتدا میکوشد با تکیه بر منطق و قوای عقلی دلایلی در رد وجود علت العلل مطرح کند و سپس بحث را به مذهب میکشاند.
او روش اخلاقی کانت را در تایید وجود این علت، مردود می‌شمارد و با تبیین فلسفه عقلانی خود، زندگی خوب را زندگی ای میداند که از عشق سرچشمه گرفته و با دانش رهبری شود.
راسل رستگاری دینی را ناشی از فردیت میداند و معتقد است که فردیت نمیتواند راهی به سعادت پیدا کند.
در انتها، راسل انسان والا را شخصی میداند که حقیقت را توسعه میدهد و بنابراین علمای مذهبی را از این جرگه خارج می کند.
The Pope has officially condemned Socialism." (pg 26)- "Before [God] created the world He foresaw all the pain and misery that it would contain; He is therefore responsible for all of it." (pg 29)- (in regards to his position on free will and personal responsibility) "When a man acts in ways that annoy us we wish to think him wicked, and we refuse to face the fact that his annoying behavior is a result of antecedent causes which, if you follow them long enough, will take you beyond the moment of his birth and therefore to events for which he cannot be held responsible by any stretch of the imagination." (pg 40)- "It would seem, therefore, that the three human impulses embodied in religion are fear, conceit, and hatred.
I love these essays! Russell never argues that faith is impossible, but makes it clear why he doesn't have it. (I cannot believe in a god who, given an infinite universe and millions of years in which to perfect it, can come up with nothing better than the nazis and the KKK) - paraphrase
من أفضل ما قرأت فيما يخص الفلسفةالفكرية تجاه الدين المسيحي خاصة والأديان الأخرى عامة , فكر بيرتناد رسل يفصل المنطق ببساطة,لا يضاهيها الا سرده المنظم ...كتاب رائع
Θαυμάζω απεριόριστα την καθαρότητα του μυαλού και το προοδευτικό πνεύμα του Russel στην αρχή του 20ού αιώνα. Ευτυχώς δεν πρόλαβε να δει την απόλυτη διάψευση των ελπίδων του για την επικράτηση του ορθολογισμού, την ανάπτυξη του ατομικού πνεύματος μέσω της στέρεης παιδείας που θα βασίζεται στην επιστημονική τεκμηρίωση αντί για το δόγμα, την παγκόσμια ειρήνη και ευημερία που ονειρευόταν μέσω του περιορισμού του φόβου ως κινήτρου για τις ανθρώπινες πράξεις και τις πολιτικές μεθοδεύσεις.
I probably would have liked this book a lot more if I had read it when I was younger, but now I find Russell's critique of religion profoundly disappointing.
They tend to rely on a straw-man caricatures that he sets up and knocks down, rather than actually engaging with the roots of faith or the complexities of metaphysics.
Moreover, his critique of social mores is superficial, his proposed solutions naive at best, and his grasp of history so insultingly bad that he actually blames the outbreak of World War I on Christianity (p.
These qualities make the essays included in this book perhaps the most graceful and moving presentation of the freethinker's position since the days of Hume and Voltaire."I am as firmly convinced that religions do harm as I am that they are untrue," Russell declares in his Preface, and his reasoned opposition to any system or dogma which he feels may shackle man's mind runs through all the essays in this book, whether they were written as early as 1899 or as late as 1954.I read this in 1982 during a year-long period of self-questioning and evaluation of my faith and beliefs.
خیلی منطقی دلیل آورده بود
Russell first defines what he means by a Christian: someone who believes in God, the immortality of the soul, and Jesus Christ.
Then he explains why he does not believe.
Then the character of Jesus, as presented in the Gospels.
He believes that all religions are false and harmful.
“A habit of basing convictions upon evidence, and of giving them only that degree of certainty which the evidence warrants, would, if it became general, cure most of the ills from which the world is suffering.” He explains his agnostic views with his usual lucidity.
Russell was not an atheist; he was just not convinced by the arguments for God. He was always wary of certainties.
خیلی عالی بود و فکر میکنم بسیاری از بیانات ارزشمند برتراند راسل نه تنها ایرادها و اشتباهات دین مسیحیت رو نشان میده بلکه منظور ایراد تمام ادیان هستشخیلی خوب و منطقی شرح داده بود و لذت بردم
It just so happens that my downstairs roommates also have an extensive collection of books.
Books that have been on my to-read list for YEARS.
One of this week's selection was "Why I Am Not a Christian." I should very much like to know whether I should be a Christian or not.
Besides this, the book is actually a collection of essays on subjects that range from death to freedom to academia to sex.
I am sure that I will pick this book up many more times, even when it is not conveniently at hand downstairs.

I must say I expected more, and would have needed more for this to be an intellectually satisfying exchange (between my thoughts and Bertrand's).
I have thought about the subject of religion for a long time, and I am fascinated by the fact that it exists.
What does religion deliver to a believer?
Perhaps I am myself to blame, after all he delivered the central piece in this anthology as a speech, and a speech may not be an appropriate vehicle to carry in-depth thought.
I shouldn't have expected a penetrating treatment of the subject.
This book contains a collection of essays, on the complex nature of religion.
I have considered myself an Atheist, for many years.Russell explains to us how well organised religion and Christianity is terribly destructive and also highly irrational, in many ways.
فصل سیزدهم این کتاب متن یک مناظره بین راسل و پدر کاپلستون هست که واقعا برام جالب بود مخصوصا قسمت بحث اخلاقی مناظره...از متن کتاب:وقتی که شما در کلیسا میشنوید که مردم خود را تحقیر نموده می گویند مردمی بدبخت و گناه کارند واز این قبیل ، به نظر میرسد مقام ارجمند بشریت را تخفیف داده و خوار شمرده اند.
باید از انجام اعمال نیک در این دنیا کوتاهی نکنیم و چانچه اعمالمان آن طور که میخواهیم و هدف داریم پیشرفت نداشته باشد ، به هر حال بایستی بهتر از آن باشد که گذشتگان در اعصار گذشته نشان داده اند...
I think I had admittedly underrated Russell until reading this. A wonderful example of forward thinking, and his influence can be clearly recognised in the works of contemporary thinkers (particularly Sam Harris' views of morality and Christopher Hitchens' linkage of Stalinism and state religiosity). Definitely worth reading.
Nobody makes me laugh as much while reading philosophy as this incredible sir.
Résumé : n'ayez pas peur, soyez gentils et vivez votre vie !
هذا الكتاب مرجع لمن أراد الإطلاع على أسباب إلحاد برتنارد راسل مواقف راسل المعادية للدين ولفكرة وجود 
A mediocre atheism. If you want the real stuff, read Nietzsche, Marx, or Freud. No one has said anything original on the subject since they.
Russell scrupulously proves it : firstly, by refuting the existence of God on philosophical grounds( design argument, first cause, moral argument etc.).Next, he proceeds to specifically deal with the question whether Christ was the wisest and best human being.
Another essay dealing with existence of God is presented as a debate between copleston and Russell.
Copleston proves existence by analytical statement while Russell considers existence to be an attribute which has to be seen to be proved(synthetic).It can be technical for layman.There are few essays in this collection that deal with religion and morals.
Russell reasons out ,that we can derive morals from moral philosophy and social progress.
جمعة مباركة..
Disclaimer: My upbringing in a religious home and eventual rejection of religion certainly predisposes me to a book of this subject matter.
The only reason this book did not get 5 stars from me is a few of the essays (as I've found in Russell's other collections) wander into discussions of more historical interest than current relevance.
The appendix chronicles the tale of Russell's unfortunate treatment at the hands of the 'tyrannical majority' as he would call it, this majority being motivated by religious fear.
The story is so frustrating that it surprises me that Russell's anti-religious stance is not articulated with more personal bitterness.
As with every other time I have read Russell, I found Why I Am Not a Christian: And Other Essays on Religion and Related Subjects very pleasurable to read.
Russell's clear and organized style of writing is somewhat of a rarity in philosophical writing.
On the other hand—but also just like the other times I have read his work—he begins with a deep, but almost entirely tacit, faith in Reason's reason, a faith we can no longer seriously share with Russell in a world which finds itself after Nietzsche's writings.
Nevertheless, this is a terrific collection of essays that I highly recommend to everyone.
این چهارمین کتابی بود که از راسل خوندم، البته این کتاب شامل مجموعه سخنرانیهای راسل هستبه نظرم در مقایسه با کتابهای دیگر اصلا خوب نبود به غیر از ۲، ۳ سخنرانی خوب(از جمله مناظره راسل با کاپلستون) بقیه سخنرانیها، سطح پایینی(بخصوص از لحاظ استدلال) داشتندالبته متوجه هستم که اینها سخنرانیاند اما با اینحال، با توجه به اینکه راسل کتابی مثل مسائل فلسفه نوشته انتظار سخنرانیهای بهتری داشتمدر کل، کتاب نقد مسیحیت و متعاقبا نقد مذهب هست اما به نظرم اکثر نقدها در کتابهای دیگر راسل بهتر انجام شده
این چهارمین کتابی بود که از راسل خوندم، البته این کتاب شامل مجموعه سخنرانی‌های راسل هستبه نظرم در مقایسه با کتاب‌های دیگر اصلا خوب نبود به غیر از ۲، ۳ سخنرانی خوب(از جمله مناظره راسل با کاپلستون) بقیه سخنرانی‌ها، سطح پایینی(بخصوص از لحاظ استدلال) داشتندالبته متوجه هستم که این‌ها سخنرانی‌اند اما با اینحال، با توجه به اینکه راسل کتابی مثل مسائل فلسفه نوشته انتظار سخنرانی‌های بهتری داشتمدر کل، کتاب نقد مسیحیت و متعاقبا نقد مذهب هست اما به نظرم اکثر نقدها در کتاب‌های دیگر راسل بهتر انجام شده
