https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/152923.Dove
(He contributed articles for years during his voyage) What adolescent (and I wasn't quite there) doesn't fantasize about quitting school and finding himself by sailing around the world?
This was my first introduction to sailing, celestial navigation and sextants, an art perhaps lost with the advent of GPS and onboard computer navigation.
This preceded the social revolution of the 60's (he set sail in '65 I think) but sure forecast the culture of rejection, mind expansion and the need to "drop out" for awhile.
I expect there have been major changes in the ports he visited 40+ year ago.
(his parents call him Lee, his wife calls him Robin in the book) I appreciate that school is not a "one size fits all" system, and I am thankful that he found a way to learn outside of that limiting box.
So I appreciate and am thankful for Robin rising to the challenge to "do hard things" (as Zac Sunderland puts it) and actually work towards the solo sailing goal he finds to take on.What is missing in this book is thankfulness and gratefulness.
This is the true story of the author's solo sailing trip around the world. Robin Lee Graham, featured several times in National Geographic, set out to sail the world when he was 16 and finally returned home when he was 21. This book is his personal narrative of his travels - from being bored and lonely at sea to exploring gorgeous tropical islands to meeting his love Patty. It's a great book if you like to travel through literature.
I read it when I was a teen. I'd rather read it again, but at that time I felt like it was a fantastic book, a great and awesome history.
An amazing feat - sailing single-hand around the world - but this guy rubbed me all wrong. Most galling was a long passage where he rails against the destruction of the ocean environment by modern society and then tosses an empty Coke bottle over the side of the boat.
Of the many bad books I was forced to read during high school, this was the worst. Absolutely hated it.
At the tender age of 16, Robin Lee Graham set out on a 33,000 mile, five year circumnavigation as the youngest solo sailor in the smallest boat: a 24 foot sloop named Dove.
It introduced me to a whole new world of exploration and inspired my own voyages in sailing boats across the Pacific to tropical islands.
For anyone wanting an update on whatever became of Robin Lee Graham all these years later, I wrote an article about him in 2010 for SAIL Magazine.
One of my favorite books. An example of what you can do with your life once you stop all that God Damn THINKING and believe in yourself. It proves your dreams are only limited by your will.
boy drops out of school. boy buys boat. boy sails around the world. for a long time. why wasn't I this boy?
It's interesting reading this book as a teenage girl (when it was first published) and then again as a middle-aged woman.
The romantic notion of sailing around the world alone, with only cats for company, stuck with me over the years.
Even though I was not a boater, for many years after (that first read) I had a dream of sailing around the world.
what I saw was all the hard work that went into this trip, the almost crippling loneliness, the quality of the writing/storytelling, the courage of the young woman who became his wife who was also traveling the word alone.
The book also makes a great argument against the current education system in America (which would also have made Thoreau nauseated).
To sail around the world, to experience the life of a traveler, the depths of loneliness, the joys of gratitude and the simplistic things of life.
Students should be interacting with their world, not programmed by books and teachers with facts and figures.The one thing that Graham talks about most of all, and what I found most enduring, was the feelings of loneliness, especially after finding the love of his life.
The ** rating does not mean that I think this book was terrible.
It simply means that this was not my cup of tea (to quote the book).
Please, if stories about ships and sailing or autobiographies about a person taking a five year long solo boat trip to circumnavigate the globe to fulfill his lifelong dream appeal to you, do not hesitate to read this book.
I mean, seriously, read an autobiography about ships--of which you know nothing about--or the final book in a magic-filled series bursting with assasins and intrigue?
This book did make me wish I knew how to sail a boat so I could sail to wonderful exotic islands.
The book had a few problems.
I don't speak "sailing" so it would have been helpful if there was a glossary of nautical/sailing terms.
Also, there was very little mention of Robin's mother.
The father flew out to posts to see him but not the mother.
Finally, I didn't care much for the tone at the end of the book.
So while I liked the adventure of the journey, I wish the book had been better written.

I picked this up at the school library after reading a much better book, Adrift: 76 Days Lost at Sea by Steven Callahan, which made me interested in sailing. I lost interest again after reading this book. To give it some credit, it was a pretty fascinating story. However, the kid was kind of annoying I thought. He also went all hippie and preachy at the end and that's where I was completely turned off.
I read this when I was sailing with my family and not really enjoying it due to seasickness, but liking the mechanics of sailing and the idea of sailing to faraway places. "Dove" fits the bill, being a first-person account of a 16-year-old who sailed alone around the world. Plus it has that element of extreme personal challenge.
This is more than an adventure, it's a journey into independance and self discovery. I read this book on the average of every two years, especially when I need a pick me up from the everyday mundane. I highly recommend it for ages early teen to adult.
One of the best personal adventure stories ever written. A more innocent world back then.
Another favorite I read every few years! great adventure, thoughts of being a teenager and ideas about growing up, with a love story mixed in. A must read!
THE book that planted the seed in my mind to one day live aboard a sailboat and travel around the world.
This is a great example of a book I read as a teen that has stayed with me, and remained important.
At the time of reading this book, my grandparents were celebrating their 50th anniversary, and our extended family was graciously lent the lovely home of Robin and Patty Graham for a week to celebrate.
I did not know the stories of the man and wife who lent us their home at the time, and after they visited my mother explained that Mr. Graham had sailed around the world at 16.
So, I picked up the book he had in his home, which my mother had mentioned told his story, and I read a whirlwind adventure that viewed much of the world through fresh, youthful eyes a reader is not often privileged to see through.
Dove, by Robin Lee Graham is a true story about the youngest boy to sail around the world alone in the 1960’s.
I really liked that the boy, Robin Lee Graham, wrote this story about himself.
It gave more insight about him and his thoughts and emotions along his journey.
He never gave well rounded descriptions of the places he was going, so it was hard to picture the different settings.
As a lover of sailing and anything having to do with boats, I did enjoy the descriptions of the ship as well as the explanations of how he sailed his sloop in the changing weather.
I stopped reading this book.
The writing is awful and the main character - a real person - is just a giant turd of a human.
In the first few chapters he gets annoyed when reporters ask him about BEING THE YOUNGEST PERSON TO SAIL AROUND THE WORLD.
The nerve of those reporters!
If you actually read the words written in the book, he makes every situation about himself and how great his is and how everyone loves him.
Dude is just incredibly full of himself.This is a story that should write itself.
Literally, he shouldn't have written it.
I fully enjoyed this true around-the-world sailing adventure. The young man Robin Graham who told the story of his adventure clearly made good use of his tape-recorded journal and his written entries from his trip to create an amazing revelation of the development of his thoughts and perspective as he progressed around the world.By the end of his trip, he saw the hand of God had been at work in his journey, and in his remarkable love story.A wonderful view into the world of the 1960s.
He did hold the youth circumnavigation title for nearly two decades, as different as it could be to the effort of, say, the modern-day titleholder, Jessica Watson.Dove was the name of the yacht that Graham sailed around the world in, starting at the age of 16."He met a girl along the way, got married, and had a child, all before making it back," my friend's summary of the book went, and I was curious about how a young chap would go about writing all this up.It read like--well, like pining.
I read this as a senior in High school and thought it was the most magical story. I read it again as an adult and saw the danger, risk and reality of his adventure through "mom" eyes. Still a wonderful adventure by a courageous boy!
Expected to have more tales of danger and adventure, but found a very touching love story. I loved reading about this young couple’s connection with each other and their desire to live a simple and full life.
I was going to give it a 4 -but the cockiness throughout the book drug it back down to a 3 😂
A very wholesome story. Not terribly inspiring.
