https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6597221-the-hound
These works of Baudelaire and Huysmans could be infinitely rich and enlivening if one reads with creative engagement rather than placing the onus on the author to provide you, the reader, with a series of unending thrills.Such a jaded sense of the world can have, especially in a Lovecraft tale, horrifying consequences.
On a somewhat humorous note, I can just imagine Arthur Schopenhauer and Immanuel Kant, shovel in hand, on a moonlight night, digging up a grave.And the narrator provides us with a glimpse of his exploring the nuances of a new form of highly original, highly refined performance art.
One evening, in September of 1922, H.P. Lovecraft visited a Brooklyn graveyard and took a souvenir home with him, a small chip from a tombstone dated 1747.
It is obvious that the author had a good time writing it, and I bet you have fun reading it too.
"¡Que perdone el cielo la locura y la morbosidad que atrajeron sobre nosotros tan monstruosa suerte!" La estupidez adolescente y las leyendas se combinan para crear una historia excelente, donde queda claro que cada acción deja consecuencias y que las criaturas creadas por Lovecraft trascienden su época, además de la influencia que han tenido escritores de culto en el autor. Una excelente historia para adentrarse en el estilo del autor, pero no todavía en su mitología.
Why should any horror story lover read The Hound? Because it marks the first appearance of one of Lovecraft's most famous literary creations—the forbidden book known as the Necronomicon! MWA HA HA!!!
I haven't read Lovecraft for months and I had forgotten the beauty of his prose.
He wrote an excellent piece here (thank you again to Glen Russel for his review!).
Lovecraft writes with power to transpose your reality into a new one.
Grave robbers, lusting for secret knowledge, take an amulet from an ancient grave, stealing from of figure, a sphinx with wings and the face of a Hound.
When he goes home with his assistant, phantom sounds haunt him.
His assistant gets shredded to death, as if by a Velociraptor.
Children die, and these events parallel the echo of a howling hound.
This ghastly tale of two tomb raiders marks the very first appearance of Lovecraft’s infamous forbidden book, Necronomicon.Two seemingly low life robbers, St. John and the narrator, who shares this vile interest in defiling centuried graves for logical pelf, goes to Nether–lands (literally!) to excavate/rob an ancient ghoul.
The more I thought about the hound, the more it started to appear like the proto bed rock for modern cursed artefact adventures (ignoring the crude morale and admitting the weak comparison) from Indiana Jones to Nathan Drake and I began to form a vampirish interpretation of the same.Nevertheless, terror inscribed in the writing made the story all the more atmospheric if not a bit Poe-esque.
Reto: La Mansión Encantada - del grupo 'La cafetería de Audrey'.Tema: hombres lobo (2).
The Hound is one of the weirdest and longest suicide letters I've read. Told in the first person by an unnamed narrator, it is a story of the last days of the two friends who were trying to beat the boredom. After a very long search, they turned to macabre and eventually the quest to end their 'devastating ennui' led them to grave robbing.Only this time they robbed the wrong grave.
I told you not to mention them!I'd like to say 'all joking aside', but I don't see how you can treat this as anything other than a joke.
A wonderfully told joke, but a joke all the same.Two guys grow bored with their normal everyday decadent pursuits and decide to turn to something even more so -- namely grave robbing -- in the course of which they steal an amulet from from the corpse of a rumored bad man, after which they are haunted and pursued by a baying sound.
If you're an HPL fan you'll like it.
Es un relato corto, la manera en cómo está presentado me gustó. La ambientación que le da, la descripción detallada de los lugares, lo que va sucediendo conforme avanza la trama, hace que se te pongan los vellos de punta y percibas lo que siente el narrador. Todo acto tiene una consecuencia y ese acto le costó caro a uno de ellos.
Awesome! Great short fiction.
”In my tortured ears there sounds unceasingly a nightmare whirring and flapping, and a faint distant baying as of some gigantic hound.”...and so begins “The Hound”, an incredibly written work by the legendary H.P. Lovecraft.
This is probably my personal favourite of his works that I have so far read (I have read very little of Lovecraft, mind you), and it is without a doubt the most amazingly and compellingly stylistic.
Lovecraft’s eccentricities help guide us through this swift downward spiral of a story that has more brilliance and chaos dropping from its opening paragraph than the entirety of most horror stories out there ever come close to having.
A fantastic bit of utterly morbid, truly gothic horror, made even better by the unashamedly hammy and quivering voice of my William Hart audio recording.With the exception of a single mention of the Necronomicon, this felt very much a Poe rather than a Lovecraft, full of dark, decadent and decrepit descriptions of crumbling and evil antiquity, with many a nod to the symbolists and the aesthetes. The protagonists even build their own ghoulish des Esseintes like museum of occult and gruesome objects.This was fun and ridiculous, though not the least bit scary, sadly.
As if I were reading Supernatural... I loved it!!!
That ending..
Wow, Lovecraft created a pretty harrowing and dreadful piece without a single mention of the infamous elder gods or Lovecraftian monstrosities. This was pure gothic horror, much more akin to Joseph Sheridan Le Fanu with all of the romantic horrors of the unexplored and marvelous depictions of graveyards and all that jolly stuff. Very underrated Lovecraft story if you ask me, I’m surprised that Lovecraft himself hated it so much.
That was the creepiest, most ghastly thing I've ever read, and it was perfect.The atmosphere, the vivid descriptions and the way the story unfolded really made my hair rise. It was an amazing horror experience, narrated in just ten, thrilling pages.Nothing else to say.
One of the more maniacal Lovecraft stories that I have so far read and really enjoyed. Unforgettable, and what I would call one of his actual scariest tales. I had goosebumps as I finished it.
Cuidado con los amuletos malditos y más si tienen que ver con el "Necronomicón". O algo innombrable te perseguirá hasta el día de tu muerte. <3
Classic Lovecraft, gentleman grave-digger's dirty deeds culminate in undead revenge. Disturbing.
Grave-robbing and its consequences. A solid yarn, including references to the Necronomicon.
این خوب بود!قشنگ خوفناک و لرزه بر تن انداز مثلا!دوست داشتم ولی همچنان ترجیح میدم یه داستان طولانی تری ازش بخونم.این کوتاه هاش انگار همش یه چیزی شون کمه


Typical Lovecraft short story in which some gentlemen scholars go too far.
Usually, the characters become mad or die...What makes this one a 5-star story to me is the background.
The main characters are the owners and curators of a secret museum of horror, the “most incredible and unimaginable variety of tomb-loot ever assembled by human madness and perversity”.
For this reason, I gladly add this title to my “Collecting” bookshelf, having a keen interest in the collecting process in all its forms.If I’m not mistaken, "The Hound" includes the first reference to the “forbidden Necronomicon of the mad Arab Abdul Alhazred”
За задумом Лавкрафта, на кожного нещасного Сент-Джона, який займався огидними справами повинен існувати один безіменний оповідач, який переживе Сент-Джона, щоб розказати нам його жахливу історію. Цього разу двоє друзів стали розкрадачами могил, тому що їм набридли всі напрями мистецтва, а потім і декадансу виявилося для них замало. Одного разу вони викрали нефритовий амулет, про який ходила недобра слава. Вдома їх почали преслідувати незбагненні речі, а найчастіше вони просто чули далекий собачий гавкіт. Сент-Джону судилося першим зустріти звіра.
Не лучшее, что писал Лавкрафт, но стоит прочесть хотя бы по той причине, что герои данного рассказа - не типичные для лавкрафтовского творчества культурологи и историки из среднего класса, а декаданты, шуток ради собирающие гниющие трупы, обворовывающие кладбища и интересующиеся оккультным. Ещё тут, кажется, впервые упоминается Некрономикон (но не по имени).
Un relato de un rato pero con la primera mención en el mundo mundial del Necronomicon. Lo leí en la applicación de iClassics. Me he puesto una asustada! Muy recomendable el libro y la aplicación. Horror.P.D. Si no hubiera comprado la aplicación NUNCA hubiera leído a éste autor.
Un relato un tanto mediocre a mi juicio, con una trama bastante genérica de saqueadores de tumbas y bastante predecible en todo el relato. Si te gusta Lovecraft y quieres algo gótico esta bien sino vete a por relatos más interesantes.
8/10
