https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/104089.Tigana
This is the first time I’ve read anything written by GGK and my god, I’m completely in love with his prose.
Luckily romances aren’t a big part of the book but when it happened, I can’t help but rolled my eyes.In the author’s note, GGK has explained his source of inspiration for the creation this novel and how he wanted it to be remembered, mostly on the importance and implication of memories.
This is the first time I read any novels written by GGK, it certainly won’t be the last.
In our youth, we can say things like, “I would never…” and feel completely certain that it’s true.
I think that a lot of maturing into an adult involves being proven painfully wrong, again and again.I feel like I lost a bit of my youth while reading this book.
When she opened her eyes to go on there were no fairy tales in her heart.”My one slight quibble is that I do feel like the author pulled his punches just a bit at the end there.
And to have everything become peaceful at the end also felt a bit cheap.
what didn't I like about it?Well, pretty much everything.This book, in short, tells about the vengeful crusade of a group of refugees from the once-great city of Tigana, destroyed years before by the mage Brandin.Cool, uh?Nope.For starters, nobody cares about the destruction of Tigana.
Overreactions like this one are constant because Tigana strives SO hard to be emotional, ALWAYS.Not a chapter will come to pass without someone crying and despairing over the silliest things or without a completely random scene of oppression at the expenses of an equally random previously-unseen character.This, together with the incredibly contrived dialogues and a plot that relies entirely on happenstance, contributes to create a story that feels forced from start to finish.The single most obnoxious thing that alone would have made me drop this book is the narration.You will never, NEVER see anything happen.
Springtime morning in AvalleI don’t care that the priests say:I’m going down to the river todayOn a springtime morning in Avalle.When I’m all grown up, come what mayI’ll build a boat to carry me awayAnd the river will take it to Tigana BayAnd the sea even further away from AvalleBut wherever I wander, by night or by dayWhere water runs swiftly or high trees sway, My heart will carry me back and awayTo a dream of the towers of AvalleTwenty years ago, the nine quarrelling city-states of the Peninsula of the Palm were invaded by the armies of two conquering sorcerers: Brandin of Ygrath and Alberico of Barbadior.
but yet they live still, in their way.the tragedy at the heart of Tigana is the erasure of history, the stealing away of memory.
Kay does not reinvent this familiar type - he breathes new life into it, he makes her intentions and her actions understandable, her love real, her death a tragic one - but also a death full of tenderness and meaning.
props for Kay's ability to understand sexuality as central to experience, his skill at writing a love scene, his unwillingness to dwell on sex in a way that drools - that makes the experience a stroke fantasy.
The greatest strength of Tigana -- Guy Gavriel Kay's masterpiece -- is the "ambiguity" of his characters' ethics.
Fantasy, as a genre, suffers from the widespread simplicity of its expressions of good and evil.
Kay consistently transcends this genre weakness, and Tigana marks his first and greatest break with the good vs.
They are two of the greatest fantasy characters ever imagined, and the people they touch make a supporting cast of compelling depth.
Kay intentionally chooses character as his focus because it is only in depth of character that he can explore ethical ambiguity.
The expansion of and focus on ethical ambiguity can save the fantasy genre.
More than twenty years ago, the city-state of Tigana, one of the nine such in the Peninsula of the Palm, was a place of beauty, prosperity and pride, exalting in its culture and arts and lead by Prince Valentine, a handsome and beloved ruler.
I hope people can remember why it is better to know, but also to learn to live with the strife for a better world for all of us...Now I wish you all Happy Reading and may you always find what you Need in the pages of a Good Book!!!!
Or perhaps, it is more fitting to compare Tigana to a piece of music, especially that main protagonists are musicians sharing with the world “the notes of grief, the sound of love, held fast in the spell of a music shaped by loss.”In the grand canopy of the main story, you will find a breathtaking richness of the the minor strands, some motifs balancing each other, some repeating the slight variations of themselves just like in Bach’s toccatas and fugues, the same at core but so very different.
Only paths we had not known we were meant to walk.”I don’t think I’m exaggerating when I say that I’ve read hundreds of fantasy books in my lifetime.
Philosophy and religion are always one of my favorite aspects of fantasy worlds, and both were very well developed here.“Words were power, words tried to change you, to shape bridges of longing that no one could ever really cross.”	There is such a beautiful, eclectic cast of characters in this book.
Women in this book are not marginalized onto these pedestals replete with bizzaro stupid sexualization for no discernable reason (except BOOBS) like thisbut for complex things about THEMES.
(Look, I believe in equal opportunity eye-candy, yes?) This all the MORE DEEPER, because it is PURPLE.
[image error]This is INEFFABLE and SAD, because, you see, once there were SONGS, and now there are NO MORE SONGS.
Where there is PROFOUND SAD and BOOBS, there are...No, unfortunately there are no X-Men. But there are MEN.
No, these real men SING.
Well, SAD JOY.
The point is, a little bit of judicious forgivable killing is what forges the MANLY HEART.
I think it's because she's alone that she fails in executing her plans, and because she's alone, it's easy to fall for Brandin after having lived with him as a concubine for twelve years.The plot is revealed gradually as you learn more about each character, their inner turmoil and redemption, and the history of the Palm.
At times I could swear I can hear music playing in the background.What Kay does extremely well is capture the loss of a homeland, history, culture, and the name of a group of people.

'Tigana' is the first book I have read by Guy Gavriel Kay.I have heard of 'Tigana' book from Brandon Sanderson. He recommends lists of books to his fans to read. 'Tigana' is one of lists he has recommended.I love this book so much Alhamdulillah. I am surprise that Guy Gavriel Kay's books aren't well recognized and I really love his writing style too. Alhamdulillah. There is a few authors who I love their writing style:Bram StokerJ.R.R. TolkienJames ClavellGuy Gavriel KayRobert JordanBrandon SandersonI would be interested to read Guy Gavriel Kay's book, 'The Lions of Al-Rassan'.
5 stars
If there’s an audio version of this book, I’d love to listen to it, because it seems meant to be read aloud.
From the heartbreaking mood set in the Prologue through to the not-quite resolution of the Epilogue (argh, I’m going to be fretting about that off and on for a long time), the pacing, characterization, and introduction of information was all precise and just what was needed at that moment.
I felt completely wrung out when I closed this book -- in the best way possible.
This is a story for which the details may fade in my memory, but the emotional impact will resonate for a long time.
He's probably the nastier of the two rulers over the course of this story and although they're both horrible for what they did and subjected the citizens of their dominions to, I felt that he was 'the bad guy' for me.Each of the tyrants obviously hates the other and not only do the hate one another but the people who have lost their homes or been forced to change their ways of life to fit the tyrants hate them, causing all sorts of warring, distrust and plotting behind the scenes which is really where the seedy side of things comes into play and it harks back to Renaissance Italy.The story itself was certainly an interesting one, although there were moments of 'weird' and 'slow' bits in the middle, it works really well as an overall standalone.
A masterpiece teeming with richness, complexity, beauty, sorrow, courage, love, heartbreak, poetry, brutality, and transcendence. One of the finest books I’ve ever read.
Before reading Tigana, it was inconceivable for me to picture a stand alone fantasy book without any intention or hope of a series.
Rarely do you come across a book as this in the fantasy genre, where the emotionally rich characters and elegant writing demand your attention, define your thoughts and deserve your praise.
The focus on the plot is considerably less and often feels like it is something vague in the background compared to the strong characters.
People who are fond of reading fantasy must give this book a try.
3.85-this-book-is-epic-believe-all-the-hype-stars Tigana  is a book that will put you through all the emotions that exist. I am seriously exhausted (in a good way). Reading this book was a great experience. Some of the best characters that I have read in a long time. The story build-up is awesome, to epic proportions. By the time the book reached its climax I was all clammy-palmed-stuttering-heart-hanging-from-the-edge-of-my-seat no,fingernails not bitten to stubbs at all. BUTSomething fell a no
3.85-this-book-is-epic-believe-all-the-hype-stars
is a book that will put you through all the emotions that exist.
Reading this book was a great experience.
Some of the best characters that I have read in a long time.
By the time the book reached its climax I was all clammy-palmed-stuttering-heart-hanging-from-the-edge-of-my-seat no,fingernails not bitten to stubbs at all.
BUTSomething fell a notch short for me in the last quarter of the book.
And one of those rare times when I was actually not interested in any of the romantic entaglements well except for (view spoiler)[ Dianora and Brandin.
The gender politics was just...
oh god, I'm not even going to get into the gender politics of this thing, because before I'm even done discussing what was wrong with the portrayal of Alienor, I'll have ripped my hair out.
There were two things which saved Tigana from utter dismissal by me: that unexpected, but thematically beautiful, twist at the end, and the very last line.
If the rest of the novel had been as complex and as those two elements, it would have been a very fine thing indeed.
There is more that I like about this book than dislike.Overall, I love the story.
On the other hand, it is good to see such a marvelous work that stands on its own, without a dozen sequels, prequels, and hard to find novellas.
In fantasy, that is a rare treat.Still, this is a world I'd like to visit again someday.
The story itself doesn't need a sequel, but the world is fascinating.
I'd like to learn more about the magic and see more of the political twists and turns of the Palm.I will definitely be looking to read more of Guy Gavriel Kay....
I found myself many times deeply and profoundly moved.
Kay was able to communicate the profound sense of loss felt by a dispossessed people and without the aid of music or even lyrics bring the music within the book alive to touch the imagination.
Kay makes us imagine what it would be like if the memory of your home is removed not only from your own mind but also from everyone elses mind.
What would you be prepared to do, to sacrifice, to compromise, to bring that memory back?It is said power corrupts.
This is my second book by the author and has me wondering if I should reread The Lions of Al-Rassan.
Kay is this way with his verbose depictions of his worlds.
At some point you have to trust the reader gets it.
The story in this was compelling and the world robust but what really made it was that ending.
Here was the author's descriptive prose at it best with rapid fire action that he vividly brought to life.
I wouldn't change a word of the last 15-20% and being a Grimdark fan I loved how he doesn't spare the reader the gory details.
It says that I read this back in January 2000. It would be more accurate to say that I've read this book since January 2000. I've read this book no less than ten times. I own the 10th Anniversary Edition as well now, because I expect my first one to fall apart very soon. It's lost at least one cover being passed around among all my friends throughout high school.One day I will write a real review of this! Just can't put my thoughts together yet.
I first heard about Guy Gavriel Kay shortly after joining Goodreads, and have just finally managed to get around to reading my first book. It won't be the last!Tigana was a wonderful reading experience. Complex, nuanced characters captured my heart and I hoped against hope that everyone could somehow be saved in the end. It was beautiful and tragic, full of loss, hope and redemption. I wanted to spend more time in the aftermath and follow them all home. It finished too soon.
To me, what makes good fantasy is the way in which the author deals with the social, cultural, racial and other issues affecting our own world, our own societies, in a hypothetical world where alternatives can be explored, where individuals triumph over "the system" or "the man" (often disguised through allegory or metaphor), where different ways of thinking and doing are followed through to their likely conclusions (as opposed to the common dismissal of the genre as purely "escapist", therefore trivial.
In this way I was reminded of Africa and European colonial powers with magic serving as a stand in for technology.The culture of the Palm was also very fascinating, with religion and customs that felt fresh and were well integrated into the culture of the Palm and the story itself.Writing style: I am a big fan of Kay's writing style, having adored both Under Heaven and River of Stars.
The heroes don't have a secret army they are marshaling or terribly powerful magics of their own, they must instead subtly influence events to bring about their goals.
I really liked the themes in this one - loyalty, pride, love, duty, honor - and how those things can hurt us as much as anything else in life.
I loved how the characters (the main ones - Brandin, Alessan, Dianora, Sandre, Erlein...) all existed in this gray area.
I loved how the characters were, all in their own ways and for their own reasons, striving to right wrongs that they feel have been inflicted on them, and must do terrible things at times to make that happen.
Aside from those things though, I did like the book and I'm glad that I finally got around to reading it.
I met Mr. Kay at a convention last August and I can now hear his voice in my head, reading the novel to me (he has a very nice voice).Tigana is a kingdom under a curse: the people were conquered and the name of their country can no longer be heard or remembered (except by those who lived through the conquest).
I read most of the novel on a long plane flight and it was the perfect distraction—I was able to submerge in this fantasy world and ignore the passage of time.
Book 271 of my Science Fiction and Fantasy Reading Project
Ma che il loro destino sia coronato dal successo o dal fallimento, che si tratti di un personaggio abietto o di un essere umano meritevole, tutti brillano di questa profonda umanità, resa con una tale maestria da dipingerli come perfettamente imperfetti.Particolare forse abbastanza raro nelle mie letture fantasy, sono stati soprattutto due personaggi femminili a colpirmi: difficilmente dimenticherò l'aspra dolcezza e la leggiadria di Catriana e il lacerante dissidio interiore di Dianora, uno dei personaggi dalla caratterizzazione più geniale e struggente che mi sia mai capitato di incontrare.Questa storia è una di quelle che più mi ha emotivamente coinvolto fra tutte le mie letture, in ambito fantasy e non solo.
