https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/57546.The_Question_of_Palestine
The only question we should be asking about Palestine, really, is when we're gonna give it back to the Palestinians. It's a damn shame for all of us New Yorkers to share the historical burden of accomodating the location (what is now the Queens Museum) of the signing of the country's partition, which continues to result in the dislocation of its native sons and daughters from a land that is rightfully their own.
The book exposes the facade of the Camp David peace accords of 1978 and the disastrous influences of the Arab states and the US on the peace process and the realization of a palestinian state.The constant reminding of the islamic revolution in Iran of 1979 I personally considered irrelevant and unnecessary for the message.
To understand the psychology of the state of Palestinians since the Nakba and the creation of the state of Israel in 1948 and the six-day war of 1967 (colonization of Gaza and the West Bank) this book can't be overlooked.
Apparently, this was for some time the standard text on the Palestinian situation and Palestinian history. And it is classic Edward Said -- clear, well-written, persuasive. To the point where it seems to have become the template for the talking points of the Palestinian cause, pre-Oslo. If I was to recommend a single book on the topic, this would honestly be the one. No attempts at heartstring-pulling, no mention of traditions or of "ancestral" anything -- just solid, cold-blooded, grounded argument.

WOW WOW WOW. This covers so much about the Palestinian perspective in a balanced way. It changed the way I think about antisemitism (because Palestinians are Semites too). A fair and inspiring book. Give peace a chance!
Viva la Palestine!
الكتاب جيد رغم كونه مجموعة مقالات، ولكنها قيمة جداً.
This is a really critical read on Palestine, and it does a great job at engaging the reader in critical thinking, especially given that Said takes a more theoretical approach in his analysis, rather than a practical one.
There were a few things I disagreed with Said on, but needless to say, this is a wholly important text on Palestine.
It also critically engages with Zionism, particularly the beginning of the movement, which not many texts on Palestine/Israel do,I only wish that Said was alive today so that 20 odd years on he could've written a third--possibly a fourth--edition detailing the current situation in Palestine, as well as the events that had followed since the publication of this book such as the end of the first intifada, the Oslo Accords, and the second intifada.
There is a definite tension between the two editors of this collection. Mr. Said favors assertion over demonstration. Nothing is more grating than a seemingly reasonable assertion that is never backed up. In one article, Said refers to a marvelous collection of Arabic documents in Lebanon that no one had used in their research on the subject. He then proceeds to tell his readers nothing about them, not even a sample. Am I to travel hither and thither just for a taste?
An excellent look at the Palestinian question by a scholar well-equipped to discuss the Palestinians on their own terms. The book is rather dated now, but remains critical to understanding how the Palestinians view themselves and how to understand the Israeli-Palestinian conflict from the Palestinian perspective.
Although now rather dated, even given the author's '90s Epilogue, this is still a required read on the history of the Israel-Palestine situation by a highly qualified Palestinian scholar and politician. On the downside, the extent of the details Said provides can make for quite a slog at times.
A poignant plea for peace. This book represents Edward Said's vision and scholarship.Reading it in 2014, there are obvious gaps in understanding and the level of knowledge regarding the conflict Said expects from the reader is quite high. This is the reason I've given it a 4 star.
There's nothing quite like angry erudition is there? Still too apologetic in my view but excellent book that brings you bang up to date (to 1992!). Excellent if you want to understand the history and impact of the formation of Israel (or Israeli occupation more like).
Said doesn't seem like a particularly coherent thinker here. A lot of Said's introductory essay is just sort of ranting, as is Chomsky's essay. Finkelstein's is interesting, if a bit technical. I wasn't familiar with Peters' book, so I couldn't assess Finkelstein's. Hitchens' essay is awesome and solid, as one should expect from Hitchens. Kidron's essay is suggestive though uncorroborated. The final essay is good, as an overview of Palestinian identity.
I love Edward he is difficlut to read though, Viva Palestine, keep lyingwe will continue believing let us see who will last longer.
Still one of the best books on this crisis. This and Gun and the Olive Branch, and you're probably set.
Great academic insight into the problems and issues facing Palestine and Israel. Considering Said is writing in the 1970s he clearly shone a light on issues that are now more widely discussed. Note though- not a light read!
said never disappoints obviously. super comprehensive outlining of the problems/origins of zionism, the machinations of power keeping palestine in limbo, and movements for palestinian self-determination.
But were other important changes, such as acceptance of United nations Resolutions 242 and 338 (unnecessarily stigmatized as evil incarnate by Palestinian orators for almost a generation), a period of realignment with Egypt after Camp David, and the acceptance of the Baker Plan in 1989-90.
When these accommodations are contrasted with the history of stubborn refusals that preceded them, one is surprised at how, given the intensely-lived background of Palestinian loss and suffering, these Palestinian declarations and leniencies stand out for their qualitative distinction and the genuine hope they carry for reconciliation with the Jewish state.
But what also stands out are implacability of the Israeli refusal to acknowledge, deal with, or come to any sort of understanding with Palestinian nationalism."
He tries to illustrate the story of Palestine from the Palestinians point of view.
The book tells how Palestine existed,how it was only for Palestinians and how Israeli immigrants took the land.
Then it discusses the current Palestinian dream of getting their identity and their land back."read in the hope that understanding will provide a better chance of survival." this quote was written by NY Times on its coverI liked it and I was completely wrong :D
It is always nice reading the story from the perspective of other people. In this book Edward Said sheds a light on the story of Palestine and the people of Palestine from the view of its people; him being one of them. He tells how Palestine existed, how the Palestinian land was indeed inhabited by Palestinians before Israeli immigrants started to show up and take the land. He then proceeds to discuss the status of Palestinian refugees spread across the globe and their search of identity and dreams of ever going back to their land.
Edward so you book is a classic in the field but saying it is biased and clearly has a bone to pick in the fight he is pro-Arab pro-Palestinian and is notably anti-Zionist if you keep all these points in mind and Prof Said's viewpoint is very informative and so long as you understand his point of view this is an informative book. In point of fact this book is the touchstone for the Palestinian argument for statehood. Unless you read it you will not understand the Palestinian argument. With these note I would enthusiastically recommend this book
A sober, yet impassioned account of the Israel-Palestine conflict. Distinctive in it's exploration of the effect that the Israeli occupation has had on the Palestinian consciousness and sense of identity. This marks it out from most geopolitical accounts and analysis, which may not often resonate with readers who do not have a personal stake in the affairs of the region. This book is a recommended starting point for anyone who wants to avoid frothing rhetoric and is interested in a balanced mix of existential and analytic exposition.
The subtitle of this bk is "Spurious Scholarship and the Palestinian Question". I'm barely knowledgable about Palestine, basically just supportive of the Palestinian cause because it seems so flagrantly clear that the Israelis have displaced them. At any rate, I found it to be convincing that the editors, Edward Said & Christopher Hitchens, are legitimate scholars on the subject & found that they stated their case clearly & convincingly.
good read. These groups of essays serves as an important reminder that the Palestinian cause and the Palestinians have to fight their way towards recognition of their plight. for there was a time where even their "victim-ness" status is denied, this denial was embraced in the publication of so-called books, media and above all international politics.
3,5/5No lo recomendaría como libro introductorio para gente que no tenga ni idea sobre el tema, pero si se conoce la historia del conflicto árabe-israelí es un muy buen ensayo sobre qué significa ser palestino y sobre los caminos que puede tomar el conflicto. Desgraciadamente, pese a estar escrito a finales de los 70 sigue siendo de plena actualidad.
I haven't read it for a while, but my recollection is that it applies a perspective and context to the problem that makes it hard to persist in the anti-arab bias so prevalent in most mainstream conversations and dialouges on the subject.
urghh, i really want to read this book, but my brain just will not let me. i read pages and go back and read them over and still have no idea what i read. i just can't handle historical nonfiction, i guess.
Anyone who wants to learn about Palestine and Israel must read this classic book by the wonderful Edward Said. Although written in 1979, with this copy having an updated prologue or introduction from the early 1990s, Said’s words ring as true as ever.
Remarkably not bitter. The book is not necessarily the first book to read about the issue - it deals with historical situations, wars, agreements, etc. without explaining them.But it also puts the issue into a Palestinian perspective in a way that is clear and logical.
