https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/3690.The_Power_and_the_Glory
(Third World at least at the time Greene visited: Mexico and Africa in the 1930’s and 1940’s; Haiti, Cuba and the Congo in the 1950’s.) Greene’s travels around the world (including a stint as a British spy in WW II) informed many of his novels.
In Tabasco state, on the southernmost curve of the Gulf of Mexico, persecution was the worst and it’s likely the geographical setting of the story.
On to the story: Our main character is a priest on the run because there is a reward on his head.
Just about everyone he meets assumes he’s a priest on the run.
I am still soaking it all in.As the lead character, the 'whiskey-priest', moves from one place to another, Greene takes us along on a journey taut with suspense and tension.
Life can always take such turns that one's firmly believed ideals cease to make sense anymore.As the journey proceeds and we encounter various places and characters, Greene also reveals the misery, poverty, disease and utter desolation that has engulfed these wastelands.
I cannot think of a single writer that is without flaw—the closest to that super-man would be Graham Greene.That being said, this is my least favorite novel of his thus far; and it is interesting to note that this one is widely hailed as his masterpiece.
Here, like in that one, Greene creates his own orb around a very fickle, very risque topic: religion (and, most specifically [not, of course, my favorite at all:] Catholicism).
I will read ALL his others, for here's a novel to discover, & after some time naturally, to rediscover.
589. The Labyrinthine Ways = The Power and The Glory, Graham GreeneThe Power and the Glory (1940) is a novel by British author Graham Greene. The title is an allusion to the doxology often recited at the end of the Lord's Prayer: "For thine is the kingdom, the power, and the glory, forever and ever, amen." It was initially published in the United States under the title The Labyrinthine Ways.عنوانها: جلال و قدرت؛ قدرت و جلال؛ قدرت و افتخار؛ مسیحای دیگر یهودای دیگر؛ نویسنده: گراهام گرین (وزارت فره

The novel is about a priest; a whisky priest in a province of Mexico where the Catholic Church is banned and priests are shot.
The book represents Greene's own struggles with faith and the Church.
I've known a few whisky priests in my time and remember one particular church and rectory which was locally christened St Glenfiddich's because of the drinking habits of the incumbent.
The whisky priest here doesn't do a great deal apart from move around and perform any religious duties he was forced to by the locals.
Greene had an unerring eye for the sanctity of human weakness and the ominousness of human strength.
The Power and the Glory is the sort of title to inspire readers to great deeds, pushing beyond the bounds of normal reading capabilities to turn pages at superhuman speed!
In hindsight, I think I read them both at the perfect time in my life.Next up was Greene.
Out of all that, all I managed to read was The Man Within, his less than spectacular first attempt at a novel.
Graham Greene writes thinking man's books and I don't mean books for smart folk necessarily.
The Power and the Glory is just such a book.
The Power and the Glory, Graham Greene’s 1940 novel about the Mexican state of Tabasco’s virulent anti-church campaign in the 1930s is a powerful statement about courage, duty and the persistence of faith.Greene describes the flight of the “whiskey priest” a never named survivor in the state’s operation to rid all vestiges of Catholic faith, even to the point of arresting priests, finding them guilty of treason and executing them against a wall with firing squads.
Some priests were given the opportunity to renounce their faith, to marry and to forgo their earlier duties.Greene’s protagonist is a mixed bag of guilt, dogmatic devotion to duty (albeit a deeply conflicted one and in whose service he is often reluctant) and, finally, saintly mettle.
A Classic Parable set in 1930s Mexico Seems of Paramount Importance Today"A tragic situation exists precisely when virtue does not triumph but when it is still felt that man is nobler than the forces which destroy him." George Orwell, "Shooting an Elephant," 1950.Greene was driven to write this sympathetic novel about the persecution of priests in Mexico after visiting the Mexican province of Tabasco in 1938 at the height of the Mexican anti-clerical purge of Marxist revolutionaries.
(And a little bit about the baptism too.) And the reality behind these rituals is that if they aren’t done properly (by a priest) YOU yes YOU could end up going to HELL because you might then die in a state of mortal sin, i.e. outside the reach of the grace of God, these are the rules, don’t look at me like that, it’s tough I know, because Hell means infinite pain for all eternity and God will be okay with that because He created Hell and created these complicated rules so you better get a priest over right NOW since you’re looking a bit green and your eyes are puffy.
You read this, now look at my rating.
Look at my rating.
The reason it appealed to me, apart from the great writing and plot development, is that Greene handles the subject without being in the least dogmatic.
The reason I think it's a masterpiece is that Greene, as is exactly the case with his hero, seems to be in a constant conflict with God. As a result, there are no "good Christians vs bad unfaithful people" clichés here.
Whether your beliefs are similar to mine or completely opposite, don't hesitate to read The Power And The Glory.
A true masterpiece.
Graham Greene’s classic account of a priest living on the run in a Mexican state after socialists have taken political control and are trying to abolish the Catholic Church is a grim tale of human nature at it’s best and worst.
Even as he flees, he half-hopes to be captured and end his miserable life on the run, but he still tries to cling to his duty and faith by holding Mass and hearing confessions when possible.The priest is being pursued by a Lieutenant, a committed socialist who hates the Chruch for the way it milked the poor for every peso, yet while he believes he’s doing the best thing for the peasants, he won’t hesitate to kill some of them in an attempt to get the priest to be given up by the locals.
বরিটিশ লেখক গরাহাম গরিনের অনযতম মাসটারপিস হিসেবে খযাত ‘দি পাওয়ার অযানড দি গলোরি’। ইংরেজীভাষী দুনিয়ায় গরিন অতযনত সমমানিত একটি নাম। ১৯৬৬ এবং ’৬৭ সালের নোবেল পুরষকারের সংকষিপত তালিকায় তাঁর নাম ছিলো, তবে ভাগযে শিকে ছেঁড়েনি একবারও। সাহিতযে নোবেল পুরষকারের সবচেয়ে কুখযাত ও বিতরকিত অধযায়টির সাথেও টরযাজিক চরিতর হিসেবে গরিনের নাম জড়িয়ে আছে। ঘটনাটি এই-১৯৭৪ সালের নোবেল পুরষকারের জনয মনোনীত হয়েছিলেন ভলাদিমির নবোকভ, সল বেলো ও গরাহাম গরিন। কিনতু সেবার পুরষকারটা ভাগাভাগি করে যেতেন দুই সুইডিশ সাহিতযিক আয়েভিনদ জন

A few priests dared to stay behind in secret, defying the tyrant, ministering to the suffering masses (or continuing to bilk them---from an atheistic point of view) The main character here is a priest, driven from pillar to post, hunted like a bandit (indeed he is paired with a gringo killer in terms of police priorities), riding a mule through the jungles and swamps, hiding out with reluctant villagers, fearing betrayal at every step, but never giving up.
Whether Greene could really get inside a Mexican priest's head is another question.
A cold-blooded police lieutenant hunts the priest, swearing to kill him.
The police lieutenant understands the priest's humanity at the end, but carries out his duty.
This book is considered by many novelists as Graham Greene's masterpiece and I think they are right.This is a story of a nameless Catholic priest who is pious but at the same time alcoholic and fathered a child.
The main two characters are that priest (the last one standing) and the lieutenant who was able to arrest and prosecute the priest towards the end of the story.
However, prior to the final scene another priest came up that gave the hint that the catholicism was there to survive in Mexico.What I really liked about the story is the presentation of the characters.
– you choose) isn’t just a representation or metaphor for the Catholic Church; to me the power of this novel and the characters within goes way beyond the constraints of religion – surely the ‘Whiskey Priest’ is everyman and the story every life – comprised as they are of hopes, fears, desires, dreams, failures, victories, disappointments, faith and doubt… Graham Greene himself visited Mexico in the 1930’s and would have witnessed and been aware of the attempted suppression of the Catholic Church – something which will undoubtedly have informed elements of this novel.
I like books that have more questions than answers.
Why, after all, should we expect God to punish the innocent with more life?" The Power and the Glory started off slow and stifling.
You're alive, the book's alive, the scraggly man is alive.
Authors who deal with religious themes often include characters that, to use the lyrics of a CAKE song, "shine like justice." Greene's whiskey priest character doesn't do this.
Greene takes characters, gives them flesh, feeds them on the tree of the knowledge of good and evil and then watches them fall like the rest of us mortals.
(view spoiler)[Bettie's Books (hide spoiler)]
It was for this world that Christ had died: the more evil you saw and heard about you, the greater the glory lay around the death; it was too easy to die for what was good or beautiful, for home or children or civilization--it needed a God to die for the half-hearted and the corrupt.” The Power and the Glory is one of four “Catholic” novels from Greene (also including The End of the Affair and Brighton Park), though all of them feature struggles with faith worthy of Dostoevsky and Coetzee.
After being received into the Roman Catholic Church Graham Greene would some years later travel to Mexico in 1938 to report and witness first hand the persecution of the clergy, this would clearly go on to have a major impact in writing 'The Power and the Glory', which sees an unnamed Priest (known to locals as the 'whisky Priest') go on the run from the authorities during a time of religious hostilities where many Priests were tried for treason and shot, with only his mule and little in the way of supplies he navigates the harsh terrain trying to evade capture, and it's the humane and compassionate poor folk of small towns and villages along the way that help to keep him safe even while being offered a reward for his arrest, all the while the Priest is struggling with his own demons and bringing into question his faith and that of those around him.
The “whisky priest” is on the run from the law from the law in Mexico.
Set in period in Mexico’s history where priests where being shot and the Catholic Church was illegal, this book plays like the New Testament mixed with an existential western.
While my personal beliefs are nearer to the nihilistic lieutenant (kind of a Miltonic devil type character) chasing the priest, I think the ‘whisky priest” is one of literature’s great character.
He is flawed and human but dedicated to and personifies his beliefs despite the suicidal risk he is taking.
This is not a didactic Catholic apology but a troublesome piece of art.
This book is no exception.
It does meander at times but then so does the protagonist and, if you are looking for a cheerful pick-me-up read, this is not it.
His description of the hell-hole prison cell is, without doubt, some of the best descriptive writing I have read, I desperately wanted a shower after reading the passage, I really could taste, smell, see and hear the squalor, it was quite remarkable.It's a book that will linger in and out of my mind for some time.
Introduction--The Power and the Glory
One might ask where God is in all of this.The woman sat down, and taking a lump of sugar from her bundle, began to eat, and the child lay quiet at the foot of the cross.
In the end, perhaps it is both--that a man can be fallible and still be used by God to good purpose.Greene always tackles the more difficult questions.
That takes some of the same courage with which he finally imbues this lowly priest, and it challenges us to find our own answers about our own faith.
It was the perfect novel for me at the time, and I am forever indebted to Mr. Greene for giving me that enlightening experience.Going into this, I knew better than to expect the same magnitude of visceral reaction that I had with The End of the Affair, but nonetheless, because the connection I had with the aforementioned was so strong, I couldn't help but have decently high expectations.So, were my expectations met?
I relate more to the back and fourth between belief and unbelief; the constant questioning of faith that took place in The End of the Affair.If I have one important, reasoned qualm with this book, it's this: Beyond the Whisky Priest, few characters are developed enough.
Simply one of the most artfully written novels I've ever read.
With each of his novels, he is able to examine a trait of the human condition at the extreme.
Despite that, his novels are really about the human condition.
This novel is perhaps his most overtly Catholic.
There isn't much the man hasn't done that one wouldn’t abhor in general, but as a Priest it is particularly distasteful and probably criminal.
Without shining the man up, Greene finds an avenue for the reader to have compassion for this horrible priest.
To that end, perhaps this novel is about forgiveness, compassion and second chances.
Una pia donna si avvicina al sacerdote e cerca in lui un riparo contro il peccato in cui si sente invischiata, tutto quello sporco e un uomo e una donna che fanno l’amore in un angolo della cella, come animali.
Un riparo che il sacerdote, animale lui stesso, non è in grado di offrire, ma che sa offrire al lettore parole bellissime, di grande umiltà.
Un amore che il sacerdote sente nella sua degradazione come non lo aveva mai sentito nei suoi giorni di rettitudine.
It's while on the run that he encounters true sin, the kind that gets you past the velvet rope and into the second or third circle of Club Inferno: He fathers a child out of wedlock, an unpardonable sin because he is not truly sorry for it.
Here's the paradox: it's through a sin which will condemn him to Hell according to the Church rules that he comes to understand true love and humility: This was the love he should have felt for every soul in the world: all the fear and the wish to save concentrated unjustly on the one child.
This is the first Greene novel in which its partial extract to read in an English literature course eventually introduced me to know Graham Greene and I had to learn to enjoy reading him more from his other works.
196) Endnote:Today (2016.9.5) around noon I vaguely recalled reading part of the studied text revealing a scene of a place in rural Mexico where the priest staring at a swarm of the flies in the heat of the sun stays temporarily while on the run.
Outside of the priest the side characters barely exist as humans; a Judas-like character dogs the priest, constantly seeking to betray him in exchange for the police reward, the policeman who is pursuing him acts as pastiche of policeman stereotypes; unflappable and yet unfathomably detached, he perhaps acts as the flip-side to the ennui ridden priest.However, at the end of the novel the priest experience a spiritual epiphany, he sense of duty in administering the last rites for a criminal whilst knowing he is walking into a trap allows him to regain a sense of grace, a sense of duty and a sense, no matter how short-lived, of his humanity before he heads for the gallows.
