https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/114603.Forty_Stories
Now I wasn't born an expert on Russian Literature and neither do I claim to be one, but I have read enough to know the real thing when I see it.
It is the beauty of Chekhov's expression that makes this book a truly wonderful piece of art.I would have liked to include some of the quotes from these stories, but there are far too many to be condensed into a coherent thread.
Kurt Vonnegut once wrote to his daughter: “Get a collection of the short stories of Chekhov and read every one. […] I’m not suggesting that you do these things. I am ordering you to do them.”I'll trust him with this one.
Chekhov, on the 99%: "It's not a question of pessimism or optimism...It's just that ninety-nine out of a hundred people don't have any brains."
The best translation of Chekhov. Payne knows the Russian humor. At least I trust that he does. Because I'm laughing. And crying.
Gazing up at the enchanted heavens, magnificent in their splendor, the sea fumed darkly at first, but soon assumed the sweet, joyous passionate colors for which there are scarcely any names in the tongues of man.Chekhov strikes the same elegiac redemptive tone following another seemingly unredeemed death in a later story “The Bishop,” although in much more stripped-down language.
Chekhov never passes judgment on his characters; he is both merciful and merciless, letting them make and unmake their lives and fates.It is this claim to freedom within the confines of the form, then, where Chekhov’s greatness as a short story resides.Will the illicit couple in “The Lady with the Pet Dog” find a way to happiness?
Case in point, from "The Bride:" "'You must realize how immoral and unclean your idle life is,' Sasha went on.
'Can't you realize that to enable you and your mother and your grandmother to live a life of leisure, others have to work for you, and you are devouring their lives?
Is that right?'" The stories are so true to life.
It's because he gets to the core of what it is to be a human, in many different life situations.
And this often holds true today, albeit less extremely so.Don't read Chekhov if you are prone to depression.
I think what amazes me the most about Anton Chekhov is the way he is able to paint such vivid images of characters who epitomize humanity. You know these people. Even over 130 years later, you recognize them.
Forty Stories is a great read, Chekhov's acute observations of the human spirit, the beautifully portrayed 19th century Russian countryside and the gut-wrenching emotional turmoil of his characters leaves a lasting impact.
By the time I turned the last page of the book, I felt awestruck by Chekhov's ability to paint vivid and lasting images of his characters.
Even though the stories are over 130 years old, each and every character feels hauntingly real and each story reminds us of the intricacies of human personalities.All in all, 4/5, a great read indeed.
He works like a painter, giving the reader a clear sense of time and place, but he goes much further beyond his beautifully created scenes (as befitting a writer who mocks the self-righteousness and listlessness of a landscape painter in perhaps the only first person story in the collection).
In this way, for example, he differs greatly from literary descendant Carver, who may have inherited Chekhov's interests in helpless subjects -- the drunks, the poor, the emotionally turbulent -- but who captured them with a menacing almost monotone, unblinking style that presents great discomfort to the reader.
All are beautifully sketched where you are involved in the story from the first few lines.I MUST give an excerpt...this is a paragraph where Chekhov describes a cat's dream...really!!...amazing..." The kitten lay awake thinking.
The soul of another is darkness, and a cat's soul more than most, but how near the visions just described are to the truth may be seen from the following fact: under the influence of his day-dreams the kitten suddenly leaped up, looked with flashing eyes at Praskovya, ruffled up his coat, and making one bound, thrust his claws into the cook's skirt.
The Vintage edition arranges Checkhov's stories in chronological order -- a good idea that lets readers see the development of the author's talent.
Holding the stories together is a sort of minimalism: Checkhov only gives us enough information to move the action along, a technique many readers favor.The last few stories are notably good.
The first ones, for me, were too short, often only a page or two long.
Although cleverly conceived, these micro-stories have no staying power, and I too quickly forgot them as I went along.
This is a good book to skip around in, picking and choosing whichever stories you'd like to read.
Great stories, some better than others, but still great.
I borrowed this from the library, but I'm going to buy a copy for myself to have on hand for future rereads.
I really enjoyed these stories.
Not all of them were of the same quality, but Chekhov's mediocre is still better than most short stories you'll ever read.
What I enjoyed most is the scope of emotions these cover.
From loneliness in "Heartache"(a man with nobody to talk to turns to his horse), to anger in "The Princess"(where a snooty princess gets a reality check she wasn't ready for), to comedy in "The Threat"(where a man threatens to deal with a horse thief in the same unorthodox way his father did).
Take your time, enjoy each one slowly, and appreciate what a master of the human condition Chekhov was.
I was expecting to be more blown away than I was. Well this is Chekhov. I did enjoy this and these were nice little vignettes of Russia at that time. Mostly I found them interesting and some hit the mark for me.
There are some real gems in here, the short stories are all worth reading. The stories can be really funny, profound, or rich with information on Russian life. My favourite stories were: The lady and her pet dog, anna round the neck, the house with the mezzanine, and on love... all really great.
Many collections of short stories by Anton Chekhov are available, but “Forty Stories,” translated by Robert Payne and published in 1991 as a Vintage Classics Edition, allows the reader a greater number of stories than most collections. Because the stories are arranged chronologically according to date of publication, readers can watch Chekhov grow as a writer, from the first short story, “The Little Apples,” written when he was 20, to “The Bride,” penned in 1903 when Chekhov was 43, the year be
Because the stories are arranged chronologically according to date of publication, readers can watch Chekhov grow as a writer, from the first short story, “The Little Apples,” written when he was 20, to “The Bride,” penned in 1903 when Chekhov was 43, the year before he died.
The world abounded in miracles, and he rejoiced in all of them with an unself-conscious and devouring eagerness.”	The first short story in this collection to catch my eye was “The Huntsman,” written in 1885.
It’s a seemingly simple story about a 30-year-old peasant woman Pelageya working in a field, sickle in hand, who meets by chance Yegor who is hunting with his dog.
I pay attention to the recommendations from Goodreads.
Since I’ve been reading quite a few collections of short stories recently, this kept popping up as something I might like.Ugh, I thought.
Also Goodreads hasn’t disappointed with a recommendation so far, and the reviews for this collection were solidly in the 4-5 star category.
We all know fear and joy and despair and laughter and suspicion and love and hopelessness, even if I can’t fully appreciate living as part of the Russian elite (or peasantry) in the late 1800’s.There are many terrific stories here, all of them told concisely and perfectly.
Chekhov demonstrates his powers of observation and insight into the human spirit, in each of these anecdotes of the Russian countryside.
Chekhov's views of Russian administration and bureaucracy come through only too plainly, as he never pulls a punch, never spares any turn of phrase to further illustrate his contempt.
Even when writing about a contemptible or ridiculous character, he only allows judgment to fall on the basis of their actions; never does he dictate to the reader how they should consider them.My only complaint with this book would be to find fault with the translator.
I am not actually reading this book, but some Selected Short Stories by this author.
I dont know if the ones I'm reading are in this book, but I will use this book to include them in my Goodreads page.The stories I've read are:GooseberriesThe DarlingThe GrasshopperThe Lady and the DogWard No. 6The StudentA ChamaleonAbout LoveOystersI wont write something for each story, but just one general comment.
I think some Chekhov's stories were a little boring.
The way he writes is quite good (boring and slow, but good).
I know, I know, I should've given it 5 estrellas but some of the early stories included in the collection just don't stand up to the excellent stories near the end of the book...The way this book is organized is great because you can observe the short story master's progression through the years as the stories are organized chronologically and the year, if not month, is always included.I would say Chekhov gets really skilled at telling his stories around 1886 judging by the collection...
the stories from then on are nearly all gems, and the last handful are gold.
Its a collection of short stories from Anton Chekov collected during the span of his lifetime.
At the end of each story it does list the year that he wrote it.
The short stories are written about many different things but also give you a glimpse of Russian society at this time.
Recurring theme for most of these stories are love, loss, sickness and the excessive of wealth of some (and being completely ignorant of life beyond their walls) and poverty for others.
He has a way of making ordinary things sound extraordinary and making you think more of everyday action and life deeply.
Anton Chekhov is one of my favourite writers. Though regarded as one of the twentieth century’s great playwrights, along with Ibsen and Strindberg, I find his short stories to be on par if not better than his plays. Like his compatriot Mikhail Bulgakov, Chekhov was a physician but turned to writing, at a very early age, to make ends meet. His medical career constantly brought him in contact with people from all walks of life, and for a man who revelled in the intricacies of the human condition this was a source of immense joy.Full review can be found  here.
Chekhov has been one of the few major writers I haven't read yet for a long time.
I love Chekhov inluenced writers like Katherine Mansfield and Raymond Carver so I was looking forward to reading their forebear.
This collection is organised in chronological order and at first I found the stories a bit disappointing.
However he kept getting better and better and by the time I got to the Lady with a Pet Dog and The Bishop he had become a master.
Those stories are incredibly moving and yet very simple.
You can see why he is considered to be the father of the modern short story.
These short stories by Chekhov portray people living in late 19th century Russia, but they also reveal universal human emotions.
They are subtle and, for me at least, not easy to grasp.
A number of stories, enough to be noticeable, are set in the spring, especially around Easter.
Chekhov writes about characters who find themselves in impossible situations, some of their own making, but many not, who know their own feelings only after it is too late to act on them.
Reading these stories has caused me to want to know more about Chekhov himself.
The stories are in chronological order of the time they are written, so it's fascinating as you see Checkhov evolve from a talented and technically precise writer, to a profound and masterful artist.
The later stories are astonishing in their combination of simplicity and depth.
Though it's sad that his life was cut so short, artistically, perhaps, it was good that Chechov began to make meaning of death (and, obviously, life) while he was still at the height of creative abilities.
Though the later stories are more powerful, I would still suggest reading them in order to get the full effect.
Chekhov is one of my favorite writers, is an absolute master of the short story, and embodies many of the things I wish I could do in my writing, so perhaps it's a little meaningless that I give this book a 5-star review.
Is it a better collection of his short stories than others?
But I've never read a Chekhov story and disliked it.
Chekhov can write a story that is six pages long and contains no action other than a man walking home, and it will move you far more than thousands of pages about teenage vampires.

The forty stories I read after the Constance Garnett translations in the Complete Chekhov stories. I just wanted to see if she left anything. I found everything was accounted for in her series. The translator in the forty stories was a bit more general I thought. He captured the essence of the stories the same as an author of Dr. Seuss or Where the Sidewalk Ends would. It gave me the feeling of words skipped over and it might just be the smaller print.
Surprise...I gave 5 stars to something written a long time ago in Russia. These stories are sharp, precise, and biting. I can't imagine a world in which Chekhov's observations on the actions, passions, and often absurdity of humanity isn't relevant. Arranged in the order in which he wrote them, most of the the earlier ones are 1 or 2 page character sketches and it's interesting to see how his writing progressed as he grew older.
