https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/574055.Kerry
Kerry is a beautiful child asked to be adult, not even of age, with a spoiled childlike mother who makes terrible decisions upon the death of Kerry's father.
Forced to flee with her father's manuscript, Kerry crosses the ocean alone, endangered by those who would do her harm.
Unsure whom to trust, our heroine faces adversity with a great deal of courage and faith.
Love reading these books.
The evil individuals are frightening and absolutely maddening.
I am absolutely inspired every time I read the books of Ms. Hill.
I keep thinking as I finish one, that I can be a better person.
I’ve read dozens of her books, but I don’t think I’d ever picked up Kerry, so when I saw it available on netgalley, being re-released from Barbour Publishing, it was an easy choice for me.It’s been at least a couple of years since I’ve read any of Grace Livingston Hill’s books, so I was wondering if they were as good as I had remembered.
Somehow, Grace Livingston Hill manages to include a strong Gospel message in her books without coming off as overly preachy, which is quite a feat, if you ask me!Though Kerry isn’t my favorite of her books, I did enjoy it, although it took me several chapters to really get into it.
She loves her "beautiful little mother" but idolizes her father.
She works frantically to get it done, planning to take it to New York to be published, but she doesn't know where she will get the money for her passage.Because her mother has been on a shopping spree!
Kerry and her father have never liked Sam because he is loud and rude and drinks too much.
In the bookshop are two young men who hear her conversation with the shop owner, an old friend of Mr. Kavanaugh, about her plans to publish her father's book.So she sails and it seems that she has escaped.
When Shannon’s death shatters the illusion that life is fine, Kerry’s mother goes on a spending spree and hastily marries a louse that had been dogging her steps since she was a teen.Knowing the only way to proceed is to get her father’s book published so that she’ll have the money to fix her mother’s poor judgement, Kerry runs away and boards a ship to New York and her father’s publisher.
While on board, sheltered Kerry will meet up with several tests.Kerry finally realizes that she’ll need someone to trust – but, will it be God?Hott Review:What I liked: I couldn’t put Kerry down!
MY THOUGHTS ON THIS BOOKKerry’s father didn’t complete the book he was writing before he passed away, but Kerry knew her fathers wishes were for her to finish the book for him.
But the problem was, someone didn’t want Kerry to succeed in finishing her dad’s book.
Could this be the man of Kerry’s dreams, or should she be suspicious of him since things are suspicious about her dad’s book?This is a really enjoyable read, and a real page turner.
And I was excited for Kerry about being able to finish her dad’s book.
I was not required to write a positive review.
A Quickie ReviewI hate to bash a book by a late, legendary author, but, this is not what I've come to expect from Grace Livingston Hill.
The main character of Kerry Kavanaugh was rather neurotic and not all that likable, and I really didn't like how callous her mother was.
This seemed more like a soap opera or reality show than a work of Christian fiction.
If this had been the first GLH book I'd read, I don't know if I would bother with any more; since I know her others were much better than this, I'll keep reading her writings.Score: 3/5
I love this book. As a young girl, I read every Grace Livingston Hill book available at the Tom Green County library. I loved this story then and it still touches my heart. Such a sweet innocent romance with an incredibly power message of God's love. I had almost forgotten how much I loved GLH books. I will definitely re-read more of her books.
I was on a Grace Livingston Hill kick a while back and read several of her novels. They are always quaint and old-fashioned, sometimes a little preachy, but almost always a nice relaxing read.
One of the more romantic and dramatic of the many GL Hill books I have read over the years, this is the perfect sweet little vintage story to escape into.
This is a beautiful book; appropriate for all ages and has a wonderful ending. This is the perfect book to brighten a rainy and sad day! Five out of five stars!!!!!
This was actually a GLH that I had never read before. Predictable ending, but still a sweet story and great for a lazy, read a book in one afternoon, sort of day.
This was okay. The theology in it was pretty flawed.
