https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/615244.Clifford_The_Small_Red_Puppy
Reading this one for the second time because, well, it’s Clifford’s origin story!
The first time around I read a library book.
This time around it is one of Mum’s many new hide-and-seek Clifford books.
It’s so much fun hiding presents for people at random times.
While there are a few sad parts in this book, ultimately it’s a story of the power of love between a child and their pet.
Clifford may have been the runt of his litter but with Emily Elizabeth’s love, this little red puppy became the big red dog readers adore.
You bet your ass I read this just to complete my goodreads challenge. This was sad but cute, like all stories revolved around dogs. I wish I had clifford for a pet.
another one for pop sugar. Emily Elizabeth is an icon.
I read this to my Grandsons this morning while we waited for the bus to pick up the 7 year old, and he asked if his school library would have more books about Clifford, as "That was really fun.".
I'm thankful for libraries, school and community, for who could afford to buy enough books to wet and sustain a child's interest in reading?
The 2 year old loves the picture of a crane lifting Clifford out of the back garden and into a moving truck to take him to the country.
It was kind of the man down the hall to give Emily Elizabeth a small red puppy. Emily Elizabeth didn't seem to care that the man was concerned that the puppy would get sick and die because it was so small. So small that he would get stuck in father's boot. I grew increasingly concerned about what they were feeding that poor dog when it became so large there was no longer room for Emily in her own bed. There was no mention of taking the dog to a doctor, but instead they just fed it increasingly larger meals. Horiffic.
This is a must read for all those who love Clifford books. It's Clifford's origin story. Was he born a normal size and grew to be large? Was he born super big from super big parents? Is he from another planet? How did he get so big? You will have to read to find out!P.S. This book is more emotional than I would have thought an Clifford book would be, but I absolutely loved it!
Clifford series books are among my favorite for young children as they send positive messages that children relate to and children are naturally captivated by this adorable charming character so they really pay attention to the underlying messages the books convey. My daughter loved them. She's outgrown them but she will still tell you that she loves Clifford the big red dog.
The shocking origin story of Clifford the Red.
I vaguely remember being read Clifford stories as a child (and reading them myself) but didn't remember the origin story, hence wanting to read this. SO SUPER CUTE!
Love it! It is good to see where it all began.
Clifford wasn't always big.But he always was packin' somethin' smackin', if you know what I mean.The small pup had a not-so-little up, naw'msayin'?This mutter of a mutt had a drive instead of a putt, ya swing?
It does take us a while to get past the initial prick of plot focus so we can edge along the more important facets of Clifford The Small Red Puppy.
"Clifford The Small Red Puppy," is the origin story of Clifford the big red dog, which is heartwarming and shows just how strong the power of compassion can be.
Emily Elizabeth adopts a runt puppy, despite warnings that it is too small and weak to survive.
Her father tells Emily that Clifford might not make it through the night.
Emily lets Clifford sleep with her, and wishes that he would grow big and strong.
Students could read this story and reflect on a time where they were responsible for something else.
I haven't met many youngsters who don't love Clifford the Big Red Dog. In this reissue of the classic story from the 1970s, Emily Elizabeth gives the background behind her beloved pet's enormous size.
As her friend Martha is bragging about her dog, Emily Elizabeth describes how she adored Clifford, the runt of the litter, but worried that he might not survive to become a healthy dog.
Apparently, her love was enough to save him since Clifford began to grow and grow and grow.
The trademark red and black illustrations with Clifford's distinctive eyes on a white/beige background are pleasing to the eyes and make the affectionate canine easily recognizable.
For more reviews, check out my blog: Craft-CycleA cute book with Clifford's origin story. It is very interesting to see why Clifford is a big as he is.As with the first Clifford book, simple narration and nice pictures.Overall, and interesting and entertaining book.
Clifford's origin story. I can't it took me until I was an adult to read this, but my son really enjoyed the book. Clifford was a tiny, sickly puppy and Elizabeth begged for him to grow and be healthy. So what happened? Clifford started growing and didn't stop until she told him he was perfect.
Throughout this book, Emily Elizabeth goes on to tell the story on how she got Clifford. I loved this book and faintly remember it from when I was a little girl. Definitely a great read for young children!
Mommy really liked this one when she was little. It's funny how Clifford grows from such a small dog to a big one and how he grows so quickly.
Before he got big
My kids and I love all of these.
Read this to my first grade class. A classic! For all children!
I read this book throughout my childhood. I always liked to go back and read books about Clifford when he was a little puppy.
The story of how Emily got Clifford. Very funny.
The story of Clifford was funny when he put his head into the bowl for food. The story flowed very well but was a bit more fanciful even for the age target
I wish they hadn't digitally yellowed the edges of the pages. In my opinion it makes the book look vintage in a not-good way.
Clifford the big red dog is inflicted with Benjamin Button disease and regresses. A heartbreaking tale
Read at Grandma's. Grandma's book.
Review first published on my blog,  Nine Pages .Clifford began as the tiniest of puppies, a puppy as small as our four-six week old kitten—or smaller. Love and the prayer of a little girl make him grow larger than the largest dog in two days. I love the sass of Emily Elizabeth at the end: “Tell me again how you got your dog.”I have vague memories of enjoying the books about Clifford the puppy more than the books about Clifford the dog but only I think at the time because he was a puppy and cuter
.Clifford began as the tiniest of puppies, a puppy as small as our four-six week old kitten—or smaller.
I love the sass of Emily Elizabeth at the end: “Tell me again how you got your dog.”I have vague memories of enjoying the books about Clifford the puppy more than the books about Clifford the dog but only I think at the time because he was a puppy and cuter by default.
Plus, he was small like me.Reading this and the original Clifford story back-to-back, I realize that there is much more story and much more personality here than there was in that first book.
My children love the Clifford cartoons that run on PBS: Clifford the Big Red Dog and Clifford's Puppy Days.
A common question for both of them is: "How did Clifford get so big when he was so small?" Clifford the Small Red Puppy answers the question and if I had just bothered to check out the book sooner from my library, I could have given my kids the answer quicker!Clifford as anyone who has watched the Puppy Days cartoon knows was a teeny tiny puppy.
If you want to know how, go read Clifford the Small Red Puppy.
Clifford the small red puppy is the runt of the litter!
But not in the eyes of Emily Elizabeth.
Emily doesn't care how small he is, she loves him just the same!
Worried that Clifford won't survive the winter, Emily Elizabeth takes him into her bed one night and tells him that she wishes that he would grow to be a big healthy dog and she also tells him that she loves him!
The next day Clifford starts to grow and grow and grow and grow some more!
Clifford The Small Red Puppy is the first of many in the Clifford series and one of my favorites.
This book is for beginning readers.
Children love clifford because he is the easy to spot red dog, that is consistent throughout the pages of each of his books.
This book in particular tells the story of how Emily found Clifford and adopted him as her dog.
I would recommend this book to any beginner reader because it contains simple sentences on each page that reflect the pictures.
Repetition is also used in this book which helps beginner readers become successful in their reading.
In my opinion, the Clifford Series will always be cute introductory book to children.
