https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1167.Junie_B_Jones_and_a_Little_Monkey_Business
I wouldn't let my daughter talk like that, so why would I read her a book written that way?
I corrected it as I read it.
My daughter and her friends haven't yet gotten to the "you're not my friend" stage, I certainly don't want her learning it from these books!
;) Lots of "dumb" and "stupid" which my daughter is horrified by, both being "bad words" at preschool.
We may revisit these books when she's older and can understand it all a little better, but hopefully she'll find better books she likes just as much!
She was very excited about having a baby brother.
Just like any other 5 year old would do, Junie believed her.
She went to school and told all of her friends that her brother was a monkey.
Her friends then started giving her presents and bribing her so they would be the first one to see her brother that is said to be a monkey.
Jones is a 5 year old girl in kindergarten.
Toward the end of the book she was not as excited, because she found out her baby brother wasn't a monkey.
I recommend this book, or any Junie B.
These ages would like it the most because, they Junie B.
As an adult, I appreciate the comedy in Junie B.'s juvenile diction, but as a parent, I want to encourage my son to speak, well, better.
On the other hand, I don't think the author of these books expects the kindergarten diva to be a model for readers so much as a point of conversation for kids, their parents, and their teachers.
Do I want my son to call his friends stupid and guilt them into giving him their snack tickets and high tops?
Anyway, whether I love the series or not is beside the point -- I already can tell I will be reading them all, probably multiple times.
My 4.5 year old loves the Junie B. books so far. I replace some words here or there so that she doesn't go around calling others stupid or dumb...just as I do for some of the language in the beloved Roald Dahl books. Or we pause in the moment and talk about what Junie B. should or shouldn't have said or did and she learns from it. These books have her even more excited for Kindergarten than she already is.
Another cute story!
Me and my oldest baby listened to this book on tape at town today
When she gets to school she tells her whole class during show and tell that her new baby brother is a monkey!
Jones reminds me of kids that I work with so it's always a joy to read them.I think that this book in particular sends a message of welcoming new experiences and overcoming challenges.
I think that this book is a great way for children to find out that they are not the only one's going through that type of situation.Classroom Connection:The Junie B.
I would read this book to my class if we were discussing family dynamics or there were a few children that were all expecting new siblings.
In this Junie B adventure her parents start out telling her she is getting a surprise...
When Grandma comes home from the hospital and says she has a little brother that is a little monkey.
Junie B takes her seriously and thinks her baby is a real monkey so she tells her teacher and classmates this getting her into trouble.
And you really need to read these in order to follow the story line and Junie B's understanding of her world.
Yikes. This book was on a list of recommended books for kindergarteners and first graders. Because it was a quick read, I sat down and previewed it while we were at the library. The main character was nasty to her parents and teachers, and socially aggressive towards her "best friends;" basically showing every quality that I'd like to prevent in my child. I would never encourage my child to read this book. Lets give our children a little more credit and not assume that they are little brats just because they are young.
It was cute and funny at the same time.
Grammar gets murdered as usual, it is a Junie book after all.
Yes, but you can picture parenting a kid like Junie and how you would have to constantly warn her of the terrible things that could happen if she ran off at the zoo.
Junie is just parroting those warnings and it's hilarious.
I've finally surrendered to the idea that my daughter will NEVER enjoy reading the same books I enjoyed as a kid.
My daughter cannot stand animal books.
Jones" sort of kid.
Yes, I get that a lot of parents don't enjoy Junie and she is sort of a brat.
The book Junie B Jones and a Little Monkey Business by Barbara Park is a story about a little girl named Junie B.
One day, Junie B’s parents give her the news that she will receive her very own baby brother or sister.
When she goes to stay with her grandparents, Junie B’s grandma tells her that her new baby brother looks like a monkey.
Junie B quickly tells her classmates that she has a monkey brother.
I would likely recommend this book to many of my friends.
Another hilarious installment of Junie B's adventures. Love her sassy style.
I read this book aloud to my two kids in one sitting and they thought it was hilarious. I wasn't a big fan of Junie B. using the word "dumb" among other inappropriate comments. However, it's very obvious that most of the things that Junie B. Jones does are inappropriate. My kids could point out all of Junie B's faults so I don't think I have to worry about her becoming my kids' new moral compass. I love hearing my kids laugh and cuddling with them during evening storytime so the book was worth reading despite the main character's faults.
Junie takes this literally and she thinks that she has a actual monkey as a brother.
Junie's mom and her brother finally come home and Junie realizes that her brother is not actually a monkey and she is heartbroken, but still thinks he is cute.Characterization:The main character in this book is a kindergarten girl whose name is Junie B.
Throughout the book Junie is very energetic but in the end she is sad because she doesn't have a monkey as a brother.
Junie's grandma is who ends up taking care of Junie when her mom goes into labor.
I like how all of the Junie B Jones books are very easy to read.
I would rate this book a 3 out of five stars because I liked this book a lot.This is one of my favorite books out of the whole series because Junie is all excited about having her brother be a monkey.Plot:It all starts when Junie's parents have a baby boy.
Everyone at school is jealous and asks Junie if they can see her brother before the other kids see him.
Most of the book it is at her school or her house.
that her new baby brother is the "cutest little monkey" which she takes literally.
She was convinced that her new brother was a monkey, and she declared this at school during show and tell.
I think children would definitely be able to relate to this story so in that way the plot is very appropriate.I'd say the age range is primary to intermediate.
I think advanced 5-8 years would be able to read this and definitely intermediate.
They were also very realistic.I'd recommend this book to children that are going to become big brothers or sisters.
Jones and a Little Monkey Businessby Barbara Parks In this fiction humor book Junie finds out that her dumb little baby brother is a big fat deal.
Junies strength is that she can never stop being funny and her weakness is that she always gets in trouble for different reasons.
Junie loves to say that she is the boss of the baby because she is bigger then him.The author is really good at describing Junie in this book because she describes her personality, characteristics, and what she does not like.
The author did a good job making the book believable it kind of reminds me of my kindergarten year.
Junie B.'s parents have a big surprise for her, but to her disappointment, it's just a dumb bunny little brother, not a present.
The next morning, her grandma comes home and tells her that her new brother is "the cutest little monkey" she's ever seen.
tells this to her friends at school, who are eager to see her monkey brother.
When her friends start bribing her, things get really good, until Mrs. finds out.This book wasn't quite as good as the first one, nor do I think it's as good as the rest, from what I remember.
Jones and a Little Monkey Business by Barbara Park is one of my favorite books from when I was a little girl!
This book is about Junie B.'s new "dumb old baby brother" and everyone being infatuated with him except for her, of course.
Jones tries to understand what the big deal is about her baby brother and why everyone thinks he is so special.
Everyone bribes her to see her baby brother so she thinks what better time to show him off than "Pet Day" at school.
While the books are meant for young/beginner readers, Barbara Park's humor in her Junie B.
The Junie B Jones series never tire me!
Once the baby is born Junie B.'s grandmother makes the mistake of telling Junie B.
that her new baby brother is the "cutest little monkey" which she takes literally.
She was convinced that her new brother was a monkey, and she declared this at school during show and tell.
Later at recess Junie's friends tried to bribe her with presents so they could be the first ones to see her monkey brother.
Eventually this landed Junie in the principal's office where he called her grandmother and clarified that her brother is a real baby but he's just cute.
I remember countless hours in elementary school reading these books and enjoying every moment.
I especially loved this one because my baby cousin is about to go though the same thing that Junie B.
My little cousin is getting a new baby brother soon and every time we bring him up to her she just says, “No brother!” So it was funny reading this and knowing how Junie B.
Jones because she isn’t your average sweet girl that we so often read in these books.
She is an out of control, little mischievous girl and that makes books like this enjoyable to read because they are humorous.
Her two best friends are Grace and Lucille and they really want to see Junie's brother, but Junie doesn't want them to.
Now, Junie wants to take her little brother into school for pet day.
Lucille and Grace are very excited.
The main characters in this book are Lucille, Grace, Junie, and Junie's little brother.
She cared about Junie a lot and is a good friend to her.
Junie's little brother cries a lot.
I would recommend this book to any children from the ages of 6-10.
This book is gender neutral.
I think both genders would really enjoy it.
a. author: Barbara Park b. genre: Series/Chapter Book c. publication date: 1993 d. annotation:-Junie’s parents tell her that they are having a baby and at first she is upset about it. When the baby is born, Junie’s grandmother tells her that he is the cutest little monkey. Junie goes to school excited to have a monkey brother, but learns that that was an expression and he is just a normal baby. Junie still ends up happy about having a brother.-The book uses language that the students reading th
annotation:-Junie’s parents tell her that they are having a baby and at first she is upset about it.
When the baby is born, Junie’s grandmother tells her that he is the cutest little monkey.
Junie still ends up happy about having a brother.-The book uses language that the students reading the story would be able to relate to.
The tone of the book reflects the voice of many elementary age students.
e. discussion questions:		-What do you notice about Junie’s behavior?-How would you have reacted if your parents told you that they were having a baby?-Why does Junie think that her brother is a monkey?
I read this one to my daughter and I find Junie B.
The author really got inside the head of this five year old - the grammar at times is incorrect, but this helps to make Junie B.
come to life on the pages - as I read I feel like I am talking the way a bright and curious five year old would speak about her experiences.Emily (5 1/2): It was great because Junie B.
Jones thought her baby brother was a monkey!
I don't like the part where Grace and Lucille didn't want to play ponies with Junie B.
Junie B Jones is not happy in this book because her mom is going to have a baby.
Her grandma says that he is the cutest little monkey She does not understand why her friends are so excited to see the baby.
Her friends are offering to give her their favorite stuff.
She wants all new things because the baby is getting new stuff.
I think this is a good book for kids, so that they can realize getting a new sibling is a great thing.
This can help them realize how ridiculous Junie was being and they will want to act more mature to impress their parents.
I really wanted to like the Junie B.
Jones series.
This was our big introduction to chapter books for my Kindergartner but I couldn't get past the horrible language.
I can understand that Junie is supposed to be a little bratty, that's part of the character development and there is a lesson at the end but getting there was painful.
Never would I allow my children to be so disrespectful of others as Junie is in this book.
Jones books that we checked out will be going back to the library unread.
Another good and hilarious book in the nostalgic Junie B.
Jones series.Junie is kinda upset that she is having a new brother until she hears from her grandma that her brother is the "cutest little monkey".
Junie believes her brother is a real monkey and tells her friends at school, starting a fight between her friends Grace and Lucille.As always, I love Junie B.
Jones.
All of the books seem like they are being told by an actual fiesty 5 year old- Barbara Park is good like that.
I definitely remember these books from my childhood and I suggest that your kids read these books because they will love them :)
The writing is terrible and anti-productive for teaching kids learning to read, The main character is a hateful, disrespectful, socially aggressive brat. There's a lot of uses of words many small kids would consider "bad" such as "stupid". It's a cute story. & the art is nice.I get that the whole thing is ment to be funny. But mostly it's painful. And VERY annoying.This isn't the sort of behavior & character qualities is want to reinforce in my neice or any child. Not recommended.
Salah satu topik yang diangkat di novel seri kedua Junie B. Jones ini adalah pengaruh idiom bagi anak-anak. Idiom atau ungkapan seringkali belum bisa dimengerti anak-anak sama persis seperti yang orang dewasa maksudkan. Sudah lazim umumnya anak-anak akan memahami dengan polos seperti apa adanya yang disampaikan. Kita bilang A, maka yang ditangkap oleh mereka juga A, bukan A+. review lengkap http://www.lensabuku.com/2381/2-junie...
