https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/81948.The_E_Myth_Revisited
The Technician: a present-focused worker who concentrates on the task at handI had heard about The E-Myth and Michael Gerber in several places, and finally decided to read it when a successful business owner I respect recommended it so I could learn how to work on my business, not in it.
Attributes:• operated by people with the lowest possible skill (not necessarily unskilled, just lowest possible)• a place of impeccable order• all work documented in operations manuals• provides uniformly predictable service to the customerGive your customer the service he wants systematically, not personally.
About half a dozen important ideas buried in a mass of cloying, poorly written prose.The 268 pages dedicated to this text could have been cut to 60 and the book would have been better for it. As it is, prepare to skim.The author's habit of inventing characters that compliment him on his own ideas is a recurring and increasingly annoying technique. He also compliments his invented characters for their eloquence and drops repeated advertisements for his own company in the text. Classy.
If it weren't for the condescending, overly-simplistic, overly-drawn out, incessantly repetitive tone of this book, it would be good--it does have meaningful concepts, it just should have been twenty pages long.
This book took sixty pages to suggest that the poor overworked technician hire help.
Another fifty pages to explain that you need good processes so that you can hire low-skilled people.
Major turn-off and distraction from the content.Good book for people who think they have a skill that they can monetize but have little to no corporate experience.
I would not recommend it to anyone who has already been through the corporate America big business grinder.
The author uses a fictional small business owner who started a pie shop and running herself ragged.
She was thinking about how she her job was making and selling pies when her business could and should be so much more.Successful companies don’t actually sell the products that they make.
The only way he could make more money is to leverage himself in making CD’s, doing lectures, and yes, writing books.The third major point this book made was about systems.
The The E-Myth Revisited deals with two major misconceptions about running a business: that every small business owner is an entrepreneur and the assumption that working on your business is the same as working in your business. This book is an absolute must-read for business owners and while on occasion the writing is a little cheesy there are plenty of really important topics discussed in a clear, informative manner, which will help you grow your business in a productive and successful way.
I skimmed this book five years ago after hearing about it from some North Point staff members.
I had a chance to listen to the book this week, and will likely add it as required reading for all our new staff members.Great lessons:1) Most people get into business (ministry?) because they like doing something and wish they could do it for themselves.
Period.10) This is a book I'll probably add to my "Every January" list for the next few years alongside Acts, The Effective Executive, Getting Things Done, The Art of War, etc.
This book is appears in all must-read-business-books-lists.Well, not on mine.While I agree that standardization of processes can go long way, the McDonald's of the world already exist.
Trying to create another one, is as likely as to aiming to be the next Facebook.The way I work in the corporate world, and the way I see myself working in an enterprise of my own, isn't factory work, follow the manual and nothing but the manual, don't think just execute bogus.We're human working for humans, everyone is different, each need is unique, each problem as its solution.
While the approach should at least to have standard set of principals, I don't see myself hiring other people to serve as automatons...Maybe I missed the purpose of the book.Or maybe I'm just nayve.
I read this a few years ago.
and I said, "WHAT DID YOU JUST SAY?" (qualifies as one of the most rare phrases to escape his gorgeous lips) So I had to read it, see.It's actually pretty amazing.
I'm betting I'll never start my own business, because the things I do tend to be less-marketable services and commodities.
Reading, doing laundry, watching Buffy the Vampire Slayer...
Don't think you get paid for any of those things.
However, if I wanted to start my own business, hypothetically...
I now feel entirely qualified to do so.Happy entrepreneuring!
This book is an absolute MUST READ for anyone looking to start or manage a business. It's evergreen wisdom that will give you a nice foundation how to plan your business and the proper way to manage it. Even if you don't wanna start your own company this book will definitely help you understand more about business in general and how the structure of a stable company works. This is a really valuable book full of wisdom, don't miss out!
This could create a lot more freedom.Your business should be something you work on and not something you work in.Don't let it become just a miserable job.Have an end game, even if it is only a Tim Ferriss esque stasis.Quantify everything.Break your job down into every different "job"Hire unskilled people who want to learn because you can't hire good experts and if you did you wouldn't know what to do with them.Sex and cash: don't sell what you love.don't expect your business to be able to satisfy your need to paint/hack/write...
And they heard me every single time.""The work we do is a reflection of who we are.""Find a perceived need and fill it."Your Comfort Zone has been the curtain you have placed in front of your face and through which you view the world.
I've build a 6-figure business after resigning from my long corporate career, and I'm never going to go for the MBA, but listening to Michael Gerber's E-Myth Revisited book, I feel like I just went to overnight MBA School.I listened to the book at 1.5x the speed over several flights and learned SO MUCH and I feel that even if you are a pro small business owner, you'll get a lot out of this book.This is among my top 5 business books mainly because of the highlights below:1.
You get inspired, motivated, and learned how to run a small business in such a way that you can still love your life, love your work, make money and not be owned by it all.5.
The principles in this book are very good, and I think Gerber nails the reasons why so many small businesses fail.
The distinction between the roles of Entrepreneur, Technician and Manager are well thought out and reflect reality.The systems Gerber recommends putting into place are stringent, and I feel it would be difficult to transfer them to certain types of business - service businesses, and highly skilled technical businesses for example.
Nevertheless, some good points and ideas about business development, attitudes and systems are made.The downside to the book is that it's extremely wordy.

"A life laking in comprehensive structure is an aimless wreck. The absence of structure breads breakdown" - Quote from The Third Wave, Alvin Toffler. So Mr. Gerber makes the point that in a broken world our businesses need to be the shelter from the chaos with what Mr. Gerber calls "Impeccable order".“The difference between great people and everyone else is that great people create their lives actively, while everyone else is created by their lives, passively waiting to see where life takes them next." - Michael E. Gerber.
With a system (think game plan, plot structure, lesson plan) you are free to approach your business from a different perspective.
The jobs might all fall on your own shoulders at first but that's OK, at least you are approaching the work as a business and at some point you could hire people into the different jobs and give them a manual (you have a system now, remember?).
The only downside to Gerber's book is the rather artificial case study, Sarah and her pie shop, that keeps popping up at the end of every chapter.
همیشه به دنبال نوآوری و تغییر و آینده محوره.دلیل اصلی راه اندازی کسب و کارهای کوچیک این نیست که یک ایده خوب به ذهن فرد رسیده و می خواد اون رو پیاده کنه و تغییر ایجاد کنه.
بلکه دلیل اصلی اینه که فرد بعد از مدتی کار کردن توی یک حوزه و مسلط شدن به نحوه کار دلش نمی خواد رئیس داشته باشه و امر و نهی بشنوه.
دوست داره ارباب خودش باشه و کسب و کار خودش رو داشته باشه.مشکل اینه که کننده کار، یا همون تکنسین، هیچ چیزی از کارآفرینی و مدیریت نمی دونه.
Hands down the best book on business I've read yet. You often hear the same generic motivational narrative and watered down advice over and over. This book was the complete opposite - it shows you the core of what a business really is and gives you practical advice on starting a successful one. A must read for anyone into entrepreneurship, and even if you aren't it'll give you invaluable advice on how to use systems to achieve results in your every day life.
I got the gist of the message a few years back and it truly shaped my business and focus from that point forward.The E-Myth (Entrepreneurial Myth) is that businesses are started by entrepreneurs seeking profit.
The author states that there are 3 different roles that need to be covered in order for a small business to succeed: the technician, the manager and the entrepreneur.
In order to get over this hump and have a chance to succeed, they need to let go of part of the technician in themselves and embrace the manager and entrepreneur.Once a business grows and has more employees handling various roles in the business it is of utmost importance to systematize.
Understanding the E-Myth, and applying that understanding to creation and development of a small business, can be the secret to any business's success."To overcome this myth and it's accompanying challenges, the author argues for the deployment of a Franchise Prototype model.
This includes everything from the position contracts (organization chart), to operations manuals, to the standards for performance and accountability.6- Your Marketing Strategy: Knowing who your customer is (demographics) and why they buy (psychographics)7- Your Systems Strategy: The "set of things, actions, ideas and information that interact with each other, and in so doing, alter other systems."What sets this book apart is the analysis that the author performs, through a sample business, of issues small business owners encounter.
In fact, it's a lot more complex than that, and the book soon jumps from a dispassionate assessment of what makes a small business tick, to a departure into an analysis of life, the universe and everything.
I was more in the former camp, finding the more philosophical and existential chapters quite inspiring, while also finding it difficult to argue against the common sense advice Gerber gives about what makes a business operate efficiently.
While he makes it sound relatively simple and easy, you soon realise that what he is advocating is actually an immense amount of work and application.
في هذا الكتاب تجربة عمليه لمشاريع عده، سردت على شكل نصائح وقصص قصيرة حول مشاريع نجح أصحابها بأن يجعلوها حقيقية وناضجة وناجحه، غيربر يستعرض لنا تجربته ورؤيته في تحقيق مشروع صغير ناجح وذلك عندما استعرض لنا مشروع ( ساره ) صاحبة محل صغير اسمه ( الفطائر صنعتنا ) وكيف تحول من حلم ثم الى واقع وشغف ثم إلى عمل ومسؤوليه ثم كاد ان يفشل حتى لجأت له حتى يحييّ مشروعها مرة أخرى، هذه القصة دارت حولها كل التجارب والنصائح والأسئلة...
كتاب عملي أجاب على عدة اسئلة كانت تدور في عقلي، مليء بالمعلومات القيّمه والتجارب المُلهمه والنصائح المهمه والخطوات الجريئة والسريعه والبطيئة، والخطط القصيرة والطويلة المدى من أجل نجاح مشروع ما.
If you are starting a new business or organization, this is a must-read.Some takeaways:The Entrepreneur, the Technician, the Manager.The true product of a business isn't what it sells but how it sells it.The Entrepreneur asks, "Where is the opportunity?"Tom Watson, IBM: "Every day is devoted to business development, not doing business."Mr. Watson had a clear picture of what IBM would look like in the future and began to act like it in the present.You don't build a business by undercutting your competition but by leveraging your potential.How can I give my customer the results he wants systematically instead of personally.Creativity thinks up new things.
I've read this book 3 times now over the past 5 years... well, I read it once very thoroughly and marked it up with highlights and notes... then read/skimmed it the second and third times... truth is it drives me nuts when people invent characters/dialogue in these types of books, and it's even more annoying when the dialogue is unnatural. Grudges aside, it teaches excellent business principles and ideas and thus comes highly recommended for the ideas, just not for the writing style.
I am usually very skeptical about business books; there seems to be an endless stream of new books underlying 'revolutionary' theories on what to do and what not to do in business.
In spite of this skeptical mindset, I gave this book a chance as recommended by a friend.
Little did I know that I was destined to the best business book I have ever read.
He then dives deep into the importance of creating an easily-replicable prototype as a cornerstone for success and stresses the importance of building a system-based business rather than a person-based business.
This is a must-read for everyone.
I will definitely read again.
Here are some things from the book:- systematize as much as possible - people, organization, management, marketing- make things as simple as possible for employees.
Anyone who can follow simple instructions should be able to keep the business running.- don't make yourself indispensable or you'll be a slave to your business when it should be your business working for you- have a purpose.
It should be about adding value to peoples' livesThe last couple chapters talked about the purpose of business in general and were profound, I thought.
I definitely recommend this book to any aspiring entrepreneur or small business owner.
Specifically making sure that you are always working on your business.The overall message of this book is for small business owners to have systems and processes in place for their business.
A lot of business owners create systems that work great for today but as soon as they grow, the systems break down because they aren’t designed with a larger scale in mind.One thing I didn’t enjoy as much about this book was the relationship with Sarah, who he coaches throughout the book.
I just wasn’t that big of a fan.If you are thinking about starting a business or have been a business owner for a few years, this book is a great reminder of what can happen if you aren’t strategic in your business planning.
Recommended reading for entrepreneurs.Notes:Work on your business, not in it.A company is supposed t
Hiểu cho đúng thì làm business lúc nào cũng cần kiểm định từng ý tưởng mới của người quản lý, đòi hỏi người quản lý phải có tư duy đổi mới liên tục.
Tính mình là vậy, đã cầm một quyển sách lên là cứ phải đi từ đầu dẫu biết đọc có chọn lọc sẽ tốt hơn nhiều).
Cũng vì lý do này nên mình chỉ có thể rating sách 3/5 nhưng sẽ đọc lại khi có dịp cần dùng, sớm thôi!
This book is a must read!
Throughout the whole book I felt like Mr. Gerber was talking directly to me.
As a small business owner I must admit, I wish I had read this book sooner - it highlighted some of the mistakes I had made, as well explained certain processes and why they had occurred.
It's a quick and easy read, with the author (more or less) getting straight to the point.
If I was you, I'd definitely read this book, no matter if you're planning on starting a business or not - these are very much things worth knowing about!
