https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/38311414-house-of-sand-and-fog
Just an instant smear of me right out of all this rising and falling and nothing changing that feels like living.” In the beginning there was Kathy Nicolo.
Kathy really hates the idea of Colonel Behrani and his family in HER house.
Given what we know about Behrani he isn’t who Kathy thinks he is.
Kathy isn’t really who he thinks she is either.
As the plot advances we also find out that Lester isn’t who anyone thinks he is either.
Dubus reveals all the characters, even the second tier characters, with such depth that I felt like I know these people.
When the Shah of Iran is ousted and a revolution breaks out in the country, Colonel Massoud Behrani, a former colonel in the Iranian Air Force, and his family, once respected and well-to-do residents in their country, become nothing else but vulnerable immigrants to the United States where the only status left for them is to be called foreigners for the rest of their lives, even though they become full citizens.
We can think what we want and stagger from the harsh reality, the spotlight on society, but we cannot deny any human being a right to own a soul and be respected for who they are.
He moves his family from their apartment into the house.
They go through the system, hiring a lawyer to fight Kathy's wrongful eviction, but although the County admits the error, Behrani insists that he will not return the house unless he's paid what it's worth, not merely the low sum he paid at auction.
امیر مسعود بهرانی، یک سرهنگ نیروی هوایی شاهنشاهی ایران، در پی انقلاب سال 1357 هجری خورشیدی، همراه با همسرش نادیا، و پسر نوجوانش اسماعیل، به آمریکا کوچ می‌کند، و در سانفرانسیسکو ناگزیر می‌شود برای ادامه ی زندگی به سبک اشرافی گذشته‌ خویش، به کارهای سخت روی آورد.
uuuugh i hated this book!!!!!!
BUT before i start trashing it, i'll say that there is one thing i liked about it - the author's ability to give two completely different viewpoints and make the reader understand and empathize with them both.
i found myself rooting for each character at different times, for which i give credit to the author.
but when i look at the book as whole, i absolutely hated it!
first, the characters were put in the most absurd and unrealistic situations, the whole book was soooo unbelievable, i literally had to force myself to finish it.
He plans to renovate and flip it, using this as a stepping-stone to American Dream-level prosperity.Lester comes in as the deputy assigned to be sure Kathy gets out of the home that's no longer hers.
My withers were wrung about every twenty pages, and I took frequent breaks in order to console myself with excessive liquor consumption and sordid sexual escapades.I love a book that brings out the best in me.There's a scene where Lame-o Lester gets his first-ever BJ from Loser Kathy, which Dubus goes into in a bizarrely flat and affectless way that completely desxualizes the act, makes it a symptom of a pathology and not an erotic or intimate or even sexy development.
There are certain stories we know are going to end badly: yet we read them.
Yet we do that; and the stories which have the power to make us do so attain the pedestal reserved for great tragic works.This novel - outlining the doomed and intertwined lives of Behrani, a former colonel in Iran and now struggling to have a life of dignity in the USA; Kathy Nicolo, a pretty young woman given a raw deal by life; and Sheriff Lester Burdon, who falls in love with Kathy against his better judgement - is such a book.Read it, if you are up to it.13/02/2017The current anti-immigrant hysteria going on in US brought this novel to mind, again.
It was amazing.
In the first few chapters it seemed obvious who the good guy and who the bad guy in the story were, but I quickly found that line blurred and throughout the whole book I didn't know who to root for, I wanted them both to win.
The reason I only gave this book four stars instead of the five it should have deserved was because this book WAS amazing...
That's how he's ending the book?
Did I get a copy missing the last chapter?" The ending was not worthy of the rest of the book.
The reason I love this book is because it beautifully presents a problem from two sides, then let's the reader decide which side he or she supports. This isn't foxnews. The author transitions from chapter to chapter between the two main characters, using wonderful language for each, and then lets the reader decide. Neither of the characters were perfect, but neither could be classified as "bad guys". Andre Dubois III is my favorite modern author, his short stories are also amazing.
I have never had such a horribly visceral reaction to a novel.
The story unfolded tragically but the writing unraveled something worse.
The author only succeeded in presenting two sides of a story equally - I didn't care about either one, or the little abode (widows walk or not).To torture myself further, I watched the movie.
I am a fan of Ben Kingsley and couldn't possibly see how he would go blindly into such a disappointing set up.
You know how the movie is never as good as the book - this is one time where I was truly wishing would break that mold.
It left me wanting my time back.
The conflict that begins the story is that the county is auctioning off her house due to delinquent business tax payments because, you know, she's a recovering addict; they never open their mail, right?
It's summer, correct?So, Ms. Nicolo might be a pathetic recovering drug-addict, but it turns out that there is no reason that she should have paid a business tax in the first place, or rather, the county goofed on the exact address; the details in the book get a little hazy.
So imagine this house of sand and fog, a bungalow with a widow walk that looks out to the ocean; imagine a nice short jog to the beach, mornings and evenings covered in fog that protects and suffocates.
Beach life is simple, yet chic.
Yet the lives at this beach house are anything but simple; everything is complicated and tangled.
I'm not sure how Dubus writes another book that surpasses the psychological and physical layers of this one, layers that tugged and pulled at me as I read, layers that no movie can reveal as effortlessly as the book did.
I'll spare reviewing the entire plot, since I see many posters have done a fine job already.
My thought through this book was that Kathy was responsible for most of the problems in this story.
She was the one who ignored the tax notices (having answered them would have fixed the clerical error), she was the one who went to the Iranians home after being told not to by her lawyer, and she didn't stand up to her boyfriend when the situation went completely out of control.Granted, her entire life was sad and filled with poor choices....the most of which was ignoring her tax notices.The end was sad and left me depressed, but I thought about it for a few more days.
The two main characters, an Iranian military colonel under the Shah who brought his family to America after the fall of the Shah otherwise they would be excuted; and a recovering addict (Kathy) whose husband left her.
The third main character is a married deputy sheriff who falls in love with Kathy.
Their storm is due, in part, to "their tragic inability to understand one another" as stated on the back cover.
The book is written in the first person by some main characters and although it skips back and fourth, it was not confusing to me at all.
Well, even though House of Sand and Fog preceded the start of the housing boom, it's essentially the story of a house-flip gone horribly wrong.
The story starts wtih Kathy getting wrongfully evicted from her house for failure to pay the county taxes.
House of Sand and Fog is a genre novel - a contrived culture clash - burnished by Dubus' literary pedigree.
The book is structured so as to provide opposing first-person viewpoints: that of Massoud and Kathy.
I hate the ending and last few chapters with a certain hellfire, but the rest of it is so beautiful - written is such intricate, sensitive detail that you can't possibly dislike it, even when the characters derail into illogical extremes.
Their argument over this modest house near the beach, starts as somewhat of an annoyance and escalates into a complete volatile breakdown, all because of their pride, and inability to admit when they may have been wrong, or mistaken.The writing style is like poetry, it might as well be poetry for how beautiful it is.
But this time, knowing this was not simply another outline of some Middle Eastern man working physical wage labor in order to "Live the American Dream", but one that might actually end realistically, I read with much more excitement and vigor.
Kathy is devastated to find Behrani making renovations, seeing the inside completely changed when she visits his wife, the family wining and dining wealthy Iranians on the front lawn, and, most of all, when he almost immediately puts it on the market for sale.
There is nothing really wrong with this book.
It is appropriately heart-wrenching at the most critical point in the story.
Having said all that, maybe I should give it 5, or at least 4, stars, but I found that it isn't my kind of story in a way that I'm not sure I can explain.
Perhaps it's because it's like watching a car wreck, or people on a so-called reality show.
While many use the car-wreck analogy to mean they can't turn away, I never have trouble averting my eyes or changing the channel.
So I can only say that while I admire the book and I guess I 'like' it, I don't 'really' like it.
While I typically act high brow towards anything that is touted by the O, she has chosen to like some classics that I have, 'On the Road' being one of them.
Dubas' shaping of this character is actually poetic, though frustrating for a reader who learns that this negligence of responsibility is realistically in-defeatable in people who have committed human rights horrors.
Behrani is never a hero to the reader, or to me, but if weighed against Kathy Nicolo, becomes the moral winner.
Her character is so unchanging, so immature, unable to learn from mistake after mistake that you can not like her.
If anything, Kathy shows a degeneration.
House of Sand and Fog, a National Book Award finalist, is a story of an unresolved issue that entangles the lives of three people, and turns into a crushing conflict with tragic consequences.An in depth character analysis well worth the read.4 out of 5 stars.
This story gave the reader an inside look into an immigrant family, showing that they are "just like us," fighting for a place in this sometimes disgusting country.
He had come from a place where he had been considered a high rank, and I think he felt that he was failing his family and this house was his chance to make things better.
For Kathy, I thought the house was the only stable thing in her life - her husband had left her, she fell back into drinking, etc.
Too many paragraphs like "Around noon, I picked up my mail at the post office, then went to a shopping center sandwich shop to sift through it all while I ate.
It was only ten days' worth but it took up all of my table, and I put it in two piles, one for the trash can on the way out, one to keep.
The trash pile was mostly junk mail, the other was bills: car insurance, gas, my final phone, electric.
The electric bill was the most recent and I opened it and read the cutoff date for the last billing period: just two days ago.
It’s a slow-paced, sedate book where the reader feels as if they’re moving in a dreamy fog with the helpless characters who, despite effort, drift forward toward inevitable tragedy.
Even if Behrani embraces denial as a way of dealing with his past, and the wife looked away when life treated them well, he at least is trying to climb up to an American dream, unlike Kathy, who gets screwed over not only due to unfair city screw-up, but because she’s put herself in a self-pitying bubble so that tragedy just rolls over her.
And even though I didn't like the slowness of the beginning part of the novel, I wouldn't have had it any other way because Dubus uses most of the beginning to set up situations and characters and make them all three demensional and believable, which was something I really enjoyed about the book.
What was interesting about the book was the fact there was no clear protagonist in the idea of good guy vs.
Dubus has us constantly switching perspectives between our two main characters so we see behind their reasoning and begin to aggree with them.
This novel is a brilliant explication of what can happen when two desperate people's lives collide and become entwined.
Dubus' pacing is impressive; with each page one reads, the tension and desperation of each character's lives creep into the reader's consciousness.
These aren't necessarily likable characters - but what Dubus succeeds in doing is creating such a believable, involved psychological portrait of these two people, that pretty early on, the novel becomes a page-turner.
I agree with one poster who said Kathy Nicolo was very annoying, weak and pathetic.
Third, your boyfriend shows up at the house wielding a gun...why don't you say something?
Also, I didn't like the writing much.
The author kept putting in details just for the sake of putting in details, and if I had to read one more time about what the characters' breath smelled like I thought I was going to scream.
Perhaps I could understand Kathy not wanting to pursue getting the money from the lawsuit if the author had injected the slightest bit of emotional attachment to the house.
I think Dubus is amazing at voice and plot is definitely exciting but about 1/2 way into, my brain started kerplunking over passages and I felt like I was watching a mini-series and I was just anxious for it to be over.
I suppose he's entitled to take a little walk down fantasy lane with the characters he's created, I'm just saying it took a little away from the story for me.All that being said, I thought the hospital scene was amazing and the Colonels actions made me feel like retching (I mean that as a compliment to the author).This is a book I would/will/have recommend to people that say they're "not readers".
It took less than a chapter for me to realize this was not a book I wanted to finish.
The entire time I was reading that chapter I felt as if I were watching a car wreck.
It's not as if I demand a book be all happiness and sunshine but I didn't get the feeling that there was going to be anything redeeming about this book for me.
As much as I appreciate that Oprah has been instrumental in getting people to read, it seems to me that so many of her books are absolute downers.
I don't see how people can read her suggestions month to month and not feel utterly depressed.
The cop understands they are not “Arabs” but she never gets it.There’s some good writing, as in this description of a truck stop: “…dark place full of independent truckers coming off days on the road alone, men who wore their loneliness on their shirtsleeves like a badge in need of a polish.” We’re treated to a lot of pithy Iranian idioms: ““if there is no snake at your feet, do not lift rocks at the side of the road.” I also think it’s one of the best depictions I have read of the trauma a woman goes though in having an affair with a married man.
Most of this book was incredibly well-crafted. Dubus is exceptional at two things: 1) making real life struggles feel like a page-turner and 2) creating characters that alternate between likeable an unlikable, hero and villain. These two things make the book worth reading. But the book also has one huge flaw: the trigger for the plot is unrealistic and makes the main character unsympathetic throughout. Still recommended but at the expense of my suspension of disbelief.
They are all however incredibly human, with a depth and complexity to their actions and reactions that feel utterly real.The most important character of all isn't human at all, though.
It really is exactly like the title says, a house composed of ephemeral, shifting things, the things Kathy wants to hold on to and the things Behrani wants to achieve.
There's a real sense of the house shifting what it is, of being all things and all times to all people, as the book progresses.The prose is beautifully clear; not especially lyrical, but nicely fluid.
