https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/27523.Left_Behind
I'll get to that memory in a second, but first I must digress.I read this book for a student of mine.
Left Behind was her favourite novel (her favourite book was The Bible, obviously), and she asked me to read it just after we finished Blake's The Marriage of Heaven and Hell.
Early on I remember thinking, "What a brilliant book this would be if Tim LaHaye was a master of irony on the level of Jonathon Swift." Sure...nothing could save LeHaye's clunky prose, but if he conceived of Left Behind as a commentary on "fundamentalist believers" it would have been a stroke of genius approaching the level of A Modest Proposal.
In a story that presents so many interesting narrative possibilities - the grief of those "left behind" after The Rapture, the breakdown of society after a massive tragedy, the personal pain and soul-searching of those who believed they had faith but who were found wanting - and ignores them all in favor of people sitting on beds and talking on phones.
It's an ostensibly religious book without any real faith.This could have been such an interesting story, but the writing is so utterly awful that the series stands as dangerously bad.
Try to forget for a minute that there are people who take this stuff literally. The book actually works as a sort of sci-fi novel, the kind Robert Heinlein might have written for adolescents. The characters are paper thin and the truth is revealed to true believers. It is a scandal that this stuff sold so many copies. But it was worth the read to know what all the fuss was about. Entertaining, sure, but still a major eye-roller.
Baby-Sitters Club books (of which I read about fifty, and refuse to ever list on GoodReads) had more complex and well-developed characters.
Peretti, absolutely puts LaHaye and Jenkins to shame, and has a series of childrens' books with less presumptuous plots.
I usually have students fill out a card at the start of the semester with information like their major, where they went to high school, etc.
One thing I always ask is what book they read most recently.
The Left Behind series started showing up on those cards a lot a few years ago, so I decided to read the first one to see what they were like.
The dialogue is painful, the characters are wooden, the descriptions are hackneyed.
I skimmed it, right through to the unintentionally laughable end where the main characters are striding side by side down the street to go take on the evil-doers as the "Tribulation Force".
Apparently, the writing process for the LB books was as follows - LaHaye would write up a couple hundred page outline of notes and then submit the notes to his co-author Jenkins who would turn these notes into a story.
Jenkins set a goal of writing 20 pages a day, which means that within less than one month's time he could crank out a whole book.
Christianity in LB is more like a form of Manichean dualism than a religion of faith, hope, or love.
Most people do now know that I have read 7 of the 13 Left Behind books (12 actually, but then they threw on that extra one, and this is not counting the prequels, the kids versions and the horrendous graphic novels: Armageddon can pay off nicely as long as it's delayed).
Why?Originally I wanted to read something I knew going into the book that it would be shit.
Sadly this is a mainstream type of thought in this country, a non-thinking brand of religious mania being fed to people through shitty books like this one.
If this really happened, i would be one of the ones suffering through all this.
And what would it take for me turn and accept god....how many plauges and tribuations would i suffer through....You get to see how the whole world gets affected by this transition period, where the antichrist fights for his throne and god is ever angry....
a war between good and bad....Its long, theres so many books to this series, but if you are the least bit interested in what life would be like once god takes his chosen ones, and the rest of the world is left to fight off the devil/ antichrist....
This...should not be considered literature....This...is eschatological pornography...The narrative and dialogue within this series is simply pedestrian.
They manage to twist everything positive in the world today into proof that the devil is afoot (did you know the U.N. is apparently a tool for the anti-Christ?) The plot is bad, the premise, while interesting, is poorly expanded upon and the writing is just bad bad bad.I actually read another book, also by a conservative Christian, on the same theme that was infinitely better.
I wish I could remember the name of it, I'd recommend people who like this sort of stuff read it.
At least they might think at some point during their reading.Alas, this book was just inane, offensive, drivel.
I'd totally forgot that my mom actually paid me 50 dollars to read this book when I was about 11 or 12.
She wanted me to read the second and third books of the series as well.
I think I may have lied about reading the second one in order to get another payment.
The memory's a bit fuzzy on this.
The whole thing is actually kind of unsettling the more I think about it.
It's a bit of a drag having parents that really believe in Jesus and heaven and hell.Oh, and obviously this book was utterly terrible.
I set it down and moved on to other sections.That tickle in the back of my mind never quite left, and every Wednesday I saw those books still sitting there waiting for someone to come by and snag them.
The plane is set to autopilot and it’s going to be a long time before they touch down in England.
And if there’s one thing an analytical minded person doesn’t like, it’s being pushed too hard too fast.
But she had warned Rayford that God was going to rapture his church and if he didn’t follow her lead, he’d surely be left behind.
Apocalypse now -not.1935, 1943, 1972, 1975 - Herbert Armstrong, Church of God, said Jesus was here now, no maybe now, no, maybe now, no.....1954 - a Chicago housewife and leader of The Seekers said a flying saucer from the planet Clarion would cleanse the earth.1967 - Charles Manson and Jim Jones, psychopath Christians, told believers time to go was now.1980 - Stephen Swihart, author of prophetic signs book.1982 - The planets aligned, which caused religious folk panic - again.1982 - Benjamin Creme, believes Jesus (Maitreya) is living here on earth in secret since 1977.1988 - Edgar Whisenant, predicted the Rapture is happening now this year in 1988.1994 - Harold Camping, wrote a book saying 1994 was the year of Christ’s return.1995 - Aum Shinriko cult, Japan.1996 - Sheldon Nidle, who predicted 16 millions space ships would land, too.1997 - Marshall Applewhite, Heaven's Gate, followers going to Heaven on a comet, but first, suicide was necessary.
If you think all good books are well written, then this is probably isn't for you.
If you think good books have to be 100% accurate, then this book probably isn't for you.
However, if, like me much of the time, you think good fiction books should make you WANT to keep reading (even to the point of staying up late), then you may enjoy this book.
More than anything, it kept me very entertained and kept me interested, which is much more than I can say about the "well-written" book I was reading before this (cough...cough...watership down...cough...cough...).
Jenkins, Left Behind (Tyndale, 1995)So I figured after nine years, it was time for me to get around to reading the first book in the bestselling Christian fiction series in history, Left Behind.
At least LaHaye and Jenkins dropped the magic age to twelve, for which they must get grudging respect.But little niggling theological concerns are perhaps less galling than LaHaye and Jenkins' complete and utter inability to ascribe a mote of intelligence to any of their characters, and by inference any of their audience.
Writing a book like this as a mystery/thriller, it seems, was not the way to go.
This means that no matter where you fall on the devout scale you have someone to follow through the tribulations fo teh Rapture.
There's fun semi apocalyptic planes falling from sky disaster movie aftermath.
There's also the requisite semi-preachy "I'm discovering Jesus" passages, though they aren't as bad as I was expecting (though they are very prevalent, taking up 80% of the last parts of the book).
I'd actually compare the writing somewhat to a bad Stephen King novel.
It isn't fine literature, but it's decent enough to get the inventive fantasy ideas across (though don't go expecting King's trademarks or anything, it's a loose comparison).
if you grew up in church like i did, this first book of the series will terrify you. the rest will keep you spell bound. i would recommend these books to anyone though, they are fantastic and very well written. they reference scripture a lot and i like to book mark those places and go back and read the scripture later. its amazing.
But as knuckle-headedly indelicate (Jenkins describing Carpathia as "not unlike a young Robert Redford" on 114 and later Jenkins's character describing Carpathia as "a young Robert Redford" on 232) and heavy-handed ("you might be asking Carpathia to turn against his own angels" on 231) and weirdly unfunny when attempting to be funny (the entire flirtatious cookie exchange between Buck and Chloe: 365-367 and 372-375) and cringingly pedestrian ("He knew Hattie was not a bad person.
There are flashes of bizarre homoerotic subtext, from the naming of characters (Buck, Rayford Steele, Dirk, Steve Plank) to double entendric prose (e.g.
Finally got a chance to reread this and being old then i was the first time and learning more abour the bible then i did when i first read it, i have more theories and questions but I think the left behind series does a pretty good job of what will happen one day.
I read the whole series but I can't remember which book was which at this point.
Everyone who was "left behind" has to figure out what happened.
The story unfolds over the books and you get to watch people come to terms with the reality of the situation.
The series as a whole was compelling, but I think it is broken up into too many books.
Actually, I think I kept going b/c I knew how the story was going to end.
I really believe that the facts behind this fiction are a true picture of what the Bible says will happen.
Read this book for what it is - entertainment, not an eschatology textbook.
LaHaye has written many books explaining his views on the end times - if you want the "why" on this subject, almost anything by Tim LaHaye will do; here he is just having fun.
This is a fast paced novel so if you read this book expecting a lesson in eschatology, you will probably be disappointed.
Students of the Bible who maintain an amillenial view of the end times will probably just be annoyed.In my opinion, book 2 of this series was just as good as this first one.
I wonder exactly how people get sucked into completely illogical, mind-numbingly stupid, culty shit like Christianity End Times Rapture Prophecies, etc" then you can read this book and imagine that you are a person who is such a shallow empty vessel that this book can fill you up.At no point was I ever thinking "Wow, if The Rapture happened in my lifetime, here's how I would react to that situation." or "If this happened to me, here are the people I think would disappear, and here's who would be left, and here's how society would cope." I mean, there was literally never a single moment where I could relate to the plot or characters on any level -- and I want to be perfectly clear, I emotionally relate to many kinds of fiction.
One of my managers at work actually reccomended this book to me after I told I had read 'The Road'.
I have to admit that I was skeptical going into this book only because I knew some of the background due to publicity surrounding the movies.
I didn't feel much like reading a bunch of quoted Bible scripture - but I was happy to discover that there wasn't much of that in the book.The story focuses primarily around a core group of characters all tied together following a mysterious worldwide disappearance of people.
I'll use this one review for all the books of this series I've read (just to save time)and that's inclusive of 1-10.
I truly enjoyed them, some a little more than others, but that's probably more of a reaction to my over indulgence than anything on the authors part (I was averaging three or four a week around school, yeah too much, kind of like a kid having too much candy and getting ill) These books are creative, action packed, display the gospel credibly and made me care about the characters.
If you like ridiculously long series, Biblical perspectives and a fun cast of characters these are definitely for you!
Not worth the paper it's printed on, what a piece of shit, I couldn't even finish it.
It is THAT BAD.
I read it (or tried to) when it first came out and was causing such a buzz in the Christian community, I wanted to see what it was all about.
It's SO poorly written, the characters are as one dimensional as possible, the dialogue is SO bad, there aren't enough words to describe how B-A-D this book is.
I am dumbfounded - there are actually millions of people who read this and the many sequels, and they LOVED it?
Jenkins is one of those books that has become a Christian fiction classic.
I've read and enjoyed this book several times.
It seems like many of the negative reviewers of this book treat it like it's supposed to be a nonfiction, completely accurate description of the end times.
I think the best way to look at this book is as it is written - a fictional book.
I take it as more of a "what if?" scenario of the end times.
This is just a fun book, and a thrilling page turner.
Read this book and enjoy it for what it is, don't dissect it into a theological treatise.
3 stars
some of the worst books, ever, god bless them!i derive a sort of masochistic pleasure in reading them.
i couldn't actually spend that time simply reading....i was reading and doing yardwork, or knitting, or something productive.these books suck!
oh god, do they suck.
they had potential for excellent apocalyptic death, disaster and destruction...but they were too heavy on the finding-jesus part, and too light on the destruction part.
stephen king should have written these.still....one of these days i have to find out what happens when jesus comes back!
does rayford steele turn into a beam of light and float up into the heavens?
The concept is great: what would the Biblical end times prophecies really look like if they happened today?
In my experience, real people and real relationships aren't much like those portrayed.Of course, not all literature has to have great character development...
Like the equally exciting thriller "The Da Vinci Code", these books are mass marketing with a light and easy religious agenda.
Sadly, many of today's Christians will read these novels and probably never read or study the actual texts they are based on.Perhaps if they were marketed instead as the brain candy they really are I could enjoy them a bit more.
Jeigu, pabrėžiu, jeigu - esate tikintis, religingas ir norite biblinėmis ir/ar apokaliptinėmis ir panašiomis temomis sukalto suspense/detective žanro mišinio su, kaip ir dera (post)apokaliptiniams romanams, distopijos ar mistikos priemaiša, tada šita knyga, netgi gal ir visa serija, tikrai visai patiks.
Na, sakykim taip - tai nebuvo pati blogiausia mano skaityta knyga,tuolab, kad ir porą tęsinių perskaičiau, bet tas nuolatinis preach'inimas galiausiai tikrai smarkiai pradeda lįst po oda.
Žodžiu, jei einat į bažnyčią ne dėl to, kad "tipo, reikia, ką žmonės pagalvos", tai skaitykit.
Jei ne, tai siūlyčiau, nors ir ne itin primygtinai, skipint šitą deal'ą.
