https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/32525.Art_Through_the_Ages
It, like all following editions, was organized chronologically beginning with "The Birth of Art" in the Upper Paleolithic and progressing in a mainly chronological sequence to the contemporary period.تاریخ نخستین نگرش: یکی از روزهای ماه مارس سال 1987 میلادیعنوان: هنر در گذر زمان؛ نویسنده: هلن گاردنر؛ تجدیدنظر: هورست دلاکروا؛ ریچارد ج.
تنسی؛ مترجم: محمدعلی فرامرزی؛ تهران؛ آگاه، نگاه، 1365؛ در 811 ص؛ نقشه؛ مصور، بخشی رنگی؛ کتابنامه دارد؛ چاپ دوم 1370؛ شابک چاپ سوم 1374: ایکس - 964416024؛ چاپ پنجم 1381؛ ششم 1384؛ نهم 1387؛ موضوع: تاریخ هنر - سده 20 مهنر در گذر زمان در مورد تاریخ هنر جهان، و سبک‌های مختلف هنری ست.

حسم بعد از تموم کردن این کتاب مثل برگشتن از یه سفر طولانیه؛ یه سفر چهارماهه به گوشه و کنار فرهنگ جهان و قرون گذشته، در کنار یه تورلیدر خبره که زوایای پیدا و پنهان فرهنگ‌های مختلف رو از منظر آثار هنری بهت نشون میده و تفسیرشون می‌کنه.
یه ایراد دیگه توی ترجمۀ کتاب، اینه که برای اسم هنرمندا و آثار، پانویس نداره و فقط اصطلاحات تخصصی رو انتهای کتاب فهرست کرده.
هرکسی که توی هر حوزه‌ای از علوم انسانی داره فعالیت می‌کنه و می‌خونه، به‌نظرم لازمه یه دوره تاریخ هنر رو حتما بخونه.
تاریخ هنر قدیمی و مرجع و کاملا استفاده شده در کتاب های درسی هنرستان... با ترتیبی خوب و عکس های کثیر تاریخ هنر رو توضیح داده
I really did read this textbook cover to cover, for an AP Art History class. From ancient to modern - it gives a good summary. Not good for in-depth knowledge on specific topics. The broad range of topics led me to do my own research and helped me with Renaissance, Modern and American Art History courses. Anyone who wants to gain some knowledge of art history should skim the text for terms to throw around in a museum to sound decently knowledgeable. The language is straight forward – heck it has pretty pictures, what else do you want?
This is the best textbook I ever had. Sadly, all the history I know comes from this book. I can't say if it is a good art-history book, since all the art-history I learned came from here, but I know it is very informative and interesting from 'the layman's perspective' (for lack of a less annoying term). Also, I have officially decided that this is one of my desert-island books, since I could spend practically forever reading it.
این کتاب قطور توسط محمدتقی فرامرزی به فارسی برگردانده شده و همراه با تصاویر کتاب اصلی توسط انتشارات آگاه در 1365 چاپ و منتشر شده است.
When I was in college as a freshman, this textbook was assigned for a survey class. It was the first textbook I've ever decided to keep and since then, I have read it almost entirely. I don't have an AH degree or anything like that, but as a enthusiast I wuld recommend it for anyone who aspires to broaden their understanding of the history of art. It's easy to read, the annotations are terrific and I just really enjoy it.
This was my college text book. The current editors (at the time) were my college professors. I've read this and re-read this countless times through my life time. Like all great history books there are newly discovered names every time you re-read it. Fabulous general reference.
میتوان جز کتابهای جامع تاریخ هنر دسته بندی کرد.البته در هنر قرن20 به خلاصه گویی رسیده
Art Through the Ages was used during both of my Art History courses that I took in my undergraduate studio art program.
I really enjoyed the sections of this book that we studied.
It gives a broad, yet comprehensive, view about how art has progressed over time and the historical events that influenced its development.
I found it easy to read and understand and really enjoyed the numerous color photos found through out the text.
However, I can say that it's also one of the only text books I kept from my college days because it contains such a wealth of useful information.
I had to read the entire book in a school year for my art history class, and although there was a lot to get through, it is a quality textbook. Interesting to read with a good format and a large amount of information. I would recommend it to anyone into art history with a need for a compendium of all art from prehistoric to 20th century.
I read this book in college and found it to be very educational and enjoyable. I have enjoyed pulling this book out for review several times since then. I recently read a great book called, "The Art Dockuments" by author Carlton Davis. This a non-fiction book with a collection of stories about the Los Angeles art gallery in the 1980s. http://artdock.net/
My primary text book
A veritable tome of a book that is used as a main text book for visual art, but a great reference work for art enthusiasts. Worth every cent ... one of those books that takes pride of place on any book shelf at home.
Can a textbook be a favorite book?
This book opened up an entire world when I first read it in high school, creating a passion for art history that has carried over to me for these past four, nearly five, years.
Without this book, I wouldn't have had the multitude of positive experiences at museums and art sites around the world.
I would not have gained so much appreciation and wisdom.
This book, frankly, is the best to introduce yourself to the wonderful world of human creation and to create an insatiable desire to learn more about the human experience as seen through art.
Up until reading this I'd only read one general survey of art history, and that, years before. John Elkin, once a student of the Art Institute in Chicago, had used this as a school text and recommended it as a good general survey. It was.
Great survey of the history of art. Originally published in the 1920's it remains the standard and most used. It has gone through zillions of editions. More recent versions come with a CD/DVD of photos.
This is the 9th edition, hardcover. Comprehensive in terms of western art, with a good representation of non-European influences, it is understandably considered a standard text of art history education.
Screw you AP Art History.
History
OK, so I read this for school, which tempers it a bit, but overall I found it a clear, easy-to-read history of art, good for getting an overview of a variety of periods, styles, and artists.
textbook from college
5/5: A great summary of art and history through the standard chronology and placement beginning with the middle east, traversing through to europe, america, and including some african and asian art. I imagine it would be best read for a class, as the experience was most satisfying when I understood how each era influences the next, and how the different styles relate to each other, and it was difficult to come back to the book after a couple of months and remember what had happened previously. This was my first art history book, and I really enjoyed it!
A well written book. Enjoyed reading it.
A well written book. Enjoyed reading it.
A well written book. Enjoyed reading it.
A well written book. Enjoyed reading it.
A well written book. Enjoyed reading it.
Good Art History text book. Worth keeping.
A well written book. Enjoyed reading it.
