https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2975046-a-daughter-s-a-daughter
I loved this book :D I was actually a bit 'afraid' that being a great fan of her crime stories I might not entirely enjoy such a different genre.
One could say that the story is written in a bit (sic!) obsolete mode and thus not applying to the modern (post-modern) world/lifestyle or at least not discovering anything new or appealing in respect of relationships and the overcommercialised notion of happiness.
The fact that this book was written some time ago proves only that the perennial questions remain, no matter how much the world changes and how much we change.
This is the first book by Mary Westmacott I have read, so far.I was almost abandoning it but I was curious with the enrollment of the main characters.The Telegraph: A Daughter's a Daughter shows Agatha Christie's powerThe Guardian: A Daughter's a Daughter.2* A Daughter's a DaughterTR Absent In The SpringTR The Burden
Jalousie, vengeance, manipulation, ce roman à l'humour pince sans rire et au cynisme féroce sonne si juste qu'on pourrait presque s'y reconnaître !Ann est une jeune veuve séduisante et Sarah, sa fille, sort à peine de l'adolescence.
Une solide et profonde affection semble les unir mais lorsque la mère, qui n'est pas sans charme, décide de refaire sa vie, leur relation tourne rapidement à l'aigre...
Avec l'extrême habilité d'Agatha Christie, Mary Westmacott apporte à autant de questions une réponse surprenante et juste !Vif, piquant, à la fois léger mais aussi très cynique, Ainsi vont les filles est un petit bijou de sarcasme et d'humour noir à lire absolument !
Kiedy rozmyśla nad swoim życiem, pojawia się w jej głowie myśl: „Dawniej córki były po to, żeby usługiwać rodzicom, nie odwrotnie”[1].Jaką matką jest Anna?
Anna, która przez lata spełniała się w roli matki i pani domu, traci grunt pod nogami.Czym wypełni sobie życie?Werbalizuje obawy przed przyjaciółką Laurą, pełniącą rolę głosu rozsądku, mistrza i terapeuty.
Nie mają czy nie chcą mieć?Wychowana w ślepym posłuszeństwie wobec rodziców Anna daje swojej córce całkowitą wolność, taką, jakiej pragnęłaby dla siebie, jaką częściowo udało jej się uzyskać w dojrzałym wieku.AKT IIISara wyszła za mąż, ale nie jest szczęśliwa.

The story is extremely engaging and the protogonists, mother and daughter with their dialogues alive and often not so sincere with themselves. Living in a society of appearances and with luxuries trying to disguise age and deceive time.But I believe we should not blame children or parents for our own and decisions. But in reality, blaming others is what happens most.
'a son's a son till he gets him a wife. but a daughter's a daughter all you life.' Beautiful. Simply beautiful. It has go such raw feelings that I lack words describing it. It's no secret that Agatha Christie is a phenomenal writer and I wouldn't go as far as saying that I'm a huge reader of her books. I'm not. I recently started reading Agatha Christie after a friend of mine gifted me on of her crime books. I got hooked so naturally I went on a Agatha Christie spree..I wanted to try new genre
I recently started reading Agatha Christie after a friend of mine gifted me on of her crime books.
The story of a bitter-sweet possessive daughter and the gentle mother at first slowly turning into a war filled with hidden jealousy and fake happiness.The romance between Ann and Richard was not quite good, if I say so myself.
During the first half of the book, she was childish jealous and conventional but as years expanded she was turning into something else- what she referred to as 'being gay and lively'.
I picked up this book thinking it to be a detective fiction. But I was surprised to see that it was not of the crime genre but that of drama. I had my doubts as to whether Agatha Christie can do a good job. But looks like she can! The book should be appraised for its originality and the depth of the characters.
I guess I am going through an Agatha Christie phase and reading her non-mystery books that just describe human relations. This is a great book for all mothers to read, not only those with daughters.
Hard hitting and cynical. Typical Mary Westmacott.Agatha Christie had to sweeten up when she started writing popular novels.This is before that time, a very interesting read.
Agatha Christie shows a beautiful relationship of a mother and her daughter with all the love, care, affection, loneliness, envy, sacrifice and drama portrayed beautifully.
But for a child it is not easy to see some strange person taking away his/ her parent and the love which is he/she has the right to.
Sarah being just a child is jealous and does not want any change around her leading to yet another big sacrifice of letting go of person she loves for her only daughter.
The way Agatha Christie portrayed the distance evolved between the mother and her daughter is slow, dramatic , disturbing and heart breaking.
Ici pas d'effusions de sang mais plutôt des sentiments retenus, des non dits et une rancœur rampante entre la mère (Ann) et sa fille (Sarah)...
J'aime beaucoup la manière dont les sentiments des deux protagonistes sont expliqués tout comme les interventions extérieures et l'évolution des personnages sur plusieurs années.
La fin est très jolie sans être parfaitement heureuse et j'ai apprécié cette ambivalence.Ce que j'aime : la manière dont les personnages évoluent, la finCe que j'aime moins : Quelqu'un aurait du s'en mêler bien avant !En bref : Un roman qui exploite à fond les faiblesses humaines et la notion de sacrifice Ma note7/10
This is the story of Ann Prentice and her daughter, Sarah, an only child.
The story may have been first published in 1952 but it is an ageless story of a mother and daughter's relationship that turns to turmoil as the mother announces that she will marry again.
Don't miss reading more about the novels by Christie's daughter, Rosalind Hicks...https://www.agathachristie.com/about-...I am looking forward (and yet a little sad too!) to reading the next and last romance written by Agatha Christie as Mary Westmacott titled, "The Burden."
I picked this up at the op-shop and finished it in one go, having always wanted to read one of Christie's novels as Westmacott.
It's very light, not reaching the level of genius of works like The Hollow or Endless Night, but has that lovely Christie assurance and wit, especially embodied in the character of Dame Laura.
I especially loved that the central tension, while spun around a romance plot, was between mother and daughter, with the hope of a reconciliation pushed further and further back as resentment, not necessarily misunderstanding, pushed the two women to the brink of desperate loneliness.
At the beginning I wasn’t that much excited with the story, I used to read it only when I get free time which can be one day in a month, but even though time passed I still could remember where I last stopped reading and the scenario kept rolling in my mind calling me to hold the book again and continue reading it.
It continued like this until I reached the last chapter.
From there I couldn’t stop reading anymore and engaged with it too much to the level I used to cry with scenarios happening.
I somewhat enjoyed this book, because I like to read books set in England in the past. However, even given the time it was set in, the characters irritated me with their values, etc. The daughter was a spoiled brat who deliberately broke up her sweet mothers romance. Afterward, the sweet mother was no longer sweet, the daughter married a "rotter" and the mother was glad that she was unhappy. Never any true conversation between them till the very last as the daughter is flying off to Canada.
When Ann meets Richard Cauldfield and falls in love it sets the cat amongst the pigeons with her daughter Sarah.Both have an instinctive dislike of the other and each wants the other out of the way but who will win this battle of the wills?Moreover how will those decisions made then about what to do for the best and whom should Ann choose will have dire consequences for all concerned many years in the future....A cleverly crafted tale of possessive love and its destructive consequences.
I have grown up on a healthy dose of murder mysteries by Agatha Christie, but was curious to read her books under the pen name of Mary Westmacott. This book is far from a mystery, but is a good reading of human relationships and psychology, at least for a novice ( I do not know how and when can one be called a master of human psychology). And a good knowledge if human behaviour was what gave Poirot and Miss Marple their advantages, right? All in all a refreshing read!
I’m a big fan of Agatha Christie mysteries, but didn’t like this crossover into a more psychological drama. I suppose I like the morality of the mysteries, and the resolution of conflict with murder. It seems neater than the painful unresolved mess of “real” life.
Je n'ai pas réussi à me plonger dans ce roman. Les personnages ne m'ont pas intéressée ni vraiment leur histoire.
Enjoyed this. Slowly working my way through Agatha's non- crime books.
Rather gorgeous, if slight, drawing room drama with a dark underbelly.
Simple and brilliant story about a mother and daughter and the absolute complexity of their relationship. The dialogue is fascinating and I liked that is spans several years of the girls like.
One of six novels which Agatha Christie wrote under the pseudonym of Mary Westmacott which explored romance rather than mystery, I was anxious to see what this would offer.
Though the language is somewhat stilted and the book's situations unfold in what may be seen as though one were watching an English drawing room play come to life, it is an enjoyable book to read.
With this under my belt, I've read all six of the novels Agatha Christie wrote under the pseudonym of Mary Westmacott.
I have two primary thoughts about the whole series, and about Christie as a writer.
In a way, the murder mystery serves as an enormously effective setting for the human entanglements, like a thunderstorm, except that, of course, it is presented as the story's main plot.
Christie's ability to interweave the two is, I believe, the secret of her great art as a writer.
She very rightly only wrote six "straight" novels, as opposed to over eighty mysteries, because they lack this sublime characteristic.
Но это же Кристи, с ней не хочется расставаться и поэтому я попыталась разглядеть другую сторону её творчества.Я не помню, кто именно здесь в жж посоветовал мне эту прекрасную книгу, но скажу большое спасибо - потому что мне понравилось.
Да, книга не стала любимой навека, но все же я вспоминаю о ней и впечатление не стирается, как это бывает с другими книгами, которые прочитаешь и забудешь.
Все прекрасно понимают, что это и ревность, и зависть, и нежелание делить с кем бы то ни было родного человека.
What challenges the reader is that, for every one of Christie's genuine insights into human nature, there is a cliche expressed as sheer truth.
Hence the first three Westmacott books are worthy reads, as long as you accept that they are striving to be truthful human stories rather than self-consciously "literature" (which they are not).
Still, even though I don't think this one matches those three, it is certainly better than "The Rose and the Yew Tree" and worth reading for fans of the author, perhaps because there seems like more of a genuine truth being explored here.
Agora que Sarah já é adulta, a dedicada mãe começa a prestar atenção em sua vida novamente e até mesmo se apaixona, o que desperta os ciúmes da filha possessiva, que acaba iniciando uma "guerra fria" entre as duas.Após ler em algum lugar que Sarah teria sido inspirada na própria filha de Christie, começo a desconfiar que a autora utilizada esses livros escritos sob pseudônimo para contar histórias de sua própria vida e de pessoas próximas.
Gerry é outro personagem que aparece pouco, mas tem um papel importante na vida de Sarah.
Ao ler as resenhas sobre esse livro, percebi a mesma sensação:Agatha sabe "esmiuçar" os segredos que
Książka napisana niby niezłym językiem i poruszająca parę zmuszajacych do myślenia problemów, ale jako całokształt - nudnawa. Brakowało 'tego czegoś', po prostu jedna z licznych, niczym się nie wyróżniających książek. Chciałabym dac 3 gwiazdki, ale problem jest taki, że nie poleciłabym tego nikomu, bo nie warto czytać mało interesujących książek, nawet jeśli nie mają jakichś szczególnych wad.Tak w kwestii bohaterów, nie znosiłam Ann (a jej facetowi życzyłam porwania przez kosmitów, doprawdy, to by przynajmniej ubarwiło całą powieść) - kompletnie pozbawiona charakteru i irytująca w swojej nijakości. W konflikcie z Sarah w absolutnie kazdym punkcie byłam po stronie córki.
