https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/353598.Black_Feminist_Thought
This was just the book I needed to read, I encountered lots of names I probably wouldn't have come across otherwise.The line which stated that black women were "de mule uh de world," (Hurston) and also being seen as nurturers rang true to me from what I've seen and discussions I've had with people.
I think about how difficult it has historically been for black women to get their words out there and I appreciate this book even more.
I don't think I've ever come across a book that details black feminist theory so thoroughly.
She identifies two historical factors that helped foster the critical social theory of Black US women: ghettoisation, which was designed for political control, but had the effect of enabling community structures and spaces for Black people to use African-derived ideas to craft resistance to racial oppression, and Black women's positions in the labour market as domestic workers, in close proximity to Whites, giving them a perspective that Collins terms outsider-within, also applicable to Black women in many institutions.She asks how do Black women in the academy 'find ways of doing intellectual work that challenge injustice'?
Everyone should read this book. I read this for the first time during a women's studies course as an undergrad, but it works so well, as she states, outside of academia. I find her analysis of Black female blues singers as a source of feminist thought especially interesting. Anyone and everyone interested in social justice should read this book. And then read it again.
What I loved the most about this book is that it is an academic text, but PCH doesn't waste time with jargon. If she uses it, she defines it almost immediately. There is also a glossary in the back of the book. A book that I will use a lot. So happy I was pushed to revisit this text.
Took a long time for me to finish this book, as it is very much a textbook...and I've been out of grad school for a few years now. The most recent edition isn't available at my library, so I read this 2nd Ed. I may still seek out the newer edition.Recommended for anyone interested in feminist theories, political thought, and human rights
This book creates an argument about the particular experiences of groups of people and overarching theories of knowledge.
I think I have already undergone that epistemological shift.
Because this book has been around for awhile, I don't know how much of that insight actually came to me through other people who read it.
I only wish I'd read the first edition of this book when it first came out!
I think it ties together a lot of my other reading from that time.
She offers an explored analysis of the intersections of race, gender, sexuality and class as well as its practical applications. She discuss self-identification, the politics of self empowerment, how woman are essential elements in nationalist thinking and etc. I do wish she discussed the politics of sexuality a bit more.
This book blew my mind. One of the most impressive parts of it is P.H.C.'s command of black women's history in the U.S. It's so exciting to read about women who have produced "black feminist thought" in the U.S. through writing, music, and oral history since early 1800s, and before.
if u claim that u're an ally/progressive advocate of feminism, then do urself a favor & read this
4.5/5 In my own work I write no only what I want to read—understanding fully and indelibly that if I don't do it no one else is so vitally interested, or capable of doing it to my satisfaction—I write all the things I should have been able to read[.]-Alice Walker[I]t is axiomatic that if we do not define ourselves for ourselves, we will be defined by others—for their use and to our detriment[.]-Audre Lorde It's been good to get back into theory after so long a drought. My eagerness to rid my she
As much reading as I've done in my life, I hadn't come across a text deemed academically credible that touched upon the cornerstone of my evaluating procedure, which takes into account the natural tendency of writing of any form to indoctrinate and, as a result, expects that authors give evidence that they know what they're doing and don't consider the trajectory of a fiction scribbler a free ride to spewing hatred and being congratulated for it.
Viewing an Afrocentric feminist epistemology in this way challenges additive analyses of oppression claiming that Black women have a more accurate view of oppression than do other groups.
La pensée féministe noire m'a aussi fait cet essai, après avoir lu bell hooks, Elsa Dorlin, Kimberlé Crenshaw, le livre de Bilge et Collins sur l'intersecitonnalité et de très nombreux autres textes, j'apprends peu de nouveaux concepts, bien que le caractère très académique de l'essai me permet de solidifier ma compréhension de ceux-ci (et le fait que l'ouvrage a été retravaillé récemment me laisse croire au peu de changement qu'ils auront subis et de sa compréhension).
This author says in the intro "I'm going to say this in the most basic language possible so it's very accessible." This was not true lol. But it was still good and thought-provoking and a great synthesis of a lot of seemingly disparate work into one big thing. Pretty cool.
This book was my guiding light while working on my thesis, "Deconstructing Auth Jemima." Patricia Hill Collins is underread and underrated. I want to sit at her feet. It remains an important reference book.
While I enjoyed her theories, her writing style is unnecessarily obtuse and repetitive.
I especially like when Collins uses non-academic statements from black women talking about their own direct experiences to illustrate her points.
I found myself quoting some of that in my day to day conversations with people.There were a couple of moments where I was like, "Is it weird to be a white dude reading this?" But I think, even though there are sadly very few black women in my environment right now, that it is all somehow extremely relevant.

Unfortunately I wasn't able to finish the book yet (due back at the library) but I can speak to what I read so far.
This is an important read for feminist theorists, and feminists in general.
As a white woman, this book was especially enlightening, though I want to stress that I am not the target audience, either.
My main criticism is the redundancy and length; I think this work would have benefited from some word trimming and condensing, as I often struggled to remain focused and/or found myself often thinking "okay, cmon, you've already said this.
This is an incredibly helpful book. Collins makes a few constructive arguments, but for the most part offers an overview of the major themes in black feminist thought, offering a repository and guidebook to those new to the discipline.
Absolutely brilliant. Longer review to come.
I had the privilege of being one of Dr. Collin's students at the University of Cincinnati. I learned so much from this woman and her gender study class. She along with some other great writers such a Bell Hooks and others helped me shape my own definition of what it means to be a black woman in America.
I really like Patricia Hill Collins and this is no exception, though I found much of what she filed under "Black feminism" really applied to feminism writ large. Still, it's an important work and very readable.
Un livre tout simplement essentiel pour comprendre les racines du black feminism. Les passages épistémologiques sont révolutionnaires en soi. Une déconstruction des institutions universitaires et des figures intellectuelles traditionnelles blanches. À lire absolument.
I've loved her work since Women Studies classes
patricia hill collins is one of the most important voices in feminism. this book is a must read...especially the 10th anniv. ed. because she updates her research and further develops her arguments.
thank you pat for writing this and changing the world!
Part of reading for a grad school class...worth it!!!!
Finally got around to reading this all the way through. It is awesome. Duh.
Really touches on the intricacies of black female identity.
Flashback to August, 1995. The book that changed my life during the first year of college.
I've pulled out her own basic summary of what she wants this book to do and be, because it highlights what is missing from much other work, and because it is ambitious and beautiful and she almost does it all: First, I was committed to making this book intellectually rigorous, well researched, and accessible to more than the select few fortunate enough to receive elite educations.Second, I place Black women's experiences and ideas at the center of analysis...I take a similar stance regarding Marxist social theory and Afrocentric thought.
