https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/54576.Envy
You can squeeze her out like a tube of liver paste.
By her door, on a stool, stood a basin, with some loose hairs floating on the water.Nice.
(This widow Prokopovich, btw, plays a secondary role in the novel, but even so deserves an honourable mention as one of the great Elemental Females in literature).All in all, Envy is very much what grumpy old critics call a young man's novel: it's smart-alecky, hopped-up and occassionally bored with its own plot devices and schematic characters.
Kavalerov soon joins forces with Andrei’s envious brother Ivan, and together they set out to smash Andrei Babichev’s dream.Although the book bored me and puzzled me at times, I get the feeling some of this due to the translation, and some of it to my own inadequate knowledge of the culture of the early days of the Stalin's Soviet Union.
The gypsy was walking slowly, the bowl was rocking gently, and the afternoon was spinning in its disk.The fellow travelers watched it go.And the disk set, like the sun.
This book made me realize the way that satire, if taken to a linguistic (if not necessarily logical) extreme, can actually turn inside out and become a form of praise.
Olesha's narrator keeps talking about how much he hates, but his language is so lively that eventually you come to see him as a creature posessed, not by anger, but by a strange and uncontrollable joy.
(Another way to look at this book is to think of what Nathaniel West might have been like if he hadn't been Puritanically terrified of his own comedy.
But Olesha's book is practically a fairy tale.)
This starts off well: Mornings he sings on the toilet.It’s an observation made by Nikolai Kavalerov, our narrator, of Andrei Babichev.
Andrei has managed to play the Soviet game and has done quite well for himself, well enough anyhow to sing on the toilet in the morning.
I get that that was then and this is now and I’m hardly politically correct, but when Olesha, to continue his theme of Envy, has Andrei’s brother observing a little girl - a very typical girl, twelve years old, dainty feet, short dress, all pink, satin, and ruffles .
Here's a question for you: What do you get when you cross Dostoyevsky's underground man, Gogol's wicked satire, a Nabokovian gift for metaphor, and place them in early Soviet Russia?Unfortunately, something less than the sum of its parts.Envy is set in 1920s Soviet Russia, with a drunken loser, Kavalerov, living in the home of a porcine official sausage-maker, Babichev, who is beloved by all.
Kavalerov hates Babichev's guts, and writes a letter full of bile against him.
Soon after, there's some family drama with Babichev's brother, Ivan.The language, aside from a few fantastic metaphors, is dull.
"Envy" is a social satire, published in 1927, during the early years of the Soviet New Economic Policy, a confusing time when the Communist society adopted some Capitalistic policies.
The book shows the strengths and flaws of both the new era and the old era.
The destitute Nikolai Kavalerov is taken in by the successful businessman Andrei Babichev.
Kavalerov envies the success and respect that Babichev receives, but also feels contempt for him.
There are six main characters with three representing the new Communist era, and the other three holding on to the old era.
If it were not for the first 50% of this more or less being a normal book (and an interesting one, too!), I would have given this 1 star.
What's with this need to make everything absurd to get whatever obscure point you're interested in across?
(I didn't get the point, AT ALL.) There's an obnoxious drunk (again Russia, what's with the unlikeable main characters?), a fat and loved man of activity, an idealized New Man, an uninteresting girl that gets as much substance as the New Man (she's just something all the men seem to want to possess because she's young and pretty, almost a child in her pink dress, blablabla), an old widow who actually gets some (plus the obligatory beating), etc, and the machine and the stolovaja or whatever it is.
Lately, I have found myself on a bit of a reading jag with the Russian literary novelists who were effectively repressed and, thus, went sadly unread during their lifetimes.
The eponymous theme of this novel places at odds an inventor and a bevy of commonplace individuals -- the classic bourgeois versus the proletariat of the Russian class system: serfs versus masters.
But in a way the denouement represents a kind of superior Russian realism of the sort Olesha may have wanted to project in Envy.
By all means read the Russians but I would seek out the others first and perhaps circle back to Olesha.
Again, another random find while running my finger along bookspines in the public library, I suppose the cover’s design made itself familiar to me: NYRB.It was a short novel and it had a Russian author, I decided to give it a try.It begins with a blast, as though you have woken up to see the character in question.
And I want to organize a final parade of these emotions.”Envy is a pretty short novel working through some ideas regarding the individual in a communist society, and questioning where emotions fit in when everything has a place.
How does Envy work when everyone is suppose to have what they need and everyone has a job to fulfill?
It is the same sense of confusion that leaves true lovers of Flannery O’Conner saying to themselves “I know this was important… but why?” Olesha’s novel concerns itself with one of the most important ideas in the newly formed USSR, the “New Soviet Man.” Rejecting the alcoholic, bored, womanizing, unorganized model of a true man that used to be famous, Lenin wanted to glorify the youth, virility, equality, and mechanic devotion of Russians to the motherland.
Even the most devoted reader will leave the novel with no answers; immensely happy, but with no answers.Envy is an incredible portrait of Russia at a difficult and confusing time, especially for its inhabitants.
К своему стыду, только сейчас открыл для себя писателя Олешу — а он, оказывается, был незаурядно талантливый.Формально "Зависть" очень простая повестушка, примитивная, коротенькая история из жизни совершенно пустого, никчемного человека без определенных занятий, сентиментального мечтателя, враля и пьяницы, который по случайности сталкивается с (чуток идеализированным) Советским Человеком Новой Формации, и начинает ему смертно завидовать и пытаться делать всякие мелкие гадости.Что особенно обидно, Новый Человек его практически не замечает и на выпады не реагирует, Новому Человеку не до того, он занят делом, он проектирует фабрику-кухню.
Пустячная вещица, по большому счету, хоть и полная духа голодных оптимистичных двадцатых.Но чорт возьми, как же волшебно написана каждая строка, а." День сворачивал лавочку.
Диск таза был светел и слеп.
Цыган шел медленно, таз легко покачивался, и день поворачивался в диске.
the books i call a wonder to read have -like Envy- a density that sates me after a few pages ....
like this sentence about Andrei Babichev who we know is a large robust and dominating figure; a figure that strikes awe in others: 'His shadow is cast perpendicularly across the street and almost produces a storm in the foliage of the garden on the other side.' and then, a few pages later there is a marvelous contrast between Babichev's shadow and a beautiful young girl, one perceived to be pure: 'She was lighter than a shadow, the very lightest of shadows - the shadow of falling snow would envy her.' Olesha has created a myth.
And talk about unreliable narrators!The description on the back of the book says it best: "Nikolai is a loser." He's not a very good Communist and seriously, he's a real louse.
Nikolai is consumed by envy of Andrei; he does not believe that which Andrei believes, but he can't seem to restrain himself from being just obsessed with him.This bizarre relationship epitomizes the Soviet state in the Twenties - the distrust, the confusion, the fascination with greener pastures, political upheaval, on and on and on.
The urge to sing bubbles up like a reflex.Hello - discussion of toilet use written by a Soviet in the Twenties?
Just as Yury Olesha himself, Kavalerov feels capable of great deeds and, at the same time, unable to find his place or accomplish anything in the new Soviet Russia.
These are the "sausage makers" like Andrey Babichev that the country needs, not poets and philosophers.I've read Envy right after finishing The Three Fat Men. Divided by only three years (TTFM was written in 1924, Envy in 1927), they demonstrate a big change in the society and in the author's view of the Soviet Russia.
Clever, disgusting, and very avant garde.
I wasn't quite in the mood for its avant-ness at this precise moment in time.
Tags: satire, soccer, Soviets, sausage, communal living, unreliable narration, acrobat legs, magnificent groinsHe's carrying around six poods.
Recently, walking down the stairs somewhere, he noticed his breasts bouncing in time to his steps.
His groin is exposed.
His groin is magnificent.
The groin of a Producer.
I saw a groin of the exact same sueded matteness on a bitch antelope.
A tale of two books (interestingly, with the same structure as Master and Margarita), with an absolutely fantastic 5 star first half that gets sucked into a jumble in Part Two. The sections have little in common besides character (first person vs third; modest surreality vs complete absurdity; recognizable characters vs dreams), and the allegory at play in the latter part of the book is frustratingly opaque.
The prime antagonist is a wonderful character and things perk up a bit during a soccer match toward the book's end, but it wasn't enough to right the ship.
I feared for a second that this would end up being another liberal's wet-dream of Soviet satire, in which the Great Evil is pilloried by the upstanding individual etc etc...
It's much, much more, and everyone comes out looking like a jackass.
Nikolai is very much in the tradition of Dostoevsky's underground man, whom you might identify as a romantic hero rebelling against the evils of his society etc., but who is actually, at best, a symptom of that society and, at worst, more or less a prick.
But that's much clearer in 'Envy,' particularly the second half.
Also: funny.
This little book is growing on me, opening up. It started out as an orgy of self-humiliation, painfully Gogolesque, painfully Doestoyevskian, that kind of humor--but it's developing layers of ideas and richness--it's only 125 pages! Just finished a passage where a very appealing second character extols the virtues of strong feeling and their vanishing with the modern era--and it's not just Communism, it's the loss of humanity and eccentricity and passion. Broad strokes and lots of ranting, but to great purpose.***Despair. How could it end....
From the brilliant opening sentence to the degrading, yet defining ending scene, Olesha's novel is superb in it's satire and poetry. The beartrap of envy: once closed, its teeth grinding into you like a pumpkin's smile; the mirror of your self-importance cracked, spilling drunk blood, watered down and swept away into the gutter; above all, your heart-dreams riotously murdered red by revolution... time's automatic and mechanical bootstep marching over the redacted face of Jesus.Envy this book. Envy it for its courage and for its flawless artfulness.
The whole time I was reading this, I couldn't figure out whose ideological side Olesha was on. As it turns out, no one else can either! To his credit, I think. And the writing is beautiful. (At least in translation.)(I read this mostly because it influenced Agnes Obel's soon-to-be-released new album.)
Startling and HIlarious; a sort-of parody, it seems to me, of Dostoevsky's underground man, saturated with images and actions more dream-like and let's just say "beautiful" than a reader might expect from a novel published in the new Soviet Union, in 1927.
Hier verdedigt Kawalerow uit alle macht zijn barokke fantasie, die bovendien wel heel nadrukkelijk een voorbeeld van "verliefde rede" is: een manier van kijken die zijn verliefdheid op een meisje nog verdiept, omdat hij haar geliefde gezicht op andere manieren beziet en beleeft dan wie ter wereld ook.
En die manier van kijken, van hem en van Iwan Babitsjew, doordesemt het hele boek, dat daardoor een onnavolgbaar grillig leesfeest wordt.Door de voortdurende grilligheid van deze stijl is deze roman voortdurend intrigerend raadselachtig van bedoeling.
It is florid though not exquisitely so, and although it reads nicely it is not something I would remember.One exciting thing about the book is that Olesha was clearly taking some digs at the authorities, and he disguised them so well I can genuinely understand why Stalin's lot took ten years to pick up on it.
Indeed if I had not been told about it in the introduction (which also contains a huge number of spoilers - though those are not fatal to the enjoyment of a book about this kind), I would have probably thought it ideology-neutral at most.
It was obvious that everything in the book was satire, and that it was likely very cutting -- if only we knew what the target was.
We can take the elements of the story and piece together (in our heads) the particular Soviet society ten years following the revolution, but by the time we've managed that the satire has no bite.What remains to the modern reader is the story and characters, some funny interactions, some universal observations.
Unfortunately, it is not enough.
People in another country a few generations from now might have a similar reaction to watching the opening sketch of a Saturday Night Live.
I didn't understand this book at all.
Now, to even begin to understand this book you need to have a serious knowledge of the socialist doctrine, some historic knowledge of what happened in URSS and the territories placed under it's influence or, to be an insider.Bot Ivan and Kavalerov illustrate aspects of the old man, while Andrei, Volodia and Valia are the exponents of the new world.
The old man is presented in extreme aspects: Ivan presented with powerful surreal characteristic, who wants to demonstrate the absurdity of the new society who wants to dispossess its citizens of even the basic human instincts like the love and protectiveness for its kin and descendants.
No entiendo lo que le pasa a 'Envidia': tiene dos partes y cada parte parece en realidad un libro distinto escrito por un autor distinto.
Y sí, es una sátira alegórica en la que cada personaje simboliza una cosa, pero esta primera parte funciona también a nivel individual y psicológico, porque la creación de personajes está muy bien conseguida.
Creo adivinar que la segunda parte se quiere centrar en un personaje que ya había sido presentado en la primera parte, Ivan Bábichev, hermano y némesis de Andréi, que representa la sociedad burguesa y capitalista, pero en esta ocasión la eficacia y la incisividad de la sátira quedan diluídas por culpa de unas ínfulas oníricas insoportables, y la psicología de los personajes queda anulada por una torpeza narrativa flagrante.
The first half of the book is told from the perspective of Kavalerov, a man down on his luck who spends most of his time drinking and yelling at people in bars.
things get weird but not in a wholly bad way I suppose.The book can stand on it's own from just it's wonderful style of writing, fans of prose will find a lot to love.
And therefore I raise my glass to you, writers, the engineers of the human soul"In that moment, I wonder how fast Olesha's heart was beating?
Yuri Olesha wrote Envy in 1927, at a time when many of his contemporary writers were either shot or trundled off to the Gulag.
We see Babichev as a self-important buffoon, who sees his role as creative a gigantic communal kitchen named Two Bits in which the cheapness and wholesomeness of the food with compete favorably with home cooking.Then, in Part Two, Nikolai meets with Babichev's brother Ivan who is fully as envious of Andrei as Nikolai is.
Nikolai takes up with Ivan, who has a strange device called Ophelia, which he plans to use to destroy Andrei and Two Bits.
One of the strangest books I've read so far this year. Part one reads like Dostoevsky's Notes from Underground but with more modernist and sometimes experimental prose. In part two the book suddenly goes off the rails and almost delves into the surreal. We go from the coldness and industrialisation of early Soviet life in part one to strange magical realism centred around an ambiguous kind of Doomsday device. A strange and unique book, check it out if you get the chance.
