https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1241082.Resurrection_Row
This 4th novel in the Charlotte and Thomas Pitt series illustrated for me the importance of reading a series sequentially.A corpse turns up in an unlikely place, and even more mystifying, the corpse is three weeks old and was obviously dug up from its burial site.
There is also a magnificently turned out Lady (Aunt Vespasia) who returns from another novel.
Lady Vespasia is, however, fond of both Thomas and Charlotte Pitt, and she is in a quandary.
A murder mystery set in the Victorian period in London and, I discovered, part of a series about police inspector Thomas Pitt and his wife Charlotte.
There was no other material evidence: perhaps it's a matter of public record that he owns a certain building, but that doesn't put him in the frame, given that the only witness to the date and time (the body having not been discovered for a few weeks) is the brothel madam (hide spoiler)].
Why did the person concerned go to so much trouble; (view spoiler)[wouldn't it have been simpler just to hide the murder victim, given that they hid another body for weeks before bringing it to public attention?
I do have to wonder if Pitt will recommend Froggy to paint Miss Verity's portrait… Then that overheard conversation in the park by Lady Alicia...naughty Perry...very naughty...and very well done!The StoryIt all starts with a dead man driving a hackney cab one night outside the theatre.
A point with which Pitt pummels Lady Alicia and Domenic quite hard.
Although Alicia does do a much better job...and so legal Lady Fitzroy-Hammond has one little problem---besides the mobile deceased---Domenic Corde, Charlotte's widowed brother-in-law, is a somewhat ardent admirer.
I'm late to the party with her early novels and have the benefit of catching up any time I like.First: she long ago overstepped the quota for uttering the word "quite"!
We got the point without needing her to note that Thomas had wet socks every time he walked in or out of doors.
Being deprived of the fading tones is to lose the most satisfying part about finishing a novel; a chapter or at least a few pages past the denouement.What we cannot accuse this mystery-weaver of is lack of emotion and colour.
Rather, Mr. and Mrs. Pitt are more visionaries, as if seeing their times from some future place (like from Anne Perry's brain!) In a way, it's nice because, frankly, when reading "Golden Era" mysteries, I sometimes get frustrated by the backwards, classist, racist notions tossed off as if they are common beliefs that make total sense.
I just read another historical mystery by a different author, which was written in the 1st person and where the narrator dares to have some rather backwards Imperialistic views, and I did find it refreshing in its reflection of the reality of the times.
Opinião em breve... ;)
Ces enquêtes sont toujours aussi agréables à lire. Ce tome m'a semblé un peu plus centré sur Thomas, Charlotte était moins présente, mais ça ne gâche en rien le roman.
I've read a bit of Anne Perry and like her books but this one was a letdown. The ending had many loose ends and unresolved story lines. A bunch of the characters were nothing but place holders. The mystery was too convoluted and silly. I might be giving up on this series and just sticking to the Monk series.
But it had been so long that as I listened to the audiobook I kept thinking it sounded familiar.
Then about 3/4 of the way through I remembered the ending.
This is after Thomas Pitt and Charlotte are married and have a little girl.
Pitt is called to investigate a case where a corpse (and then several) keep popping up.
I remember being appalled at the workhouse conditions and the woman who worked in a match factory that fumes?
Even knowing the end of the book, it was still intriguing about who-done-it.
Would recommend this book/audiobook.
I enjoyed the mystery in this book more than the previous 3.
However, the actual mystery was much more interesting and really had me thinking even though a murder isn't discovered until close to the end of the book.
Normally this would drive me batty but here there is still a mystery, I just began to assume that it wouldn't involve a murder.
It also delved into the horrific conditions of the poor during this time period.
I've enjoyed reading how the upper and middle classes coexisted during this time period in England and this adds a new and interesting element.
Some years ago I discovered Anne Perry and read several of her books.
I still remember her series with Charlotte and Thomas Pitt.
I just couldn't remember exactly how many of this series I had read.
Perry does such a good job of portraying the time period, and creates real characters.
In this book she presents an interesting mystery, but also relates the misery and hopelessness of the workhouses and lower classes in England.
In addition, you feel the cold, wet climate of England as those people eek out a wretched living.
I'm glad to read more of Perrys books.
I really like this one!Corpses keep popping out all over the place, they've been dead and buried for weeks.
Now someone digging them out and leave them without stealing any part of their bodies, something just not right!:)I think I like Ms. Perry's writing style.No heart pounding actions or Thomas chasing the villains everywhere in this series.He just a smart guy who was trying to solve the mystery with asking the right questions again and again until all the layers that we use to covered all the ugliness open up one by one.
Yes, the series is growing on me so I will continue on. Somewhat similar to Victoria Thompson's Gaslight series (which I love). Definitely some irony in how this mystery turned out."What an odd sight! The dead body of a peer of the realm sitting upright in an empty hansom cab. He had been decently buried once before, Inspector Pitt knew. There was something terrible amiss. Despite doctor's claims of death by natural causes, Pitt insisted on serious digging to unearth the truth--even if it killed him."
Resurrection Row is book four of the Charlotte & Thomas Pitt series by Anne Perry.
One night coming home with his wife Charlotte Inspector Thomas Pitt came across a body that three days before was buried at the local cemetery.
The readers of Resurrection Row will continue to follow Inspector Thomas Pitt investigation to find out what happens.I love reading the Charlotte and Thomas Pitt's books, and Resurrection Row did continue my love affair with this series.
The readers of Resurrection Row will learn about law enforcement procedures during the Victorian era.
Also, the readers of Resurrection Row will see how wealthy community in the Victorian era hinders law enforcement investigations.
In Resurrection Row, the book starts out with a corpse found in the driver's seat of a cab.
An act of blackmail also leads to murder and Thomas Pitt is beside himself trying to find out what is going on.
Aunt Vespasian makes a 2nd appearance and tries to help Charlotte and Thomas with this baffling mystery.
We get another look at Victorian social life and the child labor and workhouse reform bill in called into the political realm.
Another great read from Anne Perry makes me look forward to book 5 in the series.
Victorian parlors, sweatshops, brothels, tea parties, and weeks-old corpses popping out of the grave and appearing in church, cabs and other places they aren't expected. Pitt slogs through endless sleet and rain to piece out the clues, with one clever suggestion from Charlotte that solves the crimes.
I read Resurrection Row because it was mentioned in Anne Perry's latest book, Death on Blackheath, tying Aunt Vespasia's friend and neighbor, Somerset Carlyle, in with digging up dead bodies and placing them in places where they would be found.
I had to find out what history Somerset Carlyle had with dead bodies and thus looked up this very early (1981--4th Pitt book) novel.
Somerset Carlyle was a behind the scenes mover and shaker to improve the lot of the poorest of children in the workhouses, just as he was a leading mouth in parliament in Death on Blackheath.
Good mystery, really different concept with the grave robbing aspect. I enjoy these books.
The main storyline is Pitt and Charlotte, his police work and the mystery of the case he's working on in the particular book in this series, set in Victorian London.
Her description of the physical aspect of the city and it environs paints as clear a picture as a movie.You will come away from every book in this series changed a little bit.
Entertained, enlightened, with a much clearer picture of Victorian London at that time frame.
Be prepared, it's almost impossible to put down any of her books mid-read.You will find yourself thinking of them long after you've come to the final word of her glorious works.
I listened to the audio book narrated by Davina Porter, so I kept expecting Jamie and Claire to appear as she is the narrator of Outlander!) This is a Thomas Pitt and Charlotte story, though there wasn't much of Charlotte (except she does point him to the murderer).
Thomas is always cold, wet and miserable.
His insecurities about Charlotte come to the fore when Dominick Cord appears as a possible murder suspect.
He was married to Charlotte's sister and Pitt knows she had a "crush" on him, so he worries about her seeing Dominick again.
Only 2 stars...disappointed in this book. I felt like I was reading a textbook about grave desecration, resurrection-ism, and the bodies involved. The mystery seemed to be secondary. Both part were tied together close to the end, but it seemed contrived to make it so. I prefer the mystery to be prominent thread. If I need detail, do not write me a textbook. A quick overview will do for me. I like the characters. However, I don't think Charlotte and Thomas have found a good balance in their personal lives or in Charlotte's participation in solving the mystery. Still recommending!
If you enjoy the Molly Murphy series for the historical setting and cozy mystery but find yourself getting too annoyed with Molly and Daniel and their toxic relationship, give this series a try. This series is set in Victorian London instead of turn-of-the-century New York. The "rules of society" are quite foreign, but entertaining to me. The relationship between Charlotte and Thomas Pitt is what Molly and Daniel should have!
De las que he leído hasta el momento de la serie del Inspector Pitt, El Callejón De Los Resucitados es la que más he disfrutado, si bien como siempre Ann Perry describe los vicios,miserias y la hipocresía de la aristocracia y la alta sociedad Victoriana al menos en esta ocasión dota a sus personajes secundarios de personalidad y no están simplemente para lucimiento de Charlotte y Thomas Pitt.
I have enjoyed the ones I have read so much that I have been reading one after the other instead of switching between other books.Dead bodies turning up in strange places.
Inspector Pitt makes the effort to find why these bodies are being dug up but all that seems to be happening is people are beginning to wonder if someone did commit murder and in Victorian England a rumor is one sure way to be unwelcome in society.
I read this book more for the background story than the mystery.
If you like to read books that follow the spooky theme of October Resurrection Row is a book to add.
Resurrection Row is the fourth book in the Charlotte and Thomas Pitt series by Anne Perry.
It is the perfect October read because it is a mystery about corpses that keep turning up and some found to be missing from their graves.
In Resurrection Row Perry not only weaves a mystery about corpses but also shows us the other side of that living.
This was my second book by Perry and I was even more disappointed by the first, which was about the Cater Street murders.
The End. Bye!" The whole book was rhytmic like a lullaby - Pitt goes to work - fruitlessly investigating - goes home, has a Charlotte-cooked meal - goes to work - fruitlessly investigating - goes home, has a Charlotte-cooked meal...
The only thing escalating to something is the side story about a new bill on education of pauper children going to the House of Lords, but even that ends in a very underwhelming way.
Setting: 1881 LondonScotland Yard's Inspector Pitt and his wife, Charlotte must solve the mystery of dead bodies showing up at different locations.The first discovery of a body of a cabbie.
The problem was the guy had been already buried weeks before and he wasn't a cabbie.
He's reburied only to be unearthed again and placed in a church.Mystery and suspense filled the pages of this book.
The detailed looks on faces, the motions that gave clue were only two of the styles.I love this period of time in London.
I look forward to more books in this series.
Pornography and cadavers pepper this mystery. Charlotte has very little participation in it which is disappointing and the culprit seems painfully unlikely. From this reader’s perspective, there is no foreshadowing of the murderer who is a respected Lord with a bill in the house to Support relief for the trials of work houses. Carlyle his sidekick was evidently also involved, or at least knew about the murders and help cover them up. Another unlikely and rather unbelievable action by a wholesome character. Rather disappointing overall. On to book five.
A macabre mystery with dead bodies being brought back from the grave and found in strange situations has Inspector Pitt and the readers working hard to unravel the mystery. The book held my attention throughout.I am re-reading Anne Perry's books which I have been reading for many, many years. The mystery is still there since it has been so long ago when I first read them, but seeing the characters when they were first starting out has been very interesting.
The mystery was interesting and the inclusion of the living conditions of the lower classes was eye-opening. Enjoyed the book in general but.... It just ended. Like abruptly. So many loose ends, so much seemed to be left just hanging. I thought my copy might be incomplete but I don't think it is. Good story, had me looking things up online, enjoyed Charlotte and Thomas, but can't give more than 3 stars because of the ending.... Unfortunate.
