https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/30969741-an-enchantment-of-ravens
This wasn't like me. So many years of being cautious, and in a matter of minutes I'd started slipping up. An Enchantment of Ravens is not badly-written, but it is definitely not a book for me. I really wish I'd read some reviews before starting it and noted the comparison to A Court of Thorns and Roses. ACOTAR fans should love this.This book is for fans of that particular brand of YA romance where a smart, level-headed young woman meets (and is kidnapped by) a prince and her brain instantly tur
ACOTAR fans should love this.This book is for fans of that particular brand of YA romance where a smart, level-headed young woman meets (and is kidnapped by) a prince and her brain instantly turns to mush.
My initial liking for Isobel quickly turned sour as she threw sense to the wind and started going all googly-eyed over a fae prince she has known for about five minutes.
Then she finds herself with a very special client - the autumn prince, AKA Rook - and everything changes.Isobel paints human sorrow into Rook's eyes, therefore humiliating him in front of his fellow fae.
UGH.That being said, If you have any love for original fairy folklore, this book is for you.
*whispers into the void...Can he please have his own book?* ) And then one day, said fairy is all like 'Oh by the by...
I literally cannot.I don't want to say much more aside from what you can glean from the synopsis because let's face it, the book is too good to spoil, but in short - faeries don't have 'emotions' save for love really...
4.5*This was super enjoyable! It was kind of corny at times and quite romance driven which is very hit or miss for me, but I actually really loved the romance. This is definitely one of my favourite faerie stories that I’ve read! More thoughts TK in my wrap up
ARC provided by Simon & Schuster in exchange for an honest review.  “You are like a living rose among wax flowers. We maybe last forever, but you bloom brighter and smell sweeter, and draw blood with your thorns.”  Let me preface this review by letting you all know that all I want in this life is to read books about the fae. Seriously, give me a rainy or snowy day, a big hot cup of tea or coffee, and a book involving anything to do with faeries and I'll be a happy woman. I was completely cap
She has many regular fair folk clients, but her world completely changes when she gets a much unexpected message that she will soon be painting the prince of the autumn court, Rook.
Rook then rushes back to Whimsy to collect Isobel herself, and together they embark on an adventure to right the wrong of painting human emotion on a fair folk that is supposed to feel nothing.
That is, until Isobel and Rook start to develop stronger feelings for one another and they break the Good Law that the Adler King set in place, which states that a fair folk and a human can never love one another and that it will be punishable with death.
I just read the most wonderful book!
She paints for the fae.
****Might be some spoilers ahead****So one day, Gadfly tells Isobel she is to be visited by the autumn prince the next day to paint his portrait.
On her way home she is attacked by an evilness from the fae world.
BUT, the lovely autumn prince saves her.
This autumn prince is named Rook.
I'm in love with him ❤️While Isobel is painting his portrait they start to enjoy each other's company but Rook is whisked away to fight in the great hunt.
Isobel and Rook are fighting for their lives!
There's a cocky fae prince of the autumn court who can shapeshift into a raven.This book seriously had every element I was looking for and just makes me SO happy.
I wish it was September now so I could read this with pretty autumn colors outside!The basic idea: Isobel is a painter who's kidnapped by the faerie prince of the autumn court to stand trial for painting him with an emotion on his face.
I don't want to say much about the actual plot and ruin the way it unfolds, but the Good Law says that if a mortal and faerie fall in love, they both must die...First of all, the main character totally made the story.
Shout out to we short people who still get stuff done...except, ya know, reach tall cupboards.) + And Rook was the bessst.He was so vain lmao and like this super tall autumn prince, warrior and knight and talented magician...and yet so childlike in the face of human things.
Like Isobel meets Rook to paint his portrait and she "falls in love with him".
But I actually felt like this was a good example of unpacking the trope.+ Also Isobel is an artists!Faeries can't do any sort of art or creation here (I'm not sure why) so they relied on the humans for it all.
I wiped off my fingers, but it wasn't the mold or maggots making my stomach revolt... No, it was the knowledge that all around me sat empty people in rotting clothes, nibbling on flyblown trifles while they spoke of nothing of consequence with fixed smiles on their false faces.  Let’s just rename this book An Enchantment of This User, because this book’s main strength is that it’s so engaging you cannot focus on the flaws. This is one of those books that is just so. freaking. addicting. Were t
Let’s just rename this book An Enchantment of This User, because this book’s main strength is that it’s so engaging you cannot focus on the flaws.
Fairies in this book cannot feel - or at least, we think they cannot.
Instalove is fine as long as I’m not bored by the couple themselves.
Like, okay, I don’t want to be dragged by my lovely friends in the comments and I don’t want people to get me wrong in what I’m saying: this book had its trashy moments.
Good couple dynamic + best writing of the year = good book.Blog | Goodreads | Twitter | Youtube
While this book had some problems with pacing and I would have loved to see some plot points expanded, I don't care.
It can be accused of some insta-love and other rushed plot points.
You know those books that just hit so many beats for you that you can ignore many flaws?
It has an eerie, magical forest with creative fae beasts I haven't seen described in such a way before and you know how I feel about enchanted evil forests!
Plus this was the fae as they are supposed to be...
Plus all the raven imagery.
This was pretty underwhelming, which is a huge bummer, because I really wanted to like it.A lot of people might compare this at first to ACOTAR because of the fair folk and their courts, but - surprise!
Anyway, as I said, I really wanted to like this, if only for the cover.But, alas, the world building felt unfinished, the purpose and direction of the story was unclear to the very end, and the characters were a group of bland strangers I never truly got to know.
And I got it on sale.In the end, I’m glad this at least has a purty cover, since I have it in hardback via Uppercase.
The second half is that Isobel and the Autumn Prince fall in love, which violates the Good Law that states no mortal and Fairy can fall in love, if they do it’s an offence punishable by death and so the plot unravels before our eyes.Isobel is a great protagonist and I loved watching her handle herself so wonderfully in the Fairy Courts.
Like I said in the beginning of this review, many people have compared it to the A Court Of Thorns And Roses series, but I think no one can truly know if you will like this book till you read it.
Even though I wanted to so badly.In An Enchantment of Ravens, Margaret Rogerson painted in earthy pigments, inspired by the rusty autumn leaves, the story of a young artist, Isobel, and her encounter with a Fae Prince, Rook, the tornado that brought change to her otherwise stale life.
And the world-building was not the only thing missing.There was magic.
I finished An Enchantment of Ravens a week ago, but as hard as I may try to recall the feelings it provoked, and the impression it left me, I come up empty.
Somehow I've even grown fond of your - your irritating questions, and your short legs, and your accidental attempts to kill me."✘ side characters & fair folk- Gadfly, who is Isobel's oldest and most prominent patron.
I loved them so much.- I also want to touch on the lore in this story and how it affects the fair folk.
I wanted a story where the Fae were humanoid with tree roots for limbs and flowers for lips, where they worshipped nature instead of just lived in it— something closer to the rendition of Celtic folklore including the Wild Hunt, changelings, and caverns beneath the earth.
As I’ve mentioned before, one of the deal-breaking moments for me was the rendition of the Fae. The Fair Folk in this book cannot lie, are harmed by iron, have humanoid skins they wear as a disguise to hide their more monstrous forms underneath, live in places made of all things natural, and (my favorite) don’t have emotions.
I remember once I studied a lot for a math exam and was 200% sure I'd pass but then I actually took the exam. I'm having that feeling now that I've actually finished reading the disaster that was This Book. Rtc, like shit I'm tired, this was supposed to be Good.///Please let there be a Ronan Lynch with a pet raven named Chainsaw, thank you.Buddy read with my favorite wife, Elsie (who I'll tag once I'm less lazy)
Sooooo here I am.
Hating on a book that is pretty much LOVED by everyone else.
But… I feel no remorse?
Only salt.
:)Why did I have to not like this??
Especially because it’s 1) my first ARC, 2) an extremely hyped and well-loved book, 3) THE OWNER OF SUCH A PRETTY COVER.
But even though I’m wondering why the heck I had to get the unpopular opinion on this specific book, I am very firm in what I thought!!
L I K E S • The world is so interesting!
We have the fair folk (the fae/faerie), who are immo
Especially because it’s 1) my first ARC, 2) an extremely hyped and well-loved book, 3) THE OWNER OF SUCH A PRETTY COVER.
This world in general was super interesting, especially Whimsy and the World Beyond.•• ROOK.• He is a sweet yet arrogant little brat and I actually LOVE HIM.
He is kind, which is seen as a weakness among the fair folk, but it makes him SO much more relatable.• Ummm I was really so-so on Isobel.
I don't care about some dumb romance, I want to read about the fricking fair folk.• The writing style, to me, seemed really basic.
—RookSasha Alsberg was right when she said that people who loved ACOTAR would enjoy this book.
Unlike her peers, Isobel possesses the unique ability of making her fae subjects look human in their paintings.
On their journey to the autumn court, Isobel and Rook gradually come to a mutual understanding.
With that in mind, I also enjoyed this book because of its mildly educational content; it was like my very own Painting 101 class.If you check out other reviews of AEOR, you might notice that most of them have one thing in common: they praise the author's flowery writing style.
After the Twilight series I never dreamed another really goddamn awful book would come along that would have the strange, voodeedoo power of compelling me to read to the very last page, despite every ounce of good sense begging me to kick it to the curb.
Here is actual footage of me reading this book: So, with that happening every few pages, sometimes every few lines, a mere 5 days is rather a miraculous feat in and of itself.It's not that the pacing is slow, in fact its just the opposite.
so having seen a lot of negative reviews in regards to how this book is pitched and the comparisons made, i decided to go into this with a completely open mind and no expectations whatsoever - which i think is the only thing you can do in this particular situation.
stories about fae are pretty common, so i really enjoy how this introduces some aspects i havent previously read and provides new things to learn about that particular world.
i think people who go into this expecting it to be exactly like ACOTAR in terms of plot and quality will be a bit disappointed with this.
2 Stars “You are like a living rose among wax flowers. We maybe last forever, but you bloom brighter and smell sweeter....” If you listen very carefully, legend says you can still hear my drawn-out sigh, drifting in the wind…All these mystical, magical things were supposed to be enchanting but I just felt meh. And it starts off really good! This has a gorgeous setting with a captivating depiction of fae. Rogerson's clever use of description builds picturesque scenes and there are so many fun ele
There wasn’t really any plot outside of, “these guys are totally going to fall in love, and they aren’t supposed to.”However, there were several things I liked about the ending.
- Like the fact that Isobel is going to age and die while Rook stays the same forever?
Full review postedIt’s really funny because I read this book like 2 weeks ago and I literally remember zero things about it and still haven’t written a review ha ha!! Isn’t this great??!! end me now pleaseSo, let’s be direct about it,  this book was a cringe fest Ahhhhh that felt good to get off my chest. Now here’s the thing about it, if you go into it with low expectations, expecting a cringe fest with some weirda*s instalove and lots of confusion, then you might be pleasantly surprised bc hey
Full review postedIt’s really funny because I read this book like 2 weeks ago and I literally remember zero things about it and still haven’t written a review ha ha!!
-	Legit choked on air when I heard the narrator read that line, like…..why, why, please stop-	These kids were //pretending// to hate each other AFTER THE WHOLE INSTALOVE TRIP AND I WAS SO CONFUSED BC THEY PRACTICALLY PROCLAIMED THEIR LOVE FOR EACH OTHER WHY THEY LYING SO MUCH-	And then 0.34 seconds later theyre like making out in the woods????-	Dude, try and be consistent, please-	And then some ish happened but I forgot and then the real conflict started but it literally ended in 2 seconds so that’s great-	Moral of the story: punch me if I believe in the hype again, thanks.“Why do we desire, above all other things, that which has the greatest power to destroy us?”2 stars!!~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
It still needs so much work." This genuinely feels like the first draft of a book, there are SO many technical issues that don't make sense.This book is trying to be acomaf… except with the worst parts of Twilight sprinkled into it.
At every turn Isobel reminds the reader about how helpless and weak she is as a mere human, and it was exasperating.Next, Isobel falls in love with Rook so!!!!!
And it’s the first book I’ve read in a long time where I think there’s some genuinely weak storytelling here.
3.5 stars, methinkes➦So there has been quite a buzz surrounding this book and I, naturally, needed to get my ears on this audiobook asap.
➦There were unique elements in this book, such as faes being useless due to the fact that they couldn't perform any kind of craft.
And if they ever touched a craft, well, then➦There's a romance here between a human young woman and an immortal fae, who's also a prince, by the way.
➦The book needed to be longer, I think.
:D Overall, an enjoyable, albeit a bit short, YA read with interesting fantasy elements and romance at the center of it all.
2.5 stars...The writing style was beautiful but omg, I was so bored the whole time :(...
Beautifully written and living up to its own with a unique spin on fairy lore and magic, An Enchantment of Ravens, was simply at best, a short, solid, and an enchanting read.
(People who've read A Court of Thorns and Roses, will only get this joke, calm down.)However, there were several aspects which I did not like and I will go more in depth with a video on my channel closer to the release date of the book.
This book is basically your average fairy tale expanded and glorified with better story, plot, and writing.
Didn't meet my expectations like I thought it would.
The story basically goes like this:- Isobel our MC is a master of her craft and paints portraits of Fae for a living.
*rolls eyes*- Isobel paints his face with emotion and Rook becomes enraged and takes her away to the autumn lands to be put on trial for her crime.-Sassy Prince Rook is sassy.-A whole shitload of stuff goes down while they are on the way.-March and May fuck shit up 24/7.So yep, that's the least spoilery version I could give y'all & you definitely don't want this be spoiled.
Like Isobel, you mean to tell me you fell in love just looking at someone while painting them?
I was half-expecting the word “male” to be thrown about left, right, and centre.Having said that, there was one quote that I really enjoyed, which was: “Why do we desire, above all other things, that which has the greatest power to destroy us?” If only the rest of the book contained profound quotes like that!
This book was definitely well-written and it had the potential to be great, but regrettably, that potential was ultimately wasted.
There is nothing sadder than starting a book you expected to love and ending up more than disappointed by it.
This is why Rook, the fae prince of the autumn court, comes to her for his portrait.
The author uses Rook's and Isobel's journey to the autumn court as thinly veiled attempt to showcase the world and develop their relationship, which would have been fine, if only it had been executed in a way that didn't make me want to fall asleep.
I felt absolutely no chemistry between Rook and Isobel.
Review to come when I'm done wallowing in the lost potential of this book.["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>
My biggest problem with this, and by extension most faerie books that are written by people for whom these legends aren't local (and therefore orally, authentically learned) is that the mythos doesn't ring true.
I think it's totally erroneous to say that people who don't come from a locality where faerie legends (or legends similar) are embedded can't write stories about them, but I do want to emphasise that aesthetics aren't enough.
Really, guys?Faeries, like so many deities, serve a purpose.
