https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2036549.The_Holy_Barbarians
This is a Rory book. I'm not ashamed to admit it.I loved that show, and I found some good titles that eventually became awesome books. So, yes. It's a Rory book... Don't question my sources. (?)September 27, 2013UpdateOh, yes. Gilmore Girls: A Year in the Life will be released on November 25. Two days before my birthday. Perfect gift!Because, you know, it isn't just a show - it's a lifestyle.July 31, 16Update IIYes, I watched the Gilmore Girls revival. I will keep my opinion to myself and continue to watch the original series. Dec 29, 16
Second attempt. Not as good as the first one, but it is shorter!After riding high on Your Erroneous Zones and Doing Nothing, I had to read a book about incompetent, self-indulgent, elitist, hypocritical, vapid, shallow, histrionic, selfish, egotistical, ignorant beatniks. Everyone in this book talks like they came out of Beyond the Valley of the Dolls, and the author Lawrence Lipton (father of James Lipton, and if you want to understand why James is so pretentious and boorish, look no further th
Everyone in this book talks like they came out of Beyond the Valley of the Dolls, and the author Lawrence Lipton (father of James Lipton, and if you want to understand why James is so pretentious and boorish, look no further than this book) records pseudo-objectively the everyday life of the beatnik, in a voice and style reminiscent of Gidget’s father.
They don’t dig jazz… They’re not with it… They’re putting on the heat again… They killed the story because it might lose them an advertiser… They rejected my book because it was controversial’ (48).”	There is a childish rebellion at work among the beatniks, a cynical, egotistical revolt against the sameness of the world they see around them, and a retreat into a selfish world of crass desires and entitlement.
This was one of the strangest and most amazing books I've ever read. Probably changed the course of my life.
I read this book in the late 70s, about 20 years after it was written.
That was about 5 years after I spent some time in Los Angeles, hoping to experience the Beat subculture.
I enjoyed and appreciated the book, largely because I had experienced a little of the Venice scene it describes.
But it was already ancient history when I visited.
The Beat concept had already been subsumed, for better or worse into the overall American Experience.
I hope to reread it soon and, if I do, I'll expand my review and may revise my evaluation.
I read this book when I was in about 7th grade age 14. I realised then and there - 1961; that this was the life for me. I left home a couple of years later and started my life via Greenwich Village and Haight-Ashbury, San Francisco. And a good life it has been. In other words probably the most influential book I read as a teenager.
This is a 300+ page argument that the Beat Movement was as much political as it was a artistic. Lipton tries to draw a line from leftist movements of the 20s and 30s to the Beat Generation. It's a stretch. He takes the whole Beat Generation too seriously. So much so that's unintentionally humorous at times.
Like hey man, those beatniks were groovy. If the planet Earth is like a tiny speck in the thumbnail of the universe, does that mean I could like have a tiny universe in my thumbnail? Blows my mind. You dig?
The pages are a comfortable color of weathered cream and the smell takes me back to my childhood, to our old library that is now a police station for offices only.
Under the staircase in the back of the building was the children's room: a 10X10 floor-to-ceiling alcove with a small square table in the middle.
I spent hours in that room delving Nancy Drew and perusing Island of the Dolphins.
I keep losing myself in these fond memories and having to start over paragraphs, and at times, whole pages.As for the book review, I'm having a hard time finding shelves to file this under.
Reading this book, I could see a lot of similarities with the Beatniks and the Millenial generation - but with a big difference being that in general, the Millenial doesn't live in a state of poverty by choice. With this point of view in mind, it was incredibly interesting to read about the sex, art, jazz and politics of the Beatniks. They were more than just poet reading jazz lovers, they were a movement away from societal norms that Lipton could write about so well because he was one of them.
The best book i have read so far of this type. It’s more explaining than just high rambling.
3.5 stars.
An excellent illustration of qualitative research written well, Lipton lives and works among these radical dropouts and collects their stories to group them into a mosaic of the alternative lifestyle.
Rejection of the capitalist myth, the importance of jazz to alternative consciousness, marijuana as communal bonding agent, and alternative sexuality - Lipton tells it all with detail but with an intelligent eye to the bigger picture, situating the movement in the constant surges of youth rebellion in the early twentieth century.
I don't know if I would have wanted to be a beatnik, but after reading Lipton's work, I bet they sure would have been interesting to hang out with.
All in all a decent read.
Obviously it is a bit dated, and some or rather, most of the pieces that felt like they are suppose to be shocking to the average reader, probably were quite shocking to the average reader when this books was released.
Girls who sleep with boys before marriage and curse?
Boys with beards?
Not wanting to live the American Dream?
The horror, the horror...I also probably should have read this book sooner.
I've had a copy for the better part of a decade, sitting on my to read shelf in every apartment I've lived in.
Based on annotations and highlighting of my nook version of this book, this was one of my best reads.
Lipton does an excellent job of capturing in detail the beat generation and tracing similar movements, from his first hand experience, from the twenties, thirties and the immediately proceeding developments of the forties.
The details of beat personalities, music, attitudes, religion were all insightful.
All of this was new to me.
His experiences with luminaries, such as Allen Ginsberg, were fascinating and made these people seem human.
It was my first read of beat poetry.
All in all, one of my favorites.
Written in such a fluid manner, I felt like I was reading a story rather than a comprehensive history of a movement.
This book delves into every aspect of the "beatnik" movement, letting you into the thoughts and minds of many of the key creative people that grew out of the era.
This book covers not only the history of the movement but also gives you a portrait of the social and cultural climate of the country as a whole.
It also expands the oft misconceived view the beat generation began and ended with Jack Kerouac.
The era of the beatnik is much richer than a singular person.
Took me a little while to get into this book, and Lipton's rambling style takes some getting used to, but despite my misgivings about his abity as a writer, I enjoyed this self-indulgent 'history'. Much of the material is oral history, transcribed directly from interviews or other texts, and other writers often have more interesting things to say about the Beat Generation than Lawrence Lipton does, but it was a useful introduction to the material.
Lipton's THE HOLY BARBARIANS is a study of beatnik and a book of two halves. The first reads like a roman à clef journal of life in Venice West, the second a paper on beat versus the ever commercial modern America and it's origins. An odd mix of entertainment and education which manages to capture the essence of beat in an organised way that doesn't let it shatter in your hands.Squares beware. There's little for you here.
A very thorough and thoroughly fascinating look at the 'beat' culture and what it all meant. Their ethics, music, literature and way of life from the point-of-view of a proud insider. Lipton pays some passing reference to the 'name-brand' beatniks but focuses on those he knew from his own community of Venice West, CA.
Wanted to know more about the history of the Beats before going to San Fran but could hardly get through it.
A must for any reader of the Beat Generation. A mix of interview, social critique and first-hand account of their lives and work.
A look into the Beat Generation. Interesting read for those wanting to know more about the beat culture.
