https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/10412948-after-midnight
Sanna’s observations about life for ordinary Germans under the Nazi regime are a large part of what makes this work a treasure.
Juxtaposed to Sanna’s first person narrative is her reporting of the comments of other characters, in particular those of Heini, who provides a much more direct criticism of Nazism than that of Sanna.
This novel provides an amazing insight into life in 1930s Germany and in particular into the choices which had to be made by writers.
It has left me wanting to read more of Keun’s work.
I only wish I had not had to read the work in translation.
In some way it can be regarded as a 'prequel' to Child of All Nations: A Novel, written in 1938, that tells the story of one family's life in exile, seen from the perspective of a ten-year old girl.Keun's three novels mentioned above open a window into a time and place that is difficult for us to imagine in detail.
In this novel, 19-year old Susanne, with an independent voice and a mind, roams with great ease between recounting what she hears and observes around her and pondering her own inner thoughts that either add humorous commentary on the people she meets, ask questions, or take her mind to past problems in her young life.
Let there be sun tomorrow, dear God. This book.
Written in 1937, set around the same time – contemporary literature.
The sane people?
The insane people?
Who should read it?
Idiotic laws govern love.
Laws not understood and not questioned.
Keun knows the situation in Germany.
When writing a writer must not fear his own sentences, or God, or the world in general.
The dictatorship has made Germany a perfect country.
A perfect country does not need writers.
There is no literature in paradise.
I will dance and laugh and sing to the madhouse.
You never know the most important things.
https://electricliterature.com/now-is...
Not so for Keun's novel of Nazi Germany, however.
She's young and all absorbed with romance and social relationships and then, boom, she mentions some aspect of Nazi control that's recently come to dominate Keun's characters' lives.
Unlike the other novels, the central character of After Midnight is one with whom readers can better identify because, at least on the surface, she's just like any other young adult.
After Midnight also covers a fairly full spectrum of German lives, from intellectuals to children to Nazi sympathizers to the average people just caught up in it all.
4.5 StarsAfter Midnight was written and published in 1937 while Keun was living in exile in Europe having left Germany the previous year. Deceptively straightforward and engaging on the surface, the novel is actually a very subtle and insightful critique of the Nazi regime, written by an author who had experienced the challenges of navigating the system first-hand. It’s an excellent book, one that draws the reader in from its striking opening line.You can open an envelope and take out something which bites or stings, though it isn’t a living creature. (p. 3)To read my review, please click here:https://jacquiwine.wordpress.com/2018...
Much of this novella mirrors her life and you can feel the authenticity of experience in every line.Sanna flees from Cologne after being investigated by the Gestapo for making unguarded comments, and ends up living with her half-brother Algin and his wife.
We learn of Algin's wife, Leski, who has fallen desperately in love with a journalist no longer able to work.
There is also an insightful introduction to the work, as well as an interesting essay on the author at the end of the book, which gives the reader a greater understanding of the novella.
Keun wrote this slim novel, set in mid-1930s Germany, with a tone that is somehow light and devastating.
Keun wrote After Midnight in 1937, shortly after fleeing Germany.Very glad I took a chance on this at the Brooklyn Book Festival and plan to explore more of The Neversink Library collection from Melville House Publishing.
You get used to feverish celebrations of something or other going on all the time in Germany, so that you often don't stop to ask what it is this time, why all the fuss and the garlands and the flags?" [page 20]
Sanna once lived in Cologne with Franz and his mother, Aunt Adelheid, but had to flee because her aunt tried to have her arrested by the police.
Simultaneously, Franz finally arrives in Frankfurt, and explains to Sanna why he has to either hide or flee.
While trying to make a checklist of all they need to stand a chance of surviving, Sanna is constantly distracted by people pouring into Liska's party, which has turned into a crime scene since Heini shot himself.
At some point, Sanna thinks: "Perhaps they've already come to arrest Franz.
Keun’s life, who was opposed to the Nazi regime, could be the subject of a novel: at some point, she faked her own suicide to be able to live in Germany unbeknownst to the Nazis, who had put her on their black list (her books were burned).
But the banality of evil creeps, finds its way, and permeates the lives of all the characters, turning After Midnight into one of the most effective, and devastating, account of the insanity that ruled over Nazi Germany.
A convincing voice, not a compelling one.
I hung in there till the mouthy/heroic journalist arrived, but his voice―convincing maybe, compelling not at all, and concerned almost entirely with commonplaces in no need of elaboration―defeated me.
Another would-be guru, shown (seemingly) without irony!
I stopped 20 pages from the end with no regrets.
On the upside, the translation’s good, there were some nice observations (the narrator’s aunt getting flustered over Hitler’s speeches simply for their vehemence) and sure, Keun was gutsy, to come out swinging after she’d seen what she saw.
Lose the journalist!
I really, really love when publishers bring old treasures (also known as a book in this particular case) to new light and new audiences.
After Midnight is one of those books.
This is a short book about a vivacious girl named Sanna who is living in a quickly changing world.
In this sort of novella, Keun gives us a look at not only the world events changing the the course of history at the time but also how regular life still seems to creep in.I really enjoyed this short story.
I had never heard of it before but this is definitely a treasure from the past.
Started this book in the departure lounge at the Atlanta airport, waiting to go home. Read it along the way to Toronto, read it some more after clearing customs and crossing back into Canada, and then finished it on the flight from Toronto to Calgary. Loved it so much that I gave the book to the flight attendant so that she could read it on her return flight to Toronto. Really worth it.
It is difficult to conceive of coming of age in a society where politics permeates and controls all aspects of life, from relationships to what you say or do. Even firsthand accounts of life in places like Nazi Germany are limited because they can largely reflect only the perspective of the author. As a result, novels by contemporary German writers often seem to carry as much or more impact on understanding the times. Irmgard Keun's  After Midnight  is a notable part of that canon.Susanne "Sanna
In part a love story set in Frankfurt, Germany, in the 1930s, even Senna's simple, ingenue-like life is affected almost daily by Nazism and politics.Keun's book, written and first published in 1937 after she fled Germany, portrays Sanna as somewhat vacuous or at least generally ignorant of political details.
With the mix of people Sanna knows, her thoughts and their comments, the book provides a perspective on day to day life in pre-war Germany a work of nonfiction would find it difficult to capture.Algin's story seems to have a basis in Keun's own life.
It was one of the best literary impulse buys I have ever made.Far removed from the expected serious or somber tone of other literature dealing with life in Nazi Germany, the narrator Susanne recounts the events in the novel with the light-heartedness, simplicity, and flippancy of a teenage girl.
More importantly, the narrator and the events of the story offer a tragic conclusion- at this time and place, even the most naïve and apolitical could not escape the circumstances that forced politics and ideology into their lives.
The characters are memorable, and the book successfully combines readability with insight and literary weight.After Midnight is a simultaneously entertaining and tragic novel.
My BA dissertation was about Irmgard Keun's The Artificial Silk Girl.
However, Irmgard Keun is most well known for her books about World War II, and this one in particular.
Her main character was once again a naive but observant young woman living in the big city, trying to make it big any way she can think of and reconcile with her idea of what's right and wrong.
The book is in the first person, though and in her observations of the world around her, though, you see that things are going terribly wrong in Germany.
This is a very intense piece of writing, offering a glimpse of the life led by everyday people in Hitler's Germany.The tension runs high from start to finish as the characters deal with the difficulties of life, under constant threat of being reported for the slightest hint of offense against the regime.There was a sense of urgency about every scene in this book, which was a little tiring at times, but which I also think was necessary to convey the fear of the characters as they each battled their personal demons.

Recently re-released here in the US, it has a small but loyal following who do their best to get it more wide acclaim and for good reason.
Part of the Neversink Library (which I’ve mentioned in prior reviews) this is one of those books that you hold onto and keep for future generations to enjoy even though it may not be a best seller.
While that may sound like a bad thing, it’s not.
Instead, it’s the simplistic nature of this book that gives its beauty and timeless appeal.
Amazing satirical novel that takes place in pre-war Frankfurt, written by Irmgard Keun, an antifascist humor writer in 1937 (her work inspired Anita Loos!!!). An obsession with Irmgard Keun has been ignited! True HERO.
What a great book this is - set in Nazi Germany in 1930s Frankfurt, Keun takes us on a amazing ride through the quagmire that is slowly enveloping - and suffocating - the German people through the eyes of her twenty-something heroine Sanna - Keun was a brave soul to write this book in '37!
Lectura obligatoria de Lite y Holocausto, que no me ha gustado nada :/
4.0/4.0I haven't actually read this book in English, just German. It's fantastic in the original, though, so let me know if you find an English copy and read it.
This is a novel ABOUT 3. Reich written DURING 3. Reich IN 3. Reich. Read my review here:http://allthatglistensisnotold.blogsp...
“Evening, ladies and gentlemen, see you soon, good night, Heil Hitler,” he says to his customers as they go out, adding, to Heini, “Well, never know who you may be speaking to, do you, or what they happen to like?”“The Stürmer, new edition just out, the Stinging Nettle and the Illustrated Observer for sale.”Oh lord, I was hoping we could go home at last, and here comes the man who sells the Stürmer, the character Heini likes to engage in conversation, asking him ideological questions about World Outlook.
I hope you won’t think me immodest when I tell you I was born under Leo.” And the Stürmer man falls silent.“Good heavens!” says Heini.
Stunning.
3.5 stars - Review to follow
"But what is a person, really? You never think you're good enough for the person you're in love with, anyway." Honestly the book started off great and interesting. But ended really quickly and rushed and messy. I felt like I was as drunk as the characters while reading the last few pages. Which is maybe the point?
Aber es ist doch ein Jammer, daß jemand ganz allein für sich oft am schönsten ist"(6)."Und er hat sie geheiratet, weil sie ihn bewunderte als einen dichtenden Gott und weil eine Frau zum Aufbau gehört wie eine Wohnung"(14)."Aber es gibt ja nichts Idiotischeres, als drüber nachzudenken, warum sich Menschen lieben, wenn sie sich nun mal lieben"(18)."Ich wollte zu ihnen gehören aus Angst, denn sie sind immer alle gegen einen.
Denn die Verzweiflung beim Tode eines geliebten Menschen ist die Verzweiflung über sich selbst, über die wissende Ahnung, daß man ihn im Herzen vergessen und ersetzen wird und dadurch auf ewig verlieren"(102)."Er hat mich dann wieder vollkommen vergessen.
Irmgard Keun's After Midnight is a slim novel with a slim premise: Susanna and her friend Gerti have some nasty adventures in early Nazi Germany.
Keun's books had been banned by the Nazis early on, and after having escaped the country, she faked her own suicide to sneak back in.
After Midnight was written during her period of exile from Germany, and her sharp criticism of the regime stands as a writer's indictment of authoritarianism:"The dictatorship has made Germany a perfect country, and a perfect country doesn't need writers.
Perfection renders words unnecessary." This book is a short, sharp read, well worth the time, and well worth supporting the wonderful independent publisher, Melville House.
