https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/22026.The_Sicilian
For someone who has just got into books and reading a book every ten days,it was too much to swallow
There are lots of characters. I really like this book. It is very gripping to read. Alhamdulillah.
While The Godfather Trilogy stands out as the greatest Movie ever made (in my humble opinion anyway, I must have watched it a dozen times or more, and would probably do so for the rest of my life), but as far as the books are concerned, The Siclian happens to be far superior to The Godfather.And I just loved the ending, its probably one of the most heart breaking one you will ever come across, and sadly perfect in so many ways.Its a must read.
Time se slažemo svi ovde.
Međutim, bio sam uveren da to kod Kuma ne može biti istina, pa sam do skoro odgađao čitanje Puzove majstorije.
Sicilijanac je sjajno iskustvo dok traje, mada mi dugoročno verovatno neće ostati na nivou Kuma.
Sve dok je nisam završio i dodatno istražio, nisam ni pomislio da može biti napisana prema istinitim likovima i događajima.
Nekako je suviše...
interesantna, a eto i ovde se pokazuje da je realnost često zanimljivija od fikcije.
Glavni lik je verovatno i suviše idealizovan, ali te u ovo doba manjka idealizma nekako tera da poveruješ da je Turi takav i bio.
Surviving the gunshot wounds, he embarked on a path to liberate Sicily from injustice, and to lift the poor and weak from oppression and poverty.Puzo goes to a lot of details to bring the character of Guilliano to life.
It's only that, living in a world where this perfect combination is unheard of, it kind of makes you question the credibility of the book.But I guess that can forgiven, given that this is a romanticism of Guilliano's legend, and is a pretty good book.
(hide spoiler)]The book makes us want to know Guilliano.
He chose loyalty to his family, which history and circumstances may have forced him to do considering the nature of his brothers and the world Don Corleone had built around him, which brings about the sad tragedy of his life.
He survived tragically - dying a lifelong death - whereas Turi Giuliano lived even beyond his last breath; the final reward of the mythical hero, the archetypal conqueror of death who lives the life that every common citizen of every common country would choose for their children.
And perhaps the burden falls to Sicily, the histories and circumstances, for creating a world which demands that we choose to survive tragically by its methods or live heroically by our own.
I watched the movie not so long ago for the first time (yeah, I know), and found it well-made.
So I was interested in this book, which is kinda-sorta a "prequel" though not really, as it takes place (in a manner of speaking) after Michael Corleone goes into exile in Sicily.
Endless driving to other places to meet more people and talk, talk, talk.
The big old "suprise reveal" at the end was totally predictable; Puzo began to telegraph that particular punch in the first half of this very long book, so by the time it landed, it was hardly even a tap.If you want a contemporary telling of the Robin Hood legend, go for it.
The characters were lush and deep but not captivating enough to make me dive into their lives.The book might have flourished if it were made into two parts, because since the real story is so limited, Puzo could have glorified it by dividing it into two parts by focusing the drama on the first and the tragedy/thrills on the latter, but that's just how I feel.
For example, the execution of the main character absolutely made no sense at all, the weak writing left readers in utter dismay and confusion such as, "Why kill him NOW?", "without a motive why would THAT person betray?", etc.Moving on, the theme of the book is somewhat ambiguous yet the countless incidents of the story surely amplified aspects of Loyalty and Pride.
I read this a few years ago and completely forgot to review it here.It's a MASTERPIECE and definitely one of my favourite Puzo novels!
Obviously, much of this must have been Puzo's invention but he does an incredible job of bringing this legend to literary life.The story is well mapped out, the characters wonderfully rendered, the time and place so vibrant and alive, the dialogue clipped with colloquialisms, it all feels like you've stepped back into history.I strongly recommend this book!
Though Puzo will be remembered for The Godfather (a novel he himself regarded as 'pulpy'), The Sicilian bears testament that his other novels demand just as strong an interest.This is an author at the peak of his powers.
The novel is based on the real life exploits of Salvatore "Turi" Giuliano (spelling was intentionally changed in the novel ) .
The best things I found about this book is that the situations of transformation of "lad Turi" to "bandit Turi" are still relevant .
There are numerous stories throughout our nation same as Turi's .
The second best thing about the book is its character building .
The plot of the book lacked the enigma which its prequel had .
The dialogues were nowhere near the great dialogues of the prequel .
Not as great as "The Godfather" .3.5 Stars .
This book is better , but less famous than "The God Father"; because of less Americanized heroic suitableness . A story with loosely connected plot to the preceded novel, in which treachery with in the treachery and fetal mistake of Micheal Corleone changes fate of Giuliano Turi, he died younger but lived longer than many old. The character portrayed reminds of che guevara, who met the same fate by CIA.A must read, spell bounding , taste better with tea and winter .
Thrilling, Idealistic and absolutely devastating! A chilling portrait of a young idealistic man, killed in the pursuit of his dreams by the very people he yearns to protect. Michael Corleone learns and grows into the murderous brotherhood of the Mafia and learns the merciless truth of his father's regime. A worthy followup to the legendary 'Godfather'
Solid tale about idle heroes. A realistic re-imagining of a tragic figure of a romantic past.
The writer of the famous Godfather books and script for the two famous movies has written this little tale about the last days of Michael Corleone's days on Sicily where he went after his misadventures defending his families honour.
The story tells about the history of Sicily, the face of the Mafia [which is not called that way at all in Sicily] and how Turi Guiliano became a sort of Robin Hood while robbing from the rich and giving to the poor.
We gte told the story through the main characters Michael Corleone, Turi Guiliano and Don Groce the leading man of crime on Sicily.
I have read several other books about the Mafia and how it operates, but this book illustrates this more clearly than of all of them.Its main hero is the bandit Salvatore Giuliano, who is portrayed rather too sympathetically as a kind of Robin Hood character, robbing the rich to help the poor.
When this fails, he tries to discredit and then eliminate Giuliano.In real life, Giuliano was behind the ruthless attack on innocent peasants that took place in May 1947 at Portella della Ginestra, close to the Arberesh town of Piana degli Albanesi.
The book was brilliant once I got over my initial disappointment.
You see, when I picked up the book I thought it was story on one my favorite ‘Godfather’ characters Michael Corleone with Salvatore Turi Giuliano playing a secondary character.
But as it turns out the book is about Turi and Michael is hardly in it.
Once I got over this fact and made peace that it wasn’t a sequel to ‘Godfather’ (unlike the description), the book was unputdownable.
I fell in love with Turi while reading the book and also while researching him on internet.
A fiction novel that introduces the reader to various aspects of the Sicilian mafia, its ties with the government and the people who live on the fringes of the mafia.
I enjoyed reading it, and learnt allot about the history of Sicily and the way this history molded the people of Sicily.
Through the description of his life, the reader gets acquainted with the mafia, it's code of honor, jargons and history.
It is not so clear what attracts us to criminals but when reading such a book , you identify with the criminals and are fascinated with their lives.
Having said this, it's not a surprise that I loved this book (as well).Some years ago before reading the Godfather, Puzo's most famous book, I had many doubts about how good could it be, since the movie trilogy is simply extraordinary, a masterpiece for my taste.
Now, before starting The Sicilian, for one more time I was really cautious, wondering, will it be as good as the Godfather, can it meet my expectations, or it will disappoint me?
As a literature character is absolutely wonderful, his story is a pure joy to read, the background is great and above all his romantic nature over life.
Sycylijczyk to bardzo dobra lektura, ale zdecydowanie inna od Ojca chrzestnego. Nie jest to też kontynuacja losów członków rodziny Corleone, dlatego nie ma co się na nią nastawiać i to mimo epizodycznej obecności Michaela. Niemniej, warta poznania i na pewno pozwalająca lepiej zrozumieć kulisy działania mafijnej „rodziny”.Cała opinia:http://www.kacikzksiazka.pl/2018/01/s...
Stopped at 32%As much as I loved The Godfather, this book was just dull, I wasn't paying attention to anything that was happening in the story :/
This book has kept upto it's title Sicilian. This book is about survival, be a antagonist or protagonist who survives wins. This book is about Salvatore "Turi" Guiliano who is a bandit but the Sicilian people love him as he is a robin hood for them. This story is about Tuti surviving against the friends of friends don corce. Who wins it is what the book is about. overall it's a goodread... ☺
Personally, I found it distracting and unnecessary for them to have been in the book and I felt it would have been a far better book without them.The unfortunate thing is that it detracted from the real story, and that is the tale of Salvatore Giuliano, the famous bandit of Sicily.
It’s a tale that not many people are familiar with and if you have any interest in Sicilian history, it’s worth learning.
Salvatore “Turi” Giuliano, Gaspare “Aspanu” Pisciotta were true, bigger than life characters, and Puzo manages to not only show us their magnificence, but their faults in glorious perfection.
'The Sicilian' was the book that introduced me to the writings of Mario Puzo and it is an absolute page-turner. Puzo narrates a stunning tale of adventure, treachery, bloodshed, love and justice set in a post-war Sicilian landscape with so much flair and mastery over storytelling. The book tells the story of a young Sicilian outlaw-hero named Salvatore Guiliano - who is a Robin Hood like figure who climbs to the top of Sicilian criminal hierarchy - and loosely intertwines his tale based on some real-history with that of Michael Corleone to produce a thoroughly enjoyable read.
Had to force myself to finish this book. Wasn't what I expected. What I expected was a continuation of The Godfather story, but this book centered around a Sicilian bandit in the post WWII years in Sicily. Not very interesting to me.
who wants my freedom? me! he who wants to deprive my freedom just takes my life first, but before that he shall kill me and my soul first！
It's not difficult to see why Mario Puzo has garnered a cult following even decades after this book, and the Godfather series by extension, was published.
His narrative style is an art form by itself; there is something magnetic about his matter-of-fact storytelling that is unpretentious and gets to the point.
Puzo is also a master in depicting the archetypal anti-hero and eliciting the reader's sympathy for him.
We may not know the real Salvatore Giuliano (whom Guiliano in the book is based on) but Puzo gives him the ultimate Robin Hood-esque immortalisation here.
Side note: would wish to meet Puzo if he was still alive :(
After having loved The Godfather, the first in Puzo's Mafia series, I think there may have been a bit of the second novel blues here.I just wasn't interested in Giuliano's story, not until the very end when he got involved with the widow next door who was 15 years his senior and then married a 17 year old girl.
The last eight or so chapters were the most gripping but The Sicilian for me lacked the intrigue of The Godfather and just didn't ring out to me as much as its predecessor as a classic of mafia fiction.
Eine schöne Geschichte über Freundschaft, Macht, Liebe und Gerechtigkeit. Die Verbindungen zu Mario Puzos "Der Pate" sind zwar gering, dafür aber an den richtigen Stellen platziert. Das Wiedersehen mit Michael Corleone in Sizilien und die Reise nach Amerika fügen sich gut in das Gesamtepos ein.Die vielen Charaktere und Namen sind teilweise verwirrend und regen nicht besonders zum Weiterlesen an. Allerdings baut sich der Spannungsbogen stetig auf, so dass insbesondere die zweite Hälfte des Buches sehr kurzweilig ist.Für alle Fans des "Paten" ist diese Geschichte zu empfehlen.
Once again, Mario Puzo did not disappoint!! This was so good; the ending is bloody and griping!!! I loved the new characters and the constant dirty planning to get what they wanted. Turi Guiliano killed me with his dirty schemes on Don Croce!!! VERY GOOD.. I didn’t expect that Guiliano would be murdered by his childhood best friend, and second in command!!! So many awesome deaths!!!! It only took me a while to read because of school!! Puzo is truly a Crime Mastermind!!!
Love it!One of the best Godfather classics! Can't stop reading it once I get hooked on to it! True novel classic!
