https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/222233.Shackleton_s_Boat_Journey
I'd already read Worsley's "Endurance" and fell in love with the land of Ice. That book covers their entire journey while this little book zooms in on the truly horrifyingly-exciting adventure of that story: The last leg of an amazing time in the Antarctic by Shackleton et al.Worsley's account of the Endurance journey is my personal favorite so when I stumbled upon this at my public library I grabbed it quick.
A well written book by the captain of the Endurance, Frank Worsley, which covers, day-to-day, the epic journey of the James Caird over the storm invested South Atlantic in order to save the survivors of Shackleton's Antarctic expedition. The book was written shortly after the journey and is very descriptive of all the things as they happened, good read.
It took a little getting into because there was just so much sailing vocabulary I didn't know, but I ended up reading through without stopping (much to my chagrin tomorrow morning, I expect).
Recommended by a patron as this is the 100th anniversary of Shackleton's expedition.
A surprisingly fast read and a gripping adventure, plus the added thrill of being a memoir by a man who actually referred to Sir Ernest* as "Shacks." *("For scientific discover, give me Scott; for speed and efficiency of travel, give me Amundsen; but when disaster strikes and all hope is gone, get down on your knees and pray for Shackleton." says the jacket.)
Loved this book. What a crazy adventure. What could be more fun then hanging with Shackleton in Antarctica? I could almost feel the cold as I read this book. Burr.
I generally read this type of book in mid-winter by an open window after having had a cold shower from which I spare myself the luxury of drying off.
I'd previously read Shackleton's account of the journey, so this book was primarily a compare-and-contrast exercise which bestowed the perspective of one who hadn't (at least to Shackleton's degree) shouldered the burden of responsibility.
Their accounts almost entirely accord, including the albatross fledglings meeting a noble and exceedingly tasty end in their cooking pots.Thrill yourself with this short read if you're as addicted to Arctic/Antarctic exploration and humans straddling the the limits of discomfort as I am.
I have read as much as I could put my hands on regarding the Endurance expedition of Sir Ernest Shackleton. There is simply not a better adventure story out there than this one. Worsley was Shackleton's ship captain; a man of courage, strength, and determination.Worsley was also an amazing seaman, navigating a 22 foot open boat hundreds of miles through uncharted waters in a hurricane. Amazing just doesn't cover it. But don't start with this book. "Endurance" is his seminal work and you should begin there.
This book doesn't cover the whole expedition; it starts when the men have t0 abandon their camp on the ice, and recounts the voyage to Elephant Island, the further voyage of a small group to South Georgia Island, and the crossing on foot by an even smaller group.
The day-to-day details are compelling; you really see the hardships they endured, and wonder how people can live through that.This is a short book and easy to read (if you don't get hung up on all the nautical terminology; most of it went over my head, but that's okay).
Vale la pena leer de primera mano historias reales de supervivencia como la del equipo de Shackleton cuando perdió su barco, destrozado por el hielo.
En este caso, la historia la narra el capitán del barco.
Qué simple parece esta aventura en que estuvieron un año y medio siempre húmedos, viviendo bajo una barca vuelta del revés sobre el hielo, navegando a merced del viento y las corrientes y utilizando los conocimientos de la zona y del cielo para tratar de alcanzar una isla ballenera que les socorriera.No dejo de asombrarme nunca de qué es capaz la humanidad, y vale la pena vivirlo de primera mano para minimizar las tonterías propias de vez en cuando.
Captain Frank Worsley writes concisely and poignantly in his telling of the heroic journey to survive when all odds were against Shackleton and his men. I loved the insight and peak into this mans brain filled with incredible sailing and navigational knowledge. His skill set was paramount; this I believe with Shackleton's leadership, Wild's steadfast courage, more than Providence itself is what truly guided the men aboard the ill fated Endurance home safely. Excellent and noble adventurers who history should never forget.
This book is not as polished as "Endurance", but it written by a man who was there with E.Shackleton and lived through that dramatic survival story.
Many of the details he adds give new insight into the minds of these men.
Some of the details are a bit technical regarding sailing & navigation & I didn't really understand them.
Scattered throughout the tale are his insertion of how the men eventually died.
Since other accounts want to emphasize that all hands survived against all odds, it shocked me to think that many returned home only to die in other (useless) ways.
I’m in awe of the tenacity of the men who survived the adventure this book describes. Their irrepressible hopefulness and the determined resourcefulness is an incredible example to me. It’s truly amazing that they survived such a journey, and the suspense in Worsley’s telling of the tale never lets up until the very last page. I’ve read Shackleton’s own account of this same journey, but I loved this book even more!
I read this book because it was recommended by NOLS as a leadership book, but I found it lacking in any details on leadership (besides explaining that Shackleton was a great leader because he always had a positive attitude, knew exactly what to say and had the highest concern for his men). Still it was an inspiring story and a quick read. There was a lot of nautical vocabulary that I didn't know, but I don't think that really took much away from the story.
A short book, that took longer to read than expected, because I kept stopping to look-up some of the nautical terms on Google! I feel like I've been on a mini adventure and an emotional rolercoaster reading this book. Surprisingly witty, but all the better for it. A good book, well worth a read.
Epic.
https://icannever.wordpress.com/2018/...
First-person account of the fantastic journey to save the men stranded on Elephant island. Most endearing moment: trying to hide his ripped pants from ladies’ eyes.
Wow!
That this group of humans survived this journey is nothing short of amazing.
And 100 years ago!
It seemed to take forever to read it; mostly because I paused at the photos for so long.
143 pages should not take so long, but I felt exhausted reading along, as the crew met trial after trial.
Worsley has a great way of telling the story, and although it was sometimes difficult with terminology (not being a seaman myself) I was caught up in it.
It makes Jungle: A Harrowing True Story of Survival in the Amazon look like a field trip.
However, the most amazing story of survival that I know of is that of Shackleton’s 1914-16 expedition to Antarctica.Shackleton’s Boat Journey, written by F.A Worsley, captain of the H.M.S Endurance, begins after this ship was crushed by ice.
Shackleton, Worsely and four others then embarked upon a remarkable journey in the James Caird, a 22 foot long boat in order to reach South Georgia Island and eventual rescue.
If that wasn’t enough, three of the six, including Shackleton and Worsely then traipse through knee deep snow and ice from one side of South Georgia Island to the other in order to reach a whaling station.Suspenseful, the book is also surprisingly well written.
Worsley, documents the trek from the crushed ship, using three small (20 to 22 feet long) boats from the Weddell Sea to Elephant Island to South Georgia over the course of several months, from 27 October 1915 to 22 May 1916.
The book was written by Worsley who was an active participant in all portions of the adventure and so must be seen as a credible account.
Read this book and discover what "tough" really means.
I read the Folio Society edition (Shackleton's Boat Adventure) which included a few photos and detailed end-paper maps front and back which were invaluable in tracing trip progress.
I read this edition, written by the captain of this epic expedition thinking that the first-person account would be the very best.
I felt like I got a good overview of the basic facts, but from kind of a quiet, humble old sailor.
He reveres Shackleton from start to finish.
One charming touch; a heading at the top of each page kind of describes whats going on on that page.
Lately I have been reading a lot about Aron Ralston, the Utah climber who saved his own life by amputating his own arm.
p170 describes Shackleton's care of his men;
Most are extracts of the real history, pieced together the way histories usually are.
This is the real thing.
Worsley wrote the book, seven years after he was a key character in the actual events.Worsely was the navigator.
He was the won who navigated the three boats from the edge of the ice to Elephant Island.
He does not go on and on about the heroic behavior of the crew, but lets it come through as he describes the event.People often talk about then Lt Bligh's magnificent open boat voyage after the mutiny.
Another truly great adventure story (although the saga of how he came to be in the predicament is a rather sorry one,) is that of Shackleton’s great boat journey.
After his ship became trapped and crushed in the ice during an abortive attempt at a sea-to-sea overland journey across Antarctica, Ernest Shackleton led a group of six men (the remaining crew were left behind to wait for rescue) in a 22-foot boat across some 800 miles of the stormiest ocean known to man at the height of winter.
The voyage is narrated by F.A. Worsley, captain of Shackleton’s ship, the Endurance.
From there he returned to rescue the men left behind.
Years ago I read Alfred Lansing's book "Endurance: Shackleton's Incredible Voyage", and was totally gripped by the endurance and courage of these men.
I always had a special interest in Frank Worsley as my parents retired to Akaroa (NZ) about 20 years ago and I have a photo of the house there in which he was born (marked by a plaque).
Reading his own (extremely well written) first-hand account of the risky and heroic voyages on the open sea in tiny 20-22 foot open boats, first from the pack-ice to Elephant Island and then from there to South Georgia Island through some of the worst seas in the world was truly inspiring, as was the trek across the mountains and glaciers of South Georgia Island to reach the whaling station and get help.
This is a thrilling account of one of the most daring, desparate and dangerous journeys ever undertaken.It a short, no frills account from the lauch of the 3 boats from the ice floe to eventual successful rescue of the 22 men left on Elephat Island.As it is a first hand account there is minimum surmising or post-fact elaboration.If I had 1 critism is that the foot note about the "James Caird" being at the National Maritime Museum is out of date - the boat is at Dulwich College again.I would recommend this book to everyone.
Fantastic little adventure story. The writing is quite vibrant and feels fresh; the only unfortunate thing is that the author assumes a familiarity with some navigational devices and the geography of the area, which I think is unfamiliar to the modern reader. You can't fault him for that - after all, the book is a hundred years old, but it does mean that there are some confusing passages.Still, highly worth reading as a late-Victorian tale of real-life adventure, by someone who was actually there.
This is a fascinating read, written by someone who was actually on the tip and therefore all the more powerful for that.
It is couched in terms and language of the day so also makes for a great insight into the thinking of the times.
It is hard to imagine that world in today's high tech situation.
If Shackleton hadn't braved this journey all his party would probably have died - nobody knew where they were and of course there was no way for them to contact the outside world.It is a relatively short book but has a lot to tell us about leadership even today.
A first-hand account of Sir Ernest Shackleton's disastrous expedition to Antarctica. Favorite lines:1. "At all times [Shackleton] inspired men with a feeling, often illogical, that, even if things got worse, he would devise some means of easing their hardships" (170). 2. "It seemed to me that among all [Shackleton's] achievements and triumphs, great as they were, his one failure was the most glorious. By self-sacrifice and throwing his own life into the balance he saved every one of his men--not a life was lost--although at times it had looked unlikely that one could be saved" (220).
A wonderful short book recommended for anyone who is familiar with the Shackleton Endurance expedition and wants to read more. Worsley was the captain of the Endurance and was also the navigator on the rescue journey from Elephant Island to South Georgia and over the South Georgia mountains to Stromness Bay. This is his recollection of the trip from when the crew left the ice pack for Elephant Island through the ultimate rescue of the entire crew. Not a good starting point to learn about the ill-fated expedition, but a great page-turner if you have read about it already.
This book was short and an easy read. It was a journal format for one of the people that was with Sir Shackleton. The amazing thing is how beautiful he described Shackleton's leadership qualities. There was a definite devotion that his men had for him. He did not lose one person on this unfortunate event of being stranded. And he cared immensely for all of his men. It is also a tribute to what we as humans are able to endure when it comes to hardships but also ingenuity in survival skills.
A fascinating contrast to Shackleton's South, written in a much more informal style and focusing primarily on the titular boat journey to South Georgia. It's a great narrative no matter who writes it, and Worsley's buoyant prose leaves you in awe of what he and the others on the James Caird lived through without being depressing. Some of the language is outdated, but still a good and engaging introduction to the Endurance expedition.
