https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/9444.The_Complete_Collected_Poems

this beautiful hard cover book was delivered the very next day in which I dropped all of my other reading, The Good Lord Bird, to experience the world of poetry by Maya Angelou.
What a wonderful book filled with some of her most popular poems like Phenomenal Woman and Still I Rise, but also of lesser know poems which should have a place along side the popular ones.
If you haven't read any of Maya Angelou's poems or you're just interested in reading outstanding, lyrical poetry this is a perfect place to start.
Black, bitter,and beautiful, she speaks of our survival." (quoted from the inside flap of the book) It is a must read in American poetry!
His lidless eye slid sideways,and he rose into my deepestyearning, bringinggifts of ready rhythms, andhourly wound aroundmy chest,holding me fast in tautsecurity,Then, glistening like diamonds strewnupon a black girl's belly,he left me.
And nothingremains.
Beneath my leftbreast, two perfect identical punctures,through which I claimthe air I breathe andthe slithering sound of my own skinmoving in the dark.**I've had this collection for three years and somehow at the end of each year, I've always revisited it and every year, I find something new in what I've already read.
There's so much being addressed in this collection, so many spoken for, that it becomes much more than just a poetry collection.**
Actual rating, 3.7 stars. I loved most of the poems in this collection but a few of them just didn't click with me probably because I wasn't familiar with the sociocultural contexts within.
She came to my college to give a lecture. Unfortunately, as I was the night circulation supervisor in the library, I couldn't go. But - my favorite literature teacher, Helen Cullins Smith (who was the lady responsible for Ms. Angelou's coming) gave her the poem I'd been inspired to write...Helen came into the library the next day and gave me an announcement that Maya had signed...it said "Wanda Lea — Write On!" I'm still reading her works.
A beautiful collection of poems by the wonderful and amazing poet, the late Maya Angelou.There is really nothing else that needs said.
I hold Maya Angelou as an icon in my mind, a source of wisdom and grace. This collection also reminds me that she was a brilliantly passionate, even angry, black woman. I was sometimes uncomfortable, often moved, driven to read lines two or three times and always, always in awe. That's good poetry.Plus, my very favorite Angelou one-liner:Does my sassiness upset you?
EqualityYou declare you see me dimly through a glass which will not shine,though I stand before you boldly, trim in rank and marking time.You do own to hear me faintlyas a whisper out of range, while my drums beat out the messageand the rhythms never change.Equality, and I will be free.Equality, and I will be free.You announce my ways are wanton,that I fly from man to man,but if I'm just a shadow to you,could you ever understand?We have lived a painful history,we know the shameful past,but I keep on marching forward,and you keep on coming last.Equality, and I will be free.Equality, and I will be free.Take the blinders from your vision,take the padding from your ears,and confess you've heard me crying,and admit you've seen my tears.Hear the tempo so compelling,hear the blood throb in my veins.Yes, my drums are beating nightly,and the rhythms never change.Equality, and I will be free.Equality, and I will be free.
I love Maya Angelou and was so sad when she past away.I don't read poetry usually but loved Maya Angelou's work and loved hearing her when she recited her work. While reading this I could image Ms. Angelou reciting it in her beautiful deep voice that had so much character to it. A range of subjects from rights of a people a gender to spiritual beliefs. Beautiful!
Sacrilegious to give this less than 5 stars, I know, but the problem is that the collection is a little too complete.
And unfortunately, not all the adolescent stuff is that early:GreydayThe day hangs heavyloose and greywhen you're away.A crown of thornsa shirt of hairis what I wear.No one knowsmy lonely heartwhen we're apart.I don't care if this is about mooning over a missing lover or a loss of faith, it's just awful.
We all have these moments as poets, but someone should know better than to let her put this in a collection.
Since the beginning of the collective conscience of mankind, even before we discovered how to write and read, humans have always expressed feelings in the form of words flowing in rhythm or should I say poetry.Maya Angelou has a sense of sudden sentimental tenderness, her words will make you part of the situation within a second.
This book engulfs a complete collection of her poems and it has been absolutely brilliant.
I feel really sensible after reading her work.
I think I am gonna write a blog about it.I personally and gratefully thank Maya Angelou for writing these amazing short poems and sharing with us.
I am reviewing the poem "Phenomenal Woman".This is a poem that states how phenomenal women are.
It reminds us that we are phenomenal because we are strong, able to take care of so many other people, take care of our homes, our families yet able to have careers.
Women are phenomenal because we can do it all and be so much to so many people.
It makes me feel empowered and strong!I would recommend this poem for young woman ages 17-25 because that is when we are at an age where we need to be reminded just how capable and in control we are.
With the passing of Maya Angelou, I decided to read some of her work which somehow I had missed previously.
I finished I Know Why a Caged Bird Sings earlier this summer and now I have finished The Complete Collected Poems.
Like any collection of poems, there are some that I like better than others.
Some of my favorites include:Pickin Em Up and Layin Em DownPoor GirlPrisonerSong for the Old OnesPhenomenal WomanMenOne More RoundAmoebaean for DaddyHuman FamilyWhen Old Folks LaughWhile Angelou will not be on my list of favorite poets, I have a lot of respect for anyone who writes poetry.
This book is definitely worth reading.
This is beautiful.
Having read 'I know why the caged bird sings', I was interested in picking up some of Angelou's poetry, and chose this collection on the recommendation of my mother.
Angelou's use of language and form is refreshing and striking, and her boldness in addressing topics such as race and sexism is admirable.
My favourite poems came early on in the collection, and were mostly shorter pieces that seemed to give a snippet into Angelou's mind in a very relatable, lovely way, but the collection as a whole was amazing, with only one or two poems that I felt fell short of the very high bar Angelou set with her autobiographical novels.
As with all collections, my rating refers to my overall impression, an informal average. In this set of poems, I found several which I loved for the rhythym & rhyme, several others I loved for the content. Others I found stirred up my feelings, which I admire and are powerful but disturbing. Only a few left me uninterested.I would strongly recommend this poetry, especially to women. Angelou has a strong feminist voice as well as a voice for African-Americans. She captures the anger as well as the pride, the hope and the despair.
This is truly a wonderful book that is good for the soul. I had read many of Maya Angelou's books before, so had read many of the poems before. Yet, as I read through them all with this reading -- in less than a day -- I found myself once again inspired, moved, touched, and so much more. I am sure I will return and read this book a few more times.
Angelou's poems are like songs that tell passionate, personal stories. She speaks with depth and intimacy. She uses the vernacular of black American heritage to reveal ourselves to us, our humanness, in all its frightening, shameful, mysterious and wonderful aspects. Powerful and involving.
The spirit of love that is entrenched in her desire for social change is always a breath of fresh air.
A poem by Maya Angelou anytime is a fine good read. Very now and then I like to take a big huge dose of her great work.
I don't own many poetry books, but this is one of the few and a rare jewel among them. My favorite poem is I Know Why The Caged Bird Sings, since it's meaning is different for whoever reads it.
Some good, some bad. Or maybe it was more a case of some okay, some bloody amazing. I'd recommend reading those from 'And Still I Rise' and go from there.
I think the book is much better than what I gave it credit for. However, I had a hard time understanding a lot of the poems and therefore I couldn't like it as much. But the ones I understood were great!
Stunning and hauntingly beautiful collection of poetry. Maya Angelou was truly an amazing woman.We seek success in Finland,are born and die in Maine.In minor ways we differ,in major we're the same.I note the obvious differencesbetween each sort and type,but we are more alike, my friends,than we are unalike.
Of course, all poets want to be their own voice, and she really is that.
It's just that some of her things have a Hughes quality to them.There are masterful poems throughout the book.
A few of my favorites are "Late October" with its gently reflective cast, the impatient "The Telephone," and "He Went Home." There are too many wonderful poems to count.
It's funny; I always enjoyed the few Angelou poems I heard others quote, and I respected the few that I heard aloud but didn't always understand.
I guess it proves (at least, in my case) that poets are often treasured more after their passing.
THIS WAS THE BEST BOOK I HAVE EVER READ!!!! IT IS VERY VERY VERY VERY INSPIRAIONAL!
Maya Angelou was an incredible woman to me, one who spoke to truth every time she had the opportunity to meet another human being. My favorite poem in this collection is Phenomenal Woman, but there are poems that would touch anyone. I will be adding this creation to my library in the future in order to continue hearing Miss Angelou's voice in my ear. What a gift she has, and continues to be to this world.
WHEN YOU COME TO MEWhen you come to me, unbidden,Beckoning meTo long-ago rooms,Where memories lie.Offering me, as to a child, an attic,Gatherings of days too few,Bauble of stolen kisses,Trinkets of borrowed loves,Trucks of secret words,I cry.
Invigorated, reduced to tears, moved...this collection speaks through years, fears, triumphs, atrocities, and dreams. If only I had gained the chance to sit and speak awhile with Maya Angelou.... The Complete Collected Poems, at least, exists, and shares thoughts and experiences bigger than just one soul.
In The Complete Collected Poems, all of Maya Angelou’s works come together in one place to paint a complete picture of the poet and the world which she inhabits.
Angelou celebrates the power and beauty of the physical body as well as the strength found within the color of her skin as well as her femininity.
Although I am not African American, I am still able to connect with Angelou’s work because I am a woman.
The praise and power Angelou gives the feminine experience is relevant to the world in which we live today.
Her recent passing away made me go back to these beautiful poems and although I admit there are some of them I really can't relate to as I've never had to go through the same sufferings as she has, they're nonetheless very soul-moving.
And my all time favorite poem from her is "Phenomenal Woman" and it goes like this;Pretty woman wonder where my secret lies.I'm not cute or built to suit a fashion model's sizeBut when I start to tell them,They think I'm telling lies.I say,It's in the reach of my arms,The span of my hips,The stride in my step,The curl of my lips.I'm a womanPhenomenally.Phenomenal woman,That's me.I walk into a roomJust as cool as you please,And to a man,The fellows stand orFall down on their knees.Then they swarm around me,A hive of honey bees.I say,It's the fire in my eyes,And the flash of my teeth,The swing in my waist,And the joy in my feet.
