https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/8820.The_Doctor_is_Sick
This rambunctious brain-surgery-gone-bad comedy is the liveliest and most schizophrenic novel from Burgess yet.
The professor protagonist Edwin is scheduled for a brain operation from an eccentric trumpet-playing doctor, but after his head is shaved for the procedure, flees the hospital into an underworld of kettle-selling sadomasochists, phonetic Cockney wideboys, German vamps, bald-headed men competitions, and promiscuously adulterous wives.
Rich in various dialects (East London to German to Scots to RP) and whizz-bang verbal dexterity, this comic novel sees Burgess coming into his own as a master of language and intellectually accessible humour—a barmily unpredictable writer capable of seemingly anything.
Seriously hilarious.
Takip etmesi zor ama eğlenceli bir hikaye. Orijinal dilinde okunsa çok daha fazla keyif alınabilir. Kelime oyunlarıyla dolu bir eseri çevirmenin zorluğunu tahmin edebiliyorum ancak ilave açıklamalar ve dipnotlarla belki biraz daha geliştirilebilirdi.
The structure of the main character going through a difficult journey is the same -and confronting surreal or out-of-wack situations via the journey is part of the fun in both Burgess books.
Also I think the main draw to Burgress' work is his language play.
Here is an author who loves the accent of the local population - and being set in London, its highly an adventure to accents and class structures.
I didn't love the novel, but found it very interesting.
I think because I am obsessed with London as a literary landscape, and Burgess uses that landscape quite well.
Biraz postmodern denilen tarzda, zaman zaman dıkıcı ve zorlamalı, keyifli bir okuma sunmuyor. Neden bu kadar övgü almış anlamadım.
This is a very funny book. You will enjoy it in a bit different way if you know that A. Burgess was diagnosed with a brain tumor that time, and went through all the most unpleasant brain checks himself.
Además, ella tiende a mandar a algunos de esos hombres al hospital a que le hagan compañía a Edwin en lugar de ella.
El resultado de esto es que él huye del hospital y, por falta de dinero, ropa y no saber dónde ir, termina en los bajos barrios rodeado de individuos súper raros.La novela en su mayor parte es una humorada, el viaje kafkiano de un pobre hombre demasiado obsesionado con juegos de palabras y la estructura de palabras en un mundo que no conoce ni comprende mucho; en muchos aspectos recuerda a la película de Scorsese After Hours.
The characters are all absurd, unique and absolutely mad (so many of them felt like they'd be right at home in Lewis Carroll's Wonderland) but it is the use of their accent which really endeared many of them to me.Another interesting use of language in this book is the actual description of the origin and etymology of words and phrases in the book.
The book isn't in the first person, but it does use an omipresent narrator who can get inside Edwin's mind and we can see the marvellous way he absorbs and deciphers conversation with people.
I wanted to like it more than I did, but I'm a precious flower and I hate the idea of having nowhere to sleep at night, so when characters choose such a lifestyle, I find it difficult to enjoy the story.
Which is stupid, I know.I never expected to like any Burgess, though, so at least that's over.
If I didn't need so much to identify with a character, I'd have enjoyed the story more, but it was all so alien and kind of wonderfully horrible I had a harder time with it than necessary.In sum: I appreciated the playing with language, but overall it left me cold in a way that speaks poorly about my ability to read a book than the book itself.
This is one of my favorite books of all time. Burgess is a master of language and wit, and the dialogue in this book is wonderful. The story is great and filled with humor as the hero delves deeper and deeper into a society of which he knows nothing and fits into not at all.
I guess the reason that why I have enjoyed this book so much is because I had an emotional connection with Edwin(main character).
I have also enjoyed the way he describe London and other characters.
The book was funny, sad and of course it was keen.
Also most of the Turkish readers are complaining about the story line is too complicated and it is hard to finish the book.
I say, it is not about the book it is about the translation.
So you shouldn't vote in this platform.
Kitabın içine bir türlü giremedim, orijinal dilinde okuyabilmeyi çok isterdim. Hikaye çoğu yerde çiğ kalıyor ama bazı yerlerde kendisini sevdirmeyi başarıyor gibiydi. Çok çalkantılı düşünceler içindeyim bu kitapla ilgili. Sevdim ama bir yandan hiç sevmedim. Fakat haftalarca elimde sürünmesine bakılırsa sanırım sevmedim kısmı ağır basıyor :(
it's supposed to be a comedy but I thought it was uniformly sad. The more I read burgess the more I realize he was probably a significantly bitter or hateful person, portraying women, queers, racial minorities rarely as anything other than invariably villainous
3,75 gibi bir şey olabilir çünkü kafam çok karıştı ve elimde süründü
It was interesting, just didn't really get that into it.
This is one of my top 3 favorite books of all time--a book I'd want with me on a desert island.
(The other two are Gone With The Wind and a book written in the 1950's called Horseracing, but I digress.)Full of rich language, implausible situations, and intellectual fun, this tale of a PhD who finds himself in the hospital due to a brain tumor is very close to what actually happened in Burgess' life.
He was told he had one year to live and subsequently started churning out books.
Burgess is, of course, my favorite author.
Another quirky, absurd, existentialist novel. When the story is coherent, it is an enjoyable read, aided by Burgess' knack for dry wit. Too often, however, I found the story muddled by comedic surrealism that neither engaged the reader nor offered any profound insight into the mind of the main character. I came very close to giving this three stars based on the parts I did enjoy (and based on the fact that other books to which I have given two stars were not as enjoyable as this one), but overall I found the book too hit-and-miss to garner my recommendation.
Very interesting if you're into allusions, freeform symbolism, and linguistics, possibly less so if not. Like a lot of Burgess, language is key--the man is enamoured with wordplay, and while that's part of why I love him as an author, I suspect he may be nonsensical or just tedious to an unprepared reader.I'd complain about the ending 'twist,' but it's not the worst thing in the world. Probably better than the alternative, actually. Not my favourite Burgess overall, but certainly not the worst.
I ended up enjoying this book though it was hard to get into. In a way this is a surreal story, dealing with themes similar to Kafka's Metamorphosis. The subject has taken ill, feels objectified and dehumanized by the medical bureaucracy, and ultimately abandoned by his wife. I always enjoy Burgess's word play and knowledge of etymology - so it helps to have a geeky appreciation of language when approaching his novels.
A fantastically enjoyable read. Entertaining, whimsical and enlightening(literarily). Burgess has such a knack for creating characters and this book is a prime example of that. Maybe not the most insightful novel of all time, but an instant favorite of mine and one that is well worth the read. I recommend it to any Burgess fan.
If you enjoy words (etymology, philology, and so forth) and feel reality is overrated--or at least that being grounded in it is--then this is the book for you. Burgess' prose is extraordinary, but if you're the sort of reader who needs to know which way is up, this particular novel won't fit your taste.
A wild, bewildering but occasionally wearisome ride. I'm not too interested in thick accents-as-humour, characters so exaggerated that they verge on the point of pure caricature, and games men play in pubs, so it wasn't as amusing as it might have been.
I didn't get it. I have no idea what happened or why. Is the protagonist crazy? Is it the world that's crazy? Was it all a dream? Someday in the not too distant future, I will pick this book up off my shelf and realize I have absolutely no memory of it whatsoever.
I Didn't really get into this book. It was either just not my thing or it was way over my head. It starts making more sense at the end, but for the most part I was happy when I finally finished it. The premise of the book sounded promising, but it just didn't do it for me.
A little dated to be sure, but I can't wait to re-read this next year or later. Very accessible for Burgess, (didn't have to look up anything until the last third!) Poor Edwin. At least I have the comfort of knowing that the brain tumor scared Burgess enough to write, write, write.
Understanding the dialects is a challenge but an interesting read overall
I read this in the heels of A Clockwork Orange - one of my favorite books. I was disappointed. Perhaps under a different situation I would have enjoyed it more.
this is one of the coolest novels i have ever read.burgess uses language in an entirely unique way.read it!!!!
Det här börjar väldigt bra.Fortsatte lika bra som det började!Charmig, välskriven, humoristisk. Ett sant nöje att läsa!
Read this in the hospital, which is a very fitting place.
The Doctor Is Sick
