https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/399373.The_Swords_Trilogy

This series is part of the larger Eternal Champion cycle.
What places this trilogy a cut above other well written books is the "epic fantasy" aspect of the story that places it within the context of a much larger battle between the Lords of War and Chaos being waged across multiple planes of existence (i.e., part of the Eternal Champion sotryline).
Fast paced, fun to read, larger than life heroes and villians, imaginative settings and a well thought out plot that never got convoluted despite the "plane" jumping nature of the story.
So much "the whole idea" of Corum that I can honestly say I have never finished the book that contains the last three stories in the Corum series (Oak and the Ram, Bull and the Spear, one other, something like that).Written again in typical Moorcock style with a really encompassing welcoming quality that puts you into the world.
I'd have to say my favorite of the three books within this one is The Queen of the Swords, since I decided to be inspired by Xiombarg aka "the most beautiful woman who had ever existed" pretty much right after that and it led to a really hilarious time in Jr. High School.
This was because in the olden days we had no Wikipedia with detailed entries on fantasy book series'.In the way of fantasy books, the hero having lost a hand and an eye through carelessness while being tortured, magically acquires new ones as part of a deal, as one knows there is a need to be careful of gifts which look too good to be true, in this case the new hand and eye are at times still under the control of their previous owners whose interests remain hidden from the hero until late in the series.
Moorcock wrote these things quickly, and after the first novel, it shows(which is exactly how the Elric novels unfolded for me).
Characters flatten out, action scenes are by the numbers, etc.
On the good side is Moorcock's amazing imagination: a flying cat, a flying shark, a magical kite that can carry people, zombie slaves used (a bit too often) by the hero (Corum) whenever things get tight, multiple dimensions, tantrum throwing and shape shifting gods, and so on.
One thing to pay attention to is Moorcock's use of settings.
I've read that some consider Corum a step down from Elric.
Bastante inferior a Elric, a pesar de que en el final el autor lo meta como personaje para intentar remontar esta aventura brusca, rápida y caóticaEs la clásica aventura de capa y brujería, sin complicaciones ni profundizar en los personajes. Esto lo cumple, pero lo que debería hacer bien, que es la aventura, peleas y malvados. No lo hace. Aun deseando una historia rápida, esta me ha parecido excesiva, todo pasaba como si faltaran frases. Una locura…
nothing personal!))The Knight of Swords is very archetypal, with a basic hero cycle (will the hero stay good or will he get sucked into evil) but there is also a long view highlighted in the book (is there such thing as good and evil as far as the universe is concerned?) Luckily Corum quickly goes from being an airy elf to being contaminated by the anger, love and lust of a lowly Mabdem (human) so it is possible to root for him.
Again, I think I could hear Mr. M chuckling at that one.So Moorcock's Eternal Heroes are doomed to struggle forever and ever, and Jhary-a-Conel has never found a world free from strife and suffering and conflict.
He's not a particularly cheerful character, but he lacks the excessive grimness of Elric, Moorcock's best remembered protagonist, and his motivations (revenge and love) offer simple points of identification.Corum, ah um...For me, it's the cosmic plane-hopping and underlying struggle between Law and Chaos that provide the Corum books with both their strengths and shortcomings.
And in a universe where anything goes, it's hard to make the resolution of any plot point wholly convincing.The Corum novels are not Moorcock's best, then.
And it works both as an introduction to Moorcock's simultaneously blunt and poetic style, Corum as a character and as a facet of the Eternal Champion, and to the concept of Moorcock's multiverse itself.Corum himself is a bit of an archetypal questing hero, just as the stories themselves are archetypal quests replete with increasingly powerful "end-of-level" bosses which must be defeated for him to achieve some degree of peace (the final boss is defeated by a literal deus ex machina, albeit one flagged up as early as the grafting-on of Corum's new hand).
A classic Moorcock fantasy composed of three parts.
The first part (The Knight of the Swords) is definitely the best one has it includes a wonderful demonstration of Moorcock's imagination combined with a poetic topography.
It literally reads as a classic fairy tale even though gruesome at times.
The other two parts (The Queen of the Swords and The King of the Swords) are definitely imaginative, but lack the poetic flavor of the first part.
However, the book is definitely entertaining and should be on the shelves of any fan of high fantasy.
I hadn't been into fantasy books long before Moorcock was recommended to me, and I picked up a rather old edition of this in battered paperback.
It's very imaginative, even for a fantasy, and everyone loves a good old fashioned tale about vengeance.I liked the characters more than expected, to be honest.
Corum is your cut-and-paste archetypal hero, with both serious handicaps and magic powers, a sense of righteous justice, the soul of a poet, and nifty blade skills.
I will recommend this to any staunch reader of fantasy, especially someone who wants an old classic, and recommend also the others in the Eternal Champions series.
This was one of my favorite books from my early teen years. It is probably not a technically perfect book, and I really can't remember all the details of the story, but I love Moorcock's storytelling, and Corum is perhaps my favorite character of his, even more so than Elric. I love how these stories languish in the settings they portray. This series has probably been the strongest foundation for my tastes in fantasy fiction of any other book besides the Shannara books.
I expected a level of pulp with these and, with the pulp, a certain amount of sameness in the plots. I got that, certainly, but what I didn't expect was the subtleties in the plot of each story that raised each above mere pulp. These are good and well worth your time to read.
A good tale of another eternal champion although not as engaging as other characters Moorcock has created.
https://nwhyte.livejournal.com/2921219.htmlThis trilogy, first published in 1971, is the first of two trilogies featuring Corum Jhaelen Irsei, one of the incarnations of Moorcock's Eternal Champion; the first and third volumes won the first two August Derleth Awards.
I'm not super familiar with Moorcock's heroic fantasies; I did find it striking that he successfully takes the traditional storyline of chivalry, questing and manly derring-do, and underpins it with lashings of melancholy, destiny, and cosmic balance.
Also, unusually for Moorcock, he rooted a lot of the vocabulary in a real language, Cornish, which I felt gave it a bit more sub-surface coherence.
This was my first foray into Fantasy when I was a young man some Forty years ago the names where difficult to pronounce but the story was captervating and intrigining and I remember hang in there and I am so glad I did it is one of favorite stories
good idea, but poor execution
Like Hawkmoon, Corum fights Chaos.
In the process, he makes a bargain he shouldn't have and is set on a path that will have him confronting the Sword Rulers--gods of Chaos which wrestled the Fifteen planes from Law. In itself, none of the 3 stories are anything special.
In Part 2, and more so in Part 3, Corum's journey involves an upbeat companion who is much-better informed of Corum's nature as the Eternal Champion, and Part 3 has Corum step outside his own Fifteen Planes and encounter several more versions of himself!.
And yes, going back to the main point: Corum is MUCH more interesting than Hawkmoon.
Given these books aren't all that long, it's difficult to expect deep characterization.
He is a bit of a deus ex machina in that he knows so much about the worlds that Corum travels through, but still…a great character.Least Favorite Character: The King of Men, Lyr. He’s a straw horse in the way that he is written.
And since Glandyth was the supervillain…one of the supervillains of the tale, it would have made good sense for him to have “been done” with the King far earlier than circumstance allowed him to be.Favorite Scene:The first time that Corum discovers the power of the jeweled Eye of Rhynn and the six-fingered Hand of Kwll.Plot Holes/Out of Character:At the time of the key when Corum is seeking assistance, Jhary acts out of character at that moment.
Corum fits the Eternal Champion mold well in the first three books of this six-book series-he's a chap who's rather like the rest of his race, normal from that perspective, but whose race is somewhat divorced from (older than, as are Elric's race) the humans who share a planet with them.
In other words, you've got an inkling of what's going on here simply because this is an Eternal Champion series and you've already read the Elric books.
Corum serves Law, rather than Chaos (as Elric does), and doesn't have any of the fatal weaknesses at the beginning of the book that other manifestations of the Champion do.
Sett till storyn är det egentligen inget speciellt och saknar den dragkraft som fanns hos Elric.
Det blir snabbt enformigt och att läsa alla tre böckerna i ett svep är inte att rekommendera om än att de som helhet ändå är läsvärda.
Detta är mest för att Moorcock med ett i grunden ganska grått material fortfarande lyckas skapa flera korta scener som är oerhört starka.
Första boken har inte mycket med författarens multiversum att göra men sedan blir det minst sagt åka av.
Även Corums ena hand är lite för välbekant då den starkt påminner om Stormbringer men utan Elric, vilket inte är till någons fördel.
In this, the old races, namely the Vadhagh and Nhadragh played key roles in the struggle between Law and Chaos.
It was both a rich and dark time, for the arrival of the Mabden had ushered in the Time of the Sword Rulers, Lords of Chaos who rule reality itself through corruption and the immorality of their mortal followers.
Against all odds, Corum Jhaelen Irsei, last of the Vadhagh, must escape those who would destroy him, ally himself with both gods and an unusual cast of characters and, armed with sorcerous gifts of unknown power, travel across the fifteen planes if Law and not Chaos is to win the day.
I first read this when I was going into third grade, convincing my grandmother to buy it because I thought the cover looked cool and I wanted to read an "adult" fantasy novel for myself (after my parents read me the Hobbit and the Lord of the Rings)… I spent an entire summer devouring it from front to cover.
Still love the fact that Kwll decides to murder *all the gods*, even those that were supposed to be the "good" gods.
As always, when reviewing Moorcock's work, it's difficult to know where to start.
The vivid imagination?
Should the reviewer concentrate on the philosophical underpinnings within the work, or re-examine everything they assumed about the fantasy genre.
It has often been said about Moorcock's work, that it inspires the reader to pen their own.
At times, these stylistic elements fall flat in Corum.
Characters go through the motions, plotlines flatline, and deux ex machina elements can wear a little thin.
But as always, for sheer imagination, vision, and entertainment, Moorcock delivers.
My Moorcock marathon continues, and now we come to the first of his novels I ever read.
Since that occasion, I've re-visited Corum at least twice, which would make this the fourth time.
I have little doubt that there will be a fifth.
I simply adore this trilogy.
Here, Moorcock shows us why he's considered a supreme fantasist.
His imagination knows no bounds.
He is audacious, stylish and utterly captivating.
The otherworldly atmosphere he creates is unlike any I have encountered elsewhere, with an undertone of Hinduism, of LSD, and of quantum physics.
Quite simply breathtaking.
I love the initial Corum trilogy like I love no other novels!
They just don't write like this anymore.
It's a shame, because there was a lot of imaginative stuff crammed into these short novels - any one of which could have been expanded upon to make a longer novel.
Corum and Rhalina could have used a little more oomph, as they were little more than archetypes most of the time, but I wouldn't change Jhary-a-Conel for anything.
He quickly became my favorite character because he provided a much-needed upbeat counterpart for Corum's gloominess and the overall grimness of the story.
The ending of the third book was completely unexpected, but refreshing.
It might actually be the happiest ending I've read in a Moorcock novel so far.
This was one of my gym reads. The hero finds his people have been slaughtered by barbarians, he is soon captured and tortured. He finds himself in the service of the God of Law. With the aid of God of Law's magical items he undertakes a mission that starts with revenge. He finds love, sacrifice, and high fantasy adventure.The book had a very unexpected ending. I won't reveal it here, but I wasn't sure if I liked this ending or not. The more I thought about it, the ending is satisfying and not at all what I would have expected.
The first half of the set of stories concerned with Prince Corum Jhaelen Irsei is not my favorite of the Eternal Champion series, but it's engaging enough rainy day fare.
Corum is just plain not as interesting as some of the other champions and in fact the bright point in this series is the presence of the character Jhary-a-Conel who is (as is often true with the companions) a far more engaging character then the champion himself.
That being said starting with a character lacking the usual Eternal Champion bathos is not the worst way to get back into the myth cycle.
Unique and exciting. A true fantasy classic. The first trilogy quickly became one of my all time favorite fantasy novel. I barely closed the book. I was always excited about the next chapters, the next pages. I read it on bus, in bed, in armchair, before sleep, after lunch, every time I had the chance to move forward in the story.I guess I still cannot find another novel in this scene which is so unique and atmospheric. The imaginary of the parallel worlds, the colorful but so different planes of the sword rulers were unforgettable.
Obviously a by-the-numbers effort, but I love the concepts of chaos and order and all that. Some of the images are nothing short of brilliant even if it doesn't always move along at a brisk enough clip. I've now read this trilogy three time.s Very influential on my early life.By the way, avoid the second Corum trilogy -- it's horrible. It is entirely by-the-numbers, with none of the bigger concepts coming through.
