https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/43782.The_Mummy
She’s seriously one of the best storytellers of all time.A mummy rises, he falls in love, and they journey to Egypt where he misuses his immortal elixer.
Add in a dangerous and alluring female villain and you’ve got one of the sexiest cast of characters I’ve ever read.The book is fairly long, but Rice is always a fast read.
I’ve always found Anne Rice to be the perfect alternative to a “fluff” book because even though there’s elements of a romance novel, the plot is still the most important part of the story.
Loved this book...couldn't put it down once I started it. I really wish she would have done a series out of this story.
Flipping through it now, I can’t help but think of how my tastes and standards for books has changed over the last fifteen year…The plot is classic creature horror: the mummy of Ramses II is brought back to England, where it is accidently brought back to life by virtue of a mysterious elixir of immortality.
But it’s also fun and I do love the kitschy homage to 19th century Egyptomania.Rice apparently wrote a sequel, where Ramses and Cleopatra are reunited, but I don’t intend on reading it: I’m kind of over her emo immortals and bizarre psychosexual relationship dynamics.
Apparently, I never added this, even though I read it ages ago. Huh. Anyway, re-reading now because I got approved for The Passion of Cleopatra at Netgalley and am so excited!
OK, I'm giving it one star but I did read it all the way through.I thought this headed towards pulp, not up to the quality of her other books (and a bit more towards porn-lit).Also, I guess I can be nit picky, but Ramses claims that his cells can't die.
Awful picture, but I state it just to point out that she's trying to make a point.It seems to me, however, that Anne misses this point when Ramses and the female lead have sex.
I pictured her getting pregnant with his children for the rest of her child bearing years.OK, I guess I took it too literally.
La vida e historia de Ramsés el faraón mezclada con ficción, tintes oscuros y fantasía de una manera en que solo Anne puede hacerlo, muy creativa y super rápida de leer, un vistazo al antiguo Egipto con un esplendor y decadencia abrumadoras.
Before I rant, a little background: I’ve always enjoyed horror stories, in particular, vampire and mummy stories.
Starting in 1984 I began reading what came to be known as “The Vampire Chronicles” by Anne Rice.
I read The Mummy while waiting for the next installment of the vampire books hoping to find Rice giving mummies the same unique treatment that she’d given to vampires.
The Mummy read more like an outline of a book -- something she probably pitched to her editor and had published quickly to capitalize on the popularity of the vampire books.
I was stuck in a library waiting and had nothing to read.
I picked this up thinking 'Ancient Egypt, the undead, how can it be bad?' without looking at the author.After first few pages I checked.
Oh dear.I really do not like Anne Rice.It was in reading this book for a few hours stuck in a library and continuing out of an awful sense of self harm that I realised that Anne Rice wants to be immortal.
She doesn't care how she manages to do it, she wants to be undead.
Not in the horror awful monster way either, as she romanticizes the awesome classic villain archetype.
But in a beautiful way.
sorry couldn't do it couldn't stick with this one. Rice has written some books i love but this wasn't one of them so im letting it go back to library tomorrow unfinished
I really like when Anne Rice takes a supernatural creature and puts her own spin on it. This novel is no exception, as it was written at the height of her talents. There's something glamorous about this book and how it was written. I wish the author still wrote like this, to be honest as her more recent novels have been of much lesser quality. Does anyone else notice how hard it is to find a hardcover of this? It was harder than usual for me to track one down. What's up with that?
She captures the historical mood perfectly, the grandeur and romance and mystery, the eroticism that is somehow woven into every scene, without being trite or distracting.
Just when I think I know how she's going to resolve things, she goes in a completely different -- yet perfectly fitting and satisfying -- direction.
I'm not sure which came first, though I suspect vampires were her first love.
It then follows him and the humans who know his secret from England to Egypt, and ponders what will become of the remaining immortality elixir.
I recommend this one to anyone who loves Rice, or historical fantasy that isn't too "fantasy".

I read this about 20 years ago, when I was still a big Anne Rice fan. I liked it a lot.Recently I was approved for the Netgalley ARC of the sequel. Not re-reading this one here at the moment, as I don't have it anymore. Let's see if I still like Anne Rice 20 years later and if I do, I might come back to Ramses for a re-read.
The mummy is sent back to England to the home of the archeologist's wealthy daughter for display in her home, and the story takes off from there.
I liked the author's treatment of the mummy and the issues with immortality.
I also liked the creativity of exploring the problems with feeding an elixir of immortality to food sources such as field crops and cattle and the horrifying results.
The emotions related to and problems with immortality for the characters were well explored.
- Quizás a una mente moderna le resulta imposible comprender a una mente antigua con facilidad - concedió Elliot -. Me pregunto si también sucedería lo contrario. Si un hombre de la antigüedad que volvería a la vida en nuestro tiempo sería capaz de comprender nuestros valores.- No es tan difícil comprenderlos - repuso Ramsés-. Ustedes han apreciado a expresarse demasiado bien como para que quede algo velado o misterioso. Sus periódicos y libros lo cuentan todo. Y sin embargo, no son tan diferen
Si un hombre de la antigüedad que volvería a la vida en nuestro tiempo sería capaz de comprender nuestros valores.- No es tan difícil comprenderlos - repuso Ramsés-.
Y, como siempre, los ricos temen perder lo que poseen.
Con ESE FINAL ya quisiera que la autora volviera a escribir un libro sobre Ramsés para saber que ha pasado después de todos esos pequeños cabos sueltos que ha dejado colgados, sin resolver y que solo nuestra imaginación puede darnos el consuelo pensando en algunas hipotéticas teorías.
But I happen to love mummy fiction, be it in the form of a movie or a book.
That was what prompted me to dive into Anne Rice's "The Mummy," which, prior to "The Da Vinci Code," was the worst book I could not put down.
Perhaps anticipating the Brendan Fraser Mummy movies that came along several years later, this Mummy is not a shriveled, bandaged, mute zombie hit man, stumping around and strangling anyone that has p.o.'d some guy in a Fez; he's a reconstituted, perfectly modern-looking, very verbose heartthrob who happens to be secretly a few thousand years old.
I'd found Servant of the Bones in my university library and had enjoyed it greatly, so I thought I'd let Anne Rice entertain me again with a book about one of my greatest interests, Egypt.
She didn't.Because of the settings and locations--early 1900s London and Egypt--and the characters--a murdered British archeologist and the main character, his Edwardian daughter--I kept thinking (or hoping) I was reading an Elizabeth Peters novel.
But I every time I thought it, I was reminded that it sadly wasn't by the utter badness that was everywhere in this book.
It was basically a romance novel.
“When we are weary, we speak lovingly of dreams as if they embodied our true desires” Spoilers...duhRight now, I’m letting out a loud groan. That is all I really can do thinking about this book. Well, I could give you a very impressive eye roll as well. Or I pull out some of my hair. This was actually my first Anne Rice book ever. I always wanted to start with the Vampire Chronicles, because I really like the movie adaptation from Interview with the Vampire (it is one of the few movies I actual
Like I said before, this book is divided into two parts and therefore mostly into two plots…and a lot of weird subplots.It actually starts very interesting.
Like the story, the characters started out pretty interesting but it went downhill the more I got into the book.Our titular Mummy Ramses, or Mr. Ramsay, is a hunk, to make it short.
I can’t remember).In the end Julie briefly breaks up with Ramses because she didn’t want to be immortal and realized their relationship wasn’t good for either of them and too much had happened.
I really like how "The Mummy" started out, and I had high hopes for it. Anne Rice is so good with suspense. The characters seemed full and precise, and I thought the plot was intriguing. However, as soon as the characters disembarked (and you'll know what I'm talking about if you read the book), the story falls on its face. The characters don't follow their established personalities, and the story turns into a circus on a merry-go-round. I've read worse, but I really expected better of this book.
436 pages of absolute rubbish. I wouldn't recommend this book to my worst enemy. Positively atrocious; avoid at all cost.
Ramses, one seriously hunky immortal, not a mummy per se, he just sleeps wrapped up for long periods of time, like a thousand years or so.
An interesting character.
I positively hated this character.
Man, was she annoying.
Love interest to Ramses.
I liked Elliott.
Making him come off as some crinkly old man was kind of insulting.
She’ll fuck you and break your neck.
Make the sweetest love, then break your neck.
then break your neck.
Loved it.
It reads like a soap opera.
It is a soap opera!As the Mummy Rots and the Queen Rocks
My first read of 2018 and..
DNF 😔This paperback has been sitting on my book shelf for almost 4 years.
During that time, I picked up and tried to read this book a couple of times.
And after trying to read this book for I don't know how many times (and the result was still the same 😓), I decided to throw in the towel since I couldn't bring myself to finish it.
I could't get into this story and couldn't form connections with the characters either.
So, sadly to say, this is my first DNF read of 2018.
Did not finish in the end, and I skimmed most of the pages I managed.I know it is a dated work, but there has always been a timeless classic feel to other Anne Rice books. This is just too corny and bland. More like an early Hammer horror, only with less plot. Not for me.
She's fitting for the time period I think, but compared to the heroines I read now, she fell a little flat (there was a lot more crying involved then I remember).Cleopatra was fantastic.
I'm not sure if Rice invented the common horror flick cliche of the mummy/zombie/apparition/whatever dragging their legs and clawing their way to you but the scene evokes a very strong sense of classic creepy.
Paired with her sociopathic tendency to snap necks just to watch the life drain from her victim's eyes, this book was filled with all kinds of horror nostalgia for me.
At 4.5/5 stars, the Mummy stands out as one of Ms. Rice's best standalone novels, and is even better than some of her Vampire books (the later ones, anyway) The read is entertaining and the characters are fluid.
Not everyone might like this book, but the descriptions have the flair Ms. Rice used to have before her novels started to go sour (around Blackwood Farm/Blood Canticle) and I definitely loved reading this book.
I would give this book a perfect 5 stars if Ms. Rice had gone through with her message at the end of this book and made a sequel.
I tried to like this book... Undead, mummy, what's not to like?I got about half way through before I decided to give up. It's not that it was badly written, it just isn't my cup of tea. Maybe all the good stuff happens at the last half. But there are too many books out there I want to read to spend my time on a 'maybe'.
My favorite Anne Rice book! I have always wished she wrote a follow-up.
En este libro no hay nada de terror, puede haber alguna escena que resulte inquietante si nos pusiéramos en el lugar de los personajes, pero de ahí a dar miedo...
Sin duda los más destacables son Ramsés y (view spoiler)[Cleopatra, que está mal de la chaveta y ¡me encanta!
(hide spoiler)]El medio punto que le he quitado es por Julie.
hay algunos diálogos que son anticlimáticos y resultan cómicos.La pluma no resulta tan densa como por ejemplo puede serlo en Entrevista con el vampiro, y eso ha hecho que lo haya leído muy rápido.
Todo planteamiento del libro, su ambientación, su trama, sus personajes y su desarrollo en conjunto tiene ese estilo inconfundible a las viejas historias de "monstruos" con los que aprendí a amar el género fantástico.
No obstante, Rice nos sorprende con ésta resurrección ya que Ramsés, obtiene su inmortalidad a través de un elixir, algo totalmente imprevisto y atípico.Referente a los personajes, exquisitos.
Como conclusión, un libro trepidante, repleto de personajes con personalidad y descripciones para que nos hagamos la composición del lugar.
Así mismo, de un planteamiento y una historia fuera de lo común que hacen de éste libro único.
