https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/27528.Nicolae
They claim that this series is sexist, mainly because of the character of Hattie Durham.
And lastly, they claimed that this book is "offensive to anyone who isn't a born-again Christian." Well, I'm not.
It is someone's idea of what COULD happen, not a definite foretelling of what will happen.I enjoyed this book because it is a fascinating look at what COULD happen at the end of time.
Significant characters do pass on in this book, and as the reader I felt all of the emotions connected with the loss.
They’re looking for one another not knowing who is alive, who is dead, injured or maybe even captured by the Global Community.Tsion Ben-Judah, a Jewish rabbi and scholar was commissioned by his home country of Israel to study and analyze these prophecies.
When Ben-Judah concluded that only one person fit the hundreds of prophecies that mention Messiah, and that person was Jesus Christ of Nazareth.
Rayford asks his new girlfriend to go and aid Buck and Chloe and make sure they are safe while he is forced to charter the antichrist all over.
You can check out my reviews for the first two books here: Left Behind  Tribulation Force
This is the third novel in the Left Behind series. The novel continues to build off of where the last book left off. The book was really intense in some parts, while other parts felt like they were added into the novel to make the book longer. Overall it was a nice installment to the series. ProsIntenseCharacter development Plot development Clift hangers ConsA few slow parts
In which 25% of the remaining Non-Raptured Persons (NRPs) is killed by meteors, the Global Community bombs a few cities for peace, and Rayford Steele tries to convince Hattie not to abort the Devil's Spawn.
Good follow up! The craziness that the characters went through in this one were fast paced and had me on the edge of my seat. And I loved the way it ended.
Again, the author shows that he has very limited knowledge of science despite attempting to throw terms into the book, even allowing for dating technology back about 15 years to publication.
Women are less disparaged in this book than in the past two, but only because they are almost completely inconsequential or stereotypical.
The only women included are wives of main characters, a bitchy lesbian, a secretary, and a woman included in order to be able to preach the Christian standing on abortion.
There is one nurse and one policewoman mentioned in passing, because all nurses are women and the policewoman is incompetent.
You know for born-again Christians these are some selfish, self-centered, entitled people? Or is that redundant?Statements one doesn't hear everyday:"I had to kiss my husband goodbye in front of the Antichrist this morning.""Cabbie, the wailing wall please."
Once again, I am enthralled by the subject matter of these books but I am so confused as to why it was not executed better.
Basically, I read this book in a day.
I am pretty disappointed in mostly the execution of this novel and not so much in the story.
I'll keep reading because the story of the Rapture is captivating, I just wish someone else had this idea and did it better, because this series could have been absolutely astounding and breath taking, but it just isn't anything more than a little intriguing.
This is the last book I read in this series a year or so ago. It was ok, I guess 3.0 starsP.S that was a terrible review right there. Smh. This is why I don't wait for so long to write reviews haha
Mucho fun
Nicolae , book three in the Left Behind Series, was especially exciting to re-read. Bombs are dropping where Chloe and Buck live in Chicago. Rayford is flying Nicolae Carpathia around to New Babylon, Iraq, and other exotic places, while spying on the man he’s convinced will soon be revealed as the Antichrist. The story expands to include Ken Ritz, Mac McCullum, and Amanda White, and returns to a familiar character, Hattie Durham, to give her another shot at redemption.In Israel, biblical schola
, book three in the Left Behind Series, was especially exciting to re-read.
Buck attempts a daring rescue of Tsion, and they both become wanted men.
So the first time I read this series, I remember being so thankful that two authors, Tim LaHaye and Jerry Jenkins, had taken literally the Scripture I’ve built my life upon and crafted a story from it.
I felt that same thanks as I re-read each book.
This gives each exciting installment eternal consequence.This is one of my summer reading reviews.
The Left Behind series so far has been riveting to me and this book has been the best yet.
You watch certain characters wrestle with making the choice to turn to Christ and your heart wrenches as you hope they make that choice on time!!
Many people are overly critical of this series due to the fact that it is a fictional rendition of what is yet to come in the End Times, but I certainly am not one of those people.
This book is worth everyone's time and is the best yet in the series!
He feels that after the Rapture the people of the world, including the heroes of the story, assimilate the disappearance of all the world's children with a monstrous rapidity that displays the ways that the authors have allowed their checklist of prophecies to be fulfilled to outweigh the consequences these events would have on the psyches of real people[3].
He also criticized the book for being written in "slapdash" manner in just 28 days, which in Clark's opinion betrays the Christian (Protestant) notion of the importance of treating one's craft being a vocation for God. I enjoyed reading this series; soley based upon the premise I am an "historical fiction" lover.
I'm really enjoying these books for some reason. They're like a fluffy VC Andrews book without the incest. Granted, I find them a bit heavy-handed on the morals and 'thou shalt nots,' but what else would you expect from a novel about the rapture?
This reminds me of someone in the news today.
Another fictional account of the Christian end-times18 August 2012 I believe that I finished this book and I read about three pages of the forth book before I thought 'this is rubbish' and metaphorically threw it away (because I was reading it on a laptop at the time – I didn't end up throwing away the laptop). I guess it was simply the really poor writing skills of the author that ended up putting me off because reading even one sentence would make me cringe. Granted there are a lot of cringewo
This could be anyone of us, and because I did not fully understand the nature of this analogy, I would always worry about being this person (simply because I never seem to be able to know how to dress).
Now, post-millenialism is the idea that the millenium has passed as that we are in a new age awaiting God. However God will not return until a certain point has been reached, which involves bringing people into his kingdom.
However, as time moves on, and knowledge increases, we will continue to evolve to a point where we can evolve no further without further intervention from above, at which point Christ returns.
This installment certainly does a better job of thickening the plot of the entire series with a chess match beginning to take form between Carpathia and the Tribulation Force (and the growing number of followers).
However, differing from the first two, this book spends more time on regurgitating verses from the Bible than on actually advancing the plot.
During the times where there was an advancement in the story, it definitely does a good job of keeping you going and wanting to see what happens next.
Overall, the storyline has definitely peaked my interest, but the forced Bible verses really undercuts the flow.
I read what I did of this series because it was one of the few books my then-husband would read, and I wanted to be able to discuss books with him. I won't be reading more of these books, or re-reading any of the ones I already read, and reading them didn't help give me and my ex-husband anything interesting to talk about anyway since he didn't want to hear the ways in which my opinion on the series varied from his.
Later on in the book, both he and Rayford try to talk Hattie into keeping her child, which happens to be the spawn of our charming anti-Chris Nicolae.
They badger her relentlessly about doing the right thing, which equals not an abortion (and heavily leans toward keeping the baby), but Buck flat out thinks to himself that he wouldn't be up to raising the child of the anti-Chris.
At one point, as Rayford is pretty much trying to guilt Hattie into keeping the child, he thinks to himself "He had to remind himself that she was not a believer.
Things keep getting crazier as the tribulation progresses, but God is still there helping His people through all of it.

I liked several things about this third book in the series, although I did spend some time trying to make the little thing at the beginning ("First they were LEFT BEHIND.
Then they formed the TRIBULATION FORCE.
Now they must face NICOLAE) work for all the other book titles in the series.
It didn't work very well.
I only got as far as "Then was the SOUL HARVEST, and then APOLLYON came, and then Rayford and Chaim became ASSASSINS" before I had to abandon it.
So this book was all right, although Nicolae and Hattie's relationship was weird and all the plane flying was a little boring.
It starts right where the second book leaves off (view spoiler)[the start of World War III and the death/destruction of the United States of America as a global power (hide spoiler)].
It moves at a pretty good pace; I did not notice it having quite the jump that the end of the second novel had (view spoiler)[where Tribulation Force jumped ahead eighteen months to just before WWIII started (hide spoiler)].
However, (view spoiler)[other than it feeling like it took "too long" for Buck to find Chloe, (hide spoiler)] the slower moments did not take away too much from the overall pacing of the novel.
I realize that it doesn't happen when the books first come out but I feel like it's poor style to write the same thing over again.
Despite that, I actually think that I liked this book the best out of the first three that I've reread thus far.
That's quite appropriate for the subject matter of this book and I feel like it's starting to click together more and more.
I know there are some but it almost feels like it's a given that the characters they do focus on that aren't saved will become that way soon.
Either way this was a decent book, the best of the three I've read so far.
This book picks up where the last one left off, with Steele going to fly the new Global Community plane for Carpathia and Buck finding out about the slaughter of his friend Tsion's family.
As the bombing of major cities by the Global Community starts WWIII, Steele is equipped to listen to everything said beyond his cockpit by a secret intercom system installed for him by the maker of the plane and his good friend Earl.
Buck makes a trip overseas to save Tsion and brings him back to the church to hide in the shelter made by the late pastor.
So, a lady from my church is lending me the Left Behind series which focuses on the Rapture and the End Times - topics that aren't easy to understand when you're reading Revelation and cause much discussion.
Are there verses that support the Rapture (I've personally been a bit sceptical...Of course, God can prove a vast deal of us wrong when the time comes)Regardless of your beliefs about how our world will end, these are exciting reads in and of themselves.
Unfortunately, there's a lot of people sitting round and talking - a theme that kind of drags the books down for me.But...an interesting and thought provoking series so far.
Another awesome story in this series. I don't know if I should be irritated that each book ends with such a climatic cliffhanger that leaves me on the edge of my seat waiting for the next story to see what happens. This book also leaves me anticipating what will happen to the members of the Tribulation Force now that the Earth has been struck by the Wrath of the Lamb. Who has survived? Who didn't?I highly recommend this series. This is the third book and there are nine more to go and I am eagerly anticipating each one.
Although the book is called Nicolae, I really didn't learn much more about the anti-Christ than I had from reading the other 2 books. Pretty much the only storyline I was interested in (and that I hadn't heard in the other books)was that of Ben-Judah and his escape. I am over the cheesy conversations between Buck and Chloe, Ray and Chloe, or Ray and Amanda. Despite all this, I'll probably continue to read through the series because I really want to know what is supposedly in store for us.
Not much to say here I haven't said about the earlier volumes in this series. The literal take on the proficies of Revelation may or may not be accurate but the book itself isn't all that great. I'd say it fals somewhat into the soap-opera catagory. So whaile I may disagree with some of the theology I don't find it objectionable. It's a standard literal take on Revelation and that's fine. I just wish the actual writing was a bit better.
I think this is the one where the Antichrist proves his evilness by embracing all religions & espousing a humanist philosophy. (Sounds like someone has an agenda here.) This is the last book I read in the series. It's pretty hilarious. Also, I believe a good portion of the book is little more than an advertisement for the Land Rover. If you're an agnostic, this book will make you an atheist.
