https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/154060.A_Mathematician_s_Apology
Aesthetics, the study of what is inherently important and valuable, is for Hardy the fundamental power of mathematics, not an incidental result of correct thought.
It does not even claim any right to exist, for that would imply a purpose beyond itself.When a mathematician asserts that 1+1=2, there is no meaning beyond that assertion other than the expression of the aesthetic of mathematics.
The principle aesthetic criteria of mathematics that Hardy identifies, however, is that of ‘pattern’, more specifically patterns of ideas.
If a man is any sense a real mathematician, then it is a hundred to one that his mathematics will be far better than anything else he can do, and that he would be silly if he surrendered any decent opportunity of exercising his one talent in order to do undistinguished work in other fields.73: It is quite true that most people can do nothing well.
<-- ah, school143: When the world is mad, a mathematician may find in mathematics an incomparable anodyne.
I am convinced that you can talk about the most boring subject in the world, whatever it may be, but if you do it with love and that sparkle in your eye, people will want to listen, and ask questions, and find out more.This is how GH Hardy made mathematics for me, and why sometimes I still look him up, and come back to this book, and remember why scholarship and finding out about things make me more excited about the world than anything else.
Rather than try to summarize my feelings about Hardy’s little book, I’m going to take the lazy option here and simply repost from my blog:-In A Mathematician’s Apology G.H. Hardy estimates that only five or ten people in a hundred can do something “rather well.” Considerably fewer are really gifted.
But most days it’s a struggle even to fake a tepid enthusiasm.According to Hardy, first-rate minds care only for creation.
Surely it’s not only scarce things that can have ultimate value?Appreciation, in the sense of pure enjoyment, seems to me a better candidate than creative accomplishment for the title of “man’s true work.” It may sound Jeffersonian (“pursuit of happiness”), or Epicurean, or bourgeois of me to say so.
He justifies the pursuit of the true mathematics exactly because it is so removed from mundane being and so comes of purer intentions than much else that can be directed to harm as well as good, but it is a difficult thing to impart the joy of actually doing mathematics to the uninitiated, which is perhaps why so many reviews have picked upon the thread of personal tragedy here (partly owing to the foreword I suppose, thought Hardy's circumstances are the least of the work's significance, I thought, both on my first reading and now) instead of the 'apology' itself.
While I'm glad GH tried to be their advocate--which must've been more necessary when he wrote this than it is today--I don't understand why some hold this book/essay in such high esteem.GH mingles mathturbation with emperor's-new-clothes rhetoric.
He spends a large part of the essay/book itemizing mathematics nice qualities.GH has a real inferiority complex with respect to his love, mathematics, and his writing ability about it.
I wanted to understand his thought process, how he experiences mathematical joy, how he touches Truth, how math has shaped his person and life, etc.
The last chapter, in which he drifts in that direction, is among the book/essay's most compelling.
Research on various problems led to me to other math websites, and often G.H. Hardy's short book "A Mathematician's Apology" was mentioned in various contexts.
there is no permanent place in the world for ugly mathematics." The nature of this beauty, in all its subtlety, is what Hardy spends most of the book writing about.
As C.P. Snow writes in his long introduction, "it is very rare for a writer to realize, with the finality of truth, that he is absolutely finished." While beautiful, the book is very sad, because Hardy was deeply depressed when he wrote it.
Although he repeatedly insists that his only talent lay in his mathematical ability, it is clear that he is a seasoned wordsmith.The first mark of a good writer is their seemingly effortless ability to convey their personality through the written word, no matter the subject or format.
Hardy also insists that mathematical fame is permanent, the closest thing that a person can ever come to immortality.
These ideas, so appealing when stated by Plato or Descartes, are almost nauseating with Hardy; I shudder at the thought that he has reached some sort of immortality.How ironic, then, that Hardy will most likely be remembered by the general mass of humankind for this little essay, rather than his mathematical achievements.
In his introduction, C.P. Snow points out that Hardy's capacity for dissimulation "was always minimial." And he goes on to illustrate this with a passage in the Apology where Hardy says, "I do not remember having felt, as a boy, any passion for mathematics, and such notions as I may have had of the career of a mathematician were far from noble.
I thought of mathematics in terms of examinations and scholarships; I wanted to beat other boys, and this seemed to be the way in which I could do so most decisively." Besides revealing a lucid self-knowledge, it provides some of the tragedy to this book.
This memoir from G.H Hardy has truly changed my perception of mathematics and mathematicians.
Hardy is a remarkable man, though unusual (he likes cricket!) and with collaborations with Littlewood and Ramanujan he made astonishing breakthroughs in the mathematical field.
The one thing which struck me in this novel was Hardy's sorrow caused by old age, he seemed in mourning for the creativity and drive for mathematics that he had once held.
Mr. Hardy explains the difference between pure and applied mathematics. Math history thrown in and some stories about Bertrand Russell and others. There's also a hint of defensiveness as he tries to explain the beauty of spending a life on math that has no real world applications.
As Hardy pointed out himself, criticisms are work of second-rate mind. This book is awesome, it sheds so much light on what is going on inside mathematician's mind. I particularly like the part when he argues why mathematics is beautiful, and what constitutes a beautiful mathematical theorem.
Like Letters to a Young Poet for Mathematicians. Only depressing instead of uplifting. Loved it.
Though at some places Hardy shows almost intolerable snobbery, I am a physicist, this book reads good and provides some food for the mind.
I just read the wonderful 50+ page intro my C.P. Snow (one of my heros).
The intro is almost as long as the actual Hardy part.
Apparently Graham Greene, in a review, said that along with Henry James' notebooks, Hardy's book was the best description of what it's like to be a creative artist.
Despite much googling, I sadly cannot find a copy of the original Greene review.
I absolutely loved the intro by C.P. Snow and greatly enjoyed the play by the Nat'l Theatre in UK about Hardy and Ramanujan: A Disappearing Number.
I think I would have loved to have heard Hardy lecture.
I give five stars relative to my expectation - I was totally surprised how much I liked this book.
I was expecting some self-important manifesto with little information.
Though often sounds like he has no interaction with the world outside of mathematics, he's pretty honest.
He started off by saying that serious mathematicians do math, don't write stuff about math.
I was like "hmmm".
Then he went on: but I'm too old to be a serious mathematician, so now I'm gonna write this book about math.
It's an interesting book that's too short to not read.
Even if you're not looking to pursue an academic career, it is still an insightful read in case at some point you would like to create something original.It sheds light on the nature and characteristics of good work, and I think the principles may be extended to any field with modifications.
Wow.b. Addressed to people (men) already in the know-This is particularly baffling as he makes it a point to say several times that the book was written for laypersons (laymen), and goes to some lengths to explain some math in easy terms.
This is a book written by a Grand Master Mathematician telling the story about his Apprentice, the young genius Ramanujan, and about the wonderful creativity and the internal urge that, although rare, exist in some people on Earth making them search for the harmony and beauty of the Universe.Even if you do not know anything about Mathematics you will begin to feel the World of Ideas, although indirectly and probably as a blind man whom somebody described how wonderful the color of the blue sky is.
If it weren't that I am this particular type of sucker, and also that I had a goal of reading a certain number of books in one year, I probably wouldn't have finished it.It's not a bad book, it's just not that interesting.
The rest is probably pretty interesting to anyone with more math under their belt than I have, but it wasn't all that compelling to me.
He does admit that, but that admission doesn't do much to make the book any more interesting.Next time I'm 1/3 the way into a book and I don't think I need to finish it, I'm gonna trust that feeling.
I read this book because it was quoted in a coursera class about Genetics and Evolution.
I wanted to read this also because I often feel very guilty and apologetic about studying a basic science, and I wanted to see his point.
It sounds maybe a little bit mystic but I realised that any knowledge, even though we cannot forsee it's application clearly or at all, is information that can be useful in any other field.
I often have the feeling that scientists should get involved with humanistics more and then they would appreciate more their work outside of their own fields, plus, better decisions can be taken.
This means that he saw his world in terms of math (very complicated math), even though he realized that his world of math does not always represent "reality." In fact, in this work, he comes to think of math in terms of art, since it is made up entirely of human ideas and is open to play and interpretation.
Ultimately, Hardy arrives at the realization that, even though he loves it, math is not "real" the way we recognize it as real, and so, unless he can think of himself as some kind of twisted artist, his life's work means nothing.
Hardy after watching the movie about him and Ramanujan, which inspired me to know more of his personal life and professional work.
This book tries to give a brief insight to mathematicians life in 29 chapters such as defining the usefulness of mathematics, real and applied parts of mathematics, etc.
I was fascinated to see a mathematician's attitude towards real life applications and desires for not giving up.
Reading this book is recommended not only to mathematicians but to researchers in any other fields who would like to understand the importance of his/her work and the dominant motives behind it.
"A man who is always asking 'Is what I do worth while?' and 'Am I the right person to do it?' will always be ineffective himself and a discouragement to others." Indeed, such people are so depressing.
The philosophical aspects are very interesting, whether or not you agree wholeheartedly, and whether or not the author's personality agrees with you.
Even if you've heard all of these opinions before in some form --- as a pure mathematician probably will have --- the anecdotes, historical context and personality insights will appeal tremendously.
Despite how well known it is, and how many say it speaks for mathematics, I am unable to give this book a high rating.
I doubt the less-than-stellar 50 page introduction to a 100 page book biased me against the actual A Mathematician's Apology.
This isn't to say there aren't good reasons to read this book: it's a fast read, it's short, and it contains a period description of prewar high academia in England.
This is undeniably a beautifully written book, essentially an essay in defense of the value of pure mathematics.
It's also a poignant and moving piece of autobiography.
On the other hand I think it's bad for people to read it who don't have their own strong, fully formed ideas about math.
Hardy is of the "the only worthwhile thing is to pursue your talent" school and the "math is a young man's game" school and the "most people are mediocre" school and generally will make anyone studying math feel bad and get discouraged if they don't have their own well-developed relationship to the study.
We can probably not find a man in science like Hardy to despise war so much as to go into great length to justify uselessness of "his mathematics" for any kind of war, propaganda and human affair. But it only took a century to prove him wrong. Today his math is the biggest tool that can affect any war, state of humanity and happiness of people. His apology and the intro by C. P. Snow was a very good book to read in just one sitting.
Even if the name didn't have mathematics in it, I guess we can easily guess that this was written by a mathematician because of the generality of the content. It's not about just mathematics but any form of pure art. Let it be science, music, painting, mathematics, poetry etc. A short, sweet and beautiful insight into inner wars of an artist's mind.
he was the purest of the pure...his face was beautiful ----high check bones,thin nose,spiritual and ausfere but capable of dissolving into convulsions of internal gamin -- like amusement..........intellectual curiosity...prefessional pride...
PDF available here: https://www.math.ualberta.ca/mss/misc...
Ágætis yndislestur
