https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/22435.The_Fabric_of_the_Cosmos
Starting with a seemingly simple problem (or I would think it's simple, but it took a few hundred years and Einstein to adequately understand it, apparently (not that I could figure it out) about why the water in a bucket pushes up against the side of the bucket when you spin the bucket around really fast, Brian Green creates a narrative (I'm using this in it's normal manner, not in the science as narrative way that I use it when I want to piss people off, this book is a history of science book in quite a few ways) that shows how this bucket filled with some water paved the way for Relativity, Quantum Mechanics, Quantum Uncertainty, the Big Bang, String Theory, M-Theory, Branes and other concepts that helped move forward theoretical understandings of the whole universe.
This guy really does try to make this stuff accessible, but I’ve a feeling that without the maths it just does not make any sense on any level.My problem is exacerbated by the fact that it seems that every time there is a problem in Physics we are having trouble solving we just make up something invisible to solve it.
Anyway, it sounds like no one will ever be able to test any of this stuff – if we can’t see an electron how the hell are we ever going to see a one dimensional string?My main problem with this book was his early explanation of entropy and how this did not provide an arrow of time.
If you're into stuff like this, you can read the full review.Going Overboard: "The Fabric of the Cosmos" by Brian Greene(original review, 2004)"Within each individual [time] slice, your thoughts and memories are sufficiently rich to yield a sense that time has continuously flowed to that moment. This feeling, this sensation that time is flowing, doesn't require previous moments—previous frames—to be "sequentially illuminated."In "The Fabric of the Cosmos" by Brian GreeneI agree that this is at l
This feeling, this sensation that time is flowing, doesn't require previous moments—previous frames—to be "sequentially illuminated."﻿In "The Fabric of the Cosmos" by Brian GreeneI agree that this is at least as much philosophy as science, though mathematically based philosophy.
So while time may be a spatial dimension, if Greene (and Godel, etc.) are right, then there must be at least one other dimension of time that allows our minds to move through the different moments that all exist and experience them sequentially.﻿
It is a fantastic introductory book to the realm of contemporary physics - of course, if you are interested in more quantitative treatments of such subjects, then this is probably not the book for you - although I must say that everybody with an interest in science should really take the time to read this masterpiece.The author, being a foremost scientist directly involved in the most advanced research efforts in areas such as String Theory, does have his own preferences and biases (all honestly acknowledged by him, and also they do not impact the overall objectivity and impartiality of his book).
Let's start with the positives: Greene does an excellent job of explaining very hard-to-understand concepts in non-mathematical ways.
Reading about the bucket argument (http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bucket_a...) and the various attempts at answering it; the exciting exploration of time, the arrow of time, and its mysteries; the exhilarating explanation of entropy; the outline of general relativity, quantum mechanics and a whole host of other physical theories, and on the whole Greene's passionate way of writing makes this an extremely engaging read.
إليك بعض المعلومات الصادمة، بعضها حقائق و البعض الآخر نظريات و فرضيات و لكنها معتمدة على استنتاجات رياضية 1- أنت لست ثابت، أنت في حركة دائمة و متسارعة أيضاً2- القوى الكهرومغناطيسية هي التي تحمل جلدك و عظامك مع بعضها البعض3- نحن نعيش ضمن 11 بعداً و ليس ضمن ثلاثة أو أربعة أبعاد4- قد يكون هناك عدة أكوان أخرى مختلفة و ليس كون واحد Multiuniverse5- الزمن ليش شيء ثابت..
نعيش هنا 60 سنة مثلاً و لكننا قد نعيش 600 سنة على كوكب آخر 6- نظرياً يمكننا زيارة المستقبل و يمكننا أيضاً الرجوع للماضي و لكن لا يمكننا تغييره7- قد يكون الكون هو إسقاط لمعلومات ثنائية الأبعاد8- الفضاء ليس هو عبارة عن لا شيء ..
"Theoretically there is no absolute proof that one's awakening in the morning (the finding oneself again in the saddle of one's personality) is not really a quite unprecedented event, a perfectly original birth." Yeah, that does make a bit more sense than most of this book.
. I'm starting to wish I never listed this here because if I hadn't I could give up without feeling so bad (or anyone knowing).
It's not that he's a bad writer it's just that I'm not that smart, but I suppose we all have own unique talents, right?
. so yeah, I got that going for me at-least .
That's something, right?
Hmmm...I can now talk basics about String Theory and physics at a cocktail party. Get me into anything more than general commentary, discoveries, famous names and famous theories, and I'm completely at a loss. Green is a likable and passionate author, but for readers without a physics knowledge base, his little treatise is tough going, even with all the Simpsons references. I remember the most important concepts, but the intricacies didn't stick with me. This book is best read in segments, preferably when you're completely lucid and can take notes.
Even complicated physical processes were surmountable — even understandable — when they were put into the context of something familiar, say, traumatic experiences of young adulthood.Without analogy and metaphor, a reader can quickly suffocate in the rarified air of the hard sciences.
The task then for any science writer is to couch these concepts in colloquial terms and familiar experiences, and no one does it better than Brian Greene.
His most recent work of pop-physics, called Hyperspace, contains examples that are shamelessly unscientific at times and really underestimate the reader’s intelligence.But by no means does Greene dumb down the information in Fabric and yet, none of the underlying ideas are lost.
I think Brian is fantastically gifted to explain esoteric and cutting-edge cosmological concepts without the use of formulae and maths.
Equally, I felt a pang of regret when he expresses optimism that the LHC runs may find evidence of extra spatial dimensions soon after the upgrade to higher energies, knowing this has not happened yet, and scepticism is mounting that it ever will.Transcending what Brian was actually teaching me about the science, I also had an epiphany when I was reading the book.
Brian talks at length about the shortcomings of the Big Bang theory, and explains how the theory of inflation may answer some of its more frustrating issues, such as the flatness problem.
I understand that Inflationary Theory is not merely a tweak of Big Bang theory to enable it to fit observed facts, but a whole new way of looking at the growth of the universe that actually explains much more about the fundamental physics.I'm not claiming a thorough understanding of these subjects (and in some, like Brane Theory, I still found myself rather lost; a re-read may be in order), but I feel that The Fabric of the Cosmos has deepened my comprehension of and appreciation for the wonders of our universe.
I had never heard of Brian Greene and have typically held physics and such things at arm's length, with my other hand pinching my nose shut as if holding the world's most curious diaper: there is probably much of interest within to parse out, but noxious enough to keep me anyway.
Luckily, this book squares a lot of things and sets them to rights for me.Greene is an awesome writer.
I'll just say, I came out of the book feeling and sounding smarter.
I can rap about three-branes, the Many Worlds hypothesis and impress my friends with my knowledge of the eleven spacetime dimensions.All-in-all, satisfying, funny, and informative.
Odlična knjiga za sve laike koji se pitaju šta su to prostor i vreme. Tema je obrađena vrlo temeljno.
If mathematically challenged aliens (who had somehow acquired a spacecraft) landed on Earth and requested a single book to sum up our species' understanding of space, time, and physics, we would do best to give them The Fabric of the Cosmos.Pop sci books on physics have a nasty habit of either aiming too general and leaving the reader with only a fuzzy sense of awe or aiming too specific and leaving the reader with a few random facts and a general confusion over how scientists can get so excited about algebra and atoms.
От тези, които съм чела, с изключение на Карл Сейгън, Боб Бърман и Брайън Грийн, на останалите в различна степен им е трудно да избягат от академичния стил, сложните термини и формулите.
Точно това е начинът, по който нещо сложно, трудно разбираемо и отчасти нелогично трябва да бъде обяснено на баба ви, на кифлата от горния етаж (решила да става освен красива - и умна), на колегата и на всеки без никакви научни познания или с ограничени такива от студентските години и самообразоване с подобни книги.
За останалите, студенти и занимаващи се с наука, си има учебници и научни публикации, където е мястото на формулите, сложната терминология и академичния стил.

This is a great book that does an excellent job of explaining some of the toughest ideas in modern physics. My only criticism is that Greene can't figure out who his audience is: there's an odd mix of esoterica and the mundane. Most of the esoteric stuff is banished to the footnotes, which are well worth reading--and I suppose I should be happy that it's there at all, since most books on modern science are written with Hawking's Editor's Law in mind: with each equation, your audience shrinks by 90%.
THE FABRIC OF THE COSMOS.
Brian Greene.
****.This is another in Greene’s series of books attempting to educate the average reader in the concepts of cosmology.
Greene attempts to present the current burning questions in his field using simplistic examples drawn from our daily lives.
It turns out, however, that the items in question are not so simple.
Although designed for the non-scientific reader, this book could serve as a text for a semester’s worth on quantum science and/or cosmology.
There was a program developed and presented as a Nova episode that I was able to check out from the library.
Once again, as in "The Elegant Universe," Greene has done an exemplary job of presenting a "popular" explication of deep science (particle physics and cosmology) that is neither condescending nor watered down.
(Bertrand Russell made a hash of explaining relativity with a raft of confounding, muddying analogies.)• repetition: Greene presents an idea and its details from several different but complementary directions that both reinforce the underlying principles and keep them continually in mind.
Greene is an insider, to different degrees, in the enterprises of mathematics, physics and string theory.
You've got dark matter, dark energy, the Higgs field (prior to the way-too-recent discovery of the Higgs boson), inflationary cosmology.I'm looking forward to reading his still more recent work.
I wish I could say 'The Fabric of the Cosmos' is an easy read which makes clear a subject that only geniuses understand normally about what classic physics and quantum mechanics have to do with understanding the mysteries of cosmology, particularly the theories regarding what the universe is, how it began, what made it function the way it does and why there seems to be an arrow of Time.
Fortunately, Brian Greene leaves the math for the 'Notes' section in the back of this book while describing through analogies and simple-as-possible, and logical, well-written historical vignettes about the key physics discoveries by famous physicists which illuminate the nature of space and time.
Some of the interesting items discussed here include the notion that during the "Planck time", ie, 10^(-34) sec or so after the Big Bang, space and time had no meaning, that our 3-D universe may be only an illusion of an underlying 11-dimensional universe, and reality may be coded in a cosmic "hologram", and that our universe may be only a minor dot in an incomparably vaster "multiverse".My own objection to this book is that most of this material has been written elsewhere -- for starters, Greene's earlier book "The Elegant Universe" was an excellent introduction to string theory and its implications.
I finally finished Brian Greene's Fabric of the Cosmos and I am more confused than ever about string theory, M-theory and the nature of spacetime.I feel as though I should read the book again.
I guess at least now I am familiar enough with the concepts which confuse me to be able to sound like I know something about general relativity, quantum mechanics and string theory over beers with friends, and that's the important thing, right?Greene uses lots of pop cultural referenced examples to illustrate difficult mathematic/theoretical constructs, so familiarity with the Simpsons, X-Files, Star Trek and Star Wars may sometimes have you thinking "hey, I know what he's talking about" even when you have no clue.
Well I finished this book. Pretty sure I didn’t understand a lot of it...but that’s on me not the author. That aside I thought this was a beautifully written book. Well researched, interesting and well written. I think I learnt some things...but expect another read would be needed to absorb more of the content.
Each moment--each event or happening--exists, just as each point in space exists." So it appears that someone, God, for instance, who has extent in another dimension outside our spacetime, could presumably see all of our spacetime, past, present, and future.
But then along comes quantum theory and one view is (from page 456), "...if the passage from probabilities to definite outcomes requires something beyond the standard quantum framework--it's at least possible that free will might find a concrete realization within physical law.
Some of the above may be supplanted in the future by other theories, but for the time being it is interesting that science seems to verify some of the attributes of God as understood by Christians.
I'm not sure if I believe everything that theoretical physics proposes (but then again, I'm not one for blindly allowing myself to be pulled along by an entity I can't see), but I enjoy it nonetheless.
Greene offers some thought provoking ideas, and he even mentions at one point the author of one of my favourite theoretical physics books,Lisa Randall.
Furthermore, and this may be more a publisher's error, but the book promised discussion on black holes and the like- my favourite of all astronomical topics.
Greene and Sawyer both use the same analogy of Gone With the Wind as a way of describing looking through time, in exactly the same manner.
but i think That situation may not last for ever As we examine the cosmos ever more closelythe hologram & the illusion of time ,i read in other articles previously about the distinction between past ,present & future but this book clarify it more in a very wondrous manner ,it approximates the complicated ideas about the cosmos & pictured it in an approach very close to What we experience as reality also it explore the question :-is our universe is contracting or expanding ?After that Prof.greene came to discuss What time itself is ?
The book focused mainly on the concepts of space and time, and how they build the universe around us.
At times I did get a bit lost, though not that often, but I feel now I have a much better understanding of a lot of modern physics concepts and ideas, for example I know understand Pbranes user name!
But it's definitely a book I'd recommend to anyone who is interested in learning how the universe might work, and how in a lot of ways it does.
I know because I have a genuine interest and have read numerous books purporting to make these theories understandable.
I now have a much firmer grasp of what is meant by extra dimensions (never easy to visualize) and I was blown away by the thought that the universe probably resembles a Pringles potato chip, when I had always just assumed it must be balloon-like.
Who would have thought.I think that if I read this book two or three more times, I might actually become an educated person.
"A First step for understanding the universe."He mentions in the beginning that a refutation for the Albert Camus question why don't we all just commit suicide is because we can learn about the universe and discover our place in it while we're alive. After reading this book, you'll always have unfinished business in discovering more and more about the universe. This book is a very good intro to physics and discovering about the universe.
This is as fine (or very near) as popular physics goes. Although the book is maybe a bit too simple at times, I really enjoyed how Greene is able to present some very difficult concepts by gradually building up ideas. Instead of jumping over here and over there, he leads the reader in a very precise (well, as precise as you can get without serious mathematics) and logical manner which seems to be satisfying both to the layman and to the expert. Excellent!
