https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/10822.Three_Beloved_Classics_by_E_B_White
I know Charlotte's Web is a classic but it's a little depressing to be meant as a child's book.
This is the second time I've read it to Isabella, she doesn't remember the first, and she really enjoyed it.
Her love for animals really helped her to appreciate the story more as well.I read Stuart Little to her a couple years ago and I can't really remember the details of the story but...
it is a little strange to think of a family adopting a mouse as their relative.
They are all good books.
Stuart Little was my favorite of the three -- sometimes a mensch, sometimes a dandy, like a two-inch high Groucho Marx, this brave and competent dreamer applies his ingenuity to all manner of fixes that can arise for a mouse in a man's world.
Louis the swan is a similarly quixotic character, but his story is more conventional and sentimental.
Wilbur, however, didn't seem to do much at all other than appear "terrific" and "radiant" as suggested by his guardian angel-spider.
They're written with a delightfully adult whimsy -- only when White lists things does he cross the line from breezy charm to cloying cute.
I had this little set at a child.
Charlotte's Web, The Trumpet of the Swan and Stuart Little.
I loved reading Charlotte's Web and it was the most read book I had.
I didn't really get into The Trumpet of the Swan until I was a little bit older.I have to say that it was the best gift that my Poppa ever gave me.
I can't remember it if was Christmas, or a birthday gift.
And how I loved that little slip cover that held all those three books together as a set.
It is one of the best memories I had as a child.
The cool thing about having kids, is getting to re-read all the stories I loved as a child. I read this book to my kids over Christmas break, 2006. They LOVED it. In fact my son just asked me last night if I could re-read it to them over the summer. I said we could. This book teaches children about self-confidence, hope and friendship. Well, it teaches everyone that.
Living on the farm, Wilbur the pig and Charlotte the spider's friendship blossomed when Charlotte prevented Wilbur's death.
Wilbur was going to be slaughtered by his owner, Mr. Zuckerman, but Charlotte prevented it by making words on her web such as "some pig" and "terrific".
In the end, Charlotte passed away but her 3 daughters succeed her, none of them replacing Charlotte in Wilbur's heart.There are many themes that make up this book.
Near the end of the book, Wilber was invited to a fair for a contest of being the best pig.
I like this three classic tale book because it embodies all of the classic stories I grew up with.
I like the feel of this book and how it made me feel when I was reading it.
This book is great for teachers to use in a classroom because they can read a different story whenever they want and then go and watch a movie on it as well.
I think, as times have changed, children's expectations of illustrations in book have become much higher.
This book is certainly one I would use in a classroom to read to my students.
This book is about a girl that loves animal particular his pig and she lives with his dad.
As you read the story there is a part about her pig that her dad wanted to sell it in a festival.
She ask and ask to her dad to not sell the pig.
In this is time he was lost and want to get to the farm of the girl he had a fun experience.
Then the pig get to see the girl and he is happy other time.
Own. We've now read all of these, but it was supposed to be for The Trumpet of the Swan.We all loved it. We being the children and me. It was weird. I didn't expect it to be weird in the same way as Stuart Little and Charlotte's Web are, but I suppose I should have. I loved the book, it was a joy to read.N-boy and R-girl liked the part about Camp KooKoosKoos. M-girl liked when Louis got his trumpet. I loved the chapter at the zoo where he negotiated freedom (although I was disappointed in some of his negotiation!)
Includes three of the best loved classics in childrens literature. charlotte's web is a newberry Award-winning story of one fine swine and a spider named charlotte who changed his life forever. The Trumpet of the swan is the joyous tale of Louis a trumper swan in search of his voice. stuart Little is the story of a most unusual mouse that sets out on the adventure of a lifetime.
I read this book with my boys. They absolutely loved Charlotte's Web. Stuart Little was not quite as entertaining for them, and we have just started Trumpet of the Swan. I read the book myself before reading it to my boys, and it brought back the memories of reading about Charlotte and Stuart in elementary school. They are all fun stories about extraordinary animals doing things that they could only do in our imaginations!
Trumpet of the Swan was the one which was read from this slip-covered collection. My children--up to age 14--enjoyed it right well.It was a pleasant surprise to me, never having read this humorous tale by E. B. White. One character was over the top, but we all had many giggles from this work.Without doubt,it shall recur in the reading line-up.
I read this collection to my sons, aged 8 and 5. Of the three stories the "Trumpet of the Swan" was their favorite, followed by "Charlotte's Web" and then "Stuart Little." They liked "Stuart Little" until the end or lack thereof in their opinion. They did not like that it just stopped without any resolution to the search for Margalo.
I will not lie I never know these movies were based on books. I seen it in the trunk of my mother's car and begged her to let me read it. I enjoyed Charlotte's web and the trumpet of the swan. Stuart little story was weird to me and I didn't like the ending at all but besides that they were cute stories.
Charlotte's Web was my absolute favourite when I was a little girl. White's stories held up well rereading as an adult. They felt just as magical as they did when I was 8 years old, but I was able to pick up new insights and wisdom that was over my head as a child.  “It is not often that someone comes along who is a true friend and a good writer.”
I like this book so much. Fern`s heart is so kind. If I was fern I will just uconcern. But fern saved 1 being. I like the character`s heart. Aso it was a good idea (Charlotte the spider make some words out of the web). That makes reader fun and amazing. And farn animals trouble was great. Wilbur escaping...
I like this book so much. Fern`s heart is so kind. If I was fern I will just uconcern. But fern saved 1 being. I like the character`s heart. Aso it was a good idea (Charlotte the spider make some words out of the web). That makes reader fun and amazing. And farn animals trouble was great. Wilbur escaping...
I read this book, not this edition, and loved it. Charlotte was my favorite character, and what sparked my interest in entomology. It was my favorite book as a child. I also liked Stuart Little. I don't recall reading The Trumpet of the Swan. I may have, but will have to read or read it again to find out.
This was one of my most adored books of my childhood along with Charlotte's Web and Stuart Little. For some reason nobody ever saw the screen adaptation a few years ago (I heard it wasn't too good anyway), but it is a shame that more children are not being exposed to this touching, beautiful story.
Charlotte's Web and The Trumpet of the Swan were very good. I didn't care for Stuart Little as much. It lacked cohesiveness, something that the movie did a much better job of. This is one of those rare books where I think I would say the movie was actually better.
We have taken sides:my favorite is Trumpet of the Swan,Dave's is Stuart Little, Caoimhe's is Charlotte, ever Charlotte. update: summer is a hot and distracting time to commit to books without pictures. We shall return, in the long long winter.
contrary to popular opinion, I feel that The Trumpet of the Swan was far and away the best of the three books. Stuart Little and Charlotte's Web were good books, but that one was great. It's too bad it doesn't get more recognition
I read this collection of 2 great stories to my 5 year old son. No pictures, just your imagination. Very visual stories. Trumpter of the Swan is a must read for everyone. It is a love story, a story of childhood and family. Absolutely terrific!
I will be forever grateful to E.B. White for these stories. It's a tie between Swan and Charlotte, but for very different reasons. Stuart, on the other hand, I could take or leave (but don't tell my niece I said so).
I love this! I always wanted a nice copy of Charlotte's Web for my kids and was thrilled when I found this collection of E.B. White. This one has definately been read a lot!
this book is my favorite book and its talks about true friendship and what can we do for our best friend and when ever i read this book i feel like crying i love this book and i think that you will also love it.
They are lovely stories about friendship, love and the courage to live one's own life. E.B.White's works have clear expression and smart choice of words. He posseses talent to make his characters as well as his child readers's worlds better and brighter.
it was a good book but a sad one i read it in like third grade and i cant wait to read it again because all the memories are going to be great and i hope that one day i will be able to read it to my kids lol
Charrlottes web was slow, but good through. stuart little was very hard to get through, and I ended up quitting, but the trumpet of the swan was beautiful, and i read it multiple times
must-read for everyone everywhere!
It was pretty good, and I thought it was amazing how Charlotte made the webs to save Wilbur from being butchered.
I still have this set on my shelf in the box. What good memories and what great books!
