https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/477052.Bridgman_s_Complete_Guide_to_Drawing_From_Life
This book is a must for any aspiring comics artist. It's kicking my ass but I'm learning a hell of a lot about the human anatomy or the flesh machine as I like to call it.I'm doing what all professionals advise: draw everything in this book!
(More pictures at parkablogs.com)There are a couple of George Bridgman anatomy books if you look around. If you just want one Bridgman anatomy book, Bridgman's Complete Guide to Drawing from Life is the book for you. It essentially collects most of the illustrations and commentary from his other books.This edition is published by Sterling and it's much larger than the Dover editions. It's also thicker at 352 pages. Books included here are: * Bridgman's Life Drawing * Constructive Anatomy * The
If you just want one Bridgman anatomy book, Bridgman's Complete Guide to Drawing from Life is the book for you.
The commentary is great only if you already understand your anatomy and know your muscles well.
This is because most of the illustrations don't have labels so it's not easy to figure out which part he's referring to, unless you already know generally where those muscles are.
The drawings are a little sketchy and sometimes hard to make out different muscle groups.The main use of this book is probably to help artists visualise the weight, forms of construction and mass of the figures.
My teacher recommended copying every picture in this book. Since I'll probably only be able to complete 3 or 4 drawings a week and there are thousands - I guess I'll be always reading it.
However, as you read his information and try to understand what hes's showing, you start to build an appreciation for his work.In his "Complete Guide to Drawing from Life", Bridgman takes the human figure step by step explaining the function and shape of every part of the human body.I recommend this book to anyone wanting to understand figure drawing.
There is a lot of content in this book.Bridgman dedicated chapters on all the main parts of the body and explains, in detail, the framework behind it.It's good for an absolute beginner to just copy Bridgman's drawings as you'd be training your eye-to-hand coordination on something that is foundational but I'd also recommend that you read every bit of text on the pages.
Although I have several of the books included within this collection, I was hoping that the additional books would provide further insight into Bridgman's methodology. But, alas it was more of the same. I just don't seem to "get" Bridgman, the same way others do. Don't get me wrong... Bridgman does include some interesting material, and for some people, that information may be beneficial, but I believe that there are far better books currently available.
An essential study for all artists looking to draw people.
This is my all-time favorite book on life drawing.
It was the first book I read about figure drawing.
Previous to finding this book I had never gave any thought to what goes underneath the skin or proportion, or that these things really even existed.
I just drew and if it seemed okay looking, then I was satisfied.
After this book, I was unsatisfied with what I'd been doing.
I began PAYING ATTENTION and applying that to my work.
And it showed, when I compare the work I did before and the work I did after discovering this book, it showed a good deal of improvement.I would recommend any artist to have this book on their shelves.
Best book for any drawing student!
A very helpful look at the structure and anatomy of the person. Quite a bit farther along than my skill is at, but this would be a great shelf reference.
http://uuuinfinity.blogspot.com/2011/...
I could definitely see this as being a great resource for artists, but I found the poor print quality made it hard to focus.
This is probably the art book I use the most. It's not like I have worked through it from front to back. But if I feel like my drawing is looking a little ragged or if I can't find the energy to come up with an art project I can just pull this out and copy some anatomy illustrations. Gives the brain a little workout and reminds you of how all those bones and muscles are put together.
مخلصتهوش كله لاني مش عارفه اتفرغ للرسم لكن هرجع له تاني واعيده من الأول أن شاء الله لما الظروف تسمح.
Classic drawing examples to learn to draw the human body. Difficult but a great help to my drawing efforts.
There's not much more to be added really. In the field of artistic anatomy Bridgman's book(s) on the subject is a classic.
Playfully written, with selected drink histories and recipes throughout
A source so highly recommended. It is very complete and maybe something better done over time than powered through.
Think of this as all the Bridgman books compiled into one (and then start thinking of everyone naked and try to sketch them)!
Great to have all texts into one.
http://www.goodreads.com/assets/close...
