https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/359954.The_Theatre_of_the_Absurd
I first stumbled on this book during my first semester - we had to write a term paper on any topic we wanted to - and I chose to write about Beckett's Waiting for Godot, which I had read back then for the first time.
After a short presentation and term paper (I wrote about "Crime and Punishment in Kafka's The Trial") we have to write a 3000-word coursework paper encompassing all the authors we've read in class - Beckett, Ionesco, Camus, Kafka, Albee, Pinter.
After these asides why I have read Esslin's The Theatre of the Absurd, this time completely, I must assert that this text is one of the best about Absurdism.

An important guide on the Absurdist drama and theatre! A must as reference for whatever issue related to Absurdism! Interesting and Simple and Rich in its style! It's Martin Esslin after all..and I do love the guy in fact! :D
The definitive book on Absurdist Theatre history. I read and studied this book in college and recently purchased the book on vacation at Calico Cat Bookstore in Ventura, CA. Inspired to me pull out my favorite Absurdist authors (Beckett, Ionesca, Albee, Camus, Pinter, Vonnegut, and yes Trey Parker and Matt Stone) and dive into a modern study. "...the Theatre of the Absurd does not provoke tears of despair but the laughter of liberation."MARTIN ESSLIN
From the bits and pieces of this book that I have delved into, Esslin is able to talk about lit/drama theory with as little B.S. as I have ever encountered in anyone. Nice.
For instance, Esslin talks--somewhat oddly--about how language language fails to get at "reality"--this is in the section on "The Significance of the Absurd"--in things like political speech and advertising, for instance.
But for someone reading this book from the postmodern position of 2013, Esslin's notion that "reality" could somehow be conveyed seems naive at best, reactionary at worst (in the sense that Orwell's "Politics and the English Language" can be read as reactionary).
کتاب او هنوز هم پس از پنجاه سال، یکی از منابع اصلی در زمینه ی این مکتب تیاتری ست که آرتور آدامو از پیشگامان آن است.
اگرچه برخی آثار نمایش نامه نویسانی نظیر "پیرآندلو" و "دورنمات" را هم به این مکتب نسبت می دهند، ولی "هارولد پینتر" انگلیسی، "فرناندو آرابال" اسپانیایی، "ادوارد آلبی" آمریکایی، "اسلاومیر مروژک" لهستانی و...
از دنباله روان این مکتب نمایشی قلمداد هستند که پس از جنگ دوم جهانی در اروپا و سپس در جهان شهرت یافت.
Anyone remotely interested in the writing of Beckett, Sartre, Camus, Genet, Pinter, Ionesco, Albee or the development of post WWII theatre should read this text.
Used it as a textbook as a student and as a teacher. The more background information you have, the easier this is to digest. My students got lost in the "name-dropping" in certain chapters.
Cheat code to reading The Theatre of the Absurd: read the chapter 'The Significance of the Absurd' before reading the rest of the book. This book is a timeless analysis of one of the major movements in modern theatre history, a must read for any theatre practitioner who are intent in seriously questioning their own craft and philosophy.
Εξαιρετικό βιβλίο που καθόρισε σε μεγάλο βαθμό την αντίληψη μας για το σύγχρονο θέατρο. Απαραίτητο ανάγνωσμα για όσους ενδιαφέρονται για το θέατρο, τη λογοτεχνία γενικότερο αλλά ακόμα και τη φιλοσοφία.
This book got me into university!
Much credit is given to Martin Esslin for creating the term "theatre of the absurd," but his prime contribution really amounts to lumping together disparate playwrights who don't really fit into traditional mid-century dramatic categories.
It doesn't take a very close read to see that these playwrights don't necessarily belong together, either.
Esslin wisely attributes the styles of these writers to their recognition that not only can the center not hold after two world wars and the Holocaust but also that there was more than likely never a center in the first place.
There's not much need, though, for reading it straight-through, even for a theatre scholar.
Great book insight is tough to read, but the some of the avant-garde artists, writers have dreadful life tales, others seem to do well in this type of lifestyle and theater which is open to various types of explanations. I have certain favorite writers and producers of avant-garde theater. Alexandr Blok, Capek brothers who produced a variety of genre that fits into different theater projections, Eugene Ionesco,later
Ritrovo questo libro che l'algoritmo del sistema mi segnala per affinità di letture.
Devo averlo da qualche parte ma non l'ho incontrato da parecchio tempo.
Ricordo di averlo studiato molti anni fa quando a Londra, in una Summer School, ebbi modo di seguire un corso sul teatro dell'assurdo.
Fu in quella occasione che conobbi Tom Stoppard e Harold Pinter, non proprio di persona, intendo, ma in maniera letteraria.
Un libro molto interessante e utile.
In quegli anni la parola "assurdo" era molto di moda.
Continua ad esserlo ancora oggi anche se mi pare di poter dire che l'assurdita' sia diventata ormai una "normalità...
A great overall history and sort of a shopping list of 'who's great' in the field of Absurd theater. The one-stop place to check out what was hitting Europe in the fifties and early Sixties on the avant-garde stages of various cities. This book has been in and out of print ever since it was published (mid-60's?). Get it, and keep it by the bedside.
This book is an unavoidable guide to the Absurdist drama. It is an interesting book written in simple language. It contains studies on some of my favorite Absurdist authors; such as, Camus, Beckett, Ionesco, Albee, Pinter, and Stoppard.
good
One of the best analyses of the Theatre of the Absurd.
The best intro to this topic I've ever read!!
Good for the beginner to study Theater of The Absurd
This book is a great introductory of The Absurd Theatre. I have learnt a lot of issues about this literary movement from this book.
More informative than the Yellow Pages.
I've got an old Pelican edition of this; it's excellent.
I've read about half of this...need to finish.
