https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/275815.A_Dictionary_of_Modern_English_Usage
the first edition of this was published in 1926.
the entries are like little essays, pithy and hilarious, and soooooo old school.the first ed is great, but suffers a bit as a tool for writing today, so after much humming and hawing, i bought the SECOND edition.
the 2nd ed was published in 1965, revised by a guy named gowers.
WARNING: there is now a third (or "NEW") edition out.
get the first edition if you want a treasure.
get the 2nd ed if you want a wonderful tool.
Here is the part about French words: Display of superior knowledge is as great a vulgarity as display of superior wealth -- greater indeed, inasmuch as knowledge should tend more definitely than wealth towards discretion and good manners.
That is the guiding principle alike in the using and in the pronouncing of French words in English writing and talk.
To use French words that your reader or hearer does not understand, to pronounce them as if you were one of the select few to whom French is second nature when he is not one of those few (and it is ten thousand to one that neither you nor he will be), is inconsiderate and rude.
4.0 stars. This is on the short list of the best reference books around. It is not accurate to say that I have "read" this entire book but I have been using it fairly extensively since I acquired it in 1991 as part of an 8 volume leather bound set from Easton Press called the "Complete Oxford Reference Set." I have found it to be an excellent reference tool that is both easy to use and comprehensive.
Fowler's "Modern English Usage" is one of those books that really has no business existing: a reference guide that's fun to read.
"foreword"), the book's unique abbreviations take some getting used to, and the written language has changed quite a bit since "Modern English Usage" was first published, this book is more of an enjoyable read than a go-to writing guide.
Perhaps the modern revisions (which I'm unfamiliar with -- I was lucky enough to find an edition from the '20s) are more functional, but they couldn't possibly be any more fun.
To read through 725 pages of dictionary style treatment on usage generally would require that level of appreciation.
But as a general guide for those not so enthused with all this detail, Fowler seems dated (recent, not modern, English), and overly obsessive and obscure.
Fowler is truly the most english of englishmen. This is a righteously indignant, uptight, catty look at how language should and shouldn't be used. While the second edition was mildly updated in 1965 by Sir Ernest Gowers, it remains in essence a turn of the century work. Just plain fun to read.
Much misplaced ingenuity in finding forms of apology is shown by writers with a sense of their own superiority who wish to safeguard their dignity and yet be vivacious, to combine comfort with elegance, to touch pitch and not be defiled.
a gallon was hardly a commercial proposition.[...]And just when you thought he was over:The crowning outrage on this longsuffering word is its use as a verb in the sense of make amatory advances.
Strunk and White? Never 'eard of 'em. This is my Old Testament and The King's English is my New.
Although, I warn you: quirk and wit have this charismatic presence that often wins out over straight-laced teachings.Two quotes from Sir Ernest’s Preface to the Revise Edition set the tone for the Dictionary.The first quote conveys the intention of the entries and exemplifies (wittingly?) the linguistic complexities to come.There are some passages that only yield [the desired sense] after what the reader may think an excessive amount of scrutiny—passages demanding hardly less concentration than one of the more obscure sections of a Finance Act, and for the same reason: the determination of the writer to make sure that, when the reader eventually gropes his way to a meaning, it shall be, beyond all possible doubt, the meaning intended by the writer.Once you've parsed that, reading Fowler’s is all downhill.
Because the book was written in the 'glory days' of the early 20th century, Fowler takes time to explain his stance, without resorting to dumbing down the information.On the other hand, as other commentators have noted, one of the joys of the English language is its evolution.
Beyond this, Fowler seems to be confused about the distinction between formal and informal language use.
Isn't one of the joys of being proficient in your language, that you can stretch the boundaries of meaning and definition - both in a parodic, conversational manner, and in a serious way?
I love this book whole-heartedly.I won't pretend that with this one work you can leap from ignorance to expert knowledge, but if you already have a fair grasp of good usage, and are willing to have to look up the occasional technical term, this is an invaluable guide to the points you sometimes doubt, or know from practice but have never entirely understood.The age of this edition is no hindrance in this.
In a way that seems uncommon in newer technical works the personality of the expert author shines through.
He is passionate and knowledgeable and he wants to share, and to educate, and above all to help.
The 1926 edition was riveting, the sort of prose that seduces your snarky mind and infects your dreams. Logical, romantic, hilarious: the firmest virtues. This thick modern update is a bag of wind, a pail of Sominex. Consult it if you need to, but don't say I didn't warn you if the resulting narcolepsy puts you off your game.
A dangerous book to consult. Many, many times I have picked it up to check something specific, only to find out, an instant later, that 30 minutes have passed, and I am still reading. James Patterson should write such riveting prose.
a wonderful, funny, knowledgeable, opinionated book, for those who love words and language. But beware of the ebook version. It seems to be a poor scan of the text, which no one ever bothered to proofread.
A faithful place of refuge when in pedantic mode both as a corrective and a comfort.
the latest edition, while more accurate, lacks some of the curmudgeonly editorializing that earlier editions had
I think this book is the most amazing book in the entire world!!! IF YOU DON'T READ THIS, LIFE'S NOT WORTH LIVING.
It is therefore not very profitable to dogmatize here on the subject; an essay would establish not what pedantry is, but only the place in the scale occupied by the author…”The Oxford World’s Classic reprint (dirt cheap at £9.99 or US$17.95; I got it at half price during Oxford University Press’s annual holiday sale) features a fascimile of the entire book, plus the introduction by Crystal and an appendix of his notes on the entries, which are hit and miss: sometimes he notes how the language has since changed and sometimes he only wants to point a finger and call Fowler’s opinion strange or ridiculous.
I have had this 1986 edition of Fowler's Modern English Usage on my bookshelf for over thirty years, and it really is a key text for any writer, as I was reminded this weekend in conversation with Frank Moorhouse at the Sydney Writers Festival - his wonderful essay 'Is Writing a Way of Life?' in the latest Meanjin mentions that as a young journalist, he read a page of Fowler's a day.
I'm not sure I ever tackled it in quite the same disciplined manner, but I definitely dog-eared its pages.
Setting the date of 'read' to today, but that's more like 'so many, many days'.
I got this for Christmas, and I love it. It's a great reference book of course, but I love the dry humour when he advises against certain usage. For example where people pronounce Chorizo as 'choritso', as if it's an Italian word, he says: "If you wish to make an impression ... it is wise to make sure you choose the right language."
To say one has read this book is not really the way to describe experiences with it. "Used" this book is more like it.If you want to use the word correctly, as in Standard Written English or whatever they call it in the UK, then this dictionary is worth having around.
Way too many "language arts" teachers (thoughtlessly/ridiculously) demand that their students eschew the first peron in favor ot "false first-person ones" in their essays and compositions.
As a high school teacher who loathes the "false first-person one," when I read a "formal paper" sprouting such nonsense as "One ate one's dinner" instead of/in place of "I ate my dinner," I give the author a very low diction score on the modified 6+1 rubric we use in the department, and, like Fowler, hope.
Anyway, if you like this sort of stuff, Fowler's A Dictionary of Modern English Usage gives you a lot of it.
Fowler's general approach to English usage was to encourage a direct, vigorous writing style, and to oppose all artificiality - firmly advising against unnecessary, convoluted sentence construction, foreign words and phrases, and archaisms.
He opposed all pedantry, and notably ridiculed artificial grammatical rules without warrant in natural English usage - such as bans on split infinitives and ending a sentence with a preposition, rules on the placement of the word only, and distinctions between which and that."Fowler's guide underscores the irony of the modern age of communication and technology.
It contains a wealth of information about how to use English properly, and why.
Many subtle aspects are explained in a way that naturally sets this work apart from others.
The fact that it has been around for so long stands testimony to its value as a unique language resource.This is not just another dictionary or thesaurus: it is about more than the mechanics of language.
You can delve into this book at random and be sure to hit gold every time; it’s difficult to emerge without having learnt something significant.If you have an idle moment or don’t know what to read, pick up this book.
A stylistic dictionary that is a work of literature itself. The advice is sound, conduces to elegant writing, and is dispensed with a light hand. It is also full of surprises: we learn, for example, that many 'American' spellings — 'gray’ is one example — are actually older than their current British equivalents.Do not bother with any of the modern versions, which have been bowdlerized, politically corrected and eviscerated. The last edition that was any good was published in 1926.
It's pretty impractical to try to use this the way you would Chicago or one of the other style guides, but it's a lot of fun to read. Just open it anywhere. I always learn something new about how the language works. (I'm talking around the first edition; I haven't looked at the revisions, so I don't know about those.)
A must-read (but not an easy read) reference source for anyone really serious about the rules that govern the construction of modern American English composition. Although no one has the last word in matters involving grammar and word useage, this tome comes close than any other written on the subject.
Avoid the third edition at all costs. The first is great, but extremely dated. The second, this one is widely considered the best. It came recommended by several advisers in college at different universities. I know own two copies, one for my office at home and another for my office on campus (I'm currently in graduate school).
From time to time I will read a random selection from this book, and will have two distinct reactions. The first is my amazement at the complexity of the English language. The second reaction is to imagine Fowler, in the voice of Alan Rickman, sneering at my grammatical ineptitude.
Because I love languages and I love learning, I found this book very comprehensive and useful. I like reading it out of fun. I love to browse through its pages and simply know more about English.
