https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/19161901-now-and-on-earth
It felt kind of like reading a blog/diary full of the author's frustrations.There were tons of things I could relate to in this book, making it perfect reading for right now when I, too, am feeling a little like I just can't get a break, the world is trying to sabotage me, and the kind of work I want to do and the way I need to do it is just out of reach and nobody really fucking gets it.
My favorite chapter was the one with the "but I'm NOT Jack London!" scene.I personally loved this book five stars worth, but it was kind of scatty with patches of brilliance (not surprised to read this was his first novel) so I'm going to read more of him and no doubt give that stuff five stars.
Jim Thompson's first novel is, basically, a literary novel written as it if were a pulp novel, sort of a "what if Faulkner wrote clear concise sentences?" kind of thing (at one point the book actually cites a story by Robert Heinlein as one of the best pieces of writing, technically speaking, the narrator has ever seen, a remarkable thing to find in a 1940s novel with literary pretensions).
Had Thompson succeeded in this, of course, we would lack some of the finest pulp novels ever written, but it is rather sad to see him so clearly present that outcome as a squandering of a writer's gift.
contains an introduction by stephen king with a great quote about jim thompson:"the literature of a healthy society needs proctologists as much as brain surgeons"this wasn't thompson's usual noir, but rather a semi-autobiographical novel aboutold school family, i.e. extended, all living in the same house, often drinking,sometimes fighting (oddly enough, usually when NOT drinking), any barely gettingby on one salary from a horrible job, but with a deep sense of responsibilitydespite many setbacks. i.e. "heartwarming" in parts. but ultimately there wasn'tmuch of a story here, just a slice of life in a different time.
Now and on Earth is a very unique book and I loved reading it. It follows the life of a man living through the horror of WWII and it captures the emotion and atmosphere of the era very well.
A different kind of novel from a different kind of writer. I love Jim Thompson.
La escisión de la identidadAprovechando que acabo de terminar la biografía del escritor norteamericano, una joya de la que tendréis noticias en este blog en no mucho tiempo; se me ocurrió la posibilidad de hacer un pequeño monográfico con las obras que me quedaban por leer del escritor; ha valido mucho la pena, sobre todo porque gracias al análisis de la biografía, es indudable que ayudan a disfrutarlas mucho más.La primera de ellas ha sido la última que ha sacado RBA en su serie negra, “Libertad Condicional”, obra encuadrada históricamente tras el que fue su primer gran éxito, esa obra maestra que es “El asesino dentro de mí”, esta influencia y la atracción del cine serán decisivas en el resultado final.Partiendo de una buena idea, se nos presenta un presidio, Sandstone, donde el convicto Pat Cosgrove malvive, pero que, sin embargo, verá la posibilidad de salir gracias a la ayuda aparentemente desinteresada de Doc Luther, obteniendo la libertad condicional para trabajar con él, librándolo de un verdadero infierno:“Luther creía estar acostumbrado a las aberraciones.
This was Thompson's first novel but it reads more like a thinly-veiled memoir and a far better one than Bad Boy, which was written a decade later.
I think it probably helps to read the bulk of Thompson's work before this first, as I did, because this certainly isn't representative of his style as a whole.
What we have here is a slice-of-life narrative without much of a plot or shape that nevertheless provides fascinating detail about working in a production plant during wartime San Diego.
As a novel this is hardly a great success, but it is certainly of interest to Thompson's fans and/or those looking for period detail.
Have read a few other novels by Thompson and this one is different from them all. This is not a crime novel at all. More of Thompson channeling Grapes of Wrath. All of the characters are a bit pathetic, just like real people. It's well written except for the laggy parts where our protagonist goes into detail about his mind-numbing job. I know this is all practically autobiographic; makes you wonder what actually happened or where the reality and the story diverge. Makes me look forward more to reading more of the crime novels.
Me gusta mucho la capacidad del autor de usar muchas palabras para contar pocas cosas y que pese a ello te enganche y te embajone tanto.Más allá del estilo, la historia no me ha aportado nada especial, quizá por ese tono autobiográfico y ese rollo de escritor escribiendo sobre problemas de escritores que me cansa un poco.Seguro que otras de sus novelas me gustarán más.
A gritty old noir story that will chill and mesmerize. I love Raymond Chandler, Dashiell Hammet and all, but this guy can hang with the best.
Just never could get into this book. Maybe it was the season or other time-pressures, but I couldn't find any interest in the story line. Maybe another time?
I started reading that book which I founded engrossing but decided to put it aside until I read ALL of Thompson’s published works so I wouldn’t “spoil” the experience by having all the plots revealed in the critical biography.
Not even if I wrote a book…” After reading that book, I think Thompson has succeeded in showing the dark side of domestic life in 1940s wartime America and the desperation it generated in a flawed, but artistic personality.
Told purely from the harried and psychologically damaged mind of Jimmy Dillon, who struggles mightily to establish himself a writer in newly entered California.
Ultimately he is accused of communist leanings, must explain connections to the mob and his childhood as an underaged bellhop delivering prohibition era illegal liquor.Three stars may not be enough, as had some fine writing, but I found the narrators voice unsettling.
I wince for them." The writers dilemma is told brilliantly, however, as Jimmie reaches his ultimate frustration with his resident mother and sisters who expect him to churn out great writing on demand.

Er kann sich und seine Familie in den 40er Jahren des vergangenen Jahrhunderts gerade so mit seinem ungeliebten Job in einer Flugzeugherstellungsfabrik über Wasser halten, kämpft mit seiner Alkoholsucht und deren Folgen und hat als Schreiberling mit einer absoluten Schreibblockade und einem Haus voller Irrer genug zu tun.
Ein Teufelskreislauf, aus dem es scheinbar kein Entrinnen gibt.In autobiographischer Weise geschrieben, denn der Autor hat diese Zeiten selbst durchlebt, erzählt Jim Thompson von einem Mann und seinem Leben, das alles andere als normal verläuft.
Dilly schwebt zwischen der Liebe zu seiner Familie und dem Wunsch, das alles hinter sich zu lassen.“Jetzt und auf Erden” erzählt die Geschichte eines Mannes, der seinen Platz sucht und nicht findet.

Going through old Jim Thompson books, hopefully in order of publication.
One word: DARK.
Wait - one more word: DEPRESSING.
Ok, given those are pretty much "givens" for him, "Now and on Earty" is actually a pretty interesting book, especially taken as a period piece.
A quasi-personal introspection of a time in his own life, this is set in San Diego in the early 1940's/WWII, and a graphic snapshot of a hard life, hard living and simply hard times.
Admittedly, I read it in spurts, with more light reading (or at least less depressing novels) interspersed.
But no regrets, and looking forward to delving into the next Thompson book, right after I down some prophylactic Prozac.
Stephen King recommended author and introduction.
In the introduction to Now and on Earth, Stephen King says he most admires Thompson's work because "The guy was over the top.
The guy was absolutely over the top.
There are three brave lets inherent in the forgoing: he let himself see everything, he let himself write it down, then he let himself publish it."“He was crazy,” Stephen King, a long-time admirer of Thompson, says.
“He went running into the American subconscious with a blowtorch in one hand and a pistol in the other, screaming his goddamn head off.
Jim Thompson lived a hard life... This is his first full novel, and is pretty much his life with the serial numbers filed off. A good read so far, but a lot different than his standard fare. The Stephen King forward is definitely out of place, seems to be a generic praise piece for Thompson and had nothing to do with the book itself. This one is less hard assed Thompson, and more personal than his later work. It's just a good read about a guy with little direction trying to raise a family that's nine ways from fucked up.
Plodding, structurally inept debut novel by Jim Thompson. He gives expository flashbacks right up until the end of the narrative, as if sooner or later the plot will finally get going. But it never does. I suspect that part of Thompson's problem may have been the autobiographical nature of the work--he seems not to have enough distance from his material to figure out anything interesting to do with it. But he would solve this problem in later books.
Wow, I love Jim Thompson- Once and On Earth is as fresh today as it must have when written in 1942. A down-on-the-luck factory worker in a WWII arms factory watches as his family implodes, with major contributions from him of course. Very dark, but can it possibly have a happy ending? Read. The really good news- Thompson wrote 13 more books I have not yet found in our public library. The Hunt Is On!
Thompson's stand-in grouses about his soul-deadening factory job, the family he can't stand to be around, and his inability to write under these conditions.As usual in these narratives, he's his own worst enemy -- it sounds like people generally like him, and he seems to get a better deal than just about anyone around him.
Thompson has long been one of my favorites, but this was my first look at his debut novel. It is a tense, uncomfortable story of a struggling writer, appropriately enough -- a guy who started a family before he started his career and seems to sometimes regret it. Incredibly fluid, vivid writing taps deep wells of complicated emotion.
This book was surprisingly interesting for being such a small, and simple little story, so close to Thompson's actual life. But I was truly able to relate to so much in this book, which was interesting, being that it was published in 1942. Different from his popular work, this one is much more personal, and grounded in a real world that I could see Mr. Thompson living through.
I liked this at first and got 3/4 through it... but then reached a point of really disliking all of the characters, and I haven't wanted to pick it up again. Boooo, am I a wimpy person who needs to like the characters in a story? How disappointing, but maybe true at this point. I paid my literary dues in college. ;)
interesting first novel by thompson. unlike many of the characters in thompson's subsequent work, the protagonist is not trying to conceal any heinous, pathological behavior. maybe i can only say that because the red scare seems so long ago. still, the atmosphere is palpably oppressive, and i found myself on edge.
Now And On Earth is Jim Thompson's very first novel and those expecting the usual nightmare noir from him won't find it here. This is more like a John Fante novel or a Bukowski Factotum/Ham On Rye-styled novel. In fact, Now And On Earth would make a good companion piece to Factotum, wine guzzling and all.
Entertaining and thoughtful, though his writing is as sharp and fine-tuned as it was later. Had some political underpinnings I appreciated, which he gave up later, and was definitely far removed from his more sexual themes later as well. Still messed up though, don't get me wrong!
Jim Thompson's 'Now and on Earth' was a revelation. This first novel is not a smidge like the noir tales of scheming and grifting he's known for but I recognized Jim's style and voice from page one. By page two I was hooked. Around page 10 I wondered why I'd never come across this book before.
3.5 stars.Very reminiscent of Bukowski and early Fante. The novel gets a little slow when describing working in the aircraft factory, but generally right up my alley.
