https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/25893582-tell-me-three-things
I was very excited to read this book.
I can think of dozens of novels dealing with similar themes that are funnier and a thousand times more gripping.It started out just fine.
And 16-year-olds?This book is trying too hard.
I wasn’t bored per se, but I felt like reading this book wouldn’t show me anything new.So I stopped.
That alone should justify my prematurely closing this book.If you're looking for funny, unputdownable, original, epistolarish while incorporating the theme of death—though less intensely, I wholeheartedly recommend to you My Most Excellent Year.
I've never given a contemporary book 5 stars before (as far as I can remember... Is John green contemporary?!?! If so sorry I lied).  "Perfect days are for people with small, realizable dreams. or maybe for all of us, they just happen in retrospect; they're only now perfect because they contain something irrevocably and irretrievably lost."  I'm finding this review hard to write... That typically happens when I'm so angry at a book that I can't even see straight. This isn't the problem I'm facin
I'm going to do this review a little different and stick with the common theme that TMTT and I'm going to tell you the three things that made me love this book.
When you read the synopsis of the book you figure out right away that there is basically a "who done it" style plot.
I was so interested in the story and going through things with Jessie that I didn't want to find out until the last possible second.
Second guessing made reading this book so much fun.
this book was everything i could have hoped for and morenothing puts me in a better mood than YA contemporary.
its all the fluffy feels, the comedic romantic mishaps, the easily relatable characters, and the heartfelt messages that warm my cold heart.
and this book was no exception.
and i love that this story also talked about really deep and meaningful topics, but did so in a very approachable way.
and it didnt lessen the adorableness of the book by any means.
i would recommend this to anyone looking for a great YA contemporary to easily fall in love with!↠ 5 stars
I'll just say that I made it about halfway before I couldn't take anymore of how almost every single girl but the special narrator is blonde, skinny, nearly naked, flirtatious and mean.
Jessie is clearly supposed to be special and different from all of the “mostly blond, vacant-eyed Barbies and Kens.” And the constant L.A. stereotypes were more annoying than funny.
Girls are definitely not all blonde (high Hispanic and Asian population, actually).
Tell Me Three Things was too heavy-handed to make me laugh.I kept trying to make excuses for it - that it was just supposed to be a lighthearted, funny book, but I couldn’t get past it.
Tell Me Three Things is a charming YA read that has the perfect amount of friendship, humor, emotion, and a touch of romance. Lets start with Three things about this book: 1- There are three boys- and although they all have different good qualities, only one will be worthy of rooting for ;) 2- There are some feels in this book, but it also made me laugh a good bit! 3- The end will leave you with a permagrin! Jessie is in her junior year of high school and is forced to move cross country from Ch
Tell Me Three Things is a charming YA read that has the perfect amount of friendship, humor, emotion, and a touch of romance.
Jessie is in her junior year of high school and is forced to move cross country from Chicago to LA after her dad suddenly remarries.
Even though Jessie has never met him (at least as far as she knows) they become close friends.
I wish it wasn’t quite as predictable, but still a fantastic read!
5 STARS  ”Tell me three things I don’t know about you.” This a delightful, funny, solid, read that I highly recommend to friends who love a well done YA book. The story hit all the right buttons for me and left me with a huge smile on my face. Two years following the death of her mother, Jessie’s father springs the fact that he has eloped on her. Jessie has to leave everything she knows in Chicago to move in with her new stepmother and her teenage son. Things aren't going so well for Jessie it a
It’s simply the new girl in school scenario done to perfection.Jessie’s struggling to fit in at Wood Valley High School, she meets so many wonderful characters and with each male one she encounters she wonders if he could possibly be her SN.
He seems to be perfect and definitely goes to her school.
Through the new friends she has made and her chats with the mysterious SN Jessie makes her own way in L.A. I adored how the author gifted Jessie the one thing everyone wants which is to feel truly seen and to feel known and that’s exactly what she has with SN.
I don't wanna just flip gender roles here, but adolescent males have f*cked me over waaaaaayyyy more times than teenage girls have.Wait wait wait, before I forget - you know that thing of how all women want to have bulimia?
Especially with the blonde thing - we're sensitive, you know.But mostly, this girl hate comes with constant, incessant, unrelenting use of the word "bitch" (“bitchy girls” and “She’s high with a vicarious bitch thrill” were two I transcribed before I stopped writing them down, like, 20 pages in).
PHILIPPINE RESIDENTS!!! FILIPINO BOOKWORMS! YOU CAN WIN A CHANCE TO READ THIS BOOK EARLY! JOIN MY GIVEAWAY HERE! The deepest smile on my face, the lightest feeling I've had for the longest while, a warmness surrounding my heart... these were the things I've felt while AND after reading this book. I went from "Hmmm, this is interesting!" to "OMFG THIS IS THE CUTEST!!! MY HEART!!! ASDFGHJKL;" in like a fraction of a second once the book reeled me in its grasp. And trust me, it didn't even try. It
This is the number one reason (plus her bring adorably funny) that makes this book so close to my heart, and it's so hard to find a narration like that - something that doesn't pretend to be "lyrical" and "real" but is just effortlessly is.Imagine yourself as the new kid on the block, surrounded by people you don't know, far away from your best friend.
Maybe I’m becoming one of those cynical readers who criticizes everything (*screams*) but finding a realistic, relatable contemporary that has a good message and is enjoyable to read just seems so difficult lately.
Tell Me Three Things  is about Jessie Holmes and her messed up junior year.
if you love yourself, read this book.
Jessie is Jessie is Jessie.” 4.5 stars and my sappy heart!!!Another   buddy read  with Pragya  bc i MESSED UP WITH THE SCHEDULE damn me
4.5 stars LOVE. Man, this is turning out to be a good year for funny contemporary YA. Recommended if you liked Simon vs. the Homo Sapiens Agenda, though I think this actually has more substance and wit to it. Review to come.
Tell me 3 things1).
You want sweet.
You want amazing.
You want cute.
How about a lot of smiling??
This is the book for you.
Three attractive boys.
One that totally sticks out and pushes all the right buttons for you and you are completely yourself with him, but is he your secret admirer??
You get along with the other two but just don't have the right feelings for anything more, right???
I loved the banter and how easy the conversations flowed between each relationship.
Want me keep going...?
It's captivating, it's easy, and it's so stinkin cute.
For the love of God, what happened to Epilogues???
Most of the story felt like a blend of a bunch of other YA contemporaries...
It was like someone watched a Hollywood movie about high school and then wrote a bunch of stereotypes.
At the very least, it was super cliche.Anyways, the interesting part of the story is that a guy starts anonymously messaging the main character and they become friends, but she can't figure out who it could be because there are a few guys who like her.
I was a little wary after the story started out with this message from him:
I have been watching you at school.
WHAT THE HELL THIS WAS GREAT THOUGH I FUCKING PREDICTED SN AHAHAHAHAHA OBVIOUS AS FUCK. 3.5 stars. Rating and review to come because seriously I don't know whether to give this 3 or 4 stars and while we're on that good reads GIVE US FUCKIGN HALF STARS FUCK DAMNIT.
Find all of my reviews at: http://52bookminimum.blogspot.com/There’s really not much reason to write any sort of detailed review on this. Rachel summed it up perfectly in hers when she said “this book is the straight version of Simon vs. The Homosapiens Agenda .” She’s spot on – and she’s also 100% accurate when she says it doesn’t even matter. If you loved Simon, you should love this one too and if you’re anything like me you will have your co-workers terrified and asking . . . . .  Two years a
If you loved Simon, you should love this one too and if you’re anything like me you will have your co-workers terrified and asking .
To say Jessie doesn’t quite fit in might be the understatement of the year.
Bottom line is if you are a fan of teenage romance movies, you’ll be thinking this would be perfect for the big screen and you’ll feel like this almost the entire time you’re reading .
ORIGINAL “REVIEW”:I just started this, so I can't truly "spoil" anything, but the secret admirer has to be (view spoiler)[the new stepbrother, right?
Or maybe for all of us, they just happen in retrospect; they're only now perfect because they contain something irrevocably and irretrievably lost.”  I think this is a book a lot of teens (and adults) can relate to because it's all about coping in new environments and feeling like you're alone.
Jessie is a very relatable character, trying to navigate a new school and a whole new family when she feels no one is on her side.I will say I guessed who SN was fairly easily, I won't tell you how because spoilers.
It’s so easy to connect with Jessie, a teenage girl who just like any other girl is simply trying to figure out who she is.
I like the story a lot because even though one of the main themes of the story is about grief, it doesn’t overpower the plot.
The main narrative devices used are e-mailing/IMing/ texting and well, it’s not difficult to enjoy it especially because of this mystery guy guiding Jessie navigate her new intimidating prep school via email/text.
I was a lot like her when I was younger- too insecure, too unsure of herself, too much whiteheads.
Tell me three things I don’t know about you. Jessie is having the worst time of her life. At least, that's what she thinks. She's (still) been dealing with her mom's death since the last two years and her father remarried with a rich woman who lives in L.A. So, without even having a chance to speak her mind, she moves to this new, strange and luxurious house. Yes, you read it right. LUXURIOUS and Jessie don't feel good about it. (Well, clearly she's not me. I get it) And she's having a hard tim
Jessie is having the worst time of her life.
And it stays there even when you're living your life like everything's okay.
Here: I don't understand how Jessie could be so randy about boys, especially Ethan, (she wants to kiss his ear lobe) and thinking about dating a boy name Caleb just at the first time she saw him.
Jessie did asked about her life too, like how's she doing with Adam and all that.
Not so special, but at least it has something to say to people dealing with loss and having a hard time adapting with a new life.
miss !!! critical !!! edgy !!! reader practically begged me to read this book since March and now here we are 🎉🎉🎉also, what's with Julie giving me another delicious book cover?? ineedwafflesasap
4.25 stars. Adorable teen book. Sigh!!!!
Tell Me Three Things:1. I will definitely be reading more of Julie Buxbaums YA stories.2. I kind of read this whole story in just one day.3. I absolutely adore Jessie. If you don’t have this book on your radar yet, please make sure you add it to your to read list immediately. I was pleasantly surprised by Buxbaum’s debut YA novel and I think that a lot of people are going to fall in love with her writing and this story once it’s out. Jessie has had her life flipped upside down over the last few
I was pleasantly surprised by Buxbaum’s debut YA novel and I think that a lot of people are going to fall in love with her writing and this story once it’s out.
So yes, part of this story is following along with Jessie and trying to figure out who this kind soul is.
I love the bond that formed between him and Jessie despite the way things may have started (temper tantrum anyone?).
They were good for each other and it was lovely to see the way their relationship develop.Buxbaum is definitely going to be an author to watch in YA.
Perfect days are for people with small, realizable dreams. Or maybe for all of us, they just happen in retrospect; they’re only now perfect because they contain something irrevocably and irretrievably lost.  I’m going to be frank with you all: I never had any intentions of reading this novel. Nope. None. And then…and then I got on this kick where I’m obsessed with online romance types (or even love letter/pen pal types *see Punk 57/Letters to the Lost*) where two people are completely anonymou
And then…and then I got on this kick where I’m obsessed with online romance types (or even love letter/pen pal types *see Punk 57/Letters to the Lost*) where two people are completely anonymous and know each other in real life-but they don’t realize it.
And B) A lot of times, it’s the guy who knows first and he doesn’t like the girl in real life he thought he knew so well online.
Maybe this makes me naïve-but I LIKE reading similar books to those I’ve loved before.
like Jessie's attitude sometimes (she did grow throughout and since it'd be stupid of me to expect a perfect MC, once she started changing I wasn't bothered by her) and (view spoiler)[ the multiple guys who were suddenly interested in the girl who'd never been noticed before  (hide spoiler)], those were easy to overlook because of how much I loved the overall plot.The storyline was fairly predictable, but I still felt invested and I found that I didn't mind that it was easy to figure out what was going to happen.
As the book continues, Jessie definitely grows as a person, and I adored her character arc and how she became comfortable in her own skin.
As a result, whenever Jessie's mind reverted to her mother, or the changes in her life since her mother's death, I only felt sympathy and empathy, not annoyance, because I could understand her emotions and thoughts.I loved several of the side characters in this book.
Now. Tell Me Three Things is a book I loved so much and will keep in my heart.
girl is going to be super mean and have a clique and flirt with all the boys!!!!!🌹 GIRL HATE????There was SO.
Like, as soon as we met a certain character, I immediately thought, That’s him.
I can stop reading the book now.BUT.
Jessie, on the other hand… uhhh probably one of the stupidest YA characters I’ve read, and that’s a lot???How does she think that SN is all these other dudes???
But if you can ignore the girl hate, stereotypes, and stupidity of the main character, this one is for you!!!
I have to admit that it is a somewhat cute romance (tho Jessie ruined it) and is somewhat enjoyable.
4.5 stars. 5 stars?NO TRIANGLE. Or any kind of geometry. The synopsis is purposefully misleading - and for good reason!Check out  a swoony excerpt !***Review posted on The Eater of Books! blog***Tell Me Three Things by Julie BuxbaumPublisher: Delacorte PressPublication Date: April 5, 2016Rating: 4 starsSource: ARC sent by the publisherSummary (from Goodreads):Everything about Jessie is wrong. At least, that’s what it feels like during her first week of junior year at her new ultra-intimidating p
But are some mysteries better left unsolved?What I Liked:I took a chance with this book; I'm not a YA contemporary person, and I knew that the romance in this book could go in several different directions.
Obviously we all want her to end up with her secret emailing admirer (even without reading the book, you're rooting for him!), but we also know that the person emailing her might not be someone she likes away from the screen.
But what if the person behind the screen isn't someone she likes in real life?This book was absolutely stunning, inside and out.
When Jessie loses her mother to cancer and her father uproots their lives to move cross-country for a woman she's never met, she's plunged into a world of silicon, mountain climbing, bullying, and $10 minimums on snack machines. Enter Somebody Nobody, a mysterious email correspondent who offers to guide her through her new world, to teach her that home isn't always a place.5 ⭐! This book was adorable, sad, funny, and sweet. I loved Jessie and her nerddom, and totally would've been friends with h
When Jessie loses her mother to cancer and her father uproots their lives to move cross-country for a woman she's never met, she's plunged into a world of silicon, mountain climbing, bullying, and $10 minimums on snack machines.
Enter Somebody Nobody, a mysterious email correspondent who offers to guide her through her new world, to teach her that home isn't always a place.5 ⭐️!
This book was adorable, sad, funny, and sweet.
I loved Jessie and her nerddom, and totally would've been friends with her (and Scar, Dri, and Agnes) at 16 - and I could've used a Somebody Nobody a time or two in my life.
Two minutes into the book, and I already laughed, smiled like an idiot, and snorted. All I was thinking was, "Why is this book so adorable????" ...And then it went downhill after 5 minutes.Pros-I'm a sucker for romance-before-first-sight where somehow the girl and guy start sending each other secret messages (in this case, email/IM)-Some very cute bantering such as: "I have been watching you at school. not in a creepy way. though I wonder if even using the word “creepy” by definition makes me cr
All I was thinking was, "Why is this book so adorable????" ...And then it went downhill after 5 minutes.Pros-I'm a sucker for romance-before-first-sight where somehow the girl and guy start sending each other secret messages (in this case, email/IM)-Some very cute bantering such as:
It is just well-done and immensely adorable.Cons-The antagonist is the cliché "mean, popular, pretty" girl who bullies the protagonist for things that don't matter.
It's a mixed bag, but I'm sure some people would still enjoy it for some of the cute bantering.Things that you might want to know (WARNING: Spoilers below)Is there a happy/satisfying ending?
Tell Me Three Things is a delightful contemporary novel and here are three things I adore about this book:1.) The story is heartwarming and clever.
When her father remarried a woman he met online, they move to California from Chicago.
She haven't met him and wonders who is SN.
2.) Guessing who is SN.
Based on the conversations Jessie and SN have, there are three guys to choose from.
No regrets though because I enjoy it and the guy behind SN is adorable and witty.
Still, it's an enjoyable book and I recommend it to readers who enjoy YA contemporary novels.
Soooo good! And it made me cry! Not sure I'll write a review, but Tell Me Three Things is a must read/listen!
"Perfect days are for people with small, realizable dreams. Or maybe for all of us, they just happen in retrospect; they're only now perfect because they contain something irrevocably and irretrievably lost,"First of all, can we all take a minute to appreciate the genius behind this book cover? Waffles. Scratch that. Waffles with powdered sugar.That, in itself, is a major catch. "There’s nothing lonelier than a hand on glass. Maybe because it’s so rarely reciprocated". Quick review : My opinion
Of course, as someone new to the city, the protagonist (who goes by the name of Jessie) is absolutely entitled to her own opinion, but throughout the book, Los Angeles and its inhabitants are constantly being thrown under this label of "glamour,".
The two "popular girls' in this book both have almost identical names, in meaning: Crystal and Gem. Obviously, the two dumb blonde cheerleaders have identical personalities, backstories, problems and lives.
I feel like we don't need saturated, sweetened stories, and even though, this book was over-the-top in its stereotypical descriptions of Los Angeles glamour, That might be a turn-off for some, but I'm all in for solemn, substanctial concerns.
