https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/20972.There_s_a_Spiritual_Solution_to_Every_Problem
Maybe it's just me, but I have a problem with people telling me how to live when it doesn't look like they can do what they suggest the rest of us should do.Let's take for example Dr. Wayne Dyer's There's a Spiritual Solution to Every Problem.' Wasn't there a spiritual solution to prevent any of his three marriages from ending in divorce?
Instead of writing Change Your Thoughts, Change Your Life,' maybe he should've written 'Change Your Mind, Change Your Wife.'Wayne Dyer leads the self-help brigade appearing on the highly regarded PBS channel.
good
One of my favorite books by Wayne Dyer! So sad to hear of his recent passing (Aug. 29, 2015). I've read this one a few times over the years and come away with something new every time.
If you are struggling in any area of your life, or if you're having a great time and want ti to get even better, then you really shoudl consider this book.
Life doesn't have to be struggle - we create our problems through our thoughts and how we react to things happening around us.
(I'm also reading through Conversations With God - Book 3 and the message is synonymous with that of Dyer.) Nothing is real.
He tested people's individual strength when one of these things was held by each person.
Dyer suggests reading Hawkins' book titled Power Vs. Force, which explores this in much greater detail.
The principal message of this book can be summarized with the universal maxim, as you think, so shall you be.
It’s that simple and you can either dismiss this book as hippy dippy or you can embrace the fact that spirituality and positive energy need not be complicated.
I listened rather than read this book and it was as if Dr. Dyer was easing me through meditation.
Henceforth, this will become my go to when I need a spiritual tune up and find my determination waning.
got it for a quarter in a garage sale...but it is becoming worth way more than that...priceless
The empowering way is to view trials as lessons and opportunities to choose differently.3.
Joy comes from rejoicing in all that you are, all that you have, all that you can be, and from knowing that you are divine, a piece of God. Finding joy means consciously deciding to process your life in ways that focus on gratefulness for what you have.
How you look upon the world and the images you have within you determine what you will get in your life.
If you keep the vision of what you want, you will not be able to do anything but act upon that energy.
I saw a lot of parallels with some of the things in Miguel Ruiz's books.
I really like the emphasis on meditation to help solve what you think are problems.
The one thing that I felt was left out of this book is the idea that you can decide not to want something.
This book talks a lot about if there is something you want, you can meditate and this will help you get what you want.
As much as this can work, I think there are a lot of times when it is just as important to decide not to want.
It was good enough that I've just finished it a second time and bought a used copy for my own library. Much of the book is derived from the Saint Francis prayer. "The spiritual solution to any and all despair is one, to move your energy up by making conscious contact with God and trusting in that contact, thereby dissolving the images of negativity and pessimism, and two, to radiate outward this higher 'up' energy toward others who are believing in and therefore living, lives of quiet desperation."
This is not to suggest there isn't value in this work, for there surely is, it's just in my view it's not among the best of the numerous books he's written throughout his long and storied career.
Here is one of my favorite passages from it:"Who are the people who seem to be able to push your buttons and send you into a frenzy?
It's those button pushers, the ones who succeed in sending you into a state of frustration and turmoil with a simple look of disapproval or a frown, who are your greatest teachers."
Dyer as normal quotes others and recommends lots of books.One fact I didn't agree with but before I joined the LDS (Mormon) church believed is that there is no devil.
He believes there is no devil so problems are thoughts.
If you live in the now and connect with God (light)and keep away from dark all will be okay.
I understand the theory of bad and darkness, as a dark bad feeling only I look at night with light as beautiful.
I picked this book up to see what perspective Dyer would give me to help me feel at ease as I tackled those difficult times in life, and I felt so good as I read things I knew were true.
Constantly working on keeping myself in a higher vibration is one way I am working on the prevention of life's challenges, but when they do hit me, I know that I just cannot give them energy.
Practicing Dyers theories, has been time well spent, as I am well on my way to a more peaceful life, which is precisely why I picked up this book in the first place.
I read this book for the first time in 2005, finishing it on New Year's Day 2006.
I loved it back then, but didn't fully appreciate it.
I've just finished "reading" it again by listening to it on audiobook while driving through multiple traffic jams on the way home from Virginia Beach.
I love it even more now.
This is such an uplifting, positive book and is worth listening to for a powerful shot of optimism whenever necessary.
I cannot explain to myself how I gave it four stars on the first read through.
To say I have read this book is not quite true. I have it in audiobook format and it lives in the deck of my car. I can't even say at this point in time how many times I have listened to it as it gets played often and has for many years now. What I will say for sure is that if you haven't read or listened to this book you are missing out.
This was one of the very first spiritual books I ever read & it really turned my life around. Up until I read this book I didn't really think that happiness was a choice. I was always waiting for something or someone to make me happy. Dyer gives some spiritual advice for the most common problems people face. Enlightening yet practical I think everyone should have this book!
This is an older book of Dyer's but no less relevant. For people interested in spirituality, I find Dyer extremely clear and well educated on spiritual teachings throughout the ages. His clarity of ideas makes a complex world simple. My favorite chapter is Stop giving energy to things you don't believe in.Now, of course, the practicing of the message is the continuation. Wish me luck!
Well worth the time, and I did keep my highlighters and page flags handy and put them to use. Like all wisdom writings, it merely points in the right direction, but when the one pointing does so from a place of deep knowing, it can be truly helpful.
What a source of inspiration this book gave me. It filters everything through unconditional love and offers so much peace and fulfillment. I have bought many copies of this book for others and will continue to do so. Please get a copy and read it.
I have to be honest here and share my bias. I read all of Wayne Dyer's books and love them all, so I'm not necessarily well qualified to review them. I highly recommend ANY and ALL of his writings. His philosophy of life is a perfect match with mine.
Now here is a guy who knows exactly what he is talking about! If you want to eliminate "problems" in your life, Wayne Dyer really does have the solution. Profound!
Simple Truths
Wayne dyer is a guru. I don't think a week goes by where I don't think of or apply, or teach someone else a lesson that he has taught me through his books, audio books and talks. Transformative.
It doesn't matter what religious affiliation you may have, this book is universal. The only requirement is believing.
I think it's his best book ever. It jump started my own development.
I like Wayne Dyers books. They give a unique point of view.
Wayne Dyer gives us spiritual tools when confronted with problems. He examines the Prayer of St. Francis of Assisi and shows how it can work in our lives.
Nghe audio bằng tiếng pháp, chỉ nhớ 1 vài điểm chính hữu ích cho bản thân.Từ chối nhận xét của người về bản thân là trả cho họ quan điểm đó, nên chẳng có gì nên nghĩ ngợi thêm.Con người được tạo nên từ trường năng lượng, quan trọng nhất là giữ cho bản thân 1 trường năng lượng positive để luân chuyển tốt, tránh xa những gì làm xấu và trì trệ trường năng lượng của bản thân.Mọi thứ đều bắt nguồn từ tình yêu, hãy giữ tình yêu tràn ngập trong suy nghĩ.
Wayne Dyer is one of my favorite authors.
The first half of the book focuses on accessing our highest/fastest spiritual energies to eradicate the problems in our lives, and that problems are illusions that we concocted because we believe we have become separate from source (God or the Universe).
In the second half of the book, using the prayer of Saint Francis of Assisi, Dyer offers suggestions on how we can bring the higher frequencies of spirit to the lower frequencies of problems, so that our problems can be viewed in a different perspective and will no longer be as daunting.
This book does not have any call for justice, or any call for empathy or dealing with reality, but rather is a flight into illusion and self-deception, to pretend that evil and darkness do not exist so long as one has a powerful enough ability to deny the reality of life in a fallen world.
Nevertheless, in a world where evil is so entrenched and so powerful, and where there is no desire to repent or turn one's heart to God and change one's own ways, this book's call to a life of fantasy and illusion and denying unpleasant reality is certainly appealing to many.
E o carte foarte bine structurata si prezinta clar etapele si pasii spre a va simti mai liberi si mai light chiar si in furtuna vietii. Va face ordine in dezodinea mentala si spirituala.Veti gasi referinte si la alte carti, in paginile ei, carti ce merita citite.Luati-va insa timp sa o cititi fiindca sunt pasaje ce trebuie "rumegate" muult si bine, sa va intre prin toate fibrele, celulele , sinapsele si nucleii ( ori dupa caz, prin toate nucleele ;) ) SPOR!
