https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6567017-will-grayson-will-grayson
Containing the kind of atmosphere that can make you smile but also cry at the very same moment.The two main main characters, and narrators, are different in almost every way from one another.
It is certainly not like not being hooked by the romance will keep any one of you from enjoying this read.The plot was quite simple but effective and even unique!
I liked it, would read it again but, when having much time, since it is a slow-paced story.
To wrap up, great characters, unsurprising romance, wonderful themes, vivid atmosphere, slowness, not complex but unique plot still and 
I really appreciate the fact that Best Friend Will isn't the kind of guy who runs crotch first toward any girls who like him.
One of the best things about the audio was hearing Eeyore Grayson's poetry read first hand and hearing that narrators sing interpretations of the songs that Tiny Cooper wrote for his musical.
It was about admitting love for your friends and the people who have been there for you.It made me realize what an incredible thing we have going here on Goodreads.What I would do with myself now if I couldn't get online and talk to you all about the books that we read?
3.5 starsI am glad David Levithan joined John Green to create this story, because clearly Green is unable to write any other characters different from what he had already offered in Looking for Alaska, Paper Towns and An Abundance of Katherines.
He is a loner, a tad mentally unstable, but funny in a sarcastic kind of way.
I have read a ton of YA lit and still I think this character is quite unique.The story itself is a great blend of Green's and Levithan's styles.
There are gay characters that are not cliches.
It starts out with a bad tone as one of the Wills keeps fat-shaming Tiny (who, according to JG's website, is the *actual* main character), and then it just goes downhill so fast.
The only thing I liked about the pages that I read was the Neutral Milk Hotel referencing, but even that is slightly ruined by how Manic Pixie John's writing manages to make them sound.
Neutral Milk Hotel deserves better, okay?There's also the immediate issue of one of the Wills' way of speaking about Jane, with the whole, "She's not the kind of girl I usually go for because her hair is too curly and she hangs out with boys..." Like, what?
Will number 2 was written by David Levithan and he was a gay teen who is seemingly depressed, but becomes very hopeful when he finds out he's going to be able to meet his internet love, Isaac.I didn't really like any of the other characters.
The plot didn't have anything exciting happen, and I didn't get all emotional like I have when reading other John Green books.
I mean pretty much from the start you can tell a few things are going to happen, but on the chance that someone didn't see them coming I will hide them.(view spoiler)[ 1.
I actually really like Glee, but it's fun on TV, not books.
DNF at 24%  Alternate title for Will Grayson, Will Grayson: Disappointment, Disappointment.John Green, I thought we had a thing going. You write incredible heart-wrenching books, and I cry about them and recommend them to everyone in existence. So what the hell happened with this?I said in my review of Eleanor & Park that never have I ever been so glad to check a book out from the library. You can just go ahead and scratch that now. I'm happier that I got this from the library. In the first
So what the hell happened with this?I said in my review of Eleanor & Park that never have I ever been so glad to check a book out from the library.
Will #2 was utterly annoying, Will #1 acted a bit like an asshole, and Tiny, the character who I thought would save the book for me, let me down.
Ar first when I read the book's synopsis, I thought it sounded really interesting.
This would be more believable if their last name was something like "Smith" or "Johnson." But no, their last name is Grayson.
I really wanted to like this book.
Underneath the laughter and funny dialogue, these kids were dealing with depression, love, loss, gay and straight relationships WITH PROBLEMS , friendships WITH PROBLEMS , struggles within their family, school, and struggles with their own painful awareness.
"Tiny Cooper is not the worlds gayest person, and he is not the worlds largest person, but I believe he may be the world's largest person who is really, really gay, and also the worlds gayest person who is really, really large." ......It's a different experience reading a book written by two authors where there're each creator of a character.
I really liked the idea of this book, having two authors create a character each and alternate their points of view throughout the novel. For me it was an entirely different kind of experience and the two authors have such unique styles that I would say it is definitely something everyone should read. It's a story about two teenage boys, both of which are called Will Grayson. They could hardly be more different, there lives have almost nothing in common... until one night when circumstances lea
I really liked the idea of this book, having two authors create a character each and alternate their points of view throughout the novel.
It's funny and it's ridiculous.So why the average rating?Well, because I couldn't get interested in John Green's character at all I'm afraid.
I found his Will Grayson boring and a character who quickly became secondary to more interesting personalities like Tiny.
In fact, I just really like him as an author, I'm yet to be disappointed by his writing.
Perhaps I would have liked Green's character better if I didn't have this to compare it to but Green's Will Grayson just pales in comparison.
artificially inflated by the greens' ubiquitous little girl empire. for christ's sake, hamlet only has a 3.9.the feeling you get when you realize you've just wasted time and energy you could've spent reading one of infinitely many worthwhile books on something that has left you no richer for the wear is absolutely crushing. i read it over two days, first in the evening before picking it up again in the morning. when i fisnished, i threw it across the room and went back to sleep.
This book covered the gamut of teenage struggles, including homosexuality, depression, love, loss, true friendship and painful self-revelation.
The first Will Grayson, who I will refer to as WG#1, was my favorite as he’s the hilarious, self deprecating typical of John Green’s likeable characters.
His best friend, Tiny Cooper, is a 300+ pound, gay guy who is constantly challenging WG#1’s feelings and adding a fair share of struggle into his life.
That took some time for me, but ultimately it did occur; the first of which came when he met Tiny and his internal self-revelation helped me understand his dark side.
Remarkable both for its polished wit and intense compassion, this is a story about three things: honesty, bravery—and Tiny Cooper.Mostly Tiny Cooper, though. He's the comma between the dumbass Graysons, y'see.Extravagantly emotional even in its hipster self-possession, this thing runs deep and wide, and I don't think you have to stagger up and out from the last line on the last page in the last minute of the last hour before dawn, sobbing in snot-nosed catharsis and joy and hope, to receive the very same message as I:Love as thou wilt.—Jacqueline Carey, Kushiel's Dart
I wouldn't even have given it 2 stars if not for the fact that it made laugh a couple of times.
This guy is so self-centered that the plot of the book is basically about him staging a musical about himself.
I don't really know who would care about a musical about Tiny Cooper's gay love life.
Why would THEY care?So, again, it might be this book might be better appreciated by real teenagers - not teen at heart like me -but truly, if not for some rather startlingly genius passages like this:"you know, how people say it's good luck if a bird shits on you?
La verdad es que me costó decidirme entre 3 y 4 estrellas para calificar este libro.
El libro es indudablemente entretenido, tiene diálogos muy chistoso y otros un tanto profundos, pero sin embargo siento que esta historia funcionaría mucho mejor como película que como libro, ya que la culminación de la historia (que para mí fue una de las mejores escenas) es un musical, y creo que no se disfrutaría mucho más viéndolo y escuchando.
He de admitir que aunque los personajes de la novela me han gustado mucho por lo general, no puedo decir lo mismo del Will Grayson de John Green.
Es un Will Grayson al que no le vi nada, y que pecaba de ser similar a los personajes masculinos protagonistas del resto de novelas del autor.
Cuando Tiny se plantea como nexo de ambos Will, la historia gana muchísimo y consigue llegar al lector con una gran cantidad de debates morales y situaciones, como digo, humanas.Porque esta novela es humana.
Livre, je t'adore ....Took me awhile to think about what I wanted to write -- but at the same time, everybody else on friends list have done a GREAT job with their own review.
So I don't know if I can add more and I'm not sure that I CAN do a better job.
All I can say is ...+ Emotions.
This book made me feel A LOT OF EMOTIONS.
I was happy, I was entertained, I was pissed-off mad and was ready for MURDERING ONE FICTIONAL CHARACTER(!!!!), I was touched, I was sad (*sniff*), and in the end, I was
This book made me feel A LOT OF EMOTIONS.
I was happy, I was entertained, I was pissed-off mad and was ready for MURDERING ONE FICTIONAL CHARACTER(!!!!), I was touched, I was sad (*sniff*), and in the end, I was floating away with love.+ I loved both Wills immensely.
I know some of my friends thought it was corny and cringe-worthy, but I LOVED IT.
I was laughing with tears in my eyes when Tiny shouted out his phone number and then asked people to write down the Gay God's number for him.
Utterly irreverent.Laugh out loud humour.At times very moving!  "NO. No no no. I don’t want to screw you. I just love you. When did who you want to screw become the whole game? Since when is the person you want to screw the only person you get to love? It’s so stupid! I mean, Jesus, who even gives a fuck about sex?! People act like it’s the most important thing humans do, but come on. How can our sentient fucking lives revolve around something slugs can do. I mean, who you want to screw and whet
I probably preferred the writing style of John Green's half of the novel because I think I get his sense of humour more but damn did David Levithan do a nice job of writing a teen living and coping with depression.
For distinction upper case Will (1) Grayson is written by John Green and lower case will (2) grayson is penned by David Levithan.I've seen people level comments of homophobia at the character of Will (1) Grayson because he says some pretty offensive things about his best friend Tiny...
Basically, 300+ pages of a cutzy gay musical. First, as with so many books about teenagers, the teenagers really don't act much like teenagers. It seems most adult authors have forgotten what it was like to be a teenager. I never found myself relating or caring for any of the characters. There are some funny moments that brought a smile to my face. The ending I thought was a bit too contrived and unrealistic. I'm not sure about other high schools but I know the one I recently graduated from wou
Basically, 300+ pages of a cutzy gay musical.
First, as with so many books about teenagers, the teenagers really don't act much like teenagers.
It seems most adult authors have forgotten what it was like to be a teenager.
I never found myself relating or caring for any of the characters.
I'm not sure about other high schools but I know the one I recently graduated from would never have supported a "gay" themed musical.
To have done so would have meant being bullied for the rest of their school career.
It’s an okay book but not really something I would recommend.
The reason I won’t for this book is because it touched something so deeply personal that I think I might feel like I’m reading about someone that doesn’t understand me.I’ll never review this book as well as it could be, but read the sample and if it doesn’t immediately draw you in, you might never ever relate to it.
If you do enjoy it, it only gets better and more honest.The one criticism I might make about this book is I don’t know how YA it truly is.
But, depression is real and as a teenager (and adult) you don’t always think things are going to get better.
Nope; I definitely did not like this book. I found it boring, bland and just pointless. Sure, the characters were interesting and unique, but I just found myself really struggling with motivation to read it. In fact, I stopped reading it completely. I don't recommend it.
He is a loud talker but he's also magnetic in that tractor beam sort of way that attracts everyone around him to orbit his Tiny Cooper planet.
Tiny Cooper is such a contradiction in terms that it's comical.He's as out and proud gay as a Pride parade complete with drag queens and a marching band IN HIGH SCHOOL!
Tiny Cooper is a fucking unicorn, y'all.I haven't laughed this hard in quite some time.
One is his best friend since grade school, the other is his 18th boyfriend.
Tiny Cooper falls in love.
But really it's about Tiny Cooper.
I started this book by accusing John Green of having written the character of Will Grayson *First* similar to that of Holden from Catcher in the Rye but accusation soon faded away as the story proceeded.
Both Will Graysons are flawed personalities and it’s hard to like them but I guess that’s exactly what both authors expect from their readers.
It made me laugh really hard at times and at times it bored me.It’s no more than a one-time read as I don’t expect it to come anyway differently on reading it again.
Entre 3.5/4. Y, sinceramente, me ha gustado mucho más de lo que esperaba. Sobre todo porque al final el mensaje del libro no trataba sobre el amor romántico sino sobre la amistad 😊 Una muy buena lectura.
Hip high school students try to figure out if they care for one another while a fat gay kid writes a musical about his life while also trying to date a boy who has the same name as his best friend.By two authors writing alternate chapters, this is more than a generically bad book.
he's a guy with a stupid policy of not getting involved, which means we've got a novel in which all of the characters are stagnating.Would this book be meaningful to high school students?
Muh-te-şem-di ＼(^o^)／ Söylemek istediğim iki şey var. Bunlardan ilki will grayson will grayson'un lgbt temalı olduğu. Yani eğer homofobikseniz sizi rahatsız edecektir. Muhteşem bir kitaptan mahrum kalacaksınız ama ne yapalım •﹏• İkincisi ise bu kitap sadece John Green'in değil. John ne yazsa okurum zaten ama David sen neymişsin öyle *-* Sen hep yaz. Bizim yayınevleri o cesareti gösterebilirler mi? Ölüp gitmeden Everyday hariç diğer kitaplarının da yayın haklarının alındığı haberini duyabilir mıyız bilmiyorum ama sen yaz.
Most of the characters we come across in John Green's books are blatant non-conformists, so much so that you'd think every teenager was a bit like Lady Gaga, wearing plastic bubbles to school so people will understand they are unique individuals who just don't give a fuck.
Yeah, Tiny wasn't a very good friend to Will1 through a lot of the story and Will1 was horrible at expressing how he felt, but it felt like the most genuine thing in the book.
i'll be the first to admit that john green writes very formulaic characters, from his dorky male single-child protagonist to the manic pixie dream girl he falls in love with.
although john green's Will Grayson is distinguished by the capitalization in his narration, opposed to david levithan's will grayson whose narration reads much like this review (you wouldn't believe how hard it is not to use the "shift" key!), any distinguishing characteristics are completely unnecessary, simply because it would be impossible to get these two boys, who share the same name, mixed up.
Uopšte nisam očekivao da će ova knjiga kod mene izazvati toliku buru emocija... Totalno sam nepripremljen ušao u ovu priču.Govori se ovde o vezama, o prihvaćanju sebe, o nalaženju svoga mesta pod suncem, o usponima, o padovima, o jednom mjuziklu... ali pre svega o drugarstvu. Onom najiskrenijem, koje počne još u osnovnoj/srednjoj školi i znaš da će trajati i trajati...Od mene čista desetka!
It’s been a really busy, stressful week, so I thought I’d relax with this book co-written by YA superstars John Green ( The Fault In Our Stars ,  Paper Towns , etc.) and David Levithan (Every Day, Nick & Norah’s Infinite Playlist). A bunch of friends IRL and  on here have raved about it, and I liked the premise.Two teenagers named Will Grayson live in different Chicago suburbs. They don’t know each other. One Will is straight, is being raised by two concerned, professional parents and doesn’
I’m sure we’ve all Googled our own names and, if there are others with the same name, wondered what those aliases’ lives were like.It must have been fun for the writers to collaborate on; for a reader, it’s almost like getting two books in one.My problem is that the Tiny Cooper plot, which includes a musical that Tiny’s writing, casting, producing, directing, starring in, etc., is so massive it unbalances the whole book.
And while I like John Green’s writing, I’m getting used to his patterns, and his fly-under-the-radar Will Grayson is kinda interchangeable with his other protagonists.On the other hand, this is the first thing I've read by Levithan, and his intense, suicidal will grayson felt incredibly real, almost disturbingly so.
I highly recommend actually trying to read in all lower caps for five pages before you actually buy this one.
My problems with John Green's character, Will One, were easier to figure out.
I'd believe that Green was going to subvert the “token gay friend” trope, had he not written Tiny as every gay stereotype in existence.
Has John Green ever been to a gay-straight alliance?
He's exactly the same character as every other John Green dude protagonist.
When is John Green going to come out with a book as interesting as his YouTube channel on history?
:)John Green and David Levithan team up to write this colorful, energetic wonder of a tale chock full of love and music.
His words, characters, and power never fail to make my heart happy.
I mean the man brought out the pinky swear in this one!
But yeah—like I needed another reason to love the man!
Here are just a few reasons why I loved this book:1.
He is a giant ball of giddiness, joy, love, and power.
The power of friendship is found on every page.6.
Love.
One person’s care and love can change everything.I had a lot of fun in the Will Grayson/will grayson world.
