https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/15799166-release-me
Do you know what passion is? Most people think it only means desire.Arousal.Wild abandon.But that's not all....The word derives from the Latin.It means suffering.Submission.Pain and pleasure,Nikki.PASSION.-------------------------------------------------------- 'I want to lose myself in his kiss.I want to let the fire that's spreading over my body grow.Maybe it will consume me.Maybe,like a phoenix,I will rise again after being incinerated by Damien Stark's touch.' Because only his passion could
So,let me now introduce you to him.Damien Stark.....Once one of the best tennis players of the world,he is now a business tycoon.'No'.That's not in his vocabulary.He gets what he wants.And what he wants is....
"I'm smart enough to know that you feel it,too.This isn't just heat,it's a goddamned conflagration.Not chemistry,but nuclear fission."
So, there's a new sexy billionaire in town,And his name is,Damien Stark...  "He's tall and so handsome that the word is almost an insult. He is Jason and Hercules and Perseus - a figure so strong and beautiful and heroic that the blood of the gods must flow through him, because how else could a being so fine exist in this world?"  - Okay, enough with the cheesy descriptions; let's just say he's a former well trained, athletic tennis player who now owns an entire empire of several businesses (inc
You know the type, right??He's the type of guy that ALWAYS gets what he wants...And what he wants now is no one other than the lovely Miss Nikki Fairchild,When they first meet there's an immediate attraction between them and they both know it, so I thought: Oh this is going to be one of those stories, you know -
But still, Nikki isn't prepared to let her world be turned upside down by this powerful, domineering man.And then, he makes her an offer you'd think she can't refuse...
"He’s like an iceberg, Texas.
The deep parts are well hidden and what you do see is hard and a little bit cold."   What to say about this book...
Read this quote, you'll know enough :D  His mouth is at my ear, his voice so carnal, so full of lust, it makes my clit throb.
“I’m going to f*ck you, Nikki.
Pleasure?
We’re going to blow the roof off pleasure.
I’m going to make you beg for it.
I’m going to claim you.
I’m going to tease you.
I’m going to torment you.
And you’re going to come for me li
Don't read this if you plan to read the book, it's a big spoiler(view spoiler)[Damien sponsored a pagent way back when Nikki was only 18 I think, and they met for like a minute or two, but after that he basically stalked her life and decided he wants her the minute he saw her on the party.
BDSM IN THE BOOK AND ALL THINGS KINKY - Damien really doesn't seem like a Dom to me.
'You’re mine,' he says.'I know,' I reply, and I mean it completely. This is another one of those books that will inevitably be compared to Fifty Shades and the Crossfire books which is really going to deter as many readers as it attracts but, in my opinion at least, this is a really good one, even if it is very similar. If you like a darkly brooding, domineering hero, a feisty yet troubled heroine and a kinky, sexy romance, you’re going to want to check this one out. This is deeply sensual and
If you like a darkly brooding, domineering hero, a feisty yet troubled heroine and a kinky, sexy romance, you’re going to want to check this one out.
There's no real cliffhanger here but much is left unresolved and I feel sure that there will be sequels and there's a host of interesting secondary characters to flesh out the story, some nice and some really unpleasant.So, if you enjoyed Fifty Shades, the Crossfire Books, Raine Miller’s Blackstone books you’re definitely going to enjoy this one.
It is clearly trying to be a knock-off of the Fifty Shades and Crossfire series, and it was NOT working for me.
Damian is a bazillionaire hottie with an obsession for the sexy 24 y/o Texas college graduate Nikki; an obsession that apparently goes back many years.
Nikki's inner dialogue reminded me so much of the Fifty series, with a lot of "Oh, my!" "Gasp!" and so forth.
I didn't like Fifty Shades but I love the Crossfire series, so I gave it a chance.
Yes, with DAMIEN STARK!!!! I know he’s yours Nikki….but I really liked this book. I know a lot of readers have commented on it being a lot like FSOG (which I have read and loved……https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1...) and Bared to You (which I haven’t read but it’s on my TBR list).I suppose there are a few similarities between this book and FSOG – the controlling and sexy billionaire who becomes obsessed with gorgeous and damaged woman, etc…but the one big difference is the writing. So muc
I know a lot of readers have commented on it being a lot like FSOG (which I have read and loved……https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1...) and Bared to You (which I haven’t read but it’s on my TBR list).I suppose there are a few similarities between this book and FSOG – the controlling and sexy billionaire who becomes obsessed with gorgeous and damaged woman, etc…but the one big difference is the writing.
Also there’s more to the story than rich man gets poor woman!!!!!!Then there are the characters, which I found much more real and endearing.Let’s talk about Damien Stark.
READ AT YOUR OWN RISK ;) **5 SCORCHING DAMIEN STARK STARSCalling all Fifty Shades Of Grey fans!!!
You see Nikki has had a moment with the delicious, heart palpitating Damien Stark.
That first moment where Damien and Nikki eyes connect and the electric chemistry that happens between them is incredible.
She wants Damien badly but all her instincts are telling her that giving her heart to this man would be a mistake.
Damien Stark is like a spider, and I'm the foolish insect he's going to devour." ~ Nikki 
★★★★ 1/2! Stark Trilogy, book 1 (3.5). A debut by J. Kenner. The coming-together of two lost souls as multi-billionaire & kinky lover Damien Stark sets out on a relentless seduction of Southern belle Nikki Fairchild!   “Because I can. Because I want you. Because I don’t want to court my way up to our first fuck. And because I don’t want to play games.”   The Stark Trilogy is the whirlwind romance between former youth tennis-pro and self-made multi-billionaire Damien Stark and recent Colleg
The coming-together of two lost souls as multi-billionaire & kinky lover Damien Stark sets out on a relentless seduction of Southern belle Nikki Fairchild!
Damien Stark is a combination of swoon-worthy good looks and larger-than life personality; he’s enigmatic, elusive; intense, kinky, in-control; broken, flawed; ruthless and unyielding, yet when it comes to Nikki he allows himself to be more vulnerable and human.
I both connected with Nikki Fairchild and found her annoying, but no matter what I think of her she is who Damien wants!
BOOK #5 IS COMING OUT IN 2 DAYS!In need of a fresh start, Nikki Fairchild moves from Texas to Los Angeles to live with her best friend and honor her degrees in electrical engineering and computer science. And just four days after arriving at the city of angels, she is asked by her boss to attend a party to get Damien Stark’s attention. What her boss doesn’t know is that they go way back to when they met at one of her pageants. “You’re staring,” I finally say.“You’re beautiful.” Damien Stark is a
BOOK #5 IS COMING OUT IN 2 DAYS!In need of a fresh start, Nikki Fairchild moves from Texas to Los Angeles to live with her best friend and honor her degrees in electrical engineering and computer science.
And just four days after arriving at the city of angels, she is asked by her boss to attend a party to get Damien Stark’s attention.
Damien Stark is a retired tennis pro with a successful business in the tech world.
But, trust me on this, that’s not all they will be getting out of this deal.
“Possess. Have. Hold. Enjoy. Control. Dominate. Pick your verb Ms Fairchild. I intend to explore so very many of them.” 4.5 Steamy Stars!Meet Damien Stark   “He’s ... intense.”  Hot. Sexy. Surprising. Disturbing.and Nikki Fairchild nNikki is fresh out of collage and ready for a clean slate. She moves from Texas to LA to live with her best friend, Jamie. New city. New job. New start. She is at a party looking to hook a potential investor for her boss. Damien Stark is that potential investor.Dam
Damien Stark is that potential investor.Damien is a retired tennis pro, and a young, successful business man.
Damien and Nikki met briefly a few years ago at a pageant.
Nikki remembers Damien very well (you can’t forget a man like Damien Stark).
Damien is intrigued by Nikki.
He is a man who knows what he wants, and he wants her.Nikki wants Damien too, but she is afraid.
Nikki and Damien have chemistry.
“I’m going to fuck you, Nikki.
He loved Nikki, scars and all, you could tell how much by his words and actions.
Passion.”A fascinating story about smoldering attraction, skeletons in the closet, painful memories, toxic realtionships, masks we put on for the public and red-hot sex on fire.
Nikki Fairchild and Damien Stark are two accomplished individuals.
He is as expected, a control freak, powerful, confident, protective but not smothering, hot and sexy.These two people make sense together, they want and they need each other.
“Why does everything fall away when I’m with you?” “Because there’s nothing else,” he answers.
There is no running away scared, no let's leave this wound fester, nothing untold.
“Look outside,” Damien whispers.
Nikki Fairchild meets Damien Stark at the opening of an art show.
So, (view spoiler)[Damien wants a nude portrait painted of Nikki.
The bdsm is light-ish though not to my particular taste in romance, with the usual 'Sir, may I please orgasm?.
The heroine with emotional, psychological issues.
And this ubiquitous line that seems to be appearing in every contemporary of late - "Damien Stark is like crack to me."I will say though, that the heroine's problem did feel quite real.
If you've read and enjoyed (now I'm beginning to sound like a blurb) FSoG, Bared to You, If I Were You etc you'll probably love this as well.
[image error]It was mediocre.And I HATE that.Let's talk about BDSM for a second, okay? BDSM isn't a mediocre thing. It's pretty intense. Right? I mean, the entire "Fifty Shades of Grey"; "Up in the Air"; "Crossfire" series were INTENSE.As they should be! But then you have the "Stark Trilogy". And it's half-assed. (Excuse the lingo!) But that's what it was. I didn't love or hate the characters.I didn't love or hate the story.I didn't love or hate the dialogue.I didn't love or hate the writing.An
[image error]It was mediocre.And I HATE that.Let's talk about BDSM for a second, okay?
:)I WANT TO LOVE OR *HATE* THE BOOKS I READ!
(preferably love, but I digress...) The story-line?
Towards the middle of the book, I tended to sympathize the Stark guy; because he was soooooo....
There's just no other word for it.And maybe it's because I met Christian Grey, James Cavendish, and Gideon Cross prior to meeting Damien Stark (Seriously, I just had to look up his name...
Damien Stark just pales in comparison to those other characters.
The bottom line: I've read the GREAT stuff.
BOYS AND GIRLS, LADIES AND GENTLEMEN, I WOULD LIKE YOU ALL TO MEET THE MAN OF THE HOUR - MR. DAMIEN STARK: He’s tall and so handsome that the word is almost an insult. But it’s more than that. It’s not his looks, it’s his presence. He is Jason and Hercules and Perseus—a figure so strong and beautiful and heroic that the blood of the gods must flow through him, because how else could a being so fine exist in this world? His face consists of hard lines and angles that seem sculpted by light and sh
Damien Stark was a famous tennis player who's most likely friends with  Christian Grey, Gideon Cross, Braden Carmichael, James Cavendish, Jesse Ward - A genius, sexy, hot, possessive, control-freak young billionaire.
“I’m going to fuck you, Nikki.
He cannot give up on Nikki just like that.
Pain and pleasure, Nikki.
Nikki is not just the only one tortured and tainted in this story, but Damien also has a past that is haunting himself.
Just because the guy is a kinky dominant billionaire doesn't mean the story is the same.
I intend to explore so very many of them.”-DamienThe sex was a slow yet enticing build and there was not full penetration until well into the book and by the end we get (view spoiler)[a little backdoor action (hide spoiler)]“I want to belong to you, I want to belong completely” -Nikki.All in all I do believe there is enough “meat” to this storyline that will have readers devouring this book and anxiously awaiting the next installment.To the author, J.
I kind of wish it had been written before the hoopla that surrounds that other trilogy.The book felt formulaic: Obscenely rich billionaire (are there any other kinds?) meets young college graduate, playful emails are exchanged, some hot and steamy moments ensue, a little kink is thrown in for good measure, a bad guy stalks the happy couple, there is a misunderstanding that causes a temporary breakup, they get back together, even more steamier sex scenes, and a happily ever after.Basically, if you loved the Fifty Shades trilogy and are looking for something similar, then Release Me is a book you will most likely enjoy.
Damien Stark is just one of those dark, quiet types. He’s like an iceberg, Texas. The deep parts are well hidden and what you do see is hard and a little bit cold.” Well what can I tell you about my thoughts on this book...seems to be an adequate description.I didn't love it. I didn't hate it. To be honest, I'm having a hard time remembering anything about it and I just finished reading it.I never really connected with the story, or the characters. I suppose you can say it was a case of 'been t
To be honest, I'm having a hard time remembering anything about it and I just finished reading it.I never really connected with the story, or the characters.
I suppose you can say it was a case of 'been there, read that'.There was Nikki:Nikki is a former Texas beauty queen, currently working for a company that is looking for Damien Stark's investment.
It's just that I never really connected to this book, so I had a hard time being interested in the sexy part of it either.Truthfully, I was neither here nor there while reading it.

Her writing style captured my attention immediately, and while I initially thought this book was a bit slow to get into, once I did...whoa boy, there was no way I was going to stop reading until the end.Nikki is not your everyday heroine.
Because the reasons that she did...made sense.Damien Stark....oh Lordy, where do I begin?At first I thought he was an asshat.
Once again, J Kenner is a damn good author.
We're going to blow the roof off pleasure.
They are both far more well written, the characters are much more real and endearing and yes...even the sex is hotter.
My Nikki and Damien: "Damien Stark is just one of those dark, quiet types. He’s like an iceberg, Texas. The deep parts are well hidden and what you do see is hard and a little bit cold.” Damien Stark is rich, famous, good-looking, successful and full of secrets. He is also a little bit rude, straightforward, unbelievably charismatic and always gets what he wants. Only thing he misses in his life is honesty from people around him. They always tell him what he wants to hear, not what they really t
My Nikki and Damien:
"Damien Stark is just one of those dark, quiet types.
Damien Stark is rich, famous, good-looking, successful and full of secrets.
And than a proposition comes by Mr. Damien Stark himself.
If Nikki wants to be with Damien, she will have no other choice than open up to him.
But is she ready?I really liked the fact that event though Nikki was extremely affected by Damien, she stayed true to herself and didn't submit easily (I like when hero has to fight for girl in a book).
And I could not really believe their immediate attraction or how obssessed were Damien and Nikki with each other right from the very beginning.
I really didn't think I had it in me to read another erotic romance revolving around a heroine who is a meek and virginal little twit!
But I have to admit I almost didn't read this book purely based on the fact that the back cover says that it is aimed at fans of FSOG and Bared to You. Don't get me wrong I liked both books (Bared to You more then Fifty Shades) but I am so sick of all the copy cat books jumping on the gravy train!
Lol :)Yes Damien is an Alpha Male, dominant,controlling and a little kinky.
But what is truly refreshing about this book is Nikki.
I actually found her relatable and did not want to bitch slap her once!This book is definitely worth a read!
4.5 stars. This book was hot!! I loved it. Although it reminded me of FSOG it was still an awesome read. One I would recommend to all readers.

“Possess. Have. Hold. Enjoy. Control. Dominate. Pick your verb, Ms. Fairchild. I intend to explore so very many of them.”  Nikki Fairchild has just moved to California to start a new life. She recently graduated from graduate school and is trying to get her foot in the door for her business ventures. But, in order to get started, she decides to take a job as an assistant for experience and to learn the business side, so she is successful when she does decide to go off on her own.On her first as
At one of these pageants, Damien was a judge and Nikki briefly met him.
When he asks her stay behind instead of leaving with her boss, with the excuse that he needs help picking out a painting, Nikki suddenly finds herself making out with the billionaire.
But that is definitely not the last encounter between Nikki and Damien.
Secrets that have Nikki doubting her relationship with Damien.
And yes, this book is a tad similar to the Crossfire series....the controlling, stalking, dominate, billionaire with secrets who is determined to have the submissive woman with secrets of her own.
I'll never get tired of the bazillionaire who gets everything he wants so easily except the one girl.
I've been spoiled by getting books with dual POV's and I would have loved his.
The one thing I really loved about this book was the examples of him being a bazillionaire.
Nikki is quite persistent that she doesn't want anything to do with Damien even though there is this amazing sexual chemistry (of course...I mean that's a given).
And what I really loved about this one is the mother from hell...it makes for all kinds of great story lines!
Zzzzzzzzz….
Zzzzzzzzz….
Snooze alert!
I’m sorry; I just could not get into this book.
At about 50% in, I was still waiting for something exciting to happen and had to force myself to hurry up and finish it.
I thought it was lacking in emotional depth, resulting in a failure to really connect as a reader with the characters.
✳✳ Copy provided by the author/publisher for an honest review.______________________________________________________________________If you like this type of book, you might enjoy one of these groups.
Check us out!Menage ReadersErotic EnchantsBookie Nookie's Erotic Lending Group
:-/ I found some of the book to be slow paced, yet at times it was an exciting page turner.Good bits for me - great start to the book, plenty of tension and great characters.
Mr Stark was described wonderfully and I would have loved his POV - I think the author kept him as a mystery (which all added to the drama of the writing).This book has plenty of skeletons piling out of the closet and secrets that will have you eager for book two, but with an ending that doesn't have you mad over a cliff hanger.
Review posted at SoManyBooksSoLittleTime
I try really hard not to compare books as I read them to others since I believe every story is its own and deserves a shot.
So when he meets Nikki at a fundraiser that her boss has insisted she attended and attempt to woo Damien, you know sparks are going to fly!
I loved that!Now, I am not going to go into great detail, even though I would love to because I really loved this story, because it doesn’t actually release until January and I wouldn’t want spoilers out there.
But this tale is a different tale.Nikki Fairchild and Damien Stark are kindred spirits in their youths.
They both did what their parents wanted them to do.
Damien being a professional tennis player and Nikki in beauty pagents.
They met at one of the pagents that Nikki was in while he was a guest judge.
She's working for a company and she is trying to get Damien's help with a project.
Damien and Nikki have a connection thru art.
He hires her to be a model for a painting he wants.
Nikki uses pain to help with her problems.
Damien sees this and helps her with it.
