https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/107315.Pied_Piper
The title is a reference to the traditional German folk tale, "The Pied Piper of Hamelin".
The story concerns an elderly Englishman, John Sidney Howard, who goes on a fishing holiday in France after the outbreak of the Second World War, but before the fall of France.
His journey is hampered by the unexpected speed of the Nazi invasion of France, and by the fact that he eventually finds himself entrusted with the custody of seven young children.
Eventually, he and the children are stranded in Nazi-occupied France.
While waiting to escape France on a fishing boat, he and his charges are discovered by the Germans.
People help them along the way and he's taken in by a French family he barely knows only to find out they are more connected than he realized.
This really is the most heartbreaking and beautiful story!Shute appeals to my geeky heart by getting every detail of the boats, planes, tanks, every physical detail, just exactly right.
Whenever I read a book and they get some small fact wrong, some physical detail that I know isn't right, it just kills the whole thing for me and razes my carefully-suspended edifice of disbelief.
Children of different nationalities - (view spoiler)[two English siblings with parents living in Switzerland, two French children of which one has an English father and the other is now an orphan, his parents killed on the road by German bombing, a very young Dutch child stoned by French villagers claiming him to be a “German spy”, a son of a Polish Jew, and one more child….which I am not going to mention even here in the spoiler because there is a final twist at the book’s end.
It is satisfying that Howard (view spoiler)[gets to know and hear of how his son fell in love (hide spoiler)].
(Well, he remains alert to what's going on and IS ready to take refuge if need be.) At any rate he runs into a man named Howard, also staying upstairs in the club and to pass the time Howard tells Shute the story of how he crossed France with several small children just as the Germans were invading.
(view spoiler)[Finishing up a vacation in France, Howard agrees to escort two English children home because it's not safe in Geneva, which is where they live.
Nevil Shute never disappoints me, not being a present day writer.....his novels have a timeless quality to them. A very heartfelt story of an old man mourning the loss of his son in World War II, tries to come to terms with his grief.....in the process meets up with 6 children at various times in war-torn France & endeavors to bring them to safety in England, his home country. It's a wonderful read.....highly reccomend it!
A beautiful, heartwarming and encapsulating story about an elderly English man holidaying in France 
John Howard's world has collapsed; the seventy-ish English man responds by going fishing in the Jura mountains in France.
[friends of ours named their dog "Jura" after these mountains] When the Nazi army is poised to invade France, Howard betakes himself back to England.
What made me love the book was John Howard's patience: patience with the slow pace, the children's limitations, the irritating circumstances, the incessant difficulties.
I do not know how we shall live." He said simply, "By the Grace of God, madame." One last quote: "We spoke quietly as we lay relaxed beside each other in our chairs, with long pauses between sentences.
Thoroughly British, thoroughly enjoyable!Nevil Shute is the author of one of my favorite novels A Town Like Alice. I had not realized he had written quite a few more novels. This one, Pied Piper came highly recommended and rightfully so. It is a wonderful story, simple and deep. Thoroughly British
Nevil Shute is such a wonderful storyteller.
My library doesn't have many ; so I've been buying used copies of several of his books.
It's my one concession to adding to my own library.
I wonder if many younger readers even know of Shute.
Even the several of his books that have been made into movies are quite old.
This book is another of his WWII stories--an interesting tale of how an "old" man tried to help several children out of France as the Germans were invading.
Of course the book is better, but Alice and Pied Piper are my favorites by Shute.
I really loved this story and the character of Mr. Howard, as the children called him. I loved his relationship he had with the children. As with most war stories, you see the bad, evil and ugly things that happen during this time. But in this story, you see something evolving that makes you feel good. I'm not sure if this was based on a true story or not but I wish it was. Mr. Howard you are a war Hero of a different kind!
This beautiful story follows John Howard, a grieving 70 year old man, who escapes to a fishing vacation in France, after the death of his son in the RAF.
It's summer 1940 and he craves quiet, avoiding all the talk of war and death in England.
This was a BEAUTIFUL, heart-wrenching tale that blessed the socks off of me.
It was written in a plain, straight-forward style, and yet I was right there with Mr.Howard through every step of this extraordinary journey.
I loved the children in this book and Mr. Howard's treating them as people.
One of my favorite books of the year so far!
A wonderful story of an old man and children during the war in Europe.
The news of the War is sombre, the French Invasion by Germany is gathering pace, and is swooping southwards beyond Paris.He is asked by friends to escort their two young children, back to England and embarks on a race against time to reach the atlantic coast and a passage to safety, before the advanzing Nazi forces consume France.
Along the journey he picks up other young Children that for a variety of reasons need to escape the War in France.Nevil Shute's Novel written in 1941 is equally exciting and uplifting.
I stumbled upon Pied Piper while going through a list of Nevil Shute’s works.
The idea of an old man trying to return to England as the Nazis invade France and taking refugee children with him appeals to my imagination and Nevil Shute did not disappointment.
Pied Piper was everything I wanted it to be and then some.
Fans of historical fiction and WWII history buffs will find Pied Piper a treat, though be on the look out for occasional smatterings of language throughout.
The bulk of foul language comes from the mouths of two RAF men Howard and the children travel with briefly.
The historical story of refugees fleeing from the Nazi invasion of France is so compelling that it is still the subject of current bestsellers (The Nightingale, All the Light We Cannot See).
This is perhaps the first English language novel about the episode, so it's interesting from that standpoint, but also in the context of the refugee crisis in the news.
The plot is bizarre enough to be a page-turner, yet the initial premise is plausible, and the rest of the story holds together from there.
The word "presently" is used so frequently, that it's like a code word he's trying to get the reader to notice.
The original Pied Piper of Hamelin story is a German Folk tale where a man offers to rid Hamelin of its rat problem for a fee – accepted he plays his pipes and the mice all follow him to be drowned in a river.
However when the city leaders renege on the payment the piper plays another tune and the children all follow him into a gap in the mountain where it closes behind them and they are never seen again.
Nevil Shute wrote this book in 1942 – when WWII was still raging – and is set in 1940 when Germany invaded and occupied France; a dark time for the people of France.
A very leisurely book about frantic events- the pace fit a story of a 70 year old man traveling, largely on foot, with a group of very young children.
Seeing events through the eyes of the children who did not see the Germans as enemies but treated all people they met as befitted their actions- kind or friendly people were friends, mean people were not, be they German or French.
I liked that the book was written as a retelling of the story by a narrator who had it from the old man while they waited out a blitz attack in London at a gentleman's club.

enjoyed revisiting this author after so many years and still hasn't lost its charm of the storyline and emotions which come in this novel based around the time of the German invasion of France in 1940 and an old mans attempt to travel back to England with several children at the time of France imploding.
This is the third book that I have read by Nevil Shute.
Every story is unique and the characters capture my interest right away.
I've loved all three novels ("A Town Called Alice" and "Trustee from the Toolroom" are the other two)This was a wonderful story that kept me involved til the end.
I didn't read the summary of this novel beforehand which is rare and I'm so glad I didn't.
It was great to have the story unfold with no anticipation on my part.
I realized how the title is so fitting as the story progressed.
One of those old quiet stories that stays with me.Here's a professional review from KIRKUS REVIEW" ...
This is the story of a conservative, tradition-bound old Englishman, faced with the need to be needed, meeting it with quiet courage and no bombast.
In their checkered progress across invaded France, he takes under his wing other children, -- the niece of a matron at the Inn, a French child whose parents were killed by a dive bomber before his eyes, a Dutch urchin, and finally -- as the price of his own freedom, a German child, whose Jewish blood condemns her to perpetual escape.
Definitely sentimental, even predictable (at least the larger overall story), but in a good way, making this book charming and engaging because of these things.
A 70 year old British widower, at the beginning of WW2, has recently lost his son to the battle, and is finding himself at loose ends.
He decides to take a fishing trip in France (near Switzerland), but finds Hitler's armies advancing across Europe much more rapidly than anyone could have foreseen.
What happens to him on the way home makes for a very memorable adventure.
He shortens his vacation to return home and is persuaded to take the two Cavanaugh children with him.
As he travels through Europe his family grows as other displaced children join him.
The journey is long, arduous and fraught with danger (possibly being overheard speaking English is only one of the dangers).In 1942 this novel was made into a movie with the tagline: He Raced Hitler's Panzers to the English Channel .
and Won !The cast includes Montey Woolley, Roddy McDowell, Anne Baxter, Otto Preminger, J.
The movie received three Oscar nominations.
Wonderful cast, wonderful movie and a superb book.
Set in the Spring of 1940, this is, to my mind, Nevil Shute’s most endearing WW II novels.
It's the story of one elderly man's daring attempt to rescue a group of children during the Nazi invasion of France.
Although the writing is more pedestrian, it reminded me of ALL THE LIGHT WE CANNOT SEE by Anthony Doerr and SUITE FRANCAISE by Irene Nemirovsky.
I write about my father's time with the Maquis in occupied France in my new memoir, A FRAGMENT OF WHAT YOU FELT, so anything set in that era is of interest to me.
I found the relationships in this novel realistic and touching.
I've always had a soft spot for Nevile Shute, as an author who can tell a good story. This was always one of my favorites of his, more than the better-known "On the Beach" or "A Town like Alice". A very charming, very human story of heroism in the face of adversity. Possibly a little sentimental, but there you go.
Loved this story of an elderly English gentleman attempting to rescue some children during WW2. Shute has a writing style that is comfortable to read, but no less fascinating to read. This is a charming, yet occasionally suspenseful, story.
http://www.fadedpage.com/showbook.php...
This is my second Nevil Shute book, and I absolutely loved this one, too.
This is about an older English man who is vacationing in France when the Germans come during WWII.
As he prepares to depart, a couple with whom he has recently become acquainted asks him to take their children to England with him to live in the safety of a family member.
The older man is unsure, but has been wanting to be helpful during the war and has felt underutilized due to his age.
I am going to read more of Shute's books, because I really dig his writing.
Seventy-year-old John Howard's life has lost its purpose.
A retired solicitor he finds it hard to fill his days, and he is also suffering a close personal loss.
He finds himself in Eastern France as war breaks out, and he is asked to escort two young English children home, a task that gives him a much-needed responsibility.I thought this tale of young and old was going to be too sweet for me for a while, but as the events in the war overtake them the challenges grow harder and Shute draws you in to care for the characters and their predicament.
Interesting slice of life story during the early part of WW2.
