https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/200362.The_Cat_Who_Went_to_Heaven
This delightful little fable has a compilation of several meaningful animal stories within its pages with the cream of the crop saved for Good Fortune the cat.First published in 1930 and winner of the 1931 Newbery Medal, this wonderful little classic brings together an intelligent and loving white cat (with spots) an impoverished Japanese artist, his sweet little housekeeper and a compassionate Buddha for a surprising miracle of an ending. (no spoiler here)Sad and touching cat tale...... and you may shed a tear.
Elizabeth Coatsworth wrote poetry and novels, but she was best known for her children's books. Her second one was "The Cat Who Went to Heaven", which won the 1931 Newbery Medal for distinguished contribution to children's literature.It's the story of a poor Japanese artist and a very wise cat named "Good Fortune". It is set in ancient Japan and tells the history of the Buddha through a painting the artist is doing. It's a great story set with good moral examples, but maybe a little old fashioned for the technology minded children of the 21st century.
Yet, as Good Fortune seems to devoted to the Buddha (often sitting by his statue, and so attendant to the painting-in-progress) the young artist begins to question his initial impressions of her.This sets up the bulk of the “storyline” for this slim novel.
Although it is a children’s book, I’m not sure how many children would have the patience for or interest in the various little stories and some very young (and sensitive) readers might not fully understand the message and thus be very upset about the fate of the cat.
4 saoMôt câu chuyên nho nhưng ham chưa y nghia sâu xa. Là truyên thiêu nhi nên co nhiêu chi tiêt ky ao hâp dân, nhưng ngươi lơn đoc se thây nhưng tâng nghia khac nưa, đó là cái hay của cuốn sách này. Tuy nhiên dung lượng sách rất ngắn nên mọi thứ đều rất xúc tích, cô đọng, cần đọc chậm và suy ngẫm để cảm nhận được ý nghĩa của nó.
4 saoMột câu chuyện nhỏ nhưng hàm chứa ý nghĩa sâu xa. Là truyện thiếu nhi nên có nhiều chi tiết kỳ ảo hấp dẫn, nhưng người lớn đọc sẽ thấy những tầng nghĩa khác nữa, đó là cái hay của cuốn sách này. Tuy nhiên dung lượng sách rất ngắn nên mọi thứ đều rất xúc tích, cô đọng, cần đọc chậm và suy ngẫm để cảm nhận được ý nghĩa của nó.
on my goose.this is one of the best books in existenceit only takes about an hour to readbut is too worth it to possibly describe.
A delightful fable about a poor painter who is commissioned to create a masterpiece of the dying Buddha for the village temple.
The artist ponders and meditates on each element of the painting.
He spends time contemplating the meaning of each animal to be added, but is unable to include the cat, as legend tells that only the cat of all animals refused the teachings of Buddha.
When the painter rebels against tradition, and includes a cat in the painting, he is rewarded with a miracle.
A very good primer on the meaning of life, compassion, and love in the Buddhist religion.
I read this book as a child, and I have to say it affected me profoundly, perhaps more than any other book I ever read. It's a beautiful story, rich, historical, yet mystical. I learned so much from reading this book, and I think every child should read it, I think it would help make them a better person, as I feel it had that affect on me. To this day I still get tears in my eyes and get choked up when I read it. Sad, and yet the most beautiful story I've every read.
I LOVE this story! It's among my very favorite cat stories. A must read for cat lovers!
เราอานหนังสือเลมนีอยางไมคาดหวังเทาไรนัก(เพราะครังแรกคาดหวังกันมันสูงมาก และกลายเปนรูสึกเฉยๆ ในตอนจบ)ปรากฏวาในครังนี ตอนจบของเรืองสรางความซาบซึงและประทับใจใหเรามากชอบมากกวาการอานครังแรกคะ
เราอ่านหนังสือเล่มนี้อย่างไม่คาดหวังเท่าไรนัก(เพราะครั้งแรกคาดหวังกันมันสูงมาก และกลายเป็นรู้สึกเฉยๆ ในตอนจบ)ปรากฏว่าในครั้งนี้ ตอนจบของเรื่องสร้างความซาบซึ้งและประทับใจให้เรามากชอบมากกว่าการอ่านครั้งแรกค่ะ
Xuyên suốt câu chuyện, tác giả gói gọn những cảm nhận về cuộc đời của Đức Phật bằng một bức tranh của chàng họa sĩ nghèo.
Mỗi con vật được chàng họa sĩ vẽ trên bức tranh là một câu chuyện về Đức Phật.
Chỉ vì tình thương với chú mèo, chàng họa sĩ đã vẽ chú mèo chung với Đức Phật và những loài vật khác, bất chấp việc bị từ chối từ nhà sư và có nguy cơ bị hủy bức tranh.
Kết chuyện cũng xảy ra cực gọn với việc bức tranh được Đức Phật biến đổi: Đức Phật từ bi giang cánh tay chúc phúc cho loài mèo.
Not so much...don't know why this was an award winner.
Maybe they were using different criteria back then?
I only pulled two useful quotes from this book:"Only a clear pool has beautiful reflections." (pg.
18)and for the pure immature amusement of laughing at something taken out of context:"Holy thoughts are in his mind, heavenly desire,While I boil his chestnuts, here on my little fire" (pg.
32)Worst Newbery I've read so far.
From other reviews I've read it seems other people really like this book.
People keep saying they'll never forget how it touched their soul, yada yada.
I'll never forget wasting a weekend afternoon reading it!
Cats, Buddha, art, being nice to cats, forgiveness, and a cat. What's not to love?
I am confused how I would rate it.plot - 3 stars because I can't predict what's next;moral - 5 stars because of the retelling of Buddha's sojourn to enlightenment; I specifically like the story of the elephant :D excitement - 2 stars because I was just getting excited and it's done!But I guessed what really caught me is the time when the artist gave up everything for the happiness of the cat without any pang of regret.
Apparently people around will not understand unless they undergo a similar situation...I am about to finish this review when I asked myself if I had become like a cat...would I end up like the cat in the story?
I first encountered this book when I started reading. It was a battered old hardcover copy that was tucked away on a shelf at my primary school. When I read the story it made me cry. Many years later, a good friend of mine, hearing me speak of the book, gave it to me as a gift. She slipped into my office while I was out and left it on my desk. I cried again.Okay. I'm funny about animals.
Absolutely loved this book, with its beautiful illustrations and many layers. The cat's personality, the artist, the housekeeper, and the Buddha intertwined in an intriguing and lovely tale.
From what I've heard, earlier editions of this book stated that it was inspired by a Buddhist folktale but did not name the specific tale.
Now, the 2008 edition I read did not state that anywhere in the book.
However, when you search for 'death of Buddha' and 'cat' you do eventually come across references to an artist named Cho Densu who included a cat in his painting.
The details about the cat varied depending on source, so I have not included those here, but, it seems likely that this book is inspired by that story of Cho Densu.Also throughout the book are mentions and paraphrasing of some the Jataka Tales.I don't know.
I'm not sure why I enjoyed this book so much. There really isn't all that much to it -- but a lot of the best books are like that, I suppose. I may need to buy this and reread it a few times to get a real impression of it. But at the end of a long stressful day [at an animal clinic] I found it very touching.
At first he resists, for he is a good Buddhist, and Buddha did not bless the cats.
He commissions the artist to make a painting of the death of Buddha for the temple.
The artist draws his inspiration from leaning back and mentally reliving different parts of the Buddha’s life, thus entering into the true spirit of Buddha, and providing the reader with a biography of him within the story.
In the end, the artist braves the displeasure of Buddha by painting a cat into the picture.
All the other animals might receive the Buddha’s blessing and go to heaven, but the little cat heard the doors of Nirvana closed before her.” [pg.
The artist quickly takes a liking to the cat and names her Good Fortune.Soon after a priest comes to the artist to commission a painting for the temple.
If the other priests like the painting, the artist will become famous and will never starve again.
At first Good Fortune comes into watch the artist paint every day, and seems to love his work.
The artist paints Buddha and surrounds him with the animals whose forms he has taken in past lives, and he can tell Good Fortune is disappointed and sad that the artist will not paint a cat.
The second of my Newbery books this summer .
The artist muses on the life and death of Buddha, thereby relating many traditional Buddhist stories.
This saddens the artist, who believes his beloved cat has brought him good fortune in life.
The cat has even been named Good Fortune.Compassion is the main theme of this book, and it takes many forms.
He has compassion for his pet, and finally, Buddha exhibits compassion to Good Fortune, and to all cats.This book is something more than a picture book, though it has lovely ink illustrations, and something less than a chapter book.
Elizabeth Coatsworth writes a sweet little story about a man, his cat, and true compassion.
While painting a scroll of Buddha, a man known to us only as 'the artist' meditates on the life of that holy man.
He recalls stories involving The Buddha's encounters with various animals and, one by one, paints them onto his scroll.
His sweet little cat, Good Fortune, watches with admiration as the artist paints each creature.
"Alone among the animals, the cat refused to accept the teachings of Buddha.
And I think its a story that will always have a place in my heart.
Bomi sent me this book as an afterthought to score Amazon free shipping on my birthday present, but it's the sweetest little story I've read in a while.
It's the story of a poor artist, his housekeeper, and a stray cat they take in, who looks on as the artist paints a magnificant picture of Buddha and the animals who came to watch over his death.
The artist struggles with the fact that traditionally, the cat is a tricksy creature and apparently skipped Buddha's funeral, but his own kitty shows a touching devotion to him and obviously desires to be part of the painting.
What a beautiful story, each word painted by the finest of brushes. For me, as an artist (of sorts) and a cat lover, it was also very inspiring and encouraging. For so long, I have felt that I need to find my creative courage again. Reading this story, I realized that I never actually lost it - I just didn't recognize it any longer, for reasons unknown. And that all I need is to sit down and... wait. and listen. and *imagine*. And then Good Fortune (the cat in the story) will surely come for me, as well.
This book is perfect, tbh, I really loved!
การทีศิลปินจะวาดอะไรออกมาสักอยาง เคาตองจินตนาการวาตัวเองเปนสิงนันๆอภิชาตแมว บุคลิกผิดแผกจากแมวทัวไปจิงๆ อานแลวคิดถึงอายีจัง
การที่ศิลปินจะวาดอะไรออกมาสักอย่าง เค้าต้องจินตนาการว่าตัวเองเป็นสิ่งนั้นๆอภิชาตแมว บุคลิกผิดแผกจากแมวทั่วไปจิงๆ อ่านแล้วคิดถึงอายีจัง
Everyone can learn something from this little Buddist tale. Sweet.
As part of my Great Newbery Quest, I had the honor of reading The Cat Who Went to Heaven this brief fable.
The storyline isn't particularly complex or even essential to the story, but The Cat Who Went to Heaven is a fable illustrating many tales of the Buddha.
While on the surface, the themes of this book are patience and compassion, there is so much more in the tales of the Buddha.
I found, as an adult with a moderate understanding of the Buddha and some familiarity with these tales, I could glean quite a bit from this presentation.
A starving Japanese artist and his housekeeper adopt an unusual cat, and a well-timed commission to paint a picture of Buddha leads to unexpected consequences. This charming story was my introduction to Buddhism when I was young, and I loved the stories and illustrations about Buddha and the animals, especially the cat’s family tree, but I wasn’t convinced, then or now, that the ending was a happy one
3.5 stars
1931 Newbery Medal Winner. A quick, easy, and interesting book overall. I most definitely haven’t ever read anything like this book- I wouldn’t have ever picked it up to read without it earning its medal back all those years ago. In this simple story about a poor artist, a housekeeper, a cat, and Buddha, I learned things I never would have learned otherwise.
