https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/405987.The_Sibyl
Strange tale of how man's relationship to G/god(s) can sometimes cause a crisis of faith: what do you believe about yourself after you have been cursed? Is a curse a type of redemptive act - an act that will define who you are after you know where you stand in relation to G/god(s) judgment? I do not pretend to have the answer.
The blind beggar led him here because everyone knows that she was the best sibyl, through whom god loved to speak through.She narrates her own story before answering.
Now to the answer that she gives to the wandering Jew. This is what she replies:"I can see in your face that you're under god's curse and that what you say is true.
But this very red-hot hatred of god is perhaps your experience of the divine."My Sentiments:I was stunned by these and few more revelatory passages that appeared at the end of the novel.
I t speaks of the mystery of god's love and our futile search to understand it.
There is no life inside any more.Having been turned away from the oracle, he learns about an old priestess, a sibyl, who lives in disgrace up in the mountains; a woman that once served the oracle and had special powers– she was close to God. So he walks up the mountain to find her and pose his question.There, he learns that she too, has had a clash with God. Like him, she has been punished.
Like so many of Lagerkvist's tales it is a contemplation on the nature of God and the relationship of God to man.
But sitting here, old and alone, looking back—looking back over my life, it is you, my god, that I think of.
For it is you who have been my life, you who consume and burn all things like fire.
You who leave nothing in your wake.
My life is what I have lived in you.
The cruel, bitter, rich life you have given me.
The plot unfolds primarily through the narration of past events, through lengthy monologues of the two protagonists, that help them understand the futility of life without loyalty to God.
With The Sibyl, Lagerkvist goes back to antiquity: Ancient Greece.
In this piece, the main character was once a pythia at the Temple of Apollo at Delphi; a priestess of importance, but also looked down upon by society, a chosen one.
Behind the answer is the story; the story of her life and the choices she made and how her society and culture stigmatized and scoffed at her existence and what she eventually came to be.Lagerkvist’s use of symbolism, metaphor and eloquence to tell a story is top-notch and not one to look over.
If I had gotten out of this book what other people seem to have then I'd like it a lot more.
Instead of an interesting meditation on the nature of faith, I felt the book covered well worn territory (well worn even at the time the book was written), and was relatively transparent.
Instead I felt the woman's story dragged on quite a bit, and at about the hundred page mark I started to feel the book to be tiresome.
Her story is disproportionately longer than his, and makes the book feel very stilted.
But it may be that her mentally disabled son is another Son of God. In fact during the story, her son appears to leave this earth and rise into heaven.
He is the most inhuman thing there is.” “…he is both evil and good, both light and darkness, both meaningless and full of a meaning which we can never perceive, yet never cease to puzzle over.
A riddle which is intended not to be solved but to exist.” Of the pythia’s mentally disabled son the wanderer thinks: “A son who must have come into the world just to show that meaninglessness is divine.” A strange but interesting book.
The Sibyl is a delightful book.
A book about joy and sorrow, hope and hopelessness.
It is beautifully written, full of heavy symbolism, quite moving and a very thought-provoking and captivating read.On one of the last few pages of The Sibly, Lagerkvist writes "And so far as I comprehend it he is both evil and good, both light and darkness, both meaningless and full of a meaning which we can never perceive, yet never cease to puzzle over.
A riddle which is intended not to be solves but to exist.
To exist for us always.
I had never heard of Lagerkvist when I picked up this book a few months ago from a free books pile.
I finally cracked it a couple weeks ago I found it had belonged to my old poetry professor from college.One of my favorite reads in a long time.
It is a slow, small book - meditative and unafraid to be quiet and still when it needs to be, yet also able to pull off a sex scene with a goat god (scary) and a very vengeful cameo by Jesus.
I am having a lot of trouble coming up with actual reasons why I liked this book so much. I think it's the character of the Sibyl which is so powerful and unique. The beginning outline of her story follows a realistic one, with a virgin in the village being chosen to be the sibyl for the temple and how all was accomplished in the temple. But it's really her feelings and religious devotion which make the book what it is. All her love mixed with rage jumped off the page and grabbed me. I really enjoyed the book.
4.5 stars
Read this for a class and was struck at how beautiful and bizzare this book was while remaining lucid and interesting.Really, Lagerkvist is hard to review without just spewing adjectives.
I've heard that, along with the complete works of Kevin Trudeau and Nicholas Sparks, this book is in the library of Hell.Tags: pythia, god, sex, retardation, childbirth, goats
Of feeling his rapture, his boundless bliss, and sharing god's infinite joy in being alive?God's love is destructive, barring the nameless (all the characters are nameless) Sibyl from any sort of earthly peace and happiness (view spoiler)[when she does fall in love with a man she is raped by the god in the form of a goat the next time she is brought to the oracle pit and the man in found dead in the river clutching a laurel that afternoon (hide spoiler)], but it also brings her a sort of glorious joy in its pain.
Lagerkvist has given us a tale of two tormented, direct experiences with the divine: Ahasuerus (the Wandering Jew) who had a brief unhappy encounter with Jesus and the Sibyl who became a famous Oracle of Delphi for many years spouting messages from Apollo.
And yet age-old questions remained, like how to endure the whims of god, and then how to endure the absence of god.Ahasuerus was neither good nor bad, but a rather ordinary man living an ordinary happy life who, in one unwitting moment was unkind to Jesus as he was on his way to crucifixion, then was cursed by god's son to roam the earth for eternity, alone, unblessed.
I had a hard time reading this book, and I am still not sure why.
I loved Barabbas and The Eternal Smile by the same author, but I got bogged down in the middle and set this one aside for quite some time.
The second half really flew by like I was reading some great secret to existence.
it asks more questions than it gives answers in the end, but that fact is what makes it so great.
What is the true meaning of God's love?
A question that can only be answered individually...
I liked this book a lot but I am tempted to look for a different translator if it is available or learn Swedish so I can read it as it was originally written.
I am a big fan of reading books multiple times if I think I will get more out of it that way and this is definitely one that I will read again.
It is not a very long book but it is pretty deep.
Pär Fabian Lagerkvist (23 May 1891 — 11 July 1974) was a Swedish author who was awarded the Nobel Prize in Literature in 1951.
När man frågar "Vad tänker du på? Du ser ut som du funderar på något." och får 150 sidor till svar: The Novel. Samt knark, getmansvåldtäkt och Kristusförnekelse. True som fan! 🤘
This is my favorite book. It is odd and of course why I loved it.I had never really read anything about being an oracle before this book. It was fascinating to be introduced to here and then to read about the transformation of this little girl.
Does anyone read Lagerkvist still? He was pretty great. This one is a sorta holy horror story, brief, pithy, at times frightening.
The first line of the novel is: "In a little house on the mountain slopes above Delphi lived an old woman with her witless son." It tells us that they live all alone, seldom leaving the small one-room hut with no contact with anyone...."no one would have any dealings with them."Her son sits, as always "a smile on his downy, childish face."One day a stranger comes to their hut.
She had sinned against god and man and had been cast out, but he should seek her out, she is the only one that could answer his question.He finds our cursed sibyl, living in her hut and tells her his story.
The prisoner turns out to be the Son of God, and the curse he invokes is eternal life of unblessedness (it turns out that you need death to give your life some kind of meaning, or, conversely, if you know that you will never die all activity loses its meaning).
The desperate man has been wandering the Earth, seeking a word, any word, about his destiny—salvation—and, after being turned down by the oracle of Delphi, he turns to an old shunned woman (a former sibyl who sinned against her God and fellow citizens by being so silly as to have fallen in love with a man and getting pregnant) who lives on the mountain above Delphi with her simpleton son.
This story was rather dark and slightly depressing in my opinion.Lagerkvist's writing is very fluent and easy to read (though there aren't any chapters, which kinda suits the story, it's just a bit unpractical sometimes).Despite being a short book, the message and the theme are very big, and I think this is the type of story that's supposed to make you think. It mainly made me feel a bit unsettled and left with questions.I can only recommend this book if you're into serious and 'heavy' books.
I picked this book up at a used book sale and wow. It blew me away. I started it and just couldn't stop. There is so much about this story that I can't even put into words, but it was exactly what I needed right now, which is odd but... I will definitely be reading it again.
'man's destiny is but one. when it is accomplished nothing remains.'
Glad I read this before I went to Delphi. Quick read.
Something rather lovely and different about this book and story. I quite loved it. It has a mystical feeling to it that fiction of this age doesn't always have. It's short and fantastic and simple as a read.
It was the perfect book to read while traveling, as it was only under 150 pages, physically light, and the story has a good balance of being not too complex but stimulating enough.Lagerkvist was awarded Nobel Prize of Literature in 1951.
His most famous work was Barabbas – about the Barabbas who was chosen to be released instead of Jesus.
His other famous book is The Dwarf, which I remember to have read good things about at Jackie’s.
Another one I’m looking forward to reading.
That they can never know and therefore they grudge it to men.”What a strange, powerful, thought-provoking novel!
She too has been cast aside, and cursed, having betrayed the almighty by indulging in a summer romance, giving in to one of the most pressing needs of the human heart.This in itself makes for fascinating reading, but it is as an exploration of the nature of religion, and indeed as a consideration of god (or the gods), and also what it means to be human, that marks this novel out as something special.
The novel embodies many contradictions that feel hard to resolve, particularly that God is both love and evil, and that God is also completely impossible for us to understand because it is not human, and cannot be judged by human standards.I do like the idea here that nothing is ever forever, even if the overseeing power has called it so.
That one is cursed does not mean anything, other than you may have a long way to go before you can be saved.
That Christians try to portray God as having some human characteristics is completely alien to what a god would be in terms of traditional belief.
