https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/187812.Avalon_High
Mehhhhhh. I would have liked this WAY more if I had read it when I first discovered Meg Cabot. Oh well
Odd parallels between their current lives and the Arthurian Legend make cynical Ellie accept the fact that the long-dead King Arthur had been reincarnated as Will Wagner.
Avalon High seems to be teeming with historical characters and startling coincidences.
As the dark forces rise once again to crush King Arthur, Ellie finds herself plunged headlong into devious plots and fatal situations.
A fantastic blend of medieval magic and contemporary teen-angst, Avalon High is packed with chilling surprises.
It manages to provide a spanking-new look at the life and times of one of the most discussed kings of history……Arthur Pendragon.
I wasn't that impressed. I get frustrated with books that try extremely hard to prove they are hip and modern. While dealing with subject matter from Arthurian legend, I had hoped this would be an interesting retelling while holding the charm of the original stories. Not so much. That's pretty much all I can say about it.
I might have liked it 5 years ago, but at this point of my YA journey, I've completely outgrown Meg Cabot's books.
I loved the parallels in the story to King Arthur's tale!This is definitely one of my favorite Meg Cabot books.Elaine's character is similar to Meg's other female characters, but significantly more intelligent and extremely less annoying.
A. William Wagner was so adorable and gentlemanly :D The other characters were great too (except Marco).
Even "the cheerleader" wasn't despicable, which was a nice change!I love these kinds of books!
The stories that are a modern take on old classic tales such as Beowulf, King Arthur, the Trojan War, and such with direct connections to said tale!
Great read!
3.75 starswell of course I really liked this 'cause I'm King Arthur Trash™ ;) mayyybbeee a little anticlimactic in the end, tho.
Thanks to Albie for picking this for me to read!
Alas, I think my enjoyment of this book was severely hampered by my recent viewing of the Disney made-for-TV movie based on the book.
There were lots of changes in the movie (including the name of the MAIN CHARACTER) that were frustrating and a lot of the plot was different as well.
After Insatiable and this, I'm kind of disheartened about Meg Cabot's books--I always enjoyed her adult books and most of the The Princess Diaries series.
(as far as I read) A few Bookers really like her Mediator series so maybe I'll try those...Lame review.
TBR Pile Reduction Pick #1-- Albie
I LOVED this book! It was awesome:D
in a sentence: ellie (new girl at new school, thanks to her professor parents on sabbatical) meets will, the potential reincarnation of king arthur (and serious hottie).
let the fun begin!this was seriously one of the most fun, enjoyable, and sweet stories i have ever heard.
the story of king arthur is one that is well known enough to be hinted at, but is explored more deeply by Cabot throughout the tale.
i also found ellie's parents to be so refreshing - genuinely caring, loving, and interested in her...despite their aloofness at times.
It was laid-back whilst still being exciting.The only two things I dislike about that novel are that, one, for a supposedly practical person, etc, Ellie thinks too much about seeing Will when she's only just met him.
That's why it lost a star.And I liked how I didn't agree with Ellie all the time.
Meg Cabot may write for the teen girl population, and her subject matter may range from the frivolous to the downright weird (Airhead, I'm looking at you), but she can definitely write characters with personalities and an actual plot.Overall, a light take on King Arthur, and an enjoyable one.
Meg Cabot has taken the legend of Arthur and the main people in his lives--Merlin, the magician and guardian of young Arthur; the Lady of the Lake, who gave Arthur his magical sword, Excalibur; Guinevere, Arthur's wife and Queen; his most esteemed knight, Sir Lancelot; Mordred, Arthur's half-brother; and the elusive Elaine of Astolat, the Lady of Shalott--and found them modern-day counterparts within the halls of Avalon High School just outside of Washington, D.C. Ellie Harrison isn't thrilled with leaving St. Paul, Minnesota, and moving to a new state, and starting a new school, while her parents are on sabbatical.
And as odd things begin to happen at Avalon High and the age-old legend of King Arthur seems to start repeating itself among Elaine and her new friends, Elaine will need to help Will in what may become a struggle for his life—and for the world's future.Sounds interesting and promising, right?
(As all of the men are from either Minnesota or the East Coast, their "accent" is quite out of place.) I imagine it will be hard for female readers/listeners of the novel to like Will as much as Elaine does, seeing as every time he speaks it sounds like he's half-grunting the words out.
Ellie Harrison has just moved from St. Paul, Minnesota to Annapolis, Maryland and is going to spend her junior year attending Avalon High, while her parents do a year of sabbatical research in the area.
Though she wasn't part of the popular crowd in her last high school, Ellie is pulled into this circle by Will, who seems to feel some sort of connection to her, while Ellie feels great attraction to him.The plot thickens as Ellie, raised on a healthy dose of literary allusions by her professorial parents, begins to wonder about the parallels between what she knows about the legends of King Arthur and what seems to be going on around her.
ok this one convinced me to continue with the meg cabot reread
King Arthur as high school DRAMA OMG. Quite a bit better than the adult Cabot I’ve read, actually, and there was at least one nice twist. Still the mental equivalent of candy floss, though. And not even, like, awesome maple candy floss from the Addison County Fair, to pick a very specific and increasingly ridiculous analogy. I think there need to be superheroes or buddy-cops to reach that level. At least for me.I think maybe 1 1/2 sentences of this review were actually on-topic. I win!
Sick bookI loved the book soooo much and loved how it related to something else
3.5
Okay, I will start off by saying this isn't my first Meg Cabot book.
Meg Cabot leaves little hints before hand so you know what's going to happen before the narrator does and then repeats it often enough for the especially dense.
Ugh, I HATE characters like that, especially when they are in high school.
I know...you guys are probably like "Well, it is a fantasy set in highschool, what did you expect?".
She sure knows how to get people to read her books.
I knew I wasn't going to love this book before I went into it, and yet I read it anyway.
Another light, fun read by Meg Cabot. I liked the whole King Arthur twist to the high school romance. I only wish the characters said, "OMG!" a lot less.
One of the best books I have read. It is a book that I can relate to.
This book is amazingnous because Elaine ( the main character) helps everyone out even if she needs it the most.
I enjoy this book, I would give this book 6 stars (even though that is probably not possible),because she is a very comfortable person and does not let her judge ment interfere with her relationships with other people.
Elaine is a very comfortable person because when she first came to the school she acted as if nothing had changed in her life.
Elaine does not let her judgement interfere with her relationships.
These are the beautiful reasons of why I support that this book is awesome sauce.
This book is fucking RIDICULOUS and I love it and I always will
Ellie membenci Marco karenanya, dan sempat mengkhawatirkan keadaan Will, namun anehnya Will malah biasa saja, dan terus2an mengatakan bahwa dia pernah mengalami hal ini sebelumnya.Bukan hanya itu saja, Mr Morton, guru Sejarah Dunia di SMA Avalon, bersikap aneh.
Namun tidak peduli apa yang dilakukan Ellie, Ellie takut dia sudah terlambat menyelamatkan Will...Overall, ceritanya cukup bagus, dan walau idenya sendiri bisa diilang ga fresh, tapi apapun yang berhubungan dengan mitologi dan legenda selalu menarik perhatianku.Kali ini Meg Cabot mengambil Legenda Raja Arthur sebagai fondasi cerita SMA Avalon ini.
i used to love this book when i was younger, and when i saw it at a used bookstore for 5 dollars, i couldn't resist! i still think it's great :)
I have been a fan of Meg Cabot since first reading The Princess Diaries, I also loved the entire Mediator series and the first All-American Girl book.
However, I have been increasingly unimpressed with the later Princess Diaries books and hated the second All-American Girl.
I realize that teenagers are thinking about and talking about sex, but I don't like YA novels that just start taking for granted that young adults are all - and should all be - having sex.
I love Cabot's skill at characterization and the deft way that she taps into teenagers.
I picked up Avalon High because the back cover blurb hinted that this book was a sort of retelling of King Arthur set in modern time and in a high school setting.
That the characters of King Arthur's court are born again to play out their roles.
I couldn't resist such plot and I can't say I'm disappointed even though at times I felt that the narrator was a bit rambling and that some of the plot unfolds a bit clumsily.
I also wish that the narrator had a more active role, instead of standing on the sidelines for 3/4 of the novel, even though she did in the end save the day.

<3 meg cabot books
My new favorite Meg Cabot stand alone, ladys and gents! <3333Such a fun, quick read. I loved everything about it!Project Meg Cabot 2015: 1 down. 12 to go.
I definitely enjoyed Meg Cabot's writing style and how easily it read and flowed.
I also liked where the chapters broke off and left little cliffhangers along the way.
I don't know how she could have played into the plot at all, but I do wish that she had been more involved because she seemed to be left behind.
One problem that I did have was the thing with the rose that Will gave Elaine.
Now I'm no gardener, but I'm pretty sure that's not how roses work.
But what do I know?I'm definitely going to be reading more of Meg Cabot's books in the future!
