https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/29947.There_s_No_Such_Place_As_Far_Away
This is the story of Richard Bach as he’s invited to attend the birthday party of a little girl about to turn five.
The book and the message within is his gift to her, and a gift to each of us.This simple picture book is about time and place, love and friendship, distance and attachment.
The words are simple, yet profound.
This is classic Richard Bach philosophy disguised as a children’s story.
Lee Shapiro enhance the story and help make this a book to save, to share, and return to over the years.I was intrigued to discover that the little girl in the story is real, although much older now.
سر زنگ دینی دوم دبیرستان یا ادبیات سوم راهنمایی روی ورقه ای که توی جامیز یا زیر کتاب های درسی پنهان شده یا در حاشیه ی همان کتاب ها+آیکون آه)و دیگری به خاطر خاطره ی بار اوّلی که خواندمش:یکی از آن کلاس های ادغامی 100 نفری پیش دانشگاهی بود و من و راحله هم چون همیشه از کلاس و ماجراهایش فارغ، داشتیم درباره ی کتاب هایی که خوانده بودیم گپ می زدیم.
راحله هم گفت که «اوهام» را خوانده و «گریز از سرزمین امن» را و این یکی را و ...
خيلي فكر كردم تا كلماتي را انتخاب كنم كه وقتي حرف مي زنم او بفهمد كه من چيزهاي زيادي آموخته ام.
Wonderful - it may have been four stars were it not for the accompanying illustrations, which in my edition are by Ron Wegan. The combination of the words with the illustrations, which are as valuable in adding punctuation, depth and breathing space as they are in their beauty, make this book something special for me. It's a small book, and I found my copy for 49p in a charity shop; a hidden gem that I stumbled across just when I really needed to.
اين سومين كتابي است كه از ريچارد باخ ميخوانم و بنظرم اين كتاب چكيده و خلاصه تمام چيزي است كه نويسنده در كتابهايش گاه از زبان یک پرنده يا از زبان يك خلبان بيان ميكند . هنر ريچارد باخ اين است كه مفاهيم عرفاني را به ساده ترين بيان ممكن و در قالب داستاني ساده بيان مي كند .علی مرکبی
Ar tikrai mylios gali atskirti mus nuo draugų?Jei norime būti su tais,kuriuos mylime,argi jau nesame su jais?
"Voa, livre e feliz, para além de aniversários,através da eternidade e encontrar-nos-emosde vez em quando, sempre que quisermos no meio da única festa que nunca poderá terminar. "
As books penned by Richard Bach go, it is concise and it is precisely for this reason that I adore this book.
Still, Bach manages to get his point across in a rather poetic naive way, simply and still beautifully.Books like Jonathan Livingstone Seagull and Illusions have their place in narrative.
While Seagull has the turns of phrase that echo the flight acrobatics of the bird and Illusions gives off a soft hazy feel, There's No Such Place as Far Away takes us back to the simplicity of its message.I loved it first time round.
I still love it.
One of the best books of Richard Bach.When she was about to turn five, a little girl named Rae Hansen invited Richard Bach to her birthday party.
Though deserts, storms, mountains, and a thousand miles separated them, Rae was confident that her friend would appear.
There's No Such Place As Far Away chronicles the exhilarating spiritual journey that delivered Rae's anxiously awaited guest to her side on that special day...A book you can read in less than an hour with great emotions and thoughts."Can miles truly separate us from friends?
If we want to be with someone we love, aren't we already there?"
I read this several years ago. I love to give this as a gift to someone who moves away. The illustrations in this book are awesome.
Si fa fatica persino a capire cosa cavolo sia. Inclino a supporre che si tratti di una presa per il "culo". Perdonatemi il termine triviale.
This is a great kids book. It's simple and inspiring, making it's point in such a way that you really can't argue that there's no such place as far away.
عالی. خوندش پنج دقیقه هم طول نکشید.به این میگن کتابنویسنده های دیگه شانصد صفحه مینویسن تا بتونن اندیشه هاشون رو بیان کنن ولی ریچارد باخ توی چهار صفحه خلاصه و کامل هر چی لازم بود رو گفت
(...)Ningún lugar está lejos para los seres con imaginación, capaces de comprometerse con la gente, de amar, de vivir cada día como si fuera el primero y el último.
Ninguna persona está lejos si existe el deseo y la voluntad de estar a su lado"."¿Puede la distancia separarnos realmente de nuestros amigos?
Pero recuerda que la verdad no deja de ser verdadera por el hecho de que no se la conozca"."Las únicas cosas importantes son las que están hechas de alegría y de verdad, y no de vidrio y hojalata"."No puedo viajar para verte porque ya estoy contigo.
To be honest....
I'm not entirely sure I understood what I just read.
However, besides the illustrations being lovely, Bach writes some lovely philosophical and sentimental prose.
I cannot take that away from him.
The perspective however is lost on me, I will re-read it when I'm more awake with strong coffee.
But I kept trying to see who he was supposed to be, the narrator, is it something unseen, is it Bach, is it the sun or the moon, something simply we carry within?
I'm not exactly sure.
It is still very lovely but after Jonathan Livingston Seagull I think you expect something a bit more.
Short and sweet. Nice book but did not say anything new. Simply reiterated what has already been said in his other books. However, the book did have a nice feel to it.. felt like it was for children, although i don't think kids will understand the underlying philosophy.. :)The book itself would be a 2 star rating from me, as it was nothing new or special but the artwork in the book by Lee Shapiro deserves the remaining two stars and therefore a 4-star rating, merely because of the soothing yet wonderful artwork.
Può forse una distanza materiale separarci davvero dagli amici?Se desideri essere accanto a qualcuno che ami, non ci sei forse già?”"Un anno più lontana dall'infanzia? Non mi sembra che questo sia crescere!""l'essere ignota non impedisce alla verità d'essere vera".Queste frasi estrapolate dal testo aiutano a capire quanto sia bello.... da leggere (ci si mette forse 1 ora!) x meditare a lungo su se stessi.
Ron Wegen's illustrations are exquisite.I am not exactly certain how I feel about "feel good" books such as this. I do know at the end of this book and others like it, I feel almost icky. As in, "Oh, take your schlocky crap and shove it." I cannot help feeling that I should like or enjoy books such as this because they are happy and joyful and blech!*!*I think I need to look into this further, but hopefully by not reading another book like this.
داستانی کوتاه از نویسنده کتاب جاناتان مرغ دریایی، در مورد پرنده ای که به جشن تولد دوستش میره ولی در برخورد با سایررپرندگان دیدگاهش نسبت به حقیقت عوض میشه، برای مثال یکی از پرنده ها بهش میگه وقتی اون دوستت در قلب تو جا داره رفتن چه معنی میده
This book is really short, and has always meant a lot to me. I think it's a good book for anyone going off to college, or leaving you. It really does remind you that there is no place far away when you're friends. :)
Wow, un pequeño libro que siempre debes tener a la mano. Nos enseña que la distancia no separa a los verdaderos amigos.
Otro libro de este autor del cual casi no entendí nada, simplemente lo leí porque a mi padre le gustaba y tenia curiosidad de que trataba.
un libro sumamente tierno, sencillísimo pero tan profundo en su esencia, tanto como la amistad, aquella que trasciende todo espacio físico.
Me encantó, especialmente por que en ese momento me encontraba tan lejos de a quienes amo, y aún es así. Los libros de Bach me encantan
The illustrations are marvels, dreamlike and colorful. The story is a longlasting fantasy. It's absolutely fabulous.
این کتابو نخریدم همونجا تو کتابفروشی خوندمو تمومش کردم :)))لذت فرا رفتن از دنیا ودلواپسی های اناگر حقیقت شناخته نشود ویا دانسته نشود باز هم حقبقت است
کوتاه و بسبار عمیقبه چالش کشیدن کلمات و در عین حال مفاهیم انسانی و آرمانی آنها مانند میرم -تولد -بزرگ شدن و...
Cuando en tu vida las distancias con gente querida son algo inevitable, este libro te saca una sonrisa y una lagrima a la vez.
This is a very short book, and most of it is pictures.
I read though it twice yesterday.
Although I am a fan of Richard Bach this one I just couldn't understand.
On the way to a girl's birthday via flying with birds he is "taught" that he is always with her (so he doesn't need to go?).
Don't buy it.
If my friends aren't around I miss them - I am not "always" with them.
But he does give her a ring which can never be taken away from her - how is that?
Beautifully written, loved each wordsA very dear friend recommended this piece of work to me to read...I loved reading it and would recommend to everyone who want to understand and appreciate what friendship is...
