https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/275558.Look_Out_Secret_Seven
A Hunt for Some Missing Medals3 December 2013 Well, here we have it, the final Secret Seven book that I needed to read to complete the entire Secret Seven series (and as I have said a number of times previously since I hadn't read the entire series when I was I kid I can't really put it down as a reread). That leaves only one more Enid Blyton book to read when I can say that I have finally completed all the books of hers that I have wanted to read (and I am really going to resist the temptation
A Hunt for Some Missing Medals3 December 2013	Well, here we have it, the final Secret Seven book that I needed to read to complete the entire Secret Seven series (and as I have said a number of times previously since I hadn't read the entire series when I was I kid I can't really put it down as a reread).
Anyway, you can blame Goodreads for this goal simply because back in the days when I first signed up to the site I was looking for as many books as possible to inflate the number of books that I had read, and of course the Enid Blyton books came to mind.
I've been tempted to describe this story as meandering, but it isn't really - it's very clearly but very clumsily focused on setting up the ridiculous, farcical showdown in the woods in the middle of the night, and that's really all there is to it.
There is an opportunity here to give Colin a spell in the spotlight thanks to his role as liaison with the old general, but it just isn't happening!This book could have earned an extra star by having the gang be a bit more sensible and/or daring during their night adventure.
The climax with the big Alsatian has potential, but I really wanted to see Peter lead the dog off in one direction so that the others could all scatter.
Enid Blyton is an amazing childrens author, bestselling in the world. Although almost undiscovered by Americans.This series (The Secret Seven) Features 7 children who form a backyard club. They love to have meetings with Secret Passwords, etc. Soon, they begin to fall into mysteries. This series is for the younger reader than the other series Enid Blyton wrote for children. 8-10 years old maybe.Great reading. introduce your children to Enid Blyton today!
Another great Secret Seven mystery. A great action scene when the Police dog handler brings in a couple of working dogs to help. Second last book in the series, I need to work out what we will read next!
a good book for children from 9 to 11. but after that u outgrow this and read better books. but as a reader reading this since 3 years, i like it
it was interesting and i was very curious to read and know what was coming next ..... WELL DONE Secret seven!
It was half-way fun and half-way boring.
Scamper got short shrift a little, when you think about it. Seven kids plus one dog equals the Secret Seven, but then four kids plus one dog equals the Famous Five! Tch.
Good read.
When I read these as a child I loved them. Introducing to my own children they remain just as good today.
The Secret Seven have a dual mystery this time around: they are bent on helping an old General recover his stolen medals, while they also want to help protect the Bramley woods from nest hunters.
Colin has met the General and witnessed how distraught the old man was at the loss of his precious medals, which remind him of his past years of glory and bravery.
The Seven have no intention of getting the five hundred pound reward.
All they want to do is help the General...
And so off they go, accompanied by Scamper!A simple, yet well-written mystery tale for kids from Enid Blyton!
The penultimate book in the Secret Seven series sees more of the same although the plots seem to be getting weaker and the series feels very tired at this point. It was clearly a later Blyton book, perhaps by this point she had begun to run out of ideas.
Very nice book, interesting characters.
I like it because I really like these kind of books, like adventure books. I really like enid Blighton. I liked this book because they were trying to do something for someone.
Amazing book.
Revisiting the books of my youth out of a feeling of nostalgia! I loved Enid Blyton when I was younger and can't wait to re-read these with my own children.
the Secret Seven dedicates themselves to solving two mysteries: who has been destroying birds' nests in the wood and who stole the old general's medals?
Meanwhile, other Secret Seven-ers run off some boys who are harassing birds and meet a changeable fellow who tells them of a dark night where he saw a man sneakily put a box in a hole in a tree trunk, which our man, with his abnormally large hands, was unable to retrieve.
But the Secret Seven stakes out the wood at night and finds their man arguing with a sinister, tiny-handed man.
I'm disappointed in you, Mrs. Blyton!http://surfeitofbooks.blogspot.com/20...
wunderbare Bücher :)
This is a simple book, a simple story, that has delighted children for generations.
I discovered the Secret Seven in Jane Brocket's book Cherry Cake and Ginger Beer.
The seven are always enjoying the most delicious sounding food.
Jane Brocket talked about these books with such affection that I knew I had to read it for myself.
I am very glad I read it.
But, I can sure see where it would to young children.
Secret clubs with passwords, a mystery to solve, good food, pranks...
this book has it all.
I'm going to give it to Sloane to read next.
I read Famous Five and Secret Seven about the same time. I do not know if it is just me, but I found the Secret Seven mysteries to be a bit more mysterious… if you know what I mean.But yes, all the early lessons I have learnt about friendships and life are from reading Enid Blyton Books early on. So I thoroughly encourage all children to read them. It is like passing a passage of life and the secret seven series is no different.
these books i grew up with. i wanted to be a part of their adventures and i was when i read them. i reccommend these books for any child under 10.I has been a while scince i read these books so i can't give a proper review.
i think im just too grown to read secret seven. but still i enjoy it.its really amazing to know that all these kids were actually real!!!really good they escaped from those dogs!!and its awesome how they receive those medals in return!!
The BBC audiobook narrator read too fast for me.
enid blyton is an europe author and she is one of my favorites... all her books are a must read.... this one is a mystery by the secret seven
104 - 2012
Felt fun and excited to read this book and poor grandpa who lost his medals awarded for his achievements!!!
Bumper collection of Secret Seven - not as good of a series as Fatty and Famous Five
It is a adventurous book. I will recommend to any teenager or child above the age of five
gsyhdhfh
Pre teen reads
