https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/117.Heretics_of_Dune
As usual, the Reverend Publisher was seated at her desk, writing.So many lives touched by her decisions, he thought."Well?"She looked up.
I am working as hard as I can, Reverend Publisher.
He will be ready in time."She glanced at him again, and again he flinched.
I have no taste.Taste is the sales-killer, the hesitation that brings total profit meltdown.I will conquer my taste.When I have stamped it out, I will look at what I have written.I will read through it from start to finish.There will be nothing left of a great series.Only crap will remain.
I know, you are like, wait, 5 stars?
And I am, like, I really enjoyed this book.
I mean, I learned about much of the Dune universe that was never mentioned in the first four books (sex, Ix, the Tleilaxu, the Bene Geserit proscription of love...) and I really liked Teg amd Odrade and even Lucillle and the new ghola.
The action was great especially at the end (even if Teg’s capture of the Honored Matre’s no-ship was frustratingly fast-forwarded.
Philosophically, there was a LOT to chew on and the tech was probably the most diverse and interesting of all the Dune series since the first one.
I have to admit that I put this one on the backburner for years and years and years, even though I attempted to re-read the series several times over the decades, I always got stuck right at the end of God Emperor of Dune and something in me just didn't want to pick up the two novels afterward.This is strange to me!
The Great God Leto II has been dead for 1.5k years after taking a dip in the aquaduct, turning into sandtrout that have now become full sandworms.
The similarities between Teg and the original Leto is pretty suggestive and the spice trance doubly so.
He was initially cloned in book 2 which was kind of cheap trick to bring a dead guy back, but it least that action served a very well explained purpose.
You can imagine that this same act in the beginning of this book felt like a really bad joke – I hoped the madness would stop after Leto II was out of the picture.To add an insult to the injury, nobody bothers to explain what was so outstanding about the guy to begin with: he was loyal and heroic, but he did not possess any qualities making his presence necessary for literally everybody and their brother in the Universe.
Buddy read with Athena!“The surest way to keep a secret is to make someone think they already know the answer.”The tyrant God Emperor has returned to the sands of Dune.
But on the surface of Dune, a small girl might be able to break the balance when she finds that she is able to control the mighty sandworms themselves.Heretics of Dune is a giant improvement from the last book in the series, God Emperor of Dune.
The epic feel is still gone, old boring characters are recycled, and even Frank Herbert's impressive pieces of social criticism are fewer and far between than they once were.While I enjoyed reading this book, I demand more from this series.
As Heretics of Dune begins, the reign of “the Tyrant” Leto II, the God-Emperor has been over for 1,500 years and has replaced the Butlerian Jihad as a back-story myth and Paul Muab dib and the Lady Jessica have taken the roles of a far distant savior and holy mother.
While the series had lagged somewhat under the great worm God Emperor Leto II, Heretics revives the complexity that made Dune so attractive to readers.
There were three years between the time I put down God Emperor of Dune and when I finally came back around to finish the series.
It appears to have been a question the sisters of the Bene Gesserit started asking themselves as well and once they were free from the direct yoke of the god-emperor (though not of his pre-destined plan for humanity), they decided to keep up the tradition for themselves and see what the result might be.And so we begin this volume of the series at a Bene Gesserit fortress located on the planet Gammu (formerly Geidi Prime, home of both the Harkonnens and the original Duncan Idaho) watching as a young ghola is being trained for purposes that even his teachers and protectors aren’t fully aware of.
The fourth book, God Emperor of Dune, is definitely the worst of the bunch, in my opinion, and yet I’m glad I read it long, long ago so that I knew what the main characters in Heretics were talking about!
(Not enough to re-read God Emperor, mind you.) Things I like in this book?
In the Dune universe, it is resistance to sexuality that is rebellious.Then there’s the whole issue of the Bene Gesserit and the Honored Matres being two very influential groups of women, bent on controlling the universe through sex.
Do you see what I keep saying about Herbert leaving WAY too much of what would make his books make more sense vague and up to the reader's own imagination instead of giving us clear character motivations and explanations on the import of certain people and events that bring us into the story?The Good?
That he was able to concieve of a story spanning so great a time, and account for the passage of time, like the names of planets changing, and show the long term effects of decisions made in the distant past by long dead characters, speaks to his prouesse as a storyteller.At last, after three books of nothing but plots, within plots, within plots, wrapped in layers upon layers of intrigues, Herbert brings some much needed action back to the series.

[Nota Bene: As Frank Herbert's last two published novels in the Dune series, Heretics of Dune and Chapterhouse: Dune, along with the unwritten Dune 7, in fact comprise a single story that happened to be divided into three parts, I'll post the same review for both of the two published volumes.
But I think what Herbert was getting at was that as he matured as a writer he came to see, as many writers do, that plot per se is less interesting than character, no matter how many car chases or lasgun exchanges are involved.I for one can't separate a reading of the last books of the Dune series from knowledge of what was going on in Herbert's life as he wrote them, which he did, by that way, at an absolutely furious pace.
Heretics of Dune however is a big return to form, with lots of action and different character focus, combined with the mysticism, religion and philosophical discourse that characterises this whole series of novels.
This is why I gave this top marks, as it is a page turner and, like the other four books, makes you think about things.The setting this time is one thousand years after Leto II's death which would be nearly five thousand years after the original trilogy- I mean, Frank Herbert was certainly not conservative with dating his fiction was he?
Finally!
I haver been dreading reading this book for ever so long, and now the alarm bells seem to have been superfluous.
Lulled into a false sense of doom and with jangling nerves fostered by the utter metaphysical crap that were the second, third and fourth books of the Dune series, and God Emperor of Dune was singularly mind-numbing, this gave my jangling nerves rest.What's different?
Well, there's still a lot of obscure talk, but some of it finally is relieved with some actual ACTION!
And we actually get to get OFF Dune the Planet for a change.
4.5 to 5.0 stars. Another superb installment in one of the best science fiction series of all time. The universe that Herbert created for the Dune series is as good as it gets and his writing and story telling are amazing. HIGHEST POSSIBLE RECOMMENDATION!!!!
Buddy Read with Markus Hey old worm, was this your design? Soooooo much better than the last book.
Or, more accurately, an evolution -- consequence -- of the cycle identified in Dune.
I enjoyed Heretics of Dune far more than God Emperor, although God Emperor was a necessary bridge between Dune, Dune Messiah, and Children of Dune, and Heretics, as well as Heretic's sister novel, Chapterhouse Dune.
Several of the characters are fantastic, in particular Miles Teg, who provides a necessary balance (oddly enough, given the typical focus on men in scientific novels) to the otherwise heavy focus on woman characters.
Perhaps Herbert simply took it as a given, a strong thread persistent and present in Dune that must continue.
Regardless, a fantastic book, one that led me inexorably towards Chapterhouse.
There are indeed strong links to the previous Dune books and characters and history.As always Frank Herbert does seems to really instill a sense of beauty and at the same time mystery in his writing.
And of all the actors in the Dune books I have always had a very strong liking for the Sisterhood since they like Paul & Leto have a larger agenda than most other characters.
He once again creates an exciting new world but yet recognisable from his earlier Duneworlds.The one thing that I have against the last two Dune novels in this trilogy is that having read them quite a few times he left us on a beautiful cliffhanger and then died.
First thing let me say that I've read this book three times over the years and in my opinion Heretics of Dune is one of the best books in the saga, up to par with the first one.
While the previous book, God-Emperor was quite philosophical heavy and some might say action-less, the fifth book is nothing like that and returns to original form, with lots of action, different character focus, various plots, combined with the mysticism, religion and philosophical discourse we were used to.
The events in the book are some thousand years after the death of Leto II and this time the main focus of the book is on the Bene Gesserit.
A major event in the Dune universe. A plot brilliantly set and written by Frank Herbert.
For being such a 'hated' bloodline, the various Guilds were more than happy to incorporate it into their respective members because of the 'unique genetic properties and abilities' it provided the Guilds (hide spoiler)].I found myself having strong negative emotions about the Bene Gesserit and hoping they would all die.
A part of me wanted to say, "Seriously, though, if the various Guilds and Duncan Idaho had not been in this book, I would never have tied it into the first four books of Dune had it not had the title it had" when I realized that was not quite a true statement.
At first, it seems to be the Bene Gesserit institution as a whole, but the focus switches several times throughout, leaving the reader without a clear reason to follow any of the characters.
While this theme has been present throughout all of the series, it has mainly remained in the background, with Herbert simply informing the reader that the Bene Gesserit has a breeding plan.
The effect is one that is just weird, which I'm sure is not what Herbert was going for.In the end, rather than keeping up the exciting pace found in the beginning, the novel seems to drag on for just a bit too long, as all of the books in the series do.
I first read this book before any of the earlier books in the Dune series by Frank Herbert.
However more importantly this book touches on the complex socioeconomic dynamics of culture showing how the masses are manipulated by military leaders and politicians through the usage of sex, ideology, violence, and religion.
It essentially demonstrates Frank Herbert's incredible mastery of human psychology/sociology from a multi-cultural viewpoint along with his mastery of Judeo-Christian theology that echoes into our own times long after his death with a clear understanding of what makes Islamic Jihadists tick in their single-minded pursuit of holy war.
The story begins some 1500 years after the death of Leto II from God Emperor of Dune and brings us up to speed on what happened in the aftermath of his death and the following power vacuum.
A major threat to universal stability has emerged, and at the end of this book, it's no guarantee that the forces of good will win.
Much like The Empire Strikes Back, this middle of the second trilogy of Dune book ends with the good guys on the ropes and the future uncertain.
I had read the first three Dune books many, many times, and the fourth one once, and decided I may as well try to get through the last two.
It's not on par with the early ones in terms of depth, but the universe remains fascinating and it's a pretty decent story.(I also understand God Emperor much better now - it's not exactly a novel in itself, it's a bridge between the familiar Empire setting of Dune and this drastically different political and social setting of the later books.
It's starting to feel a little bit like a Mexican soap opera with so many things going on, and these guys plotting against these guys, but then these other guys are onto it, or are they, and some other guys suddenly get into the picture and it just becomes one huge clusterfuck that gets more and more complicated as we go along.
And what happens is you kind of forget what the point of all this is.However, there are too many positives in this novel for me to dislike it.
There are some brilliant characters and some truly gripping and intelligent events that make you forgive whichever silly inconsistencies or unclarities happen to be interwoven in the story.
Gözleri açılsaydı sadakatini koruyabilir miydi?Teg başını salladı. O subayın pek bir seçim şansı yoktu. hiç birinin dövüşmek ve ölmekten başka bir seçim şansı yoktu.Evet, doğru, diye düşündü Teg o zaman; savaşları düzenleme işi büyük kitlelerin gözlerini bağlamayı da kapsardı. Şerefli Anaların anlayışlarına düşmek ne kadar da kolaydı.Pislik!İnsanların gözünü bağlamak bazılarının sandığı kadar zor değildi. insanların çoğu güdülmek isterdi. O subay da bunu istiyordu. Bunu açıklayacak, derinden gelen bazı kabilesel içgüdüler (güçlü bilinçsiz dürtüler) vardı. Ne kadar kolayca güdüldüğünüzü görmeye başladığınızda doğal tepkiniz günah keçileri aramak olurdu. O subay bir günah keçisi istiyordu şimdi.
It took a while, probably the first 150 pages, before this book became an exhilarating, edge of my seat, terrifying experience.
Everything in the Dune universe is so extraordinarily deadly or coldly calculating.
I really enjoyed the perspective of the Bene Gesserit, and felt like this book explained a lot of the ‘Golden Path’ that was thoroughly confusing and vaguely alluded to in the previous installment.
In hindsight, I can appreciate God Emperor of Dune (book four) more now.And the ending!
I can’t believe the ending!
And what an ending...
can’t wait to start the last book.
Now, a thousand years later, these "Lost Ones" are returning, and it upsets the balance of power that has reigned in the galaxy for thousands of years.I loved Dune and I liked Messiah and Children well enough, but God Emperor came very close to making me give up on the series.
It was so terrible, with so many juvenile ideas about power, women, and psychology - all passed off as the wise words of a four thousand year old being - that I just couldn't fathom subjecting myself to that again.But I'd already bought the last two books, so what could I do?Other reviewers have written that God Emperor is the low point in the series, and I have to agree.
As the original series approaches its end, Herbert manages to keep the subject matter fresh and the reader guessing as to what will come next. Heretics of Dune does a great job of fleshing out many centuries between itself and the preceding story, without sacrificing any of the heady themes that are the series' hallmark. Highly recommend it to fans of the series, but I would be remiss to recommend it to newcomers who have not read the preceding books (they will truly be the Lost Ones).
The fifth book in Frank Herbert's classic Dune series maintains the story well.
Heretics of Dune clearly shows that Herbert's abilities were not flagging as he carried on the series; the one weakness that the book can be charged with is that it is clearly not complete in itself, but rather obviously a "middle" episode in an ongoing saga.
Heretics has much of the depth of thought, characterization, and dazzling intellectual intricacy of the previous books in the series.
It's our misfortune that he died before being able to finish unfolding his great story.Speaking of which, if you have any respect for Frank Herbert's works, avoid anything written by his idiot son Brian as you would the plague!
