https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/17908462-takedown-twenty
After Reading:The only reason I gave this book two stars instead of one was because there was a giraffe in it.
Giraffes are my favorite animals and therefore a star is earned.
The book itself?
Stephanie cannot choose between Ranger or Morelli.
Stephanie has klutzy moments and bad things happen to her.
Stephanie nearly gets killed.
Stephanie gets the eye on her again.
Basically if you read books 1-19 you know what happens in this book.
Different murder scenario, different killer, Stephanie somehow saves the day and there is a giraffe and bingo.
I'm so disappointed in where the Plum series has gone.
How many times is Stephanie's car going to break down or get shot at?
How many times is Stephanie going to get the eye?
In this book Stephanie even said "we've done this before." It's become repetitive and is no longer entertaining.
I'm also disappointed in who Stephanie is as a character.
I will not waste the obscene amount of money it costs to read a Plum novel again.
I'm disappointed that they have gone on far to long with no character or story development just the same scenarios over and over again.
In Janet Evanovich's latest installment (for me, I'm behind a few books) -- #20, Takedown Twenty, here's what you need to know: (a) a giraffe is wandering around Trenton, NJ, (b) a sicko is strangling elderly women, (c) you get attacked if you attend BINGO, (d) Stephanie's guaranteed to be shot at nearly 10 times and her car stolen at least a handful more, and (e) you'll want to kick Evanovich's butt if she doesn't give us another hot Ranger / Stephanie sex scene.
Her car was stolen 4 times if I counted properly.
Some say this book was predictable and they tired of the same thing.
I understand however I still love these books.
Let Joe see he should include her things.
In 20 they are together and has a family game night and Stephanie comes over, and he's like oh didn't think you would want to come, hell he going to family dinner with her all the time and he doesn't extend the invite at all, that's crap.
I think it's time Stephanie meets Rangers mother.
It's time for them to get together, especially after the bridge incident, Ranger does not just want sex.
After reading the first two chapters today, I think I am done with the series.
Spoilers::: It picks up the day after book 19 ends.
In 19 Steph had 2 huge bonds with what the totals should have been She should have $$$$$ yet she is driving a POS rusted out white taurus.
Morelli was shot in the last book and is back to work the next day,.
OH and there is a Giraffe running around Trenton.
Really enough with the stupid animals in the books too..
As much as it pains me to admit it, I'm breaking up with Morelli and Ranger.
While I love them both, I can no longer go on reading this garbage being thrown at us by Janet Evanovich.
I'm not sure if she's going senile or if she's having someone else write these books, but the last 4 books have been complete garbage, and this one is no exception.
There is a giraffe on the loose in Trenton, New Jersey.
A giraffe.
There were no laughs, Grandma Mozur was more creepy than funny and Stephanie still can't make a decision about her love life.
I really hope they don't change Loreli King as the narrator in the audio. She has truly defined these characters through her narration.
I've seen reviews that felt the same was true for this one, but I saw subtle things that made me feel like Janet Evanovich is finally moving things forward in some small way.The men:This is one of the largest areas of frustration for a lot of readers.
In this book I saw a lot less of Stephanie resisting Ranger and a lot more of her wanting him while situations kept then apart.
I think Ranger sees it much the same way.In this book I finally saw Ranger acknowledging the potential of being in a relationship, even while brushing it off.
The thing about having a love triangle for 20 books is that people are pretty firmly planted on one team by now.
This makes the book reading experience something along the lines of:Reading along...
where's my book boyfriend?Book boyfriend makes appearance...
Now, I'm going to analyze it and think of all the reasons she should pick him.
Look at him acting like an ass and thinking he's all that.
What a dick!Unresolved triangle continues on....
I swear, if she doesn't pick my guy I'm going to freak out and start hurting people!!Yeah, so that's my review.
Go Team Ranger!
If you have read the last 6-7 books in the series, then you don't need to waste your time.
This series stopped being funny around book 13; why did I even bother?
Seriously, how can you word the same descriptions and scenarios differently after 20 books...the answer: You can't; and Evanovich doesn't.
Time to really shake things up with this series or retire it.
I believe at this point I could give the "plot line" to my Saint Bernard and he could write a more entertaining book.
Seriously, is she even writing these?
Now that I'm on the road a lot, I've become a big fan of audiobooks. But I'm a little like Goldilocks with my set of requirements, nothing too complicated, nothing too deep. The Stephanie Plum series is the perfect mindless, fun entertainment for a long car ride. I've only read about  dozen and this is the first I've listened to. They're formulaic in the extreme. Each book has the same themes - Stephanie as a lousy bail bondsman, Lula as a comic foil, sexual tension with Ranger and inability to
Now that I'm on the road a lot, I've become a big fan of audiobooks.
The Stephanie Plum series is the perfect mindless, fun entertainment for a long car ride.
Each book has the same themes - Stephanie as a lousy bail bondsman, Lula as a comic foil, sexual tension with Ranger and inability to commit with Morelli.
They are the empty calories of the book world.
But as long as you don't make a steady diet of them, they are enjoyable and good fun.
The narrator does a good job here, other than her voice for Ranger sounding Russian to me.
I thought it was lousy.
I can't put it any clearer than that.
Morelli and Ranger were cardboard cutouts, spouting their predictable lines, and Stephanie just seemed to be going through the motions.
Completely unbelievable, no character depth whatsoever.
I want the old days, when the characters were fleshed out and three dimensional.
This whole triangle thing has gone on so long that it's tired and weak.
Nobody would have stuck around as part of this triangle for this long, and no guy is going to foist his girlfriend off on the competition, as Morelli keeps doing.
As the last few books seem to either; a) have been written by someone else, b) called in from vacation, or c) copy and pasted parts from other books in the series.(view spoiler)[ Storyline: big local mobster, who just happens to be boyfriend and a detective cop Joe Morelli's real life godfather and nephew of his crazy grandmother Bella's nephew, has a Failed to Appear (FTA) on him and Stephanie is suppose to pick him up to save the bond.
This just gets crazier and crazier with every book. What now, you ask? THERE'S A FREAKING GIRAFFE ON THE LOOSE IN TRENTON!Say whaa?Weird thing is, people of Trenton are not talking about it. It's like that big proverbial elephant in the room (elephants/giraffes, whatever), everybody knows it's there and everybody ignores it. "You don't seem to be very disturbed by it all.""I have people trying to kill me. A giraffe is low on my list of disturbances.""That's where we differ," Ranger said. "I'm us
It's like that big proverbial elephant in the room (elephants/giraffes, whatever), everybody knows it's there and everybody ignores it.
"You don't seem to be very disturbed by it all.""I have people trying to kill me.
A giraffe is low on my list of disturbances.""That's where we differ," Ranger said.
"I'm used to people trying to kill me, but it's not every day I'm almost run over by a giraffe."
In this book we've seen what Morelli's idillic family life looks like and I just don't see Steph fitting happily into that picture.
He never even tries to keep his crazy Grandma from trying to hurt her.
His baggage makes hers look like a carry-on.
She has a job he doesn't like, he has a past that involves almost every woman she knows.
Right now I like Ranger much better.Reread June 2016.
P.S. Please put the watch that Ranger gave you back on.Reread June 2018 — now that I have read this a few times I wonder at how long it took for us (the characters and myself) to figure out who the killer was.
Also Grandma Bella is evil!
In this 20th book in the 'Stephanie Plum' series, bounty hunter Stephanie Plum is helping hunt down a killer.
All the books in the series can be read as standalones.*****Stephanie Plum is trying to accomplish two goals: nab the mobster "Uncle Sunny" for skipping out on his bail and help Ranger find out who's killing elderly women and throwing them in dumpsters.
Stephanie can't go a couple of days without starting a fire, getting some cars wrecked, and having killers pursue her.
And Lula is in fine form as she pursues her goal of acquiring a genuine designer handbag.
Can't wait to read this rehash of the previous stories with only minor details changed and a slightly more obvious leaning toward Morelli as Stephanie's HEA. Sarcasm aside, I will be reading this and I doubt I will be disappointed with the expectations I have for this installment.ETA: Yeah, I totally called it.
As an aspiring crime author, I cannot begin to imagine what Ms Evanovich thinks of her readers.
Where did the story line about Morellis grandmas curse peter out to?
The giraffe no-one sees or cares about...casually explained away in a few lines at the end of the book?Here's the thing, we are supposed to buy this character as a klutzy loveable and harumph mostly successful bounty hunter, but we never get anything that redeems her.
Find all of my reviews at: http://52bookminimum.blogspot.com/Seriously? A synopsis? It’s the 20th book in the series. You know what it's about. The only difference is this one has a character we haven’t seen before . . .  Einstein once said insanity is doing the same thing over and over again and expecting different results. After the twentieth edition of Stephanie Plum getting kidnapped, shot at, blown up (for some reason that doesn’t happen this time around), burned up, broken down and busted
After the twentieth edition of Stephanie Plum getting kidnapped, shot at, blown up (for some reason that doesn’t happen this time around), burned up, broken down and busted in one way, shape or form – as well as the twentieth time I sat down and read all of the aforementioned misadventures, I figure we are both insane.What can I say about book #20.
(Seriously - One for the Money originally came out TWENTY years ago.) Twenty years of our indecisive little Stephanie bumbling around with skips and bumbling around trying to figure out if Ranger or Joe is the man for her.
This is one of the best books out of the Plum series.
No, Stephanie is still looking for some unlawful soul that missed court that ends up being way more than she bargained for.
If you are wanting a new story line for this series then you should probably stop at book 3 or so.
I love Evanovich's writing and I love the story and I love the comfy, happy feeling these books give me.
I hope that this series last forever because I have yet to find another series to replace the feelings I get when I listen the Stephanie and Lula spin their tales.
I would have probably gone two stars, but I feel the need to offset the 4 and 5 star ratings this book is getting.
I liked this book better the first time I read it...as Three To Get Deadly!
In this book, Stephanie is trying to apprehend Uncle Sunny, Joe's Godfather, and someone so beloved by people that no one wants to help her and everyone is mad at her?
If JE is just going to continue to recycle stories from her better, earlier books, then just end the series.
So, if you're in a Plum mood, go back to the beginning and read the earlier ones.
I'm a big Stephanie Plum fan, but if you read my review for Notorious Nineteen then you know I was not thrilled with the direction that book was taking Stephanie, Lula, and her mom.
Unlike Notorious Nineteen, I didn't feel that Stephanie came across as slutty nor did I feel the sexual references were out of character and too raunchy for the series.
As much as I love the series, it's time to retire Ranger, Morelli, Stephanie, and Lula.
I can't imagine my life without the yearly dose of Trenton, New Jersey, but I'd like to think the author will offer me a new series to enjoy.

I think I'm done with Janet Evanovich. At least until she wises up and realizes that her characters need to GROW. Every book is *exactly* like the one before, and by book twenty, those same old jokes aren't funny anymore.
I wasn't happy with the previous few--Stephanie's adventures were getting far too ridiculous (remember One for the Money?
I'm glad I did give in, though, because Takedown Twenty is closer to what I want from a Stephanie Plum novel.
The plot is relatively tight, I could remember who all the secondary characters were, the villain wasn't too ridiculous to be taken seriously, the writing is a definite improvement, and I even enjoyed Kevin the disappearing giraffe.
Stephanie's misadventures in this one are zany without veering into the annoying outlandishness of some of the previous offerings.
While the books are usually predictable (Stephanie gets into trouble, fights her hormones and struggles to choose between Joe and Ranger, screws a case up royally, almost dies but gets lucky, grandma ends up the biggest badass of the bunch), it's a major reason of why I continue to read the series.
(Literally, someone tells her...no discovery, no close calls)-Characters had no depth, it felt as if the book was just going through the motions.-Not only is there zero romance, save for a kiss or two, it feels like both men have zero interest in Stephanie anymoreWhat I did enjoy:-I thought the elusive giraffe was fun.-Lula never fails to disappoint.-Grandma Mazur is still a little spitfire.The redeeming quality of this book was the narrator, Lorelei King.
These books are still fun to read, but this far into the series, it must be getting hard for Evanovich to come up with new scenarios. They seem to be ever more bizarre and outrageous to keep readers from thinking "been there, done that." Lula's conversation is repetitive and Grandma Mazur is becoming little too over-the-top for me.
Story is no longer funny like previous versions. It's just become tired, boring, and repetitive. I think I'm done with Stephanie Plum even though it was my all time favorite. Sick of the which man should I choose rhetoric. Grow up & pick one already. The Giraffe thing was just plan stupid all together. Yep, DONE!
She needs to stop.
I know the love triangle in this series is so overused and so..well, should be done and over with already but, I can't help it, I still adore this series.
It is just so much fun and never ceases to put me in a good mood and have me laughing out loud and shaking my head throughout the whole story.
I just love all the hi jinks that Stephanie and even Lula get themselves in.
Plus, I love so many of the side characters like Grandma M, Ranger and Morelli.
Love triangle or not, I will read these until the author stops writing them.
