https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/24911006-missoula
I followed a number of the cases the author writes about but I didn't know the extent to which law enforcement failed the rape victims at the University of Montana.
Most people know that it is hard to prosecute in rape cases (the ol' "he said/she said", etc.), but what is especially astounding here is how much evidence was ignored by detectives and how interviews were conducted that assumed blame toward the victim and innocence toward the accused.
Krakauer draws directly from interview transcripts to show how reluctant police were to prosecute accused rapists, even when they actually did have a good amount of evidence against them.
Rape in unique. No other crime is so fraught with controversy, so enmeshed in dispute and in the politics of gender and sexuality.This book is not an easy read. It is however a book that should be read. It really should be required reading in high school and early college years. Not just for the boys either. Girls need this book too.I wish I could do this book justice in a review. I just don't think I can encompass it well enough. Just read this book people. Even if you hate the way Jon Krakaue
Even if you hate the way Jon Krakauer writes it still has a message that needs to be read.Krakauer focuses on the Missoula area, that does not mean that these stories are limited to that area.
Does that mean that when they said no that their NO wasn't as valid as that woman on the street being jumped by that unknown guy that is raping her?
HOW DO WE STOP THIS????Changes need to be made so that when a female or male comes forward with a rape claim that they aren't treated like crap.
We need to change the fact that most rapes don't even get reported.
It will be sure to count against you as you will be drawing attention to yourself but you won't be able to be accused of wearing inappropriate clothes that give men the wrong idea.5.
Well, to lie there and let the guy rape you and in the future instead of speaking to him, just nod politely if he says hi (he won't think he's done anything wrong, he only had sex with you when you didn't really want it, right?) and be on your way.
It seems that they, and quite a lot of policemen think that if an accusation of rape can't be taken to court, then that 'proves' the woman must be lying.
The first half of the book is much stronger.
The second half is basically court transcripts.
At the very end Krakauer is also like, "I had no idea it was this bad and that so many women were raped and now I know," and it was kind of strange but I guess it was also honest.
What really struck me in this book is how it stated what so many of us already know--there is little justice to be found where rape is concerned and we have a A LOT of work yet to do.
I will read anything Krakauer writes. This book, in particular, is both powerful and necessary. As he writes: "rather than being the nation's rape capital, Missoula had an incidence of sexual assault [in 2010] that was in fact slightly less than the national average. That's the real scandal."
What I love most about his writing is the way that he uses very specific narratives to talk about, and to illustrate, a much broader point.
For MISSOULA, the objective seemed clear enough: by telling the tale of 2-3 women who were victims of sexual assault, he'd talk more broadly about how the justice system is broken.And in some ways, Krakauer pulls this off.
Krakauer is wise to pull much of his quotes from Judith Herman's excellent TRAUMA AND RECOVERY.
I hope that people read the book and are inspired to check out TRAUMA AND RECOVERY.
This is a painful, frustrating, teeth-grinding, angst-inducing, trigger-filled must read.For those who think Krakauer is picking on Missoula, or out to tarnish the image of a whole community, get over it and read the book. In the end he praises the University of Montana (where my daughter goes to school) for their improvements, he lauds the Missoula police, and highlights a weak spot for victims of sexual assault in the local justice system--the County Attorney's office. Will those in charge of prosecuting rapists actually improve their atrocious record of doing so? We can only hope.
Krakauer exposes a rape culture that resides in the University of Missoula, Montana.
Rape is the most under reported, prevalent violent crime against women and often committed by men whom they are acquainted with.
This looks at 3 specific cases where the accused are football players.
Krakauer debunks the rape myth that victims are drunk, promiscuous, or sending mixed messages.
I’d like to think that as my daughter prepares to embark on her university education in less than 12 months.
The reality is: rape is real and more prevalent in these communities where victims know their assailants.
In addition, it spotlights shortcomings in our criminal justice system that only exacerbate the torture and suffering these victims experience.As painful as this book is to read, though, I believe that it is one that everyone should read.
Of all the cases discussed in this book, the rapist was always considered a trusted friend by the victim.
This book did not focus on Missoula and the University of Montana because more rapes take place there than elsewhere.
*1 Star - The only thing that would improve this book is a good bonfire.
A powerful examination of the realities of rape on college campuses ( Missoula in this book), is just frickin TOO HIGH!!!!The stories in Missoula are gut wrenching...
If the 'big crimes' on college campuses of 'under-reporting' were stealing....
....So hopefully Jon Krakauer's book is making a difference for change....We need not only talk to our young daughters about rape- sexual assault, verbal pressures, problematic relationships or situations they may find themselves in...
Hopefully this book will be a contribution to all college campuses...
Better yet....may rape substantially decrease on all College campuses and for all women....men too.
Missoula: Rape and the Justice System in a College Town Jon Krakauer is an American writer best known for his writings about the outdoors"Missoula: Rape and the Justice System in a College Town'' is a brutally honest, absorbing piece of investigative journalism that chronicles several alleged cases of "non-stranger" rape that occurred in the college town of Missoula, Montana, between January 2008 and May 2012. While I found some of the book's descriptions of sexual assaults highly descriptive a
You can see how these condescending attitudes serve to perpetuate the stigma that surrounds women that come forward after being sexually assaulted.Both the Missoula Police Department and the Missoula Attorney's office mishandled so many rape cases that it prompted the Department of Justice (DOJ) to open an investigation, creating a legal and political and legal firestorm between the DOJ and local officials that lasted several years.Missoula recounts the stories of three main female characters, two of them were raped while they slept or were slipping in and out of consciousness.
, a book which everyone should read.I hope Missoula serves as a launching point for further, deeper discussions of sexual violence, gender, and toxic masculinity.
We should encourage conversation around deconstructing toxic masculinity instead of policing female behavior, by teaching men to act with compassion, not cruelty.
We need more feminists - those who understand and will not stand for rape culture - in the legal system, in universities, in everywhere, really.
We need to construct a culture that prevents sexual assault, by raising men who will not perpetuate the crimes of Missoula and universities nationwide.
Anyone (Kirsten Pabst) who wants to claim that this book provides a one-sided view of a complicated issue- well you can just go pound sand.
Although brutal to read and teeth-grindingly frustrating, Krakauer did an exemplary job of providing a balanced, albeit painful, account of the disgraceful situation existing in Missoula.
With Pabst now serving as Missoula County District Attorney, there is no way the ignorance and lack of compassion in that office is going to be remedied when you have the chief offender at the helm.
The truth always comes out and I am honored to be able to read the same from your pen.
(In fact, the fandom is so impassioned and their loyalty so blind and all-consuming that the town is lovingly dubbed “Grizzlyville.”) All rape victims--not just those in college--rarely see justice served, but Krakauer’s decision to home in specifically on college football–obsessed Missoula couldn’t have worked more perfectly to underscore a horrifying general truth.
Woe to the Missoula victim whose rapist happens to be a revered “Griz.” Krakauer presented staggering statistics that no doubt will enrage and stun most readers to the core and painted a damning portrait of the criminal justice system.
It must be stated that because Missoula addresses shortcomings in how the criminal justice system handles rape, it’s focused on a handful of victims.
“Rape is the most unreported serious crime in the nation.”Wow, the author’s note mentioned that some portions of this book would be hard to read, and I did find that to be the case.
Krakauer takes the high rate of reported sexual assaults in college towns, and hones in on the small college town of Missoula, Montana.
To the victims’ surprise, the allegations divide the town and many of the town folk take sides with the accused.Before any of the cases even make it to sentencing or trial, the victims are treated as perpetrators and/or culpable for their attacks by the police department.
Ultimately, charges were laid in relation to assaults on three women, and the trial has just finished this week.
While the trial was going on, I listened to the audio version of Missoula, in which Jon Krakauer focuses on a number sexual assault cases in Missoula, Montana.
In combination, this made for a pretty bleak picture of the challenges involved in seeking convictions in cases of non stranger sexual assault.
Much like the conduct of the Ghomeshi trial would be very discouraging -- even if he is ultimately found guilty.A note to potential readers: There are graphic descriptions of the assaults, but they are not extensive and they are limited to descriptions in fairly clinical terms.
I feel sheer revulsion for the fact that sexual assault in prisons has been accepted-not-accepted as some kind of just punishment, this apparently horrifyingly under-prevented tragedy which keeps on keeping on as a product of willful disregard at best.
I don't want anyone to be sexually assaulted, not even sexual predators.At the same time, when I hear about things like the Stanford case, my unmediated response is "Lock that monster up forever.
When a pack of football-playing wolves go hunting women like sport, drugging and raping them like the pieces of excrement in this book do just for a bit of fun on the weekend, for notches, for bro-points, it is something else entirely.

Early on in the book, Krakauer demonstrates that while the media afforded this specific location with a lot of attention, adding urgency in dealing with the cases (some of the time), the statistics in Missoula are not in any higher than anywhere else in the United States.
Here's another way to think about these numbers: When an individual is raped in this country, more than 90 percent of the time the rapist gets away with the crime."Unfortunately a look at the cases Krakauer focuses on demonstrates on why so many people do not report.
What an excruciating eye-opener! If you do not trust authorities now, reading this true account of the numerous unreported crimes and sexual assaults on a Missoula, Montana college campus will not improve your confidence.The statistics are baffling and the procedures deplorable not only for the University of Montana, but the Missoula Police Department and Missoula County Attorney's Office as well who all failed to do their jobs. It is a shame that politics and football games became the greater issue.Although sometimes repetitive, a very informative read!
Just saw this: Breaking News BAYLOR University lawsuit alleges during a 4 year period, 31 football players committed:* 52 acts of rape* 5 gang rapes* 2 or more gang rapes by 10 or more players at one timeread more here: http://www.dallasnews.com/news/baylor...MISSOULA: RAPE AND THE JUSTICE SYSTEM IN A COLLEGE TOWNBy John Krakauer***********FIRST: A "MUST READ" ARTICLE*********** Vanderbilt University football players video recorded themselves gang raping an unconscious female student: http://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/artic...Some quick stats and info on rape:* 1 in 4 women in college today are victims of rape * 90% of all college rapes are acquaintance rape, not stranger rape.* 96% of rapes are never reported * 97% of all rapists walk free, facing no consequences for the violent felony they committed.* The strongest predictor of future behavior is past behavior.
The scenarios discussed in this book were well researched.
If you are looking for a book that gives an unbiased view of all sides of the rape issue, this is not it; this definitely focuses on the victim and the tendency of the law and society to side with the attacker (I am not giving my opinion as to whether that is good or bad, it just is so I thought I would mention it).
For me, Krakauer has written some great books and some frustrating books.
This leans toward the frustrating side mainly because of the repetition of facts throughout the book.I would only recommend this book to people who are into non-fiction where lots of facts, figures, and research are cited.
JK takes a narrative look at the specifics (many times graphic) of several uncharged rape cases in Missoula, Montana, caused by the willful disregard by local law enforcement and public prosecutors of victims and their sexual assault allegations against male students (primarily athletes) at the University of Montana, who bungled and/or botched disciplinary actions against the accused.Convicted rapist: Grizzly running back Beau Donaldson pleaded guilty to rape in 2012 and was sentenced to 10 years in federal prisonThe first and last name of the public prosecutor, Kirsten Pabst, are now near "fighting words" to many feminists and rape victims' advocates.
This book follows three different cases in Missoula, all involving the city's god-like football team, and the women they raped.
What I liked most was the focus on how society often looks at the woman's actions.
I also liked how the woman's actions after a rape are scrutinized.
I think this book will help a lot of rape victims, as the shame felt after an assault (especially if drinking) is not the victim's.
I cannot remember the statistics now, but most rapes are committed by someone who is known and often trusted.
Also, the amount of rapes actually reported is minuscule.
I understand the need to put a national spotlight on acquaintance rape, the rape culture of colleges, the attitude of student athletes, and the unwillingness of many officials to hear women's voices.
Krakauer reinforced statistics about how many rapists are never held accountable (90%) and how many women actually do lie about being raped (less than 10%).
Even when the victim wasn't quite sure she had been raped, Krakauer completely sided with her.
He spoke with the victims but was, with one exception, unable to interview the rapists.
This book was rushed to publication after the Rolling Stone magazine messed up their rape story and is in dire need of editing.
You should read the book yourself.If you think women fabricate or exaggerate rape accusations for attention or because they regret their behavior, you need to read this book.
If you think the law enforcement and court systems in our country give rape victims anything even close to a decent opportunity for justice, you need to read this book.
If you think that you don't know or love anyone who has ever been a victim of rape or sexual assault by someone they know and trusted, you need to read this book - and then you need only to look around you.
Motivated by a close friend's acquaintance rape, Jon Krakauer's decidedly victim-centric account of a string of rapes at the University of Montana at Missoula in the late 2000s through 2013 is a compelling, well-researched look at the factors that comprised this "epidemic".
We learn that the rates of sexual assault and rape at U of Montana are not much different than other colleges and universities across the nation.
The matter is compounded in Missoula County by a systematic refusal from the attorney's office to prosecute sexual assaults/rapes for a "lack of evidence".
This is another message women get at a young age—we’ve all gotten long lists of things we should and shouldn’t do if we want to avoid being raped: Don’t talk to people you don’t know.
I’ve read several books about rape, many of which contain stories just as upsetting as the ones detailed here, but I don’t think any of them brought me to tears the way this one did.
If anyone can change the way we, as a culture, feel about rape and about women’s sexuality, it’s probably Jon Krakauer, so maybe this book is some kind of hopeful sign.
At times this was a difficult book to listen to.
No wonder so many rapes are not reported, most especially in towns or schools where sports are all they have and the accused are star athletes.
If not for that, she would have ended up like the other main victim in this story-badmouthed and avoided socially, while her rapist walked free.Contrary to popular opinion, not all rape claims are lies.
(I cannot even believe that some people argue that, knowing what these women have to go through.) This book is full of statistics and at times, the reading is a little dry.
Krakauer does describe the crimes in graphic detail, and the way the victims are treated afterwards is almost more upsetting in a lot of cases.
Fixing that will take education on the part of the public, law enforcement, and the criminal justice system.In what is probably the most thorough reporting job of his career, Krakauer documents the supposed rape problem in Missoula, Montana.
It is upsetting, rage-inducing stuff.I’ve had a hard time actually sitting down to write this review for a multitude of reasons, because the book was well-written, but it’s also so, so important.
