https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/475.Collapse
Needless to say, our own society's reluctance to invest more than a token amount of money in developing cheap solar power is different.
The two cases are in no way comparable.____________________________Just back from Australia, where I had several illuminating discussions with various people about solar energy.
The technology already exists to build cheap solar power stations.So why don't they do it?
Apparently, building the power stations in desert areas isn't economically viable unless national resources are diverted to connect them to the national grid.
This exhaustive study in Malthusian economics as applied to several societies in history that have failed, such as the Easter Islanders and Greenland Norse, details the thematic traits common to each example.
His chapter on Easter Island made me think of Thor Heyerdahl's work there.Most notably is how deforestation and imprudent population control applies to modern societies in trouble as well.
I find myself thinking about this work frequently, his ideas resonate with our times, mirroring as they do, and as he shows us, with failed societies of the past.
When I think about this book, I think about the Greenland Norse and the Polynesians.
The Pulitzer-prize winning "Guns, Germs and Steel" by this dude forever changed the way I look at history.
He goes at pain to explicate the archaeological evidence by which we understand the Anasazi collapse, but here too he gets a little repetitive and locquacious.
Were it not for his stellar writing skills this would have been even more of a chore to read.Apart from the lack of effective editing, Collapse suffers from Diamond's penchant to almost bend over backward to point out that he is not engaged in a crude form of "Environmental determinism" whereby the significance of cultural and political events are misleadingly downplayed.
Diamond looks in detail at the factors at play in the demise of civilizations in human history, using a wide range of examples.
He offers a framework in which to structure the analysis and looks in great detail at possible (and in many cases certain) reasons why various societies collapsed.
Clearly an analysis of why societies failed in the past, with particular attention to environmental issues, has direct relevance to our world today.
That has relevance to oil-dependant first world nations today, for example.
It was a long, slow read, but well worth the effort.
But don't let that put you off - once you put your brain into the right gear this book can be completely consuming and fascinating, and the message and lessons it gives are electrifying.Diamond examines in turn a number of societies, ancient and modern, successful or unsuccessful, and forensically examines what were the factors in their collapse or survival before turning to our modern, global society to ask what lessons we can apply from those past cases to the predicament we face today.
The halfway point review:One question I've been wrestling with as I read, as I watch these societies move slightly past sustainability, as I read about societal collapse and the squandering of resources by the wealthy and then the inevitable cannibalism that always seems to show up in the last act, I keep asking myself how the environment became a "political issue." There's no question that environmental resources aren't infinite, yet it seems like the majority of people…or at least the loudest faction…care less about human life on earth than their own comfort and status.
الانهيار كنت قد قرأت كتاب جاريد دايموند والذي حصل على جائزة البوليتزر (أسلحة، جراثيم وفولاذ) قبل سنوات، وأعجبت به كثيراً، كانت دراسة جريئة تحاول فهم الأسباب البيئية الكامنة وراء صعود حضارات معينة وتفوقها على حضارات أخرى.
في هذا الكتاب يعكس دايموند الوضع ويحاول دراسة كيف تتداعى حضارات معينة وتنهار بسبب تدميرها لبيئتها، وهو يعرض مجموعة متفرقة من الحضارات المعروفة أو المعزولة والتي مارست بلا وعي تدميراً واسعاً لبيئتها ووصلت في النهاية إلى انهيار سريع لحضارتها، كما يعرض في المقابل حضارات تنبهت لتدهور البيئة فقامت بإجراءات ناجحة للحفاظ عليها واستدامتها واستطاعت البقاء في بيئات فقيرة جداً.
كلا كتابي دايموند واجبي القراءة لكل مهتم بالتاريخ والبيئة والعلم، فدايموند يقدم هذا كله بأسلوب جميل جداً وممتع.
For example, many forests (Diamond refers to Montana, but I've read about this dynamic elsewhere) have been developed as cottage areas, so we do not allow fires or any logging.
If there is a "spirit" of a society that is translated in its literature, then I think it's safe to say that the bearded guy holding a "the end is nigh" sign is finally getting the mainstream audience he dreamed of.It seems to me the real problem is that it is very difficult to minimize our impact on the environment.
GG&S also overlooked a lot of crops available to people he strenuously argued had nothing to eat - for example, Acai in the Amazon Basin (a superfood which constitutes 45% of the diet of some locals) and others elsewhere.In Collapse, Diamond examines how several ancient societies (Easter Island, Mangareva/Pitcairn Lapita, Maya, the Norse colonies in Iceland, Greenland, and Vinland) fell apart due to resource management issues, the environmental challenges faced by a few modern countries (Australia, Japan, China), and the best ways to avoid a tragedy of the commons-type situation that results in a drastically reduced standard of living for everyone.
Given the interwoven nature of the global economy, intricate complexity of our systems, and rates of environmental destruction and pressures we are applying on environment Diamond readily admits we are facing huge, potentially civilization changing downshifts.
I do think tech and innovation can be tools to help us, but they all have various externalities and can cause new problems of their own, plus in regards to environment, since the systems are all so interconnected you destroy or damage one aspect it can lead to a grand cascade.
Diamond also points out another argument people use to justify environmental destruction: well the environment is a luxury and we need to do everything we can for our economy (which includes destroying the environment).
I had been to Copan in Honduras years ago, but was reminded of the great glory of this civilization, and the controversial collapse that happened to disperse people from these great structures around 900 AD.I love Guns Germs and Steel more than anything, it changed how I look at history and people and society, so I dug into this one, particularly the Mayan part, with great excitement.
Basically an extension of Guns Germs and Steel.
This is NOT a book trying to convince you to care about the environment, it's a survey of lost civilizations and how they collapsed.
If he wants those children not to struggle with poverty and a declining society and standard of living, he should further care about many other aspects of the environment.The biggies throughout history that have played a primary role in virtually every societal collapse are deforestation and soil erosion and/or salinization.
To that we add a host of other common problems that can and must be solved, including habitat loss, water management and pollution, greenhouse gasses, resource over-exploitation, and energy supply.Diamond goes deeper than simply blaming corporations for their destructive practices.
It will certainly have a major impact on California, too.Perhaps my favorite portion of the book were Chapters 14 and 15, in which Diamond explores societal responses to these threats.Chapter 14 is titled “Why Do Some Societies Make Disastrous Decisions?” and begins with a tidy discussion of decision theory and cognitive biases.
It would have been best left to personalize and clarify a concluding chapter, perhaps, although the chapter on Australia did a more than adequate job of showing how pressing the threats of collapse can be in a modern first-world society.In the end, while this book was adequately absorbing, it didn’t bring me much closer to my quest.
The esteemed Jared Diamond, author of one of the most insightful and profound books of the previous decade: Guns Germs and Steel, tried to break the wave of his success on Collapse, a book about the failure of societies due to a laundry-list of (mostly environmental) issues.
It’s too soon to render a verdict on the bearded Professor (unlike Paul Ehrlich and Rachel Carson) since he wisely chose topics which cannot be gauged within a human lifetime but the book itself was a real steaming pile of environmental compost.
I can’t resist quoting Fred L.
Then set him out barefoot on the New Guinea lowlands about which he can’t seem to shut the flock up.
Onvan : Collapse: How Societies Choose to Fail or Succeed - Nevisande : Jared Diamond - ISBN : 143036556 - ISBN13 : 9780143036555 - Dar 608 Safhe - Saal e Chap : 2004
In a separate chapter on the latter he identifies reasons for inadequate responses as: failure to anticipate a problem (either because it had not happened before – or particularly in pre-literate societies because they have forgotten past occurrences, or because of misapplying analogies e.g. something that worked in a different situation); failure to perceive a problem has arisen (e.g. hidden problems or creeping issues – slow trends masked by fluctuations); irrational reactions even though a problem has been identified (groupthink, tragedy of the commons, clashes if interest, clinging to values which are no longer helpful).Opening chapter is Diamond’s comments on the environmental problems in his own area of Montana – although I could understand that the point of this chapter was to place historical issues in modern terms I actually found little identification with this chapter.
The recent actions of the American government (Pulling out of the Paris climate pact and increasing coal minning and other environment unfriendly activities) give this book increased importance.
He doesn't resort to the typical guilting or fear tactics that so many environmentalists use to force their opinion on their readers.
Diamond uses a straight-forward approach that allows the reader to draw their own conclusions.
Diamond writes this book like he would deliver a lecture.
I resorted to skip-reading through the chapter-end summaries about half the way through this lengthy book.
I found the ending chapters mostly redundant also, because I had already understood the similarities between our cultures and the ancient or troubled ones.
However, in spite of the redundant-tendencies, I would recommend this book because of the wealth of information it contains.
This would have been a better book at about half the length.
The ultimate point of Collapse is of course to highlight the parallels with our own society and perhaps provide a sort of roadmap for the future.
Collapse was written before our own latest financial “collapse” in 2008.
It would have been interesting to know what Diamond’s thoughts about that were, and I had hoped the epilogue written in that year might have addressed that.
But no, the extra pages about Angkor Wat really adds nothing to the book.
From now on, every fledgling civilization should be issued with a little pamphlet outlining the dangers of deforestation.
On the cover, there'd be a picture of a toppled Easter Island statue, with the caption, "Learn from our mistakes: if you chop down all your trees, your society will expire in an orgy of cannibalism.
Also, you might want to go easy on the monoliths."Collapse is a sobering book, but I'm just jaded enough that after about the tenth analysis of pollen readings from core samples, I was like, "Come on, Jared.
Get to the part where they eat each other." And that was before he launched into a detailed discussion of Japanese forestry policy in the Tokugawa era.
If you care about the world and the survival of the human race, then you must read this book. Period. Buy it now. It will teach you more than you ever thought possible in one book. You will look at the world differently. It will expand your mind.- LiloAuthor of The Light Who ShinesAnd just to be technically correct, this is not a review. It is a recommendation.
As someone trained in geography, Diamond focuses more on the environmental side of things, but he's certainly not dismissive of the other two factors (and in fact goes to some length to discuss the political and technological factors where he thinks they are relevant).The book covers (in great detail) a number of societies that have collapsed, in particular Easter Island's and the Norse Greenland colony.
Generally, Collapse lacks the consistency of Diamond's most well known book, Guns, Germs and Steel.
Where Guns, Germs and Steel is nearly intuitive in the simpleness but universal applicability of its principles, Collapse is episodic and fractured.
Modern examples of collapses include Rwanda and Haiti.The book started boring me towards the end, when Diamond stops telling the story of particular societies and begins to expound at length about the principles that unite these examples.
If you are someone who cannot stop reading a book once you get into it, you should probably avoid Collapse, as it will trap you.
And he gets a lot wrong, at least on the things I know something about (Easter Island, for example, where his Collapse hypothesis is generally regarded by people who actually study the island's history and prehistory as wildly off-base and unsupported by evidence).
This book was clearly written by someone who had a theory (Collapse) and went looking for evidence to justify it.
Seriously, it's almost impossible to distinguish between the assertions that are supported by evidence and accepted by experts and those that are just Jared Diamond's speculation.
Unfortunately, this hit the bestseller list and lots of his speculation became accepted by intelligent people who don't happen to be experts.
I listened to the abridged audio version of this book.
I wanted to listen to the full-length audio version, but I can't stand that reader's style.
You'd have to put a firecracker up his nose to get him to put any inflection in his voice.
(Don't forget to light the firecracker.
So the things that were new to me were of course the most interesting.
The section about Greenland was also new to me, and so telling about prejudices.
Before delving into the book, I wondered about the use of the word "choose" in the title.
I did read at least half of this book.
The section on Easter Island is one of the most memorable things I've read in the past few years, and I'd recommend it to anyone.This book goes on my guilt shelf because shortly after he got to China, I got too depressed to continue.
So Collapse is sitting on my real-life, non-virtual bookshelf with a JetBlue boaring pass marking my place, frozen in time like the artifact of some extinct civilization.If I were really to make a comprehensive shelf of Books I Feel Like a Lazy Jerk for Not Having Read, Guns, Germs and Steel would also be on it.
Extraordinary in scope. Makes the news far more interesting even than it already was. However, I withhold star 5 because someone should have run the manuscript by me. Many awkward sentences. Too many sentences that aren't, quite. Or that aren't by a long shot. Penguin? Editors? Anyone? Such a noble and otherwise impressive undertaking deserves better care before reaching the public. But yes. A grand and very fine book indeed.
A fascinating look at how different societies have failed, I read this many years ago, but just noticed that Jared Diamond has a new book coming out which reminded me. Years later and I still think of some of the examples from time to time. While this is not a quick or easy read, it was so compelling I never put it down for very long.
This book was written in 2006, 12 years ago (2018), so I thought I would investigate some of the issues Diamond mentions to see if things have improved, if measures are being taken to prevent our own planet-wide collapse.From coral bleaching, world population increase, soil erosion and salinization, ground water depletion, deforestation and on through to CO2 reduction to address global warming I found little ground for optimism; all of these problems continue to increase driven by human demand.We may not pull through despite knowing what is happening, but we definitely won't if we are ignorant, as is the American president.
Interestingly, the book begins with an area of particular interest to Jared Diamond & his family, Montana, and a consideration of how wealthy folks buying 3rd or 4th homes in that state, so-called "trophy or investment homes" that are seldom visited, together with large-scale mining interests bringing destructive side-effects such as toxic waste have changed the character of the western state.To be sure, there is ambiguity in the manner in which the author portrays specific declines but his investigation of cultures under stress & the decisions each makes or fails to make seem in each case quite interesting, even if not always completely captivating.
