https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/107774.Honor_s_Splendour
I highly recommend this audio.****Where's my gallant hero when I need him...This was a re-read of one of my favourite Julie Garwood historical romances.Whenever I think of this story I always remember it for the beautiful beginning when the heroine warms the feet of the hero.Julie Garwood's stories make me want to step back in time to meet a gallant hero who will lift me on to his horse, tuck my head under his chin and protect me from all dangers.This story is about a woman who has lived a life of fear from her abusive brother.
I have to say, I have yet to read a Julie Garwood novel that I don't love, but there was something special about Honor's Splendour that makes it stand out in my mind and has made it one of my favorite reads.Garwood's books feature women who, though they might not know it at the time, are strong, honorable, compassionate and very wise.
Now to Honor's Splendour.Seeking revenge, Baron Duncan of Wexton sets out to kidnap Madelyne, the sister of Baron Louddon, the man responsible for the brutal attack on Duncan's sister, Adela.
How ever good the stroy was, how great the characters were, the best thing in this whole book was the writing.
Madelyne (the sister of his enemy) plans to escape her brother, and save the poor warrior from certain death.
Even though I doubt that ladies behaved like that in those times, it was great to read :) She has a fierce temper, and is not affraid to stand up to Duncan, when even his soldiers would cower in fear of him.
He did force her to marry him, but it was for her protection - among other reasons, like his yet-unprofessed love for her and his desire do bed her ;) - and he never meant to hurt or harm her in any way.Honor's Splendour was all about Duncan and Madelyne realizing they were made for each other and, as a bonus, making Louddon pay for his sins.
I loved the way Ducan explained to himself why he felt compelled to sneak into Madelyne's bedroom to sleep with her when she was still his "captive", I smiled with his listing the reasons for marrying her, I sighed every time he sighed - just for show, of course - with one of her antics, I laughed with her attempts at learning self-defense...
5++++++ STARS!!!!
I honestly cannot remember the last time I enjoyed a book so so much!I will admit I was a person who at the mention on Historical Romances would run the other way!
Yet I told Blacky I would try one as I know she loves them :) I was so wrong to judge them!
This one is so wonderful that I think it will stay with me for the rest of my life *sigh* ***Things I loved*** * Duncan known as the wolf- you have my heart my love *sigh* you are amazing and I loved your stern attitude to
I honestly cannot remember the last time I enjoyed a book so so much!I will admit I was a person who at the mention on Historical Romances would run the other way!
* Duncan known as the wolf- you have my heart my love *sigh* you are amazing and I loved your stern attitude to begin with and yet your love for Madelyne.
Even to none Historical Romance readers or people wanting to begin with this genre like myself.
books by this author as she is amazing :)Blacky I could kiss you for recommending this to me.
~ Two great HR to highly recommend.It may be 30 years old but  Honors's Splendour is still amazing sweet.
The narrators voice for our dear heroine Madelyne was undoubtedly perfect for a young witty (..even sassy) lady then a thousand years ago.
'Tis a usual occurrence to bed one's wife on the wedding night.” It is great to get a genuine fairy-romance with a larger-than-life hero, a sweet adorable heroine and and grand epic HR feeling.
My conclusion: Ms Julie Garwood delivers the expected, but so much better.I LIKE - ..of course who doesn't?*******This novel (to read...
OMG OMG OMG I'm having a #fangirlin moment right now. Maybe later, I'll write more about the book but now OMG wohooo my mind is spinning!!! hahaha listen to me girls, you have to meet Duncan. Mark my words... You MUST meet him. Oh God help me, I think I lost my mind. See you later. :)
Loved the heroine so much!!!
There are some very long passages of prose and, while they do progress both the time-line and the plot without taking up a lot of space, it made me feel like the story was being told to me instead of the characters acting it out.
I think it would have packed a greater emotional punch and built even more trust in their relationship, which to me, is extremely romantic.Duncan and Madelyne are a classic Garwood hero and heroine.
Feel free at any time to skip to the 'bottom line' portion of the review, to get the gist of it)This book was my first Julie Garwood ever, and I am happy to say it will be my last.
Our heroine, Madelyne, starts us off by freeing her brother’s captive, Duncan Wexton, and saving him from death by freezing.
They’ll make wild, uninhibited, ‘tigress’ love (which, by the way, is a terrible mental image because it literally makes me think of a tiger in bed with Duncan) and then she’ll go back to being horribly shy.
LOVED!!!!!
Seemed like she was copying someone else’s idea that just didn’t work with her book.The steam was pretty good –typical Garwood, could use a smidge more but she leaves you to imagine the rest.There’s nothing really wrong with the story it’s just that I felt it really lagged a few times and you didn't get lost in it.
I guess you could argue that given her life history it was understandable but she’s not the kind of heroine I like to see.The print size is horribly small and there isn’t enough white space on the page so add that to a so/so story just doesn’t make for the most enjoyable read.
If you're a fan of her medieval romances, then this one won't disappoint.Unfortunately, I did happen to notice something while reading this that kept me from giving it five stars.
I love you Ms. Garwood, so please don't hate me for saying this...
Heroine then proceeds to win over entire clan/family (who all initially hate her), all the while putting herself in danger (that she is usually unaware of) thus giving the hero enough heart palpitations to realize that he can't live without her.
I really liked this book. It had me laughing and falling in love with the characters.
This was just perfect.
Not perfect per se, but perfect for me.
After my reading slump I discovered this book by chance and I'm so glad I decided to read it.I'm in love with the story.
I adore the Hero and the way he loves the Heroine.
He's protective, gentle and there are NO other love/lust interests for him.
He knows exactly what he wants and isn't afraid to let himself feel.
He's the first to tell her he loves her.
This was so sweet.The writing was very good.
From the first few sentences, the story enraptured me.
There are some suspenseful moments, some sexy times, and some funny and sweet scenes...and they get a HEA ending.POV: This alternated between focusing on Madelyne and Duncan in 3rd person narrative.Overall Pace of Story:  Good.
Sadness level: Low, no tissues neededPush/Pull: Yes (view spoiler)[There are times when they both push away as well as pursue the relationship.
I still would've liked a farther glimpse into their future though with maybe their own family as well as the h connecting with the family that she newly discovered at the end.Safety: This one should be Safe for most safety gang readers(view spoiler)[- Does Not have cheating- Does Not have a descriptive sex scene with OW/OM-  Does  have the h and H both pushing away-  Does Not have a separation between the h and H-  Does  have abuse- Does  have a HEA ending (hide spoiler)]
Pure Julie Garwood brilliance, Pure HR Perfection! Adored EVERYTHING and every single second of this book! Awwww, Duncan... Swoon...
Written by another author these characteristics might be annoying but Julie Garwood has a magical way of turning her heroes into men that are to-die-for!One example of Duncan's caveman-like behavior was after their wedding ceremony, if you could call it that, Madelyne was questioning the validity of their marriage when Duncan said, "Madelyne, the marriage is real enough.
--lines like that had me giggling all throughout the book!The Heroine- Madelyne was also a typical Garwood heroine.
I always love how Garwood's heroines are so oblivious to their effects they have on the heroes, such as this scene where Madelyne and Duncan are in a tent, sleeping next to one another to stay warm and Duncan is fighting his lust for her.
I loved this historical fiction by Julie Garwood. It has what one look in a historical fiction; the historical setting, intrigue, romance, suspense and a well laid plot. I loved the hero and heroine and those who were on their side and hated passionately the villain and his party. :) It is quite amazing when a book arouses your emotions with such intensity; all the credit goes to the author for such beautiful writing and creativity.
I do not find that quality endearing in the least, but kept reading.
At about 65% I realized things were moving even slower then before sex....she was driving me crazy...Duncan seemed to have lost his balls somewhere.A lot of people loved this story, it just wasn't for me.
I loved reading with the girls, I loved the premise for story...I probably could have tolerated Madelynn, because she isn't the worse female I have ever read if the story had moved faster.I hope other people give it a chance and enjoy it, just not my cuppa right now.
3.5 Stars!!This was a light and quite funny read. I loved Duncan and Madelyne was a likeable heroine though her erratic behavior can sometimes be off-putting, the interactions between the two were adorable and at the same time HOT. I loved most of the minor characters, The supporting characters were well-developed and crucial to the advancement of the plot, they were not just there as fillers.I laughed and rolled my eyes a few times! I would have liked more intrigue but all in all an easy, light read.
Duncan and Madelyne are together pretty much right from the beginning and this never changes.
The book could've left that out and the book wouldn't have changed one bit.I will give Garwood props on certain things though.
I loved the character of Duncan and how he wasn't a rapey, entitled asshole.
He was alpha, sure, but he wasn't an asshole, which is the type of "alpha" most found in books these days.
Men shouldn't get props for treating people like humans, but I have to give it to the character Garwood created.
I think I will stick to Kleypas and Quinn.
First of all, that period of history is not my favorite, I didn't care for the language or the conversations, it felt forced and fake somehow...
I prefer good conversations even in historical romance books, a bit of wit and a good laugh are needed as well.
I will hold my judgement until I finish the book, I hope it picks up.Now that I finished the book, I'll say it was good, not great but it's good and filled with action and romance, I kept thinking it will be a werewolf story though.
4.5 stars
"WHO'S AFRAID OF A BIG BAD WOLF?"Absolutely NOT Madelyne, aye.Ehem, pake gaya bahasa jaman dulu nih.... [image error]Nay, Madelyne never afraid of the Wolf , even Duncan "The Wolf",Baron of Wexton, or the real wolf , the beast its self.....And wolf begin the story, and ended it with a happy ending.To tell the truth...this fairy tales is one of the most wonderful I have ever read, aye... [image error]Once upon a time, saat para Baron Saxon masih jadi komandan di bawah para Raja Inggris, ada seor
[image error]Siapa yg gak senang sih , kalo selama 2 tahun hidupnya selalu terancam, di incar mau di perkosa Loudon tiap malam?Duncan langsung muncul keinginan kuat buat gak akan melepas Madelyne yg mempesona dia sejak pandangan pertama (cieeeee....) dan melindungi Madelyne dengan hidupnya dan malam itu juga,setelah melakukan pembalasan di benteng Loudon yg licik, mereka berangkat ke kediaman Duncan....malam itu juga, mereka "tidur bareng"..hm, jangan mikir yg seru2 dulu ya...soalnya emang dingin banget, dan Duncan bermaksud "melindungi" Madelyne dengan memeluk Madelyne sambil bobok...hihiihihii....adaaaaaa aja ya akal nya...dasar serigala....
!!!1!1!!!!!!!1!!!!!!!! BYE IM !!! SO SATISFIED!!4.5 stars.
I liked both characters and how they interated together.
I did feel like the the first half flowed a bit better than the last half.
The last portion seemed to drag a bit for me.
All in all, an enjoyable read that kept me glued to my kindle for a couple days when nothing else was working for me.
I'm trying to decide now which book by this author I want to read next!Note: At the time this review was posted, this book was available to borrow through SCRIBD.
To see other books available to borrow through Kindle Unlimited or SCRIBD, check out the Subscription Addiction group
Best book.
A repeater.
I must have read this favorite at least five 50 times.
I do love Garwood's hysterical historicals, especially this one!
Garwood writes entertaining scenes with heroes who are larger than life.
Her stories are like tall tales, or myths -- like the legendary Odysseus that Madeliene repeatedly quotes.
She writes with a mix of action and sizzle and humor.
Fingers crossed that she doesn't spoil it!
(She somewhat spoiled it.
Her voice grates, as she tries to sound like a man.
Then, the grating tone overspills into female voices and non-dialogue).
This book started off sloooooooowwww.
Omg, if I heard that phrase one more time.
It took me a while to get into this book, but I'm glad I stuck with it.
About 200 pages in, things finally started to pick up.
There was finally some sexy times, there was politics coming into play, and more action.
Ultimately I ended up loving Duncan and Madelyne together.
Duncan finally provided her safety and freedom to be herself and be happy.
Duncan's brothers and sister were really fun to get to know as well.
The ending was really good.
