https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/35553.Shout_The_Beatles_in_Their_Generation
Three and one half sort-of-Fab starsBefore I read this book, the personality rundown for the four lovable mop tops, based on listening to the music and watching “A Hard Day’s Night” a couple of times, was this:Paul: Charming, cuteGeorge: QuietJohn: Handsome, wittyRingo: the, uh, drummerAfter reading this book:Paul: Social climbing, two-faced, facile dandyGeorge: Spiritual, sullen, “you aren’t getting more than two songs per album”John: Callow, mean-spiritedRingo: the, uh, drummerYep, Ringo gets very little mention in this book, so, if he, by any chance, is your favorite Beatle, then forget it.John is clearly the author’s favorite getting the lion’s share of attention, especially early on.
So heartwarming and nostalgic to relive the memory of reading this excellent book on The Beatles and all the little tangents it took me through.Decades later I read in various places that Paul McCartney was unhappy with how Norman portrayed him in this book, in kind of a cynical and snarky way.
However, Norman sort of apologized years later telling McCartney that if he did depict him in a bad light, it was out of envy; Paul envy!
So many books, so little time!
Let me put it this way: If you're a John person, read and enjoy. If you're a George person, be prepared to feel a bit depressed. If you're a Ringo person (I raise my hand here), the little you'll see of him should not distress you overmuch, as he gets the last word and it's rather nice. If, however, you are a Paul person... DON'T READ IT!
While it's an entertaining read, the veracity of the book is questionable.The book starts off well, from the early lives of the band members through their time in Hamburg and the Cavern Club, but starts a steady decline once Brian Epstein begins to manage the band.
If he's willing to include this as a 'fact', how reliable are the juiciest bits of the book?Lennon, Lennon, Lennon - in the foreword, Norman says that he prefers Lennon...in the book, he adores Lennon and seems to despise the other band members (Paul especially).
This is the first book I read about The Beatles, and I appreciate Norman for his massive amount of research and interesting account of them.
Because of this, I feel generous enough to give this book 3 stars.Here is why giving 3 stars to this book is generous: There are a lot of information offered, but recently, I've learned that a massive portion of it is either deliberately wrong or it's outdated.
So, with all that said, I'm only giving 3 stars to this book because it made me aware of The Beatles on a deeper level, and made me want to know more about them.
An engrossing read ( especially if one was listening simultaneously to the music), showing the band in all their naked glory and un-glory, with touches of humor and sorrow someone would readily expect from these guys.
Very informative and entertaining—though some accounts are laden with elaborate prose that it’s quite obvious Norman had no direct attestation and, thus, had had to place his own interpretation of what he thought really happened.
Also, I wished he paid as much attention to Harrison and Starkey as he did on Lennon and McCartney—even on this book, it seems that Ringo is taken for granted and basically shoved to the background.
I'm getting a bit nostalgic about my music. I've always been a big music fan but the music of the 60s and 70s and the social situations of that time fascinate more and more the older I get. Reading about the major acts like The Beatles inherently requires an understanding of what was going on around them - as they both were affected and affected the life of the times in equal measure. Norman tells the story at the perfect pace.
He was, I think it is reasonable to say, 25% of the Beatles.OK, maybe 35%.Since he has the honesty to show us the state of play, Norman's closing chapters on Lennon (reverent) and McCartney (petulant) are kind of embarrassing to read.
My sister bought the first paperback edition of this book when it came out, and I read it waaaaay back then.
I seem to recall that John Lennon's recent murder wasn't mentioned at all, it having happened after the book went to press.
I just prefer my history more unbiased.Recently I came across an updated version on a clearance shelf at the bookstore and bought it.
Now it has John and George's death in it as well, and the paperback is now a larger version which makes the photos more enjoyable.
I'm not a fan of the Beatles' music,but I enjoyed this book which details their rise from humble beginnings to international superstardom.
Maybe it is also because the Beatles story is at root the story of friendship imploding, scorched with the whiff of what could have been.Philip Norman’s Shout is meant to be the book on the Beatles but it is the only one I have read so I have nothing to compare it too.
It is John that Norman romanticizes the most and you get the impression he sides with John against Paul and has little time for the other two.
Here's the thing - I'm a Beatles fan.
A big one.
So even if some of the book is confirmation of things I've previously read, I'm still going to enjoy it.
Norman has great love for John Lennon (obviously, the man wrote a whole biography about him) and no love lost for Paul McCartney.
But that's the nature of the Beatles.
People are either Lennon fans or McCartney fans.
I'm a Harrison fan.
But no matter his preference, Norman does a great job giving you a glimpse of the crazy storm these four men lived together for a decade.
Not my favorite Beatles biography. Although very well written and well-researched, I found the book a little anti-Paul for my taste. In addition, for a book about the Beatles, the Beatles themselves don't really feature very much. Certainly more time is spent developing the Beatles' manager Brian Epstein, than is spent on Ringo. However, there were some illuminating little extras like stories from the Beatles' stoop-watchers and other lesser-known figures that featured prominently in the Beatles' day-to-day.
Who doesn't like the Beatles? I mean, I'm not one of their die-hard fans or anything but I have a Beatles poster and some Beatles vinyl records, and even in this day and age of autotuned synthesized fake-sounding music like Taylor Swift, Justin Bieber and Snoop Dogg, nobody has forgotten the Beatles. This book discusses why exactly that is, and why this band has made it further than most bands ever do. It also talks about the Beatles themselves and why they performed music for so many different genres and styles.
Slow pace with great detail, you won't find yourself blazing through this book but I think most fan will get insights into this band that they may have never heard before. You can see why none of the Beatles agreed to be interviewed for this book though, it is unflinching in its portrayal of the four men whose mark remains clear on the music world.
Even though it took a long time to read, it was well worth the time. For anyone with any interest in the history of The Beatles, it is very informative and interesting reading. It takes you from the very beginning to the very end. It gives the reader a lot of insight into the band as a group and as individuals.
I recently re-read this Beatles biography. Norman is definitely a John fan and not a Paul fan, but this book is so well-done, it's a must-read for any Beatlemaniac. It reads like a novel.
I waited nearly four years to read this book after receiving it as a Christmas gift from my wife and kids, almost afraid to peek behind the curtain surrounding my favorite band of all time.
And, much as I knew the music already, I listened to it constantly while reading—to them, um, tune of more than 1,000 plays in the past four weeks—putting the book's descriptions into musical context and vice versa.
But for now, this stands in my mind as a masterpiece in research, documentation, and plain old storytelling about the band that made me a rock and roll fan as a child that's still my favorite all these years later.
I have considered myself a fan of The Beatles for many years now, but this is the first time I have read anything in-depth about the group.
Many reviews here have noted how McCartney gets short changed here, with regards to his talent and contribution to the group, and that Norman is principally a Lennon fan.
Lennon became sarcastic, even nasty, about Paul and resented McCartney's desire to advance the band and consolidate their achievements.
I'm glad I read the book, and I felt a little more informed about the history of the band, filling in the gaps in my knowledge, and the detail on elements lightly covered in the Anthology documentaries.
A great and almost definitive biography of the Beatles, certainly more comprehensive than Hunter Davies' fly-on-the-wall account "The Beatles" but marred by the writer's prejudices.Firstly he writes off the "Sixties vibe" as a con and a failure, despite the obvious fact that the revolutionary career of the Beatles themselves was one of the proofs that something really was changing.
Thirdly he is incredibly cynical about the Labour government.
OK, he seems to have little faith in politicians in general, but Harold Wilson's government is written off as utterly as the Sixties themselves.
As a Beatles fan, I generally enjoyed this book.
Although the author was not able to interview any of the fab four, Lennon had died by the point of intial publication, it was interesting to hear points of view from people who were within, and on the periphery of, Beatlemania.
He is quick to critisize Paul McCartney and George Harrison for their personality quirks, musicianship and relationship with Lennon, but ignores Lennon's own self-confessed domestic violence (see interview for Playboy magazine in 1980).
Just don't use this book alone to try to ascertain the real personalities of the Beatles, else you will think that McCartney is the very devil himself, and Lennon IS Jesus.
I've been a fan of the Beatles for almost five full decades.
Their first single, Love Me Do came out less than 24 hours before I was born.
I heard the Beatles from birth.
I've seen countless Beatles tribute bands, seen Beatlemania!
three times, seen Paul three times, watched all the movies, watched the full Anthology series, seen the Backbeat stage play, and read hundreds of articles on the band.
And, to top it off, I've read over 60 books on the Beatles, both as a band, and the four individuals.Through all of that, this is the singular best book I've ever read on the Beatles.
A spectacular book written with great detail. The reviews of the author’s obvious feelings towards certain members are true. I only wish that he were able to write the book with interviews from any of The Beatles. While obviously written from significant research and interviews of others, unfortunately you are left to take it all with a grain of salt. Still, a very well written and extremely enjoyable book to read. A must read for Beatles enthusiasts.
This is an enjoyable biography of The Beatles, though I wouldn't say it was perfect. There are some discrepancies with other things I have read about them, by people who knew them better, so it may not be 100% accurate, and some of the things toward the end feel a little glossed over. But in general, it is a good read -- just don't make it the only book about the Beatles that you read.
Perhaps surprisingly, there is not all that much on the most important thing about the Beatles, their music. Not much that we didn't know alreay, and little explanation of what they were and why they became so great. Not too good on the changes sweeping through the western world during the 60s either. But still, a great story, told well
All You Need is WordsPhilip Norman is one of the best Beatles biographers, just as good as Mark Lewisohn. The narrative throughout the book is compelling and factual and a good read for either a Beatle fan or a casual observer. This book, along with his biographies of John and Paul, make this fan want more. Yeah, yeah, yeah!
Meh, I know this is supposed to be one of the main "standard" Beatles reads . . but I found it kind of obnoxious how much of his personal opinion Norman put into the narrative.It threw the beginning of the book into doubt as to its veracity because I did not trust what his opinions were later in the book.That said, it did make me want to read other Beatles bio's.
Norman Phillip is full of himself and writes inaccuracies.
All'epoca (1981) l'unica biografia dei Beatles disponibile.Ma con l'arrivo dei documentatissimi studi di Mark Lewisohn,e di Kevin Ryan & Brian Kehew, si rivela per quello che è: spazzatura!...
Too anti-Paul for my taste.
