https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/16790.Smoke_and_Mirrors
(As if I needed another reason to never buy one) Republished in M Is for Magic.The Goldfish Pool and Other Stories - Almost written as a reflection for Neil Gaiman on hollywood.
Changes - Once again, a Gaiman story became weirdly sexual.
Man cheats on wife, despite having a couple of kids.
It's a retelling of Snow White with a huge reversal.
I would've loved this story if A) Young Snow (as in not over 18, more like 12 or younger hadn't blown a traveling monk before killing him AND B) if the prince wasn't into necrophilia when he screwed first the stepmother and then her daughter.
That sort of cleverness suckers me in every time.It may be unwise to compare the stories in 'Smoke and Mirrors' to each other and to 'Fragile Things' as both books represent more of a compilation of Gaiman stories that appeared in other publications over a particular period of his writing career versus something that was put together as an intentional, unified collection.
This collection of short works, some not quite complete, is maybe a must read for real Gaiman fans who read everything he does (4 stars for them), but not really for anyone else (only 1 star for the general audience).
I really like what Gaiman does, both in traditional and graphic novel form, but Smoke and Mirrors is not representative of his best work.
Basically, it is a collection of things he never bothered to give a final polish to.
Much of S&M is things that were just workbook exercises, not intended for publication.
It does, however, contain a few real gems for fans.
Meanwhile, he gets to know the elderly groundskeeper at his decaying hotel, who tells him stories of the glory days of silent films.
†‡ When We Went to See the End of the World by Dawnie Morningside, age 11¼ Desert Wind Tastings - Included in Sirens by Ellen Datlow and Terri WindlingIn the End †* Babycakes Murder Mysteries - written for the anthology Midnight Graffiti by Jessie HorstingSnow, Glass, Apples
Apparently I am not a fan of his short stories, they are bad. I gave his other short story collection book three stars and that was being kind. This one is getting two because I am all out of kindness.A better review to come. -Here is my attempt at a better review. Normally I would delete the prereview BS but I like it this time so it stays.- This is the second short story collection I have read from this author and they have both been thumbs down experiences. I definitely have a love/hate relat
Apparently I am not a fan of his short stories, they are bad.
I gave his other short story collection book three stars and that was being kind.
This one is getting two because I am all out of kindness.A better review to come.
-Here is my attempt at a better review.
This is the second short story collection I have read from this author and they have both been thumbs down experiences.
2.5 stars, a few gems but way too many narrative poems and meh stories.
I followed everything that happened with little interest as to what would eventually happen.Shoggoth's Old Peculiar:2Looking back, I don't even remember this story.
Kudos to Gaiman also for succeeding in writing quite possibly the toughest form of verse out there.Mouse:2Curious but a tale that scurried away pretty easily from my train of thought.
The Sea Change:4I love the sea and aquatic life in general, therefore I was pretty gripped with this story.
It’s a wonderful, disturbing, downright peculiar collection of stories that spins you from one adventure to the next weaved in with Gaiman's imaginary genius.
As much as I adore Gaiman’s writing style, it seemed like none of these short stories were chosen thoughtfully. I enjoyed this book a though, so it gets a 3.5 from me. RTC
As a result, I launched into his collection of short stories with high expectations.
I should say, for the record, I like short stories - I apprediate the whole 'bite-sized' concept, that you can devour a whole tale in a single setting; it's a bit like having a snack before you settle for a big main meal!
However, the book soon became bogged down with a couple of stories that didn't really contribute much (in my opinion).
This was particularly the case with the poems; which for me, mostly fell flat.
Would I give Neil Gaiman's future short stories a try?
A guilty pleasure, sure, but with Ray Bradbury's death, I'd suggest that Neil Gaiman is the best storyteller we have today.Consider the words of Harry Bailly (he of the Tabard Inn, not George's brother): "And which of yow that bereth hym best of alle / That is to seyn that telleth in this caas / Tales of best sentence and moost solaas / Shal have a soper at oure aller cost." And I'd buy Gaiman a meal or three for this sundry collection of tales pulled together from over the years and published in Smoke and Mirrors.You might think I'm just showing off with the Middle English, but I don't think it's too much of a stretch to draw parallels between Gaiman and Chaucer.
And what that is, if you go back to Harry Bailly, is that right blend of "best sentence and moost solaas," and Neil Gaiman just about always gets it right.
From the short story, 'Murder Mysteries'About half way through this volume of short's I was thinking this would probably be a 4 star, maybe a 3.5 actual.
I could feel his love of mythology, a little touch of H.P. Lovecraft, and another side that I think of as a British Chuck Palahniuk.The last 2 stories, 'Murder Mysteries', and 'Snow, Glass, Apples',made this entire book well worth the read.
Murder Mysteries was a unique play on the mythology of God, Lucifer and the angels that I found to be particularly entertaining and thought provoking.
a wonderful collection of the madness that is neil gaiman.
How weird and marvelous is Gaiman's mind
I hate saying this, but I'm only giving this one 3 stars.  I love Gaiman's writing, I truly do. Somehow I felt a lot of the stories in this anthology were a bit disjointed. Some were boring, to be quite honest. As if they were just something thrown together from a discarded pile. A few of the stories were enjoyable so I'm just going to say I had a neutral time reading this. That being said, I am not giving up on Gaiman just yet. I know he's an author has the potential to make my weirdly wired br
I hate saying this, but I'm only giving this one 3 stars.
I love Gaiman's writing, I truly do.
Somehow I felt a lot of the stories in this anthology were a bit disjointed.
Some were boring, to be quite honest.
As if they were just something thrown together from a discarded pile.
A few of the stories were enjoyable so I'm just going to say I had a neutral time reading this.
That being said, I am not giving up on Gaiman just yet.
I know he's an author has the potential to make my weirdly wired brain happy.
My first ever book filled with short stories and, naturally, it was BRILLIANT!
However, I'm new to short stories and didn't know if it was for me since I usually prefer novels.
But this collection has some real gems!Chilling stories, funny stories, sometimes stories with only a couple of lines, other times quite long short stories, but ALWAYS stories with wit and more than two hidden messages.
And, as a bonus, my edition of the book not only had a foreword but also background information on every single one of the stories, which gave a great insight.
I will definitely read the next two collections as well.!
DNF at 50%.I couldn't really get myself to love any of the stories here. I liked some of them at most; as for the rest... maybe they were just too short.
Wow. I have to say that just about every story in this collection was highly engaging, and I had strong emotional reactions to several of them, and many "gotcha" type moments.
Gaiman is, indeed, a master storyteller.
Many of the stories (Don't Ask Jack, The White Road, and Snow,Glass,Apples in particular) were downright emotionally disturbing.
Good, but disturbing.
Don't Ask Jack actually generated a nightmare!
*shudder* Great job, Gaiman.
I've loved all of his novels and a great deal of his short fiction, but this collection was marred with either lackluster outings or poems I couldn't enjoy because I personally don't understand what makes them poems.
I think that, had I read SMOKE AND MIRRORS instead of listening to the audio book, I would have disliked far more of these stories than I did.
SMOKE AND MIRRORS is not the worst short story collection I've read, but it comes close.
Even the worst of these tales are readable, which cannot be said for every short story author.
I find him to be a brilliant idea man with little substance.-Suggested Reading Order:Murder MysteryTastingsSnow, Glass, Apples Only the End of the World AgainShoggoth’s Old Peculiar We Can Get Them for You WholesaleChivalryCold ColorsThe PriceChivalry- an old woman buys the Holy Grail.
My favorite part was pigeon selling- people would buy them and spread their blood around their computer.The Sweeper of Dreams- T’was a nice short; think the ending was a “I have to end this and… meh.”Vampire Sestina- A vampire poem.
Very well written.Babycakes- A story about eating babies… (sweet)Murder Mysteries- I waded through 292 pages to read this story!Snow, Glass, Apples- …I like the idea of holding her heart on the wall above the bed.
segundo recopilatorio que leo del autor y me ha gustado mucho más. Por la temática de los relatos más oscuros, más de ciencia ficción, más adultos...Pero todos con ese toque tan particular del autor. Seguro que muchos os sorprenderá u os hará ver la realidad de otra forma como me ha ocurrido con el último relato. Muy recomendable a lectores asiduos del autor.Más sobre mi opinión en la reseña del bloghttps://almalectora.blogspot.com/2017...
"Stories are, in on way or another, mirrors.
We use them to explain ourselves how the world works or how it doesn't work.Like mirrors, stories prepare us for the day to come.
A distorting mirror, to be sure, and a concealing mirror, set at 45 degrees to reality, but it's a mirror nonetheless, which we can use to tell ourselves things we might not otherwise see." As always another wonderful book by Neil Gaiman.
A great collection of short stories and poems that are haunting, disturbing, and funny all at the same time in a way that only Neil Gaiman can deliver.
Short stories are like ice cream cones: they can be perfectly savored in one sitting. These ones in particular were deliciously entertaining. I have always loved Neil Gaiman's style (he is my favorite author, after all), and this collection is no different. It's an eclectic mix of oddities, wonders, spine-tinglers, and fairy tales turned upside down. Highly recommended, especially if you're in the mood for something short and sweet.
I just think I'm the wrong audience for this book. Some of the novellas I thought were okay and others I skimmed. Nothing really grabbed my attention to make me sit up and say, "Wow that was amazing".I'll bypass Gaiman's short stories in future and just continue reading his novels.
Smoke and Mirrors reads like Scary Stories to Tell in the Dark for adults, where something is always off and the endings are kitschy.
One of the peculiarities of Gaiman's writing is that he rarely introduces his readers to the worlds where his stories take place.
He never alludes that the strange is the norm in these worlds, so when something supernatural or otherwordly happens, the event is simply plopped in the reader's lap.
The lack of emotional response from the characters results in the reader having a tepid experience as well.
Hey, hi!
Neil Gaiman speaking!
I can write the best damn introductions ever..
Bye losers!
Just kidding, I can write whatever the hell I want: name it, already done!I found some old friends (such as "Chivalry" or "Troll bridge"..
Long time no see!) and discovered some new (I'm talking about you, "We can get them for you wholesale" and you, "Snow, glass, apples"..
Nice meeting you!).Some stories are creepy as hell (there is a certain atmosphere, I don't even know how to explain!), while others are pure genius; i think I didn't catch the meaning of some of them, but totally my bad :D
Like in all story collections some stories are better, some are worse.In this case some stories wher
What a less than average writer! I don't see what the fuss about Gaiman! Maybe he's not the author for me but some of the glitches in his writing are universally recognized as disjointed, especially by my former English teacher.Smoke and mirrors got more than 4 stars on this site, and it's an outrageous score. There's simply just no perspective anymore. And I thought IMDB had bad scoring...live and learn, I suppose. One star.
Interesting collection with a wide variety of stories. Horror, fantasy, science fiction, and other genres are present in this collection. Gaiman's imagination is unique and some of his stories have the ability to grab you and not let go until the end. A crisp, clean writing style and inventive premises make this an enjoyable collection. Some stories are exemplary while others fell flat. Overall, a worthwhile read from a truly talented writer who is not bound to any sort of genre limitation.
Smoke and Mirrors is a hugely varied collection of short stories in terms of length and subject matter, but there is a thread of delving into the shadow-world of half-seen things we fear that ties them all together.
There are many reasons to read this book, but my reason is to discover the very best, and most disturbing Snow White retelling I have ever encountered.Gaiman opens the collection with an explanation of how each of the stories came to be, and where they were originally published, which was helpful in giving context to a couple of the more baffling stories.
Oh. Oh oh oh.Na Gaimanovi je super, jak stírá hranice mezi realitou a fantastičnem. Je to přesně ten typ příběhů, který mě baví číst. Vím, že se to _nikdy_ nemůže stát - ale bylo by fajn, kdyby existovalo i něco víc než jen přízemní šeď běžného života.Ve Smoke and Mirrors jsem si připadal jak na horské dráze. Některé věci - Chivalry, Troll Bridge, Vampire Sestina, Snow Glass Apple - byly báječné. A do toho WTF v podobě Eaten. Co už.
