https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/17617277-real
“My legs wobble, and I’m left with the distinct impression this man wants to pound me next.
“Every sexual organ in me is awake and aching.”
How many sexual organs does she have???
“I whimper, feeling the coiled tension in his shoulders, the smooth velvet of his chest as he devours me, and at the first scrape of my nubbin against the rock-hard quad muscle of his thigh, I explode.”
Apparently this is what an eroticized face looks like:
“It means I’m going French this week and not showering so I can smell you on me.”
“He smells of fish and pure mean asshole.”
Well, Brooke has to rescue Nora from Snidely Whiplash, and since Remington, in a manic hissy fit, bet "all of his money" that he'd beat Scorpion in the "Underground Championship"....wouldn't it just be so unbelievably sweet if he threw the match to ensure Nora's release from El Scorpio?
5. Why did Remington, after an entire books' worth of silence about his feelings, go off for five fucking pages at the end about how much he lurves Brooke?
He told Brooke he wants to be her "REAL".
Also Brooke, your nipples are just that please don't call them breast tips, Oh my god.Magical writing like this....."My genetically induced mating instincts are at full attention, roaring inside me""My sex muscles clench every time he hits his opponent" "My genes and DNA is a natural desire for healthy offspring, and with it comes a desperate desire to mate""Maybe the cramp I thought I was getting in my ovaries was not cramp at all""His hands clench on my hip, and my womb clenches with it so much it's painful and I almost whimper" That's painful writing, man.I don't even know what to say other than what the actual shit is up with this book?!?
I love him. He’s not just a star, he’s the whole fucking sky to me. He’s the sun and every planet in this galaxy.  NOW THIS IS WHAT I CALL AN AMAZING DEBUT NOVEL.FUCKING BRILLIANT.Remington Tate is so one of my top favorite book boyfriends. I love him, I more than love him. I want to lick him and eat him up.Dump whatever you are reading for a while, and jump onto this book.. trust me, its WOW.When the book starts and the author describes Remy; him walking, I swear to god I creamed myself.I cou
trust me, its WOW.When the book starts and the author describes Remy; him walking, I swear to god I creamed myself.I could imagine him in my head all muscles walking like he owns the world; Sexy tan muscles walking on the most amazing thighs I've ever imagined.
*swooning*For like the first half of this book I was YELLING at my laptop because seriously, there is only so much I can take of sexual tension.
The chemistry Brooke and Remy share, I swear to god you feel it deep inside your skin.This book had some maddass quote, like really intense and stuff.
I feel like I can sum this novel up simply as a 266-page description of Remington Tate's muscles.I cannot deal with this level of physical description.
Every time Remy walks into the room, speaks or breathes, Brooke's eyes are wandering over his perfect body, describing his perfect smile, just in case we didn't realise how he looks the last hundred times she's mentioned it.
He kissed people, he touched them so casually, and any surprise the person initially had quickly disappeared in favour of delight that this hot guy had his arm around them and acted like it was the most natural thing in the world.
If Remy's muscles aren't clenching, then it's Brooke's vagina.
I just don't think this story was for me.I know a LOT of readers loved it though, it's been getting so many 5 star ratings, so I know that in many people's eyes it's got something special and I fully respect that, I guess I just personally couldn't connect to it.REAL follows the story of Brooke and Remy.
The entire story was told from Brooke's perspective and I just felt there was SO much focus (right from like page 2) on how hot she was for him every time she even saw him that I felt there was no time spent on actually building a real connection between them.My second issues was the repetitiveness of both the scenes and certain words.
5 SERIOUSLY SMOKING HOT STARS!!!  We’ll get right to it... The main attraction: Remington ‘Riptide’ Tate   This guy is too much. Too much male. Too much masculinity and pure raw beats. Put together, he’s just like sex on a stick.  One thing you should know about him right away... And just a warning, this book will get you Okay, okay... now for the actual review.Brooke gets dragged to an underground fight one night with her best friends Melanie. Brooke isn’t the type of girl that usually goes to
5 SERIOUSLY SMOKING HOT STARS!!!
Brooke feels the heat from Remy.
Remy gets ahold of Brooke and invites her to the next fight.
As Brooke and Remy get to know each other, they communicate mostly through lyrics.
But Remy knows Brooke is special.
He wants Brooke to know everything, but he is afraid she will run 
Brooke finds out,(view spoiler)[Remy is bipolar and has very drastic highs and lows, manic episodes to the extreme.
Remy wants to make sure things are REAL between them before they take that step.
Brooke and Remy are inseparable.
***WARNING THIS IS A SWOONTASTIC, RAVING, FANATICAL REVIEW!!! READ AT YOUR OWN RISK!***5 STARS ...NO WAY!!!!!!! THIS BOOK IS A MILLION STAR BOOK!!! FAN-FREAKING-TASTC "When I take you, you'll be mine," he says, a soft promise in my ear. He slides his thumb along my jaw, then gently kisses my earlobe. "You need to be certain." His eyes are so hot that I'm on fire with the lust in them, and the word "mine" makes the empty place between my legs swell with longing. "I want you to know me first, and
It’s without a doubt THE BEST book I have read this year.
It’s made me want to go back and re rate all the other books that I’ve read because next to the feelings that this has produced, they can’t even compare.
I want to share this feeling with YOU because it’s euphoric!!!
He lists his head to mine, and I want him so bad I feel consumed inside, like he's already possessed my soul, and now my soul aches for him to possess my body."-Brooke
Brooke is one of the best chicks in a book I've read.
But books like Real are twisting the romance genre to a place where the phrases “pussy lips” and “fucks my ear” are becoming the norm, and I can’t with that.
With no further ado, BAVR’s Ode to the New Alpha: Remy Edition…He's hot, ripped, and hung like a horse.His dick slices through granite and punches ten sharks.
The REAL World: Brooke’s Vagina.You know what makes books like Real most insufferable to me?
Brooke just fucking loves it when he goes manic, mostly because he gets really, really horny, and also because she likes to feel needed.
As for Remy and Brooke’s future book, I won’t be reading it.
The way you crafted your prose eloquently showed how hyperbole and hyper-erotic imagery can be used to destroy the innate sensuality of a character.
There is no way she meant some of these lines non-ironically.
No way.
No way.
Well, let me see what other people thought.Holy crap, people like this book?!
Like seriously?
Huh...Well, a round of applause for those of you who made it through this book.
Maybe it improves...
and maybe pigs have started flying and bunnies have started conversing and unicorns have starting lobbying for some respect among the supernatural animal community.
I liked this book but didn't love it.
It has to be the single most repetitive and overly sexualized book I have ever read.
And that says something!
Still, I couldn't put it down, so I guess that says something, too.
It was an odd feeling and one that left me somewhat discombobulated by the end of the book.
While this particular story didn't fully work for me–I found the heroine annoying and somewhat one-dimensional–I can see why others loved this book.
It's an addictive read with an elusive hero that impossible not to love or swoon over.
COMPLETELY BLOWN AWAY!! THIS BOOK IS TO FREAKING DIE FOR!!! FANFUCKINGTASTIC!!!  This book is so much more than 5 stars.. It needs more stars!!!  The Chemistry Between Remy and Brooke was crazy, intense, hot, mouth watering, scorching , sheet burning, panty melting, eye's rolling back of your head total fucking hotness!!! The Sex was totaly AMAZING!! Once I got past almost dieing of sexual frustration..but man, once they finally hooked it up--damn.. it was game on!!! The Story was so good..Remy
The Chemistry Between Remy and Brooke was crazy, intense, hot, mouth watering, scorching , sheet burning, panty melting, eye's rolling back of your head total fucking hotness!!!
Brooke learns Remy's dark secrets but she falls so far in love with him that she'd do anything to be his anchor in the storm and be there for him..
And what even more amazing is that there is going to be another book for them!!!
But apparenlty Ms. Evans has more in store for MY REMY ( Mine MINE MINE MINE MINE MINE) Brooke and I'm totally down with that..
Edited 7/17 - So I decided to read this for myself... all the love and fangirling for this book made me think maybe the quotes were not indicative of the full story.Approximately 3 page in:  I'm in the minority in my feelings about this apparently: Here's the thing... not a single thing about this story was sexy to me. In fact, the majority of the time I spent like this: and like this: and like this:  And at one point, The first lemon had me doing this: The writing itself was so ridiculous to me
all the love and fangirling for this book made me think maybe the quotes were not indicative of the full story.Approximately 3 page in: 
"I'm every woman's adventure, damn you, and I don't want to be yours. I want to be your fucking REAL." ~ Remy <3LOVED IT.Can't wait for more Remy!!! ~ ~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~ My Remington "Riptide" Tate --   ~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~ My Brooke -- Full review to come.
(Self-pubbed + New Adult practically makes that a given.) I know that it's a labor of love and the author loves her characters and loves everything they say and do and the manuscript was probably never seen by anyone willing (or able) to give it a good going-over.
But that still doesn't mean that this saga of Brooke Dumas and Remington Tate didn't suck huge, hairy donkey balls.Yeah, I should work on that...later.One recurring excuse comment I see regarding self-pubbed romances like this is that even if the writing "needs work," at least there's "a good story." To which I ask: What story?
Music plays a very important part in this book, most especially to Remy and Brooke and it does have its very own playlist but I want to dedicate this song to Remy for what he did in New York and what it meant - The Last Fight by Velvet Revolver.
Damn you Remy, you made me ugly cry!
I’m every woman’s adventure, damn you, and I don’t want to be yours.
I want to be your fucking REAL.
If I fuck you, I want you to belong to me.
I want you to give yourself to me—not Riptide!”
Now, he has a small entourage of people close to him, those that he trusts and he is fiercely protective of them and is incredibly slow to trust.I don’t think it’s even possible to find the words to express just now much I loved Remy but I will try.
He wants Brooke with a passion but knows he needs to hold back – he’s so incredibly intense that it’s going to be all or nothing and he needs her to learn about his ‘darkness’ before he can let herself go and allow him to take her.
When I want to read a book that is not serious, I read a comedy.edit4: I JUST CAN'T LEAVE IT BE.After giving it A LOT of thought (I literally can't stop thinking about it), today I've decided the book pissed me off.How irresponsible do you have to be to write something like this?!Relying on tranquilizers to control his behavior when he's having an episode is probably the most irresponsible thing I have ever heard.I really hope the author will get Remy some proper, medical help in the next book.Having (view spoiler)[bipolar disorder (hide spoiler)] DOES NOT mean you end up in a looney bin.
I don't want to spend my time trying to figure out what the author means, I just want to get lost in the story and characters.
It is riddled with bad grammar, long run-on sentences (some entire paragraphs are one long sentence) misused words galore, incorrect tenses, improper sentence structure and most of the sentences make little to no sense at all even if you rearranged them.
They run rampant through the entire book and the same mistakes are made often, sometimes several on a single page, so it obviously wasn't an editing or typo issue.
Unable to precisely communicate his emotions through thought and words, Remy uses music/songs to express his feelings and this was such a poignant and beautiful part of the story and being an absolute music nut, I LOVED it!The author put a lot of effort into having the right songs for Remy and Brooke, even so far as to obtaining lyrics, and I’m so glad she did because this really did add to the story.
➦What i liked about this book : -The last 15% of it :D that was AWESOME.➦what i didn't like about this book :- The rest of the book, Cheers!
SPOILER FREE REVIEW -mature content reader discretion is advised.3.5 STARS out of 5Genre: Contemporary RomanceReview Posted on 4/17/13Okay, so before you throw tomatos at me in protest just hear me out.Remington RIPTIDE Tate is #1 in the underground fighting circuit girls wanna scew him and guys want to be him.
She accepts.She wants him and he wants her but before he has her, he must tell her the truth.Can Brooke accept the REAL man who is Remington RIPTIDE Tate?First let me be clear I did like this book, I will not sit here and act like Katy Evans did not get my panties all in a twist over Remy because she did.
Be jealous...I was the first reader of this book and OMG you guys. IT'S AWESOME AND AMAZING.Remington Tate is a sexy beast. Brooke is his perfect match - strong and sweet. It's an emotional roller coaster ride you won't be able to put down and the ending....OMG. I still think about the ending and I read the book months ago!Katy, you're da bomb but you already know I have mad love for you. So there. :)ADD THIS BOOK TO YOUR BOOKSHELVES PEOPLE. YOU WON'T REGRET IT.
Holy.SHIT. (pardon the language) ;)But there’s just no other way of describing this book. Actually, I’ve had several friends ask about the book I’ve been *locked* away in my room with. And those two words seemed to be my only response. In it’s entirety. HOLY SHIT! Katy Evans, the delicious author of this gorgeous, hormone-stimulating piece of work is a *drug dealer* of sexual angst. And I am heavily addicted, friends.I might have to introduce myself during future meetings with, “Hi. I’m Ashlee;
*He’ll make your forget your own name right before he makes you scream his.*Black savage-like hair, blue eyes that vary from neon to gunmetal, and a body that’ll give you a reason to go to church next Sunday.Remington can’t be owned by anyone inside or outside of the fighting ring.Until he meets Brooke Dumas.
Brooke is the beauty, and Remington is the beast in this wildfire of a book.
[image error]But like every beast, he has his secrets.Secrets that can push even a strong young woman like Brooke away.And Remington ‘Riptide’ Tate will go toe-to-toe with the devil in himself to ensure that doesn’t happen.
Totally possessed by a man with a boyish grin that will turn her world upside down, open her heart and make her body sing with every touch.Remy, is a fighter in body, but inside he hides a tortured soul.
Abandoned by those that should have protected him, unloved and almost alone except from a trusted few, he is also withdrawn and unable to express even the most simple feelings.
She wants to be possessed body and soul and Remy can certainly do me any day!And I am not just after his body (delicious even though it is...) The man is a walking orgasm just by talking.
See my review.NOTE: Book #1 of The Real, Raw & Ripped Series, BUT this is a complete story!!!
Until you have read and experienced the chemistry, the intensity, the heat...there is simply no way for me to even get close to adequately expressing what this story, this relationship, these characters...REMINGTON will do to you as a woman.
The focus is absolutely on Remy and Brooke in this story, but the secondary characters do add something essential.
She knows her job, and Katy Evans did an amazing job with Brooke's internal dialogue.
◊•◊ 4 Powerful K.O.s Rating ◊•◊   My Remington 'Riptide' Tate    My Brooke Dumas  What a violent, dark and totally hot story that made me wet and frustrated at the same time. "Why'd you want to have sex with me? To have a fucking adventure? What was I suppose to be? your one-night-fucking stand? I'm every woman's adventure, damn you, and I don't' want to be yours. I want to be your fucking REAL. You get that? If I fuck you, I want you to belong to me. To be mine. i want you to give yourself to
What a violent, dark and totally hot story that made me wet and frustrated at the same time.
I'm every woman's adventure, damn you, and I don't' want to be yours.
I want to be your fucking REAL.
If I fuck you, I want you to belong to me.
Brooke Dumas is dragged by her friend Mel to an Underground fight to run right smack into intense blue gaze of Remington 'Riptide' Tate.
At this points I somewhat got tired of her talking about how she is turned on and how she is gushing.This story in a way insta-love but not an easy one.
This book is oozing testosterone...All this sniffing, rubbing, growling and mating hormones...hahahaI loved it!I was thinking of writing a detailed review, but then I had a look at all these 1-star reviews and I honestly laughed my socks off.
I want to have your children!", there will be girls who love Remy aka Remington ‘Riptide’ Tate and his growling.
To have a fucking adventure?
I’m every woman’s adventure, damn you, and I don’t want to be yours.
I want to be your fucking REAL.
If I fuck you, I want you to belong to me.
5 *REMINGTON* starsRe-read January 8th, 2017  And I don’t want the world to see me, it says, but I want you to know who I am…  And yes, Remington "RIPTIDE" Tate aka REMY, is still my absolute No.1 fighter *bows*My first review:I'm quite overwhelmed now...ok, I slept it over! You know how they say, the morning is better than the evening, in a sense, your thoughts will be clearer in the morning after the hype settles down!well, guess what? it didn't work for me! who, said that anyway?! Probably a
Probably a blunt person who didn't have anything to sort out in a first place!!!ah, hell...lets starts from the end...LOLit has a HEA, thank GOD, for that!the book is actually NOT what I expected from a story about the fighter, I mean I knew there would be some issues and problems from the past and all, but this story actually dealt with a serious subject that also draws parallels from real life.and that fact pulled me deeper into the story.so, we have a fighter (boxer) Remington "Riptide" Tate aka Remy for shortand Brooke Dumas (a former athlete, tracker due to injury turned physical therapist)it was a spark at first sight, an electricity that set the path of their ways and from then on...there was NO stopping for either of themhe's protective and possesive of her and he's a badass fighter to start with!
The female character has to have eyes the colour of whiskey.
If she doesn't have whiskey coloured eyes, then the male protagonist will not be attracted to her.
Oh, and finally, she has to be touted as a "strong female protagonist" despite being an absolute doormat in front of the male protagonist.Chapter 2: Male charactersThe male protagonist has to be muscular, impossibly attractive, with a stubble, dark hair and blue eyes.
Chapter 3: StorylineThe storyline has to be one where sexual attraction between the protagonists is instant.
Let the male protagonist say lines like 
Meet Remington 'Riptide' Tate & Brooke DumasRemy is a fighter and he is all alpha!Brooke is a sports rehab specialist and a former Olympic contender.There are so many "lion" references and mannerisms throughout the book that I couldn't resist using the pictures above.SERIES:     REAL - no cliffhanger | MINE - continuing story | REMY - Remy's POV of REAL & MINE | Rogue - Greyson's story | RIPPED - Pandora's story To find out when the next book will be released click here.
