https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1162840.Play_Therapy
This book is a very informative, intriguing, and inspiring argument for Axline's method of non-directive play therapy. Axline provides the accounts of several different examples of real play therapy sessions, combined with discussion and critique of the therapists' methods. I would definitely recommend this book to anybody interested in childcare. Although this book is directed towards therapists and other childcare workers, people who interact with children on a much more personal and emotional basis (such as parents and guardians) might also benefit by learning about the effectiveness of reflection and acceptance of children's feelings.
A very informative book. Essential reading for anyone working with children. The case studies are detailed and give an insight into each child’s world. I found this book to be very useful as it shows how play therapy can be implemented. I found it especially useful, as in a few of the case studies, the therapist does not respond therapeutically and the author talks about this. All in all, this book shows the importance of accepting a child unconditionally, and how by allowing them to play out/express their thoughts and feelings, leads to positive change.
This book has helped me a lot in my practice, as a general overview of play therapy, and to reconnect with the founding principles of the work. I skip around in it, some of the sections seem superfluous, but it does have a lot of transcripts from sessions along with Axline's analysis of what happened in the treatment, which can be useful in understanding how she perceived the work she was doing, and how she would go about judging 'good therapy' (child-centered) with 'bad therapy'. Well worth reading for clinicians who work with children.
Play Therapy is a growing field. This book by Virginia Axline is an important book setting up the basics of the field, with case histories and examples. It is important to note this book is from 1969 and uses language and thoughts from the time period, which would now be offensive.
Книжка содержит описание методики игровой терапии и большое количество рассказов про случаи конкретных детей.
Считается, что самостоятельная (не подсказанная терапевтом) деятельность помогает клиенту расслабиться, найти ресурсы внутри себя для творческого способы решения проблемы, "прожить" её в ходе сеанса.
В частности, терапевт должен воздержаться от одобрения или неодобрения действий ребёнка, чтобы дети не старались "угодить" терапевту.
В ходе игровой терапии дети находятся в игровой комнате вместе с терапевтом.
возможность поиграть в младенца (попить из бутылочки с соской, особенно характерно для детей, у которых есть младший брат или сестра); 2.
an informative and inspiring book that helps to have a glimpse into the inner landscapes of different children and see how they can be transformed for the better.
Realted to Dibs in Search of Self, this book provides more instances of therapeutic interactions. The sum of those examples is a better udnerstanding and familiarity of what can happen in a session with a child, ways to respond, what might happen with different responses, and how some of those relationships could develop.Years later, this book reminds of better techniques and possible techniques, and I use the ideas in my evaluations to obtain more information about the child's functioning, as well.
I've only dipped in here to find principles and practices that are applicable for speech coaching, improv comedy & play facilitation, creative mediation, and for interacting with my own child and his many friends. Some of what I've gotten so far:The Eight Basic Principles:1. Develop a warm, friendly relationship... in which good rapport is established as soon as possible.2. The therapist accepts the child exactly as he is.... (more when I'm at the computer rather than the iPhone.)
This book, although an old reference to Play Therapy, still manages to provide a strong foundation to the principles and theories that it is based on. With excerpts from sessions and several case studies to address the subtle issues that a therapist is likey to confront, this book is a must-read for a psychotherapist :)
Oversimplifies a really complex process. It pulls from older case files. I hope a more modern book will help incorporate the more recent research. Still the classic skills are all still spelled out and relevant in the book.
La autora aborda de una manera muy accesible la terapia de juego, de manera que el lector puede comprender con mucha facilidad los distintos roles y las necesidades del niño. La ejemplificación con casos, genera aún más comprensión, al ver aplicada la parte teórica.
I think this is vital to a Child Life Specialist's library.
This is the classic PLay Therapy book - EVERY play therapist should have this on his/her reading list and as a resource. Some things are outdated now, but it is a great baseline!
A little dated,(understandable since it was written in 1974) but shares some amazing information.
Enjoyed the overall message of the book but found ti quite longwinded. More suitable for a therapist specialising in that area.
recommended by Ken. This is where his teaching style is inspired.
Old, but still useful.
cool
An oldie but a goodie, Axline does a great job of outlining and extolling the virtues of the simplicity of play and it's therapeutic benefit.
Just read the first half for work... very practical and easy to read!
excellent resource for child therapists!
even if you are not going to use the whole process of non directive playtherapy, it is important to learn how to be permissive and accepting in psychotherapy with children
