https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/16434.The_Taking
Coyotes-that-weren't-quite-coyotes, people coming back to the dead and a sudden invasion of creatures that were altogether unsettling.
I'll put it down to her Mary-Sue-ness.The apocalypse aspects were pretty good (creepy talking dolls, the invading creatures) but the characters kept ruining things for me.
No in between.The heavy-handed religious twist deeply unsettled me.
and changed this book from 2.5 stars to barely a 1 in my eyes.I adored  Odd Thomas but now I realize that a series like that may be a once-in-an-author's-lifetime sort of thing.Audiobook CommentsI honestly can't distinguish whether I hated Molly more or her voice.
The Koontz I read when much younger was a libertarian no doubt, and he filled his fast-paced narratives with typically feisty heroines, stalwart heroes, inherently evil villains – yet they all lived in a world that was not visibly a portrait of Sodom & Gomorrah before its fall.
What happened to Koontz?After reading his bio on-line, I couldn’t see anything that would have changed a man so utterly and am left only with the vague notion that too much time in the hands of a very rich man is often not a widening experience.
Possibly the worst Koontz book I have ever read. Poor character development, meandering plot line and an utterly nonsensical religious subtext completely demolish any sense of creepy atmosphere that the author manages to successfully employ.
Instead, you have to pay attention to the theory that's being ruled out as a possibility, yet mentioned peripherally and in often subtle ways throughout the book.
Therein lies the problem with The Taking--the clues weren't subtle enough and I pretty much had it all figured out from the very first one (seriously, can you mention "Legion" and not be obvious?) I desperately hoped that Koontz was going to throw in a plot twist so craftily, well, crafted before the end that I would have to cede the victory to him ("Well played, Dean," I imagined myself saying by the book's end, "but you shant cozen me next time with your verbal trickery.") Instead, all I can say is, "Better luck next time, and play your cards a little closer to the vest--don't name the freakin' dog Virgil." Cross posted at This Insignificant Cinder
Dean, like Stephen King, wrote some truly good books.
Scary, thrilling, page-turners that had great plots and likeable, believeable, and horrible characters.
Many of Dean Koontz's books had noble themes, and endings that gave one a sense of justice and purpose after the chaos of the story.
Then, both Stephen and Dean began to write hundreds of books.
Like a drug, you just want to relive the experience of reading that first wonderful book again.
In the 80's, every great movie had at least one crappy sequel.
Today we seem to be doing the same thing with books.
Overall, I thought it was a very enjoyable read and I would highly recommend it, as it is one of my favorite books of his that I have read so far.**SPOILER ALERT**My major qualm with the book lies in its religious theme, which we discover at the end (there is a pervasive religious undertone throughout the book, however, which is very common for Koontz and is one of the ways that his writing annoys me).
Of course, we are expected to take the protagonist's conclusions as gospel, no matter how far-fetched they might be, given the known facts presented thus far in the book (this is another very common aspect of Koontz's writing that annoys me).
As the world is reverse terraformed for the invaders and alien species are introduced, especially the many variety of spores, it's only the hopeful who have a chance of surviving.Also like many of Koontz's later books, mysterious dogs, and eventually cats, play an integral part in the story.
Koontz often quotes Eliot but in this case the quotes are a part of the story.After I finished this I found myself pondering how I even survived my first read of this book without having a heart attack.
A few minutes past one O'clock in the morning, a hard rain fell without warning. - opening sentence of THE TAKING.My favorite character in The Taking is a doll which just cracks me up :-) I also like the T.S. Eliot quotes shared throughout the story and Koontz finishes The Taking in a very beautiful & thought-provoking manner, giving the reader a feeling of hope.There are multiple Koontzisms to be found in The Taking, including the mentioning of key phrases & Koontz titles.
I can also see why the story may have a polarizing effect on its readers; I quite liked it, but I see why some won't (I don't count that as a point against the story, mind you).In the end, however, it is a book that I would recommend to fellow fans of horror.
This was my first book by Koontz, but it definitely won't be my last.
I forgot to take a book on vacation, and ended up having to walk down to a garage sale and take what they had. I've enjoyed some of Koonz's books, so I picked this one. The first couple chapters showed a lot of promise - a lot. After that, every move made by the characters required excrutiating explanation and superhuman leaps of logic. By the middle of the book, I was bored, but stayed until the end because I wanted to see how they supposedly solved the issue. It really wasn't worth the effort.
Although absolutely nowhere near what I believe regarding the flood or the end of the world as far as god-induced apocalypses are concerned (I still think I'm going to be offed by zombies) I thought it was very clever plot twisting entertainment.
And thoroughly thought provoking.
This book combines & explores several classic science fiction themes...not to mention that at a lot of points its down right terrifying.
I recommend this book to anybody who fancy's themselves religious and likes to explore their beliefs from interesting angles.
It's one of those reads that makes me regret how much I don't like the last several books by Mr. Koontz.
While Koontz may not be the world's greatest constructor of characters he can build reliable participants in a story.
Also while some don't like the way the story went (and seem to be bothered by the author's world view) I find it well done and interesting.
(view spoiler)[ The story takes a flyer at describing and end of the world with a somewhat spiritual overview.
We get an end of the world/society leading to a new start story.
Deus ex machina ili alien invasion ...ili jedno protiv drugog.Who will win ?
Odlično je počelo , napeto i stvarno me zanimalo šta se kojeg vraga dešava .
ALI poslije...
ne znam , imam osjećaj da je ovo bilo za kratku priču , a ne za roman .
Sva ta kvazirazjašnjena su mi nekako bila mlaka i ništa što bi se reklo epic , nego pomalo smiješna...Šta ja znam , nije bilo ni dobro , ali ni toliko loše , pa ću u ovom slučaju koristit GR rejting , it was ok .
Moglo je puno bolje.I bilo je just ok.
Molly determines that she was left alive to protect the surviving children, so she and Neil, along with the help of a dog that seems almost human, set out to find the children and start a new world, if they survive.
Koontz focuses on one character - Molly - and consequently the other characters, including Neil, are nonentities and readers don't care what happens to them.
Instead of bringing readers into the classroom with Molly and her father (which would have been a terrific way to open the book) Koontz tells readers what happened halfway through the book, in alternate paragraphs, as Molly encounters her father as an adult.
I rate this a four because it kept my attention and didn’t bore me, though there were times I did have to put the book down because of the creep factor with reading it mostly at night.I have come to acknowledge that all of Dean Koontz books are weird and his imagination can be sometimes scary.
It just ended all the weird fungi, the rain, the huge ships in the sky, all gone in a matter of hours and all the dead have disappeared too.
But the book ends on a happy note, you will just have to read to find out what happens.
Dean Koontz shows his tremendous writing ability throughout this book.
This is another one of Koontz' many books which are nearly impossible to put down until you have finished reading.The story starts with Molly being awaken in the night of the night by a torrential downpour.
Dean quickly advances the story as Molly and her husband, Neil, begin to figure out what is happening to their small town named Black Lake.
Despite the terrible circumstances, Molly and Neil remain hopeful that they might make it through this experience.This is a must read to any fan of Koontz.
Kootnz hinted at some important sub points with her mother that never got developed either (like the quasi visions of her protective mother later).The book is a straight up sci fi with lots of alien creatures, fungus, walking dead, war of the worlds undertones.
But I just felt that it was also not developed enough and almost seemed like quick fix ending rather than a well thought out approach.Overall, was a typical pick up at the airport paperback.
You will read this book quickly and fill quite unfufilled at the end.
I'm not sure what "shelf" to put this book on.
I'll start reading a passage and realize that this is not at all stuff, images, that you want to have in your brain forever more, and I'll skip to the next page.
Maybe it's from reading all those vampire books when I was twelve which now means I have to sleep with a comforter stuffed around my neck.
This is what becomes of an omnivore reader who just can't help reading.
Anyway, this book was weird, yucky, eeep gross and will come back to wake me up in the middle of the night.
Not the best Koontz book I have read-while ,yes the suspense is there, but the descriptions are too long--really good but too detailed and LONG.
So good that you find yourself being suffocated by the humidity and plants, mold, etc growing all around.
After reading some reviews, I went into it looking for something different from the pure horror of the book.
Yes, I would put this in a category of horror rather than his usual suspense.
Some people who reviewed this book talked about the religious undertones...most in a negative way.
Scared beyond wit's end but knowing that they are not going to give up without a fight, the couple pack up supplies and venture out into the darkness to discover if any of their neighbors are still alive and who would be willing to take up arms against an enemy who has yet to show himself.
As time trudges slowly on and Molly and Neil uncover the atrocities perpetrated by this alien species, they find their priorities changing as they begin a new fight for survival.
Taking elements of all the great science fiction classics, but giving them a Koontz twist, you just can't help but want to read more.
Honestly I bought the book thinking it was about a kidnapping for some reason (I must have had it confused with another book), imagine my surprise when war of the worlds breaks loose in the first few pages.
to keep reading and know what in the world is going on.
I think so, especially if you like disturbing/end of the world type stuff.
But keep in mind if you are new to Koontz he has written many books that are WAY better so don't be turned off by this or think this is as good as it gets, because it is not.
It was like he presented his publisher with a 700 page manuscript and his publisher was like 'ah, the types of people that read your horror books only like 450 pages max' There was so much texture and substance to this story that moved at the right pace and then all of a sudden in one chapter the climax occurs and then the last 10-20 pages tie loose ends.
The ending did not do the story justice!From now on I'm going to put Stephen King horror novels on the back burner and get into some Koontz
It has been many years since I have read anything by Koontz.
It reminds me of a child learning a curse word for the first time and over-using it to make himself seem more mature...
but is is precisely the overuse of the word that demonstrates just how immature the child is.
I fought MANY urges to stop reading this book because I did feel invested in the characters.
It had an, "I've-got-the-answer-to-all-life's-questions" feel to it and I promptly made a note to myself not to buy any more Koontz.
I really enjoyed this book.
It is difficult to write about it without giving too much away, and I think the book will be better with the element of surprise.
This book starts with an uncharacteristic rain storm in California, in which the rain has mysterious properties.
We follow the main characters, a couple, who are trying to save their lives while uncovering terrifying properties of an unimaginable foe.This book is engaging and suspenseful.
Read this book quick, before someone spoils it for you.
I liked Koontz from the book Velocity, but what was this?!?
The book is written very slow-paced because of word choices that just don't flow easily.
Also, what's up with the word groups of 3 or more that pop up everywhere, for no good reason, like "Glistening.
Fair to say I didn't like this writing style.
Sometimes, though, it was all getting a bit far fetched, like seriously, Molly and Neil's sole purpose in life was to rescue all the children with the help of a dog?!?
Seriously?!Fair to say, again, that I didn't really like the story either.
The last Koontz book I'll read. It's all dogs all the time. It's a tired motif. And Space Alien Satan didn't do it for me either.
The two main characters had interesting back stories and there wasn't too much detail given about them, which kept the pace fast (I'm not keen on lots of background info).I had no idea this was an alien invasion book when I picked it up but that, mixed with horror, is right up my street!
It was a bit slow towards the last third and in my opinion the book was about 80 pages too long, plus I'm not sure there was a good enough explanation for the aliens to suddenly withdraw from Earth.
However, overall it was a good mix of horror with a bit of sci fi thrown in.
Koontz is one of my favorite authors because of his uncanny ability to tell things from all angles!!
I understand the trauma thing, but usually DK has more depth than that with his characters.Sooo, overall I did enjoy this novel, but it is not on my list of favorites by Dean Koontz.
If someone is a diehard fan, then give it a go, but I would recommend something else for first-time or intermittent readers of Koontz novels.As always, if you read this whole thing THANK YOU and BLESS YOU for taking the time.
The cover had a lot to do with that due to it's striking color and eerie connotation and the back cover made it sound like a novel I would love..."On the morning that marks the end of the world they have known, Molly and Neil Sloan awaken to the drumbeat of rain on their roof.
For within the misty gloom they will encounter something that reveals in a shattering instant what is happening to their world...something that is hunting them with ruthless efficiency."As I began reading this book I felt more and more this was going to be a great novel and around a third of the way through I was as happy as Tiger Woods at a porn star convention.
He has spent all of his life as a recluse talking to his dogs so maybe that's taken a toll at his state of mind :) But okay, seriously, this was an interesting read that will probably have Koontz's fans torn and won't be likely to get him new ones.
If you want to know what the hell it is that's going on, you're gonna have to read the book :)If I have to guess, I'd say that Dean Koontz hates the world we live in.
