https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/17379520-complete-works-of-fyodor-dostoyevsky
Back in October, Oyster (an awesome e-reading service) put out a notice saying it was done and that service would end on Christmas Day of all things.
Oyster is dead; one more tribe of Goths slaughtered by the Amazon Imperium (i.e., https://newrepublic.com/article/12636...).
As my final Oyster read, I chose the 1100-page unabridged collection of Dostoyevsky edited by one C.J. Hogarth and published in 2010.
As someone with Russian blood coursing through my veins, I'm well aware of how Dostoyevsky stands within the Hall of Heroes.
One day I might have all the great Russian writers read.
Dostoyevsky complete works is an awesome deal. This is another one of the must haves and if it's not on the list of books to read in your life time, it should be.
La novela El Doble, de Fiódor Dostoyevski, es una obra que en lo personal lo puedo resumir en una sola palabra: brillante.La obra fue publicada en 1846 y trata sobre la vida social y laborar de Yákov Petróvch Goliadkin, un introvertido y gris funcionario ruso que es rechazado por la rígida sociedad zarista.
A partir de ahí el protagonista entra en conflictos psicológicos por su personalidad débil, antisocial, que trata de aparentar lo que no es.Al siguiente día al ir caminando se encuentra con una persona físicamente idéntica a él, el otro señor Goliadkin, a quien le brinda hospedaje en su casa.
A classic, of course!A deep look into Russian living and thinking in the time of Dostoevsky. A tale full of passion with an ending that is distinctly Russian.
Such a gathering of great literature pieces for one author i can not but hail most of the moments i spent reading it.
However it gets more interesting as you progress and eventually you are drawn into a drama to the point that it becomes hard to put the book down.Again quoting from the book: “It chronicles the life of 19-year old intellect Arkady Dolgoruky illegitimate child of the controversial and womanizing landowner Versilov.”The book consists of a lot of ideological content between the old way of thinking and the new point of view of the youth of 1860's Russia.Arkady's development, his rebellion, his love of and conflict with his father Versilov, his living independently, his relationship with others, his first feelings of love for a woman, his adventures, and immaturity in dealing with problems, his evaluation of others and himself, all sum up the pains of growing up.
Dostoyevsky again shows his ability to write dealing with relationships and characterization of people making them come alive in one's eyes.
I downloaded this ebook to read Notes From Underground on my phone when away from home while reading it in the anthology Sixteen Short Novels. There's little to excite any sympathy or empathy, but as perhaps the first existential novel it's intellectually interesting as an example of what a novel can do and for it's influence on writers that came after. I used Sparknotes liberally to help me weed through the narrators ramblings and make sense of what the author is trying to say.
