https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/18718848-mosquitoland
"I am a collection of oddities, a circus of neurons and electrons: my heart is the ringmaster, my soul is the trapeze artist, and the world is my audience. It sounds strange because it is, and it is, because I am strange." Before anyone wants to tell me - yes, I know that John Green did not invent a new style of book. But he is well-known enough that he's good to use in comparisons.So I'd say you would like this if you enjoy John Green's books, particularly TFiOS. This is the kind of book where
Conversations feel like another opportunity for the author to show how witty and snarky Mim is.I've read a number of reviews since finishing this book that all say something like "I liked it but just didn't connect for some reason" or "It's well written but there's something I can't put my finger on".
Mim is a flat cardboard cutout used as a mouthpiece for the author's philosophy and snark.I said the characters in The Fault in Our Stars didn't feel like teenagers and some people got pissy because I was implying that teens weren't smart/wise/etc., but I'm starting to think that's not what I mean anyway.
(3.5) still not sure how I feel about this one yet...
I really enjoyed this book for what it was-- a book about a girl going on a journey to find herself, both physically and mentally.
Watching her journey is addicting and you grow to love her, even though you can blatantly tell she has her flaws.
I was in love with this book because the writing was incredible.
Although I felt like the end of this was just a little bit anti-climactic and as far as road trip books go, this was slightly unrealistic, the book's writing and characters make up for it.
100 out of 5 stars. I have no words right now to capture how I feel about this book, but damn, I almost cried at the end when I realized my time with these characters was over. David Arnold is The Real Deal.
Anyway, the point I'm trying to make here is that Mim was not raised knowing much of anything about her Native American heritage.But even today, there are times--most notably when I wear my war paint--when I really feel that Cherokee blood coursing through my veins, no matter its percentage of purity.
They all serve purposes that are woven into Mim's journey to Ohio, allowing Arnold to touch on a variety of topics such as mental illness, personal accountability and even rape.There's a lot of that goes on in Mosquitoland and it's pretty much impossible for me to go into it all without writing my own book, and I've already written so much more about it than I thought I had in me, so I'll just leave you with this: Read it for yourself.
While I applaud your attempt at trying to be as devastatingly intelligent & witty as the great Green Giant, it is evident that you are trying way too hard.
Stop trying to be sooo intelligent, sooo witty, and sooo profound, cause, newsflash - I'm not buying it.
Sincerely, a very peeved, very tired, and very hungry, J-reezy(PS - your depiction of a teenage girl makes me personally insulted.)(PSS - I am always going to refer to this book as a "knockoff John Green novel")(PSSS - road trips don't work like that.)
What a weird yet kind of wonderful little book.It is a coming of age story dealing with broken homes and medicated minds.
Of running away only to find out you are running home.
Of facing a society with many dangerous perils, but where a few genuine diamonds in the rough more than make up for it.Sometimes it felt like the book was trying to be too whatever it was trying to be, but I think the characters you meet and the experiences they have more than make up for it.If you love YA.
If you love road trips.
Find all of my reviews at: http://52bookminimum.blogspot.com/Hey look, it's a book everyone else is rating 4 or 5 Stars. That means I'll love it, right?  I guess I missed the memo that stated orange is no longer the new black. Apparently orange has been replaced with mental illness. Mosquitoland was (unintentionally) the third book I've read in two weeks that tried to tackle the "crazy" . . .  Yeah. However, there is one thing that seems to always earn a 5 Star rating from me:  Road Trip!!!!! I
Find all of my reviews at: http://52bookminimum.blogspot.com/Hey look, it's a book everyone else is rating 4 or 5 Stars.
I guess I missed the memo that stated orange is no longer the new black.
Apparently orange has been replaced with mental illness.
Mosquitoland was (unintentionally) the third book I've read in two weeks that tried to tackle the "crazy" .
However, there is one thing that seems to always earn a 5 Star rating from me: 
Road Trip!!!!!
I love road trips.
It gets a lot better than Mosquitoland.
If we judge the quality and success of novels by how completely they allow us to temporarily step outside ourselves and inhabit a new skin, then MOSQUITOLAND is an incredible book and a tremendous success.
I loved every minute of my time dwelling in the consciousness of Mary Iris Malone, MOSQUITOLAND's compulsively puking, half-blind, world-judging, odyssey-going, often-infuriating, wounded, vulnerable, precocious, hilariously quirky heroine.
We read books to experience this sort of wondrous, fractured, manic, magical madness.
WHERE THINGS COME BACK by John Corey Whaley, LOOKING FOR ALASKA by John Green, A SNICKER OF MAGIC by Natalie Lloyd, and THE SECRET HISTORY by Donna Tartt all spring to mind as debut novels that heralded the arrival of a fully formed writer into the world.
I don't even know where to begin. This book is as weird, wonderful, and unforgettable as its title. Mim is such perfectly drawn teenager: whip-smart, hilariously observant, and almost heartbreakingly vulnerable. Her voice is irresistible, and it will be singing in your head for weeks (months? years?) after you finish this ridiculously awesome book. One of my all-time favorites.
It took me a little bit to get into this book but when I did, I fell in love with the characters so much.
Mim was so original and different and everyone else was just as interesting.
The writing style is insanely awesome and I can't wait to read more books from this author.
The overall road trip aspect was fairly unrealistic but I didn't think that was a big deal.
I was so engaged in the characters and I loved the story.
Overall, I loved this book.
I was so sad when I finished it because I wanted to keep reading.
Breeding with my favorite person ever on my favority favoritest website (goodreads) ever!!!Honestly, I just laughed and cried throughout this entire book.
Full review posted:Just trying to explain to you what mosquitoland is, is probably impossible bc the book is like someone got the letters of the alphabet and threw them in the air and just shrugged and walked away BASICALLY I DON’T KNOW WHAT THE BOOK IS- It’s about a quirky, edgy teenage girl that is //not// okay- Mim is honestly a collection of oddities, from her defiance of following rules to camping out with homeless boys to throwing up on demand, honestly no one knows what on earth she’s pla

Okay, so not only did I just intensely dislike the main character (I don't think you're supposed to?), but there are some extremely problematic issues of cultural appropriation in Mim's use of "warpaint" (justified because she's "part Cherokee") and debasing of a homeless teen with Down syndrome, whom Mim and her friend actually take to a veterinarian when he gets sick and the nearest clinic is closed.
Aside from those problems, I strongly identified the character of Mim with the character of Holden Caufield - it's her against the world and the world is full of phonies and assholes - which is not a good thing to me (but may be a good thing to some!).
Booooooooooooring zzzzDetails of how bored I was coming soon. :/
More like 4.5 stars. "Mosquitoland" is UNCONVENTIONAL. Unlike any other young adult novel I've ever had the pleasure of reading. "I am Mary Iris Malone, and I am not okay." She might not be the most "normal" girl in the world but she's definitely the bravest. There were some minor incidents/details that irked me (like Mary's crush on Beck) but overall, I thought "Mosquitoland" was a beautifully-written coming-of-age story full of sass, wit, and unexpected warmth. P.S. I love Walt! He's the cutest thing. Ever. :) "Hey, hey I'm Walt." Aww. :)
I couldn't understand it between Mim's rambling metaphors, whimsical lists and other quirks.)Pros:Surprisingly, I liked this writing.
I think for such fantastical writing, I was expecting more substance.This whirlwind of whimsical paragraphs doesn't just hide the lackluster plot, but makes it hard to understand at all.
At one point, there’s actually a car crash and I could not tell.
There was a lot of mumbo-jumbo about flying and soaring and how to tell up from down.
In Conclusion: Really gorgeous and whimsical paragraphs, but not a lot of substance.
I love this novel. A road trip book about a wild child girl named Mim Malone....self-discoveries, philosophical thoughts and spoken word, human observations and interactions, trails and tribulations, and realizations and revelations of oneself...embark on one unforgettable journey to Cleveland, Ohio to see ailing mother from Mosquitoland aka Mississippi.
I so badly wanted to love this, but I just didn't. I couldn't get into the writing style at all and I found a lot of the things that happened to be too unbelievable to enjoy. Womp womp :c
But as the story progresses, we learn more and more about Mim that leaves us in shock.Mosquitoland is a book about coming of age and leaves the reader wanting more.
But none the less the story is great because as you continue reading you continue to learn more and more about Mim through her letters and the experiences that she goes through.
All in all, Mosquitoland is an excellent read for anyone who loves literature, it tells a great story is such a unique way that can only make the reader leave wanting more.
Whelp...that was adorable.
I'm just going to go curl into a corner now and try to process my feelings.
I am usually very picky about road trip novels but I did like this one.
The main character is quirky without morphing into a manic pixie dream girl.
The plot was a little sparse but still enjoyable,your typical coming of age novel.
Mim's relationship with her dad was unfortunately very realistic.Overall this is a great book with whimsical yet believable characters and important life lessons.
* fingers crossed* Buy, Borrow or Bin Verdict: BuyNote: I received this book for free in exchange for an honest review.
Fell in love with the young MIM, who sneaks out of school after overhearing her dad and step mother talking about how ill her mother is. She is fearless, feisty, and so likable. So, this sneak peak definitely did what it was supposed to do, give is enough of the story to go out and get the book. And I will.
That being said the humor of this book goes hand in hand with the tough situation that Mim is facing.
"I am Mary Iris Malone, and I am not okay."This book starts off with Mim leaving on her journey to find her mother.
Mim's journey isn't just about finding her mother it's about discovering herself as well.
It's about a girl who is hilarious but also really loving and caring.
It's about a girl who finally finds people that understand her and because of this she discovers so much about herself.
I don’t read a whole lot of YA, but the voice of this one captured me right away.
Like Hazel in The Fault in Our Stars, Mim (Mary Iris Malone) is a lovably sarcastic oddball – she describes herself as “a young Ellen Page” à la Juno – with some hidden issues that come out over the course of the book.
I especially liked the quasi-epistolary format: Mim is writing a journal in the form of letters to Isabel.
Especially for a first novel, Arnold balances humor and serious themes very well.Favorite lines: “At some point, and I don’t know when, I accepted isolation.
Books Twitter giveaway.
You’re unique and strange and beautiful and funny and emotional and just brilliantly weird in the best possible way.Reason #2: David Arnold’s writing is incredible.
I love her so much that she’s made it onto my short list of favorite characters ever.Reason #4: You are the definition of perfect story telling.
I just want to list all the best adjectives to describe you.Reason #5: This is what my book looked like when I finished.
This is what a book looks like when you LOVED it wholeheartedly.The bottom line: Reasons are hard.
Mim and the whole novel really, are extremely witty and philosophical, to a point where I stopped caring, where I skipped all the yadda yadda and wanted the main character to come to a point.
But this felt like filling the pages for the purpose of filling them.
It felt like the story stopped dead and some subplots stumbled forward to keep the pace going.
While I really appreciated some characters and details (especially Walt), it felt like the author got lost halfway through and didn't know how keep the story going.Find more of my books on Instagram
I added a 2015 Nerdy Book Club shortlist shelf (6 weeks early) just so I could put this book on it. Mosquitoland is an incredible book because of the voice of its protagonist, Mim, who is maddening, strange, hilarious, and honest. A funny book that will make you cry. An emotionally heart wrenching book that will make you laugh. Memorable.
A beautiful book from an astoundingly talented writer. Look out for this one, guys. It will knock you down and drag you around. By the heart.
I liked that the whole Poncho Man thing wasn't just something that happened one minute and then completely forgotten about the next.
So, there are people in this book, (most likely) including Mim, who have mental illnesses, but this isn't a mental illness book.
There should be more books like that.
Also, I love road trips, so this book was immediately pretty great because of that alone.
The only thing that I didn't really love was the ending.
I can't wait to see what he comes up with next!PS Can we all just take a moment to appreciate the fact that I've finally finished a book that isn't romance.
More like 4.5 but I felt weird giving it just 4 stars but a full FIVE is something I rarely hand out.
From the "Final Thoughts" section on my review:Mosquitoland was just delightfully offbeat in the most charming of ways.
Mim is a heroine wherein no adjectives can quite pin down the essence of Mim. She will test your patience but you cannot help rooting for her on her journey.
David Arnold is a brilliant author who DEFINITELY brought out the big guns with his refreshing and vibrant debut.
What next, David, WHAT NEXT?
I cannot wait to see what else he can do.Read my full, detailed review on my blog The Perpetual Page-Turner
