https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1963140.My_Five_Senses_Big_Book
These words really resonated with me, and helped me connect with this book.
The book walks through the five senses with children, through the eyes of a little boy.
He is very young, and I would say preschool age and learning about his five senses.
I can see myself using the pictures and having the children guess what sense they would use to figure out what it is.
I would recommend this book to young children, probably the preschool age.
The boy in this book looks very young, around that age.
Great book for young children! I used this book for the theme of the month. One of the activities they did for touch/feel: they made a picture using oatmeal, sand, salt, and pasta. After the art project, we had a chance to talk about all the different textures.
Summary: This book is about the five senses, hense its title (: It describes each sense individually and when we use them every day.
Evaluation: I thought this was a cute book and would recommend it to read with younger elementary students.
Teaching: I could use this book in science class when talking about observations as we make observations using our senses.
I could also use it to introduce a writing prompt in an ELA class and have students pick which sense they think is the best and discuss why.
Reading Level: 1.7 (Lexile: 590)Interest Level: K-2nd gradeGenre: Nonfiction, InformationalMain Characters: A boySetting: NAPoint of View: NarratorThis is a nonfiction book in which the author’s purpose is to educate the reader on human’s five senses.
The book tells the reader how we use that sense and why it is useful to our daily lives.
After the read aloud we had a class discussion about our five senses.
We also discussed things that might happen if a person losses one of their senses.
We talked about what the disabilities are called if you lose one of your senses such as being deaf or blind.
The illustrations are clear and go along with the facts, the content of the books vocabulary is understandable for young children to understand.
The book gives wonderful examples on how each of the senses are used in everyday activities that children could relate to such as "When I bounce a ball, I use three senses.
I see, hear and touch" and "When I look at the moon and stars, I use one sense.
I would make an activity with a chart labeled : I see, I hear, I taste, I smell, I touch and have cut out squares with different pictures and the children would place the appropriate picture under which sense they would be using.
Book Title: My 5 Senses by Aliki Description: A young girl describes each sense and the body part that corresponds. Focus: Using the 5 senses as a resource for adding details to strengthen writing. Teach: W.1.5 With guidance and support from adults, focus on a topic, respond to questions and suggestions from peers, and add details to strengthen writing as needed. a. Introduce, read, and review bookb. Review 5 senses c. Discuss how writers can use their 5 senses to help add details in their stori
Focus: Using the 5 senses as a resource for adding details to strengthen writing.
Teach: W.1.5 With guidance and support from adults, focus on a topic, respond to questions and suggestions from peers, and add details to strengthen writing as needed.
a.	Introduce, read, and review bookb.
Review 5 senses c.
Model & let students provide examples using the book as a mentor text.
Expected Outcome: Students will be able to add details to strengthen their writing by using the 5 senses.
Readers will be able to “see” what is happening as they are reading.
The Vocabulary is appropriate for young children and will have children thinking about the different senses they use.
This book is basic however a teachable tool for young children in a preschool setting learning the functions and purpose of these senses.Durning center time have centers set up for practicing the using your different senses.
Encourage children to use their vocabulary to describe what they experience at each station.
Have different items for children to smell, hear, taste and see.
Each one can lead to many discussions among the children as the explore the different materials that you provide for them.
I think this a great book. I think that this would be a big help if I teach about senses. This book is very engaging because it explains the senses, its function through a body part, and different actions. This book is very detailed in having children see why your senses are used in different ways. I think that even when it is a little long if the teacher reads it with enthusiasm the class would make a great discussion out of it.
I thought that this was a really cute book to read to teach the five different sense. What I really liked about this book is that it not only talks about the five different sense but it talks about situations where you may use more than just one sense at a time. I also really enjoyed the illustrations.
I think this is a great book to teach children about their senses. We learn about eyes and ears, the nose, the tongue, and fingers. All of these help us with our senses. Children will learn that senses make you aware, you are always using your senses.
My four year old is learning about his senses. This book did a good job of introducing him to them.
The author provides different examples to make children relate more to the story he uses everyday usage of our five senses like hearing birds chirp or smelling freshly baked cookies.
He also uses examples like touching a dog tasting ice cream and seeing fireman.
Although it is a short book is contains useful information for children to discover.The illustrator made the pictures so that everything else in the background is plain and only the boy is standing out.
More specifically written next to the examples of our five senses and I believe that is so that we know which sentences belongs to which picture.
This book teaches children what body parts they use when they use their senses.
It is a good introduction to using your five senses and why it is important to use them.
I would use this book before teaching about science experiments.
I would read the book and have the students point to their eyes when talking about sight, and their ears when talking about hearing and so forth.
I would remind the students of this book when performing experiments.
I would also leave this book in our classroom library, so the students can go back and reread it and use it as a reference.
Summary:This is a book about our five senses.
This book talks about each one of our five senses individually.
This book talks about how we use our sight, touch, taste, hearing, smelling.
I think it was really cute and I loved the illustrations throughout the entire book.
I think this book would be great for children.
I think it is extremely important to teach students about their five senses.
This would be a great way to introduce them by reading this book.
You could have the students talk about their five senses and they could track all of theirs for the day.

My Five Senses is an informational big book that describes the five senses through one main character.
Other objects, animals, and people are introduced when he is giving examples of how he uses his senses.
This book is a great introduction to the five senses for young students.
The repetitive pattern and the many examples allows for the information to really sink in.
I would use this book in an early education classroom with a sorting activity.
After reading, I would take the examples from the book and have my students sort the pictures underneath the appropriate sense.
Summary:This book is about all of the five senses.
This book not only talks about the five senses and what they do, but it also teaches young children how to use their senses in the appropriate ways.
The book also provides examples for students on what different senses could be used for.
I liked the fact that it provided examples for students to follow so that they can better understand their senses.
Teaching points:I think this would be a great book to use to introduce the five senses to a self contained special education class.
They could go around the room and use their different senses to test them out.
Category: Informational TextAwards: N/AGrade Level: K - 2Summary: 'My five senses big book' goes over the five senses.
I goes on to tell readers what you can do with each sense and how they help readers.
The book also informs the reader what part of the body uses which sense.Review: It's a quick and to the point informational text.
The book gives all the basic information about the five senses in a way younger children can relate to and understand.Activities: 1.
Identify the five senses and what you can do with them.
Identify which body part uses which sense.
My Five Senses is a book about a young boy exploring his five senses, both individually and at the same time.
This book's main character, the young boy, is culturally diverse.
As he explores the world around him, it encourages the child listening to do the same.
The book points out many every-day or generally common things and activities and explains which senses are used to experience it and how this is done.
Using examples that are commonly experienced makes it easy for children to relate to and understand.
This book is great for physical development as young children play and explore their world with their senses.
Pre K- 1st grade3.
My five senses teachers readers about their five senses and the ways that we use these senses everyday.4.
This book is very easy for children to understand and they can learn a lot from it.
The vocabulary is very easy to understand allowing the reader to get the most out of the book.
The illustrations in this book are colorful and inviting.5.
I would use this book in my classroom to teach about the five senses.
This is also a really good book for beginning readers so I would definitely use it for teaching reading.
Awards: (None)Appropriate Grade Levels: Pre-K to 3rd GradeSummary: This book essentially describes the five senses and all the things that can be perceived through them.
It starts out with the simple things they can all do and progressively becomes more and more in-depth as the book goes on.
Review: I think the book does a wonderful job of showing children all five of the senses and what they can all do.
Summary: This book is about the five senses. It teaches young children about how we use them, what that looks like and examples of them, like smelling a rose. Also, there are good illustrations to represent the senses.Evaluation: This a simple read for children who want to know what are five senses are. Also the illustrations are great.Teaching Point: I would use this book for kindergarten. Then, I would have the students find a way to use their five senses within the classroom. They could draw pictures of what they came up with.
This cute picture book teaches young children about the five senses and how they affect their body and contribute to everyday life. The illustrations are clear, eye-catching and go along with the facts and the content is easily understandable for young children. My first impression about this book is how simple it is. No new information and nothing revolutionary but the way it goes about explaining the five senses is understandable and simple enough for a young child to read themselves.
It also explains how the many times you can use more than one sense at a time to observe the world around you.I like this book for beginning readers.
I think that it can be used to introduce the five sense in a familiar manner for young children.
I like that it gives examples of things that can bee seen, heard, felt, tasted and touched.
I would use this book to introduce the senses or to enhance a unit on sound vibrations.
Since vibrations can be seen, heard and felt it would be a good way to introduce multi-sensory use.
I thought this book was a great idea for introducing young students to their five senses. The text repeats itself often and gives multiple examples of when you use your five senses at different times and all together. I also liked the back cover of the book because it gave a visual representation of when you use all of your senses.
This book is absolutely one of my favorites to read when speaking about the senses. Its clear images are eye catching, self-explanatory, and relatable to each child. Many activates can be related to this book: dancing activities, cooking activities, and a five senses walk. Where children use each sense to explain something they see.
A Very simple book about the five senses and how they work. Great examples throughout on hearing, seeing, smelling, tasting, and touching. This book is also multicultural in the appearance of the main character which I enjoy because I believe diversity is important in our society today.
his book teaches children the five senses in a understandable way for children to comprehend. The Vocabulary is appropriate for young children and will have children thinking about the different senses they use.
Grades: 1-2Genre: Informational This book is really cute to teach little readers about their five senses. Not only do you learn more about your five senses, touch, sight, hearing, taste, smell you also learn what you can learn with those senses. The pictures were cute as well. Rate 5-5
I read this to the Toddler Boy in Spanish, and the next day we talked about it in English, and now he knows what you use to see, hear, etc. I wouldn't mind having this one in English and Spanish so the kids can go back and forth when they're learning Spanish and how to read.
