https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/77730.Weirdos_from_Another_Planet_
"That's one of the remarkable things about life. It's never so bad that it can't get worse." Calvin
Oh! Book Lord, please give me more more more of this!!!
Some of my favorite ones:Calvin: SUSIE, QUICK!
RRGHH!Susie: Oh, right.
Too bad you can't stay home to enjoy it.When you're old, you'll be sorry you never took advantage of days like these, but of course, that's far off, and in the meantime, there's lots of work to be done.Yep, you'd better get to work.
Maybe you'll get home in time to watch the sunset… if you can stay awake.
So long!Golly, I'd hate to have a kid like me.----------------------------------------------------------------------Calvin (to Hobbes): Ever sit and watch ants?Look at this one.
Sometimes I think the surest sign that intelligent life exists elsewhere in the universe is that none of it has tried to contact us. ~ CalvinCalvin's wit keeps amazing me. I'm glad I get the funny points . . . while not having him right in my household. Being a tiger is more than just stripes, you realize. ~ Hobbes
I don’t want to make Calvin & Hobbes political (in fact, I pulled it from the shelf because I knew it wouldn’t be), but there’s an ongoing joke throughout this collection that is eerily well-suited to Trump’s administration.
I think the image we need to create for you is, ‘repentant, but learning.’ You know, show some humility, and present yourself as a regular guy trying to learn the ropes of a difficult job” (28).
Of course when Dad comes running upstairs and sees the mess, Calvin blames Hobbes.
Anyway, if you need some laughter, I recommend anything Calvin & Hobbes.
The full article of the review is available in this link:http://bookunderthesun.blogspot.sg/20...Ever read the comic in pullout section of the newspaper?
There are a few compilations of Calvin and Hobbes comics and Weirdos from Another Planet!
For example, Calvin decided to leave Earth for Mars because he came to the conclusion that adults were leaving the Earth dirty so that the next generation will clean up after them.The art used in the comics is also varied, with different styles meant for different imagined scenario.
Watterson's style preferred the simple, with buttoned eyes and a few strokes to get the statement across the comic.
Calvin and Hobbes: Weirdos from Another Planet!
Calvin counters with words as relevant today as in 1988, because, "Life's a lot more fun when you're not responsible for your actions." This collection of cartoons is funny, imaginative and is an exaggerated view of the life of a child.
There is no question in my mind that Watterson was an imaginative child and probably got in a lot of serious trouble during that time.
We should be grateful for that, as he grew up to be an outstanding cartoonist and this book proof of that.
Book Details: Title Weirdos From Another Planet!
(Calvin and Hobbes)Author Bill WattersonReviewed By Purplycookie
It seems that Bill Watterson said everything that he needed to say on the subject by the mid 90s so guess what - if anybody wants to buy me an early Xmas present - they are more than welcome to buy me this.
In fact, this'll do for the next 4 Xmases.
Either that or y'all can club together and buy it for me now.Suffice to say, I absolutely adore this book and all it contains and I thank everything and everyone responsible for bringing it into my sticky grasp.'nuff said.
This is my first copy of Calvin and Hobbes comics as a book and I am thoroughly thrilled to have my hands lay on it. I have always been an ardent lover of Bill Watterson's creativity, passion and beautiful sense of values which has taught(still teaching) the wonder beneath the quotidian life. This book is a valued possession which I know that I would cherish for a lifetime(and perhaps add it in my Will and pass it on to the next generations to come).
Palate cleanser.
Picked this up while waiting for my son to finish a library program... timeless humor that speaks to children and adults.
Trochu slabší než předchozí dva díly, témata se už sem tam opakují a je tady dost málo slíbených poděsů z jiný planety, ale jinak je to stále skvělé. Hodně mě baví "kampaň na pozici Calvinova otce" a opakované rozebírání kandidátovy strategie :)K podrobnějšímu popisu odkazuji na můj dřívější text u knihy Pod postelí něco slintá.
Preferable to the "Threats Joke" that was prevalent in "It's a Magical World."The cover is wonderful, and immediately drew me in-to read through it, as it's been a while since I've seen this one.
With everyone remaining in their homes, far from cultural hotspots, and focused heavily on the dream of working all day and coming home to do nothing/watch tv, Calvin -while sometimes more interested in tv- seeks out alternative sources of existential stimulation found in his adventures with Hobbes.
Which of us are weirdos from another planet? Well that depends on which side of the rock you're on.I wish Calvin and Hobbes had managed to establish a dialog with the Martians. They might have had some solutions for the problems that face us.As usual with these smaller collections, the Sunday strips are not in color, and they lose out thereby. But once again, there are unique drawings on the endpages and covers.
This was one of the few Calvin and Hobbes books I didn't have as a child, and I bought it (among many other books) to give away as a wedding favor. So I read it first. I'll try to make sure Iggy gets it! He loves Calvin and Hobbes! And he'll probably grow up to have a big vocabulary like I did thanks to these comics.
This was the first Calvin and Hobbes book I found and since then they have inspired me to buy almost every book in the seres. the funnest comics to read are when it's all in Calvin's mind. I love these books because they've always given me laughter over the years.
This book is amazing! I like this book because it has a lot of little stories in comic book form. This book is about a little kid named Calvin and his plush toy Hobbes. I recommend this book who like comic books.
Here are two more things I love about about Calvin and Hobbes. Everyone thinks Hobbes is a stuffed animal! That funny. Also that nobody believes Calvin and Hobbes when they go on a wacky adventure such as - like in this book - going to Mars.
"Hi I'm wondering if you sell kegs of dynamite." I love this quote because it shows how imaginative Calvin is and how funny he is.I love Hobbes because he is so civil and normal.
I love how Hobbes thinks tigers are the best.A theme i noticed in the book was just how rough life can be sometimes.
Calvin recognizes life situations more then the normal 6 year old and he realizes how tough it can be sometimes and I thought that was deep.
Calvin is only six yet he realizes how many challenges there are and how good it can be to have a friend.
It was a very good book.
Spending an ordinary Saturday afternoon with Calvin and Hobbes on Weirdos from Another Planet.
What I really loved about this comic strip collection is you could have ongoing intellectual stimulation through daily conversations among the characters.
And sometimes it touched the core essence about life and daily struggle too.This is I quoted from Calvin's journey to the planet Mars:"When you see earth as a tiny blue speck in infinite reaches of space, you have to wonder about the mystery of creation.
Surely we're all part of some great design.
Surely everything fits together and has a purpose, a reason for being.
Doesn't it make you wonder?"Such a humble feeling.
Fun collection of Calvin & Hobbes from around 1988. I love the strips where Calvin is sharing his dad's "poll results," to see whether or not the dad can survive another "term" in Fatherhood. (Very fitting for 1988, too, as it was an election year). This is also the era when STUPENDOUS MAN is born, which becomes a stock Calvin motif throughout the duration of the comics.
Cool!
A Calvin sólo se le puede puntuar con 5 estrellas. Y punto.
Love this iteration of C&H! Always amusing, and well illustrated.
The continued adventures of an imaginative boy and his tiger. I feel that this is the collection where the comic strip really starts to hit its stride.
...aren't we all.
Been far too long since I reread this.
More antics from Calvin and his tiger pet Hobbes. Recommended to all ages.
I love Calvin & Hobbes.
Muy bien. Me encanta la forma en la que el autor capta la forma de pensar de un niño y de lo imaginativo que este puede ser.
