https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/91885.A_Medicine_for_Melancholy_and_Other_Stories
"The stranger was drawing and drawing and did not seem to sense that anyone stood immediately behind him and the world of his drawings in the sand... Twenty, thirty yards or more the nymphs and dryads and summer founts sprang up in unravelled hieroglyphs. And the sand, in the dying light, was the colour of molten copper on which was now slashed a message that any man in any time might read and savour down the years. Everything whirled and poised in its own wind and gravity." Whenever I take a b
But still, i felt very upset and depressed for many reasons the day I decided to read this book and it cured me with its strange magic.The title story is beautiful, the other best ones in my opinion (except of All Summer in a Day and The Smile which I read at school) are In a Season of Calm Weather, The Wonderful Ice Cream Suit,The Shore Line at Sunset.
And Bradbury himself is the man drawing on the sand from the story In a Season of Calm Weather.
Here is a group of stories by one of the masters of the science fiction field.A young woman is bedridden with a baffling illness.
The boy fears that his sickness is much more serious.An after-the-apocalypse story is about an America where everything, and anything, from the past is to be hated and destroyed, including a famous painting that is based on a woman's smile.
A group of human colonists are stuck on Mars because of a war on Earth.
Traveling across America by train, a businessman impulsively decides to get off at the next stop, whatever it is.
Some of these stories are so great. I read All Summer in a Day as a kid and it has haunted me ever since. But a lot of the stories in this collection are skippable.
Вот попробуйте представить себе, что книга может быть коробкой леденцов, в которой каждая конфета неповторима по вкусу.
Старик постригает газон, а мир уже изменился навсегда.Или вот, вы когда-нибудь видели, чтобы один костюм стоимостью в пятьдесят долларов мог осчастливить сразу шестерых мужчин?
Это отличное лекарство от меланхолии, ей-ей!Или вообразите себе страшную болезнь, как в рассказе «Горячечный бред», болезнь, в которую никто не верит, но которой вы неизлечимо больны.
Что если он поклялся себе убить того единственного, кто однажды сойдёт на станции, на которой никто не сходит?
And wonderful images like the calliope bed and the vanilla ice cream suit.My favorites include The Dragon The Marriage Mender The Smile A Medicine for Melancholy In a Season of Calm Weather"Hush!
So people gladly pay to have someone listen to them."-Ray Bradbury, A Medicine for Melancholy"you know what attics are?
"There were a few spots of beauty in it."-Ray Bradbury, The Smile "So the shore-line stage was set, and in a few minutes the two men would meet.
He began to draw incredible figures along the sand."-Ray Bradbury, In a Season of Calm Weather
This collection is full of stories that are sometimes scary, sometimes sad, and sometimes puzzling to the emotions.
Most of the stories in this volume impressed me, even the ones that talked about rockets and Mars, which seemed to be every other one.
A few of them are incredibly memorable like The Wonderful Ice-Cream Suit because of its erie but comical quality.
The Town Where No One Got Off is yet another memorable story that made me wonder what would happen if I just got off the train at a town in the middle of no where without telling anyone.
A lovely collection of stories. Bradbury's writing is like an inviting pool I want to go swimming in. There is an immersive quality to it. I think my favorites from this bunch are the ones involving Mars, but there are plenty of other interesting subjects covered.
Наверное, лучший сборник Брэдбери. В нем фантастика занимает только половину, остальное — чистый реализм. Простые истории про то, как художник палкой чертил картины на песке, а прибой их смывал. Про то, как шесть бедных мексиканцев скинулись и купили один белый костюм. Как молодые супруги поругались из-за скрипучей кровати, а потом помирились. Как в городе перестал ходить последний, еще довоенный, трамвай.Ну и Марс, конечно, и космическая романтика, и ужасы всякие. Не без этого. Тоже чудесные вещи. Но лирический реализм в исполнении Брэдбери - это что-то вообще непередаваемое, это как Чехов, помноженный на Искандера. Бешено рекомендую.
Todas esas cosas tontas, pequeñas… no son importantes. Pero son las cosas que me vienen a la cabeza a las tres de la mañana. Los relatos que me gustaron son:*Sueño de fiebre. *El pueblo donde no baja nadie.*Eran morenos y de ojos dorados. *Todo el verano en un día. *La sonrisa. Realmente me gusta el estilo de Bradbury, pero el resto de los relatos no los disfruté al 100%
there were some stories I liked better than others but the one that will stick with me is The Dragon. This book is one of my used book purchases that I picked up because I recognized the author. I tend to not like short stories but these did the job of entertaining but not making me long for more. They were just right.
A generally pleasant read, though the quality of the stories varies, as is probably inevitable in a collection like this.
Bradbury's prose is usually rather pretty, and there's nothing too annoying or cringe-worthy, but some of the stories get a bit close to being filler.As a small aside, I really enjoy the datedness of some of Bradbury's science fiction--for instance, the regular assumption in his stories that we'd have colonies on Mars by the 1990s.
One turns on the very obviously pre-MADD assumption that drinking makes people better drivers (oh, those loveably drunk Irish!).
The other asks us to find it hilariously, disturbingly weird that people can have dangerous collisions riding bicycles (not cars--oh, those loveably uncivilized Irish!).
Es muy común asociar el nombre de Ray Bradbury a la ciencia ficción, sobre todo por su obra distopica Fahrenheit 451.
Bradbury jamas se considero un escritor del genero, el se catalogaba como un cultivador del genero fantástico, un simple cuenta-cuentos creador de mundos imaginarios, y la prueba de ello se ve que obras ambientadas en planetas como Marte o Venus no se explican como se consiguieron atmosferas respirables, si sufrieron un proceso de terraformación o los medios por los cuales los seres humanos consiguieron llegar y posteriormente asentarse.
Esta antología de brevisimas piezas es la mejor prueba para descubrir al Bradbury mas imaginativo y fantástico.Reseña completa aquí: http://gymnopedieygnossiennes.blogspo...
This was so good! I now remember why I consider Bradbury to be one of my favourite short story writers. I'll be reading everything he's ever written over my lifetime because he's just superb. Loved many of these stories. There was even a mermaid!!
I put this in SF but Bradbury's stuff is hard to categorize.
For the adult summer reading program at our library, I had to read different types of books (for instance, a graphic novel, a book set in the pacific NW, or just a mystery).
I had heard Ray Bradbury, and specifically All Summer in a Day, discussed some on the podcast I listen to, What Should I Read Next.
So I decided a collection of Ray Bradbury's short stories would be different.
I really thought I may have read short stories before, but besides memoir-type essays, I still can't come up with anything so I think this was actually a valid choice.
A collection of 31 Bradbury short stories from the late '40s into the '60s.
Obviously when these were penned, space travel was just in its infancy, but even back then, the notion of newspapers being delivered to Mars by rocket had to have been eye-rolling.As such, despite Bradbury's excellent prose, one is continually left with the feeling that the author simply has no science background, has done no research and is banking on us simply believing that someone hid a rocket in the garage (?) capable of not only flying his family to Mars to escape a nuclear war (recurrent theme for Bradbury) but also carrying enough food for them to subsist.
Our textbooks had short stories and one of those stories was Dark They Were and Golden Eyed.
The day I read that story was some sort of turning point in my literary life.
Dark They Were and Golden Eyed has haunted me all of these years.
Was it really as magical as I remembered or had the years between me and reading it built the story up in my mind?
It really is just as magical as I remembered, along with so many other stories that are in this book of short stories.
Read this book!
Probably my least favorite Bradbury book I've read so far, though that's not to say I didn't like it.
And two or three of the stories came out sounding pretty similar: the old husband with the far-flung, poetic ideas, and the nagging wife trying to bring him back to earth.
The last story, though, "The Day It Rained Forever," was one of his best - the imagery, the sensory details, the melody of music and nature.
Also maybe including one of Bradbury's most lifelike, independent female characters?
That's probably a lot of why I liked it.
This collection has some real gems, but they don't show up until about halfway in.
The opening stories, to me, were slow and disappointing.
I felt like they were more descriptions of moments than they were stories with an arc.
But later in the collection, he seems to hit a stride, particularly with the sci fi ones, one or two of which are in the Martian Chronicles.
So, my recommendation is to read the Martian Chronicles first, and then, if you're really craving more, check this out, but keep your expectations low, particularly for the first half.
It's easy to think of Bradbury as a genre writer, but this collection of stories highlights the range of his talent.
There are a few science fiction stories, set on Mars and in a post-apocalyptic future.
A few are subtle, creepy horror.
A couple are fantasy or magic-realist, but the rest are straight realist fiction, about the human condition and human relationships.
Some are flawed, but considering that he wrote several hundred stories over the course of his career, you have to expect a clunker now and then.
A solid collection of Bradbury working in his favored format, the short story.
Siempre me ha cautivado la prosa de Bradbury, que siento que se luce especialmente en estos cuentos. Historias cotidianas se mezclan con escenarios de ciencia ficción y fantasía, donde no son protagonistas, sino que un ambiente para reflexiones. Me deja maravillado con paisajes de Marte, una sirena varada y el sonido de la lluvia en un arpa.
While there are some great stories in here, the preponderance of them is too much of Ray Bradbury's worst tendencies--thin characters, wasted non-drama, a romanticism with space and rockets that feels plain gooey. Combine the best of this book with the best of "R is for Rocket" and you have one tight collection of short stories.
I mean, it's Ray Bradbury, of course every single word is amazing. Even if melancholy is the subject, you can't help but smile warmly as the words ooze over you. "The Wonderful Ice Cream Suit" was adorable. "All Summer in A Day" broke my soul.
I want a physical manifestation of this. The boot itself. Idc if it's the hardbound or the paperback issue.
Great piece. The melancholy motive, flowing within the nuances of fantasy, philosophy and short- stories completed by the sublime notes of human nature. Exactly, Ray Bradbury.
A master storyteller at work. What else can you say?
Ліки від меланхолії не подіяли, незважаючи на промовисте ім'я фармацевта
5+ за рассказ "костюм цвета сливочного мороженого"
In a Season of Calm Weather - 2 StarsMedicine for Melancholy - 3 StarsThe Wonderful Ice-Cream Suite - 3.5 Stars
What a lovely book
