https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/246468.The_Jordan_Rules
I’m sure Smith wanted to get this point across (that winning can come even with a lot of soul-crushing adversity) but he does it the wrong way: by telling a good story in a bad way and accidentally coming to the point by explaining facts from only one perspective.This is most apparent in the NBA Finals chapter where, it seems, Michael Jordan stops being the anti-christ and starts passing the ball to John Paxson.
When it talks about how poor Scottie Pippen’s family is it makes the reader feel bad for the all star.
It angers a reader when it talks about how Michael would refuse to pass the ball to his open teammates and the Bulls would lose because of it.
I discovered that by reading this book that many teammates of Jordan did not like him because of how he refused to pass the ball when he was losing.
They might not tell me but they will defiantly tell the others of the group about their feelings toward me.
lms for TBH!!!! so bored at school -___-
I had no idea that the Bulls first championship season was so dysfunctional.
Jordan was selfish and hadn't realized yet that he couldn't win championships without the help of his teammates.
This was the first season they implemented "the triangle" in an effort to force the ball out of MJ's hands, but he kind of refused to use the offensive system and I got the sense they never really mastered it that year.
The entire team was frustrated with MJ and his special treatment.
Pippen and Paxson were nervous about their contracts all year.
Stacey King basically quit the team.
Q1: What were some of the main factors that lead to your great success?Answer 1: Certainly my coaches, Doug Collins, and the best coach ever in basketball, Phil Jackson, had systems that I fell in love with and worked well in.
I played some of my best basketball that year, and that championship gave me the motivation to go after more and more.
Q6: What is your life like after basketball?Answer 6: When I came into the league, I knew absolutely nothing about business, it was not an interest of mine.
However, on the court, I do feel like I am the best to ever play the game.
Finally read this book, you know, 25 years after it was relevant, but it's a great look into that Bulls first championship team of the 90s. At first I thought it was amazing that it didn't harm Jordan's reputation more, but then I realized that books are for nerds, and there's no place for nerds in sports.
TITLE: THE JORDAN RULESYEAR: 1992AUTHOR: SAM SMITH#OF PAGES: 378INTENDED AUDIENCE: SPORTS FANSMAIN ISSUE: STRUGGLES OF HAVING AN ALLSTARSETTING: MICHAEL JORDAN AND THE BULLS IN CHICAGOS FIRST YEARS OF STARDOMMAIN CHARACTERS: MICHAEL JORDAN, PHIL JACKSON, AND JERRY KRAUSESTORY SUMMARY:THE CHICAGO BULLS AQUIRED MICHAEL JORDAN AS THEIR FIRST DRAFT PICK IN THE 1984 DRAFT.
MICHAEL JORDAN WAS SOON TO BE KNOWN AS THE BEST BASKETBALL PLAYER IN THE WORLD.
ALTHOUGH CURRENTLY, THE OWNER OF AN ASSOCIATION CAN CHANGE THE ENTIRE TEAM IN JUST A FEW SHORT PHONE CALLS.
THE OWNER OF THE BULLS WAS JERRY KRAUSE.
WHO WAS KNOWN TO CHANGE, NOT ONLY THE TEAM, BUT ALSO THE GAME.
If you're interested in team psychology or the life of a pro sports team (or just a Bulls fan), this is the book for you.
On a much deeper scale, what could be called a scathing analysis of Jordan in this book can also be viewed as a validation to the presence of the narcissistic, manically competitive shadows that complement the light of the gifted, excellent performers who are blessed to have achieved notable fame for it (in and out of sports).
Here is a book full of fun anecdotes and several engaging theses (Phil Jackson is a genius! Jerry Krause is a douchebag! Stacey King is the fat guy who sucks!) and mires all of this in shitty writing. I don't understand how a chronological, journalistic history about 15 people you basically know personally can somehow have a muddy chronology and manage to confuse, but Sam Smith managed to do it. Three stars basically by virtue of the fact that this is the minimum score I could give a book about the 1991 Chicago Bulls.
Smith does a good job of giving insight into the frame of mind that the 1990-91 Chicago Bulls were in, going into and through the season. I like how every player and coach is given their own profile apart from Jordan, and how they are revealed as humans whose job is to play and coach basketball, not as the 2-dimensional people that they are portrayed as by sports media. Also, how they managed egos, agendas, and moods to win the title. Was a quick, yet informatively entertaining read for me.
Smith paints this picture (shows) with extreme detail, and thus makes it so the reader has a clearer picture of Michael Jordan, the man, as opposed to Michael Jordan® (the media’s portrayal of Michael Jordan).This is the story of the 1990-91 World Championship Chicago Bulls.
The Jordan Rules: the Bulls come together as a team over the course of the season, vanquish (beat) their demons, and eventually succeed in winning the NBA championship against the Los Angeles Lakers.
Finally, here was a third person account of what went on behind the life of mystical Michael Jordan and the Chicago Bulls.
One would be hard pressed to find more honest account of events than from interviews of fellow players, coaches and league executives.It's easy for us NBA fans to watch regular season and playoff games and create our own narratives as to what takes place in the lives of these players as they fight for championships.
I have developed a bigger appreciation for his coaching and mentoring skills.I would recommend this book to all the fellow NBA fans who seek a deep understanding of this wonderful game.
the book was worth reading for me if only because it's about one of my all-time favorite teams, and because i had never read it when it first came out, even though it was the source of much discussion and controversy back then.
it's also interesting to remember the context of that team--the prevailing idea of the time that no MJ-led team would ever win a title, juxtaposed with the knowledge that he ended up with six rings.
in the epilogue smith talks about how good a guy horace grant is and frankly, this did not really come across until he told me that at the very end.
This book details the internal workings of the Chicago Bulls during the 1990/91 season as they won their first NBA Championship.
What emerges is a fascinating look at the personalities, both on and off the court, of the Chicago Bulls players and management.
Michael Jordan comes across as not just competitive but super-competitive, seemingly sometimes at the expense of personal relationships.
Horace Grant comes across as too much of a good teammate and too unselfish for his statistics to reflect what he could actually do on the court.How much of this is true?
Det beste med den er alle anekdotane, menneskene og forholdene desse imellom den beskriver i Jordans første mesterskapssesong, og sjølv om det har gått over 25 år er mange av historiane vel så interessante å lese i dag.
No er den først og fremst eit unikt innblikk i 90-tallets definerende basketlag, og sesongen dei endelig nådde toppen, for mange av tinga som først vart avslørt her (MJs nådeløse konkurranseinstinkt og brutale lederstil, måten han satte lagkameratane i skyggen både av og på banen) er ting kven som helst som følger NBA litt tett har fått med seg i dag.
This book gave a lot of insight into Michael Jordan "off the court", meaning at practice, in the locker room, his home life, and the way he interacted with those people in his circle.
His competitive streak and lack of patience with other players is well documented, but this book sheds additional light on how hard he pushed himself, and others, to achieve excellence.
Sam Smith gives some perspective from his teammates and what it was really like to play alongside the greatest basketball player of all time, through the good times and the bad.
Any fan of Michael Jordan will find this an interesting read.
The Jordan Rules is a book that gives you stories of Michael Jordan that you cant get from watching highlights. There are some of his highlights, but it tells about baseball, his work ethic, and other facts and stories that give you a greater understanding of the greatest basketball player to ever live. It tells about the passion, like when him and his teammates would go at it in practice and why. I was interested throughout the whole book, and would recommend this to anyone who considers themse
The Jordan Rules is a book that gives you stories of Michael Jordan that you can´t get from watching highlights. There are some of his highlights, but it tells about baseball, his work ethic, and other facts and stories that give you a greater understanding of the greatest basketball player to ever live. It tells about the passion, like when him and his teammates would go at it in practice and why. I was interested throughout the whole book, and would recommend this to anyone who considers themselves a basketball fan.
It's easy to lose perspective.And so that's how LeBron James became the reason I read a nearly 20 year old book about Michael Jordan.
It seemed to me that Smith went into the book with an impression of Michael Jordan as a gifted, but selfish player who would never win in the rugged NBA because he was a one man team who couldn't trust his teammates.
Smith seems to constantly be alluding to players viewing Jordan in a negative light, painting dissension amongst the ranks, and making Jordan look like an all-around bad guy, while the Bulls continue to dominate the NBA en route to winning the championship while losing all of 3 games in the playoffs.
Interesting look at how high-level teams and organizations function, removes the halo a bit from one of the all-time greats and shows him as brash, impetuous, gifted, and very human. Shows how a championship team was forged...book is fairly complimentary of Phil Jackson's management skills and personality. Book jumps around a lot at the end and gets a bit confusing. Its pretty in-depth in terms of the day-to-day and week to week grind...no writer could have this level of access today, so its definitely unique in this context.
Interesting.The alternative title could have been, "Why, Yes, Michael Jordan Really Was An Unpleasant Teammate." It's also a fascinating glimpse of Phil Jackson before he became the Zen Master, as it seems as if he was barely holding on to the reins of the team; and, even then, liked to play little mind games. It's crazy that they managed to be cohesive enough to be as successful as they were.
A classic on how champions are made, if not in the elegant manner one could think from the outside. Not being a star like Jordan makes one struggle when trying to understand some of his actions throughout the winning season. And that's what it makes the book most interesting to me, as it then focuses on how the rest of the players react to being close to the only man who can bring them close to a ring, while at the same time suffering as diminished role players.
Jordan Rules offers an insight into the magical seasons of the early 1990s. I learned many things about those early Bulls (I wasn't born then), especially the antics and personality of Michael Jordan. Smith reveals the many terrible things about my role model including his gambling addiction, bullying of teammates (especially young guys), hatred toward management, and much more. Read this, if you're looking to turn back the clock to 90s basketball.
It has some good content but I found it very poorly written. It reads like something that was written in a great rush, which is exactly what happened. The stories of what was going on behind the scene at the time are pretty interesting, although obviously they don't resonate in 2018 as they did in 1991.I wouldn't say it's ESSENTIAL reading, but if you're a big Michael Jordan fan or followed the NBA closely in the 1990s it's probably worth a read.
Érdekes, de túlságosan részletekbe menő, nem eléggé könnyed olvasmány. De kétségtelenül izgalmas "belehallgatni" az öltözői beszélgetésekbe, mélyebben belelátni a játékosok életébe, lelkivilágába stb. (Ki gondolta volna, hogy Jordan már 1990-ben gondolkodott a visszavonuláson, még ha ebből hátránya is származik!)
I'd never read it before, and it's amazing. It's hard to think of another sports book (and I've read a ton of them) that has this much insider detail. I remember it being considered an MJ hitjob when it came out, and he does not come across well in the book, but in the end I think it's honest, and what MJ has revealed about his character since then confirms that.
I could give this three stars, but sticking with two. It's just really boring. Page after page after page about how Jordan alienated his teammates and shot all the time. Mixed in are some interesting stories and a seemingly game-by-game chronicle of the season. I skimmed large sections.
Jordan Rules is fantastic. Extremely ‘inside baseball’ and with language that feels a bit dated now, this is still an extraordinary window into the first championship for the sport’s greatest ever player. Worth a read for anyone in interested in basketball, leadership or sports history.
I thought this book was a good book because it basically was talking about how M.J did his job and how he did his job well. This book is basically all about his life and how he came up as a little Chicago kid that wanted to do something with his self.
This was a good book for any basketball fan. It really gives an inside look at the 90-91 Bulls team that won their first title. I thought it was well written and interesting seeing how the team dynamic changed through the season and into the playoffs.
Not nearly as fun as I had hoped. Jordan was selfish and everybody disliked him, but he shared the ball in the playoffs. Craig Hodges was a glue guy.
