https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/313834.The_Book_on_Leadership
Para meditar profundamente en el liderazgo bíblicoLibros como este deberían ser una lectura obligatoria para todo joven y no tan joven que esté aspirando al buen deseo de ser un líder en el cuerpo de Cristo.
El liderazgo bíblico nos sacude las estrategias del mundo actual y nos sumerge en el impacto de una vida transformada como la de apóstol Pablo.
Es Cristo a lo que todo líder debe aspirar imitar no exteriormente sino por una transformación genuina del corazón por medio del Espíritu Santo y La Palabra.
Solo siendo como Cristo haremos un bien a la Iglesia.
This is an incredible read that focuses on the life of Paul.
THrough the life of this apostle, Macarthur describes several traits of what makes an effective leader.
My favorite paragraph in the whole book?"God is still bypassing the elite.
He's leaving the proud intellectuals in universities and seminaries, and He's looking for clay pots who will carry the treasure of saving truth with humility.
By using frail and common people, God makes it clear that the power is His, not ours.
The fact that God can make spiritual leaders out of such unsightly clay jars is proof of the greatness of His power.
MacArthur sometimes seems to get a little redundant and at times he also draws more out of the Biblical texts he cites than may really be there. On the other hand, he provides many important principles and invaluable lessons for Christian leaders. If you are looking to grow as a leader, this book should help you.
“The Book of Leadership” by John MacArthur is an excellent book for anyone that is looking to develop the qualities of a leader in a Christ like way. John MacArthur is a pastor at Grace Community Church in California and he is the President of Master’s College. MacArthur explains the qualities of a leader that are displayed throughout the New Testament in Paul’s life, so people can apply those same principles in their lives. He also provides us with ways to be a strong leader and Godly leader.
“The Book of Leadership” by John MacArthur is an excellent book for anyone that is looking to develop the qualities of a leader in a Christ like way.
MacArthur provides ways to assert your leadership and effectively lead people, so that the followers do not rebel or resist your God appointed leadership.
I would recommend that any person who feels like they are being called to a position of leadership or that is already a leader read this book, so they can know how to be a leader in an effective, biblical and Godly way.
I strongly dislike books regarding leadership especially when it comes to spiritual leadership. Mainly because I realize how far I fall short of God's calling. Nevertheless, this book ought to be read by every Christian as we strive toward holiness and desire to grow in our leadership abilities. This book will challenge you, it will encourage you, it will upset you, and hopefully (and most importantly) it will cause you to run back to Christ! I strongly suggest this book by Dr. MacArthur.
"Leadership for the Christian always has a spiritual dimension." "A true leader inspires followers". "To put it simply, leadership is influence." "Real leadership seeks to motivate people from the inside, by an appeal to the heart, not by external pressure and coercion." If I were in a leadership book this would be one helpful book.
While very informative and truly inspiring. JMac can get a little dry sometimes. However, I was expecting biblical insights on leadership, but what I got was so much better. You will walk through the life of Paul, examining his life from multiple perspectives, and you will discover that Jesus gave us a true example of leadership through the life of Paul. Really encouraging.
I found this pretty affirming. It gives a pretty extensive list of necessary leadership qualities, and I tend to agree with that list. I'd offer this book to anyone placed in a position of leadership or hopeful to become a leader in the near future.
Biblical based. Talks about the key aspects of Pauls leadership
The writing is excellent and focused on Paul's leadership but seemed to be those most common platitudes found in every book on leadership.
John MacArthur brings out leadership principles from Paul's life. This book helps to understand what the leadership qualities are for a follower of Christ.
ExcelenteEs un libro excelente. Lectura obligada para los lideres de hoy no solo aquellos q conocen a Cristo, sino para todos.
It's a very down-to-earth, biblically-based leadership book. This is probably the strongest of the bunch.
Very good book true bible teacher from God almighty .
So much good material in this book. It's changed me in ways that I always wanted to change. Highly recommended for any kind of leader!
Excellent principles. Looking at the life of Paul is a biblical and persuasive analysis. The book could easily be reduced in length by about 20% and still keep its power.
Great. Biblical. Clear.
I tried to get something useful out of this book, but my non-christian background kept getting in the way.It's more of a religious book than a leadership book.
Insightful and easy to follow.
Self assessment of your Spiritual Leadership, guideThe author has you assesses your true Spiritual walk with Jesus by comparing ALL your actions in accordance to The Word of God!I purchased this book because, I, have 30+ years of military experience and consider myself a very good leader of men, however, my awakening of a true Spiritual leader was very eye opening!
I must admit that ALL my leadership gifts received by my Heavenly Father was not me at all, but He through me!ALL church leaders should read, acknowledge, understand, and pray for Gods revelation of the wisdom provided in this book with The Word of God!
Not your typical book on leadership. The book looks at leadership from a biblical perspective using the apostle Paul and his 2nd letter to the Corinthians as the basis. There are 26 principles that the author goes through in detail culminating in the ultimate principle "A leader is Christlike". This book is well worth the read and once you are finished gift it to another leader in your life who you know could benefit.
3.5 The leadership qualities manifested in the life of the Apostle Paul were well explicated. Although there were slight digressions at the latter section, this book is nonetheless beneficial for both aspiring and experienced leaders.
Well-known pastor and Bible teacher MacArthur looks at leadership through Biblical view, focusing primarily on the Apostle Paul, and specifically on three key events in Paul's life: his shipwreck on Malta, his letter to the Corinthian church he had established, and his final published words.The account MacArthur gives of the shipwreck was very interesting because I had never read it so closely or heard it discussed in such detail before.
A book examining the complete Biblical record for accounts of contermporary transportation technology would be fascinating.
Great analysis of Paul, 2 Corinthians and the last chapter of Acts.
I feel there is a little redundancy through the book and it staggers a bit from time to time hitting the same topics while trying to establish differing points/leadership lessons.
I recommend this as a good analysis into Paul's habits and leadership style.
I feel the book reviews Paul better than it provides applicability to us today in leadership, but learning Paul's traits will provide beneficial for any leader, and we all lead someone..
It's a book best read one chapter at a time so the reader can ponder the applications, not just read multiple chapters at once.
Wonderful insights on what it really means to be a Christian Leader. How different the qualifications the Lord has for His leaders; than the world has for its. MacArthur is one of my favorite authors and he doesn't disapoint with this book, it is written in a way that pulls you into the story and yet it is done in a way that accurately preveus the heart of Paul and how God used him so powerfully. Loved every minute of this book.
I've never heard of MacArthur before this book, as it was a library find, but he gave many biblical examples to incorporate into leadership skill set. I feel it could have been a bit more in depth in some areas, but it's a great overview into the life and leadership of Paul. great overall read... recommend it totally.
Dr. MacArthur uses Biblical justification and history to explain the basis for Godly leadership. I also enjoyed the miscellaneous geography and historical information added to explain the Biblical aspects more clearly. As he says, I'm "... enthusiastically optimistic..." that you will enjoy this book.
John MacArthur is known for his integrity, and speaks at leadership conferences across the U.S. The twenty-six characteristics of being a good leader are pulled from the life of Paul when he rebuked the Church at Corinth, and sailed to Rome as a prisoner. This book is an excellent combination of Paul's trials being broken down and explored, as well as wisdom for becoming a Christ-like leader.
Almost a year later... I am a procrastinator when it comes to Career Development plans, and this book was part of my 2012 CDP. But a great discussion on leadership by MacArthur, following the example set by the apostle Paul. 26 Principles! Worth a second read for a more personalized application. I am sure I will put that off, too :)
As far as books on leadership; Christian leadership, this is it. Don't waste your time with Maxwell or any of the other 'corporate success must equal Christain success' type of leadership books. This book is a study of the Apostle Paul and his God given, God led leadership style and effectiveness. You will find very practical application for your own life and ministry.
