https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/36809135-where-the-crawdads-sing
All the Stars!!!!!Can I just say that I loved everything about this book and leave it at that!?!Where the Crawdads Sing is a story of resiliency, survival, hope, love, loss, loneliness, desperation, prejudice, determination and strength.
This book goes back and forth in time to tell the story of Kya Clark a.k.a. the Marsh girl.
Oh, how I loved this book!Kya was a young girl when her Mother walked away without looking back.
What motive could she have?This book had a little bit of everything that I love: a likeable main character who pulls at your heartstrings, murder mystery, atmosphere, drama, coming of age, and romance.
Mother Nature has literally become Kya’s caretaker, and deep in a lonely Marsh along the North Carolina coast is where Kya will not only hide, but blossom into a primal independent being, coaxed inside the loyal embrace of an indiscriminate wilderness as she embodies its uninhibited spirit.
To the reader who appreciates nature’s effortless beauty honored in fiction; to those who seek a love story every bit true as it is tender; to the one who needs a tantalizing murder/mystery to spice things up, and for those who tend to root for the underdog in hopes she’ll someday sparkle like the gem she is—this one’s for you.
4.5 stars rounded up .A story of survival, of what the depth of loneliness feels like when a young girl is abandoned first by her mother, then her four siblings.
Atmospheric is an understatement, and I don’t use that word often because it seems overused sometimes but this place, the marsh permeates just about everything that is meaningful in this story beginning with Kya’s realization “And the marsh became her mother.” The marsh becomes her life, her livelihood, the essence of who she becomes through her self learned expertise of the insects and the birds, her art.
I'm typically skeptical of books that are hyped to high heavens and end up on every book club list for months straight, not because they aren't worthy, but because I can let me expectations get the best of me and keep me from fully enjoying a wonderful book.
This book exceeded my already high expectations; it emanates a quiet power, a slow drawing in and connection of reader to book, one that I found myself able to get lost in due to the lush atmosphere and the depth of emotion.
Full review to come.
For me to rate a book five stars it has to give me something bout of the ordinary, make me feel.
Most of all it has to be a book or contain a character or characters that I won't forget.
Kya, aka Catherine Clark, the Marsh girl is an unforgettable character, abandoned by her mother at she six, her siblings shortly after.
I loved and learned much about the natural world, a different way of looking at things.
A survival story, what Kya has to do it not easy, but since she has little choice it is what she does.
She is one of the strongest and most genuinely likable characters I’ve come across in a long time.While Kya’s story is our main timeline, there is a dual timeline running in 1969 that starts off with the death of town legend and golden boy Chase Andrews.
Kya laid her hand upon the breathing, wet earth, and the marsh became her mother.This, at it’s heart, is a deeply sad but moving story about a misunderstood girl, about abandonment and loss.
Finally, I found the use of dialect distracting to read and often in the same paragraph a character would switch from local dialect to proper English.Sometimes my love of the story or the strength of the writing is enough for me to ignore implausibility and move past a few things I don't like.
This wasn't one of those times.Recommended for readers who enjoy long, descriptive nature writing, and those who have no trouble suspending disbelief.
If I had known these things before starting this book I would have known to skip it, so perhaps my review will help other readers like me.* Thanks to Edelweiss for a copy of this book in exchange for an honest review
Her Pa eventually left her too at a very young age and Kya was all by herself.
They let the sheriff know that they saw Chase Andrews flat out in the swamp under the fire tower.
The sheriff and the Dr. noticed that there wasn't any footprints near the body.
None going toward the stairs or away from the stairs, none around the body and Chase Andrews footprints weren t there either.
This then turns into a murder mystery.I just loved the setting of this book, in the marsh.
I loved Kya the best.
I loved Tate too, who taught Kya how to read and other subjects.
There is a love story and mystery woven through the story, and add art and poetry to that and you have this incredible book.
They were her only friends.Kya has two real love relationships in the book.
Tate she has known all of her life but now that she is older she views him differently, she begins to feel real love.
From the books Tate brings her she learns biology, math, how things grow and change and she is fascinated by the marsh.
Read this book, you will be wonderfully surprised, entranced and feel great about a book again.
The book begins with the story of Kya, a young girl whose mother walks out on the family, leaving the children to fend for themselves with an alcoholic father who is absent most of the time.
When a young man of the same age is found dead, everyone in town assumes it must have been Kya, and fingers are pointed.
Where the Crawdads Sing is a glorious and equally somber coming of age story for Kya. Though she was called to a different life from the one she has always known, how much will her upbringing continue to control who she is?
Barkley Cove, North Carolina- 1969Kya Clark- aka- “The Marsh Girl’ has been abandoned, one by one, by every single person in her life.
Kya will face a challenge like no other, and her fate will rest in the hands of the residents of Barkley Cove, with folks who have taunted her, shunned her, and judged her, her entire life.In 2016-17, there were several stellar novels written, which centered around children or teens raised in a turbulent, ‘off the grid’ environment, living in harsh conditions and under the care of an unreliable, or unstable father.
Regardless of not connecting with the third person narrative I thought this story and the words written were absolutely beautiful though.
I am so happy to say that I was able to get that warm fuzzy feeling that I was so desperately seeking from this book.WHERE THE CRAWDADS SING by DELIA OWENS was an engrossing, moving, heartbreaking and charming coming of age, love story and murder mystery novel all wrapped up into one incredible and delightful story.
Set in the 50’s and 60’s....alternating timelines.....around the North Carolina Coast marshlands ....The 60’s is the story of Andrew Chase - his body found dead: who killed him?...and a courtroom case...The 50’s is completely Kya’s story - from when her mother left - [The Dominate Story].....*Kya Clark*!!It’s Kya we can’t stop thinking about!!!Kya couldn’t read or write - but there is an inspiring coming of age story in here with a few Guardian Angels - so to speak who are ‘for’ Kya. We witness Kya out-shine her neglectful youth.
Really emotionally moving!!!Mystery murder - suspense - coming of age - occasional cuisine meals to remember- Nature at its best...Gulls as friends...Loneliness...heartbreaking sadness - Human connections...&Trust issues...A little romance...Completely captivating: story & prose!!!!
This is an amazing first novel by this author!In the marsh land, near the North Carolina coast, the youngest child of a big, poor family is first left by her mother, her brother and later her father...she is such a little girl and left to fend for herself.... so heartbreaking!This story lets us follow her entire life, a life that is mostly very lonely.Part coming of age story, part love story, part mystery...these characters will really pull you in!I just loved it!!Thank you to Netgalley and G.P. Putnam’s Sons for the digital copy!
Her brothers and sisters were all many years older than her, so they were able to leave and find their own way, while she was forced to remain.“The next morning, Kya took up her post again on the steps, her dark eyes boring down the lane like a tunnel waiting for a train.
He was the town’s golden boy, and since no one in their right mind would ever want to hurt him, all suspicions turn to Kya, who has kept mostly to herself in her dingy shack all these years.“Birds sing mostly at dawn because the cool, moist air of morning carries their songs and their meanings much farther.
I really enjoyed the parts of this book that were related to the marsh and the natural world, but the story itself did not wow me. I am definitely in the minority here - many glowing reviews, but it had a “women’s literature” flavor to me that I don’t personally care for.A nice fiction debut for Owens; just not my cuppa.
This is the story of Kya, a ‘marsh girl’ who grows up isolated from society.
There are a few characters that enter Kya’s life, each having a direct impact on her development and views of the world.
The marsh descriptions, though vivid and atmospheric, felt too much at times and I was lost in these descriptions rather than the story itself.
With that being said, I feel it was fully intentional to have such overpowering descriptions and that is what many readers truly loved and connected with – it simply didn’t work for me.This was a Traveling Friends read.
” Dark and silent, late last night,I think I might have heard the highway callAnd geese in flight and dogs that biteThe signs that might be omens sayI'm goin', I'm goin'I'm gone to Carolina in my mind“With a holy host of others standin' around meStill I'm on the dark side of the moonAnd it seems like it goes on like this foreverYou must forgive me, if I'm up and gone toCarolina in my mind” -- Carolina In My Mind, James Taylor, Songwriters: James Taylor ”The morning burned so August-hot, the mars
Kya was only six years old on the day that she heard the screen door slap shut while she was scrubbing the grits out of the pot, and wondered who was leaving their shack.
And then Jodie tells Kya that he has to leave, that he can’t live there, can’t take one more day of it.
For me, the story felt as if it became a little bit bogged down in the last half of the book, where a mystery is being solved / resolved.A lovely reflection of the beauty that surrounds us in nature, in the still natural places in this world that man has not conquered or spoiled, and the nature within a young girl, a lyrical coming of age tale that feels as wild and promising as Kya’s world.
Here we have it, my favorite book of 2018!
A marsh is a thriving and nurturing place, and it's there, along the North Carolina coast, that Kya lived and survived after being abandoned by her family as a young girl.
Though she loved her marsh dearly, sometimes the loneliness was too much, especially as she grew into a young women.
This stirring, character-driven novel is part coming of age story, part mystery, and part love story — between Kya and two young men who she allows in her hidden world, but most of all, between Kya and her treasured marsh.
It seemed like everyone had read this one already and couldn't stop raving about it. For some reason, despite all the hype, I just wasn't sure about this one—I thought it was going to be like the Jodie Foster movie  Nell , about a feral girl alone in the woods who speaks her own language and somehow gets all tangled up in the real world. While there is a little bit of the girl-against-the-world thing, I needn't have worried. This book is heartfelt, warm, and endearing, and utterly deserving of t
It is definitely a story that will live in my mind for a long time.In the 1950s, Kya is a young girl growing up in a ramshackle cottage in the marshes off the North Carolina coast.
Left to fend for herself, she learns early that she is the only one she can count on, and turns to the gulls and other marsh creatures for companionship, until she befriends a couple who runs the gas and tackle shop where she refuels her boat."Her most poignant memories were unknown dates of family members disappearing down the lane.
At the same time, the print and audio arrived for me from my library.
(Must say, TKAM is my all-time favorite book though.) This one tells the story of 'The Marsh Girl', a 10 year old girl abandoned by everyone, but learning to survive on her own.
We follow her journey from a young girl until the end......but I don't want to say more and ruin this one for others.Overall, I'm glad I read this one.
I do know, that it has pushed me to read my all time favorite book again.
And that's what reading books is all about.
I didn't know a sentence could hold so much.Yes, I'm aware that I'm sharing the very same quote that my bestie used for this book.
But if a quote ever applied to a book...it's that one for this book.The story follows the "Swamp girl" or Kya throughout her life.
Left with her abusive father and brother Kya realizes that people don't stick when her brother also leaves.
Left with her father Kya is forced to fend for herself in the North Carolina swamp.
Booksource: Thanks to my hateful little book fairy.
I had reason to stop over for one night a few weeks ago in Charlotte North Carlolina and how I wish I had been able to spend a week here and explore this state and after reading this book I really want to book a flight and enjoy that southern charm.I learned so much about the marsh and its wildlife in this novel and lovers of nature and the outdoors are going to really enjoy this one.Another great and unique read and feel like I am on a winning streak with all the great books I have read this summer.
Thank you to Penguin Publishing Group who provided an advance reader copy via Edelweiss.This is a very special book about a girl named Catherine Danielle Clark (known as Kya) who lived in a shack in the Marsh lands of North Carolina.
As the days passed, her older siblings gradually left as well, leaving Kya alone to deal with her volatile father.
Tate was out boating at the same time as Kya when she lost direction.
Over time, they shared their love of nature (such as collecting various bird feathers) and he even taught Kya to read.
Pretty close to the beginning I felt an emotional attachment to the main character, Kya Clark aka Marsh Girl.
The author does an amazing job of painting a picture of the North Carolina marsh area where Kya lives.
The story switches back and forth between Kya growing up in the 1950s and the late 1960s when a man is found dead.
The mystery of whether the man was murdered or not wasn't really the highlight of the book as I much preferred watching Kay grow as a character.
I'd definitely recommend this book if you are looking for a novel with good character development and an emotional reading experience.
Fifteen Traveling Friends joined in on this discussion and quite a few of us have added this one to our favorites list.Where the Crawdads Sing is a compelling, insightful and original well-layered coming of age story that also digs deep into the environment surrounding this story.
We meet our main character Kya at a young age and learn how she becomes isolated from the people and world around her.
We became totally immersed in the vivid setting of the marsh and it was like the story was being told and shown to us by it.
This is the most captivating book I've read this year and I am so glad to have picked it up.The story follows Kya Clark , the "marsh girl", as she grows up on her own on the North Carolina coast.
I loved the time spent with Kya on the marsh as she observes nature and makes a life of her own.
The description of the marshes' natural environment is so vivid that is almost a character itself.A wonderful novel that stands on its own, it would make a great selection for book club discussion.
I loved it and highly recommend it!* I read this book with the Traveling Sisters.
Still that is how Kya's story begins and also the whole wonderful story of what is her life.Kya turns out to be a truly remarkable individual and rises to amazing heights regardless of her appalling beginnings.
There are a few people who help her but very few and it is a miracle that she not only survives but that she makes something special of her life on the marsh.There is a love story in this book too.
What a wonderful book, from first to last - perfect.
Coming of age, love story, mystery, social commentary, historical.Kya, aka the Marsh Girl, is the main character, and I connected with her in several ways.
The marshes and swamps of coastal North Carolina are different from my personal natural world, but my love of the outdoors made me feel right at home there.
Emotionally and spiritually, what Kya felt, I have felt in the woods and fields seeing the wonders of nature.
I loved it, and I strongly recommend this book!
“She knew the years of isolation had altered her behavior until she was different from others, but it wasn't her fault she'd been alone.
Most of what she knew, she'd learned from the wild.
Nature had nurtured, tutored, and protected her when no one else would.” ― Delia Owens, Where the Crawdads Sing 🌟5/5🌟This book left me at a loss for words.
Riveting, hopeful, heartbreaking.
The story sucked me in from the very beginning and i enjoyed every minute.
This masterpiece is so well-crafted that I was surprised to learn it is a debut novel.
I eagerly await Delia’s next work.
