https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/36475.Wonderful_Life
Gould calls these animals with their diverse anatomies "weird wonders" and explains that their broad proliferation was possible because the middle Cambrian was a time of filling the so-called "ecological barrel." In other words, it was a time of low ecological competition among animals which ultimately permitted unsuccessful anatomies to flourish for a few million years before the full panoply of evolutionary pressures (natural selection) began to eliminate the less successful designs.
Most of the "weird wonders" that Gould describes have been taxonomically re-evaluated in the previous two decades, and technical developments in systematics (the concept of "stem groups" in cladograms), now show that much Burgess biota, ironically, belong closer to the original classifications of Walcott.
Much of the biota are now considered to be stem groups of modern taxa, evolutionary aunts and uncles.I also found Gould's continued emphasis on the "cone of increasing diversity" to be quite exhausting.
[Actually, one of the most interesting things he said was that he believes that the initial development of life was inevitable; I wish he'd explained that a bit more.:]I suppose this is technically popular science, but it's much more rigorous than anything else I've read in the genre.
His asides about the nature of research, the relationships between different scientific disciplines, and many other topics were often just as interesting as his discussion of the conceptual basis for his work.Unfortunately, this type of prose I found entirely unsuited to writing about the science itself.
His tone, perspective and considerable writing skills make Wonderful Life a wonderful read.The Burgess Shale in the mountains of British Columbia is notable for its rich assortment of 500 million year old fossils.
Gould holds that the Burgess Shale discoveries are representative of the Cambrian Explosion which produced many distinctly different body plans few of which survived.
Amazingly they were able to expose individual layers despite the extreme compression revealing features hidden from Walcott.A central theme of the book is Gould’s belief that evolution is based on contingency not progress.

The Burgess Shale is a fossil deposit of importance equal to that of the Rift Valley sites of East Africa in that it provides truly pivotal evidence for the story of' life on earth.
The Burgess fossils come from the Middle Cambrian Period, around 350 million years ago.
In the late 60s Harry Whittington began to study the Burgess fossils in detail and discovered that many of them beloned to lineages which left no modern descendants.
Stephen Jay Gould has chronicled the story of the Burgess shale in detail.
The Burgess shale did not fit previous theory and was therefore made to fit.
Wonderful Life is pretty, well, wonderful. If your curiosity about the Burgess Shale or the weird and wonderful beings of the Cambrian period needs sating, this book should more than do it. It is quite dense — Gould may have been a popular science writer, but he didn’t dumb it down — but it’s worth the time investment.It’s true that some of the reconstructions of these beings have been challenged since Gould wrote, but it’s still worth reading for his overall theory about the development of life, and much important (and correct) detail about the Burgess Shale.Reviewed for The Bibliophibian.
So he talks about how Charles Doolittle Walcott got everything wrong (except for the names--surely some subconscious tingle was telling him these little animals were weirder than he thought they were) because he saw what he expected to see when he looked at them.
Some of them aren't arthropods at all.This book is also awesome for two other reasons:(1) Gould's enthusiasm (which I admit I found both endearing and infectious) for explaining the creatures of the Burgess Shale to his lay audience.
Once upon a time, when I was on the path to being a geologist, I carved into the moist depths of a sandstone gorge in Clinton County, Iowa, and watched the sand crumble in my hand.
I jarred it, took it back to my lab, and sorted out the grains using a sequence of sieves of varying mesh, matched it to the known sedimentary facies from different depositional environments, and realized its origins.
Stephen Jay Gould performs a really unlikely feat in this book; he makes arthropods as fascinating as dinosaurs! In fact he makes a subject that could be extra-ordinarily dull - the process of taxonomic classification of a bunch of extra-old fossils of small, squidgy animals - into a dramatic and gripping read. THIS REVIEW HAS BEEN CURTAILED IN PROTEST AT GOODREADS' CENSORSHIP POLICYSee the complete review here:http://arbieroo.booklikes.com/post/33...
The Burgess Shale deposits date from the early Cambrian period, roughly 560 million years ago, before the development of creatures "hard parts" that lend themselves more readily to fossilization.
B. Whittington and his brilliant students took another look, they came to realize (over a period of time and excruciatingly painstaking work) that this Cambrian fauna abounded in new phyla, in creatures that are fundamentally different from the (relatively few) lineages we know today.
Gould, nature writer and paleontologist, weaves several story threads: the history of the discoverers and their work; the creatures themselves; and a new look at how life forms develop and change.
I was looking for something that would give me some interesting science history, some interesting details about the life forms discovered at the Burgess Shale, and relate that to our general knowledge of evolution.
I don't know who Des Collins is, I have no idea what a chelicerate arthropod is, and I am clearly not the intended audience!I searched my ebook, and found that "chelicerate" appears 19 times, and this is the third instance.
The Burgess Shale includes, for example, early representatives of all four major kinds of arthropods, the dominant animals on earth today—the trilobites (now extinct), the crustaceans (including lobsters, crabs, and shrimp), the chelicerates (including spiders and scorpions), and the uniramians (including insects).
Wonderful life, indeed!!One of the best science books I have ever read because the story is so extraordinary.
Most of the late Stephen Jay Gould’s published works are collections of his essays but this is a full-length book that tells the story of the fossils found in the Burgess Shale in Canada.
But this deposit held the fossilized remains of small small-tissued animals that lived 530 million years ago, long before dinosaurs or dodos or dachshunds ever existed.
It seems once multi-cellular life began to appear in the oceans of our planet it evolved quickly into a remarkable smorgasbord of forms.
Great book.
Wonderful life.
One of my favourite books. Whenever I read these types of books, or books on history, I feel as though I am in a time machine going back to these places and time periods. Reading this book, I imagined myself wading through a shallow beach discovering and examining all these weird and wonderful creatures. Wow!
This is a pinnacle in popular science writing.
So I could have never thought a book mainly about taxonomical inferences and anatomical definitions would be one of my favourite books.The story of Burgess shale is fascinating, but only if you are as talented as Gould to make it fascinating.
Without his spin, the content of this book can be as boring as 8th grade history book.
Now that is writing genius.Burgess shale oddballs as Gould puts it are breathtaking for any biologist and what they say about the history of earth and life is deeply moving.
It is a must read book if you are into popular science.
So why does the author feel the need to keep telling the reader how wonderful his idea is, instead of simply showing it?
I don't know which claims to retain and which to discard as biased or inaccurateIt makes for an at once boring and exhaustingly defensive read.
When the author sinks to the point of defending paleontology proper against its lack of respect among scientists, I'm just aghast at how petty and argumentative this book is.
Is this a science book or a diary?Wonderful Life has some novel and valuable ideas (the book's overarching points seem sound), but they're buried beneath reams of bias, pettiness, and insecurity.
As someone who has studied paleontology their entire life strictly as a hobby- mostly through children's books and, later, Wikipedia articles- I chose Wonderful Life as my first foray into palaeontological literature, and I was stunned.
Gould is an excellent writer, and, although I was absolutely ready to read 380 pages about worms and tiny arthropods, his words breathed unspeakable excitement into the subject.
Discussion and diagrams of inches-long invertebrates are pillars of this book's ideas, after all.
So, yeah, it's a fantastic read, and certainly the best book I'll ever read about worms.
This is a book primarily about the abundance of life in that had been preserved in fossils in the Burgess shale.Gould writes about the people who spent hour after painstaking hour examining the samples, deciphering the forms and understanding the compressed fossils in this rock formation.
In the second part of the book he writes about Walcott, administrator at the Smithsonian institute until he died, and his error in the analysis in the samples.
I wish more creationist's would take the time to read and absorb whole books like this.
Unfortunately I have not found whole books written from their perspective at this level (or others referred to below).
It was the beginning in a shift in perspective that was afforded by regarding biblical interpretation as malleable.
The "Lord" had placed the constraint of twenty four hours in the day also on a fellow as talented as he.Science, like farming, is hard work.
You get to write it up and enjoy the goods only after you have ploughed the field all day.
This is an account worth reading of the recollections of ploughing.
Great overview on the Cambrian period and how honestly weird life was at that time.
Also gives a nice biography of Walcott, the man who discovered the Burgess Shale.
Even known arthropod phylums such as trilobites give forms that became lost after this geologic time period.Gould gives his biography on Walcott.
Also it explains in detail why the thought processes that were required for the later revision of the interpretations of the fossils were not with Walcott.Gould details seven different "what if?" scenarios about replaying the tape of life.
A "must" read for those interested in the planet, about life, or vaguely interested in the history of science in the USA.
The case in question is the study of the Cambrian fauna of the burgess shale.
Once, it was thought that these animals were only simpler versions of modern animals, however, extended study of these animals found the animals to be several times more diverse than any faunal assemblage today.
Overturning conventional thought that life became more diverse as time went on, it seems that all major groups, and some lineages that no longer exists, diverged early in Earth's history.Stephen Gould does his best to make this subject accessible to all readers, and the lesson it presents is an important.
The historical details around the Burgess Shale are extremely interesting, and gives an interesting picture of academic life and the personal biases that can affect science.
This is a fascinating book about science, interpretation, and the sometimes fractious way of development of knowledge. The focus? The Burgess Shale, located in British Columbia. A treasure trove of fossil findings. Gould's take on this is one person who "imposed" understanding of the meaning of the fossils versus others who proposed a different explanation. Gould is with the "others," and proposes that contingency is an importamnt component of evolution. A fascinating story, with Gould's analysis at the forefront. The book is controversial in its explanation, but that adds to the fascination.
Very interesting, but the edition I read had some information which has been reinterpreted since. Possibly later editions added corrections. I had a great time reading the chapters and then googling follow-ups on the various theories and organisms, and much has changed since the book was written. Still, very useful as insight into the process of discovering and understanding life forms.
A lot of misinformation in this dated book. Not just about the organisms, either, which might be excusable since the book was written before many were re-evaluated, but the whole point he tries to make about the role of contingency in evolution is badly over-stated. Please read newer works about the fascinating Cambrian organism preserved in the Burgess Shale.
This book describes the trials and tribulations of understanding the fauna of the Burgess Shale. I was riveted by the process of actually scraping away the shale to study the underlying parts that were also preserved, like disecting a fossil! Amazing.
Meraviglia, già Gould è il miglior divulgatore che abbia mai incontrato se poi aggiungete la forza e la potenza della diffusione e diversificazione della vita nelle sue molteplici forme, otterrete un libro spettacolare, capolavoro.
Along with the Galapagos Islands, I want to visit the Burgess Shale in Canada. The life forms discovered in the Shale are cause for rethinking life on Earth. Gould tells the great story of their discovery and possible implications for evolutionary theory.
Gave up after 100+ pages. Shame on me for getting bored with science. The lobster thingy isn't a trilobite. Why does it even matter? Can't you just tell me instead of making me read through years of correspondence between biologists?
Not a for fun read. But his main point about evolution being based on contingency is very interesting.
Always look for biramous or uniramous appendages. Always.
