https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/301824.Captive_Bride
This checks my boxes like you wouldn't believe!V A handsome Arabian male V Arrogant, dominant prick (a sheik even!)V AbductionV Humiliation/degradationV Great age gapV Dub con/ non conV Stockholm Syndrome (?)V Wonderful reviewsBuddy read with Jenna, Angelica and Rebecka, with much appreciated mockery moral support from Mammarella.7/1/14: post buddy read gone wrongWell then, all my buddy read partners have bitten the dust, so I'm sure no one objects to me DNF'ing at 65%.
Look at all those 1 star reviews luring us in with the promise of dub con/non con, pedo bear drool, an Arabian alpha Dom and what not.
Suck, suck, suck, suckity suck, suck suck. That's what this book did all the way through. In the 70's, it appears there was a trend for rape or almost-rape romances, where a male was sexier the more dominant he was. Ugh. If someone tried kidnapping me and telling me I would lust after him and I would obey, I'd be guilty of murder in the 1st degree.
And like it's not infuriating enough plot wise, it goes on and on like a delusional maniac, claiming rape is not rape, abduction is not abduction, coercion is not coercion, and it's totally alright to be kidnapped, held against your will, raped, beaten and humiliated by being someone's sex slave because you know what!
Chrissy of course has no idea what a wonderful, romantic fairy tale awaits her in the desert because you remember that pedo Philip from before?
You'll be my sex slave!Chrissy: I'll die before I let you rape me!Pedo: I won't rape you.
This was awful!
So let me get this straight.
She gets kidnapped, forced into becoming a sex slave and is threatened with a beating, yes I said beating, on a daily biases and she is OK with that?
WHAT?He sleeps right there and she does nothing night after night but cry?
She lies there and let him sleep next to her?
The first night I would have bashed him upside the head and he would have been forced to kill me!
Thus ending the story right there...
Did not enjoy this story at all!
I like it its a historical romance and that's how it was back then..I admit he was a little harsh and crass at times but I really did like the ending..Most historical romance novels were like that and I have read worst with actual rape not nearly raped. if you can't handle this book then you should go for that romance candle light dinner thing like harlequin present books, (not hating on harlequin books I love them). But other than that, I thought the book was good and not bad for Johanna's early work
Instagram || Twitter || Facebook || Amazon || PinterestI read this book for the Unapologetic Romance Readers' New Years 2017 Reading Challenge. For more info about what this is, click here.Real talk: that cover. Normally, I hate the rereleased versions of these old bodice rippers, but this is the first time I actually like the updated version more than the original. The vibrant colors, the detail on the woman's costume, the glimpse of desert beyond - it reminds me of the original cover on Victo
They settle into a semblance of non-marital bliss, punctuated by the odd threat of beatings or Christina figuratively stamping her foot.At one point, Christina is actually kidnapped and beaten before being brought to another Sheikh named Ali. He claims he wants revenge for his daughter, who he attempted to marry to Philip's father, Yasir.
If you're a fan of those old-fashioned sheikh/harem novels from the 70s and 80s, and don't care about whether or not your books are politically correct, or if you really liked E.M. Hull's THE SHEIK and want to read an updated version of that with actual sex, then you will like CAPTIVE BRIDE.2.5 stars
I guess what made it OK back then was that the hero is very good looking; he's in total lust with her, and that lust turns to love; and though her mouth says NO, her eyes and body say YES.I actually heard that phrase once in a '70s sitcom, Three's Company, where one of the male characters is giving another male character advice on how to woo one of the female characters.
Real rape is traumatic and destructive, though, and everyone generally knows that, so if Lindsey had written this today, she could never have gotten it published.
Today, a character in a book who rapes is never the hero; he's the villain.
The hero was a maniacal bastard,a pedophile and the heroine was a weak,brainless ninny.God this book is just so awful!!!
No woman in her right state of mind will fall in love with the guy who wil deprive her of her virginity by raping her,this does'nt happen any where not even in the fantasy world.This book is not romantic at all,there's no romance in it,waht little romance it had it was sick and pukeworthy,there's only abusing of a naive and innocent girl by a moron.Infact it's a sin reading such disaster and wasting your time and money.
The only good thing about this book is that it was an excellent example of what NOT to do when writing romance.
Since I'm writing a romance series right now, it helped me to refine my ideas on good technique.More specifically, this book uses Overwhelming Lust, something that I am growing more and more disgusted with.
Lust becomes overwhelming when it is shoved down my throat in such a way that I can't even truly believe that it's happening.
Knowing that this was not going to happen in an HEA romance, I gave it up and am one to better things (hard to imagine I could find something worse).I don't recommend this to anyone.
I recall reading "Captive Bride" and feeling so disappointed and disturbed with it, I wanted to return it to the bookstore.I liked "Silver Angel," another "sheikh/harem captive" romance by Lindsey, so I thought I'd enjoy "Captive Bride" as well.
He rapes her continuously throughout much of the book, but since they both experience erotic attraction to each other it's "okay." The problem I had with the storyline is that I didn't find the hero appealing or truly seductive.
Even for a bodice-ripper era work, it was bad.
I saw no redeeming qualities in the hero.
I've read bodice-rippers that played off decently.
Love that she got her characters out of England, but it still has a huge pet peeve of mine.
The title should have given it away, but I'm sorry, the following just doesn't work for me:I must have you.No!I'll make you want me.
(Proceeds to grope and fondle the girl while she half struggles, half goes Oh my I'm being kissed!
What big hands you have, grandma.)No!
Stop!
I don't want this.
Yes you do.
Then you'll fall madly in love with me, but I won't realize it until one of us is hurt and almost dies.
I love Johanna Lindsey!!
I hate Captive Bride!!
With each 'romance' scene I got more and more angry with the story and just wanted to scream at Lindsey "WHY?!!
How could you have written this tripe, but also written wonderful, romantic stories like Gentle Rogue or Tender Rebel?"Thank goodness her writing has grown and improved since this book was published in 1977, otherwise, today she would be an unknown writing failure who probably would have ended up being forced into an office job because writing wasn't paying the bills, and never would.
This is one of the first Johanna Lindsey books I read. It was magic. It was also my first official sheikh book. Ever since I have had a weakness for sheikh romances. I can't even count how many times I read this book. It's been a while but I remember being absolutely transfixed by the writing and the storytelling. It's very romantic, if you don't mind captive situations and forced seduction. I loved the reunion in England and how that plays out. Definitely one of my all time favorites.
I now know why this has so many negative reviews.
Ridiculous, I know right.
Where do I even start with the story???
It's so meh, the typicality doesn't even bothers me, there are far more horrendous things, and I didn't know to laugh or to bawl my eyes out.
He physically hurt Christina, 'cause you know, she wasn't obedient and crap, and then later, this psycho kills a person for hitting her in the face.
There is seriously no chemistry between the two protagonists, and the story has been dragged.
Satu lagi buku Johanna Lindsay yang membuat saya terpana.Awalnya sangat tidak menyukai karakter hero di cerita ini, namun setelah membaca lebih kedalam permasalahannya..Love this man, Sheik Abu Alhamar aka Phillip Caxton ... [image error]Inggris...Christina di lamar Tommy sahabat masa kecilnya dan menolak lamaran itu karena merasa masih kecil dan masih ingin ke London untuk bergaul.Disana bertemu Phillip Caxton yang baru datang dari Mesir untuk berlibur, yang pada saat itu, adik Phillip, Paul be
Tiba2 paginya John adik Christina mendapat panggilan "mendadak" yg mengharuskan dia berangkat ke Mesir.Entah kenapa, John mengijinkan adik nya yg merengek2 untuk ikut.Sampainya di Mesir, di ketahuilah jika panggilan itu hanya akal2an Phillip untuk mendapatkan Christina.Di culik di malam hari setelah sampai ke Mesir, Christina mengetahui jika penculik nya adalah lelaki yg di tolaknya mentah2 di Inggris, Phillip atau Sheik Abu Alhamar, half English half Arab.Marah, Christina ketakutan di perkosa oleh Abu, namun Abu mengatakan bahwa dia tidak akan memperkosa Christina, tapi dia akan membuat gadis itu sendiri yg menginginkannya...(duuuh, khas JL deh, chauvinist dan over pede)Namun Christina mengetahui bahwa sekarang di miliki oleh Abu, dan itu berarti dia adalah budak Abu.Abu benar2 tidak melakukan pemaksaan terhadap Christina, namun dengan rayuannya, akhirnya Christina yg menyerah, malah ditengah percumbuan mereka, gadis itu mengucapkan "Oh,Phillip...take me"...Oh Dear God !Katanya gak suka, malah minta2 sama Abu buat di "take"...hah !
Lindsey’s 1st Book: A Classic Bodice Ripper with a British Desert SheikI have read many by Lindsey and consider myself a fan.
(I only knew it was Victorian because late in the book she gave the date of 1885, which means it begins in 1884.)Set in England, Egypt and the desert, this is the story of Christina Wakefield whose brother brought her to London for a brief season when she was 18, following their parents’ death.
A series of misunderstandings, coupled with treachery, will keep them apart.Lindsey’s next book, published in 1978, the year after CAPTIVE BRIDE, was A PIRATE’S LOVE and it’s another bodice ripper but much better written.
Ugh. Worst piece of crap ever put into print and called a book.
It's not like you read these books to find literary greatness, but you at least expect to be amused, entertained.
A complete failure on behalf of Lindsey, who has written some other, much more entertaining books.
This is also clearly one of those "stick to what you know" cases (here: stables, manors and minimal cultural commentary).
Her historical melodramas may not be very historically correct, but their historical and cultural incorrectness isn't in your face all the time.
(I read the Russian translation, which is godawful.)
THe author tries to make her be some sort of intelligent sassy tomboy, but instead she comes off as annoying, and idiot, and self centered.The hero is supposed to tall dark and handsome, but like many other reviewers of this book said, he is a total MENTAL CASE.
He says he wants an intelligent wife and not some frilly dress wearing London girl, but the second he sees Christina, he's like I want her.
Anyway, after he forced his kiss on her in a very weird and unsensual way, i stopped reading.I personally can't believe that this book was even published.
I won't be reading from this author again.
Horrible. Mi reseña incendiaria aquí http://alacamaconunlibro.blogspot.com...
disitu christina disekap ditenda phillip & berada dibawah kekuasaan phillip.ya ampun gini nih yg bikin aq gondok ma phillip anak orang maen diculik aja hanya karna dia menginginkannya.ya ampun!!!!!!!!jadilah christina yg gondok 1/2 mati masih harus menyesuaikan diri dilingkungan yg serba asing juga harus menghadapi kecemburuan para wanita yg iri melihatnya ada dalam pelukan phillip.kayaknya si phillip jadi idola nih.
yahhh secara phillip khan anak penguasa disono so jelas jadi rebutan & incaran apalagi ditambah fisiknya yg digambarkan perfect.walo mentalnya perlu diperiksa tuh......sebenarnya christina bukalah gadis lemah.
ya ampun mbuletsisasi ga sih??????dasar phillip bego mbok ya ngerti dikit perasaan ceweq.secara dia dah semena2 gitu ma christina masa christina ga bisa balas sedikit???
Untuk saya buku ini kok datar banget, terutama setengah awal buku.Agak aneh sama heronya, Philip yang keras banget menolak pernikahan, tapi sekali ngeliat Christina langsung aja pengen memiliki bahkan langsung mengajukan lamaran.
Memang sih Christina, Heroinenya, digambarkan stunning bgt, sampe2 setiap laki2 yang ngeliat bawaannya pengen mengajukan lamaran aja walaupun belum pendekatan.Ketika Christina menolak lamaran si Philip ini, dia tetap bertekad memiliki Christina dengan cara apapun bahkan dengan menculiknya sekalipun.
Untuk kisah culik menculik lebih bagus yang secret fire, disitukan Heroinenya keras banget mempertahankan diri sampai2 harus dikasih obat perangsang dulu baru nurut.Nah setelah Christina menerima surat putus dari Philip dan pulang ke abangnya lalu ke Inggris baru ceritanya agak seru dikit.
Worth readingCaptive Bride (1977)  - The irresistible call of adventure brings lovely Christina Wakefield to the alluring Arabian desert.
But fate imprisons her after she encounters Sheik Abu, the strikingly handsome though arrogant adventurer, whom she had known in England as Philip Caxton.
Now that she has bloomed into a young woman he loves and desires her in a new way, she don't share those feelings.When she goes to London with her brother John she turns many heads as well.
There is one man who thinks little of these young woman all giggles and ruffles but when he sees Christina he must have her.
Dos estrellas para la primera novela de esta autora, publicada en 1977. Aunque la historia a priori parecía interesante, no me han gustado ni los derroteros de la historia ni los diálogos entre los personajes ni la manera en que la autora soluciona las situaciones. Es verdad que la novela romántica, y esta autora también, ha evolucionado desde entonces, pero he leído novelas escritas en esa época con tramas mucho más interesantes y mucho mejor escritas.Una pena ya que no me ha servido para disfrutar de una buena novela "clásica". Quizás es un problema de traducción, no lo sé.
This book is very captivating Johanna is a brilliant writer. She pulls you in right from the very start. When I began this book I thought when the time came I would be able to put it down for sleep. I was wrong, once I startted I needed to know how it ended. I read this book all night long and finished it by morning.
I read this way back when I was a blushing teenager. Scandalous! lol
I read this book more than thirty years ago, I still remember it. It was good.
(view spoiler)[If Philip had been less arrogant and more willing to woo Christina, then she probably would have accepted his marriage proposal.
(hide spoiler)] This character flaw is the catalyst behind the central conflict of the story.
Christina gives her permission, finds pleasure in the act, but hates him afterwards.
He does take her roughly once, there are no preliminaries and she ends up liking it.It's only after Christina is kidnapped by a rival tribe that she realizes she's in love with Philip, having hated him and wanting only to escape.
Philip, in turn, also realized he loved Christina after her kidnapping.
Phillip saw Christina one night at a ball and decided he MUST have her.
Christina's brother is in the army, so Phillip finds a way to get her brother sent out of the country to Phillip's father's homeland.
Christina, of course, tags along and gets kidnapped out of her bedroom by Phillip and some of his (henchmen?).
When she finally ends up loving him, Phillip's half-brother writes a note (pretending to be from Phillip) saying that Phillip doesn't want her anymore.
When he finds out he has a son, he goes to ask Christina to marry him; only to find her accepting another man's proposal (her best friend).
Before 50 Shades became a popular fixture in the romance genre, it seemed that house wives across the nation were fanning themselves with Lindsey's cheap paperbacks.
Yes, I know cookie-cutter Alpha males are a fan favorite, and yes, an undeveloped female protagonist can help the reader insert herself into the story.
That's no excuse for the piss-poor dialogue these characters spewed out to kindle their "romance." I don't know about y'all but when a guy tells me he's going to beat me I'm not thinking wedding dresses and baby rooms.
I took no issue with the storyline; I occasionally enjoy historicals and I understand that sometimes they can be a little....outside my preferences.
This book jumped the shark SO MANY TIMES I actually thought it was riding along with Fonzie on the waterskis.
It just got to be too much.I know this was Lindsey's first book.
And yes, at times there is a compelling, angsty story that is filled with the kind of "oh, come on now!" drama that I both love and hate in books of this genre.
I haven't given up on her books; I still have a few more on my Kindle.
