https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/47734.Transformations
I enjoy it occasionally but I don’t have enough knowledge or experience to write elaborate tasting notes.Like wine, I enjoy poetry on a more intangible level, the only difference is that of course, I am not more likely to go to bed with you if we end up reading poetry for the whole evening.Therefore, I won’t write a proper review of Anne Sexton’s Transformations.
In Anne Sexton’s versions of the famous fairy tales they all live creepily ever after.
She doesn’t change a thing, she just changes the lightning which makes everything a little bit more grotesque, and we realize that regardless to what our parents had us believe it wasn’t always good that won.
A collection of the mundane deconstructed to resemble the Grimm more than the silly and retold in verses oddly anachronistic yet alluring. What Sexton transforms is more magical than the droll tales of our childhood.
Some of the humorous allusions she uses are now dated, such as describing Rumpelstiltskin's body as not being Sanforized; but as a whole, each poem extends the universal truth of the Grimm tale, as with Cinderella's prince's "marriage [meat] market."I've probably read a Sexton poem here or there, but this was my first extended reading of her; and from the first, I saw her influence on her student Julie Kane, a poet I love.
(Kane was a student in Sexton's graduate poetry seminar at the time of her teacher's suicide.) Both share a wry, sarcastic sense of humor and stare unflinchingly into the darkness.Before (or, in some cases, after) reading some of the poems, I reread the corresponding Grimm tale.
Then I will smiledown from heaven in the seam of a cloud.The man took another wife who hadtwo daughters, pretty enoughbut with hearts like blackjacks.Cinderella was their maid.She slept on the sooty hearth each nightand walked around looking like Al Jolson.Her father brought presents home from town,jewels and gowns for the other womenbut the twig of a tree for Cinderella.She planted that twig on her mother's graveand it grew to a tree where a white dove sat.Whenever she wished for anything the dovewould drop it like an egg upon the ground.The bird is important, my dears, so heed him.Next came the ball, as you all know.It was a marriage market.The prince was looking for a wife.All but Cinderella were preparingand gussying up for the event.Cinderella begged to go too.Her stepmother threw a dish of lentilsinto the cinders and said: Pick themup in an hour and you shall go.The white dove brought all his friends;all the warm wings of the fatherland came,and picked up the lentils in a jiffy.No, Cinderella, said the stepmother,you have no clothes and cannot dance.That's the way with stepmothers.Cinderella went to the tree at the graveand cried forth like a gospel singer:Mama!
“He turns the key.Presto!It opens this book of odd tales.Which transform The Brothers Grimm.Transform?As if an enlarged paper clipCould be a piece of sculpture.(And it could.)” -from The Gold KeyI am reading Transformations as part of The Complete Poems, but feel it should be discussed separately as it differs from this poet's usual style of confessional poetry.
For example, when Red Riding Hood sets off to visit her ill grandmother with a bottle of wine and cake, Sexton says: “Wine and cake Where’s the aspirin?
But wine and cake it was.”Despite her humor many of the poems do have an undercurrent of darkness running through them.
Each of her stories opens with a poem that introduces the tale with a comparison to modern culture.For example, for Cinderella she writes:You always read about it: the plumber with the twelve children who wins the Irish Sweepstakes.
Since I own The Complete Grimm's' Fairy Tales (never knew that there were over 200), I decided to read the two versions side-by-side in order to familiarize with the original.
I enjoyed this collection immensely and plan to continue reading the rest of the Complete Fairy Tales.
Some of the references can be dated for younger readers, the language is beautiful and at times disturbing. I can feel some of her suicidal tendencies in her poetry. A troubled soul with some wonderful insights into people.
Fairy tale poetry which is scary, sexy, funny, and astonishing.
The Gold KeyThe speaker in this caseis a middle-aged witch, me -tangled on my two great arms,my face
The illustrations are beautiful in this edition and I loved Rapunzel, The Frog Prince and Briar Rose.
Upon finding a string / he would look for a harp." And, the poem goes on, he/we have found a gold key that will open this book, where Grimm's tales are transformed.
We'll never believe again.Red Riding Hood at the end munches cake, slurps wine, and "remember[s] nothing naked and brutal from that little death." Those being among the last words of the poem, though, we'll be remembering the naked brutality.And Snow White?
The poem ends with Snow White's wedding, of course, where she is already "rolling her china blue eyes open and shut / and sometimes referring to her mirror / as women do."And upon finding folk tales, we look for a...what?
But instead, what Sexton delivers is mostly straight-forward retellings that are surprisingly "by the book" other than a bit of change to modernize the settings.
There were a few - especially towards the end of the volume - that did a little bit more, but overall, it's just your standard Grimms tales in poem form.
Which is fine, I suppose, though I'm not a huge poetry fan to begin with, but I was really looking forward to something more like Carter's fractured versions and so I ended up being a bit disappointed in the unadorned, unaltered tales.
Incredible!
You haven't read THESE fairy tales unless you've read 'Transformations' I FIRST read this for a graduate school seminar: Confessional Women Poets.
I've returned to it countless times and still have my copy that I purchased in 1982.
So many notes and highlighted parts to taste and savor again and again.
Takes me back to countless life experiences - the fabulous, the good, the bad, the ugly.
I will always be re-visiting Anne Sexton.
It will be quite something when I feel that I can share THIS specific Anne Sexton collection with my ever maturing and changing daughter.
I like the sense of humour of people who commit suicide:"As for Hansel and Gretel,they escaped and went home to their father.Their mother,you'll be glad to hear, was dead."
4.5/5Anne Sexton's dark, twisted and fun poetic retellings of Grimm fairytales. While reading these poems I was very much reminded of Angela Carter. I'm not trying to compare Sexton and Carter, but there you go. Highlights: "Hansel and Gretel", "Briar Rose (Sleeping Beauty)", "Rapunzel", "Cinderella", "Red Riding Hood", "Godfather Death", "The Little Peasant".
Just stunning. Intro by Kurt Vonnegut-charming--weird--first poetry inspired by the fairy tale--then poetic re-telling of the fairy tale. sharp, funny, melancholy, a little shocking--a complete experience. I am so ready to start this from page one and do it again. I can't wait to read even more.
It is within the lines of their poetry where the reader gets the idea of how much we should actually strive to live life to its fullest otherwise we may stare into the face of death before our time is really over.There has been an odious suggestion about Sylvia Plath’s and Anne Sexton’s poetry that has made a lot of people avert their gaze from even reading them.
Plath and Sexton are both famous for being fatalistic, sadly many people refuse to read their work because on occasion their suicides have preceded their reputations as poets, thus deeming their work to be unfit to view due to its depressing nature.
The affectless narration of fairy tales censors the brutality that reinforces the morals they convey to condition children listeners.
But what if fairy tales were retold to adults?
Anne Sexton here makes a dark but not too dark rendering of fairy tales that does justice to their brutality.
[...]...So this is probably not poetry for young children!It's not all gloomy either, there's some dry humour too, such as her description of the burning of the witch in Hansel and Gretel as 'Altogether a memorable incident.' I still don't feel like I have a grasp on appreciating poetry, but this is accessible and enjoyable enough for casual readers.
I have to say I set this collection pretty high up on my expectation bar, and I feel like it fell a little short *sorry don't haaaaate*I thought it was really wonderful - as fairy tales are my jam and I have put a lot of time and energy and effort into them - and I really liked how she stayed pretty true to the tails but at time I felt it was so closely related I didn't feel like it was as inventive as I was expecting it to be.
Re-tellings of famous fairy tales - I can't say for sure but I think at least some are disguised as confessional. The poems are often sarcastic and her wit is acerbic, and sometimes it can get quite dark. I liked the retelling of Little Red Riding Hood and Sleeping Beauty the most. There are references in here that make me think it is autobiographical in some way (a reference to Thorazine for instance).
"And I. I too. Quite collected at cocktail parties,meanwhile in my headI'm undergoing open-heart surgery.The heart, poor fellow,pounding on his little tin drumwith a faint death beat."-Red Riding Hood
"And I. I too.Quite collected at cocktail parties,meanwhile in my headI'm undergoing open-heart surgery."
I feel that I could re-read this one many more times and find something new to admire or puzzle over each time around. A delicious book!
Love her poetry, but not a great fan of this one. On this first reading, these re-told fairy tales (of sorts) just didn't do it for me.
I got to know to Anne Sexton as a poet that's influenced by Slyvia Plath, whom I worship.
Also, since suicide is a major interest of me, Sexton's poetry was something I had to have on my shelves.I bought Transformation without knowing that it's a collection of Fairy Tales-Based poems.
Fairy tales like Cinderella, Sleeping Beauty and other Brother Grimm's stories.
I love it when a story is told as a poem, it's something I personally do a lot in my poetry, so reading her was quite helpful.I liked Rumpelstiltskin, Iron Han and the Magical Musician.
The most amazing, beautifully written, heart-touching, book of poetry I have ever read. Just spectacular.
My god, that was grim. Wouldn't have thought the fairy tales could get even more disturbing than their original versions, but they have.
Poetic versions of the violent fairy tales, prefaced and bracketed by the violence of real life.
How have I spent so much time not reading Anne Sexton's poems? These are playful and smart and I gobbled them up like that. They make adult the stuff of childhood (and vice versa?). It didn't matter that I did not know so well some of the tales she riffs on; their weird truths emerge. Read mostly at my picnic table in Zion National Park.
These are fairy tales for adults set to verse. Really enjoyed Sexton's different takes on classic fairtales like Rapunzel, Sleeping Beauty, etc. This is fairly short book, I would reread these again.
