https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/221325.Dolphin_Island
If you're into stuff like this, you can read the full review.The People of the Sea: "Dolphin Island" by Arthur C.
[..] To any boy of the twenty.first century, it was a sound of magic, telling of far-off countries and strange cargoes carried in the first ships that could travel with equal ease across land and sea.”In “Dolphin Island” by Arthur C.
My dad had given it to me, because he thought it would make a good first read for a boy who was trying to teach himself English at the time.
Clarke, uzun zamandır okumayı arzuladığım ancak hangi kitabını önce okusam, düşüncesiyle bir türlü okuyamadığım yazarlar listesindeydi.
Bu ay için çocuk kitabı arayışına girince buna denk geldim, isminin de tatlılığıyla tercihimi bu yönde kullandım.Hoş bir kitap olmasına rağmen tahminen çevirinin etkisiyle istediğim etkiyi yakalayamadım.
Başka bir çevirisi var mı kontrol etmedim, bu edisyona denk gelince bunu okudum.
Buna rağmen çocuklara önereceğim bir kitaptı.
Yunuslar, yunusların dünyası, onlarla konuşmak… İlgilerini bir hayli çeker diye düşünüyorum.Ayrıca ben yunus balıklarını çok severim.
Gerek balinalar gerek de yunus balıklarının iletişimiyle ilgili çok konuşma dinleyip belgesel izlemişliğim vardır.
O nedenle konu bakımından benim için hoş bir okuma oldu.
Unfortunately, the rest of the story doesn't hold up as well, even for a young adult story.While Clarke clearly has a strong affinity for dolphins (who doesn't?), it's curiously divided.
He acknowledges that dolphins are sentient and intelligent, and that orcas are their close cousins.
While some aspects will give a modern reader pause (hey, a clutch of turtle eggs - let's dig them up and eat them!), Clarke is generally spellbound by the free-diving possibilities and the beauty of the ecology, and does a very nice job of presenting them.
Clarke manages his usual success of making the key characters credible and reasonably well-rounded, but only the boys in the forefront really develop.
Džonijs ir tāds universālais puika – piedzīvojumu meklētājs, kas aizbēg no mājām, cieš kuģa katastrofā, iedraudzējas ar delfīniem un izglābj pasauli.
Vispār radās tāds pavirša darba iespaids.Grāmatas lasīšana tagad bija tīrā laika nosišana, šī nudien nav tā, kas pārāk rosina fantāziju, vai atstāj paliekošas atmiņas.
Man reti gadās, ka par grāmatu nav īsti ko teikt, nebūtu problēmas savu īgnumu izlikt vēl uz pārsimts vārdiem, bet diez vai tas būtu konstruktīvi.Lieku 4 no 10 ballēm, ja ir apnikušas Margaritas Stārastes pasakas, bet gribas ko līdzīgu tikai ar saprātīgiem delfīniem, droši ķerieties klāt.
Pretty much a story written for children here. Includes the theme of taming the dolphin for the mutual benefit of themselves and mankind, including exchange of lingual understanding between the two species. Some things are interesting but do not have real depth as in Clarke's other books. Story also contains large chunks as adventure, which seem good for a children's book, but almost atypical for Clarke's writings. However yet, a quick-paced interesting read. :)
One of the most influential books of my young life, and probably the only science fiction I've ever enjoyed. Based on the work of John Lilly in communicating with dolphins, this is a great book for adolescents but also gives you the chance to learn about dolphins, an astonishing animal with an enormous brain — and heart. This book made me want to be a marine biologist.
When I was in high school my passion was dolphins. This book fueled that and a love of all things in or to do with the oceans. This is a great adventure read and I recommend it for all ages.
This book started out as a fairly predictable adventure story...
but then it introduced some really real "mad scientist" concepts that made me disgusted at humans.
What they do to the orca, zapping her brain to force her to do certain actions, is despicable and horrifying.
But their plans for USING their new dolphin friends (to help fishermen gather up fish to feed the hungry millions) is terrible as well: Clarke makes the common human mistake of thinking that the ocean will provide unlimited "resources"...
60ish years after this book has been published, and we've overfished so much (even without dolphin help!) that many species are facing extinction.
Dolphin Island is a simple, yet engaging tale, filled with adventure and grand wonder. One of Arthur C. Clarke's forays into writing for a younger audience. Dolphin Island appreciably takes to the task. A formidable adventure not to be missed by young readers. If you want a fun, science-filled, tropical trek through Australia's Great Barrier Reef, Dolphin Island can do you no wrong. If you're looking for something more dense and hard-hitting, Dolphin Island might leave you thirsty and looking for something stronger on the sci-fi book shelf.
(3.5/5) This was definitely an enjoyable romp, truly lighthearted YA fiction with beautiful ecological descriptions and somewhat plausible characters. My only disappointment came from the conclusion, which provided a weak denouement to what could have been a fantastical exploration of the depths surrounding the alien wreck, giving ground to the spoken history of the dolphins? Also, why not use the superior technology to provide an alternate food source to the orcas, instead of imposing segregation? Surely if you consider dolphins and orcas to possess personhood, as the professor does, one would come up with a more respectful solution!
the most unrealistic scifi future: a world that has spaceships AND living coral reefs
Dolphin Island could be called an adventure story more than a science fiction novel.
Johnny quickly develops a fascination with the sea, the many species which inhabit it, and particularly the dolphins, who are learning to communicate with the island's human population thanks to the efforts of the kindly Professor Kazan.This is a short novel born out of Arthur C.
There's no shame in being frightened of the deep ocean or of anything in it, and Johnny's respect for the sea is a fine lesson for any young person who wants to get involved in the sciences.
Even now, it, and Clarke's ocean-centric Songs of Distant Earth, make me want to look into it for the first time in years.
well, not a good read.
the story tells about dolphins and humans.
there dolphins are intellectual.
Humans want to protect them from killer whales, dolphins' natural foes.
but then we face the fact that all in nature must be in harmony.
That means you for example, must not kill all wolves only to protect rabbits.
Because we then interfere with nature which can cause overwhelming propagation of rabbits that can harm both to us and nature.
BUT dolphins are not stupid rabbits.
they can think just like humans.
the morale is that all thinking creatures must be shielded.
It seemed quite naive and simple adventure story for young readers.
Though there was a good material to develop – the legend told by dolphins about the spacecraft fell into the ocean a long time ago.
Based on that information some scientists wanted to find that shipwreck to research it.
The bad thing is that this idea is just mentioned near the end of a book and is not developed.
Although I believe that Ser Clarke could write better work on the subject of communication between human and dolphins, certainly „Dolphin Island” is not the best writing compared to other his works.
The author was known to have a great interest in dolphins. This book wasn't all that great compared to others he wrote. Good enough and short enough to finish and diverting enough too. Young Adult Fiction.
ok, great story but I must admit that I give it 5 starts because my mom used to read this to me when I was a kid and the story sticks with me still. Thanks mom.
Nonetheless, I'm enough of a Clarke enthusiast that I probably would have read it sooner or later, regardless.
Set in the early 21st century, it depicts a world in which large hovercraft become a primary means of transportation; education is handled largely by "teaching machines"; and, more centrally to the plot of this story, research into dolphin intelligence has resulted in the ability to communicate and interact with them in a complex and substantive fashion.
Where this book does deliver, however, is in its depictions of the life of a coral reef and the various marine animals which call it home.
I came across this while searching a library catalog for something else by Clarke and was intrigued, because I didn't know he'd written books for young people and because I've always really liked dolphins.
Reading Clarke writing 1) for children and 2) adventure scenes was jarring at first, but I got used to it.
There's too much luck / coincidence plot-wise, but that's par for the course for kids' books.
The SF elements are definitely interesting, though some of them have since proven implausible.
But overall the book was definitely enjoyable.
And it's put Clarke's nonfictions books on undersea exploration and oceanography on my list too.
Dupa ce am parcurs cam o treime din lectura, fiind iritata un pic de stilul prea didactic pe alocuri, am cercetat pe internet sa vad daca aceasta carte intra la categoria celor cunoscute scrise de acest autor.
Atunci am descoperit ca este o carte pentru tineret :) Si, intr-adevar, imi aduce aminte de "Ciresarii" lui Chirita.
Cartea este scrisa frumos, e prima lectura a lui Clarke in care nu am simtit aroganta academicianului britanic care are foarte putina toleranta pentru cei care au pierdut de mult conexiunea cu manulul de fizica.
Si, da, explicatiile dau o dimensiune educativa care are valoare pentru cititorii din acel segment de varsta.
I hadn't realized this was a book for younger readers but I still liked it.I have an equal affinity for south seas islands and white sand beaches and marine adventures as I do for space or dinosaurs.Must have something to do with a childhood starting in the late 60's early 70's....One note: As much as Clarke obviously loved the reef and knew it first-hand...I still winced when he had the characters tromp across it in heavy boots.
An old friend shows he 's still a Wordsmith !! After discovering so many new authors in the past years, it was nice that an old master could join the e-book fray with a light hand, humor and characters you enjoyed spending a day with !  Now, the attraction of sci-fi for me is once again renewed.... Where is this going to lead ? Mr. Clark surely has a few plot twists ahead for man living with the aliens around us !?
I would consider this a "juvenile" novel, just like I do ACC's ISLANDS IN THE SKY. I don't like it when ACC does juvenile. It just always comes off as a bit patronizing, like he is talking down to his main character and reader. This book came out when the dolphin, whale, orca, and other oceanology topics were popular. I would have loved this book had I read it when I was 11 years old. Now, it's okay. It is a sort-of prequel to the universe ACC creates in THE DEEP RANGE.
I found it to be a quick enjoyable read. I'd recommend it to any teenage boy or girl but would also need to explain how gender roles have changed since 1963 when this story was written. There are very few women and girls in the story with all of them being in more subservient roles.
It's been a while since I read it, but...It was a short fun read, but the theme of it really made me question how I decide the value of an organism's life, and why I place more value on different creatures. Though it seemed far fetched, there was a lot to take from this book.
Man!I was waxing poetic, and Goodreads ate my review!Sorry, Arthur C. I love you and I love your books, but I'm not retyping this evening's magnum opus. I liked the book. Others should read it. There.
I loved this book when I was a teenager. Now that I am older, it was still really fun to read, but I didn't love it as much as when I was younger. Still, the young protagonist is a good character to follow. I cared about what happened to him. The settings are amazing, as are his adventures.
This caused favourable shift in paradigms in me .We don't give enough credit to our fellow animal's.A good read indeed.
Nije mnogo vredno čitanja, interesantna knjiga, zabavna, ali što kažu "loše ostarila".
Enjoyable story with less SF references than usual. If you need a book to read thru in a couple of days this a good option.
scary sea...
