https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/55286.The_Devil_and_Daniel_Webster_and_Other_Writings
This is a story that to this day will stick you with it's poignancy, and cause you to pause and take stock of your life in a very hard way.
In the mid eighties, my parents bought a rather amazing painting of Daniel Webster.
I used to feel like he was going to rat me out when I threw a party when my parents were out of town.Anyhow, my love of this book, which I read soon after the painting arrived, has always been tied up with my love of the portrait.
This book is probably my favorite deal with the devil story, right after the original Faust.
I love how human souls are collected as flying creatures- for someone weak like Jabez Stone, a tiny moth, for the great Daniel Webster, a majestic eagle.
In this book, there is The Devil and Daniel Webster, and other short stories written by Stephen Vincent Benét.
The second story is called The Sobbin Women.
In the movie, those of you who have seen it might remember Adam Potapee referring to one of Millie's books, about the romans and the sobbing women, while trying to pursuade the brothers to go get their girls if they wanted to marry them.
In the origanal story, Millie and the 7 brothers, and the minister's daughter are all in the there, but some with different names, and different personalities then in the movie.
Millie is a bit more cunning in the story.
This is a play I enjoyed reading in school. I find stuff with deals with the Devil pretty scary so I really liked it that Daniel Webster is able to beat the devil at his own game. I'm a sucker for anything supernatural, so I was glad that some of the classic required reading did have some supernatural elements.
After reading a book that I hated I needed an old friend to put my spirits in good order. The Devil and Daniel Webster has been a favorite of mine since elementary school and Old Scratch and the Jury of the Damned never fail to bring a smile to my face (wow...that is weird....lol). Nothing more to add.
Goodread from one of America's literary treasures. "The Devil & Daniel Webster" is among the finest examples of short story writing in the planet. "John Brown's Body" truly is America's "Iliad". Good sampler of a great and timeless, American classic writer worthy of closer inspection.
Saw the movie where an ordinary man, Jabez Stone (Alec Baldwin) is down on his luck.
He's an aspiring author, and after watching his good friend become published and rich, Jabez confides to his reflection in the mirror that he would sell his soul to the Devil to be a successful author.
The book is really a short story, and is written more as a tall tale of Daniel Webster as a simple but successful man from NH as the lawyer.
Bottom line: in this case, the movie delivers more bang for your buck (not often that you'll hear that from me).
Delightful. How did I miss this one when I was young? Although I think it relates to our modern financial crisis. . .the bankers and investors sell their souls to the devil for good times and flush pockets, and when the devil comes due they turn to the government to bail them out.
Another book I loved in junior high.
Daniel did well.
Finally finished the prose portion. I'm not much of a poetry person. I enjoyed the stories as bedtime reading.
Forced to read it in school and hate silly hero worship.
had to read for a school assingment but it is good wins over evil.
Acted in a play of this when I was young. Played Daniel Webster. Read this book about him before I was really old enough to comprehend it all, but enjoyed the 'what if'.
My sister gave me a 1937 hardcover edition of this book. It is filled with wonderful wood block print illustrations. Delightful short story set in New Hampshire. Fast read. Well done.
Read in about 30 minutes. o.k. just curious because I had heard so much about it. Daniel saves a neighbor/friend who sold his sooul to the devil
