https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/596290.A_Marvelous_Work_and_a_Wonder
If you say that some people are taking a wafer thinking they are eating the actual flesh and drinking the actual blood of their God you will find them weird but within context that will not sound so bad.
If you hear someone saying that God told his people to kill every man, woman, child and old, and even their animals if they stood in their way to a promise land, you will not want to get even close to that religion but you see that in the Bible and the Jews believe that as much as the Christians so.
This book is essentially that, a now outdated attempt at nothing but confirmation bias.
I no longer believe in the necessity of trying to prove faith.
A church's or a faith's power to build up lives is not based on if it is the only true church, like some winner of a philosophical competition, but its ability to change lives for the better.
Nor should it be a competition of numbers to secure that bias, where the more people you have believing a certain view somehow confirms it.
The first book I read after joining the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. It really helped to clarify some of the things that had always caused me to wonder about religion. I've always been a believer of Jesus Christ but how His church became so many different churches believing such different doctrine puzzled me.
This book would probably be better to use like a reference book.
But, the gospel of Jesus Christ is eternal truth, and those truths written in this book are never "outdated".
At the conclusion of his mission in 1937, he left this material in outline form as a guide to assist the missionaries in their study and preparation for teaching people about the gospel.
Because it was intended to be used as a reference to missionaries, there is some information that was duplicated in the various chapters.
I really enjoyed reading the book, and learned more about a gospel that I have been living for many years.
Elder LeGrand Richards was alive when I was in college, in his upper 90's. To hear him speak and his wisdom and sense of humor are treasures I will always remember. I specifically remember him speaking about enduring faithfully to the end, and that he prayed he would be able to do so. This book is one of the ground works of the LDS faith, that all newer members should read and grasp. I was a little older when I read it the first time, but it is a treasure in teaching fundamentals.
This is a great book for both the investigator and any member wanting a good outline of what it means to be a member of the church.
This book made a difference in my testimony of the restoration of the gospel to the earth. LeGrand Richards explained the apostasy and restoration in such a logical and understandable way that left me convinced that Church has been restored to the earth with the proper priesthood, organization and ordinances.
I have and read the 1976 edition and first read the book in 1977 but have reread portions of it over the last 31 years. This is a great book for learning and sharing the basic truths of the Gospel of Jesus Christ. It provides very clear and concise pricipals of the Gospel. Very easy and enjoyable reading.
On page 406, we are told by LeGrand that "a writer for the New York Herald who had visited the Prophet Joseph Smith in 1842" wrote an article singing the praises of the Mormon church.
However, LeGrand puts the source after the quote....George Q.
And the quote is not in fact pulled from the New York Herald.
First, LeGrand wanted readers to think the quote came from the New York Herald.
Second, he wanted readers to think that Cannon was not Mormon.
In many other cases throughout the book, LeGrand doesn't even give a name to go along with a quote.
A Marvelous Work and a Wonder is a book about The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter Day Saints and what they believe. Throughout the book it goes over the majority of the doctrine of the The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter Day Saints in an interesting and logical way. The book uses both the Book of Mormon and the Bible as sources to explain doctrine of the Gospel going over topic after topic. A Marvelous Work and a Wonder goes the foundation of the Gospel and a large portion of The Church of Je
A Marvelous Work and a Wonder is a book about The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter Day Saints and what they believe.
Throughout the book it goes over the majority of the doctrine of the The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter Day Saints in an interesting and logical way.
A Marvelous Work and a Wonder goes the foundation of the Gospel and a large portion of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter Day Saints’ history.
The book used a large amount of scripture, and as a result I almost fell asleep many times while reading it.
I read this book to fulfil the goal "read a book your pastor recommends" being lds, we call our "pastors" bishops. i asked my bishop what he would recommend and this is what he told me. this book explains what we believe in why. i gave it a lower rating though because there are a lot of quotes in it, and i had a hard time staying awake because of its textbook style of reading. it is a great resourse though if you are trying to quickly find an answer about a single topic.
A fantastic book on the Restoration of the Church of Jesus Christ. This was the first book my father read as we investigated the Church in the early 1970's and was instrumental in our joining the Church!
Slow read
This book was part of my mission library. It is good book that clearly explains the restoration of the Gospel and its prophetic spread across the world.
A boring but comprehensive defense of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints.
This was a decent book that basically tried to prove The Book of Mormon and the restoration of the gospel is true with natural and historical evidence. Lots of good scripture references though. I would use this book more as a resource than anything else.
This was pretty good.
It started out with a lot of basic stuff that I already knew, but with each chapter it got deeper.
I was originally challenged to read it when I was a teenager, but I never finished it.
I'm glad I waited until I was an adult to read it from cover to cover, there was a lot of stuff I wouldn't have understood as a teenager.
If you are knew to the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, I would recommend reading Our Heritage and Gospel Principles before reading this.
But all three of those are a good read.
He repeatedly states that the Mormon Church was not created by reading and interpreting the Bible like the Protestant denominations, but rather, the Church's organization and doctrine came "directly" from God to the earth through living, contemporary prophets (mainly Joseph Smith) that communed with Him, His son Jesus, and other angelic messengers that He sent to earth.
In other words, whereas other churches have men interpreting the same passages of scripture in diverse ways that have lead to hundreds of denominational factions, the Mormon Church claims to have received one, united interpretation and understanding for how to worship and follow the LORD of the Bible.
It dissects doctrine and opposing viewpoints using the scriptures (Bible, Book of Mormon, Doctrine and Covenants, & Pearl of Great Price) as well as quotations of learned men and scientific studies.
For those investigating the LDS Church, I suggest first reading the Book of Mormon and testing its promise (Moroni 10:3-5) and bringing your questions and concerns to the missionaries.
A Marvelous Work and a Wonder is a little dated and doesn't address some current social issues, but it is a useful reference because it is exhaustively cross-referenced with the scriptures.
The book never suggests bible-bashing, and in fact says that bible bashing is a bad idea, but in my experience, the effect of this book on missionaries is nevertheless to encourage debate and bible-bashing.That is not a good way to teach the gospel.Worse, although the doctrine contained in the book is invariably true, the book tends to see that doctrine in the Bible in places where it doesn't really exist.
So when missionaries argue about the doctrine from this book, first, they shouldn't be arguing at all, and worse, when they do argue, they are wrong more often than not.
I feel like it will be beneficial to me in my future missionary opportunities.
It felt sometimes a little like sitting through a gospel doctrine lesson read straight from the manual.
It's more of a "This is why we are right, and other churches are obviously wrong" format, whereas more recent missionary tools such as Preach My Gospel (which I love!) encourage dialogue that promotes finding similarities and common ground as a basis for inviting the spirit to teach.
That being said, I still highly recommend this book, and will definitely reference it when opportunities arise to teach gospel principles.
I read it for a very good Mormon friend when we where working together at Payless.
He recommended it as a means of getting a good overview of what Mormons believe.
The book failed to convince me, obviously and I found myself more often provoked than challenged by the author's strange reasoning and tendency to use clinchers like "How can it be more clear that [blah, blah:] is the most certain truth of God?" and "How can anyone deny the clear meaning in [what ever:] text?" These statements were used when logic and reasoning and sound exegesis was lacking.
A bit repetitive, but you're forewarned about that at the outset, since this book is a compilation of pamphlets and not a book in the traditional sense.
There are definitely some terms that started to grind on me, but that's just because of my upbringing.
I have always preferred "LDS" over "Mormon," since I have never felt that "Mormon" is accurate, but is a term used by those who don't know any better.
Also Richards mentions the "pre-existence," which has long since been replaced with "pre-mortal life" for obvious reasons.
A great overview of the LDS faith for members and non-members alike.
I asked my grandpa a year or two ago what made him join the LDS church.
Written in 1950, it is a bit dated, but the doctrines and beliefs it covers haven't changed.
It is a great chronicle of the basic history of the church and of the doctrine of the LDS faith.
If I weren't already a believer, I would definitely feel like I needed to do some serious soul-searching after reading this book.
As it is, I enjoyed reviewing our beliefs and the connections we have to Christ's church while he lived on the earth.
Not a quick read, but definitely a worthwhile one.
It's mainly aimed at Christians who are very familiar with the Bible.
It covers the history of the Restoration and logically presents the case for the need of a Restoration.It's a pretty academic writing style -- a bit dry but typical of the time.
It's a bit dated as far as statistics and things like stake seventies go.
I also think missionaries today meet more people who haven't had any experiences with God rather than those already familiar with Christian doctrines.I'd recommend this for new church members, those preparing to be missionaries, or anyone interested in theology in general.
This was the text that was used by me when I taught Sunday School out at the Utah State prison.
I taught there for three years.
It was wonderful.
These people were hungry for the gospel and it was a wonderful experience.
We went through the entire book and started again.
I think some days we spent the entire hour on maybe one page.
I love this book.
And not just because of its content, but because of the experience with the Spirit that I had on each page with these men who wanted so badly to turn their lives around.
A great book covering tons of gospel principles.
LeGrand Richards is a popular figure in LDS Culture, perhaps even a folk hero at this point. At the center of his popularity is this book. It's been a long time since I read this, but I remember it contributing greatly to my youthful enthusiasm for the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-Day Saints. It contains a nifty quote in which Leo Tolstoy gives a respectful nod to Mormonism. I'd recommend this book to people wanting to understand Mormonism better. Please don't read that as an endorsement of the contents.
Learned a ton from reading this book, although nothing in particular sticks out as I write this review. There were definitely some "ah ha!" moments. I'm very glad I read it because the various subjects covered will be very useful in my personal missionary efforts. As a specific subject comes up, I will be more comfortable discussing it or if I can't remember the doctrine, I will have a good familiarity of where the information is located. Probably will never read it again cover-to-cover, but will serve extremely well as it is advertised on the cover: Missionary Reference
During his lifetime, LeGrand Richards was widely known for his more or less extemporaneous talks, his obvious joy in the gospel, and his way of making seemingly complicated gospel doctrines and principles come alive. That same spirit shows through in his classic book "A Marvelous Work and a Wonder. It explains, demystifies, and makes accessible to all the life saving and life enhancing doctrines of the gospel of Jesus Christ. An essential adjunnct to the library of anyone who considers himself a Latter Day Saint.
