https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/18619684-the-time-traveler-s-wife
The title character's entire life and family are so difficult to relate to that I immediately hated her.
The book skips back and forth between the point-of-view of the title character and the time-traveler himself, but there is absolutely no difference in their voices.
I think I actually got confused a few times about who was speaking.
Not only are conversations unnecessarily long, but they are often followed by page after page of internal dialogue as the characters rehash and analyze every point of said conversation.Sorry this was so long, but this might be the worst book I've ever read and I'm really confused by all the good reviews.
The author gives lip service to Henry's womanizing and drug problems, but really, they don't seem to pose much more than a passing problem for Clare because she already knows they'll get married.
Clare never really seems to be bothered by her lack of independence, or the fact that she's so tethered to Henry because he had a part in making her who she is, etc.By the time I actually got to the end of the story, I was too emotionally distanced from the characters to really be moved by what happens to them---the burden of plot winds up outsripping any kind of nuanced characterization.
I can say this fairly because I read it in practically one sitting, and while I was able to keep things straight, it would have served the book better to not attempt to take in so many sub-plots and minutia.
I just wasn't feeling it.Okay, all of that said, I really don't recommend this book to anyone.
I realize there are a lot of people that like it (I know; I checked the reviews expecting to be completely vindicated, but alas, it seems I'm in the minority) but those people who like it apparently enjoy a different class of book than I do.
This book is so beautiful and anguishing to read I can't even be objective about it, because it was one of those stories that just burrowed a lot closer to home than you could ever feel comfortable with.
What really hit me in the gut (seriously, I did not even cry this hard when I read "Where the Red Fern Grows" for the first time, and I got red-faced, puffy-eyed and ugly over that one), was the horrible feeling that I could see myself as Clare and know exactly how she felt about Henry, and could fill the unwritten pages of her future with grief that I would know and understand.
I've been putting off writing this review for days because I knew that this would be a struggle for me.
There aren't enough words in the English language that could accurately convey my feelings for The Time Traveler's Wife.
If you haven't read this book, I urge you to do so.
You can expect a literary experience unlike one you've ever had.What did I love most about this book?
The love story.
They will go on to face obstacle upon obstacle, but their love for one another never wanes.
Simply put, this was a book that had that Extra Something.
even oprah says so!" and then there are the crowds of friends who carry around their freshly bought "it" book (ok, i'm bitter, i can't afford to buy new books) who can't wait to share their newfound genius at having read said new "it" book.
suddenly, beautifully, there was so much for them to live for, and as soon as i got that lovely, dreadful inkling that henry was going to die...
i was frustrated because i felt like she was spending what little time she had with henry making him worried about everything when they could have just been...
It could have been good, the idea could have soared but in Niffenegger's hands it was destroyed by laundry lists of grocery bag contents, street directions, and punk bands until I even said, out loud, more than once, "okay, I get it." He bought groceries, he knows how to get around in Chicago, Clare likes to clean her studio, he is not just a punk rock poser but the real deal, complete with his cherry red Docs,etc.
The tedious minutae of life is boring and makes the author look like she is trying to pad her story for more bulk.The worst part of this book was that the whole thing was based on contrived plot devices.
Do not let my 4 stars fool you, they are an emotional rating.I'll start with the things I really liked about it:Loved all the foreshadowing.
While you are reading along in a fairly chronological timeline, it is interspersed with moments of past and future as Henry travels through time.
The way that the author addressed themes of love, fate, destiny, personal choice and, of course, time was mind blowing at times (as all time travel issues are to me) but very cool to see how it all intertwined.
Apparently when I reach my 500th review, Goodreads will put a little encouraging "button" on my profile (they might as well just give me a bookmark), but 400 feels big, too, so I wanted to review a book that I love but have never reviewed here.The Time Traveler's Wife is a controversial novel, and when my book club discussed it, there were burning pitchforks, buckets of hot tar and glasses of Pinot Noir being splashed in faces.
He represents the spring, the adventurer, the one who is both sacrificed and reborn.And his love, Clare, is both the archetypal mother and the wife, the perpetual autumn, and Penelope, the one who waits.Niffenegger's plot point of time travel is immense.
It's the story of a couple in love where the man comes back at various ages before and after he initially met his wife.
When that happens we get the perspective on what's going on from both him and her.
I'm not a fan of romance or sci fi, so I guess the combination of the two turned me off.
I always give a book at least 20 pages and this one had so many good reviews, I went back and gave it another twenty pages but just couldn't get into it.
image from astronomytrek.com
زوجة مسافر عبر الزمن--------قد تكون رواية بسيطة ليست ذات أبعاد ولا تناقش فلسفة معينةلكنها أحد أكثر الروايات التي قرأتها إمتاعاهي فانتازيا رومانسية جميلةوعلى الرغم من ذلك فهي أكثر من مجرد تسلية وإضاعة للوقتتتسم الرواية بكثيرٍ من الدفء والصدقبلا ابتذال ولا مزايدةوتمت معالجة الفانتازيا هنا بحرفية شديدةالقصة شديدة الغرابة عن رجل يسافر عبر الزمن ليقابل حب عمره بطريقة لم يتقابل بها عاشقين من قبلوبرغم صفحاتها العديدة إلا أنني لم أملّ لحظة واستمتعت بكل تفاصيلها الصغيرةهذه الرواية جعلتني مرتاحة وسعيدةقضيتُ وقتا ممتعا ووقعتُ في غرام الشخصياتتذكرني قصة الحب في هذه الرواية بهذه الأغنية الدافئة♥~♥http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qgDJbA...♥~♥
The good stuff:I really liked the jumps back and forth in time - surprisingly, the author was able to keep it all straight and I never really felt so terribly confused that I just wanted to give up.I loved the Henry character.
So often a love story goes for huge dramatics to prove the deep love between two people and I liked that she didn't do that - you see their love for each other in what they do, how they talk, how they touch.I liked how the author kept the time traveling dark - the idea that he has no money and no clothes and has to scramble to stay alive and not arrested, etc etc.
Such is the case with this book, only it's not incredibly bad, just not worth the hours it takes to read it.It seems like every fiction book I've read in the past couple of years is highly depressing, this one included.
Instead of a story with much of a plot though, it was more like an anthropological ethnographic study of Clare and Henry.
(Hard to believe you could have a spoiler without much plot, but there are a couple pieces that are major events in the book.) All in all, interesting concept tying time travel to romance, but with real life being trying enough, I need something more light-hearted.
If I had to define "The Time Traveler's Wife" by Audrey Niffenegger in two words they would be: poignant and excessive—two words that also illustrate my mixed feelings about Niffenegger’s first novel.“The Time Traveler’s Wife” is about many things.
Throughout the novel he clings to a certain charm, a quality that makes it plausible to believe that Clare really did love him long before Henry first met her.The novel jumps from past to present and back again as Niffenegger aptly looks at how Henry’s past intersects with his present and his future, and his evolving relationship with Clare.
I simply didn't want it to end.The story is about two people, the time traveler and his wife.
A love that transcends time.While the science fiction part of it IS interesting, it really is all about the couple, Henry and Clare.
When the Journeyman time travels, it is expressly so he can go back and change the past, and when he returns to his present, things are not quite what they were when he left.And even though the science fiction part of this book is actually fairly understated, Henry's version of time travel seems much more real to me, more plausible.
For whatever reason, when I stared reading The Time Taveler’s Wife, I was in possession of two copies.
I opted to leave a copy at work and the other at home and I read at least a few pages everyday.
This meant that each time I picked up the book I was slightly lost, and wondering were I was, while I searched to find my place within the pages.
One copy was older and more worn than the other, with writing in the margins and creased corners.
Even with the time lost searching for my place, this book turned into a quick read.
I DON'T WANT TO RUIN THE ENDING FOR YOU!This was one of the saddest books I've ever read, aside from "Where the Red Fern Grows," but what I didn't like was that there was no real time to devote to being sad and crying over Henry's fate/destiny/end because the story kept going, no moment to allow the reader a bit of catharsis.
The Time Traveler's Wife, Audrey NiffeneggerIt is a love story about a man with a genetic disorder that causes him to time travel unpredictably, and about his wife, an artist, who has to cope with his frequent absences and dangerous experiences.تاریخ نخستین خوانش: روز هفتم ماه ژوئن سال 2015 میلادیعنوان: همسر مسافر زمان - رمان؛ نویسنده: آدری نیفنگر؛ مترجم: مرجان محمدی؛ مشخصات نشر: تهران، کتابسرای تندیس، 1394، در 623 ص، شابک: 9786001821448؛ موضوع: داستانهای نویسندگان آمریکایی - سده 21 مداستان کتابداران، و سفر در زمان، داستان پرماجرای عشق، میان کتابداری به نام «هنری»، و دختری زیبا به نام «کلر»، که دانشجوی هنر است.
3 stars to Audrey Niffenegger's novel, The Time Traveler's Wife, published in 2003 and later made into a movie. This one is a hard book for me to rate. There was so many great things in it, but there was also a lot that made me step away and think about how it all happened...  Overview  A young couple are constantly ravaged by the husband's ability to move between time periods, but rarely in a controlled way. They are stuck in a haphazard relationship, never knowing when he may just disappear fo
There was so many great things in it, but there was also a lot that made me step away and think about how it all happened...
1. The entire concept of moving around throughout someone's life, not knowing what time period it is until a few things happen.
This created a lot of suspense and drama, which for the most part worked significantly well; however, on a few occasions, it pushed me over the limit of confusion.2.
Ultimately, it's the kind of book where you think you love it, but then things start falling apart in your mind about the gaps and the confusion...
i feel there is a special circle of hell reserved for authors who make a fortune by blatantly ripping off better--but less mainstream--authors from the past and passing the ideas off as their own. I therefore will not review this book but instead re-direct the curious to a 1976 novel called Kindred by Octavia Butler, ostensibly a sci-fi novel but in fact a lean, precise and totally imaginative book for any alert reader. Avoid bloat, trashiness, sexism, predictability and slowness: don't read this one. Read Kindred! It is gorgeous, thoughtful, sexy, and oh yes--feminist and anti-racist. Yeah!
The second half she wrote while on some very impressive anti-depressants.The first half of this book is sweet, wistful, beautiful and touching.
The second half of this book is heart breaking, depressing and sloppily written.I finished this book wondering what the hell I'd actually gotten out of it.
My not-so-startling conclusion was: nothing.When I read a book, I like to come away with something - even if it's merely a story worth remembering to cherish in my mind, or a lesson well learned, or an experience I'll probably never have but I now felt as though I'd had.
This book offers none of that and I'm wondering why Ms. Niffenegger actually wrote it to begin with?
She sees him as her closest friend, the person who knows the most about her in the world, the person who loves her the most in the world, and as a young girl who is just starting to form ideas about romantic love, I'd imagine that to her he's like a God. An all-knowing (he knows her future) but mysterious (because he won't tell her about it, or anything about himself), unconditionally loving (I don't think I need to explain this one), metaphysical or supernatural being (time traveler, remember?), and who is just waiting for her to accept him (well, actually, just to get old enough to do so).
I see that it's won a pile of awards- I feel like I completely missed something and I would like to understand your point of view.I thought I was in for a sweet romance but all I got was a time traveler who cheated at the lottery, beat people up for clothes, and engaged in sexual hijinks with time traveling versions of himself.I was completely creeped out by the fact that Henry is Claire's best friend from the time that she was 6.
These two books are chick books, books whose romantic plots and themes are written to appeal to women, a device in books and film that do a disservice to the women’s rights movement.
The book revolves around the theme that love transcends time, and describes how the couple deals with the man’s time-traveling problem.
For example, the time traveler wishing to himself that he were home and finding himself in bed with his wife and stating something inane like “I’m with Clare, so I am home.
Rarely is such an original idea portrayed with such vivid language so you believe the time travel possibility and the characters are almost people you know.
The science fiction is a medium for a love story, not a cheesy or unrealistic (besides time travel which she makes believable) one, but a deep enduring love in for the long haul of life and hardship, told from both his and her perspective, and how time travel affects their lives and relationship.
It starts when Henry meets Claire for the first time and she is ecstatic to finally have found the love of her life in the present.
The time travel element is what makes this an ambitious book.
I don't want to give too much away, so suffice it to say that certain events leading up to the end were so raw and tragic, I lost myself to the book completely, and went with the flow, no longer trying to find slip-ups or inconsistencies or judging the writing style.
And since I actually want to invest in fictional characters, whether they be in books or in movies etc., I felt their pain, as well as their love and happiness and all the feelings in between.
What I love about THE TIME TRAVELER'S WIFE is that Niffenegger absolutely nails the relationship between Henry and Claire.
For all the book's faults (in particular a draggy middle), I haven't read a book yet with such chemistry between the two main characters.
Add to that Niffenegger's beautiful use of language and dry sense of humor and this is a book I keep going back to.
Because I'm only reviewing my favorite books -- not every book I read.
Consider a novel's presence on my Goodreads bookshelf as a hearty endorsement.
I can't believe I just said "hearty." It sounds like a stew.****
These are the core elements that add ambiance to the love story of Henry Detamble - librarian and reluctant time traveler - and his wife, artist Claire Ashbury.
The latter is the most unique part about this story - Henry first meets Clare when she is 6 and he is in his 20s, thanks to the time traveling.
It's a rarity in fiction to have a librarian character who is a man, a time traveler, reader and lover, while still leaping off the page as the world's first well-read, punk librarian.Henry and Clare never dip to anything less than human, brilliant, vital, and remarkably alive.
Giving up after 22%. I tried but Henry's time travels proved a bit too much for me.
Audrey Niffenegger’s innovative debut, The Time Traveler’s Wife, is the story of Clare, a beautiful art student, and Henry, an adventuresome librarian, who have known each other since Clare was six and Henry was thirty-six, and were married when Clare was twenty-three and Henry thirty-one.
Impossible but true, because Henry is one of the first people diagnosed with Chrono-Displacement Disorder: periodically his genetic clock resets and he finds himself misplaced in time, pulled to moments of emotional gravity in his life, past and future.
The Time Traveler’s Wife depicts the effects of time travel on Henry and Clare’s marriage and their passionate love for each other as the story unfolds from both points of view.
