https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/498282.Mistress_of_Mistresses
In addition to the heroic and danger-loving Lessingham these characters include the Duke Barganax, an illegitimate son of the dead king whose martial prowess and valour are only superseded by his love of luxury and culture; Barganax’s lover Fiorinda, a mysterious and alluring femme fatale whose very being seems to harbour secrets about the nature of existence; Dr. Vandermast a strange old courtier of the Duke’s whose learning is almost as opaque to the characters of the novel as it is to the reader and whose role in the story is nearly as mysterious as that of Fiorinda; Princess Antiope, daughter of Mezentius and possible pawn to a host of would-be regents; and last, but best, of all Horius Parry, the Vicar of Rerek, cousin-german of Lessingham, and perhaps the most delightful (dare I say delicious?) villain I have ever encountered.
You may also recall that at one point in Worm, our heroes saw, from a mountain in the distance, the fabled land of Zimiamvia, and wondered if it was, in fact, the home of the souls of the blessed.The answer is ...
complicated.As mentioned, the book begins in England around Lessingham's deathbed; he'd lived to a ripe old age and done great things.
Lessingham may in some ways sympathize with their cause, but he's honor-bound to uphold the Queen (and, by extension, the Vicar).This is a less adventuresome book than Worm Ouroboros, but I might actually like it better.
Although the earlier novel is better known, this is the better one and Eddison's talent clearly developed in the nine years since the publication of The Worm Ouroboros.When strong king Mezentius of the Three Kingdoms dies, his heir Styllis is a weak young man, unable to handle two particularly powerful subjects, his illegitimate brother Barganax and the sinister Honorius Parry.
Less of a straight-forward adventure than ‘The Worm Ouroborus,’ not as inclined to wander down odd avenues of philosophy as ‘A Fish Dinner in Memison,’ and, of course, more finished than ‘The Mezentian Gate,’ ‘Mistress of Mistresses’ pulls all the best strains of the author’s thoughts together into one narrative.This is not to say there is not a great deal of adventure and quite a bit of philosophy to be found in the book.
It's an extremely mystical book: like The Worm Ouroboros, it starts out with a heady and entrancing frame story involving Lessingham.
If you like reading pages upon pages of mountains, gardens, and mosaics, this is the book for you.
Then, as a thought steps over the threshold of oblivion, all was gone; the cloudless summer night held its breath in the presence of its own inward blessedness; the waters purred in their sleep under the touch of Anthea's idly trailing finger.Though the style is more florid and romantic than in The Worm, Mistress of Mistresses also displays Eddison's knack for odd and resonant vocabulary, especially verbs, drawn from archaic English and French.
Have tried reading this a couple of times because it's supposed to be a classic. But never got very far, it just doesn't work for me.
Eddison should rightly encompass all the things I usually dislike in novels: flowery language, meandering plots, over-the-top melodrama, constant quotations and allusions to other works, lingering on unimportant details for pages at a time.
His works read more like legends than novels, not light reading, but not without levity, either.
The confectioneries the characters eat alone hog entire pages, but Eddison writes food like Miyazaki in his movies--deliciously.
Perhaps what I like about Eddison is the sheer joy conveys to the reader when he builds these fantastical worlds.
A good story, well-told and interesting. It would have got four stars, but for these flaws:- The cod-Elizabethan language was often hard to follow- Some of the descriptions went on for pages!- The hero Lessingham allied himself, for no apparent reason, with the worst character in the storyAlso, I couldn't really handle the way that some characters seemed to merge with others, but the final straw was the "it was only a dream" idea that he only spent one night in Zimiamvia. OK, it's a fantasy, and a very early one too in this genre, but come on!
The prose can be tough going, just like The Worm Ouroboros, but as with that one it’s worth it (if philosophic high fantasy is your thing). Epic battles, political scheming, surreal dream (?) sequences, references to Icelandic sagas and Greek myth... it’ll make your head spin, but you’ll like it. Maybe.
The character is really special.
You were talking of my cousin, and the great King, and might-a-beens; but I was fallen a-dreaming and marked you not.”In The Worm Ouroboros Eddison used a half-framing device that many, including myself, found annoying and confusingly pointless.
After reading Mistress of Mistresses I’m no longer so sure of that judgment.
Where, in Ouroboros, the introductory narrator appears in the first few chapters and then seems to disappear completely, in Mistress the different worlds of narrator and story intertwine deeply beneath, within, and above the story.There is a certain dream-like quality to the “real” world in Mistress.
It stands largely apart from Worm as the first volume of the Zimiamvia (I had to pause to check that) trilogy along with A Fish Dinner in Memison and the Mezentian Gate.
The trilogy nominally takes place in the universe of Worm but the only links are a distant sighting of Zimiamvia from a mountaintop and the presence of Lessingham as the main character, who appeared in about ten pages of Worm.The prose in MoM (and presumably the other two) is much easier reading than that of Worm, emulating the writing of roughly a century after the latter's epic balladry.
I was fascinated last year when I read Eddison's The Worm Ourobouros, and started looking around for the rest of his work.
I found a copy of Mistress of Mistresses, but found it a bit of a slog to get through compared to the quasi-masterpiece of Ourobouros.
It didn't have the epic scope and grandeur of Ourobouros and seemed more like ordinary old fantasy lit, only harder to read.Still, I liked it and will eventually read the rest of the weird Zimiamvian Trilogy.
I feel like I might as well keep going, maybe someday I will have read all the pre-WWII fantasy literature that exists.
It was quite a read.
Made me feel clever for knowing the references and the reading style reminded me of early modern drama, this being like a novelized form of such keeping the writing style of monologues and dialogues in third-person narration and description.
I also like the little detail that letters and such-like were written with an erratic spelling, typical of the period it was based on.It was a positive first read of the author.
Despite that, I will be returning to Eddison, once I have taken a little down time with some Pratchett.
I do love Eddison's high fantasy - I though this first volume of this series is not as focused as The Worm Ouroboros but stuck with it - Antiope is an interesting character drawn by Eddison from several strands of Norse and Classical mythology.
The more I read Eddison the more I agree with Tolkien that Eddison's 'peculiarly bad nomenclature' (Letters, p.
377) is 'slipshod and often inept' (Letters, p.
But I am sure I will return to the other two volumes in this trilogy (now on Kindle) and also Eddison's Styrbiorn the Strong in 2015.
Certainly the G.R.R. Martin of his time!
What an unusual "ending." I thoroughly enjoyed this, although some is too cloudy to recall specifics. Late into the book, a few scenes were completely lost on me, as in I don't recall which characters were involved and what, if anything, was truly resolved.Eddison's writing takes a great deal of concentration, but the payoff is worth it. An intricate story of political intrigues, despotism and blurred realities of worlds. For me, one of the biggest struggles was keeping the unique and irregular names and titles straight.Onto the companion volume, A Fish Dinner at Memison.
I feel like things didn't quite come together properly at the end ... but then, this is a trilogy, so maybe things are explained in book 2. This attempts a kind of mystery, mysticism, and lyrical style that most fantasy writers rarely succeed with. Modern readers may find this to be difficult, because the style is not typical. Worth reading as something which was an influence on later writers. (I also think some but not all fantasy readers will enjoy it for its own sake.)
Sweet.(Not that I got beyond the first chapter, of course, but I liked what I read. I found it delightful, actually. But I'd be lying to myself -among others- if I pretended that I've read it to the end or that I mean to. My interest in the story is not worth the hours I'd spend deciphering this man's convoluted prose. But the book, I am sure, is beautiful on the outside as well as on any sentence, and I'll hold it dear.)
This fantasy book had some gorgeous writing and a few wonderful set pieces. I feel like I might enjoy it more upon rereading because it was a little hard to follow. Also, the framing device gave me an initial dislike of the main character (Lessingham) that was hard to shake. He just seemed too heroic and kind of boring.
Much like Eddison's other books - I started it, I liked it but never got into it, then eventually wandered on to other things. I know he is essential to the development of fantasy, but I can't get into him.
*note to self.copy from Al.
Maybe four star (but not sure): memorably weird. Lessingham and the Vicar are great characters.
More archaic prose from the master of The Worm Ouroboros, which IS his masterpiece. Don't let this book turn you from Eddison - read the Worm!
(review of complete series in Zimiamvia: A Trilogy)
Elegant ultimate classical romance, without self-conscious gimmicks. As with all of his books, read them slowly and enjoy them.
