https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/31337.Blackwood_Farm
This was the last straw in my decade long relationship with Anne Rice.
We had some good times but mutually decided to end our relationship.
I loved her three witch books but the vampire stuff had been going downhill since Body Thief.I hate this book.
After years of okay to disappointing novels, this one was all I could stand.
I didn't care about Quin and I hated that Rice felt the need to shoehorn Mona Mayfair into the vampire mythos.
I found this book so uninteresting I actually stopped halfway through and read a biography of Hulk Hogan my dad got from someone he worked with before finishing it.
In spite of all its flaws, Blackwood Farm is a much better book than many books out there, and at the same time, it’s so much worse.First, a quick background – I started the Vampire Chronicles quite late, when the first 11 books were already out and waiting for me to binge read them.
Then Quinn treats Terry Sue in a very patronizing way, choosing a house for her and hiring servants to supervise her, without asking her if she wants any of those things.- What Merrick does at the end (I’m trying to avoid spoilers, but if you’ve read the book, you know what I’m, talking about).
Better than some of the others.Quinn Blackwood is a newly made fledgling vampire.
He seeks out the Vampire Lestat for help to rid himself of this otherworldly presence that has been with him since childhood and has no become more powerful and menacing.
Lestat calls in the help of a powerful witch in vampire named Merrick.
Can their combined powers help Quinn to finally be free?Vampires and witches combine in this tale.
The tale of The Vampire Quinn Blackwood is both captivating and horrifying.
I would definitely recommend this book to anyone who likes vampires, paranormal, witches, dark fantasy, or someone who is simply finishing the chronicle series.
This book...(sigh)...I have to say broke Anne Rice's spell over me.
Before this book I found all of her normal plot devices (strange bedfellows, supernatural creatures, really long flashbacks, narcissism) beguiling and entertaining.
But usually she chooses one or two of these things and shapes a really awesome story around it.
In Blackwood Farm she just decided to take everything she had EVER written about, mix it up together, and then multiply it by 1000.
But when I finished, I looked at the book (and myself) in disgust and asked one question: Did I really just read that?
This book made me feel used.
New vampire Quinn seeks to tell his story to Lestat.
Why would Quinn tell Lestat so many utterly personal secrets about himself?And can everyone stop falling in love!
After meeting Merrick for 5 seconds Quinn decides he loves her.
Quinn loves Arion, random Greek vampire who is just kind of there because why not.
And he seems to live in a weird time warp – this book was written in the 21st century, it reads like it would be old in the 80s!It’s not just Quinn – no-one behaves in a way that makes even the remotest sense for a person.
Anne Rice is as brilliant and clever as ever,proving why she is the reigning Queen of vampire novels.
As an avid lover of all things vampire,I am extremely critical of stories of them.
Our beloved Brat Prince,Lestat,is only present in spirit through most of the book,making appearances at the beginning and end,as the hero and hopeful-to-be mentor Quinn is wanting and seeking aid from.Intelligent and sensitive,Anne Rice gives us a vampire that is strong in both mind and spirit with Quinn Blackwood.
A completely refreshing change from all the Twilight wanna-be vampires out there.
Thank you,Anne,for reminding us that vampires die in the sunlight,not sparkle.
But part of the wonder that is Anne Rice, is that you can almost jump in on this series at any point and still be in for a rip-roaring and intense ride!There were some things I didn't quite get until I read the rest, like some of the smaller details, especially regarding Lestat.
But after reading the rest of the series, I think this is one of the best.
I've read many of the series over and over, and I will continue to do so!5 by 5!^.^
I just can't and I won't. This is full of every possible Anne Rice pathology to boot, to the extent when it feels like over-the-top fan fiction, including multiple instances of very questionable sexual/racial/class politics. It has the charm of a train crash, but it ultimately proved too much.
Entonces Tarquin le contará su historia y le mostrará Blackwood Farm, una finca que está más llena de secretos que de gente (y eso que se usa como hotel…).
Son cambios mínimos que le dan una excusa a Tarquin para seguir narrando su historia, la cual carece de pocas interrupciones y de pocas apelaciones al oyente.
(view spoiler)[ Para variar, no soporté a ninguno de los Mayfair (mucho menos a Mona) y no me dieron ganas de leer la saga que los tiene como protagonistas ¿Qué es lo excepcional en ellos?
Y decidí que no dispongo de más tiempo (y paciencia) para averiguar si mejora en los libros que quedan.
Tarquin's narrative meanders with Rice's usual rapt attention to the details of architecture, clothing, and decor, which stretches the book to more than six hundred pages.
Truthfully, my hand hurt from holding the book, but that's because I really couldn't put it down.
I was fascinated, and really pleased, particularly since I just read Blood and Gold and Pandora which were basically the same story for the third and fourth time, from a slightly different perspective with slightly more detail.
I am excited to finish out this series by reading Blood Canticle next.
I am normally a big fan of Anne Rice's Vampire Chronicles. There, I said it. But this one was terrible. You know, staid plot, boring writing, and real awkward sexual encounters with ghosts. But if you like that sort of thing, go for it.
And the plunge downhill begins in earnest. Lestat is empty; the writing is horrible. Only a waning sense of loyalty to Ms. Rice kept me reading.
Between the family histories, and the fabulous amounts of money, and the wondering about what the main character's spirit companion was all about, and then Quinn having sex with every-damn-body and falling desperately in love with the dying Mona Mayfair OUT OF NOWHERE (not kidding, he proposes to her in a hospital restaurant before he's even been introduced), I didn't know where to turn.And that's a shame, because there's a section towards the end of the book that deals entirely with the vampire characters, and it's really good.
Too haunted and strange?I have read Interview with the Vampire and The Vampire Lestat and I started The Witching Hour but did not finish it.
I, however, found I liked the story better when Goblin was in the background or out of the picture.Overall, this novel failed to "wow" me.
It was an okay story with special guest appearances by our favorite vampire and our favorite witch family, but as for Quinn Blackwood - well, I just don't really care what happens to him after this.
This book broke my heart. It is my least favorite of all the novels from the Vampire series. The character of Quinn was just too whiny and self indulgent for me to connect with and care for. And non of the other characters stepped up either. Even the presence of fictional character icon Lestat de Lioncourt couldn't save this story.
Trying to squeeze the last possible drop of blood from what has been an extraordinary series of books, Anne Rice comes up with Blackwood Farm. Halfway through the book, I still can't bring myself to care for any of the characters. Big letdown in my not so humble opinion.
a book is written marvelous, all the adventures, story of Quinn, action, not a single boring sentence...but I simply didn't like how Quinn's life turned on.
but I don't like Quinn with Mona and Lestat with Rowan (which will happen in last book).
But this is life, I know nobody would read a book where everybody would be happy and live forever same as every day.
Usually I read such thick books for half year because of so many pages.
I always get bored of books which have more than 400 pages, but not this one.
The history on armand and marius was great but i felt almost too much.
i appreciate the history of the character's.
In this circumstance, i love the brisk and in depth story.Blackwood Farm introduced Tarquin Blackwood, the prodigy son.
Quinn becomes a generous and caring man.The story interweaves Mrs. Rice's Vampire Chronicles and Mayfair Witches.
Quinn meets Mona Mayfair and falls madly in love.
Tarquin still loves Mona Mayfair with all his crazy heart.Quinn finds a hidden hermitage with a mosoleum.
This leads to a major turn of events.Anne Rice, please continue stories that weave like this.
I still feel like the places and people really exist somewhere, so that's a testament to the descriptive, detailed quality to Anne Rice's writing.
Or maybe it wasn't telegraphed as much as it seemed to be and the reason I saw through it so easily was because a very similar theme was explored in a more entertaining manner by one of my favorite authors way back in 1989.And of course you have the standard freaky Anne Rice sex scenes that seem almost intentionally designed to make you uncomfortable, but that's almost a given at this point.
I couldn't even finish this one. It was the last Anne Rice book I read, and probably will remain so. She seemed to write this one like I used to write my silly little stories when I was young: they were only vehicles for my girlish ambitions to have everything I wanted- wealth, power- and this book seemed to have little to do with a real plot. It bothered me immensely.
A great story that keeps you guessing unless you've read 'The Dark Half' (written over a decade before) by Stephen King in which case it simply seems familiar.
Every so often I work my way through this series again and I found myself reading the Vampire Chronicles for about the fifth time, as a friend of mine who had never read any of Ms. Rice’s work asked me to ‘buddy read’ them with her.
The last few months have been fun, bringing up memories from the other times I’ve read them, plus now creating new ones with our ‘buddy read’.I can’t believe I had never left a review for any of these books before, but sometimes I get so caught up in reading that I forget to leave a review.
So, I know - rating an Anne Rice book with five stars hardly surprises anyone who knows me, since I love her stuff/she's my favorite author.
But to celebrate Halloween, I re-read this one, which has long been one of my favorites.
Because it came later, it does not get talked about as often or recognized.
Lestat is here, and still it is relatively unknown.
It leaves me spent, invigorated, and longing to know more about Quinn.
In fact, second to Armand, Quinn might be my favorite character in the vampire chronicles.
I'm so glad I spent more time with this one!!!
Reread
Instead of concluding with a more mature character (I truly hoped that Tarquinn Blackwood would grow up and learn from his errors), the point of the book seems to be something like: "It's great to be a multi-billionaire immortal with powers to read minds and fly.
Tarquinn Blackwood has a few rather severe personality flaws, and that makes him all the more human, and interesting, and I liked him in spite of his tendency to act like a spoiled little girl with the vocabulary of an English lord.In closing, I'm going to gripe about the tone of the novel, which seemed to idealize and condone matters such as murder, incest, bribery, and sexual libido in children.
Para ver el resto de la saga  Crónicas Vampíricas :                   Coming soon: El Principe Lestat y los reinos de Atlantis (Crónicas Vampíricas #12)
This was so impossibly bad it makes my idea of Harlequin romance seem good.Sophomoric dialogue that was often repetitive - word count anyone?
If I never see the word 'egregious' again...
The premise had promise but two wonderful and artfully rendered series were stapled and glued together with zero finesse.
Even Rowan Mayfair, portrayed so well in The Witches series, comes off as flat, regimented and utterly unbelievable in her actions.
I've love Ms. Rice forever and have read and reread both series and still hope to see 'The Mummy, or Ramses the Damned' tale continued but this...

Anne Rice writes sex *gasp* who'd believe it. There once was a boy with a perfect family who has a spirit haunting him everywhere, but he becomes a vampire so everything's OK in the giant rich house the boy lives in, his trips to Europe, and his wonderful family. Crap Rice.
