https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/311152.Royal_Escape
Heyer's historical fiction is impeccably researched and always a good read. However, the booksellers market her novels as historical romance even when there is no romantic involvement of the characters in this story. Indeed, the only reason for a female in this story is as part of the disguise for Charles II as he escapes to France.If you want a bodice ripper, Ms. Heyer is not your author. If you want witty, drawing-room farce, Royal Escape is not your novel
As every reviewer stated, there was very little plot and the tension one would expect in a story about a fugitive attempting to escape from certain death, was definitely lacking.
But she certainly presented a plausible and believable tale of what very well might have happened.I usually enjoy Cornelius Garrett's narration on Heyer novels.
He did it in this book as well, and I found it even more annoying than usual.I still recommend the book.
This does not have the plot, pace or conclusion of other Heyer books, whether her romances, mysteries or other historical fiction.
I adored this book finding it nonstop fascinating.
And of course, since I knew LITTLE about this time period, I have checked out a whole bunch of books to find out more about him.
Our President just got inaugurated this morning (1/21/13) and so the political aspects of religious strife and unstable governments are very relevant.I also found it fascinating that Heyer wrote this book in 1937-38 just prior to England's being bombed by the Nazis for the next 6 years.
This book must have been inspirational to the Brits in what they were about to endure!Bravo, Georgette!
I got this book as a Christmas gift. I was not acquainted with this author but having read her book I am anxious to get a chance to read more of her works. The book was a true story but so well written it read like a very good novel. I have always enjoyed good books about life in old England I guess partly because I have ancestors that were there then but this book will surely have to be listed among my favorites. Great read!
He was popularly known as the Merrie Monarch, in reference to the liveliness and hedonism of his court.Monarch of the three kingdoms of England, Scotland, and Ireland.Charles II's father, King Charles I, was executed at Whitehall on 30 January 1649, at the climax of the English Civil War.On 6 February, the Covenanter Parliament of Scotland proclaimed Charles II as King of Great Britain in succession to his father, but refused to allow him to enter Scotland unless he accepted Presbyterianism throughout the British Isles.which authorised Presbyterian church governance across Britain.
Charles was given a very Scarlet Pimpernel-type persona (indolent, pampered yet for all that, clearly a true man!) and it was fun to read.
It appears to be a very faithful rendering of actual events.
The women's roles seemed thrown in to me but in reading other sources about Charles's escape, they were part of the events-- Maybe it was just the romantic turn put on the women that I found unnecessary; Charles's attitude toward Jane was particularly over the top and seemed to promise her returning later in the book.
Of course, as a faithful rendering of history, she did not ever appear again so it seems building up a big attraction was unnecessary.
Still, a fun read!
This book was, of course, bounded in by the need to stick to what had actually happened, but for all that, it was still enjoyable.
Were the story fictional it would be entirely unbelievable and no doubt heavily criticised for the "narrow escapes" and, particularly, the later chapters where trying to find a boat descends almost into the farce (the man locked in by his wife and daughters, for example) before it is resolved.
For all that, though, this is Heyer doing one of the things she is best at - creating flawed, funny characters who somehow manage to scrape through anything which is thrown at them.

I was prepared to not like this book, beginning as it does with a detailed account of the Battle of Worcester between the Royalists and Cromwell's Roundheads.
Actually, it's primary concerned with the end of that battle, when King Charles II is spirited away after his forces are routed.
What follows is an account of the next several weeks, when his friends and ordinary citizens conspire to keep him hidden and move him from place to place until they can arrange safe passage to France.
Even knowing the outcome it's a suspenseful tale, based on the author's meticulous reading of all the contemporary accounts available.
I enjoyed Heyer's fictionalised retelling of King Charles II escape from England - I'm now keen to read a N/F version of the account. This story has the same tone, witty humour and clever dialogue, and feel as her Regency books which gave this book an interesting if not 100% authentic feel (I don't think I could have endured true 1600 speak throughout this entire book though). Extra for others that like to know stuff like this too: some bawdy, "lusty" male/female, observations and comments. Cursing, including one son of a "she-dog".
Meh. I was thinking it would be more riveting. Instead, it was a little sloggy and the language was laborious. I kept finding myself thinking "this is the guy Jamie (from Outlander) wanted so much to install as king?" I was hoping I would love the author and I'm not sure if I'll look for any more. I'm sure the historical research was amazing and accurate, I just didn't like the storytelling so much.
This is a fascinating historical fiction! I was led to Heyer by Julia Quinn mentioning her as a favorite Regency Romance writer. Heyers books are so well written and I love the older language usage! My college professors would be amazed that I willing read 400 pages about Charles Stuart! Not a romance by the way!
An entertaining novel about the aftermath of Cromwell's defeat of King Charles II. Following the king through the English countryside, to hide in trees, manor houses and stables as he escapes from England to France keeps the heart pounding. One can barely comprehend the risks the king's followers took to protect their sovereign. A good read.
Actually read the 1968 edition but this was the closest. Historical but not a romance. More of a bromance! Well paced and some wonderful characters, though Wilmot drove me mad. A small slice of history that I never knew. Had to finish it.
a good read.
Didn’t finish
Okay, so we have the would-be king riding about the English countryside, or sometimes walking, trying to escape.
So the book is more of a character study of Charles IIAnd though well written and entertaining, to be honest I can’t say that I really liked our hero.
Though that may be my dislike of English kings coming through.
That being said it isn’t the best of books.What I did like was that although the female roles in the book are usually quite stereotypical every know and then Heyer seems to draw attention to this fact.
The royal who is making his escape is Charles II of England.
His aim is to secure a safe passage from England to seek refuge in France.Whilst I like most of the characterization and numerous scenes, more occasions than not left me bored.
At times, when there’s some character interaction, the dialogue speeds the narrative up a little, but 90 per cent of this novel is slow paced.Although it’s well plotted and historically researched, the plot tends to linger in one place too long in several instances.
Here he lives up to his nickname of “The Merry Monarch” and is by far the best character of the book.Huge potential for a cracking story lies dormant here, hidden beneath a snail-pace narrative.
As my book "The September Queen" recounts Charles II's escape after the Battle of Worcester - primarily the part involving Jane Lane, and her subsequent relationship with Charles - it was interesting to get acquainted with this book recently.It was enjoyable and compelling.
This is probably partly due to the author's times - the book was written in 1938.Also, Lord Wilmot and the Duke of Buckingham are presented as quite foolish when they certainly weren't.
Col. John Lane, Jane's brother, is also inexlicably brusque and unpleasant, which seems an odd characterization as he extended himself considerably and at great risk to himself to help Charles escape.But all in all an entertaining book.
Georgette Heyer is really hit and miss for me.
I think the hardest part of this book was that the description of it was misleading....I was anticipating this great heroine, and there wasn't one.
The only worthwhile female in the book didn't show up till 100 pages in and then was present for only about five pages.
Now, I'm not a huge women's rights person, but if you tell me there's going to be a female lead, I think there should be a female lead.
Anyway, the whole 250 pages spanned about five days, so there was a lot description and painful dialogue.
Her storytelling ability, her historical accuracy, both for events and for language used, are exemplary and she writes beautifully.
Royal Escape isn't the sort of book she is known for, but she always wanted to write more historical books, so makes sense knowng that.
She never manages to shake off her ability to spin a yarn though, and this book, while historically impeccable, is a delightful read.
There aren't many strong female characters, ulike so many of her other books, and of course, you know how it ends, more or less.
But it remains a great read and well worth a few hours of anyone's time.
All through the book Charles II is described as ugly.
I thought this was an exaggeration, because he sounds like a pretty awesome bloke, but after reading I did an image search on Google, and he IS ugly!
I'm gobsmacked he wasn't captured, he looks so distinctive!
Sorry for all the exclamation marks!I really enjoyed this, and feel like I've learnt a nice chunk of history, but it is a fairly heavy book.
However, I've still given it four stars because I expected this, having read a lot of Heyer's novels.
He meets friends, foes and the common man.Why I started this: I wanted an audio book to listen to with Mom as we drove across the country.
Having listened to other Heyer romances I thought that this would be a great pick.Why I finished it: First of all, this was not a romance like I was expecting.
With the traumatic end to our road trip, it took me a while to get back to the audio book.
If you love historical fiction and enjoy royalist England, you probably like this book a lot more than I did.
I had a hard time getting into this book, in part because I kept picking it up and putting it down while traveling, and in part because I had a hard time following what characters were talking/ being talked about so it was hard for me to follow the story line for the first chunk of the book.Once I got that straightened out, I enjoyed the plot and the characters. It was also fun to read about England and France while I was exploring those countries. I liked this one enough to give another Hyer a go!
Not the best of Heyer's works, but if you are looking for a true historical fiction and are willing to leave the realm of her typical romance fare for a bit, this is an interesting timeline of the the escape of King Charles II. Heyer made Charles quite likeable, even endowing him with quite a reckless sense of humor; whether this is her elaboration or fact, it makes the somewhat ponderous story much more entertaining. As always, her thoroughness in historical research is gratifying and leaves the reader feeling both entertained and edified.
This was the slowest, very boring adventures of escape of King Charles. After losing a battle against rebels, the king and his advisor run across England trying to get to France. Wilmont, the Kings trusted service man, seems to be the one who worries about capture more than the King. Because the King seems to not worry about being captured, this book dragged.Historically, the book was interesting.
Audio booked this and really liked the narrator. It was interesting to get a more historical novel from Heyer than a romantic one. Realized near the end it's the middle of a trilogy, so now I'll have to find the other ones that book-end it. I liked the story and the characters. The problem with historical fiction is you don't know what's real and what's fictional, but I still learned more about this period than I knew before. :)
Ok, this is NOT one of my favorite Heyer books. I read to within about 60 pages of the end and then skipped ahead to the last few pages. So, technically, I guess I finished it, ala Cab Edwards, but it just got to be repetitive about how poor ole Lord Wilmot et al were going to be able to get Charles II out of England before the Roundheads (Parlimentarians/Puritans/Cromwell's guys) found him. I'll stay happily with Heyer's Regency romances from now on.
The battle is lost at Worchester; 20 year old Charles II, now a marked man, must flee the country. But to get to Shoreham from there is a dangerous trek for the young king. Posing as a peasant and a servant, with many adventures and near misadventures along the way, he finally makes it to France.If you like history done in the form of a story, this is for you! I do love stories of historical people. Find out what they were like, how they lived, and all that good stuff.
Okay, this is a little slow and if you are reading this expecting one of Ms. Heyer's regular romantic tales, stop reading. Put the book down, walk away and find Frederica or False Colours. This is not for you. BUT, if you have an interest in Charles II and his escape from England after Oliver Cromwell's forces ruined his chances of regaining his throne, after the battle of Worcester, this is the book for you. Very accurate, very detailed. Just made me want more.
