https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/929332.Harmonium
But Father said there was no money for him to go to Paris, so Wallace gave up his bohemian dream and began to study the law.Stevens became a New York lawyer, good at making money, when, traveling on a train, he met Elsie Kachel, the most beautiful girl he had ever seen.
Wallace still loved New York, but Elsie hated it with a passion, so Wallace got a job in Connecticut that paid even more money (Hartford Accident and Indemnity, keeping the insurance money right where it belonged) and now Elsie had the life she always thought that she wanted.
HOLY SHIT GUYS HAVE YOU HEARD ABOUT THIS WALLACE STEVENS???From an email to a friend the morning I finished the book: " I love that his syntax is just a little skewed so that you're knocked off balance initially, but once you get to the end of what you're reading it's a little like you've been listening to the dialect of a particular mind.
THE MOTHERFUCKING MOON!) and makes them comic, but then also you kind of wonder a little bit at the end if he isn't also sort of buying into them too, like a little in love with the moon too.
...três míseras estrelas...mas a culpa é minha...Wallace Stevens é demasiado agreste e indecifrável para mim. Mas gosto muito deste:"O VENTO MUDAÉ assim que muda o vento:Como os pensamentos de um velho humano,Que pensa ainda ardentemente,Desesperadamente. O vento muda assim:Como uma humana sem ilusões,Que sente ainda coisas irracionais dentro de si.O vento muda assim:Como humanos chegando orgulhosamente,Como humanos chegando irritadamente. É assim que muda o vento:Como um humano, pesado, pesado,Que quer lá saber."
and turning it in your hand, to the spine with the paper label that reads harmonium makes you stop for an instant.
in a stack in the library with metal shelves.
if it werent for the patterned boards and the paper label i would have thought i was holding air.
it was the weight orginally that stopped me.
reading the titles with my mother and father in mind one thousand miles away and in the middle of winter while outside the library yellow daffodils were in bloom.
in a library with metal shelves, your aging parents in mind.
Yet it survives in its own form,Beyond these changes, good, fat, guzzly fruit.(from "The Comedian as the Letter C")He uses those big words like flourishes, as in rococo furniture, and somehow makes them look/feel/sound sensual, which is no easy feat to say the least.Another thing I loved about Stevens is his contemplative streak, which satisfied that part of me that loves complexity by showing how you can go beyond the sparse, albeit pretty, imagery-rich poetry pioneered by Ezra Pound and William Carlos Williams (and still practiced today).
Harmonium is Wallace Stevens' first book of poems, published when he was 44 years old and an insurance executive in Hartford.I have read probably all of Stevens' poems through the years.
There are some of his famous ones here, such as The Snow Man.Stevens is a poet to be savored for his language.
It is a language of colors and wordplay and metrics.
He is not a poet, like Emily Dickinson, to read for the insights.
It's not necessary, and it was probably a motive of the poet, not to be understood but to find pleasure by.
Imagination is his gateway to the spiritual world (I hesitate to say God, cuz it aint a religious thing) and the force that ostracizes him from everyday society.
You think your imagination is special, somehow more beautiful than the real thing, capable of giving real human beings a significance larger than their own estimations or comprehension?
Beware, however, because this force is omnipotent and thus heavily linked with death if not Death personified ("The Wind Shifts").My personal favorites are the love poems, most memorably portrayed in "The Apostrophe to Vincentine" and "Two Figures in Dense Violet Night." The lush romanticism in these poems is seething with dark beauty, like a warm bath of summer night sky.
"13 Ways of Looking At a Blackbird" was a huge game-changer for me, as it is for everybody, evidently. I was reading some rules for submission to some publisher and it had a specific rule, 1 among maybe 5, that you couldn't write "X ways of Ying at Z". So I guess that gives some idea of how big this stuff is in an outside-the-self sense of it, as if that meant anything.
even though the man can create an image...he still is a racist and classist.
Simple jaunt."The Comedian" is self-lacerating, not only about Crispin's earlier cultural role as "general lexicographer of mute / And maidenly greenhorns" corrupted by the "distortion of romance," but also about how his quest for authenticity, for "the veritable ding an sich" or "the fecund minimum," leads him first to an aesthetic of modernist asceticism— He gripped more closely the essential prose As being, in a world so falsified, The one integrity for him, the one Discovery still possible to make, To which all poems were incident, unless That prose should wear a poem's guise at last.—and then to his eventual domestic fate with poetry-blocking wife and daughters in his American colony: Yet the quotidian saps philosophers And men like Crispin like them in intent, If not in will, to track the knaves of thought.This third-person poem, epic rather than lyric, is not confessional but anti-confessional, Stevens's virtuoso rhetorical narration of his defeated double certifying that he is still a poet even if Crispin is not.
First Crispin smiled uponHis goldenest demoiselle, inhabitant,She seemed, of a country of the capuchins,So delicately blushed, so humbly eyed,Attentive to a coronal of thingsSecret and singular.
Second, uponA second similar counterpart, a maidMost sisterly to the first, not yet awakeExcepting to the motherly footstep, butMarvelling sometimes at the shaken sleep.Then third, a thing still flaxen in the light,A creeper under jaunty leaves.
Harmonium: Lazing on a Sunday morning over a cup of coffee, a woman considers and questions her religious beliefs.You may read online here.
Should have been called Snore-onium. Hey-o!
The Snowman and Sunday Morning are the stand-outs for me.
A poet more for the mind than the soul. I found myself liking a minority of the poems, but the collection is so long that this still left me with a number of poems that I enjoyed a great deal.
...That isn't a very profound statement, as I haven't read nearly as much poetry as I'd like.
He has their same elite education and erudition that is broth inseparable from the poetic stew, and his poetry is oftentimes similarly difficult as a result.
Stevens makes his work appear ephemeral, half-blent in air.
At his worst, Stevens' difficulty has the effect difficulty always has - it pushes the reader away, either discouraging them entirely or making them feel they must work at an understanding, even a basic one.
Stevens makes his personality resonate with your own, without a sacrifice on either end.
He plays with sound and images, and is able to use both successfully as building blocks in his poetry.
Even with simple words, he is able to create a sense of lyricism that both dazzles and bewilders the reader.
I like the way he uses permutation and repetition throughout his poems, often reiterating and redirecting at once.
Also, Harmonium has one of my favorite lines of poetry in "Disillusionment of Ten O'Clock," "Only, here and there, an old sailor,/ drunk and asleep in his boots,/ catches tigers/ in red weather."Still, I'm only giving it 3.5 stars because I don't necessarily feel like there's much coherence in the collection, and I definitely enjoyed some poems more than others...
I read this for a book club and already being very familiar with his contemporary William Carlos Williams' work, I found Stevens' poetry lacking in passion. Poetry should make you feel, see or experience something. This collection merely left me feeling as though this was Stevens' outlet from office work, that he knew and chose to use a few big words, and he didn't like people. Nothing really drew me in, maybe it speaks to someone else, just not me.
Yes, "The Emperor of Ice-Cream" is by far the best, coming closest for me to approaching the beauty of Russian poesie. Otherwise, a mighty kindness to these works.
Anthropologies of the English.Stevens' Collected Poems replaces the original publications.
A good comparison to the first Harmonium is Swampy Cree Tales, where Howard Norman does for the Cree what Stevens does for the Caucasoid.
By Caucasoid understand English, its most powerful cousin, the most well managed public campaign we can find.
Its anthropologists have excavated the beliefs and tales of every tribal race and culture but their own, where they are tongue tied.
Voth documented the Hopi, but who will document the English?
Wallace Stevens has excavated the Caucasoid!
What then are the anthropologies of the English?
and "Wallace Stevens Naturalist," http://humanbotany.blogspot.com/2010/...
There are poets of an earlier time that seem to resonate, no matter how far removed in decades or centuries the reader is from the writer.
You can still pull something out of it that affects you in a personal way.
Wallace Stevens is not one of those poets.
Anecdote of the Jar hold up, if nothing else than because it's a poem you probably heard in school once or twice.
Poetry shouldn't necessarily be easy to read, but it also shouldn't feel like pulling teeth to find some meaning somewhere.
By the last poem, you end up toothless.

I think I may have had this revelation when I realised you don't need to understand what's going on in David Lynch's film Mullholland Drive.
His writing revels in the joy of language.
The only problem I have with Stevens is his writing is so obscure and irregular that it is difficult to get into the music of his work or for his lines to linger in your mind.
This provides another stark contrast to TS Eliot because as difficult as Eliot is he was a master of making his poetry musical and rhythmic and his lines do linger in your mind.
Great book.
Great Poet.
Get the Collected Poems, where you will find all of the poems in Harmonium, and more.That being said, many of Stevens's most famous (and best loved) poems are here in Harmonium: Thirteen Ways of Looking at a Blackbird, The Snow Man, The Emperor of Ice-Cream, Sunday Morning, Anecdote of the Jar, ...
and more.Here is the eighth stanza of "Le Monocle de Mon Oncle":Like a dull scholar, I behold, in love,An ancient aspect touching a new mind.It comes, it blooms, it bears its fruit and dies.This trivial trope reveals a way of truth.Our bloom is gone.
I have a question for readers of this book.
In the version of "the man whose pharynx was bad" in that volume, the lines "perhaps if summer ever came to rest / lengthened, deepened, comforted, caressed / through days like oceans in obsidian horizons" are omitted.
An endnote says that these lines were included in the version of the poem published in The New Republic ten years before Harmonium, in 1921.My question is : does the version in Harmonium have these lines?
They are a fundamental part of the structure and meaning of the poem.
How can this be the "best" book of poetry by ws without these lines?Reflect, ponder, excogitate, reply.
"She says, 'But in contentment I still feel / The need of some imperishable bliss.' " I've read 'Sunday Morning' about once a month, usually on Sunday afternoons, since I first discovered it through a Library of America 'story of the week' email. I wasn't disappointed by the rest of the collection. Anecdote of the Jar and Of the Surface of Things and The Curtains in the House of the Metaphysician and Tea at the Palaz of Hoon and Peter Quince at the Clavier stood out to me as well.
I took time off, from the Honorable School Boy to read some poetry by Wallace Stevens, the first being Harmonium. So far I am loving these poems, very inspiring! Definitely recommend for anyone wanting to further their love for poetry, but would not recommend for someone who hasn't read much poetry before, because the language is pretty difficult to understand. I'm reading more so don't worry.
There was a period in the mid 90s I considered Stevens damn near a god where writing poetry was concerned-he may have been the same as an insurance executive but I really cant say. It calls to mind the great Mark Van Doren review of the work in 1923 "entative, perverse, and superfine; and it will never be popular".Damn good stuff if you like your poetry requiring you to work a bit.
This little book of poems was my best friend when i was traveling alone for a month. It talked to me and I talked to it and we shaped each other. It fell apart in the end and I then graduated to a complete works. Stevens is my favorite american poet.
First book of poetry (besides maybe some Yeats and Byron) that got me into good poetry. He's not the most elegant formalist, but he's certainly the best philosopher-poet. Makes most of his contemporaries, especially TS Eliot, look like froth-mouthed children.
