https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/64105.The_Last_Enchantment
"Here, away from lights and sounds of town or village, the night was deep, the black sky stretching, fathomless, away between the spheres, to some unimaginable world where gods walked, and suns and moons showered down like petals falling.
Music can take them, and the moon's light, and, I suppose, love, though I had not known it then, except in worship."There has been nothing more comforting to me than to sit curled up with Mary Stewart's Arthurian series these past several weeks.
It's difficult to express the joy I feel when reading what has become a treasured book series.
It is a shame to rate this instalment the same as The Hollow Hills (as I found that book leaden in parts) & less than The Crystal Cave, but I do have good reasons. Bear with me.   I found the first two parts of this novel absolutely enthralling, with Mrs Stewart's trademark lyrical language & description of place. But in Part 3, along with the waning of Merlin's powers, came the waning of the story. I know this was the story of Merlin the Enchanter. But my late parents were musical lover
But in Part 3, along with the waning of Merlin's powers, came the waning of the story.
This was the part of the legend I had been eagerly awaiting, but Mrs Stewart sheds no light on Guinevere's apparent lack of interest in the most powerful man of his age - who was young, handsome & in this telling, treated her with unfailing courtesy.
Better?When Merlin was (view spoiler)[ entombed in his beloved cave, I felt every moment.
(hide spoiler)] & I'm glad Nimuë wasn't portrayed as a total villainess, because the legend was starting to feel misogynistic.
In her inimitable way, Stewart gives us the final days of Merlin and brings us full circle to the beginning of The Crystal Cave, in which we are introduced to an old man setting out to tell his tale of wonder in service to his god.Arthur, now King of all Britain, must deal with all the obstacles to his reign that have become so much a part of the legend of his life.
That's why I think it's definitely the best book in the series so far and definitely the perfect finish for Merlin's story.
Από τη μία, φυσικά, αυτό δεν σημαίνει και πολύ καλά πράγματα καθώς ουσιαστικά πολύ σημαντικά κομμάτια της ιστορίας του βασιλιά Αρθούρου που έχουν μάλιστα και κάποια ιστορική βάση μένουν απέξω.
Οπότε αυτό το βιβλίο μπορεί να μην είναι κάτι συγκλονιστικό αλλά σίγουρα έχει την αξία του.
Για αυτό νομίζω ότι σίγουρα είναι το καλύτερο βιβλίο της σειράς ως τώρα και σίγουρα το ιδανικό τελείωμα για την ιστορία του Μέρλιν.
I've been reading this King Arthur series over and over since I was a teenager. I love it so much, I have a hard time reading any other version of the King Arthur tale. The series is written from the viewpoint of Merlin.
And now a happy story.I read the original Merlin trilogy pretty much when it came out...I was 10 when I read The Crystal Cave and The Hollow Hills, and had to wait until I was 16 before Mary Stewart put out this book, the final book of the (then) trilogy.
In this, his final book, the narrator (Merlin, for those that don't know) slips into old age and gives up his story--and, in a sense, his life--with the calm and depth of a man who has lived a good life...and knows it.
The only new thing in this one is that Stewart throws Merlin a curve ball by having him fall in love.
I think it’s because Stewart does a lot of telling to the readers about what Morgause is up to so you feel like you are hearing this story from a random guy who tries to chat you up at the bar.
Instead this whole book was really about himI think the ending was abrupt and was lacking some oomph that for all it’s faults that I had with “The Hollow Hills” at least delivered on by having Arthur crowned king.
I love the Arthurian story too, but it feels like Stewart shielded almost all the characters from harm — even, in this case, some of the female characters, despite the misogynistic to ambiguous treatment in the rest of the series.
It feels like everything-and-the-kitchen-sink, especially with the way she shields her characters from the consequences; we’ve got Nimue and Merlin in a love story, and Nimue does indeed bury Merlin alive, and yet she didn’t mean to.
And Merlin is buried alive and ‘dies’ there, but… he doesn’t die.The writing is still good, and it was entertaining enough, but… this series falls short of excellence.Originally posted here.
Getting back to this with the Mary Stewart group. July 2018Oooo! This is the best of the 3 for me. Full review to follow. Very satisfying read.
Thus, Merlin's chief concern in this book is to find out everything he can about the child's fate, and to protect Arthur as best he can.This book is not Arthur-centric in the sense that the narrator follows all of Arthur's achievements.
It is Arthur-centric in the sense that everything Merlin does is prompted by his desire to protect Arthur and aid him.
And for me, the greatest beauty of this series is the Merlin-Arthur relationship; the love and respect they feel for each other.
Arthur knows that Merlin is the one person upon whom he can absolutely rely, the one person who will never betray him.
So much for this binge; now I'll have to settle down and catch up on required reading. But it's been lovely. This, like vols. 1 and 2, is a very satisfying retelling of the story of Arthur from Merlin's point of view. Such a nice rereading to start the year! Even if you've read the series, do listen to the audio. Story and narrator combine for a fabulous experience.
This third book of Mary Stewart's "Merlin Trilogy", The Last Enchantment has proven to be my favorite of the set.
The Last Enchantment was one of those fantasy novels that made me want to really take my time, just to savor the story itself, relishing not only in the classic Arthurian mythos that I love but also in the writing style of Mary Stewart.
And I did take my time, nearly a whole week for just one novel!I enjoyed the first two books in this trilogy quite a bit but this one was one notch better still.
For me this was 3.5 stars rounded up for the beautiful imagery and ponderous beauty of Merlin's thoughts and "hibernation" period quite after Arthur's reign has started.
It covers numerous events in the Arthurian saga from "outside" Merlin eyes- which is often for/from great distances and context misty.
As Merlin relinquishes more and more of his control and power hierarchies and abilities "owned"- I just feel he is less and less Merlin.
Arthur is THE KING and holds that ability of practical applications controls over all other human parlance in his life.
This is part III of the series and a re-read for me. Arthur has revealed himself and begun to establish himself as King and his half-sister Morgause and established herself as the witch she truly is. Still a great story and I am off to part IIII.
I don't think this is the correct edition. Mine isn't abridged, but I didn't see the correct one. I think the reader is correct & very good. An excellent end to the trilogy. I know Stewart added another book years later & while I have read it once, I don't really want to listen to it. This is plenty.
The third of five books in the series and I am thoroughly enjoying them.
Light and airy and heavy and filled with wisdom.......And polyamory......Acceptance.....No jealousy.Just love...."Rest here, enchanter, while the fire dies.In a breath, in an eyelid's fall, he will see them - the dreams: The sword and the young king, the white horse and the running water, the lit lamp and the boy, smiling.Dreams, dreams, enchanter!Gone with the harp's echo when the strings fall mute.With the flame's shadow and the fire dies.Be still and listen!Far on the black air blows the great wind, rises the running tide, flows the clear river.Listen, Enchanter!Hear through the black air and the singing heir,The music."
Yet even in the latter episode, Merlin spends much of the time in a dreamlike trance, then falls into a coma and is buried alive in his hermitage at Bryn Myrddin; and, in the former, he’s the rower who takes Bedwyr to where Guinevere is held, he doesn't do anything.I can’t blame Stewart entirely for this.
It’s too fairy-tale like and sentimental to ring true, and one can only wonder how delusional Merlin is when he so calmly accepts Nimuë’s explanation of his interment:She lifted her head.
If I tried to stop reading, this would happen, for sure :DEven though I thought -every time I finish her books in this series- I can't love this story more.
Now, I give up to think I can't love this more but I can't wait to see how she will make me more fascinated :))) (view spoiler)[(Well, even though I feel sad that I won't read story Merlin's view anymore and he is gone :(( well if we don't have any more surprise :))) (hide spoiler)]["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>
I know I read this trilogy when it first came out, but that was long, long ago in a place far, far away.
I had forgotten I loved Mary Stewart's writing.
Reading the third book as a stand-alone was easy.
I loved the detail, which to some might be too much, but to me was beautiful.
Every sentence it seems, is packed with nuance of color, sound, smell, sight, feeling, giving me a deep sense of place and time.
The story moves at a pace that fits the times.
I felt like I was Merlin, observing and experiencing everything through his eyes.Lovely.
July 2018 group read for the Mary Stewart group.
I really enjoyed this trilogy but wish I had read them straight through because it is hard for me to decide which I preferred.
I did not at first realize that it was so focused on Merlin and had hoped for more on Arthur and Guinevere, but now I am happy that it was focused on Merlin.
I see him and the Arthur legend much differently now and I love the way Mary Stewart weaves all the many characters and events together.
She was a master.
Not bad. Stewart makes her characters likeable even the baddies. Merlin is telling the story and so he lets you see every side of the story. I think these books were written in the 70's, however they don't seem dated and I really enjoyed my time with them.
This is due to the fact that Merlin is our main character, and it is told from his perspective, and Arthur is the one going off and making things happen, and while Arthur tells Merlin what is going on when he comes back, we are no longer there first hand like we have been for a few of the battles throughout Merlin’s lifetime.
Yes, there are a few twists that come in at the end, but those are not anywhere near what is needed to make the concluding times of Merlin’s life at all interesting.
I had a harder time getting through this book than I did the earlier two books on Merlin.
The book is very good, and the plot is much better than any I've read on Mordred...he isn't a bad man, he doesn't 'plan' Arthur's demise or to betray his father...it's just that fate and mistakes of man have made it so the two men are destined to destroy one another.
I missed any information on Merlin either...he just disappeared from the entire story, even though he wasn't dead.
I enjoyed the book and the story, it just wasn't as good as the first two books in the series...
Stewart's ability to portray Merlin as a real person makes for delicious reading, but I think her descriptives of simple scenes is what touches me the most.
The herbs he smelled, the lighting, the arc of a raven, the ghost of footprints in the frost...
Even though my life has been crazy busy and I haven't been able to read my book a day as in times past (gods, have I ever taken this long to finish a book series?), every time I sat to read this, I fell effortlessly into where I left off.
It's so much better than I remembered.
It would seem that Mary Stewart practiced her own subtle alchemy while writing The Last Enchantment. She has turned Arthurian Legend into a golden trilogy using some magical writing process that I could almost envy, if I did not admire it so. I highly recommend this book! Stewart's creation will transport you back in time with beautiful prose that is rich in detail. Merlin comes to life and takes you on a wonderful journey you will never forget!
4.5 stars
But Arthur is a minor character in this novel, as Stewart focuses on Merlin, the king's cousin, mentor, advisor, prophet, and friend.
In "The Last Enchantment", as in the previous novels, Merlin's mystical abilities are never as powerful as in the familiar legend; his abilities limited to his education, his wisdom, and the ability to occasionally see visions of the present and future.
In this novel, he loses his clairvoyant power, yet retains his value to Arthur as a trusted advisor and mentor.Despite Merlin's power and stature within the new kingdom, he shows considerable humanity.
I awarded an extra star because Stewart kept the quality consistently high throughout the trilogy.
I wish I had read the 3 books in this series closer together so they would form a more cohesive narrative, but it seems like this book was quite different from the first two.
I thoroughly enjoyed these books in a way completely separate from Bernard Cornwell's Warlord Chronicles.
If you want an Arthurian story closer to T.H. White's or just like great storytelling I'd definitely recommend this.
The way that people act and think is very believable and it manages to treat the female characters well while still trying to adhere to the traditional narratives about them, which is not easy.
“Old? Yes, we must all grow old. Age is nothing but the sum of life.” An amazing series that has everything you expect from a book.
The original conclusion to Stewart's "autobiographical" Merlin trilogy -- she later added more books, from different points of view (if I remember correctly).
