https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/5360.A_Painted_House
I learned that John Grisham should write more books in this genre because this is his best work....forget all those clients, partners, pelicans.
Grisham grew up in Arkansas, the son of a cotton farmer, and went on to Law School but swiftly left that field of endeavor.
The next week I read "The Partner" which was clever and classy and all those best-seller adjectives.
However, as I started reading "The Painted House" it was a most touching, true and arresting book that deserves the most serious consideration.
Not just a "coming of age" story, this book deals with so many universal themes that no one could read it without making contact.
Great read! therapeutic,compelling,enjoyable and a moving storyline...determination,twist and turns to hold your interest to the end..well written (paperback)
Great read! therapeutic,compelling,enjoyable and a moving story...determination,twists and turns to hold your interest to the end..well written (paperback!)
This was such a horrible book!
It had potential - I kept thinking the story would come around but once I got 2/3 way through the book, I knew there was no room left for a story.
There is absolutely NO story.
We are introduced to this family and the other characters for no reason.
It's almost like the author had great ideas for characters but couldn't come up with a story line.If you've never read Grisham and this is your first book - PLEASE don't judge him by it.
This is, by far, his worst book in my opinion.

For being from John Grisham, this was such a great book!
For a long time I've enjoyed his legal thrillers, but after a while I suspected each book would be exactly the same as the last with the only difference being the plot.
When this book first came out I couldn't wait to read it and I fell in love with his ability to tell a heartfelt, meaningful story having nothing to do with law.
I liked this book so much that I even recorded the Hallmark channel original that was made of it!
I was wary when this book came out - doubting Grisham could pull off historical fiction.
It’s obvious Grisham drew from his personal experiences growing up in rural Arkansas.
This is a heart-wrenching story of an impoverished farming community.
It’s got it all, destitute share-croppers, migrant farm workers, a sweet young boy who lives for baseball, a devastating flood and a mentally unhinged murderer thrown in for good measure.
I wonder if Grisham had written this under a pseudonym if it would have been taken more seriously.
Who knows, even ranked as one of the great American novels - it was that good.
A surprisingly good book.
For me anyway because usually I'm not into the legal courtroom thrillers (which this book is not) so I have avoided Grisham.
And I have to also humbly admit that I have only read one of his novels, The Firm, and I liked it.
I only read this because my mom recommended it and I felt like I needed to reciprocate because she usually reads my recommendations.
This was a pretty darn good read.
Even though there were a couple of pretty harsh moments in the book I think I would have to call this a 'feel good' story.
This is not the usual John Grisham fare, but instead is a beautiful story told with great warmth and compassion. I have always enjoyed Grisham's books as good airplane reads--but never expected that he would write a book that I would list as one of my all-time favorites.
There is not a single lawyer in A Painted House; the best we get is a single policeman, because this story is set in rural Arkansas in 1952.The novel is narrated in first person by a certain Luke Chandler, who also happens to be seven year old.
The Chandler family are cotton farmers, and the book chronicles their struggles from late summer to early fall, when they harvest their crop with the help of Mexicans And Hill People.
I liked this book. There isn't any wild climatic events that you may find in other Grisham books. This is a simple novel of a simple life as told by a seven year old boy. Still, Grisham manages to capture the feelings of the times; a poor family in the south who hire workers to harvest their cotton and the drama that ensues with these "lower class" folk. I can see why a lot of Grisham fans wouldn't like this, it's a departure from his normal genre.
A boy from Arkansas (who loves the Cardinals and baseball and dreams of moving to St. Louis, all pluses in my book) grows up living the hard life on a cotton farm in the 50s.
The book paints a vivid picture of what that common life might be like, with coming of age stories, family drama, and interpersonal conflicts, all while throwing in the less common intrigues of murders and a natural disaster.
The relationships between ethnic groups, the role of the church, the pace of a 50s farm life, the ties of family, the importance of the paint on your house and its contrast to disasters, and finally the ambiguity of realized dreams...
I seldom give five stars; they must be earned by the author's offerings. This book supplied all the necessary plot ingredients to satisfy the curiosities of this avid, mature reader. (No desire to see the movie, it could not possibly do this story justice.) Its not for the squeamish or sheltered reading audience. A realistic slice of life, poor/destitute Arkansas folks during the early Fifties, well-described and believable.
This book came to me very highly recommended.
I had two friends who really really liked it and just knew I would love the story too.
I suppose if it had been cleaned up a bit, I probably would have liked it more.
The characters were engaging enough although the plot did seem to drag a little bit and left you feeling like the auther was searching for a plot in a rambling sort of way.
I also couldn't get past the feeling that I was reading the thoughts of a teenage boy, not a seven-year-old.
Amazingly I had never ever heard of this Grisham work until I read the book.
I have read other Grisham works and never liked those.
The most amazing part of this book is that it is written from the perspective of a 7 year old.
This so reminds me of the fantastic 'A Christmas Story' which is told from the point of view of little Ralphie.
His perspective on both the Mexicans, the Hill People, his family, his neighbors and the townsfolk is enlightening.
The best work of Grisham in my view and this book stays on my bookshelf.
I like Grisham's legal thrillers on occasion, and I love SKIPPING CHRISTMAS. This is an altogether different beast. Straight up historical fiction, set on a struggling cotton farm in 1950's Arkansas, it's as much a picture of that time and place as it is a coming of age tale. I would recommend this to teens, I think it would be great for classroom discussion. It's a sort of post-Depression, Grapes of Wrath-lite.
I felt this was one of the best stories I can recall written from this era and brought so fully into focus.Luke Chandler, 7 years old, lives in Black Oak Arkansas with his Mom and Dad, Gran and Pappy on a cotton farm.
The cotton is their world.
When the story begins, it is harvesting time.
The decisions made at the beginning of the harvest turn out to have irrevocable consequences for the Chandlers, the Sprools- the "hill people', and the people of Black Oak. These decisions and their resulting effects are unspooled steadily and with increasing tension as the story progresses in a wonderfully mesmerizing tapestry, full of color and vibrancy.In essence, I was enthralled by this story.
I read this some time ago.
The story is told through the eyes of an eight-year-old.
I'm not sure, but I understand the story is based on John Grisham's childhood.
John Grisham told a very heart moving tale of the hard times as a farmer through the eyes of a young boy.
The boy had me laughing at times with some of his silly pranks.
Great read and there were times you laugh and times you sat on the edge of your seat.
This book is a wonderful read for any age.
I have read several of his previous works and I found this novel to be a refreshing change, for the writer.
Until that September of 1952, Luke Chandler had never kept a secret or told a single lie.
But in the long, hot summer of his seventh year, two groups of migrant workers—and two very dangerous men—came through the Arkansas Delta to work the Chandler cotton farm.
And as young Luke watches the world around him, he unravels secrets that could shatter lives—and change his family and his town forever
I picked this book up at a library book sale, and didn't have very high expectations for it. But after the first few pages I was hooked. It's a great sweet story.
While it's not as exciting and riveting as Grisham's other works, and it took me about six chapters to get into the story, it was still an enjoyable book.Set in 1952 Arkansas, 7-year-old Luke Chandler is forced to grow up quickly when he becomes exposed to several adult situations.
Luke is not pleased when the hill people set up camp in the front yard, right in the middle of his baseball diamond, but is even less pleased when one of them turns out to be a bully and is involved in a fatal fight in town one Saturday.
Even though the plot didn't move too quickly, I still enjoyed this book and will continue reading Grisham's work.
Not your typical Grisham novel. It did get my attention with the story line. Always up for a good southern mystery.
Told through the eyes of a very wise seven year old boy (who realistically should have been more like 10 or 11 -- he's too mature and thoughtful for seven, I think), this is the story of one fall cotton harvest season in 1952 Arkansas.
The motley cast of characters include "hill people" and Mexican migrant workers, who come to help with the cotton harvest, the multi-generational Chandler family, who live on and are renting the farmland, and other local families.
Throughout the cotton-picking season, his "Pappy's" house slowly gets painted (but by whom?), giving the book its title.
This was the first John Grisham book I’ve read in years.
It was different than what we normally see from him; it wasn’t a legal thriller.
It wasn’t fast-paced; it’s not the type of story that’s meant to move along quickly.
It was a realistic story about the everyday life of seven-year-old, Luke.
They wake before the crack of dawn – tend to the animals, eat breakfast – then it’s off to the cotton fields to work in the baking sun for a twelve hour day.
This is the type of story that really makes you appreciate the luxuries of modern day technology.

I enjoyed it, but I couldn’t rate it...
The audiobook narrator makes this better than my own reading would be.I am biased against 1st person point-of-view (thanks to the New Adult genre).
I was also happy about Luke and his parents starting something new that was going to be good.Some readers complained that some of the story lines were not finished at the end.
But that was because the stories were good and I didn’t want to stop.WHAT’S IT ABOUT?Luke’s family owns a cotton farm.
The story begins in September as they hire a group of Mexicans and a family from the hills to help pick cotton.
This is NOT your father's Grisham!From the back cover: Until that September of 1952, Luke Chandler had never kept a secret or told a single lie.
This is an interesting description that tells nothing and everything about the book :)First, the only thing about this book that is Grisham-like is that it takes place in the South.
Other than that, you'd never know who wrote this book if his name wasn't on the cover.In some ways, it reminded me of a book I read in high school -- John Steinbeck's The Grapes of Wrath.
Whether you like typical Grisham or not, this is a great book.
The family hires a crew of Mexicans and "hill people" to pick the cotton for the season alongside of Luke.
Luke is witness to a serious of events between the Mexicans and hill people that will leave you reeling for more, honestly I know why there is not a sequel to this book because I don't really think you can top the drama that occurred on the farm.The Chandler family struggles to get the cotton picked before the storms come which will wipe out the crops ...
Found this very entertaining. Good story. I can see a movie being made of this tale about a little boy getting caught up in adult drama when all he wants to do is dream about being a professional baseball player someday. Centered around the hard life of a poor farming family in 1950s Arkansas, and seen through the eyes of a 7-year-old, many of the most dramatic elements of the story could be very compelling cinemagraphicaly and, if done right, the characters' plights very moving.
