https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/95622.The_Last_Sin_Eater
Cadi believes this mysterious creature is the answer to her own problems and decides to do whatever it takes to find him, including alienating all of the other members of her clan who fear and hate the "sin eater."This story clearly portrays the Gospel message and the need for evangelism.
It could also be used as an evangelistic gift as the message of salvation is clear.I am rating it 4 stars as I personally found the style of writing during conversations tricky to read in places but I would definitely recommend this book.Check out my Francine Rivers shelf!
Maybe there was a depth to Rivers that is often missing in popular Christian fiction.
Well - if Francine Rivers has a greater depth than most, it wasn't evident in "The Last Sin Eater".
I mean, I actually really liked the concept, but about half-way through the novel the concept started unraveling into a simplistic evangelical salvation presentation.
Thing is, while it started as a metaphor set in a superstitious mountain community, it was turned into a modern gospel pitch, and it just didn't fit culturally so it wasn't believable.
Anyways - I didn't like The Last Sin Eater.
In my view, she does a good job of creating a believable world for her characters to inhabit, but then she over-simplifies the spiritual aspects of her plot and characters so that I am unable to relate to their spiritual journeys in any way that feels connected to the real world or real people.
It seems inconceivable that people would develop an unshakeable faith in Christianity after hearing a few sermons from a complete stranger, consisting of mostly quotations from the Bible given in unfamiliar language.
There was no time for the Appalachian people to develop a relationship with the preacher in this novel.
This is one of my all time favorites! A great story set in the isolation of the Appalachian Mountains. I loved the generational relationships between the older women in the community and the children. Also, just the unpredictablity of the storyline. A great read!
The old custom of a sin-eater is a fascinating one, and the parallels to Jesus Christ are obvious, especially as clearly depicted here by Francine Rivers.
What a unique and unusual way to present the meaning of the Gospel.
Their reactions to hearing truth spoken range from joyful acceptance to hardhearted opposition and defiance, as is true with us today.
I understood the need for many scripture references when the Man of God was talking, but that is the one element I thought could have been a little shorter and still made the same point.
Guilt, misunderstanding, deception, forgiveness, courage, inquisitiveness, true love, and Salvation are all present as elements of this plot.
I loved this book. Kinda weird, but I really liked the message about grace. Again, good redemption theme runs throughout. Lilybet cracked me up!
Francine Rivers is absolutely my favorite Christian fiction author because she delves deeper than the usual romantic fare.
Her most well-known book is Redeeming Love, which is also great, but my favorite book written by her is "The Last Sin Eater".
Thanks to the help of her invisible friend (an angel?) and an itinerant preacher, she finds the answer to all her troubles and draws her community, still enslaved to the Shamanism of their ancient Scottish culture, to spiritual freedom that is only found in Jesus Christ.
Because of her pain, she decides to, and is encouraged by an enigmatic, imaginary(?) friend seek out the village's Sin Eater, a man who is chosen by lot to be the one who takes the sin of the recently deceased upon himself so that the dead man or woman may be saved, though as a result the Sin Eater is condemned to hell, or so the belief goes.Meanwhile a Man of God arrives in the valley and begins to proclaim the Word of God and the village Kai (forgive me if the spelling is wrong, I listened to this book; I did not read it), who is the village leader and also the son of the man who revived the Sin Eater practice from old Scottish/Welsh traditions forbids the village from listening to him.
It follows the story of a 10 year old girl, Cadi Forbes, her family and her clan.
The number one thing that I did love about this book is that it is told in the eyes of Cadi, the little ten year old girl.
Plus her parents disown her because she believes in Jesus Chirst..which just makes you go "Awwwwwwwww :(" The one thing that I did not like about the book was the ending.
And when Cadi and her friend are trying to explain to the whole clan about Jesus, it just seemed like Francine Rivers copied and pasted the Bible.
The people of the village were depressed and carrying the weight of their past transgressions, but the way this was written made them seem like they were just moody.I also didn't relate very well to the way the characters talked and processed things.
For instance, Cadi, the ten-year-old protagonist, feels more like a 16 year old in the way she talks and thinks.
That's all well and good if you are wanting a Bible Study with your novel, but I feel like that's not what most people are looking for.
Can I just say . . . FAGAN KAI FAGAN KAI FAGAN KAI!!!!!!! Also Sim Gillivray. Kill me now.
I've read this book several times and watched the movie, and it's a firm favourite.Funny story: I actually dreamt this whole book, as a movie, and was convinced for months that I'd actually seen it (though I had NO IDEA where I'd watchied it).
The movie is still pretty good though, one of the better Christian movies I've seen.I love this book for a reason that no one seems to have mentioned yet: (view spoiler)[the romance between Cadi and (oh no!
Francine not only knows how to craft a riveting story, but one full of spiritual depth and challenge, too.The Last Sin Eater sounds like a strange book but it only takes a few moments to get drawn into the old tale set in the heart of the mountains among a handful of families who settled there only 2 generations ago.
The characters are no longer people on pages but breathing beings in your imagination as Anita flawlessly shares this tale.No matter how you enjoy this book - in print or in audio format - you will be swept away in time to once again witness the redemption of God.BOOK OVERVIEW:All that matters for Cadi Forbes is finding the one man who can set her free from the sin that plagues her.
This is another historical fiction book that had a super interesting premise; a Sin Eater was a person who was paid to take upon himself the sins of the deceased & their consequences in the afterlife.
The author's note says that the practice was common in the early 19th century in England, Scottish lowlands and near the Welsh border.
The custom was brought over by some immigrants to the Americas & practiced in remote areas of Appalachia.
This story focuses on one such (fictional) sin eater and the small village he serves.
I think I'd've enjoyed the book more if the last 4 chapters or so had been condensed.
After her grandma died, she is obsessed with finding the Sin Eater to get rid of her guilt.
The sin eater makes her promise to go see the “man of God” who has arrived in her valley weather he is able to take away her sins or not.
The Kai’s rule the valley and has given the valley the Sin Eater who come at the death of anyone in the valley and “eats their sin” When Cadi finds the true one who takes away sin – Jesus everything changes.
The book is filled with people from the valley and their secrets.
This book was outstanding.
It had everything in it...folklore from Scotland and Wales, murder, guilt, sadness, joy, unrequited love, marriage for the sake of producing children, but no reciprocal love, innocent children, cruel and cold parents, cowards, secrets, God and of course the last sin eater.
A very captivating book of fiction, but with the Truth sprinkled throughout.
It is not a children's book although it is about the bravery and courage of two youngsters who learned much and shared much and stood up to those who would harm them.
I'd gotten more than I'd hoped for from this book!!It's the beautiful, Sweetly sorrowful story of a young girl, Cadi Forbes, who has, in her eyes, committed an almost unforgivable sin.
When he fails, and she thinks that all hope is gone for her, a man shows up...a man of God, who, with a few simple words, shows her the truth of Jesus Christ, the only one who can cleanse us from our sins.
The one and the only Sin Eater.If you haven't read this book, please do, you will be glad that you did!
The story takes place in the Smoky Mountains in the 1850's.
The sin eater taker the sins open himself and the person can be clean before God. Young Cadi Forbes questions this and sets out to meet the Sin Eater.
Along the way she meets a man of God who has come to preach the truth that only believing in Jesus can set you free.
The story line and the characters all are a parable of sorts , showing how people can be deceived and how God can shine his light in the world.
Francine Rivers remains a master storyteller. She casts a spell with her Appalachian setting and charming backwoods characters in The Last Sin-Eater. I felt the book was a bit too pedantic, and having the two children know so much scripture after spending only a few days with the preacher struck me as unrealistic. However, the plot, characters, and setting held my attention to the end, and the writing inspired my faith, with Cadi and Fagan proved worthy as heroine and hero,
This book is fantastic and beautifully captures the gospel!
Told you it’s been a month, and I’m not super with book names).
There were mountains and they felt very authentic.Story idea.
A complex, mature plot centering around an intriguing seed.Stuff I didn’t like.This book was dark, people!
Then there was also violence scattered through the book.The second half of the book.
I was expecting a drastic change between the melodramatic first half and the second since she gets saved in the middle.
The second half had some places that were out of tone with the rest of the story.
I suggest ages 16+ up since it was at a dark story.
This story grabs you and doesn't let go.
When I wasn't reading, I was thinking about it.
Thinking about the characters and their struggles and how they mirrored or contrasted mine.
Thinking about the scenery described in perfect detail, not too much, not too little.But, moving on.
I really enjoyed how each person had their own story.
"Each of us is without excuse." She pulled in Scripture without it feeling forced and unnatural.My only beef with this book is the ending.
That's forgivable, though.If you're reading this, you should read this book.
I'll be honest, the beginning of this book was quite slow for me, and that's why it took so long for me to read it. But yesterday, I got past the halfway mark and couldn't stop reading! It was so good! I loved how everything ended. Great book
A twisting tale of good and evil, set in the Appalachians of the 19th century. Well-written and entertaining.
What a great story......started slow but it picked up and what a great story! Would recommend!
Loved the Appalachian setting, the relationship between girl and grandmother....good from beginning to end.
At her grandmothers funeral the sin eater comes and everyone turns away from him but Cadi steals a look and makes eye contact with him.
At Eldas house Gervase helps her feel better and cadi asks her questions about the sin eater but the healer stops her.
On the way home a storm is coming and cadi sees the sin eater lit up by the thunder.
Cadi goes to Miz eldas house to find out about the sin eater.
Elda says that Blatsung came to see when cadi would come back and talk to the sin eater.
This has been my favorite novel of all time since I read it in high school.
I also hadn't read it since high school, so I thought it was past due for a reread.Set in 1850s Appalachia, this book is about an isolated community of Scottish immigrants who share land, traditions, and a terrible secret from the past.
But that's the real world we live in too.And it's against this backdrop that the glory of the gospel shines brightest.After reading it a second time, I still claim this as my favorite novel.
Excellent!
From broken relationships, guilt, pride and murder, we were able to see how these people suffered in a very descriptive and heart moving story.
This is Christian ligature so I will say that prior to reading this book I feel that the individual should have some understanding of the miracles Jesus does/did and an understanding of what the Holy Spirit is.
Yes both the prophet and the children were new believers and yes they were speaking scriptures word for word right after they accepted Jesus as their Lord and savior but the book made it crystal clear that it was the Holy Spirit speaking through them.
