https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1410532.From_Ritual_to_Romance
Complete rot. Gains an extra star simply for the great works of Modernism it engendered. Riddled with assumptions, huge leaps of "logic" and desperate attempts to make evidence fit her thesis.
The idea that the whole grail legend hearkens back to something more primitive and connected with the earth makes sense to me, in exactly the way it seems obvious to me that both Peredur and Perceval are springboard tellings of an older story.I like rereading my marginalia in this book; obviously over the years I've had more than one reason for reading it, and the notes appear in layers.
I must admit that, reading it this time, I am pretty sure Miss Weston is not going to tell me anything new.It's comfort reading, in the way neat gin might be comfort food if you were a serious alcoholic and didn't mind the burn on the way down.
I doubt that anyone who has read this book since 1922 has read it for any other reason than its mention by T.
S. Eliot in his notes to "The Waste Land" as one of the two books (along with Frazier's Golden Bough) which most inspired that great poem.
With that said, it is a surprisingly good read in its own right.
While a great deal of the scholarship is outdated and therefore cannot be trusted as an accurate description of the history of the ideas and stories discussed, the story that Weston tells and her ideas regarding its plausible historical development is interesting enough to possess a certain beauty that renders it fascinating to read even if ultimately untrue in the academic sense of the word.
Weston examines textual sources and folk practices from a variety of cultures, arguing that the Arthurian legend of the Grail is a continuation of pre-Christian Vegetation rituals.
Gonzo Grail interpretation but lots of fun...
Here are just a few of the subjects in From Ritual to Romance which I first found in Fixed Stars Govern A Life: Decoding Sylvia Plath: the Hindu Rig-Veda, the importance of Waste-Land motif from Arthurian legend, The Holy Grail as Aryan tradition (think of Plath’s poetic Nazism here), the festival of Soma, the symbol of the root, nature cults, creation stories, Greek mythology, Nature cults, Babylonians, Celts, modern parallels with myth, African tribes and culture, The Medicine Man, the elements, The Fisher King, Fish as a Life symbol across Asian religions, the Leviathan, Jewish and Christian symbolism, Irish Finn mythology, fish as the goddess Venus, the danger of speaking of mystical secrets, exoteric and esoteric elements, Neo-Platonism, Mithraism, Life Principle and the Logos, Vegetation cults as vehicles of high spiritual teaching, Christian legend, folk-tales, women not admitted to initiation, and The Templars (Freemasons).I especially found the whole Aryan aspect fascinating.
Ms. Weston takes an in-depth look into the history behind grail quest literature, looking in part at some of the Arthurian legends, folk-lore, mythology, and the history and alterations of religion.While having read at least some medieval literature does help put a lot of what Weston says into clearer context, such readings aren't really necessary to understand the ideas and arguments she puts forth.
I was as enthralled with Weston's book as I usually am by Arthurian legend and other medieval works (and trust me -- I LOVE such writings!).I would absolutely recommend this book to any and all readers who enjoy history, culture, religion, religious history, paganism, Christianity, Judaism, medieval literature, King Arthur and his Knights of the Round Table, Grail Quests, mythology, folk-lore, and the like.
The book includes an index that any researcher could find useful.Although well written, as some readers have commented on different reviews, the book uses a style of English that is no longer common on either side of the Atlantic.
Other readers commented on Weston’s frequent use of Latin and French words without any translation.
I would assume that when she wrote this book, many English-speaking book lovers could also read French and Latin, and possibly Ancient Greek and German, without much difficulty.
Notwithstanding the limitations that Weston’s style may present to today’s audience, I would stress that this little book is a jewel for the serious researcher.
In a blink-and-you'll-miss-it shot in his Apocalypse Now, Francis Ford Coppola shows a copy of Weston's From Ritual to Romance next to a copy of Frazer's The Golden Bough. If you know something of the latter, that will tell you a lot about the former. Weston takes a Frazerian approach to the Grail romances (Chrétien de Troyes's Perceval, Robert de Boron's Joseph of Arimathea et. al.), tracing their symbolism to primitive fertility rituals. The style is scholarly, and dense with references to mummers, sword dancers, the Tarot, and Greek and other mythologies.
This book is basically useless when it comes to explaining T.S. Eliot, but what isn't?
It is also practically useless as a book of criticism on the Grail legends.
However, it is a really great book on the occult.
Much of her information about then-modern occult practice came from Yeats, which is hilarious, and her research into the topic is really great.
Most other writers on the subject from her era are always saying things like, "If you know what I mean then you know what I mean," and otherwise being spooky and secretive.
Not Weston.
Having already read Wolfram, Th Malory and Chretian, I was ready for some analysis. This book had been recommended by a popular professor at Grinnell College and was being much read about campus (along with, it might be added, Graves' The White Goddess). Weston did a great job in tying together the various grail legends into a coherant scheme related to a contemporary theory of the development of religious belief out of ritual practice. I thoroughly enjoyed this book and have recommended it to others throughout the years since reading it.
Weston's argument is mostly based on similarities between elements of the Grail story and known features of ancient nature religions and various occult traditions.
How these ideas were passed on from prehistory to medieval times is less clear.'The King, though regarded with reverence, must not be allowed to become old or feeble, lest, with the diminishing vigour of the ruler, the cattle should sicken, and fail to bear increase, the crops should rot in the field and men die in ever growing numbers.
I didn't actually finish this book, I got halfway through and no longer needed it for the paper I was writing.
This book is pretty weird.
Like most people, I read this book in a vain attempt to understand The Waste Land.
As I said, this book is weird.
The edition I got through Gutenberg had the original version with untranslated French and German, which was not helpful at all.
Still, she doesn't make it easy to identify her sources, like telling what specific story she mentions.Unless you're into The Waste Land or have some kind of weird Arthurian theory fetish, I don't really recommend this book.
If not very, you may enjoy this book for what it contains, myths and legends and references to ancient rituals.
Being more interested in Tammuz than I am in Grail Knights, I find her theory - that the Maimed King is a type of Tammuz and the weeping women of the Grail stories are the equivalent of the weeping women mourners of ancient Palestine - makes the Grail legends more accessible.
I know this story!
Her other theories may not hold water, but who cares?
Make the sign of the cross, open this book and let the phallic demons and the armed youth dance!
Weston's From Ritual to Romance is an excellent read for cultural anthropologists, folklorists, psychologists and sociologists interested in the transmission of ideas through cultures (talk about memes! Talk about the childhood game of telephone (which nobody plays any more, I'm sure)!). It's a deep read that requires fluency in several languages to appreciate fully and it's still worth a read if all you can manage is English. Fantasy writers interested in the Grail stories, King Arthur stories, the origins of medieval romance, et cetera, will also find this a good read, I'm sure.
Sort of a follow up to Eliot's The Waste Land
Kind of terrible to read, if you aren't a scholar. It's really cute how there's large blocks of untranslated ancient languages.
If the base upon which FROM RITUAL TO ROMANCE is built, i.e. Fraser's theories, is disproven, Weston's thesis comes tumbling down like a house of cards.FROM RITUAL TO ROMANCE probably reminds in print because T.S. Eliot, in the footnotes to his great poem "The Waste Land", claimed that the book was a key inspiration for that crucial event in 20th-century literature.
Thus, any fan of Eliot searching for illumination on "The Waste Land" in FROM RITUAL TO ROMANCE would come away with less than if he had just read any of the extant biographies of Eliot (and his mentally-ill wife of that time, Vivien).So, FROM RITUAL TO ROMANCE does not help one to understand either the anthropological source of the King Arthur mythos (which probably doesn't go back very far anyway, says modern archaeology), or Eliot's "The Waste Land".
The ending was far better than the rest. I just simply love when the root of everything is Wales.
I learned about this book from the unlikeliest source- my biggest idol, singer/songwriter Paddy McAloon, recommended this book to his friend journalist Stuart Maconie, and the latter mentioned this in a book of his.
You're welcome) I was intrigued because it was a) a book about the origins of Grail mythology, which I love and have read a lot about, and b) it was supposed to have inspired, among other things TS Eliot's "The Waste Land" (the reason why McAloon read it- he, like me, loves this poem).When I laid my hands on the book (easy, it's free on Gutenberg) I was mind blown because the book also happened to include a chapter on the Tarot,and I am a professional Tarot reader.
Possibly the best thing that finally caving in to acquiring a smartphone in the year 2015 has enabled me to do to date is downloading this book off Project Gutenberg and reading it on the subway.
After all it is a big influence on two of my early influences, namely The Waste Land and The Winter Prince, so it is great to finally read it and put a few more pieces together.
I am particularly fond of the idea of the suits of the Tarot being the same as the symbols in the Grail legend.
If you're interested in reading this book, it's unquestionably because you've been intrigued by Eliot.
In short, this book is an attempt to show that the oldest Grail legends (Romances) were probably written by a guy who intentionally hid the Rituals of pre-Chrsitian cults in them.
The author frequently quotes in untranslated German and French, including in any places where the text looks like it should be interesting.
What is best about this book is that its vapidity contains the remains of such strong originals that a real poet could accrue some real mythical foundations for a great poem in here.
The forward basically invalidates the arguments put forth by Weston, which makes this a historical curiosity. It's only going to be helpful for scholars looking to see the historical stepping stones in our understanding of the Grail romances. Since this is a scholarly text, it isn't suitable for people looking to learn about the Grail, either, as Weston assumes you know the basics already.
Highly academicIf you can really get into appreciating academic argument you may like this as much as I did -- and you see I only gave it three stars.
I have often seen this and appreciate the work she offers, if only she would not leave so antiquities in French and German as if to validate her credentials by her knowledge of language rather than real thought.
Don't tell me how good you are, show me what you know.
Still a lot of good research in spite of being pompous.
One of the issues that have plagued any attempt to understand the grail legend (until recently) has been the diverse and often opposed interpretations of the Holy Grail. Miss Weston had the intriguing idea that the reason for it was that local rituals from throughout Europe had been interposed into the key scenes. Her methodology cannot stand up to modern standards meaning her conclusions are not to be taken seriously. However, it was at the time the first real attempt to interpret the Holy Grail as other than a strictly Christian object, and for that it is a landmark book.
Libro doppiamente famoso: è fra le fonti di ispirazione (dichiarate) di T.S. Eliot per la Terra desolata e compare, insieme al Ramo d’oro di Frazer, fra i “livres de chevet” di Kurtz in Apocalypse Now.Al di là di questo, mi pare espressione della tendenza a rileggere la storia (e i suoi frutti: le storie) come opaca, smorta, confusa scoria di un mitico passato di radiosa pienezza ecc. “Cose” fin troppo sentite (e che mi inquietano sempre un po’).
I read this mostly because Eliot cited it in his notes to The Waste Land; I gather the scholarship is specious. It's certainly full of leaps of logic based on analogies: she says things like, "Given the similarities between the two stories, this is very likely." So you have to give her credit for the courage of her convictions. And it did make me want to go back and read some of the legends in question, so props to her for that. Otherwise, spare yourself or read The Golden Bough.
Not actually very good, either as scholarship or as literature. Important mostly because, at the time that T. S. Eliot was writing "The Waste Land," her work was among the most recent and relevant available. He drew inspiration from reading this monograph.In its time period, this monogram probably was excellent. But it's another of those really great examples of scholarship that relies on methods and theories that are now recognized as erroneous.
In meiner Studienzeit hat mich das mal (als Bibliotheksbuch) ziemlich begeistert, aber ich befürchte, dass ich es wohl doch nur passagenweise gelesen haben muss, denn die Zweitlektüre war jetzt doch reichlich schwerverdaulich. Außerdem waren in meiner Ausgabe die deutschen Zitate ohne Umlaute und auch sonst vermutlcih von jemandem abgeschrieben (oder gescannt), der keine Ahnung hatte
I really liked this book. If you are interested in the old european mythologi and rituals, you should give a chance to this book. Maybe is not a masterpiece, but it is surerly an interesting point of view on this matters.
