https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/15907.Mrs_Miniver
Mrs. Miniver did have something rather excellent to say on marriages and social life.
For men knew their place too, out in the world bringing home money to give his wife a clothing allowance and the satisfaction of knowing she would always be respected as his wife, and always be known as Mrs. Clem Miniver (and never Caroline Miniver, only divorcees - horror of horrors - would be known by their own first name).What elevates this book is the writing.
I like reading books just because of the writing sometimes, and this writing elevates the rather awfully smug Mrs. Miniver and her stories into an enjoyable read.
Miniver was beginning to feel more than a little weary of exchanging ideas (especially political ones) and of hearing other people exchange theirs.
It's all very well, she reflected, when the ideas have had time to flower, or at least to bud, so that we can pick them judiciously, present them with a bow, and watch them unfold in the warmth of each other's understanding: but there is far too much nowadays of pulling up the wretched little things just to see how they are growing.
(view spoiler)[For example, in the book, the oldest son, Vin, doesn’t marry.
In the movie, the young ingénue, Carol, marries Vin and while he is off fighting in the war, it is she who is killed in a bombing raid.
This ironic twist at the very end of the movie always made me wonder if we weren’t supposed to think of Carol—and not the mother—as “the” Mrs. Miniver of the title.
From marriage, to gas masks, trips to Scotland, Hampstead Heath or the dentist, Mrs. Miniver provides a glimpse of a bygone age and world.
I just finished reading two very intense and emotional books back to back, and needed something to read that was calming and undemanding.
"She reflected once more how much of the fun of parenthood lay in watching the children remake, with delighted wonder, one's own discoveries." "She's got fatty degeneration of the soul".So, yes, I got my long conversation with a friend, even if it was separated by 77 years.
It was made into a highly successful film in 1942, and won several Oscars, including Best Picture and Best Actress for Greer Garson, but it was adapted by Hollywood into a WWII drama that bore little resemblance to the book.
She knows what she has is special; she's grateful for it - home and health, family and loving husband, a secure place in society which is not questioned - but she also knows what she might so quickly lose and as a result, appreciates things all the more.This novel is actually a series of essays, written over time, concerning small events in this woman's life, with her three children and husband, assorted servants, nannies, etc.
The snobbish woman answers, 'into the camps.'There's a delight Mrs. Miniver has with ordinary things, with objects and trees, the countryside, the streets of the city, the toys her children own or the games they make up and play.
*sigh* I gave up. This is one of those rare situations in which I find myself liking the movie more than the book.
My copy of Mrs Miniver is an original wartime edition of this famous little book, which began life as a puff-piece in The Times but when war came the story grew to become the voice of stoic Britain.
It feels like the very book that my mother would surely have read.The Minivers are from the ‘professional classes’.
While naively believing that she understands what life is like for the Other, Mrs Miniver hasn’t forgotten their financial ups-and-downs when they were too hard-up to afford a taxi home after dinner out.
The family is much the same in the book, with the notable exception of oldest son Vin, who is not college-age but in his early teens.The stories are beautiful little vignettes of daily life, each capturing through Mrs. Miniver's observant eyes a day, an incident, a moment, in writing that can be savored as she savors each experience.
A passage in the final chapter, which is written in the form of a letter, particularly appealed to me as a student of history, as Mrs. Miniver muses over what it would be like to have ways of exactly recalling people's feelings and attitudes during momentous events.
Mrs. Miniver musings include trying to put words to the sound that her windshield wipers make and mustering up false urgency to Christmas shop early.
She even contemplates the personalities of the people who go in with the swing of a swinging door vs those who push against the flow to try to enter faster.
Somehow when I write them down they just don’t sound as brilliant but I can pick up the book now, turn to any page and find a little gem.Meanwhile, the war is brewing and Mrs Miniver takes her children to be fitted for gas masks.
There is a little vignette in each chapter, (due to the fact that it was originally published in instalments) and in her introduction Grove 'lets slip' the decision that Mrs Miniver made in a particular situation or her thoughts on a subject.
Also in the stories we are tantalised by not knowing what Mrs Miniver's Christian name is.
Grove points out in her introduction where the surname comes from and that the name ****** is 'teasingly withheld until almost the end of the book.' Obviously not if you read the introduction!Winston Churchill exclaimed that Mrs Miniver had done more for the Allied cause than a flotilla of battleships.
I love popping into a person's life through a book and then popping back out.
Mrs. Miniver lives a middle class life in England (Kent is where her second home is) with her husband and three children right before World War 11 breaks out.
The reader gets to see and understand how Mrs. Miniver (as she is called throughout most of the book) thinks and deals with her pretty much typical life.
Don't expect action, adventure, thrills or chills in this one.
But do expect to be privy to how a seemingly average woman of her time makes sense of the world around her.
I really can't believe I haven't read this book before now. What was I thinking? For me, this was a little piece of book-heaven. Every new vignette hit home for me in a different way. Chapter one, was probably my favorite. It perfectly expressed my love of fall for me. I even copied it entire into my quotes journal. In another lifetime, I could've been Mrs. Miniver. Loved it!
3.5 This series of short sketches of an upper class British family just before WWII has period charm, and is a quick read. I haven’t seen the movie, but will look for it now.
Anticipation:3- The movie is a guilty pleasure, but the book?
Hey, here's a 1942 edition for 6.50.
Enjoyment:5- Oh my god, it's Lydia Davis meets Downton Abbey-- the latter stole liberally from the movie by the way.
No Theresa Wright (sniff) or Walter Pidgeon getting strafed and going off to Dunkirk while sounding like the most Midwestern Brits ever, but a series of vignettes chock full of passages like these.
Sure, but she's also hilarious and endearing, and makes one hell of a prescient case for the middle class.
(Okay, upper middle class--Vin goes to Eton).
Retrospect: 4--still a great discovery and a great book.
Like many others, I expect, I came to this through the Greer Garson film.
The book is a series of newspaper columns written originally as an insight into a typical (though in fact upper middle-class) wife and mother in 1930s England.
The advent of World War II brought about a different perspective to the everyday preoccupations, and the film developed this further, as the book was published only just after the war had started.Being a newspaper column there was almost an expectation for a moral summing up at the end of each chapter, but it is this that in the end makes the book quite refreshing.
I didn't expect this book to not have a real plot. Each chapter can be taken individually and don't fit to form one overarching story. I didn't love that aspect about it. I did enjoy the writing style and the characters themselves. I felt like the author was astute about making observations of daily life. Like when Mrs. Miniver thinks the windshield wiper is saying something? I have totally thought that! A sweet little book.
All this would have been fine and good, and this slender, pleasant book might well have been forgotten by the time of our century, but for one significant thing: the Second World War. It’s a matter of chance, I suppose, that Mrs Miniver appeared in the right place in the right time, but as a result these little tales of an unremarkable life struck such a resonant chord with their audience.
It’s tempting, therefore, to label these original columns as useful middle-class idiocy, but I think it would be quite unfair to conceive of them as simply propaganda.
The first half of the book was lacking for me as Mrs. Miniver and her family seemed shallow and entirely carefree in their upper middle-class, pre-war existence, worrying only about dinner plans and social calendars.
This would all change in the second half.
When rumblings of war began, even though the war is hardly mentioned in the book and the blitz is a long way off, you know something is happening in the background and having quite an effect on what Mrs. Miniver holds valuable.
It was interesting how she took this to heart and focused on the advantages that war has on people, if you can imagine.
I've never seen the movie, and I'd never heard of the book until I read a review in The Gentle Art of Domesticity.
Here are just a couple I can remember (but not quote perfectly):* One of the benefits of marriage is having someone's eye to catch at the right moment.* Being friends with a married couple is like dancing the tarantella with Siamese twins.Some critics call this book overly sentimental, and I can see where they're coming from.
But it's a book about an intelligent woman in a happy marriage, so how can it not be somewhat sentimental?
More a series of episodes (originally written as such for the Times) than a novel, Mrs. Miniver is a sensitive, beautifully written look at life in England with the threat of World War II looming. Mrs. Miniver (whose first name we don't learn until nearly the end) is quietly intelligent and observant, noting moments of humor and beauty as she deals with the travails and delights of her daily life.
A fun but informative step back to World War II with Mrs Miniver and her family as they gear up for the hostilities and amongst other things manage to visit Scotland for a wee holiday. First published as columns in The Times in 1939 I can see why they were so popular then as they're still very enjoyable now.
This is a book that I have read and reread for years. The vignettes are short and beautifully written. I loved the author's sharp observations of common events and sights - the last leaf trembling on a tree. Even with the cloud of imminent war over every sketch, Mrs. Miniver finds joy and delight in marriage and family. My copy was published in 1940 and shows it!
Delightful and surprisingly philisophical. Tales and extracts from Mrs Miniver's life as wife and mother, and such a lovable lady! The only thing I had against it-it ended right at the begining of the second world war, leaving me feeling cheated-what happens? Does everyone come home safely? What goes on?!:)
Honestly, it's a bit of a false advertisement, having a photo still from the movie on the cover of this book.
Sure, Mrs. Miniver's life is nothing like my own - a nanny, a cook, a maid, homes in London & in the countryside, nearly constant travel & vacations - but it doesn't make me angry to read about , the way some other reviewers of this book felt about her privileged lifestyle.
That's one reason I read fiction, to get insight into worlds other than my own.Even though on the surface, Mrs. Miniver is so different from modern readers, her comments about marriage, children, Christmas, shopping, calendars, parties, etc.
Not quite what I expected because most of it happens before war breaks out, but a lovely, thoughtful, witty portrayal of the last years of the 1930s in the eyes of a middle-class English young mother.
What an exquisite treasure of a read. This is a book that is as pertinent and fresh today as when it was written. In a world of reality tv and high speed internet info this is the perfect reality check. Life as it truly was meant to be lived.
delightful!
I love the movie, Mrs. Miniver, so I thought I would read the book that inspired it.
Mrs. Miniver was the creation of Jan Struther at the suggestion of Peter Fleming, then an editor of The Times in London.
The stories became so popular that many wrote to "Mrs. Miniver" assuming she was a living person.
Then there are the unusual, such as having the whole family fitted for a gas mask or taking in refugee children from London to her country home for safety.
Although written in 1940, this is definitely a worthwhile read.
Snippets of every day life in the years preceding World War II are captured in the most charming way in this little book.
Mrs. Miniver's musings on life, family, love, happiness and society all serve to underscore some basic truth that is often taken for granted, expressing them in a way that touches the reader's heart and reminds her ever so gently of how very fragile the treasures of this life can be.
I chose this book for my Book Hour on local radio (www.siar.fm), and it was a sheer delight to read aloud, especially the chapter where she makes her first flight (but I can't give too much away!).
Mrs Miniver takes us through her family life, in entertaining detail; but the cameos that form the chapters touch lightly on a context of human values and the destruction of them; they illumine, not spell out, what is important to each of us, and they show us the poetry of the moment.
In the book we find it; a coin of irreplaceable value.
