https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/12071434
Ashadh Ka Ek Din (Hindi: आषाढ का एक दिन, One Day in the season of rain) is a debut Hindi play by Mohan Rakesh in 1958. Since the month of Ashadh (beginning on 22 June and ending on 22 July) is usually the onset period of the monsoon in North India, the name can be understood to mean One day during the Monsoon. The title of the play derives from the opening line of the Sanskrit dramatist Kalidas's play Meghadūta (Sanskrit: मेघदूत literally "cloud (Megh) messenger (Doot)").The play is divided into
Another villager by the name of Vilom (also interested in Mallika) says that if Kalidas leaves for Ujjaini, he must take Mallika along.
Maillka’s love is inspiring, unquestioning, devoted, sacrificing and she ask nothing in return.Even though Kalidas marries queen Priyangumanjari, Mallika remians his only love and inspiration.
Mohan Rakesh evokes powerful imagery.Rainy day means some tragedy is about to arrive.Entry of Ambika with lightning shows terror.The fading voice of Kalidasa foot beautifully shows that Mallika and he can never unite.Sample this powerful imagery of a crying baby which shows they can never unite;Kalidas: Life is still left.
We have memorable characters like Kalidasa, Mallika, Priyangumanjari, Vilom etc all around us.
आषाढ़ का एक दिन- मोहन राकेश.आषाढ़ का महीना जाते-जाते "आषाढ़ का एक दिन" पढ़ डाला। पढ़ने का समय बड़ा अनुकूल मिला, बाहर पानी बरस रहा था, बादल घुमड़-घुमड़ कर गरज रहे थे-और बिलकुल ऐसे ही वरणन के साथ नाटक का पहला अंक शुरू होता।.मललिका(नायिका) और अमबिका( नायिका की माँ) का वारतालाप होता है, जिससे जञात होता है कि मललिका के विवाह हेतु अमबिका काफी चिंतित है,किनतु मललिका परखयात नाटककार-शिरोमणि कालिदास (नायक) से एक परकार का आतमिक-भावनातमक-सनेह रखती है। वैसे तो इस सनेह को परकट रूप से कोई नाम नही दिया गया है, लेकिन कय
आषाढ़ का एक दिन- मोहन राकेश.आषाढ़ का महीना जाते-जाते "आषाढ़ का एक दिन" पढ़ डाला। पढ़ने का समय बड़ा अनुकूल 
This book hijacked my time away from an already loaded reading shelf. Picked it when it was raining heavily, and the title felt apt. One of those instances when the book finds you :)A short play divided into three acts, about the life of a budding poet Kalidas. More so about his lover Mallika, devoting her emotions and in effect her whole life.Easy flowing dialogues, rich language, conflicting characters emotions are among the things I enjoyed most. Hope to see its enactment someday.Recommended for Hindi literature fans.
This classic three-act play by Mohan Rakesh is perhaps more aptly described as आषाढ़ के तीन दिन: because each of the three acts is set on a day of the monsoon months of aashaadh, several years apart.
Ambika, Mallika, and the man Mallika loves—a love that she equates with भावना (emotion), much to the disgust of her cynical and more worldly-wise mother—the poet Kalidas, are the three main characters of this play, with a fourth, a man named Vilom, acting as the catalyst in several instances.
'आषाढ़ का एक दिन' हिंदी के युगानतरकारी नाटककारों में से एक मोहन राकेश जी की एक कृति है। इस नाटक को हि
कहूँगी कि देखो, ये तुम्हारी नई रचना के लिए हैं। ये कोरे पृष्ठ मैंने अपने हाथों से बनाकर सिये हैं।इन पर तुम जब जो भी लिखोगे, उसमें मुझे अनुभव होगा कि मैं भी कहीं हूँ, मेरा भी कुछ है।"नाटक के संवाद बहुत शक्तिशाली बन पड़े हैं। मल्लिका की मां अम्बिका, जो कि चाहती है कि मल्लिका विवाह करके एक सुखी जीवन व्यतीत करे, कहीं न कहीं कालिदास से चिढ़ती भी है भले ही यह वैचारिक स्तर पर ही क्यों न हो। उदाहरण के लिए जब कालिदास के पास राजकवि बनने का प्रस्ताव आता है और वो ना-नुकुर करते हैं तो वह कहती है- "सम्मान प्राप्त होने सम्मान के प्रति प्रकट की गयी उदासीनता व्यक्ति के महत्व को बढ़ा देती है। तुम्हें प्रसन्न होना चाहिए कि तुम्हारा भागिनेय लोकनीति में निष्णात् है। बाद में जब कालिदास की पत्नी उसके भौतिक कष्टों को कम करने का प्रस्ताव देती है तो अम्बिका का कहना होता है- ...
I think generalising is unfair, however classical Hindi authors like Mohan Rakesh, perhaps due to the colonial nature of their surroundings when they wrote, were able to embed the similar feelings of longing, revolt, pain and anguish as were then present during the masses.
In works like these, story is not the end instead it is a tool to present the more important, prime important - characters and their multi-colored hues of their psyche.
But I think that's exactly what the author wanted in the first place - to bring about such a sense of disturbance, despair and anguish inside the reader as is felt by his characters.
इस पुसतक में हरेक दृशय इतनी सूकषमता और सरलता से बताये गए है की कोई भी वयकति थोड़ी से कलपना शकति से ऐस
इस पुस्तक में हरेक दृश्य इतनी सूक्ष्मता और सरलता से बताये गए है की कोई भी व्यक्ति थोड़ी से कल्पना शक्


Lovely. Brilliant depiction of Kalidasa's (perceived) life. Equally brilliant depiction of human nature. I will see its rendering on stage sometime (I have seen parts of it in other plays).
Time is the most powerful thing which destroys every thing in its way. awesome.
इस छोटी सी कहानी को पुरा पढने में मुझे बहुत समय लगा। कालिदास का अपने गराम को छोड एक बेहतर भविषय के ल
इस छोटी सी कहानी को पुरा पढ़ने में मुझे बहुत समय लगा। कालिदास का अपने ग्राम को छोड़ एक बेहतर भविष्य 
एक ही शबद - "बेहतरीन"***ऐतिहासिक पातरों या उससे समबनध हटा कर एकदम सीधे सीधे देखें तो -एक गरामीण कवि 
इधर प्रेमिका भावनात्मक रूप से उसी से जुडी रहती है लेकिन समय का पहिया उसे गाँव के उस साधारण युवक की पत्नी बना देता है। मनुष्य का अपने जड़ से अलग होना मुश्किल होता है। राजकवि महोदय बाद में जितनी भी कालजयी कविता लिखते हैं वो अपने सुरम्य गाँव और प्रेयसि को याद कर ही लिख पाते हैं। और एक दिन स्वर्ण पिंजरे को तोड़ उड़ते हुए गाँव आ जाते हैं। लेकिन किसी भी महान कवि या राजा के लिए क्या समय प्रतीक्षा कर सकता है !
"आषाढ़ का एक दिन" मोहन राकेश का दूसरा नाटक था जो मैंने पढ़ा.
इसके पहले "आधे अधूरे" को पढ़ और देख चुका था.
नाटक की मुखय पातर कालिदास की बचपन की परेमिका मललिका है, जिसे छोड़कर कालिदास उजजैन चला जाता है.
नाटक के तीन अंक हैं, और जैसा कि किसीने कहा, शायद "आषाढ़ के तीन दिन" जयादा उपयुकत नाम होता.
ये तीन दिन वरषों के अंतराल में एक ही घर में घटते हैं, और मललिका के इरद-गिरद घूमते हैं.
ये नाटक कई भावनाओं को छूता है, और "Romanticism vs Realism" के दवनदव को कुशलता से चितरित करता है.
मललिका और उसकी माँ अमबिका के
विलोम का पात्र खलनायक की तरह नाटक में आता है, लेकिन नाटक के ख़तम होने तक पाठक/दर्शक की काफी सहानुभूति ले चुका होता है.
अंत में कालिदास का भाषण प्रवाह को थोड़ा धीमा करता है, लेकिन विलोम के आने के साथ ही नाटक फिर से गति पकड़ता है, और ख़तम होने के बाद ही रुकता है.
आधे अधूरे की ही तरह, ये नाटक भी पढ़ने के बाद काफी समय तक दिमाग में रहता है.
लेकिन ये नाटक उस जीवन से ज्यादा जो पीछे छूट गया उस पर केंद्रित है.
Every character is uniquely brilliant, be it Mallika, the true "connoisseur of art" - from her youthful days of intense, unconditional love for the writings of Kalidasa, to the last act of the play where the atrocities committed by the world towards her have shaped her into a completely different person who, nevertheless, still carries the old self under her wing; or Kalidasa, the wandering poet who derives inspiration for his poems from Mallika; or Ambika, the ephemeral mother to Mallika...and so on.
This play is a must read/watch for an intellectual and spiritual elevation via intense drama and dialogues.
Stupendous Just one word 'Sensational'. Must read for every book lover. It's spectacular in every possible way. Truely amazing. Do read.
The most appealing aspect of this book/play to me is its realism which is extremely elusive in hindi literature.
This sets it apart from other famous works of hindi literature.
There is no villain in this play and the character close to being a villain appealed to me more than the central characters.
There are lot of allegories and symbolisms in this play.
I feel very proud of my mother tongue after reading this book.
This is one of the greatest achievements of modern hindi literature and should be cherished as such.
कितनी खूबसूरती से लिखा है इसे मोहन राकेश ने। हर संवाद से जुडाव सा महसूस होता है। इचछाएं, दवनदव और सम
कितनी खूबसूरती से लिखा है इसे मोहन राकेश ने। हर संवाद से जुड़ाव सा महसूस होता है। इच्छाएं, द्वन्द्व 
An untold story, not sure if it's true, offered me the non revered side of the"Maha" kavi Kalidas. Although the title of "Maha" is best besotted on the central character of the play, Mallika. I was left, in secret wonder, of the sacrificial nature of love as expressed through her character. Mohan Rakesh, the playwright offered a lot of room for perception and introspection. I kept visiting the dictionary for challenging words but the prose was very engaging nonetheless. FOR HEAVENS SAKE, I WANT TO READ A HAPPY ENDING NOW!!
Great Play. Whether you have performed on stage before or not you will definitely appreciate the descriptions/cues provided by Mohan Rakesh in the play that makes visualization real. A "complex relationship" window of past to our current "complex relationship"generation. Full of emotions- Be it love, finding meaning, practicality... almost anything and everything from the bucket of emotions!
The aim of the read was to improve my Hindi skills. It is a good beginning.The story is a bit cliche about noble idiocy and its negative consequences told through fictionalising and personalising the historical figure of the poet Kalidasa.As always, plays should be watched more than being read, but reading is also a good enough consolation.The book has opened up multiple strands of Hindi drama and theatre that are fun to explore.
आषाढ ke month mai ye play padhe hai...its a great feeling.
आषाढ़ ke month mai ye play padhe hai...its a great feeling.
great
Loved this.The best work I have ever read.
"Aashad Ka Ek Din" is a play that is hard to forget.
From the very beginning, it captivates your heart with its doomed love story and with the final act of the play, it completely shatters it.The play is the story of the legendary poet Kalidas and his romance with the heroine of the play Mallika.
Owing to the difficult circumstances, the lovers part only to meet in a heart wrenching finale.I read this play in my school and I am glad ISC had prescribed this and I remember every time I read it, I was moved.
Doomed romances are nothing compared to this one!Overall, a must read for every Hindi literature fan and one that should not be missed!
Set in the Gupta period, Aashadh ka ek din is a beautiful work of Hindi literature.
The writer seems to have taken creative liberties while writing this play about Kalidas and his lover Mallika.
The third and one of the most interesting characters of this play is Vilom, who has been created as a mirror image of Kalidas.
At one juncture Vilom remarks with a fair degree of scorn and sarcasm, "Who is Vilom, but an unsuccessful Kalidas." The play interestingly links many of the problems of the characters to contemporary issues of a modern man.
i lack the erudition to comment on the classic work. nevertheless can share the feelings that may run in company of such work - it has such simplicity of expression on the fundamental needs of life, the raw emotions that are evoked of jealousy, bereavement, separation, humor, unrequited love, marital dilemma, conundrum of parenting etc. It cuts through the chaff for one to reflect on the roots providing for that shade when one's weary of materialistic chase perpetually...
I've read it while sitting in a crowded railway station, it took me to a different world as if I am sitting in a drama hall alone and watching this play live. Writing is so fresh and lively. The expressions were so lovely.
"A book must be the axe to break the frozen sea within us."Yes, it is one such book.
Use of puritanical hindi. Time heals and passes.
Performed vicariously.
