https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/92417.The_Thin_Red_Line
War is, if it is anything, an insane metaphor for that lack of understanding, that true lack of connection, and to be a part of that metaphor is to be, in a way, as insane.This is a novel of many voices, each individualized and each specifically unique and amusingly detailed.
The theme of the distance between humans is there, as is the idea of many narrative voices recounting many different things but all ending in despair over our lack of ability to truly understand ourselves, the world, each other.
(A special note at the beginning of the book points out that the terrain and battles contained in the book are fictitious, but that Jones placed the imaginary battles on Guadalcanal because of the emotion the island evoked.) You meet Pfc Doll, Cpl Fife, Sgt Welsh ...
You often see things from more than one point of view - what caused someone to act like they did, or what they were trying to convey, and how it was viewed by someone else.I think that you have to just surrender yourself to the experience of the book.
As a former military man, he brings the story of war in such vivid color that you don't get from any thousand blockbusters.
Don't expect miracles, because there won't be any, only a bunch of human stories coming together loosely, only because they happened to be there at the same time, and sought meaning to their participation in madness, to try to justify the pain, the loss, and the lack of logic.
Don't expect heroes or extraordinary people, because they are all just ordinary folks who got pulled into war.One of them wrote a book.We don't know who JJ was, but I surely know who his favorite is.
I haven't read too many other books that were written around this time, but the prose style in this seems lackluster.
In the first handful of pages, for example, Jones uses the words 'unpleasant' and 'supercilious' to describe Doll at least four times each.
Unfortunately, they don't seem to come through, which seems to be a pretty forceful statement about the army's regarding men as tools and nothing more.
It's worth a read, and it seems like it's better than the 1998 Terrence Malick film, which is itself supposedly pretty good, although I haven't seen it.
See my review on From here To Eternity. I thought that this would be a let down after that wonderful book but had no issues at all. Fine book indeed. Now to try and force my self to read the final book of the trio.
I have little to no prior experience with 'war writing' (I'm not sure whether to count The Book Thief) - something like this isn't the kind of thing I'd normally read, but I'm so glad I did!I won't go into too much detail about the plot (no spoilers!), but the basic premise of the novel is that it follows a group of US troops, 'C-for-Charlie Company', and depicts their experiences during the Guadalcanal campaign in World War Two. The book goes to some pretty dark places; at times it can be very violent and unsettling, and there's a lot of profanity and sexual references.
It's the second of Jones' trilogy on the Second World War. All of the venues of the three novels were derived from his experiences; Pre-war Schofield Barracks in Oahu, the 1942-43 battles of Mount Austen, the Galloping Horse, and the Sea Horse on Guadalcanal, and in military hospitals.
Another novel outside the trilogy, "Some Come Running" has its roots in Jones' experiences in returning to his hometown after the war.There is a rather large cast of characters in this book, almost all members of C for Charley Company of 1st Battalion, 27th Inf. Reg., 25th Infantry Division.
This book provides a graphic account of war and how it alters men.I found this a tough read, it was 500 odd pages of dense / emotional writing with a slow start, but after the first chapter I was hooked by the description of men in war, and how they cope with the crazy mixture of emotions (fear / bravery / lust for glory / rage) they must face. The way that chance / luck / fate played in whether they lived or died was well conveyed. Some of the characters are brilliantly drawn.
Outstanding account of hill battle at Guadalcanal, the first step in taking back Pacific islands from the Japanese in World War 2.
The 1964 book, which was the basis of the great Terrence Malick movie in 1998, was founded on Jones' experience as a veteran of the battle.
Of his other books, From Here to Eternity was about Pearl Harbor (and made into a fine film), Whistle about recovery from injuries at Guadalcanal (one I read and can recommend), and Whistle reflects Jones' experiences returning to his home town in Illlinois after the war (a "to be read" for me).
De olhos esbugalhados por aquela visão, Fife percebeu que o homem fora atingido pela segunda vez enquanto estava a ser transportado.
Mas aquela mão submersa em sangue até ao pulso é que incomodou mais Fife, sentindo-se impelido a ir tirá-la dali e limpá-la."Constatei logo que o livro e o filme têm um abismo de diferenças, sendo igualmente geniais.
O livro leva-nos também a um Japão e EUA em plena segunda guerra mundial, mais especificamente à batalha de Guadalcanal, trava igualmente não só uma guerra entre nações, mas uma outra guerra interior, em cada soldado, bem mais complexa e profunda.
Written by the author of “From Here to Eternity,” which was about the days before Pearl Harbor on Hawaii, this book takes place on Guadalcanal. Jones manages to be inside everyone’s head, in combat and away from the fighting. His characterizations and detail are amazing. Even though it is a novel, it is obvious that Jones served in the infantry on Guadalcanal during WWII. A great book (and also a movie).
because it is beautifully shot movie, because it is direct reportage of the combat...this is like the artistic film but probably for most people it is easier to read 'realism' than to follow as 'art', maybe harder to read relative to usual page-turners but: yes i read this fast, yes the prose is more efficient than expressive, yes it tells the story of not a single character but the group of company-c-for-charlie, all dipping in and out of many characters’ minds, yes it resonates after with the unusual mix of pain and fear and strange joy and a thousand other emotions spurred by these actions, this war, those days and nights…
It is the line that separates life from death, health from injury.The Novel is an anti-war novel.
The reasons for war is actually left out.
Besides being sent by the government, he's in war for his own personal reasons.
He could prove this at home without even listing.Bell has experienced the war before and has first hand information to the effects.
It's an anti-war Novel but it made me feel like enlisting in the army.There was Bugger Stein, Welsh, Doll, Dale, Bell, Big Un, Gaff and Tall.
I saw Stein disobey Tall's order to attack.
I found that the range of characters explored by Jones meant that I didn’t have the same deep connection to a single character that I did while reading “Matterhorn” (Karl Marlantas) or “The Things They Carried” (Tim O’Brian) – both of which focus on the experiences of a single protagonist.
While some depth of character development may have been sacrificed, Jones still manages to build nuanced portraits of many characters, which affords the reader an outstanding view of how units function (and malfunction) at the Company and Battalion level – something that is sacrificed in “Matterhorn” and “The Things They Carried” which only focus on squad and platoon level groups of men.
Probably the best WWII book written by an American. Covering the arrival, fighting and drinking of C for Charlie Company during the battle of Guadalcanal. Part autobiography, Jones is in the heads of his many characters as they deal with the luck and misfortune of fighting a war. His reality is that no one matters when there are plenty of reinforcements, soldiers are just cogs in the wheel, the US Army officer typically looks for promotion and medals. At times brutal, it shows that soldering is not glorious, it is very scary, very unpredictable and very sad.
An incredible War story set in the pacific theater of WWII. Packed with action, relationships, drama and a close look at the inferno of war.This would be a good companion book to Catch 22, if one were to chart a course for literature of the second world war.
Are we heroes or are we cowards? WATCH MY VIDEO ABOUT FILMATIZED WWII BOOKS ON MY BLOGThis book took me longer than usually to read and I cant quite put my finger on why. Maybe it was density of the descriptions, the lack of dialogue or the harrowing details.At first I was confused because it was so slow - in my experience books abour active combat units are not slow. They are quick to jump straight into the action and they usually stay there. This book did not, and while it annoyed me in the b
Maybe it was density of the descriptions, the lack of dialogue or the harrowing details.At first I was confused because it was so slow - in my experience books abour active combat units are not slow.
They are quick to jump straight into the action and they usually stay there.
Because fighting in a war isn't all about combat and fighting battle after battle - there's all the time in between battles; coming back from the things you've done, knowing you must do them again, coming to grips with your own mortality.None of the guys in this book were perfect macho guys.
Goodreads Book Review: My personal take on The Thin Red LineI am a war novel enthusiast, but little do I ever read a book so intricate, complete, compelling, psychological, and informational as James Jones’s The Thin Red Line.
The characters in the novel represent the tragedies and eternal effects of war.
Not to mention that Jones did serve on Guadalcanal as the novel focuses on his experiences.
To begin, if war to you is an avoidable evil, despicable to man, and essentially unnecessary, I would still read this book.
If you do not like to read about war and its detrimental impacts, I would not recommend this novel.
At university I had to take a course that was called "Manhood in past and present" which I didnt find very interesting because usually Im not into gender studies that much.This novel, however, really reminded me of some things our professor told us then, which were about the changes a man in combat can go through: sheer terror, bravery, dehumanization or "combat numbness", and how these things define some of our modern views of men at war. As a German I really want to understand how the machiner
At university I had to take a course that was called "Manhood in past and present" which I didn´t find very interesting because usually I´m not into gender studies that much.This novel, however, really reminded me of some things our professor told us then, which were about the changes a man in combat can go through: sheer terror, bravery, dehumanization or "combat numbness", and how these things define some of our modern views of men at war.
"We" (as in the we of Jones's dedication) have great expectations of our soldiers, not the least of which is that they do the ugly work of killing and dying in such a (sanitized) way that "they never cease to give us the pleasure, excitement and adrenal stimulation that we need" to maintain our myths of war, warfare, and heroism.
Let’s start with the names of the soldiers: Big Queen, Buck Sergeant Doll, Shorty Tall.
This book gives a reader so much to gnaw on: What is a soldier?
What makes a good one?
The tension between each soldier’s inner psyche, outer posturing, and spontaneous response to external events is what makes the characters so rich and empathetic.
Especially refreshing are moments of “happy maleness.” Despite the solitary nature of each man’s struggle, this is not a book about the isolation and alienation of the modern soldier.
I can't even figure out why, but it's definitely not the best war book I've ever read, to say the least.
I couldn't make myself like any of the characters.
They don't know anything about war, but after the first day of the fight - abracadabra!
I get it, the fight gave a real boost to their confidence - but surely going through one or two days under gunfire wouldn't really impress any of the commanders or the older soldiers?The homosexual thread seems quite out of place, forced and rather sketchy.Unexpectedly one of the worst novels I read in 2014.
Otro más, que cae.Supongo que a todo el mundo le sonarán las películas De aquí a la eternidad y La delgada línea roja, pues además debería sonarnos también que el autor de la dos novelas en que se basan es el mismo, James Jones.
Creo que es la aproximación más real a lo que pasa por la cabeza de alguien cuando se encuentra en esas situaciones extremas de combate, y también las preguntas que uno se hace cuando ha pasado lo peor y no sabe muy bien por qué está allí.
Una novela muy buena, la recomiendo.
This book is a tour de force!
Given my own experiences and conversations in the field and often afterwards the themes Jones outlines turn up time after time, often wryly in retrospect with a dash of embarrassed humour but there.
The book has an essential American flavour, and much of the internal dialogue reflects this cultural background, but the sense of helplessness, meaninglessness and the capricious nature of war comes through very strongly.
For anyone without the first hand experience it's telling for those who have it there are echoes here, some of which may not be so pleasant resurrections
My favorite World War II novel.
I'm tempted to say "sentimental favorite," if that makes any sense applied to this hard-core tale of American soldiers in Guadalcanal.
A gritty, captivating tale.Fortunately I read the book before I saw Terrence Malik's film – which is excellent, if a bit too austere and stylized.
Malik leaves out the dirt and the men are too beautiful.
In other words, it's a completely different experience, not a different version of the same.Also recommended for rough-edged entertainment: Jones's more famous From Here to Eternity – far better than its sappy bowdlerized film version.
James Jones is a talented writer with great insights and perspectives but I just could not connect with The Thin Red Line.I loved From Here To Eternity but I found The Thin Red Line to be somewhat slow and laboring.
Perhaps it was the use of fictional settings on a real island (Guadalcanal) that threw me off but I look for, and value, historical accuracy in historical novels.
Many have rated this book highly and it does have literary merit but it just didn't resonate that well with me.

This novel is awfully good.
Clearly amongst the best war novels that I have read.
I really didn't care for the movie when it came out, and after reading the book, understand why: The book is far more about the human rationalization of solidering and killing, than it is about actual events.
Internal dialogs drive the narrative, and they are much more accurate than those of (at least from the feeble understanding of human behavior I use to conjecture) other war novelists.
If you ever thought about what you would think about during combat, this is my best guess.
This is the second of James Jones's WWII trilogy.
Jones has a dense, thick writing style that I sometimes find hard to stay with.
There are a lot of characters that can mesh with one another and at times it's hard to remember who is who.
That being said it is a memorable book and I'm glad I read it.
There is a lot of time given to interpersonal relationships and the petty and personal reasons people behave the way they do, even under the stress of battle.
Glad I WASN'T there!
Ultimately unsatisfying, though a masterpiece of construction. Jones's efforts to be rigorous and accurate about war, both technically and emotionally, end up bogging down any kind of thrust to the story. If you don't want to have a thrusty story, fine, but then don't have so many goddamn characters you head-hop around to; give me a chance to work up some empathy over here!
