https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/14264.World_Light
With the mountains on one sideand rolling hills on the other,lies a boy, in a bedwithout a real mother.While the waves lap the shorewith an icy wind blowing,he looks to the lightas his mind starts growing.With pen and paper in handhe dreams of being a poet,as the years pass on bywell, wouldn't you just know it!No rags to riches tale hereonly harshness and poverty,for the poor old folk of Icelandhe would cause much controversy...The boy in question is one Olafur Karason, an unloved child, placed in the hands of the local parish in northern Iceland after being abandoned in a sack by his mother.
Halldor Laxness introduces readers to a new genre of prose, where each line is like a divine sonnet.What makes World Light so incredible is the story of pain and the beauty it brings with it. The protagonist dreams and yearns to be a poet; the consequence of being respected or shunned is immaterial to him. Through the physical and emotional torment of life, he wages on, painting each moment with beautiful rhymes.Halldor Laxness definitely knows how to render pain a charm that makes his readers long for it.
Reading Laxness feels like sitting in front of a blazing fire with wool socks, watching a terrifying blizzard from the single-plane windows of your house which may or may not stand up to the elements (but you hope that it does, so that you don't freeze to death, and can read all of his other novels when you're finished with one).
Those words are still avoiding me, so I'll just give up and tell you to read this book if you like books that have the power to change the way you think about life.Laxness was a god among men, and these two books are incredibly inspired.
When I run out of the Laxness works that are available in English, I will have to learn Icelandic.
World Light is a mammoth novel, but once you start it you wouldn't want it any other way.
The other characters who impact his life are well done also, living lives of repression and duty who tend to sneak when no one's looking to hear Olafur's poetry and see the world through his perspective.
This is a dense, exquisite book that is every bit as potent as his other masterwork, "Independent People." It'll make you wish more of his work was in print.
You'll never look at a sunbeam on the ceiling the same way again.

This novel is SO bizarre and requires patience but two months later I'm still thinking about it. If you're new to Laxness, I recommended reading Independent People first. But my god, the man can write. Every character gets in my head and stays there--permanently. I was inspired to write this review after scanning the last ten books I've read and realizing that this is one my mind keeps returning to. Unlike Wolf Hall, for example, which was a great read, but one I haven't thought about once since I finished it. Ah, Laxness. The love affair continues.
To read Icelandic literature means visiting the work of Laxness, considered to be their greatest writer and the winner of the Nobel Prize for literature in 1955.
World light is the story of a young, feeble, unloved, poor, and abandoned boy who despite his circumstances gains an insight into the world of poetry and beauty.
For me, and I am open to debate on this, I see a man can pursue his vision of truth and beauty regardless of his circumstances in life.
If you only read one book by Laxness though, Independent People is considered to be his best
This is a novel about truth, beauty and art, to put it simply.
Ólafur is a poet (or at least he aspires to be one, and he never really does anything else), fascinated from an early age by writing and literature, and finding a greater truth in a supernatural world rather than his actual mundane existence.
Sporadically he manages to free himself through bursts of inspiration in which he experiences true beauty, only to be repeatedly dragged back down into the mire of reality.
For me a farewell, and glimmering recollection of Iceland. But more than that; a mirror. "Every transgression is a game, every grief easy to bear compared with having discovered beauty; it was at once the crime that could never be atoned, and the hurt that could never be assuaged, the tear that could never be dried."
En ook even verbluffend vreemd: Laxness schotelt ons een vierdelig levensverhaal voor van een fictieve dichter, wisselt daarin ongehoord intense lyriek af met hilarische humor, combineert soms in een enkele zin tot op het bot schrijnende tragiek met Monthy Python-achtige absurdistische slapstick, giet dat alles in een plot die mij door zijn volkomen dolzinnige verloop voortdurend verraste, en zo ontroerde en amuseerde hij mij 800 (!) bladzijden lang enorm.
Read this introduction in this paperback edition (first!): It says a lot about this very long and mostly somber book, in which 'not a lot happens.' It is difficult to say that the main character even has 'the strength of his own convictions' because fairly baseless moods seem to affect his inner life a lot, and strongly so, when they take hold of his mind and drive his actions (which are few, and not heroic ones.
It describes the life of one man, Olaf Karason, from his austere beginnings as a baby being left in a sack by his mother with foster parents in rural Iceland, through a series of unfortunate events towards his ultimate self realisation of the creative spirit.
His relationships are full of anguish, set against a backdrop of a harsh, impoverished Icelandic society, in which only the man who makes compromises with those in power seems to succeed.
The Wilde like aphorisms on love and poetry and politics started weighing me down.
At some points it was one of those books that every line screams to be placed on the front of a quote card for someone like my fiancée to place upon her wall and ponder countless times.
But that aside, I loved the book.
But I loved the idea of a poet, a poet who has never published a single word, sacrificing his life in trying find and define (through the failure that language turns out to be most to the time) beauty.
Ένα εξαιρετικό βιβλιο που σε μεταφέρει στα βάθη της παγωμένης Ισλανδίας.
Ήρωας ένας νεαρός ποιητής ο οποίος απο μικρός ζει ο,τι χειρότερο μπορεί να ζήσει ένα παιδι ιδιαίτερα στο αφιλόξενο περιβάλλον της Ισλανδίας.
Εγκατάλειψη, φτώχεια και διαμονή σε μια οικογένεια που τον μεταχειρίζεται σαν σκλάβο ενώ η ενασχόλησή του με την ποιητική τέχνη θεωρείται κάτι σαν αρρώστια.
Ο ποιητής καταφέρνει να φύγει απο εκεί και να ξεκινήσει μια νέα ζωή σε ένα μέρος που αρχικά φαίνεται φιλόξενο.
Νέες κακουχίες, ψεύτικες υποσχέσεις απο ανθρώπους που προσφέρθηκαν να βοηθήσουν και ανθρώπινες σχέσεις στα όρια του απάνθρωπου, συνθέτουν ένα μαγευτικό και ιδιαίτερα κατατοπιστικό για την Ισλανδία έργο.
This book's protagonist reminds me of a combination of Joyce's Stephen Dedalus and Voltaire's Candide. Enjoyable, and at times beautiful, this book really struck a chord with me. Certainly my experience was enhanced by reading this while I was in Iceland, but I would have enjoyed it even with little knowledge of Iceland. Outstanding book that reads like Joyce and Voltaire combined with Iceland as its setting.
William T. Vollman praised Halldor Laxness in an interview and inspired me to read World Light. I haven't enjoyed reading a book so much since reading Don Quixote almost 30 years ago. World Light is tender, tragic, sad, hilarious, humane.
I believe this is the best book I have ever read. What a joy to read, I reread many pages just for enjoyment, and laughed out loud a lot.
"Soon the sun of the day of resurrection will shine on the bright paths where she awaits her poet.And beauty shall reign alone."
a long story written like poetry. A beautiful story.
The writing at these moments is both haunting and sublime.
This author knew how to write about such with a poet's heart and soul.
There are so many places where this incredible writing of Laxness is quotable, too many to type, so I will quote just one:“But whoever thinks that beauty is something he can enjoy exclusively for himself just by abandoning other people and closing his eyes to the human life of which he is part—he is not the friend of beauty.
The world of Laxness is one of ambiguity.
Sex, the meaning of religion, the relevance of ancient spirits, money, the value of life are all questioned in a book which is hard to review as Laxness is of an intellect well above mine.Life in Iceland is tough enough where the poor are extremely poor and the rich are only a better off - they are just better at bluffing.
Attempts to obtain better working conditions fail.
Attempts at new industry fail.
Subsistence farming at least means survival.
The poet endures great sadness and injustice, with moments of transcendence, living to write (Laxness allows us to see the poet's distancing from the world as simultaneously noble and self-serving; the poet isn't above slightly comic self-pity at times, and he has an antipathy for work).
Laxness has a great way with conversation, almost Shakespearean in its balance of metaphysical profundity with wry humor as in: "I have a strange suspicion that I base on dreams," said the poet.
He saw beauty in nature and had a bland goodwill to all, including those least worthy of it, yet was quite oblivious of the need to support his family in any practical way.
Then there is the wonderful humour and irony throughout, a counterfoil to all the misery: "Finally the bank had made it clear that it had exhausted its Christian forebearance, which is such a hallmark of these institutions..." I am so glad that I read this after about five other Laxness books, for I may not have been so keen to persist with one of the greatest writers I have encountered.
I didn't immensely enjoy Independent People when I read it, but it's taken firm root in my memory.
I like that I read it, even if I didn't totally dig it while I was mid-page.
Remembering Independent People fondly, I decided to try World Light.
Time will tell, but my first impression is that Independent People is a stronger exploration of many of the same ideas.
If Independent People is about politics and economics, then this is its political- and art-focused accompaniment.
If you read only one Halldór Laxness novel, start with Independent People.
A beautiful comic and tragic tale of the life of an Icelandic orphan who's love of poetry both saves him and renders him forever an outsider to his small community.
Long and sometimes slow, despite the fact I basically loved it, it was still a bit of a slog.
I'd suggest you save this one for later, when you've grown to love his unique voice and characters.
It's well worth the effort, but it is an effort, and a story of a life that unfolds slowly in a small world.
Strange... As the introduction says. Following the life of the poet called Olafur Karason, in its different stages, the book opens up different views and stages of Iceland too. And never in another book, one feels this much culture shock. Karason's life is presented with all its clashing ingredients: endurance, sainthood but human frailty, love, philosophy, pride, nationalism, socialism, physical and spiritual needs, women and men, friendship... And Laxness writes with a certain level of cynicism that makes this book out of the ordinary. Yes, strange is the best word to describe it.
World Light meanders and drags on structurally and therefore pales a bit when compared to Laxness' masterpiece, Independent People, yet select moments of the author's sensitivity and impeccable prose will stand out for the reader in their poignant, if morally confounded, treatment of the human condition. In particular, World Light features one of the most outstanding break-up scenes ever written--funny, touching, and absurd all at once, as all break-ups tend to go. Compare World Light's conflict and themes to Hamsun's Hunger, Joyce's Portrait, and any number of O'Connor/Faulkner stories.
Interesting book - Halldór Laxness is never a very easy read, though always enjoyable, nevertheless. Many of the poems within the story have been beautifully set to music (in Icelandic) by contemporary Icelandic composers.It is a good idea to have some idea of the political and social history of Iceland before embarking on reading Laxness' books, as so much of his work is satire based on these very issues and the people who found themselves tangled up in the ramifications of the times.
Between exquisite wretchedness at the beginning and a short sweet fade at the end, this is definitely a funny book–especially the seance scene, Petur Dhrihross, Olafur clueless in Reykjavik, and great minor characters. Ljosvikingur is certainly not a likable character, but you never know what is going to come out of his mouth. All Laxness needs to be translated!
