https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/184644.Baking
Then, I decided I needed to write a review essay, then I made some notes, then this project-- blown out of proportion-- fell into the abyss.So, now, let me declare quickly, simply, perhaps anecdotally, what I find so appealing about Dorie.1) She's a great writer:"She stopped next to me for a second, asked if I was new and said, 'How chic-- a thin pastry chef.'" [This line echoes through my mind from time to time.]"I lost my job because of improvising on this cake, but I got to keep the recipe-- a trade-off I now consider ample."2) She's a thoughtful crafter of recipes:"Don't be tempted to increase the amount of walnuts in the topping--scarcity makes them even more delightful.""Just keep in mind that the cookie layer is really a shortbread and, like all shortbread doughs, the less you work it once the flour is added, the more appealingly crumbly the texture will be."3) Every recipe includes a sidebar with "Serving" and "Storing" blurbs.
I got this book for Christmas- and it's fantastic! I've been baking with Dorie's recipes for about six months now, and she hasn't steered me wrong yet. It's a great baking book in that it is full of basics and how-to's, but also has it's fair share of beautiful, complex recipes. She has a knack for coming up with techniques that make difficult things shockingly simple. She's a talented author, writing Julia Child's Baking with Juila, among others. Plus, it has great photos. And I'm a sucker for photos.
This is an amazing book. The quality of the recipes really stands out and the author's detail in explaining the process of baking is insightful and informative. The photographs are also astounding. I was not suprised to learn that she once worked with Julia Child. I consider this one of my best baking investments.
This is such a handy book to have around--these recipes are great. So far, I've made:-fruit tart-linzer cookies-honey nut brownies-pie crusts (great essential recipe)-fruit tarts-lots more, this book is a monster!
Amazing cookbook! I sold all my other baking cookbooks (Martha Stewarts was terrible) and this is my only one now. I love the recipes and the way she writes. If you are a fan of this group you should join our Tuesdays with Dorie blog group: www.tuesdayswithdorie.wordpress.com
It also covers a broad range of recipes, hitting virtually every major type of baking, including pastry (pies, tarts, shells), cookies (drop, roll, sheet), cakes, yeast breads, and quick breads (muffins, biscuits, scones, fruit and vegetable breads) and cooked sweets (puddings, flans, custards).
On the other hand, there are plenty of major standards such as buttermilk biscuits, blueberry muffins, cheesecakes, scones, banana bread, chocolate cake, apple pie, and lemon meringue pie.Looking at two of the most basic recipes in the book, buttermilk biscuits and pastry dough (pate frisee), I find Ms. Greenspan is a bit different from my usual recipes, but entirely on the side of the angels in her insisting on butter and cold, cold, cold technique.
I didn't know that Katharine Hepburn was well-known for her brownie recipe.
In her tribute to the actress, Ms. Henderson wrote, "I'll always be grateful to Miss Hepburn for making me stick it out at Bryn Mawr and for giving me these rules to live by: 1.
I thought it was too fancy, meaning fussy recipes.
The recipes are both basic and challenging.
I'll update my review after I've baked something.Ah, good "Pound Cake Pointers."Luckily I'm going to buy this because my library copy has missing pages.
What kind of library patrons would do such a thing?
I noticed a pattern, as I read the ingredients- I'd be thinking, "Yes, this sounds good, mmhmmm, yep, yep, okay, what the hell?
NO." And possibly if I'd made any of them, they would be delicious.
But I'm not willing to try- of all the recipes in the book, I marked just 3 as possible, and have already identified changes I'd make before baking them!
So I think that Greenspan and I are deeply incompatible in the kitchen and this book, while easy to understand, fun to read and lushly photographed, just isn't for me.
The best cheesecake recipe ever! I've made over 1/2 of the recipes in the book, and they work! Don't subsitute ingredients though, Dorie gives plenty of substitution options for playing around. They're not low fat recipes, but these are standards that will always work. I highly recommend the cookie recipes as well. This is definitely a desserts baking book, it has some sugary breakfast foods, fantastic cookies and desserts, but no yeast breads.
This is a cookbook you can read! I just made her blueberry pie recipe and OH MY GOD the womanis a muse of absolute pleasure. This cookbook is almost a cooking class. There are pagesof her thoughts and intentions for each recipe andshe is a great advocate of enjoying the entire process of crafting the deserts you choose to indulge in...as you read the short essays attached to each recipe, you realize how do-able this really is. I highly recommend finding a copy for your shelf.
It does have 472 pages of recipes as well as a 23 page glossary of terms.Apart from that, it is a good basic+ baking book, with a good selection of recipes and good explanations.I did not copy down ANY of the recipes included, though, that looked good enough to replace my own favourites.
Also, many were higher in fat content than the ones I prefer - I use recipes with 1/4 cup oil or margarine per 12 muffins, not the double that or more in Dorie's recipes - and I don't generally substitute applesauce for fat that would reduce that level.The comment inside the back cover states that Dorie 'bakes at home nearly every day'.
The recipes are easy to follow and I enjoy reading the stories that go along with them - there's such a sense of history and it's nice to read the author's reasons for including certain recipes.
I haven't tried all of the recipes - far from it, but the ones that I've made have been SO good!
There are so many options including creative variations on standard recipes, great pictures, suggestions for dressing recipes up or down according to your specific needs.
I highly recommend this cookbook to anyone who enjoys baking and likes to know more about the recipes than just the ingredients and steps.
Dorie Greenspan's breadth of knowledge and skill at making it accessible to the everyday cook/baker is impressive.This book works equally well for the novice and the experienced home baker. I know, because I used it to help a rookie friend hosting her first dinner party. Her Apple Kuchen cake was as fine as anything I could have produced and I've been baking for years.Recipes are clear, well plotted, and full of helpful details. This should be a foundation cookbook in any keen baker's collection.
Absolutely, hands down, one of the best baking books I've read. I have had it checked out of the library for about two months, begging and renewing the copy. It has lodged itself in my consciousness and is on my "I need to own" list.Dorie Greenspan gives great instructions and is incredibly generous, sharing recipes I probably would have kept under wraps. Her recipes for Chocolate Malted Whopper Drops and Molasses Spice Cookies guided me through the holiday baking season and earned me some kudos.Well worth a look-see. Try just about anything in here, it's bound to be really good.
I kept giving this as gifts and finally asked for it for Christmas. This could be every cook's general baking cookbook - Dorie creates infallible recipes (the perfect party cake is a great example) and all of these are crowd pleasers.
I'd give this one six stars if I could. Haven't made a recipe from this one yet that hasn't been a success. The BEST cheesecake ever. Reworked the caramel pumpkin tart that is now my Thanksgiving mainstay.
Amazing, intelligent, unintimidating. Made the lemon poppy seed muffins and they were wonderful. Can't wait to try more recipes! I *must* own it.
The best brownies I have ever made! Easy to follow recipes and so many variations to choose from, whether it be muffins, Madeleines, cookies. Lots of recipes to choose from, highly recommended for any keen bakers out there.
The best cheesecake recipe is in this book! A go to baking book. Dorie has decades of experience as a baker and her recipes never disappoint.
Solid dessert recipes. Made both chocolate cupcakes and cheesecake that were well received.
This is my go-to cookbook. Every recipe comes out perfectly!
Now all I want to do is bake.
I kept hearing about this book on different food blogs I follow, including Tuesdays With Dorie, and I figured I might as well check it out from the library.I loved the random tips scattered throughout the book, and in general, I liked how the the book was organized.
I think she said that the quality of chocolate chips isn’t very good, which is why she prefers to use bars, but I haven’t noticed any difference between the 2.Like I said a couple paragraphs ago, there were random tips scattered throughout the book, and those were pretty helpful.
There were a lot of good recipes, but I felt like the table of contents could have been better.
Dorie is a very talented chef and writer, and her recipes are as clearly laid out as they are delicious.
I have made dozens of the recipes and have only been disappointed once - the Brown Sugar Pecan Shortbread on page 127 and I are not on speaking terms, but the rest of the recipes are excellent enough to far outweigh one bad one.A few favorites: the chocolate chip cookies on p.
so good!), sugar topped molasses spice cookies (p.
312), chocolate-crunched caramel tart (p.
This is always one of the books I browse first whenever I feel like baking something.
My all-time favourite baking book.
If you can only afford one baking book in your life, buy this one!
So baking is fun, especially with this book, which will be used on and on again ...
The only thing sad for me: I always need to convert the American to European units, so I can never start baking right away.
The most apt way of characterizing this baking tome is quite cliche: it is like being in the kitchen with an old friend.
The book is categorized according to type of baked good, with standards like cookies, quick breads, pies, et al., but also with some surprisingly useful sections thrown in--"Apples Lots of Ways", for example.
There are quite a few recipes that I now rely on as my "standards", and it is also a book that I find myself reading through, just because!
My library program "Cookin the Books" used this cookbook for this month's (February 2016) program. We made Brownie Buttons, Blueberry Crumb Cake, Coco-Nana Bread, Low & Lush Chocolate Cheesecake, Chewy Chunky Blondies , Mini Milk Chocolate Bundt Cake, Far Breton Cake, Chocolate Gingerbread and Nutty Chocolatey Swirly Sour Cream Bundt Cake. I think the general consensus was that we enjoyed the cook book (hence the 4 star rating) but felt it could have used either editing or test cooking. I pe
We made Brownie Buttons, Blueberry Crumb Cake, Coco-Nana Bread, Low & Lush Chocolate Cheesecake, Chewy Chunky Blondies	, Mini Milk Chocolate Bundt Cake, Far Breton Cake, Chocolate Gingerbread and Nutty Chocolatey Swirly Sour Cream Bundt Cake.
I personally made the Mini Milk Chocolate Bundt cakes.
My favorite recipes of the ones presented was the Nutty Chocolatey Swirly Sour Cream Bundt Cake.
One person had made it previously without the chocolate and said it was a delicious Banana Bread.
"Baking: From My Home to Yours" is a good resource for baked dessert ideas.My recommendation for this cookbook is test cook recipes cause you might be tweaking the recipe.Bon Appetit!
In case you haven’t discovered it, the Library has a great cookbook collection.
I almost always have a cookbook or two checked out.
Most I just browse through, sometimes I copy a recipe, and occasionally a book will so inspire me I have to own it.
It’s a big beautiful book with lots of pictures (always a plus for a cookbook), divided into sections for breakfast, cookies, cakes, pies and tarts, and spoon desserts (puddings, custard, crisps, and ice creams).
Many of the recipes are very easy, others are more challenging, but I think most cooks could achieve great results.
As far as baking books go, this is a *must have* in every kitchen!
It has all the best features of a quality cookbook: a large number of recipes; beautiful, fill-color photographs; easy-to-follow recipe format; and an appropriate number of enlightening (and amusing) anecdotes from the author.
Dorie also offers intelligent tips and comments at the end of her recipes, such as what can be done ahead, and how to store the finished product and for how long.
I've baked about half the recipes in this book and literally every one of them has been a hit.
Good--get the book and start baking!
I’ve never made so many recipes from one book.
Each recipe is preceded by a description with all sorts of charming little anecdotes and stories, like a recipe for Chocolate Armagnac Cake which Dorie says got her fired from her first job in a professional kitchen.
Some of the recipes are ridiculously easy while others are more skillful and elegant.
There are cakes, pies, tarts, cupcakes, breakfast breads, yeast breads; if it’s baked, it’s in there.It’s possible that I may never bake from another source again.
Seriously.Read my full review (complete with PICTURES!) at Every Book and Cranny.
