https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/15595.The_Midwife_s_Apprentice
This children’s book was in no way kid-friendly. It was crude, abrasive, and creeped me out. It included:* transgenderism* devils and demons* witches* evil* marital affair* a couple of teenagers caught having sex* magic* superstition* child abuse* verbal abuse* profanity* breastfeeding* expletivesI cannot recommend this book to anyone, let alone the audience for which it was written.I was not compensated for my honest review.
I read Catherine Called Birdy, a Newbery Honor Book, about ten years ago, and while it was interesting it wasn’t quite captivating enough for me to want to read anything else by Karen Cushman.
Still, when The Midwife’s Apprentice showed up on Paperback Swap, I figured I’d give it a try.A Newbery Medal book, The Midwife’s Apprentice tells the story of a girl with no home, no parents, and no name.
The next morning, Jane Sharp, the village midwife, discovers the girl, who becomes the midwife’s apprentice.
The story of The Midwife's Apprentice incorporates realism without fatalism, spirit without warrior-heroics, and a truly empowered character whom readers will love.
No, go on, guess.Delivering babies in the Middle Ages was not only life-threatening and painful, it was gross.
I remember reading this as an impressionable eleven-year-old and deciding that hospitals were pretty much the greatest things ever.
And competent doctors who don't rely on the powah of Jesus to help a mother deliver her baby in a time when having a Caesarian guaranteed a slow, painful death.
One particularly shocking thing to me was the midwife's method of coaxing a baby out of the womb: she would stick her head between the mother's legs and bellow into the birth canal, "Child, come forth!
One day, in the middle of a difficult birth, the midwife gets called away and leaves Alyce in charge.
No one expected the baby to be delivered alive, but Alyce talks the mother through the process and the baby survives.After that, people start coming to Alyce more than the midwife, but when Alyce needs to call the midwife for help during a difficult birth, she sees herself as a failure and runs away, leaving the life she had built for herself.This is a great book for an older child about making your place in the world.
There will always be a part of me that wishes I was a midwife, so I totally loved this book.
The midwife also, in spite of being coarse and arrogant, is wise, and she mentions as-a-matter-of-factly that a midwife will never walk out on the job.
Thank you, gum chewing midwife named Vicki!
My point is this: Vicki's coarseness with me combined with her corny "Open your doors, Constance" command was exactly what was needed to get Fern out.
This book is supposed to be about Alyce, the midwife's apprentice, but I spent more time concentrating on why the midwife and all the adults were so coarse and so ridiculously over-prepared for everything.
A lot of historical research must have gone into this book, very well done.
I'm amazed at both how much and how little people of this era new about pregnancy and childbirth.
While the cover of this book seems to be geared toward children, I would NOT hand this over to a child who does not already know about childbirth and pregnancy in detail.
Even then, it would be wise to go over the book when they're done so they don't end up with bizarre and inaccurate ideas about having babies.
There are few books that I come across, pick up, and just check out of the library on mere whim.
Its just a simple coming of age story about one of the sweetest, quietest, and purest characters to ever touch your soul.
Its a short simple story, but its simplicity makes it so strong and powerful.
Its characters a rich and believable, its setting is described enough to where we get a general picture but can still imagine the rest for ourselves, and the story is so sweet and clear.
It makes for great light reading and is an escape from all the heavy gothic and vampire romance out today.
Saw this book listed on the audio list for the public library.
Not necessarily a child's book, but closer to a young teen.
Or for an old lady like me!Enjoying it as MY cat is curled up beside me.
At this point in the story (Chapter 7) her struggles are continuing, but she has been given some hope-chores for the mid-wife in return for scraps of bread or cheese.
Which bless her, she's sharing with a stray cat that is hovering around, and has given her someone to talk to.
Ok. Back to the story...Good little book.
Summary:Orphaned since as long as she can remember, Beetle becomes employed by the cold village midwife.
And while her payment is meager, Beetle eventually gains confidence in herself and her abilities through her work.Strengths:While it uses the language of the time, the book is surprisingly accessible -- no doubt helped by its short length (my edition was barely over 100 pages).
Despite being from a different era, Beetle's plight still can be relatable; she's someone who has believed all the nasty and mean things people have said and done to her.
3 saoBan dich tiêng viêt kha cưng va gương.
Nội dung truyên co phân nhay cam, công nhận không ngờ có sách thiếu nhi viết về nghề bà mụ luôn :p.
Không biêt la từ truyên gôc hay do ban dich ma minh thây nhân vât chinh kha la ngu đân, tinh cach cung không hay cho lăm.
Thông điêp của truyện thì khá rõ, đơn giản, dễ hiểu nhưng mình sẽ hơi ngần ngại để giới thiệu cuốn này cho một đứa con nít đọc.
Lùng mua cuốn này vì nó đoạt giải newbery mà rốt cuộc lại thấy thất vọng, nó kém hơn nhiều so với những cu
3 saoBản dịch tiếng việt khá cứng và gượng.
Không biết là từ truyện gốc hay do bản dịch mà mình thấy nhân vật chính khá là ngu đần, tính cách cũng không hay cho lắm.
Thông điệp của truyện thì khá rõ, đơn giản, dễ hiểu nhưng mình sẽ hơi ngần ngại để giới thiệu cuốn này cho một đứa con nít đọc.
Lùng mua cuốn này vì nó đoạt giải newbery mà rốt cuộc lại thấy thất vọng, nó kém hơn nhiều so với những cuốn newbery khác mình từng đọc và mong đợi.
I would have given this book a 3.5 star rating if there was one. I felt this had a slow plot to it, but I found that I liked it more as I read on. However, just when I really started to like it, it ended. The ending was not bad, but it definitely just left you there like, "What." Since it was only 117 pages or so, I think this is why. Otherwise it was not bad.
She has no proper name until one day while running errands is mistaken for someone named Alyce.
Slowly she gains confidence, but one day when left to attend one mother while Jane, the midwife, cares for another, Aylce feels helpless.
When Jane returns she runs away feeling worthless.Aylce finds work at an Inn and as an Inn Girl she meets a guest who teaches her letters and words.
One day Jane comes to the Inn inquiring about her.
Aylce believes that she has no place in the world … that she doesn’t belong … until one night travelers stop by and the woman in the group is about to give birth.
This was a great, quick historical read.
It was very real and gritty, it wasn't the glamorous side of the middle ages that we usually read about, the stories about the kings and queens and the princesses and princes.
It flowed very smoothly, telling the story with quickness without feeling rushed or choppy.The plot is interesting.
I loved learning about the midwives and what they did as well as peasant life in the middle ages.
I'm glad I'm not a peasant.This is a really great book, I would recommend it to anyone looking for a quick historical read :)
You know how people freak out about kids knowing where babies come from?
It was interesting from that perspective, but I ended up really enjoying the book.
The protagonist is a homeless, nameless ragamuffin who gets taken in by a village midwife and learns a bit about the work of bringing babies into the world.
The confidence that comes from having a place in the world starts to change the girl.
Without being too moralistic, this was a real "can do" story.
I enjoyed it so much.
I especially loved that the cat was a main character.
Sometimes your cat is your only friend!
That's real!
Excellent historical fiction for preteens! Cushman portrays the life of a homeless orphan in medieval England -- a girl so bereft of all background that she doesn't even have a name -- and how she slowly carves out an identity for herself by keeping her eyes and ears open, and by working hard at challenging assignments.
The book is alright to read. So the book is about a girl that is a midwife apprentice and she doesn’t know her name and she tries to figure it out with a loveable cat she meets. The best part of the book so far is when she figures out her name. I would say that it’s for 12 and up for the age.
This short fairy tale like story is just the right mix of bitter and sweet. I read it slowly because it is a short book and I didn't want it to end.
I learned a few things about the superstitions of Medieval midwives.
When she takes a job as a midwife’s apprentice, she learns that she is valuable and capable of accomplishing anything.
I think a lot of middle-school-aged kids struggle with their self-esteem, so they’d find the character relatable.“Just because you don't know everything don't mean you know nothing.” – The Midwife’s ApprenticeThe Bad: For an adult reader (and maybe for some young readers), it’s extremely predictable.
Predictability takes some of the fun out of the reading experience.The Bottom Line: For an educational story, it moves quickly and holds the reader’s attention.
Basic Plot: A homeless girl in medieval England finds her place in the world and her purpose.The situation of the poor girl at the beginning of the book about tore my heart out.
This story was simple, but the meaning of it is what is really important.
The midwife says she needs someone who "can do what I tell her, take what I give her, who can try and risk and fail and try again and not give up." So much in life depends on sheer, stubborn persistence that this is a vital lesson for anyone to learn.
I think that The Midwife’s Apprentice would be a book that would be difficult to teach in a middle grades setting.
The book covers how children are born and has some rather crude scenes.
That being said I think to teach the book would depend on the area.
The book would be alright to teach in an English class and I think that it could be used in a history class since it gives examples of how the world was back in the times when the world was still not as complex.
She is discovered one day by Jane, the village midwife.
Jane names her Beetle and takes her home to become an apprentice midwife.
The girl hears the name Alyce one day and decides that she loves the name.
But when a gaggle of strangers shows up one night and it is decided that the woman of the group is in labor, Alyce hides under the stairs.
When everyone leaves the room, unable to deal with the laboring woman Alyce feels sympathy for her.
After some hard work on the parts of both her and the mother, a little boy is born.Having gained her confidence Alyce returns to the midwife to finish her training.
Jane gives Beetle all the difficult work of her profession, but she is careful to keep Beetle away from observing Jane during delivery, fearing Beetle will learn the secrets of midwifery and become a competitor.Slowly Beetle grows in experience and self-confidence, saving a boy from drowning, aiding a cow in delivering twins, even helping a mother with an impossible delivery give birth to a healthy girl.
Beetle renames herself Alyce and she begins to learn Jane’s secrets and aid Jane in deliveries.Then Alyce is confronted with a tough delivery.
The story itself is very realistic and somewhat still predictable except for the ending.
Jane, the midwife, finds a little girl in a pile of fecal matter.
Beetle, this is how the villagers call her, is hard-working and very grateful for all she has.
Although the villagers treat her poorly, she helps them.
Throughout the book, she realizes many things: how she is also a person no matter what the others say about her and that she is capable and intelligent.
Like I said before, the whole story is pretty predictable except for the ending which really surprised me and made me feel emotional.
When the thought of living during that time makes you run for the shower!
Karen Cushman has a gift for portraying time periods accurately, and the setting for The Midwife's Apprentice is no exception.
Beetle, our protagonist, is first described as sleeping in a dung pile, but is soon discovered by Jane, the curmudgeonly midwife who sets her to work as her apprentice.
Very well written, with vivid (no-holds-barred) description, this book pulls you back to the fourteenth century and at the end, while you'll be sad to see Beetle go, you'll be even more glad for running water and refrigerators!
I wasn't sure what to expect since it wasn't written for adults (I thought), but the vibrant writing and descriptions made it awesome.
I would love to read another book by this author.
I especially enjoyed the extra bit at the end where Cushman discusses the herbs used in medieval midwifery and how they were sometimes effective, and sometimes not.
Also, so strange, but when I read the inscription plate in my library's copy, I realized that the book was donated to the the APL by my children's pediatrician and his wife!
I recommend it to anyone who enjoys excellent writing!
Great little book about a girl who literally comes from a dung heap and finds her place in the world as a midwife's apprentice.
This one is now on the summer book shelf for my 10 year old daughter.
My daughter has been exposed to more graphic images in her real life while watching a robin's egg hatch.Oh and I just have to add for those who think that this children's book is the icing on the cake that hospital birth is the way to go: Midwifery has advanced since the Middle Ages.
Comparing this book to modern day midwives, is like comparing Middle Age medical practices with modern medicine.
This is a realistic medieval fiction for young readers 12+ and a well-deserved Newberry Medal winner.
This tale follows the trials and tribulations of a young girl (Beetle, named because as homeless she uses the dung for heat.) in early medieval times.
She finds herself apprenticed to the local midwife, knowledge and wisdom alone, and finds her place in the world.Cushman has researched the subject well.
(view spoiler)[ The near rape of Beetle by drunken boys, the midwife's affair with the baker, the well described birth scenes (hide spoiler)] But it's an important book worth remembering.
Beetle is a young girl who has nothing. Except the smarts to hide in a dung pile in order to stay warm. And the wherewithal to accept whatever chores, abuse, and food are thrown her way by the village midwife.But then Beetle begins to learn.About Cat. Whom she rescues from a rather ill fate.And Will. Whom she rescues from the same fate.And soap.Ah, the world is full of miracles. Even for a midwife’s apprentice.A quick feeling story about a girl with everything stacked against her. I zipped through this one in about three hours and have absolutely no regrets.
If there was ever a book that served as the picture in Webster's Dictionary alongside "Newbery Medal", this is it.
Well, yes, there are lots more Newbery books that are supremely superior to this one, but all my favorites don't tend to be typical Newbery fodder.
This one is (probably not a top 10 favorite, probably in the mid to upper 20s), and I'm not saying that's a bad thing.
Too short to be an actual recommendation, but a good one if you need a gentle, typical introduction to Newbery World.
This was an easy read, but other than that I didn't find much worthwhile in it.
Alyce was not a particularly strong protagonist and sees transformation/development only at the very end.
This book was lacking transitions between chapters and felt disjointed.
I couldn't help but be appalled by the acceptance of weird voodoo as medicine, even though it was accepted at the time.
I also found the topic of child-birth a bit strange for this age group because nothing can really be described in detail without being too graphic, so you're left with a very vague picture that gives no actual idea how children are born.
