https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1538543.Who_Has_Seen_the_Wind
This is a feat that I probably would not have accomplished if I had any other options to occupy my time, because this was a really boring read.Imagine The Heart is a Lonely Hunter but without the tension, without a plot, without any of the interesting characters, and with a lot of gophers.
Dead and alive gophers.
Oh, and set in the prairies.To be fair, there were some good scenes in the book that did keep me reading but they were so under-developed in favour of the simplicity and celebration of the thoroughly uneventful, that they are hardly worth mentioning.
"Feathering lazily, crazily down,loosed from the hazed softness of the sky, the snow came to rest in startling white bulbs on the dead leaves of the poplars, webbing in between the branches.
Just outside the grandmother's room, where she lay quite still in her bed, the snow fell soundlessly, flake by flake piling up its careless weight.
Now and again a twig would break off suddenly, relieve itself of a white burden of snow, and drop to earth." The prose is absolutely beautiful; you are in the scene- in the prairies, in the wind, in the cold...
Aa coming-of-age during the Great DepressionIf it be a no-brainer adventure or a plot full of relentless debauchery you’re looking for, I suggest you avoid this book entirely.
It tells the story of a prairie boy’s initiation into the mysteries of life, as he discovers death, God, and the spirit that moves through everything: the wind.
The plot details the little things in life that most of the masses overlook, and accurately relates the expressions and deep feelings of a young person growing up during the Great Depression.
WHSTW has definitely contributed to the way I looked at life in general, as a young person at the time.

On one level, it is the story of a little boy, Brian, growing up in a small town on the prairies in the "dust bowl" years, a thoughtful boy who learns to grow into a compassionate, caring human being.
Two different characters refer to Joseph Conrad's Heart of Darkness (in referring to the same third character).Within these pages, Mitchell has brought to life a wide cast of believable characters with a light but precise touch.
His exquisite descriptions of life and nature show his love of the prairie landscape.
Throughout, he weaves thoughtful explorations of the meaning of life and what it means to be human.
July 27th, 2013: I'm reading this book for my summer English class, so I'm not expecting to like it.
Here we go!Update July 29th: About halfway through the novel now.
As expected, I'm not really liking it at all.
This was a bad book.
Horrible, dry prose, mentally unstable characters, and distant narration that keeps me from relating to or feeling sympathy for any of the characters just made this book a terrible reading experience.
I don't care if this is a "Canadian classic", it's just a bad book.Please excuse me while I read some Kenneth Oppel.
His father's affectionate nickname for Brian was "Spalpeen" and the reader can feel Brian's aching loss, knowing he will never hear his father speak that name again.The writing is quite beautiful.
One of my favourite things about reading is coming across a line that perfectly describes a thing I have thought or felt but never found words for.
One such in this book is "Within himself, Brian felt a soft explosion of feeling".
So perfect and I can see it, can't you?Mitchell seems to create that "small town on the big prairie" feeling effortlessly.
Holy hell.A very Steinbeckian voice meets "To Kill A Mockingbird." Sad and beautiful. Couldn't put it down."Where spindling poplars lift their dusty leaves and wild sunflowers stare, the gravestones stand among the prairie grasses. Over them a rapt and endless silence lies. This soil is rich."
A book bathed in the golden sunshine of a sepia-tinted childhood. This is a novel touched with a magic few authors can compete with. Whatever world Mr. Mitchell inhabited, we are all blessed that he translated it to the printed page for all of us to enjoy. It made even the early-teenaged me weep with sadness and joy.
I LOVED this book! I found characteristics of most of the characters to resonate inside me. I applaud the sensitivity of W.O. Mitchell in entering the world of children, especially boys. I cannot wait to read more of his work.
I am adding this book but it has the honour of being the worst, driest book I have ever read.
Who Has Seen the Wind was an excellent novel, telling the story of a young boy's point of view on his rural Canadian neighborhood, his family, his friends and the world.
The cuckoo clock had poked the stillness nine times; the house cracked its knuckles, and the night wind stirring through the leaves of the poplar just outside his room on the third floor, strengthened in its intensity until it was wild at his screen.He had thought again of the strange boy on the prairie and felt, as he did a stirring of excitement within himself, a feeling of intimacy elusive as the pale perfume of a violet.”But also in there lies my crux.
I recommend this book for people interested in life on the Canadian prairies during this time period, but for me it was a choppy read.
Very little plot, a lot of interior life and natural description, death-death-and-more-death, and far too subtle social and psychological commentary for a 14 year old--even an aware, intelligent one--to fathom.
I can appreciate all those things more now, but still, it's not my favourite book (I think I'd have liked it more if more empathy had been shown for the animals throughout(view spoiler)[--that sadistic gopher scene was especially tough (hide spoiler)]).The underlying themes of conforming to one's nature being more holy than conforming to one's society or religious dogma/standards, and Brian's "spiritual" feeling of what?
empathy with Divine Nature?
And Mitchell's portrayal of the socially oppressive environment of a prairie town rang true -- perhaps a Western variant of Davies' Deptford with all its local petty tyrants and their victims.But that failed to make it an enjoyable story -- in fact there's not much story at all, just a set of character studies.
Mitchell goes to great lengths to make his main character real and appealing but in the end he's just an overly-sensitive child whose fancies appear to spring from his Irish ancestry.
I have a Canadian son-in-law who gave me this and two other books by Canadian writers for Christmas/Birthday with the idea that I might enjoy and profit by a deeper acquaintance with Canadian things literary.
I’m glad that Mr. Mitchell gained success with this book and that he has enjoyed a long and distinguished career.
I’m glad also that Canadians have a bonding literary experience to share.
Bad things happen, but somehow they don’t hurt too much.
In the end, life is good out on the small town prairie and a fella wouldn’t want to live anywhere else.
My mother tried to have this book removed from the curriculum in the Christian high school I went to.After she failed, I could hardly wait to read the book.
There was absolutely nothing any reasonable person could have objected to, and very little to titillate a typical boy in grade 10.According to my mother, the word damn appeared too often, and there was a religious fanatic who wasn't portrayed in a positive light.I love my mom, but she was way off base on this one.
The religious fanatic was a crazy person who was not (of course) meant to represent anybody except crazy people.Having said that, I found the book not particularly interesting or compelling.
I've read this four times during four different phases of my life. The first time was as a lonely, neglected eleven year old. The second time was as a nineteen year old military girl. The third time was as a twenty-five year old nanny. The fourth time was as a forty year old wife and mother. I LOVED it each time. Something about the sweeping, vast prairie, golden fields and blue endless skies speaks comfort, patience, love, peace and beauty to my heart.
Some parts of this book I loved the way it was written. Some parts I'm not sure I understood it. I liked how W.O. Mitchell was so descriptive. Somethings like a mouse was a complete riddle to figure out he was talking about a mouse, but when I knew that's what he was writing about I was like wow that's amazing.
Cute book, but nothing special - like a mix between Little House on the Prairie and Tom Sawyer.
One of the most amazing bboks ever I loved the way w.o. mitchell showed so much love and passion for what he belived in through his writting and The search for god was touching.
A Canadian classic! My favourite image from the book: "where the sidewalk ends and the Prairie begins".
59) The human characters are quickly drawn: "After the Soo Line of the C.P.R. had disappeared into the prairie's flat emptiness, Brian drove out to the farm with his Uncle Sean As the ancient Ford with a hissing plume of steam from its radiator cap bumped over the prairie trail, Sean cursed.
He cursed the eight miles to the farm, the brakes on the car when it went past the gate, the wire loop on the gatepost when it resisted him, its barb when it tore the shoulder of his coat as he leaned against it.
Who could resist a novel with passages such as this: [i]Shadows lengthen; the sunlight fades from cloud to cloud, kindling their torn edges as it dies from softness to softness down the prairie sky.
He grew up on the prairies and when I read the passage where the young protagonist of the novel loses his father I can not help but think of my own dad and his love of the prairies and of their vast, endless skies...
Fathers died and sons were born; the prairie was forever, with its wind whispering through the long, dead grasses, through the long and endless silence.[/i]This novel is Canadiana at its finest.
How I Came To Read This Book: I believe this is the first book I read in my Canadian fiction course in first year university.
It’s a relatively sweeping coming of age story of a young boy’s life on the prairies.
If you LIKE classic Canadian fare, with plenty of dry, dusty prose, you will dig this book.
To Mitchell’s credit, the book does evoke the same emotions and styles of other similar Canadian AND coming of age novels, and it’s interesting to see them through the eyes of a young boy rather than Hagar in ‘Stone Angel’ or Scout in ‘To Kill A Mockingbird’.
That is somewhat borne out to me, as reviewers seem to like to provide quotes from the book here.
As the mother of two young adult sons, here was one of my favorites, as Maggie contemplates her two boys"It was like being on the other side of a fence and jumping up to see them--a glance--fleeting, not enough for certainty--blot out--another glance--the wall again.
Other people, she decided, must feel the same about the bits that had broken away from their own bodies to live on the other side of the fence--to have lives of their own.
She heard the cavern sounds of the coal shovel below--like their father--that would be enough.
It's a simple premise done beautifully and remarkably with all dialogue and accent pushed through and driven so you can hear the old Prairie dialect and tone with each character.Ultimately my lust for slice-of-life maintained the book at the 3 star rating as I felt the sheer amount of gross death was, although probably period appropriate, I felt...numb by the time we reached the last death, like I was able to predict how each chapter would end as it often ended with a bird, gopher, family member, neighbour or farm animal exhaling their final breath.
For the majority of its 300 pages, it is a deeply affecting and often humorous coming of age story.
I read these with an involuntary smile on my face, interrupted only by temporary bouts of melancholy during the book's more tender moments.
Then, in the book's final act, the story naturally - perfectly - transforms into a meditation on the way in which we live our lives and come to terms with the impermanence of our existence.
Rather, it is at that moment that you realize what the story - seemingly without plot to that point - had been building to.
We had read this book as a school assignment (probably high school)and neither of us could remember being immensely impressed by it even though we knew it was a Canadian classic.
I suspect that we just weren't mature enough in high school to appreciate what Mitchell was doing; and, I suspect, it was not a particularly good curriculum choice for that age group.I recently finished a Pierre Berton memoir in which he talks about W.O. Mitchell and his work, and that was what inspired me to give this book another try.This BML Library copy was switched out in August 2016 for a used MacMillan of Canada "gold softcover" edition, signed by the author.
On the bright side it makes you appreciate other classics like Shakespeare just for how incredibly boring it is in comparison.
It does accurately depict life and people in a small prairie town, I'll give it that.
From the town busybody of a woman to its insular nature and groupthink, it's accurate to the millimetre.
Problem is I had enough of that in my own home town.
I didn't want a book that related to what I've already felt.
I wanted an ESCAPE from that reality, not a reinforcement of it.
That's probably why I don't like it.
