https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/92846.Antrax
Across fathomless seas, beyond the far horizon, the voyagers aboard the Jerle Shannara face the deadliest - and darkest - challenge of their lives.The Voyage of the Jerle Shannara trilogy takes a new direction with its second book.
This is where the new world of Shannara faces what is left of the old.
Magic meets science while the crew of the Jerle Shannara struggles desperately for survival.I liked Antrax.
But out of so many good novels in the Shannara series, this is simply not one of the best in my opinion.
In the end, it only paves the way for an amazing conclusion to the trilogy.
I started reading this book immediately after Ilse Witch, and I’m glad to see that Terry Brooks is following his familiar pattern.
What I like about this trilogy is how Brooks has departed from the typical magical entity that has to be destroyed and is instead using an artificial intelligence system from the old world (our world) as the bad guy in this novel.
Out of all the different storylines, I think I like the one with Bek and his sister the most.
I also think that she will switch sides and help Bek and company against Morgwahr in the final installment of the trilogy.
I only discovered Brooks a few years ago, starting with the original Shannara series published in a single volume.
At the time I remarked on how easy it was to see the progress he made as a writer from the first to the last of that series.
The leap he made from those books to the Voyage of Shannara series is equally great.
In these books the plot is more complex, the characters while still somewhat typecast are more interesting and the writing is smoother.
The voyage goes to a place left behind by the dead technology-dominated culture, but the name of the place is "Castledown" -- hardly a technological-linked name.
I was not expecting this book to take quite as many turns as it did, and the blend of Old World and New World fantasy of Shannara was exceptional.
Sure, there were parts of the book that were predictable, but this was one storyline that had me hoping for different outcomes at almost every turn, never receiving them, but being content nonetheless.
I'm sure a lot of fans were upset about how things ended up with this book, but you have to hand it to Brooks.
Cucù da Castledown Gira e rigira, Brooks va a sbattere sulle medesime dinamiche e gli stessi oggetti con cui abbiamo avuto il piacere di confrontarci per otto volumi (più un prequel).Eccetto tutte le banalità del caso, una menzione speciale va fatta per Antrax, imperscrutabile intelligenza artificiale delle Grandi Guerre, nonché freddo accumulatore di dati con il pericoloso compito di proteggerli e ripreparare il mondo all'avvento della tecnologia. Un ottimo antagonista che avrebbe meritato una scrittura più matura.Lettura gradevole, ma con il rischio di annoiarsi per lo schema pedissequo della quest riproposto in ogni romanzo.
6.5/10My initial review was deleted by mistake/my error and I don't have the patience to write it down again (especially for a book I am not that invested into and struggled through). This was better than the first in the series but not great overall. Too many characters whom none of which I cared for. I will finish the series but won't read anymore into the Shannara world. The saving grace of the last novel is it's the shortest of the three.
The team travels to the island that holds this mysterious magic while being pursued by the Ilse Witch in her goal to seek revenge on Walker Boh and to take possession of this powerful magic.
They were led into a trap by the very thing that guards the treasure that he seeks.
The group becomes scattered by a turn of events and Walker Boh is left in a dark maze to battle this thing on his own.
The Voyage of the Jerle Shannara - Antrax is definitely more involved with the characters and what they discover on their journey than the first book.

We get to know more of the characters, Tamis and Quentin, Ahren, Ryer, and of course Bek, Truls, Grianne, and Walker.
The biggest new character is terrifying and all too relate-able in our world.
My only trouble with this book is I don't see how all the characters are going to remain mentally intact after going through so many horrors.
Sometimes it seems that Brooks throws too much at his characters and has you wondering if there are any fluffy bunnies in their world.
And you know a lot more is to come in book three!
This might be my favorite book in the Shannara franchise.
What Brooks brings to Antrax is not just a well written fantasy, but a joining together of fantasy and science fiction where elves and dwarves meet the computer systems and technology of the long forgotten past.
Where the previous book, Isle Witch, gives the fantasy enthusiast enraptured by the world created by Brooks a taste of the Steampunk genre this book goes even further and it works out extremely well and not just because of the blending of the tech with the magic of the fantasy, but because it also adds to the overall story and gives the reader quite an awesome plot twist.
Overall I enjoyed the book like I do all Shannara books, but....My only real issue with Antrax was that the story kept going back and forth.
It felt a little contrived just to extend the length of the story, rather than furthering or enhancing the story.Don't get me wrong..I don't mean that it was so contrived it was bad...it just felt like there was a little bit more "back and forth" than there needed to be.I do love the premise of the Shannara characters coming face to face with a living remnant from the past (e.g.
The action is much better, though still not on par with his other, earlier novels, but the phrasing and vocabulary still seem out of place for his usual writing style.The characters--namely Bek, Ahren, and Quentin--really evolve in this novel.
Why you should pick it up: You've read Isle Witch, it's a good sequel, strong action, good character development, interesting story elements.
Why you should leave it: Not his best writing, not his best storyline, some pretty cheesy characters/"dramatic scenes", the ending points in a very obvious direction (I hope I have to eat my words after reading Morgawr, but at the rate this trilogy is going I doubt that I will).
The first book started out formulaic but by the end Brooks had pulled it all together to make it a 4 star read.
This book started out ok and in no time at all it kicked into a higher gear than I've seen since Elfstones of Shannara.
There was so much character development I had doubts this was a Shannara book at all.
Brooks' books are a lot of fun but not exactly deep in character dev.
Add in a strong dose of apocalyptic technology and some truly horrifying scenes, well all I can say is "Holy cow!" Well done Mr. Brooks.
I loved this book.
It took me since last Thanksgiving to finish it though, since I would start and stop it as I picked up and finished other books.
It was a little long winded, but in a good way, as Terry Brooks always is (more so in the middle of this book).
I described it to a friend up in Virginia as "the druid is captured, the elf missing, the shapeshifter and boy are running for their lives and...man, I AM reading a D&D book!
At least it sounds like it." But I do love Terry's books.
Oh, very upset that my favorite character for the last six books is dead/dying.
#19/29 in my Epic Shannara Quest.One of a small handful of great Shannara books.
Unusually dark and well-told tale about a meeting of the Old World before the Great Wars and the World of Shannara.
Technology and magic collide in this middle section of The Voyage of the Jerle Shannara that is full of terrific character embellishments and unforseen events to make for an exhilerating read.
Imaginatively, intellectually and emotionally satisfying, this is the "better story" I hoped Brooks was looking towards as he played by the numbers in the dreary Ilse Witch, making the slog through that book soooooooo worth the effort.
This is the middle book of a trilogy and I haven't read either the first or the third yet. This book did stand on its own but I felt that I was missing the whole picture so I have reserved 1 and 3 from my library. Terry Brooks is a great writer but like all series some of the books are better than the others. This one I feel is not one of those. It was interesting enough that I do want to read the others to see the whole picture.
So where were we? Ah, yes, a giant, weather-controlling, all-powerful, almost-as-smart-as-Mike-Thayer, computer vs. the forces of both good and evil. The book starts off with our heroes in distress and scattered to the four winds. The book then proceeds to proceed for several hundred pages, and ends rather dramatically by leaving our heroes distressed and scattered to the four winds. The End. So what do I do? On to book #3!
In this sequel to Ilse Witch, Brooks doesn't disapoint. Stranded on the island, the survivors of the first book attempt to stay survivors. But is that possible, when the land contains vicious monsters, and twisted robots constructed of the body parts of humans?
I started off thinking technology in the fantasy world would be blah, until I realized the tie in. It is amazing that a person wrote a book decades ago and tied it in so well in this series and Armageddons Children! Abosolutely worth the read
This book just shows the depth of imagination that Terry Brooks has...absolutely blew my mind!
Niiiiice concept. A very powerful druid, entering a lair of a modern age computer complex, Guarded by droids and indestructible cyborg killers. All overseen by a computer...great thrill
exciting and adventurous read as usual, not my favorite Brooks book though.
This is Brooks at his best. What more can you ask for in an epic fantasy novel? I am excited to read the conclusion of the series.
I don't know if its both the writing and the fact that I have not gone back to reading Terry Brooks in years that made this such a fast and pleasurable read.Following the events of Isle Witch, the Druid Walker Boh finds himself trapped beneath Castledown, a fortress that is said to be where the fabled Books of Magic are housed.
So far with this series I've been happy with the continuation of Walker and the way Brooks continues his character while introducing new ones. The blend of the familiar and the new is really nice and I feel like Brooks is just now getting into the blend. I was surprised when, SPOILERS, we found out there were other Ohmsford's and that part is really fun to read. Overall I'm really enjoying the series and excited for the next book.
Almost 4 stars but not quite. The general plot was quite good. The thing is, I think another writer could have written the exact same plot but in a more exciting style. I feel that Brooks is quite often telling and not showing - there's just so much explaining of the thinking going on in people's heads rather than actual dialogue and action to indicate the same information. And the magic is pretty hand-wavy. Pretty exciting ending though. Yet another great cliff-hanger!
So, this book was good. It delivered the goods, BUT, Terry spent a LOT of time picking a topic and going over it in one character’s head and the another and then another and then....well, you get the idea. The book could easily have been 100 pages shorter. Still, the book was good but a lot of inane drama.
omfg NOTHING happened for about 98% of this book. Nothing! constant running around some bloody metal maze and a swift, mind-numbingly boring decent into tech-talk. I skimmed this one, lingering on the ONLY good thing about this book; the Isle witch herself. If it were not for her I would have given up this series after 2 chapters.
I think this was my favorite of the series thus far. Although following the same formula of its predecessors, this collection of characters and their adventure was really enjoyable. I'm really digging the addition of air ships and the exploration of old world science as parts of the mythology.
Good book. Makes you really think about mankind progress. We live in a world that seems like it is moving forward. Terry Brooks reminds us that great nations have fallen, and that technology isn't a safeguard from destruction and ruin.
