https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/89791.The_New_Girl
A mad millionaire named Simon Fear once lived there and his burned out mansion is all that is left of him and his legacy (or is it???) there are always strange happenings on Fear Street which you would think have people avoiding it more."The New Girl" follows Cory Brooks.
But if Anna is dead, who is the girl at the school who Cory finds himself thinking about all the time.Well this book is honestly a mess.
Cory has other friends he talks to as well as his friends and a mysterious stranger he keeps meeting on Fear Street.My big issue though is 180 pages is way too short to develop a really good story.

I'm Back In LoveIt's been some years since I have read the "Fear Street" series.
I used to read them every chance I get, with every book that I could get my hands on.
You couldn't pay me to put the books down.
Everywhere I went, the books followed.
Lately (I'm 23 now), I've been having the urge to re-read the series and also read the books I never got a chance to, and I'm glad I did.
My love for this best-selling series have rekindled.
This book started off slow, but when it picked up, it didn't let me go.
This book was about a boy named Cory, who lives in Shadyside and goes to Shadyside High.
The only thing Cory knows about Anna is that she lives on Fear Street, a street that's spooky and a little haunted.
I thought that this book was overall good because it kept me wanting to find out what is happening to Anna.
I enjoyed reading it and I think that these Fear Street books are interesting because they keep readers on the edge and I felt that it was one of those page-turners.
L. Stine or likes to read mystery books.
Oh BradI read these books when I was a preteen & early teenage years. I decided to re-read the Fear Street series. Oh Brad. I hope you get smarter. I really do.
I needed a horror book and thought why not?The story is really cute, although not to "complicated" and intricately woven for adults.
But it's a fun and quick read and I can see why young people love his books.
In this story, Cory is a teenager who eyes Anna and she piques his immediate interest.
And there are reasons she is kind of a mystery to him because, of course, she has a secret.
It's kind of a love triangle.
I thought the way the story unfolded and how the ending went was still crazy fun and even intense at times.
First outing for our "Trash Teen Horror" book club and what a way to begin. Why yes these books can certainly be amusing as an adult. Sure the twist was fairly telegraphed, but I still enjoyed the journey to the ending. 3.5 stars
this book is about Cory falling in love with the new girl.
the new girl name is Anna.
Cory thinks that the is the most gorgeous girl ever.
cory didn't know how to ask her out, so he call her home.
by the way Anna livers all the way down in fear street.
anyways, Cory calls Anna, but this strange man answer and said Anna was died.
cory didn't know, what was he saying.
he know that Anna is in trouble because she has a dangerous brother name brad.
Anna was died.
i like reading fear street books because they are kind of scary.
Having grown up with Goosebumps and Point Horror, it’s slightly strange that I’ve not read a Fear Street book before.With plans for a forthcoming movie trilogy and being a sucker for anything horror, so I decided to give this first one a read.Set in the fictional city of Shadyside.
When new girl Anna Corwin catches he’s eye, Corey soon becomes infatuated with her.He learns that she’s moved into Fear Street, a creepy part of the city that seems to have been cursed.Why is Anna acting so strange and mysterious?
Will Corey find out her big secret?It’s quite an engaging plot, the mystery itself was practically good.
Reviewed on Lili Lost in a BookOh my gods, the first Fear Street book ever and I finally read it!So, we have Cory who is f*cking insane because after seeing Anna in passing, he pretty much becomes obsessed with her.
Well, not when it was actually revealed ‘cause I had figured out that particular twist ahead of time when Anna finally told her life’s story before they moved to Shadyside—to Fear Street.
Lol.Overall though, I really liked The New Girl and the mystery about the oh-so enigmatic Anna.
I am so glad to have finally read the very first Fear Street book!
I've missed reading the Fear Street novels. I devoured them when I was younger! When I saw that they were re-released, I knew I had to read them again. This one wasn't as scary as I remembered them to be. I think my imagination makes the books worse! Can't wait to read more of them!
This series is so nostalgic for me!
Every once in a while I love picking up a Fear Street novel and emerging myself in the oddities that hide in Fear Street.
These are short novels that always have a mini cliffhanger at the end of each chapter, just tempting you to read more.
What better way than starting with the book that started it all, the first in the series.
These books don’t need to be read in order, so it’s just fun randomly picking one out of the bunch to read.
The problem with this series in general is that sometimes the characters are behaving so stupidly.
C'mon how stupid can you be?Then another character creates even more problems by not talking to people.
If they only said "Look, you can't do that and go there because..." half of the problem wouldn't even exist.Also, there is one thing that is not adding up.
(view spoiler)[ If one sister was admitted to the school, why didn't Cory find her documents?
I mean I get it that Anna's docs do not exist but where are W's?
(hide spoiler)]
I'm not sure I have ever hated a main character as much as I did this kid. Jeeze...
Definitely atmospheric and a decent mystery but oh these characters are terrible. Terrible and lucky.
Your boy is dumb and thirsty.
This book made me crazy. I became bad mood because of this. I didnt know guy could be so dumb when falling in love with a very beautiful girl (no offense). I hate Cory 😂
It gets under your skin just enough that you turn the light on an extra notch and settle back in to read.THE NEW GIRL is the first book in the Fear Street series and I'd say (while I've read them way out of order) this would be a pretty good start.
Well, as rational as a horror book can get.
You come to expect it reading his work.THE NEW GIRL is a great addition to any cheese lover's library, especially if you can snag a first printing paperback like I have.
Every cover I've seen looks like it was partially eaten by someone's dog.
Pg 9 - I love how 80s kids are flattered by looking like Cher.
I now realize why they had to update the BSC books.
*can't read my note here but it looks like "gee wilkes that sp wasnice" (???)*Pg 30 - Cool walkman, bro.
He doesn't care to get to know her, he's just like, you're all encompassing!
Every chapter ended in a "!" or a "?" and it made me feel like I was reading a Choose Your Own Adventure.
Oh my god, Cory was one of the dumbest protagonists I’ve ever seen.
I still don’t even understand why Cory was so obsessed with Anna either.
Next thing I knew, he was finding out her number and address from the phone operator and showing up at her house in the middle of the night like a creep.
Like, Cory doesn’t even know this girl!
I just couldn’t deal with his character.
It wasn’t a big deal, but it took me out of the book a bit to hear references to iPods and Kanye West songs.
(Spoiler: it is not.)I really wanted to love this book but honestly, it was a struggle to even like it.
Yes, it's the first Fear Street novel, but honestly, his books got so much better and so much spookier.
(That would not be hard to do.)There is no logical reason why Cory likes Anna so much, and the quirks in this story make no sense whatsoever.
(Why does Anna wear weird, old-fashioned clothes?
What's the deal with the weird old neighbor?)For completists only.
At first you read this and you think "Oldest cliche in the scary movie handbook - falling in love with a ghost - you're the only person who sees her.
She's 'Hauntingly beautiful.' And yet you just can't seem to wrap your fool head around the fact that the girl's so *obviously* a ghost!" And yet, Stine surprises you with a sordid plot twist.
I can't say it comes completely out of left field - but even re-reading this as an adult I found I had totally forgotten the sappy soap opera "evil twin" cliche with which Stine ties it all together (in that sense it was unpredictable).
I have read this book over three times now, maybe even more & I love it even more each time I read it. This book is about a boy name Cory & one day he sees a very pretty girl named Anna, but Anna is not the person Cory thinks she is. Can't really say anything because i dont want to spoil the book for anyone but this book had a crazy plot twist at the end & I guarantee it will have you on the edge of your seat! I recommend this book to anyone! it's very interesting!
Wow. I mean really, this was awesome. R.L. Stine has such talent of when you THINK you know what's going to happen, it changes and makes you second guess yourself.The New Girl did just that. Through reading it it had so many twists and turns! Finally I gave up trying to guess the truth lol. The ending was crazy though but I must say, it left me with more questions because while it did change a lot, it left me questioning if the ending was the truth or not. I guess we'll never know.
Yes, that RL Stine. Yes, that Fear Street. I wanted to see how well one of my favorite series held up, and the answer is: remarkably well. Some bits of the story have been updated from the original (listening to the Walkman became the cell phone, etc). Great high-interest book for struggling readers.
Holy shit, was this a miserable experience. The first book of the best selling YA horror series of all time, and man did kids in the late 80s had bad taste. YA has really come so far since this was released.If you want to hear me complain about this some more, the first episode of our YA horror podcast, YAmpires will be up soon.
I'm not adding all of them, but I loved the Fear Street books as a pre-teen. They're terribly written for the most part, but come on. This dude didn't just write a book about demon-possessed cheerleaders; he wrote THREE books about demon-possessed cheerleaders!
I liked how this book was very mysterious - a little scary - but very interesting. I really wanted to find out what would happen in the end! It's all about a star gymnast who thinks this new girl is eerily beautiful. He has to find and talk to her!
I honestly didn't expect the ending ! The book was good !
I don't love this book nearly as much as I did when I was younger but still a solid 3 star book!
