https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/287542.The_Thirty_Years_War
This is why, despite the religious motivations of many of the local leaders, Catholic France was happy to ally with Protestant Sweden if it meant taking the Habsburgs down a peg or two.The super-armies that resulted from these opportunistic alliances were beyond the control of any state.
The idea of a national standing army was then in its infancy – indeed it's one of the concepts that the Thirty Years War has been said to have brought about – and most soldiers were mercenaries, coming from a whole range of different countries and of dubious loyalty even at the best of times.
The Peace of Augsburg of 1555 had ensured the coexistence of the landed German princes, many of whom were Lutheran, under the Catholic Hapsburg King Charles V.
The Thirty Years War was largely the war of the Counter-Reformation.
Until the Thirty Years War Germany was by and large a Hapsburg possession.
Author C.V. Wedgwood brings a degree of focus and narrative drive to these extraordinarily complex events that reminds me very much of Barbara Tuchman.
Wedgwood also has as fine and nimble a gift for the counterfactual scenario as I've ever come across.
If the above portion of this review makes you want to know more (and—trust me—there's a lot more to know), then pick up C.V. Wedgwood's The Thirty Years War. At over five hundred pages (in the NYRB edition), it is certainly thorough, especially during the first twenty years of the war, but it is also quite accomplished as a narrative.
So I advise all readers to look for maps of the HRE during the Thirty Years War online (there are many), print one, and tuck it into the front of your book for future reference.
So what follows are some things that caught my attention that in many cases varied from my understanding of the war prior to reading the book.Was the war caused by the Reformation?The Reformation had occurred nearly a hundred years earlier and the fighting between the German Lutherans and Catholics had ended with the 1526 Diet of Speyer which was later ratified as The Peace of Augsburg (1555).
So the causal relationship between the Reformation and the Thirty Years War was indirect.Was it a war between the Catholics and Protestants?Broadly speaking it was, but both sides were divided by multiple interests and jealousies.
Πίσω από τη σύγκρουση αυτή υπέβοσκε η σταθερή διαμάχη Αψβούργων και Βουρβόνων, οι πρώτοι υποστηριζόμενοι από την πάλαι ποτέ κραταιά ισπανική αυτοκρατορία που σταδιακά έφθινε συμπαρασύροντας τους συμμάχους της, ενώ η δεύτερη άρχιζε να παίρνει τη θέση της στη "σκακιέρα".
Και, τέλος, ο λαός (χωρικοί, αστοί), εργαλεία-μαριονέτες στα σχέδια των ισχυρών, ευρισκόμενοι στη μέση των μαχών και των λεηλασιών που διεξάγονταν άτυπτα από μισθοφορικούς (ως είθιστο την εποχή εκείνη) κυρίως στρατούς, υφιστάμενοι χωρίς λόγο και με ελάχιστες αιτίες τη βία όλων, τη σιτοδεία, τον αφανισμό της παραγωγής και της ύπαρξής τους.
"The Thirty Years War" was first published in 1938, and Wedgwood's account of a central Europe devastated by a war where a few fanatics and a great many well-meaning but stubborn fools refused to allow peace to be made or reason to prevail was shaped by what was waiting in the wings.
It's a finely written book, and the accounts of the great events--- the Defenestration of Prague, the flight of the hapless Winter King from Bohemia, the deaths of Wallenstein and Gustavus Adolphus ---are masterful.
Sauerkraut or Roast Beef?From the time of the uprisings in Prague, with the King's agents being tossed out the windows 70 feet down, and Ferdinand's being deposed and appointed as HRE, to the acceptance of the throne as King of Bohemia by Frederick, who soon had to flee to the Hague after only a Winter as King, to the sacking of Magdeburg with all its horror, to Wallenstein's assassination, to the Peace of Westphalia; the Thirty Years War was third in total loss of life in Europe only less than that in the Two World Wars.
Wedgwood covered the details of all the events in story format, with the result that it reads like a novel, rather than a history book.
(Note that the book was published in 1938, when the harvest of WWI devastation and reparations was about to be reaped.) The war started as a power struggle between the German princes and Austria, with some religious element orginating in Bohemia, and ended as a full blown proxy war between the Bourbons and the Hapsburgs.
(Her descriptions of plague, torture and famine throughout the book are devastating.) She concludes that it forms the transition from religious to national wars, starting as one and ending as the other.I think this is probably a 4.5, but will reflect more on where it stands relative to my other reading.
(view spoiler)[Bettie's Books (hide spoiler)]
Or as the author puts ever so much more eloquently "an object lesson on the dangers and disasters which can arise when men of narrow hearts and little minds are in high places"Essentially flamed by religious intolerance the thirty years war kicked off when the Bohemians rose up in revolt of their Catholic Habsburg rulers and punctuated this by chucking some Catholic administrators out of the window of Prague castle thereby giving Catholic, Lutheran, and Calvinist Dukes, Princes, Kings and Emperors the impeteus to seek additional power and set off war devastating for all but those who caused it.
This book deeply affected me. So much so, it's actually hard to provide an objective review of its literary/historical merits.I wrote a blog post about it. http://mykecole.com/blog/2015/08/for-...Your mileage will probably vary from mine, but do yourself a favor and read it (the book, not my blog post, though you can read that too) anyway.
As much as Wedgwood recognizes the sufferings of the ordinary little people and just how destructive these years of war were, the book is still spending most of its time talking about the major figures and going through all the big hits from their perspective.
I find myself wishing that there was a parallel book to read, telling the history from the perspective of those who weren't really the actors but rather the sufferers.
What it was like to have the armies hit your town.
What it was like for those whose who had to flee their homes and towns and how they managed to live on the margins of the conflict.
This book was loved, without a doubt, despite the lack of causality, it was a narrative feast of how.
"After the expenditure of so much human life to so little purpose, men might have grasped the essential futility of putting the beliefs of the mind to the judgement of the sword. Instead, they rejected religion as an object to fight for and found others."
In Fulda and Coburg and near Frankfort and the great refugee camp, men went in terror of being killed and eaten by those maddened by hunger...Meanwhile the rulers of Hapsburg Austria, Bavaria, Bohemia, France, Spain, Sweden, the Palatinate, Saxony, and the rest of the aristocracy played a grand game with their mercenary armies.Yet, despite the weight of the subject matter, The Thirty Years War is an amazingly absorbing, readable, riveting book.
It will help you understand what was, at its time, the first world war, and the foundation for subsequent battles between Germany, France, Spain, Austria, Poland, etc.
Wedgwood lived through the First World War, and that conflict casts a shadow over the book's tone, but does not detract from the book's conclusions.
There is a genuine sympathy with the people—and the focus here is primarily on the German peoples--whose lives were ravaged by the waxing and waning of the conflict, contrasted with leaders who, pursuing their own dynastic or avaricious interests, took no time to weigh the consequences of either victory or defeat.
After explaining the interlocking machinations of each part of this complex series of wars, Wedgwood seems at a loss to explain the resulting whole, except to find a place for it on the shelf of history.
Past that, the book is almost entirely given over to politics.
Considering that the Thirty Years War was a conflict of multiple parties and agendas, and there were very few periods where there was not some serious attempt to find a peace settlement, this is a sensible way to proceed.As a one-volume overview, it is very good, and a very good place to start (better than Gardiner's 
At the same time, it does not leave me desperately wanting more detail on any particular subject.The end of the book does not only cover the end of the war, but the peace that followed.
Wedgwood's history of the Thirty Years War can be located within that ancient historiographic tradition beginning with Polybius and Thucydides, wherein an objective delineation of events is interwoven with speculative assessments of the major actors' psychological motivations and moral characteristics to produce something which can be appreciated as a work of literature as much as one of scholarship.
In this way, too, the book is markedly of an older school of thought.First published in 1938, Wedgwood's work remains valuable for its admirably clear exposition of an extremely complex period in European history, as well as its focus on the human element in war, from soldiers and civilians to heads of state.
It's wonderful scholarship but as a book, it's got some problems.
In the end, the top down approach is probably the least interesting angle on this long, horrible, weird war, something she all but admits in the last chapter when she analyses the impact of the war and counter-intuitively declares that there basically was none.I have a better grounding on the mechanics of the war now, but in no way do I feel closer to the experience of having lived through it.
I read this book to learn about a period of history I previously knew pretty much nothing about, and that I did. Not much more you can ask for than that.

3+ Dizzyingly complicated but well written and comprehensive--maybe too comprehensive. Of the decisive battle at the end of the war, she says it would be too much to say the terrain was "hilly", but that there was a depression between the armies, so that the attacker was going uphill.)
"They wanted peace and they fought for thirty years to be sure of it."
(Ferdinando I di Asburgo)Per lo piu' un testo di studio che di quotidiana lettura.Mancano le cartine geografiche ed almeno un elenco dei regnanti e comandanti.Nel 1618 la dinastia degli Asburgo era la piu' grande potenza d'Europa, Austria est imperitura orbi universo, sentenziava il suo fiero motto, vanto non infondato entro i ristretti limiti del mondo quale era concepito dall'uomo comune europeo.
la Casa d'Asburgo era il nemico, ma egli temeva la Spagna piu' dell'Austria e il suo scopo era di tenere l'Austria immobilizzata in Germania, mentre l'attacco principale contro la Spagna sarebbe stato scatenato sul Reno e nell'Italia settentrionale.
From the Wilson book:"Rudolf confidently took up a challenge to his lands from the Ottomans in 1593, embarking on what became the Long Turkish War that proved a fiasco for both sides.
The thirteen-year struggle contributed to a chain of problems that kept the Ottoman empire out of the Thirty Years War and ensured a period of relative tranquillity for Hungary.
Worse, the Turkish War left the Habsburgs financially and politically bankrupt, in turn contributing to the outbreak of renewed conflict in 1618."Wilson, Peter H.
Europe's Tragedy: A New History of the Thirty Years War (Kindle Locations 1673-1678).
Charlton Griffin, as usual, is an excellent choice for narration; he has great experience with classical and military subjects, and an easy familiarity with European names of non-Anglic origin.Regarding the work's veracity as a history, so much is drawn from widely documented events that only matters of interpretation remain as to the diplomacy and dates.
For a fine cinematic treatment of this subject I recommend 'The Last Valley,' http://www.imdb.com/title/tt0065969/.While Wedgewood does at times call villains and fools what they are, there is no hint of the axe-at-the-wheel; Wedgewood has not written this book to prove or justify any modern agenda, merely to give a reasonably brief exposition on the diplomatic and military currents that led to the widespread devastation and the first major blow (since the Reformation) against the Ancien Regime's basis in central Europe.
C.V. Wedgewood's coverage of the 30 years war is a meandering narrative that never quite captured my imagination, brought events to life, or provided much enjoyment.
I am not certain how to improve on Wedgewood's narrative - because she sticks to timelines she is often jumping back and forth between very many different aspects/locations of the story.
It certainly is a lot of different figures and events to convey in general so I am not sure if there is any better way to capture the war.I wouldn't recommend the audio book because of these things in combination.
While the new Wilson history has much more detail, background and analysis, Wedgwood brings the period alive in a way only the best writers of history can do.
Wedgwood has a clear love of Germany and Germans and seems to feel deeply for both the devastation wrought in the 17th century and the path down which the Nazi’s were taking the nation and its people.
Within a year of the book’s publication, the next act of the ongoing conflict would begin, bringing devastation on a scale that dwarfed even that caused by the Thirty Years War.
A solid beginner's guide to the Thirty Years War. I recommend it over the much more recent effort by Peter Wilson.
It is by no means a document for scholars of the era, but for those interested in the event this is an ideal little package to get started.
It is also very much part of the old fashioned great man historiography, having been written well before the social history of the mid 20th century.Still, if you want to know about the Thirty Years War, look to this volume to get you started.
The story reads wonderfully, but I can say that the overwhelming emphasis on political history and its military consequences, as well as mini-biographies of political leaders, wore me out quickly.
She does not handle religion well - seems to dislike Calvinists generally - and I was just begging for some social and cultural history within a couple of chapters.
Tell me more of economics, social customs, the lives of the peasants or life at court, something other than the relentless political movements in this horrendously depressing time when Germany was torn apart.
So, while the story is well told, it would not be my first choice for the subject matter.
