https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6667514-the-checklist-manifesto
The Checklist Manifesto is not as helpful as Gawande's previous books - especially Better: A Surgeon's Notes on Performance which improved my business quite a bit with the injunction to 'count something' (so we did, everything, and saw the patterns.
Gawande is so easy to read because he mixes his advice with proof and anecdotes, some of them personal.
Very enjoyable, light, non-fiction.Recommended for people who are allergic to self-help books (me) but work in a complex industry and would like some advice that doesn't look like it because as Oscar Wilde said, "The only thing to do with good advice is to pass it on.
Rather than count on simplification or drilling in knowledge, a checklist can be a really great solution.The best example related to flying bombers in the 30's.
If I'm going to do some serious cleaning, I might get it in my head to do a checklist first so that I don't waste any time.
Which makes it hard to rally and do the actual work.Gawande's other books, Complications and Better, also had really simple messages explained in a way even us dum-dums could understand.
But the message of this one, though important, was easy even for me, Archduke of Dum-Dums, to understand, and it might not have required a whole book.
This book argues checklists help us be more effective with complex tasks, by focusing us on what needs to be done and is often overlooked in emergency situations.
By creating a space for everyone to check in with the process, the checklist can empower all team members and allow them to speak up when things are not working.
(Example of authorizing people to make decisions - Walmart's decision to let staff do whatever needed to be done during Hurricane Katrine) When possible, the team should discuss events that are not accomplished as planned.
My having read - and enjoyed - a 200-page book about using checklists suggests that I'm a cocktail party nightmare, but I found this to be very much a worthy read.
Gawande's idea of effective checklists are those that free decision-makers up to use their expertise and will make for a more "democratic" decision-making procedure.The basic puzzle Gawande wants to solve is that in his field of medicine, as medical knowledge has advanced, the field has become so complex that no single individual is likely to both possess all the cutting-edge knowledge and expertise required for every contingency as well as be mentally prepared to take the right action all the time.
But without having some procedural ‘cultural’ trigger to actually go through the checklist one last time before handing in the assignment, many of us completely missed this question and lost what ought to have been fairly easy marks.The problem is that checklist are:Hard to writeHard to followEasy to convince ourselves we’ve followed when we haven’tOnly good for more or less predictable outcomes and processes.Given these limitations this book does make it clear that they do make substantial improvements to performance if they are well constructed, easy to use and effectively used.My main problem, though, is that checklists come at the problem from the wrong end of the telescope.

“One essential characteristic of modern life is that we all depend on systems—on assemblages of people or technologies or both—and among our most profound difficulties is making them work.” ― Atul Gawande, The Checklist Manifesto"Checklists seem to provide a protection against such failures.
Gawande usually starts with the idea: "Hand washing" in Better: A Surgeon's Notes on Performance) or "Checklists" (The Checklist Manifesto: How to Get Things Right) and creates a book around them.Like Dr. Gawande the person, I find his books to be interesting, compelling, admirable, and straightforward.
This serves him well in this book, whose general topic is achieving success in areas of endeavor that are intrinsically complex, where success requires a high level of interdisciplinary cooperation, and where the consequences of failure are catastrophic.
In 2006, Gawande was approached by the WHO to help develop a global program to reduce avoidable deaths and harm from surgery.
What followed from that request is one of the fascinating stories that make up this book, and the author does an excellent job of telling it.
That story on its own makes the book worth reading.
This is a terrific book - well-written, interesting, and thought-provoking.
Second, the checklists help bring the people in the operating room into a real team.
The checklist helps to bring the timid people out, to give them the confidence to say things that are wrong, when otherwise they might simply defer to the chief surgeon.Dr. Gawande was astounded by the success of his program.
The checklists helped improve surgical outcomes in all of the hospitals, regardless of economic zone.
But it didn't matter; in all cases, mistakes were noticed before harm was done, infections were thwarted, and the surgical teams were better prepared for the inevitable surprises and emergencies that occur.The book also mentions several other areas.
As our knowledge increases in this information age, more and more failures are coming from examples of ineptitude and lack of organization.Chapter 1 – Organization and communication are important in a hospital.
They can and do save lives.Chapter 2 – Checklists are important and effective in aviation and emergency medicine.Chapter 3 – There are three types of problems: simple (can be solved like following a recipe); complicated (solution requires multiple people, teams or specialists); and complex (each problem is unique and never the same twice).
Investigate your failures so that you can make future improvements.Chapter 7 – The assertion that checklists are important in hospitals is dramatically tested and further enforced.
Gawande outlines a number of studies that show exactly that & he goes on to show why through examples both in & out of his industry from a simple medical procedure, flying a plane, building a skyscraper, finance, & all the way to the boondoogle that surrounded New Orleans when Katrina hit in 2005.
He uses the aviation industry a lot since they originated/codified the process & prove it out continuously.The simple check list defines the goal, participants, & makes certain each step happens no matter what other distractions occur.
Still, I made a build check list years ago since I was forgetting things due to distractions or simply time between steps.
Booooooooring... and completely useless. Since I live + die by super-efficient checklists, I thought Gawande would offer how to do them better... at least give us sample checklists of the 1%. No such luck. Just drawn-out tales from hospitals and airports: important yes, but vague and impractical. At least compile actual checklists in the book's index! Imagine reading a cookbook without a single recipe :) Overall, a poorly-constructed read which by Chapter 3 seems like Gawande's way of publicly congratulating himself for becoming a surgeon. Bitch, please.
In my experience, telling people that I like to read is a risky endeavor. There are of course a select few bookworms, who would respectfully respond by asking about my taste in books. Most people's reaction however, tends to fall into one of the following extremes. 1) Utter bewilderment that anyone would STILL be spending time to read books... and for pleasure, no less.2) Great, let me recommend this absolutely amazing book called-- The first ones I can deal with easily enough: they feed my need
In my experience, telling people that I like to read is a risky endeavor.
and that's how this book ended up on my reading list.To be fair, I should admit that the book has a decent starting point.
We're most probably all fairly good professionals, but being pushed into a context where interruptions are stalking us at every corner, succeeding is almost impossible.Even so, there are cases where the end result doesn't make things any more pleasant.
Because I totally forget all about the list once someone has an emergency that needs my attention asap.Score: 3/5 starsA decent effort, and an excellent anecdote to end things with.
And checklists are a powerful tool for me as a business consultant, helping clients define, track, and evaluate their processes.All this to say that Dr. Gawande was preaching to the choir with this book; I'm already a believer.
They help insure quality and consistency and yes, save lives.Dr. Gawande includes some specifics about using checklists optimally: keep them short, include items that are often skipped or missed rather than every single step, easy to read.
It's really good.In particular, it is a shamelessly persuasive manifesto for a remarkably simple idea: smart people should focus their smart energy on doing things only smart people can do.
In particular, these idiots insist on trying to remember everything all the time, rather than using simple back-ups (he calls them check-lists) to insure they haven't forgotten a silly detail.
This, he suggests, means they frequently forget silly (but life-saving) details, AND they have to spend an enormous amount of time and energy trying to remember all those details, instead of doing real problem solving.
I crassly assumed that "How to Get Things Right" denoted it was a how-to book, and that "The Checklist Manifesto" would have offered advice or instruction on the best ways and times to implement various types of checklists.Wrong, wrong, wrong.
It's the literary equivalent of someone derailing your conversation in a bar and killing the next three hours of your life with tedious, tangentially related stories about himself.
No instruction, no advice, no startling or useful new ideas.
Just: "Everyone should use checklists, and here are fifty stories why."
More lively and fast-moving than you'd think a book about checklists could be.
Gawande speculates about why many people resist using checklists even though research has proven them effective.
One reason interested me especially - that they distribute authority within a team.
Many people find this type of authority hard to understand.
I've even heard people claim it's not "real" authority at all, and must ultimately result in either chaos or stultification.
But I think that people face an interesting challenge the 21st century of developing technologies and systems that enhance this type of distributed authority, to make it ever more effective and efficient.
In his third installment, and as the name implies; Atul presents a simple idea that could very well be a cure for human fallibility and an effective strategy to overcome failures.
The checklist.
While it is an obvious and rational solution to overcome the inherit ineptitudes of practicing medicine and mastering its complexities, it is a fairly underestimated tool and quite often forgotten.
However, interesting stories keep you entertained till the end, where you find the "Pièce de résistance." The story behind the WHO's safe surgery checklist http://www.nejm.org/doi/full/10.1056/...
He starts with an interesting anecdote of how aviation checklists got their start after test pilots crashed the "bomber that was too much plane for one man to fly".
He then goes on to give examples of people applying the use of checklists to all kinds of activities from surgery to investing.
His own hospital's use of checklists during surgery resulted in impressive gains in lives saved and fewer complications.
Overall it's a mildly interesting book, but it probably could have been about 50 pages shorter.
Even veteran doctors can forget simple things like washing ones hands, even though most people would expect them not too.
Gawande notes that when doctors and nurses were observed in their tasks, without running through any sort of physical checklist, mistakes were made a majority of the time!
These simple tools help make complex tasks, like flying a B-52 flying fortress, or how to deal with an occurring risk that is a rarity, into step-by step processes where cognitive memory is not required.
As Gawande notes, veteran employees, or skilled doctors or whathaveyou, may be reluctant to change like this.
I hate medical dramas, I can't keep my eyes on the screen if there is any sort of medical procedure happening on t.v. but I couldn't stop reading (to myself and whoever else happened to be around me at the moment) the details of how they accomplished what they did.I can't help but compare Gawande to Gladwell and Sacks, as they are all men that write popular sciencey type stuff.
Not fair, I know and I'll probably change my mind in a week but for now I've still got the seriously bad taste of that article in my mouth.bleh.Each time I've read something by Gawande I've walked away feeling equally amazed by and terrified of the medical world.*that was my Goodreaders engagement announcement by the way.
Make sure you put down "Read this book" on your checklist.One of the better and more practical business books have come across.Rock and rollers might appreciate the tributes to Van Halen's "No Brown M&Ms" policy. One finds it quite refreshing to hear David Lee Roth defend the policy in the name of logistics and supply chain management.Most of the examples come from the authoris experiences as a surgeon; nevertheless, he generates more interest on the subject and presents it more intelligently than the cable medical melodramas.
I think part of why I read all of his books was to absorb 1/3 of his greatness, sadly I only got about 0.000000000009%.What distinguishes Gawande from other non-fiction writers is his delicious, clear prose; he has the ability to make complex topics accessible.
I think most of the information in this book could be condensed into an online article.
And while this was interesting to read, the information in this book was of little use to me.
Nonetheless, I think if you are in medicine, aviation, or construction, then you will like this book.
The book really takes off after the first 50 pages or so. The author draws interesting parallels between the world of medicine and aviation, finance and construction – eventually concluding that something that seems as elementary and mundane as a checklist can be used as the ultimate tool of efficiency and even collaboration. I love the anecdotal style of writing which is comprehensive yet not boring at all 😊
More complex than the title suggests.
A manifesto on doing difficult, complex, absolutely vital things correctly as much of the time as possible.
I talked about this when I read his Better, but he's hitting really close to home with me on this stuff.
So how do you complete complex, circumstance-dependent tasks on a time limit and do it right every time?
But this book is about how you get really close.Smart, revelatory, focused.
No, self, there is no such thing as 'smart enough' not to need a checklist.
Good book about how we do madly complex tasks – vascular surgery, building a skyscraper -- correctly.
And checklists.
Having worked for decades in a field where checklists are absolutely critical I was astounded that the medical field only recognized the importance of these simple tools when they were shoved down their collective throats.
At least checklists have finally found their way into MD-land.
Medicine can only be better for finally adopting 20th century project management tools, albeit at the end of the century & beginning of the next!
Interesting details on how the checklist came into being, its different variations given by the real life examples mostly from healthcare and air force.Didn't work that well and got bored with the repetitive examples and statistics on how a checklist helps.Agreed how handy checklists are in this era of overflowing information and complexity.This book propagates checklist like every damn process in the world could be improvised using a checklist.Would have been interesting to add scenarios differentiating when a cheklist should be used and when avoided.Only helped to mark another non-fiction off my checklist -___-
What I liked about this was how personal and specific it was. It spoke of a life that was saved in an operation he performed when a checklist alerted them there was not enough emergency blood in the OR. He pointed to anecdotes and statistics regarding his work with the WHO in creating and implementing a series of checklists. He speaks to master creators of airline checklist about what makes a good checklist and a bad one.Exceptional. http://gawande.com/the-checklist-mani...Gladwell's review of the bookA link which mentions the problems of cheap solution ie: checklistshttp://freakonomics.blogs.nytimes.com...
The book began, and all I could think was "Why so many stories about surgeries going wrong and people dying in pools of blood and vomit?!!??!
This is horrific!!!"Of course, it all comes full circle, and the main narrative of the book becomes the story of how to use checklists to stop exactly these things happening.I use some checklist myself for work, but the main new lesson this book laid out was how it's an amazing way for new teams to gel when beginning complex and complicated tasks.
If I work closely with groups of people in the future I'll certainly keep these ideas in mind.
Skiles would go to the engine failure checklists to see if he could relight the engines...In the end, Skiles managed to complete a restart attempt on both engines, something investigators later testified to be "very remarkable" in the time frame he had--and something they found difficult to replicate in simulation.In conjunction with WHO, Gawande decides to make a checklist for ORs. It is an abysmal failure, too long, too complicated, during the test drive in his own O.R. everyone including the patient hates it.By the end of the day, we had stopped using the checklist.
Boorman puts him in a flight simulator (I love this part, Gawande isn't a pilot and it doesn't sound like he has ever even flown in anything smaller than a 737) and throws an exploding cargo door at him on takeoff.
