https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/32437.The_Face
I really want to like Dean Koontz. His writing is exciting and I'm turning pages with my heart pounding. I've only read a couple of his books and the endings all feel like he just stopped giving a shit right before. It's like having amazing sex and right before the end, he gets up to watch tv and eat potato chips.
"The Face" is one of Koontz's very best books.
Channing Manheim known as "The Face" is one of most desired movie stars - and he has one great enemy.Former detective Ethan Truman, who now works as a security chef for the Manheim estate senses great danger that lurks for the actor and his son - Fric.I thoroughly enjoyed this book.
It has stron, and what's more believeable characters (a welcome change from all the cardboards).
Plus there's no forced romance, because there's no female character.
It's a great book, pages turn themselves almost on their own."The Face" is severly underrated.
This time, our tale revolves around an actor, the Face, his son, often left to his own devices, and the head of security of the estate, whose childhood best friend has recently died.As Fric, the Face's son, begins getting calls from a man he dubs "Mystery Caller," to a number where *69 only results in animal breathing, and Ethan, the head of security, stumbles through mind-blowing experiences (I don't want to ruin it for you), you can't help but be dragged in.I don't recommend this for reading before bedtime, as it can lead to some very strange dreams, but if you like fast-paced psychological thrillers, this is definitely one to look into.
His security chief, Ethan Truman, is an ex detective who is now hoping to hunt down who is after Manheim's 10 year old son Aelfric (otherwise known as Fric) (I misread that name as Eric like ten times when I first started this book) who is getting mysterious phone calls.
He has a sad story (like most of Koontz's heroes in his books, he is a widower) but I just didn't care.
We hear about Ethan's dead wife Hannah a lot and apparently she was perfect (as the dead wife's or alive heroines are in Koontz's books).
Ένα νερόβραστο θρίλερ, στο οποίο ο Τζόκερ (του Dark Knight) από τα Λιντλ κερνάει σε παιδάκια καραμέλες με LSD, βουλώνει δημόσιες τουαλέτες και προσπαθεί να απαγάγει τον γιο του Τομ Κρουζ. Όλα αυτά για να κάνει το δυτικό πολιτισμό να καταρρεύσει.Στο ενδιάμεσο ένας κακομοίρης σωματοφύλλακας του μικρού προσπαθεί να τον σταματήσει ενώ συμβαίνουν διάφορα περίεργα, γιατί (view spoiler)[είναι Χριστούγεννα και οι άγγελοι τον ανασταίνουν όποτε τα κακαρώνει. (hide spoiler)]Προσπεράστε...
** Second Read Febrary 1, 2016 - Koontz group **The 6 black boxes found and mentioned in the plot contain: Corky's ladybugs, snails, foreskins, scrabble tiles, guide dog book and Fric's "the eye in the apple".
Ethan gets 6 black boxes with messages from a "ghost" (Ethan's dead childhood mobster friend "Dunny" Eugene Whistler) that will be hard for you to figure out.
The end with Hazard & "Corky" is not a surprise.
The book will keep you interested with mystery of black boxes, the phone calls and then Corky's crazy mind.
This is one of my favorite Koontz books and I'm glad I took the time to squeeze it in right now.
It's also one of the ones that is an example of how often his books are misshelved!
But beneath, around, above, and all through are the usual comfort moods I get from Koontz: Hope, love, mystery, and wonder.
In this one we also have a 10 year old boy that's very lonely.
I love the way that Koontz writes kids anyway, and the lonely ones are some of the best.
I had heard a lot about Dean Koontz and I wanted to give his books a try.
The situations made sense and at times, I could feel the words come to life around me (not in a creepy Inkheart kind of way, of course).
He was one of the most likable characters in the book.
The  helicopter  flying machine part in the last hundred or so pages was rather unbelievable.I won't spend much time describing the plot of the book because it is supposed to be a thriller.
I couldn't finish this. I LOVE Dean Koontz, but I just could not get into the stinky cheese man. I wish I could write something a little more profound than this but,....this book was plain old stupid. Dean's weakest work by far.
Dean Koontz-YüzUzun zamandır Dean Koontz okumuyordum. Açıkçası Dean Koontz’u King kadar sevmesemde ve çoğunlukla ders veren didaktik yönünü ve mutlu sonlarını sevmesemde hakkını vermeliyim ki kitapları oldukça sürükleyici, gerilimi çok iyi verebilen ve orijinal konularıyla okumaktan vazgeçemediğim bir yazar. Bu kitabı da nispeten iyi diyebileceğim kitaplarından biri. Gizem-gerilim-macera türünde bir kitap. 566 sayfa değil de 400 sayfa olsaymış ve sonundaki çatışma sahneleri daha ayrıntılı ve güzel işlenebilseymiş herkese rahatlıkla önerebilirdim. Bu haliyle ise meraklılarına öneriyorum sadece.
This is a perfect story, almost as perfect as they come, it even outdoes my faves such as 'Whispers', 'Intensity', 'Sole Survivor' and 'From the Corner of His Eye'.
And yes, there is a large cast, but not as large as in, say, 'Strangers' or 'From the Corner of His Eye'.This is a darn good novel; it has everything, love, horror, terror, hope, redemption...and in spite of the 600+ pages it is a fast read, immensely gripping, and not easily forgotten (but I'm also one of those guys who found that 'Mulholland Drive' has lots of meaning, and who never have found a movie going by so quickly).Highly, highly, highly recommended.
So well written, so intense, and it had a bit of supernaturality that i thought was great.
This is a book that could be a bit confusing if you aren't really paying attention to what you are reading, and it's a bit long (it's 650 pages!) but it's totally worth reading.
The last couple hundred pages are extremely good, I read through 2 classes, I was so wrapped into it.
The plot is very well thought out.
The characters were very well thought out.
And Ethan and Fric were pretty awesome too.
even though Fric was the son of Manheim, Fric should have been Ethan's son.
Ethan could have been such a cool dad.
I am a Dean Koontz fan who has enjoyed some great books but this book did nothing for me.
A 2-star "it was ok" is all I can give this book.
It has some entertaining parts which is why I gave it more than one star.
I enjoyed the last 40 pages the most as the story came to a powerful close which many Koontz books do.
I am still a Koontz fan and I have a lot of his catalog to read but I think I will take a break from his books for a little while after this one.
I was drawn to some of the vividly-portrayed characters, particularly the son of the famous actor whose life is in jeopardy, and the author managed to have me breezing through chapters to discover their fates.On the negative side, I had to breeze through chapters too rapidly to make this a satisfying read.
It has been a long time since I read a Dean Koontz novel, but the themes of this one were instantly-recognizable: the virtues of faith over disbelief, the evil of philosophies not of the religious variety, the moral degeneracy of academics.
The novel would be stronger if he stripped it of the more overt moralizing and let the characters actions speak for themselves.
This book took ages to get going, but once it did, it was totally worth the wait.
It's scary to think that people like Corky exist.
I don't understand why someone would be like that, ignoring the big things like murder etc it was the little things that creeped me out the most, that someone would try and ruin things for other people for no good reason.
I loved Ethan and Fric, great characters.
I would have liked to have seen how Fric interacted with his father though, Dunny was also a great character.
I like his scenes.
Listened to this- 16 CD's! But this is a good one! - and no Golden Retrievers! (well, just a cameo with a dog from another book)
This book is a long and boring saga of an unbelievable villain trying to kidnap a stupid and irritating child for no reason and a guardian angel who is pulled into the picture, again for no reason, and a security guard who tries to save the situation.
Really Koontz, it takes five minutes to look it up on Wikipedia.
This is the most uneducated depiction of any political ideology I have read in a long time, especially unbelievable in what is supposed to be a thriller novel!
Racism isn’t real, it’s imaginary and thought up by people who don’t have purpose and meaning.
Will finish it later
He has his work cut out for him as Fric, The Face’s 10-year-old son, begins receiving eerie phone calls from “Moloch, the devourer of children.” He tells Fric that must find a hiding place in his father’s mansion- somewhere that no one will ever find him- because the ‘beast in yellow’ is coming.Unlike most thrillers, the antagonist in The Face is not at all mysterious.
Koontz introduces Corky Laputa, the ‘beast in yellow’ that Fric is warned about, early on in the novel and explains his motivations and actions.
The heart of the novel is the growing relationship between Ethan and Fric.
Yes, I'm a total nerd for words and I get excited when I recognize one of those isms.In The Face, a major portion of the story revolves around a 10 year old boy.
To see the macho, hard hearted, worn down man transform into a vulnerable, caring, believing individual is one of my favorite parts of Koontz's story.Koontz's ability to bring in a greater meaning to an ordinary situation is also what continues to draw me back to his books again and again.
He continually reminds me to look for the spiritual in the everyday.The Face draws you in and holds you on edge until the end.
I can't believe I gave this book such a high rating since I am not a reader of "psychological thrillers" (I guess that's what you could call this genre).........but this book had me at page one.
It is a mix of mystery, horror, and the supernatural and it meshes just right to actually make it almost believable.
It also has somewhat religious overtones which just add to the appeal.
This is one of those books that either gets a high rating or a low one.....nothing in-between for this strange tale which will have you looking over your shoulder at the closest mirror.
How funny I would come to really like a kid named Frik.
You feel sorry for the guy, living without hearing from his mother for years, and his father being the hottest star alive...Frik is always measuring himself against his dad and coming up skinny, asthmatic and geeky.
Ethan is the widowed homocide cop now working as security for The Face-the big star.
Some elements of this story have been used by Koontz before...but I would say the level of profundity, of profoundness is up to this point in my reading of Koontz unrivaled.
Worth the read just for that alone!
Reading this book makes you wonder if Dean Koontz has not just watched Se7en and then felt compelled to write his own supernatural version of it.
The story line is stupid, and none of the characters bar one, who is gruesomely tortured by the villain - arouses any liking or sympathy throughout the story.
Except for the one exception previously mentioned, I actually wanted the villain to come out victorious, and this, I'm sure, was not what Koontz was aiming for.
So I deem this book a failure, and a terrible mistake if you are looking for your first taste of Dean Koontz...
This novel is like a hand closed around your throat, one that slowly tightens until you find yourself gasping for air.
As the various threads come together—a murderous devotee of chaos and his various victims, an asthmatic geeky boy yearning for love and normalcy, a desperate haunted cop, his tough-as-nails partner, and the walking dead—the reader is forced to the edge of his seat while the nail-biting intensity rachets its screws ever tighter.
Even when we are faced with the stark reality that innocence is no protection against evil, we are granted the effervescent hope that there are angels who watch out for us.
I like what has been called "the new" Koontz and this is a good read.
(unfortunately a few books lately haven't really been up to Mr. Koontz's other works...I suppose it can happen to anyone).
This is an enjoyable read and only misses my "favorites" list by a tiny margine.
After all, they can't all be the "favorite".Fric is a lonely young man "imprisoned" in extreme comfort, given practically any and everything he wants...so far as "things" are concerned, by his father's fame.
Fric's father "The Face" an incredibly good looking celebrity has no idea how bad things are getting on the "super-natural" front.
This is the worst Koontz book I have ever read. I think it's not going anywhere and I feel like I have read the same thing over and over. This is a terrible book. Three years in the making. I am not going to finish it. It's that bad.
This was the first Koontz novel I ever read and I still hold it as one of my favorites! What a crazy tale! You gotta love the supernatural!
Some great use of a mirror in this story. I felt like this was a bit of a return to form for Koontz and liked this better than the few that came before it.
Koonts likes to take our fear of the unknowable eternity and add a glimmer of possibility to most of his stories. Who doesn't want a bit of hope?
I will give this 3.5 stars.The main story line is crazy man seeks to kidnap/torture/kill child of the most famous male actor. The story takes place in a 3 day period leading up to Christmas. Chapters are short, which I like. You get many viewpoints, some more expected than others. I enjoyed it, but for me, some of it could have been streamlined for a shorter story and been good. This is not a horror story, but more of a thriller. It also makes you think people, that are stranger than fiction, could be out there ready to cause chaos.
