https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/68210.Gilead
If Robinson’s territory here is the spiritual life of one man in particular, her thematic concern is how we in general can face the ends of our lives without despair or resort to existential reframings of the problem—how we can face the prospect of death, in fact, with quiet gratitude and even joy.
Robinson’s portrayal of religion is especially deft; instead of opiate or panacea, her narrator’s Christianity serves as a lens, providing a stasis and a vocabulary through which the novel can wrestle with its concerns.Ultimately, the quiet conclusions that Gilead seems to favor—that the experience of existence is one that we should treasure as a gift, that we too often lose sight of the immense beauty of the world amidst our quotidian bustle, that love and charity have the power to remake lives—are neither religious nor secular.
I'm sure it's all very nice for some people, but I am way too big of a jerk to enjoy something like that."Well, let me tell you something, friend: I am a pretty big jerk myself, and I loved it.
But I really do recommend it to people who (like me) are not religious, and find others' faith difficult to understand.
You only need to suspend some judgment you hold about religion, and take the protagonist's faith the way you would another belief or experience a fictional character might have that's diffferent from your own.
Gilead is the story of a Protestant pastor, the Reverent Ames, who, in the midwestern town of Gilead of about 1950 or so, writes to his then seven-year-old son.
This to my mind is great writing and no merely clever metafictional trickery can ever supplant it.Christianity is not entirely the point of the story.
Faith here is the means by which Marilynne Robinson shows us her characters' humanity, the tenuousness of their existence, their lives of suffering and loss, impermanence and fleetingness.
My point is that it would be a mistake to read it solely as a Christian novel.

So, the book talks about Rev Ames relationships to his own father and grandfather (both also parsons) who are both long since passed away, as well as other anecdotes about how he met his wife and some of the philosophical and spiritual questions with which he struggles.In these musings, he speaks of his grandfather who lost an eye in the Civil War and fled Iowa at one point across the border into Kansas.
I'll close with this beautiful passage from towards the end of the book which, I think, sums up what Ames really is saying throughout:"Though I must say all this has given me a new glimpse of the ongoingness of the world.
This is not a review.
I wrote something that aspired to be a review but fell short.
In the end all you really need to know is that I loved it.
I finished it standing in line at the grocery with tears running down my face because it was that beautiful.
It’s the ruminations of a man at the end of his life, it’s confession, it’s revelation, it’s a parable in a parable.
It’s hopeful.
Read it.I found this quote written on a scrap of something in my purse.
"I know more than I know and must learn it from myself."
My 4 year old son is going to die...sometime in the future, like me--wishfully long after me--and we'll have no more time to talk.
The entire book is a beautiful confessional of short thoughts on life, entries almost like one of his thousands of hand-written sermons bundled up with twine in the attic.
210)And so, 4 year old son of mine, if this review happens to be one of the written items you use to piece together a picture of your father, let me tell you this: I love you.
Dear Son:The Too-Little-Too-Late Dilemma of Marilynne Robinson’s Gilead It’s deceptively tempting to approach a book like Marilynne Robinson’s Gilead, and see only the main character’s theological musings. After all, in a novel about an old man reminiscing about faith and family, there’s a plethora of weighty spiritual content; everything from careful exegesis of Genesis 22 to references to Karl Barth’s Epistle to the Romans. Needless to say, this is no simple “I remember when…” fable of love an
By writing the story as a last testament in-progress, Robinson has created an utterly passive character, a true bystander of the life he is narrating.
I have not written much of Ames and Jack Boughton, mostly because the character was introduced far too late in the novel to bear the climactic significance it was clearly supposed to have.
The richer story to be told here is that of an old man opening his heart through action and engagement with his community, after a long life of loneliness.
This novel made my heart ache; wanting the silent men in my life to get up from their journals, and actually say what they’re thinking.
traditional narrative is replaced by the writings of one John Ames, a dying 77 yr old congregationalist minister – future readings intended for his young son in the form of warnings, anecdotes, memories, lessons, and personal thoughts mostly on god, existence, belief, morality, and family.
Gilead is a gift for the lover of literature and for the religious person and perhaps, more than anyone, for the open minded skeptic.John Ames writes: I have always wondered what relationship this present reality bears to an ultimate reality… Our dream of life will end as dreams do end, abruptly and completely, when the sun rises, when the light comes.
I can’t believe we will forget our sorrows altogether.
Old reverend John Ames writes a long farewell letter to his seven-year old son after he is informed of a cardiovascular problem that will eventually take his life.
What starts as a chronicle of his childhood memories and the life stories of his father and grandfather, also pastors, and the ongoing tensions between them about the use of religion to serve their ideals, progressively becomes an introspective, fragmented confession where the old man reveals his soul to the reader, but mostly, to himself.
آن را خواندم، و تحت تأثیر عشق و گرمایی که در داستان وجود داشت، قرار گرفتم، و با مطالعه بیشتر، درباره خانم «رابینسون» متوجه شدم در دنیا ایشان را به عنوان نویسنده ای میشناسند که قلمی وزین و پرقدرت دارد.
در متن اصلی هیچ زیرنویسی وجود ندارد، ولی من هنگام ترجمه، بهتر دیدم مواردی را در پاورقی بیاورم تا مفهوم روشنتر شودآیا تاکنون مترجمی بجز شما آثار رابینسون را به فارسی ترجمه کرده است؟تا آنجا که میدانم، و در این باره در سایت «کتابخانه ملی» جستجو کرده ام، یک نفر، چند سال پیش «گیلیاد» را ترجمه کرده، اما نمیدانم به چه دلیل کتاب چاپ نشده، و ناشر انصراف داده استژانر آثار این نویسنده خاص است و رمانهایش، معمولا کامل کننده آثار قبلی او هستند.
The framework of the "story" is a dying minister writing in his diary presumably for his now 7 year old son to read after his death.
I felt like the entire book was one run-on sentence - not because the sentences were lengthy - but rather because it was written as rambling musings of an old man I neither cared about nor related to.
If the story was more linear, the "journal" style mechanism that Marilynne Robinson used could possibly make the novel enjoyable.
Unlike the majority, I did not find the old man's reflections insightful - at all.
Minister John Ames' insistence on leading a virtuous life becomes a pain in the neck. His personal and circular logic goes nowhere, and his daily ministrations, well, you really couldn't give less a care about. And this is truly awful folks. These are very deep thoughts from father to son, directly from the death bed. & our main thought through this all becomes: Wow, dude's taking his awful sweet-ass time to die!
Having read Olive Kitteridge and this, I’ve come to the conclusion that the Pulitzer committee is looking for books about bumbling old people whose kids may or may not like them.
I just want them to stop talking about how bread was cheaper in their day, uphill both ways in the snow barefoot.It seems like there are two completely valid reasons this book would be a compelling read for a person.
I don’t really have anything to say about that or feel that way, but maybe the rambling nature of this book would hold some kind of charm if you felt like that.
Maybe if this old gentleman were my grandfather, I would feel more interested.
It's supposed to be the slow, insightful reflections of an old preacher writing a letter about his life to his son.
Actually, most of the book is so slow you feel like he's dying right then and there.
And indeed, all the big-name reviewers would have you believe that the text slows you down so you can savor each sentence and philosophical musing.
Well I'm here to tell you that the Emperor has no clothes and that the text slows you down because it is BORING.
Ames, after losing his first wife and child to a difficult labour, has remarried late in life to a much younger woman and so at the ripe old age of seventy six has a very young son who he realises he will not see grow to manhood.
The first half of the novel has a languid old world pace, brimming with tenderness and somewhat idealised musings on the beauty of life (the world appears glorious in the light of Ames’ imminent departure from it) and on family and the town of Gilead’s history.
I am so disappointed with this book. Having said that, I agree with all the reviews written about this highly acclaimed work stating, for example, that Gilead is a beautiful work – demanding, grave and lucid… Robinson’s words have a spiritual force that’s very rare in contemporary fiction - The New York Times Book Review.  So serenely beautiful, and written in a prose so gravely measured and thoughtful, that one feels touched with grace just to read it…A triumph of tone and imagination [and a]
Having said that, I agree with all the reviews written about this highly acclaimed work stating, for example, that Gilead is a beautiful work – demanding, grave and lucid… Robinson’s words have a spiritual force that’s very rare in contemporary fiction - The New York Times Book Review.
So serenely beautiful, and written in a prose so gravely measured and thoughtful, that one feels touched with grace just to read it…A triumph of tone and imagination [and a] spiritual journey no reader will want to miss - The Washington Post Book World.
And I will do this by reading Housekeeping, Robinson’s first novel and highly acclaimed in 1980.
Ames is a preacher, and much of what he discusses is couched in terms of his religion and his beliefs, but what he is facing and has faced in life is so universal that even an atheist might relate.
This is a complex book that delves very deeply into humanity and the intricacies of human relationships and how our views of one another can be skewed even when we come from a place in a good heart.I loved the soft, loving voice of this character and his desire to be open-minded and kind, even when he felt threatened and disconnected.
The first-person voice took me right inside his mind and heart and I felt I knew him in all his glories and faults.
Gilead is a book that I'm conflicted over having read so speedily, as I couldn't stop reading, while at the same time wanted to savor and absorb more slowly every thought and prayer and beautiful moment it held.I understand the praise for this book.
Gilead is a book about love and hope.
And though I read it so quickly, I'm thankful for the time I had to completely immerse myself in this man's mind, in his relationship to his wife and son, and his sage reflection on life, love, spirituality, forgiveness, and hope.
Forget your theology books and forget your "Christian Fiction".
If you really want to get inside the head of someone with a deep, abiding faith in God, you must read "Gilead".
Reading this book is like floating in a pool on a warm summer day.
I truly love this book.
There a couple of people I want to pass my copy on to, but I'm afraid I'll never see it again.
I think this is one of the rare books I will be reading again and again.
I hated the main character, an old whiny preacher who is writing down the story of his life for his young son.
This man incarnates everything I despise about religious blindness and righteousness.
Even when the preacher tries to be honest, he always assumes that his absolute truth and morality can't be touched.
He ultimately knows everything best, even though he might have made mistakes - sometimes, and for GOOD reasons, which he explains VERY carefully.If you accept Christian morality as a fact, then you may find comfort in this old man's rambling, otherwise it will just make you mad.
دیشب به تو گفتم ممکن است روزی بروم، تو گفتی کجا، من گفتم پیش خدا، تو گفتی چرا، گفتم چون پیر شده ام، گفتی فکر نمی کنم پیر شده باشی و دستت را در دستم گذاشتی و گفتی، خیلی پیر نیستیگیلیاد دومین رمان مریلین رابینسون است که در سال 2004 منتشر شد.
این رمان در سال 2005 جایزه پولیتزر و کانون منتقدان کتاب ملی را از آن خود کرد.
او این نامه ها را برای پسرش می نویسد و در آن داستان زندگی خود را روایت می کند زیرا می داند که پسر در آینده خاطره کم رنگی از پدر خواهد داشت.
Un'eredità.È vecchio e malato il pastore John Ames, ha settantasei anni e sta morendo.La sua eredità
Read a book that won the Pulitzer Prize.3.5 stars rounded upOk ya'll, this review is gonna get personal. It's the only review I think I can write right now, and this book gives me the perfect platform to do it. If you have a problem with personal reviews, don't read it I don't give a damn. There are a thousand thousand reasons to live this life, every one of them sufficient. This was my book club's selection for May. I've kind of been in a reading slump the past few months and just haven't been
I've been really busy with work and other adventures, and nothing seemed to grab me or hold my interest, and every single time I had a spare few moments to read, I decided to sleep instead.It happens.So I went to book club last Friday with only maybe 50 pages read, feeling that horrible shame that I let the ladies down, but filled with promises that I would read it soon.
John Ames is writing this knowing that his son will never really know him, and wants some kind of testament to his life, his love, his family, and his faith for his son to read some day to understand the father he never knew.
Reckoning with Jack Boughton almost becomes a final test for the old man; on the one hand, he recognizes his duties toward Jack, not only as the son of a good friend but also as a child of God, but on the other hand, he's dogged by what he considers his unfair and antagonistic feelings for the young man, which stem from a sordid incident in past.Although Ames, at the time of his writing, is occasionally troubled by feelings of inadequacy, I think he's what I'd call an exemplary Christian, and I certainly don't mean that it in an ironic or smug way.
Though I did end up reading the bulk of the book over two days, I’m sure that I could have spent hours giving thought to each of Reverend John Ames’ entries.
I don’t have any children yet, so the bulk of the novel that pertains to Ames’ son were beautiful, but not yet relatable.
This isn’t a gripe with the novel itself, only to say that repeat reading may deepen the experience.Gilead is formatted as a long letter written by the reverend to his young son when he finds out that he is terminally ill.
That should really speak for itself.___________________________12/1/07 I've been thinking and thinking about this book, so I find myself coming back to this review.The basic plot (such as it is - this is a character driven book in the most basic sense): An old preacher finds out that he is dying, and writes a journal/memoir to his seven year old son.
I thought it was so beautiful, the essence of what communion should be about.Which brings me to another thing I loved about the book: The strong sense of generations, the passing of love and knowledge and problems from father to son through the generations.
I very much enjoy philosophical novels, and in this novel, too, I found myself agreeing with many of the thoughts expressed by the old reverend, this for instance:My present bewilderments are a new territory that make me doubt I have ever really been lost before.But as these thoughts were more often clothed in a strict sense of faith, to my mind at least, I often didn’t feel they could be my thoughts.
A quote early on expresses my feelings about this, and John Amos’s own (talking about Feuerbach, a man whose books his brother has read, after which he left the small town of Gilead, considering it a backwater):Of course he thinks religion could just stand out of the way and let joy exist pure and undisguised.
This is an incredible book with some of the tenderest moments I've ever experienced.John Ames, a minister of the Congregational church, journals his thoughts on doctrine, religion, spirituality, love, the state of being and the miracle that is existence etc, as well as his past and the history of his family which is what basically forms the story.
After great loss and many years of loneliness, John Ames finds love and a son is begotten from it, ailing, aging and realising that he has little time to spend with his wife and child, he writes his journals as parting words of wisdom and knowledge for his son.Having been raised in a pastoral home myself, I found this book very interesting.
"Gilead" is one long letter from a father to his son.
The father, John, is an old reverend approaching death.
His son is only 7 years old as the letter is written, and therefore the letter becomes a writing of John's thoughts and worries that he feels like he needs to pass on to his son before he dies.
For some parts, this letter was really touching.
However, this letter is written by a reverend and it's very heavy on religion.
I don't mind reading about religion, but for long parts it became more of a reflection on how religion applies to life than it became about his story and life-journey.
