https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/7938057-journey-into-the-past
The introduction gives the complete plot and the story is told retrospectively from the opening scene, so I’m not giving a spoiler warning.
Set in 1914 right near the outbreak of World War I, a young chemical engineer and his employer’s wife fall in love.
NINE years later, after he has married and had kids in Mexico, and her husband has died back in Europe, he’s back!
The journey (the opening scene) seems to be their fulfillment: the endless “getting there;” the limbo of the unfulfilled promise.
Zweig had published it as a short story years earlier and this latest version with handwritten edits was discovered among his papers after his death.
Zweig casts a gimlet look in the dark depths of mind in recounting the story of Ludwig and his beloved with as much of a keen eye as he paints the shifting vistas of urbane, cosmopolitan Frankfurt to contrast it with rocky, wild terrain of rural Mexico across the span of a tumultuous decade all through which Ludwig – being the primary focus of our story - is in a painful negotiation with time and place to keep the flame of love burning for the woman left behind in Frankfurt.
Time and place, now and then, war and peace together pronounce the final verdict, however strong the love may be.
Dans le vieux parc solitaire et glacéDeux spectres cherchent le passé. I took this journey into the past through pages of scintillating scenes, symphonic sentences, and crystal-clear character-consciousness. From cover to cover I read, pausing only to eat and care for my sick Labrador. Into the past I went, with love and war and indiscretion and despondency and life and illness and all that happens in between. Whenever a book forces me to give it my complete attention, even at the risk of ignor
Into the past I went, with love and war and indiscretion and despondency and life and illness and all that happens in between.
Whenever a book forces me to give it my complete attention, even at the risk of ignoring my Virginia Woolf read, I know that it deserves all the love stars my reader heart can give.It’s in the way Zweig writes: soft, simple and supple—his words caress the senses.
What happens when life goes on, and time passes, but the love we’ve had for someone still remains?
23-years old, industrious Ludwig, from humble origins, finds pure, infallible love in the serene, jovial and compassionate wife of his wealthy but genial employer.
After nine years though, they come face to face once again and embark on a journey to rekindle their lost love.
It is often said that love blossoms in absence.
Does that love ever remain the same once usurped by the curse of absence?
Under the shadow of absence, the love sapling feels nourished and protected.
Zweig’s silken magic and profound insights place us in striking distance of Love and Absence.
Everything in its time, everything just right, never a false move, not one sleight of hand.” Having just spent hours editing a report I would very much like to have been gifted with even a fraction of Zweig’s literary brilliance, and his writing is sheer genius.The novella follows a love affair between Ludwig, a poor private secretary, and the lady of the house.
The more poignant and thoughtful passages dealt with the post-war experiences with Ludwig returning to Germany; can things still stay the same when war has interrupted our lives?
The Resurrected Master: The Subtle Fiction of Stefan Zweig, by Paul Bailey--Journey into the PastTranslator's Afterward, by Anthea Bell
In the old park, in ice and snow caught fastTwo spectres walk, still searching for the past. (33)I planned a review with all the things I didn't like and quotes to back them up. However, after contemplating these pages for awhile, I realized I couldn't. It is not Zweig's fault. I can't blame it on his writing, his idea and execution. I liked his lyrical prose and the psychological depth he gave to his characters, always haunted by their past. Past? “Nothing is lost, nothing is past” (20), he sa
I liked his lyrical prose and the psychological depth he gave to his characters, always haunted by their past.
Past?
I also liked how the characters' pure feelings for each other contrasted with the dark and confusing social context of those times.
So, this rating is based on what I felt while reading this novella.
By all means, read it yourself and form your opinion.
But I would like to keep playing chess for a little while longer, if you don't mind.
It is only temporary, to the lucky ones.
The lucky ones.
An ephemeral tragedy.
But a tragedy, after all.May 25, 14* Also on my blog.
Hasta bünyeye bir ilaçtır Zweig.
Uzun süre elime kitap alamıyor, hiç birşey okuyamıyorsam bile bir Stefan Zweig kitabı beni canlandırıp çabucak eski tempoma döndürebiliyor.
Yine öyle bir durgunluk dönemime denk gelen iyi ki de okumuşum dediğim bir kısa öykü oldu Geçmişe Yolculuk.
Zweig'in yine muhteşem psikolojik analizleri eşliğinde, imkansız gibi görünen bir aşkın öyküsünü okuyoruz bu kez.
Birbirlerine ilk aşık oldukları günün üzerinden tam 9 yıl geçmiş.
Araya önemli bir görev, farklı ülkeler, Birinci Dünya Savaşı ve başka insanlar girmişti fakat herşeye rağmen zaman bu iki insanı yeniden bir araya getirecek ve onları geçmişlerine doğru bir yolculuğa sürükleyecekti.Zweig bize yine az sayfada çok dolu bir hikaye anlatıyor.
I watched the excellent film adaptation of this last night and it reminded me how much I loved this novella. It’s such a tender and powerful account of enduring love. Ludwig is a young engineer, an orphan, who ingratiates himself with his elderly and ailing employer until he becomes his private secretary and moves into his home. Here he falls in love with his boss’ young wife. Before anything can happen between them his boss sends him to Mexico. Then World War 1 breaks out. A novel to warm the heart.
It seemed so simple at first – a brief tale of lovers pining for each other for 9 years, kept apart on separate continents by the outbreak of WWI; but it’s also about the love of and loss of country and innocence, and how “regular people’s” lives are changed irreparably.
There’s a particularly vivid scene towards the end when upon our protagonist’s return to a changed Europe, he strolls awkwardly with his beloved among swastika waving fascists during a rally, and he realizes that his love, his life, and his country are gone forever, never to return.
Viaje al pasado, 1929 Stefan ZweigNote to self: Si alguna vez sientes la necesidad de sentir, reflexionar o revivir pequeños retazos del pasado, lee Zweig. La pasión, la personificación de los sentimientos y la maestría en la escritura constituye el aura que inevitablemente envuelve la obra de Zweig...
Like Chess Story, another flowing, perfectly phrased, psychologically and historically charged, emotionally moving novella by Zwieg, this time about life before, during, and after WWI as Nazi shadows gather.
About thwarted desire, great physical distance followed by insurmountable temporal distance, lives interrupted by war, the pleasures of memory over the anxieties of the present, especially when the present involves goose-stepping rows of uniformed men parading through a quiet college town, Heidelberg, which I've visited and could imagine as clearly as Zweig's prose portrayed the path to the castle and the view of the river valley.
This book is a perfect example of why I love Goodreads so much.
If not for the comments and reviews of GR friends, I would never have discovered this book or the author, Stefan Zweig.
He died in 1942 and this book was unknown to English readers for decades after that.
It's the story of a love that goes to the depth of the soul, so deep that it consumes the heart and mind.
But the passion is of the heart and mind only, because it is unfulfilled in the flesh.
Once aware of their mutual feelings, they are seperated by an ocean, a war, and a decade of time.
Ludwig's interior conversation touches on things we can all relate to - the longing humans have for an idealized vision of life and love - even though the book was written almost 100 years ago.In the introduction, author Andre Aciman describes Zweig's writing as fluent.
I would add that his writing is fluid; fluid in the way he tells Ludwig's story and fluid in the way he plays with time in the structure of this beautifully written novella.
"Dans le vieux parc solitaire et glacéDeux spectres cherchent le passé" που θα πει: "μεσα στο παρκο το παλιο, το χιονισμενο και μοναχικο, δυο σκιες αναζητούν το παρελθον".
2 ψυχες που βρεθηκαν σε ευαλωτη και για τους 2 στιγμη , ερωτευτηκαν παραφορα και μετα -πριν καν σχεδον προλαβει να εκδηλωθει ο ερωτας τους -χωριζονται.
Περνανε 9 χρονια για να ξαναβρεθουν και ενω τα συναισθηματα ειναι ακομη εκει και για τους 2, κατι εχει αλλαξει, κατι ειναι διαφορετικο:ΕΚΕΙΝΟΙ..και οι 2 τους ειναι πλεον σκιες του παρελθοντος που προσπαθουν να ξαναερθουν στη ζωη αλλα οσα περασαν(δημιουργια νεας οικογενειας, θανατοι,πολεμος) δεν μπορουν παρα να τους εχουν αλλαξει.το συναισθημα δεν ειναι παντα αρκετο..υπεροχος Τσβαιχ κανει ψυχογραφημα-γεωτρηση ξανα σε 100 σελιδες..σεβασμος!
Elimdeki kitapları okuyamadığım, okuyabildiğimi de sindiremediğim bir dönemler icin hep yani basımda bir Stefan Zweig bulundururum. Bu kitaba da öyle bir zamanda basladım ve beni yine yanıltmadı, yine insan ruhunu siir gibi anlatıyor, yine okurken evet evet ben de aynen böyleyim cümlesini tekrarlatıyor. Aşkın çoğu zaman temiz yüzünü gösterse de Stefan Zweig, bu temiz yüzü de en temiz haliyle gösteriyor.
Zweig'ın bir draftını okuduk zira ölümünden sonra ortaya çıkmış bi metinde tanıyıp bildiğimiz o Zweig pek yoktu. Demek ki üzerinde biraz çalıştıktan sonra o kadar yoğun metinler ortaya çıkarıyormuş.
Zweig’ın aşkı anlatma şekline bayılıyorum!! Şimdiki aşklardan, aşklarımdan utanıyorum!!!
No está en la esencia de la naturaleza humana vivir sólo de recuerdos, y así como las plantas y cualquier ser necesitan la fuerza nutricia de la tierra y la luz del cielo filtrada una y otra vez, para que sus colores no palidezcan y sus cálices no se deshojen marchitos, también los sueños, que parecen no ser de este mundo, necesitan alimentarse de sensaciones, el sostén de la ternura y de lo palpable, de otro modo su sangre y su intensidad pierden brillo.Dans le vieux parc solitaire et glacéDeux Spectres cherchent le passé.
Φαν των ιστοριών αγάπης δεν με λες, όμως ο Τσβάιχ σε τούτη εδώ έχει ψυχογραφήσει και έχει αποδώσει με τόσο απλό και ξεκάθαρο λόγο τα συναισθήματα των ηρώων του που δεν έχω άλλη επιλογή από το να δηλώσω ξεδιάντροπα πως ναι μου άρεσε. Εξαιρετικός Τσβάιχ όπως πάντα.
Zweig'ı özlemiştim, benim için hoş bir tren yolculuğu arkadaşı oldu.
Για άλλη μια φορά θα εκφράσω την ευγνωμοσύνη μου και τη χαρά μου που εξακολουθούν να υπάρχουν καλαίσθητες εκδόσεις, πλήρεις στο αποτέλεσμα τους σαν αυτή τη νουβέλα απ’ τις εκδόσεις Printa – Ροές.
Με τον ένα ή τον άλλο τρόπο, όπως γράφει κι ο συγγραφέας δε μπορεί ένας νέος άνθρωπος που δεν έχει ζήσει τίποτα να ζήσει για πάντα με αναμνήσεις και να τροφοδοτεί τη ζωή του με ανούσιες συζητήσεις χωρίς ανταπόκριση με μια σκιά.
Και αυτό είναι βέβαια και το μεγαλείο κάθε ανεκπλήρωτου έρωτα, που τον βάζει σε ένα βάθρο πάνω απ’ όλους τους άλλους, πως δεν ολοκληρώθηκε.
Grata sorpresa... no conocía a este autor, pero me ha enamorado con su forma de escribir. Qué bien se expresa, que bonito todo!No me gusta el genero romántico (de hecho, lo detesto), pero esta historia me ha gustado. Quizá porque no es un amor empalagoso. El único pero... el final, me había hecho ilusiones...Conclusión: 3,5 estrellas sobre cinco porque me ha sorprendido para bien, y porque mis expectativas eran muy bajas, y me ha encantado leerlo.
A journey back to reclaim something which he always wanted,something that had been left unfinished in the past.
This is the story of a man who makes that journey.
With the beautiful interplay of shadows,the continuos hugging and separating,he understands that what he wants to reclaim with his old love is something that they have left long back,one can't simply blind oneself to the present and pretend to be like nothing has happened.
Sen muhteşem bir detaysın Stefan..''Hayır,bu kadın farklıydı. O,bambaşka, ihtirasa yer olmayan bir gök küreden ışık saçmaktaydı,bakir ve dokunulmazdı; öyle ki genç adamın en ateşli düşleri bile kadını soymaya cesaret edemiyordu.''
Δεν μπορώ να είμαι αντικειμενική με τον Τσβάιχ γιατί έχω δηλώσει πολλές φορές γκρούπι του! Είναι άλλη μια καταπληκτική νουβέλα ψυχογράφημα που αναλύει τον έρωτα και τα κοινωνικά στεγανά της προπολεμικής εποχής. Λατρεύω τον φαινομενικά απλοικό τρόπο που γράφει και κάνει το κείμενο να είναι διαχρονικό.
Τον Ιανουάριο του 2013 ήρθα για πρώτη φορά σε επαφή με το έργο του Στέφαν Τσβάιχ, διαβάζοντας ίσως το καλύτερο και πιο πολυδιαβασμένο βιβλίο του, με τον τίτλο "Σκακιστική νουβέλα".
Ο νεαρός Λούντβιχ, την στιγμή που αρχίζει να ερωτεύεται την γυναίκα του αφεντικού του και να το δείχνει έμπρακτα, υποχρεώνεται να ταξιδέψει για δουλειές στο Μεξικό, όπου θα πρέπει να ζήσει για δυο χρόνια.
Όμως, κάποια στιγμή ξεσπά ο πόλεμος, ο οποίος κρατά τον Λούντβιχ στο Μεξικό για πολλά περισσότερα χρόνια, μακριά από την αγαπημένη του.
Και γενικά η ιστορία είναι πλέον κλασική στο είδος της.
Dünya Savaşı her ne kadar da kitabın arka planında yer alsa da ben hikayeyi savaştan tamamen bağımsız olarak değerlendirmek isterim.
Aşıkların ayrı düşmelerine neden olan başka bir şey de olabilirdi.Dolayısıyla novellanın merkezinde yer alan kendisine cevap arayan sorular şunlar:Aşk ne kadar gerçektir?
Ömrü nedir?
Doğası nedir?
Zaman; insanları, duyguları, aşkları nasıl değiştirir?Şüphesiz bu soruların dünyadaki insan sayısı kadar yanıtı var.
Benim ve kanımca Zweig'in aklındaki yanıtı ise André Gide'nin kaleminden paylaşmak isterim;(view spoiler)[Nathanael, geçmişin sularını yeniden tatmayı arzulama.Nathanael, geçmişi gelecekte yeniden bulmaya çalışma sakın.
Dünya Nimetleri ve Yeni Nimetler (hide spoiler)]
"...Cependant l’amour ne devient vraiment lui-même qu’à partir du moment où il cesse de flotter, douloureux et sombre, comme un embryon, à l’intérieur du corps, et qu’il ose se nommer, s’avouer du souffle et des lèvres. Un tel sentiment a tant de mal à sortir de sa chrysalide, qu’une heure défait toujours d’un coup le cocon emmêlé et qu’ensuite, tombant de tout son haut dans les plus profonds abîmes, il s’abat, avec une force décuplée, sur un coeur terrorisé..." Magnifique!
i just had to raise the rating, because i find myself still thinking about it at odd times, far too often. maybe not a book for the young, it seems to work on natural human nostalgia of the mature to their past. i can still see the horror of the nazi marchers… so sad. if this reflects his mindset, this makes his suicide more understandable.
