https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/83398.The_Best_Man_to_Die
I have now read about 5 books in this series and although I have given them all a moderate rating I have nevertheless enjoyed them and generally feel the more I read the better they get with the main characters becoming a lot more familiar.This novel features a stag party on the eve of Jack Pertwee's wedding where Charlie Hatton his best man is murdered.
Charlie is a truck driver, but appears to be flush with money and is not shy when it comes to flashing it around.
He appears to have been involved in some shady business and truck hi-jacks are mentioned as a possible source of his extra income.
Another Inspector Wexford mystery, this one from 1970 ...You read this, with characters who are too materialistic, too made-up (the women) who are wholly narcissistic and who are all about what they own, how much of it and who's looking at it, and you might think, okay, this was written today.
Well the police care and Wexford starts his investigation with his sidekick, Burden, by interviewing a host of none-too-savory characters.
I'm slowly making my way through the Inspector Wexford books, and each one is an old-fashioned but not too old-fashioned pleasure: Rendell continues to use these as a showcase for the comfort-reading delight of blending Agatha Christie-style puzzle mysteries with a more real, textured world.
The style here is always restrained, Wexford and Burden always witty, warm, and suitably irritated, and the crimes always seem solvable by the attentive reader, but the world is recognizably ours--well, recognizably ours in the late sixties, at least--and full of complications, dark undercurrents, and well-developed characters.The Best Man to Die centers around the murder of Charlie Hatton, the best friend and best man of Jack Pertwee, the faithful and generous husband of his wife Lilian, and an absolute dick to literally everyone else.
I partly enjoyed this slice of social history but found Rendell's snide snobbery overbearing at times, particularly the way in which she portrays class.
That said, once we've wrestled with the social commentary, there's an intriguing story underneath with some excellent plotting to link a crude murder of a best man the night before a wedding with a car-crash, a burnt body and a woman just coming out of a coma.
That aside, this is a short, 'old-school' detective story: good plotting, interesting if jarringly unpleasant social commentary, and lots of old-fashioned detecting.
Interesting enough that I read it all through (I'm very often a skipper if a book isn't holding me, life-is-too-short) but I won't retain much of it, except perhaps the large-headed dentist who made the most expensive false teeth in England.
From the moment she described his big square head with hair to match I knew he was member of the unpleasant rich classes who feature so often in regional English crime.
Mind you, I don't think there's a single nice person in this book.
I guess crime fiction as a genre doesn't deal with the better side of human nature.
Whilst I've really enjoyed some of the author's books, this wasn't one of them. The plot was OK rather than gripping, and both Wexford and Burden were tiresomely pompous.
I have a bit of a cold and there is a bit of an ice storm going on, the perfect (for me) excuses/reasons to sit more of less comfortably at home re-reading a partially remembered classic mysteries by Ruth Rendell.
This was not one of her absolute best but still quite good; Wexford and Burden are faced with the death of a man almost everyone liked, other than the few citizens of Kingsmartin who really disliked him.
None of them, of course, were the killer although each of them had both opportunity and, if strong antipathy is reason enough to kill, motive.
Enjoyable murder mystery.Narrator Robin Bailey.Not a fan.Mild Foul Language.
In this tale, a fairly mild, tavern stag party on the eve of Jack Pertwee's wedding is marred to say the least by the murder of his best man (and great friend) Charlie Hatton.
Whether the print space devoted to this side issue comes to bear on the Hatton affair was yet another angle of the mystery for most of the book.
We suspect from Rendell's outstanding reputation that her more recent works might be better indicators of her craft, but her 1969 "Best Man To Die" is little more than a couple hours of modestly pleasant pastime.
It essentially destroyed the story.Recall that in the beginning the aunt misidentified the dead girl from the car wreck because she was hideously burnt in the crash and, it is implied, was found in the car along with the deceased driver.
Then, much later, a work acquaintance of the deceased is able to identify her from the remains of her charred and burnt stockings.Then we're told the dead girl wasn't in the crash at all.
She was thrown onto the road by the murderer.
The stockbroker's car swerved to avoid her and ran off the road and caught fire.
This book was written 40 years ago, but it's still a great read.
I love Rendell's Inspector Wexford series.
Her mysteries are so well written, they practically read themselves.
In the past, many of the older books in the Wexford series haven't been available at the library, so I was thrilled to find this reissued paperback in the "new books" section.
This is a short one (just 200 pages), but you actually get two mysteries playing out at the same time and, as always, the witty and endearing musings of Chief Inspector Wexford are an added treat.
Not the best Wexford; in fact, he is almost unlikable in this book as is Shelia. The mystery - three bodies no less - is not really all that interesting. Rendell's word play and writing is great, but not the best Rendell either.
Not one of her best. It's confusing and she's a bit sloppy in building the solution to the case.
All his friends from the local darts clubs are there, but his best man hasn’t yet shown up, Charlie Hatton.
Charlie and Jack have been lifelong friends, but Hatton has been off driving his lorry and suffered a late return.
The party finally breaks up and Charlie and Jack walk partway home together through the park.
There are lots of potential suspects, but Inspector Wexford starts to focus on where Charlie managed to get hold of so much money – not just the money he flashed around in the pub, but the money he used to buy his new false teeth, and the money he lent Jack as a deposit on his new apartment.
6 Hours 5 MinsDescription: Jack Pertwee was getting married in the morning.
Charlie Hatton drove his lorry eleven hours down from Leeds just to be there.
Charlie was Jack's best friend and he would be his best man.
When the two parted at the Kingsbrook bridge, Jack felt as though his life was just beginning.
But for Charlie Hatton, life was about to end.Detective Chief Inspector Wexford wondered why the fatal Fanshawe car accident kept upsetting his concentration on the Hatton murder.
Fanshawe had been a wealthy stockbroker, Charlie Hatton a cocky little lorry driver with some illegal dealing.
Chief Inspector Wexford, who turns up again in many later books, unwinds the complex series of events that led up to the murder.I adore all of Ruth Rendell's novels, as she skillfully draws the reader into the mind of her protagonists, and at the same time paints vivid pictures of the milieu in which the plots take place.
In each one, the motives of criminals are laid bare, so that each of her novels become studies of good and evil, of the turns and twists of the human mind and human nature in daily life.Ruth Rendell is possibly the finest mystery writer writing today - (in the opinion of many book critics).
Whether he’s complaining about the case, his daughter, his daughter’s dog or boyfriend, the new lift or knocking his assistants down a peg or two, he’s a delight.The period setting and social realism plays nicely here and Randell has an eye for social quirks and empathy in spades.
We get to witness some real detective work and thinking from Wexford making for a satisfying denouement (even if he does ultimately figure it out while stuck in a lift).If this is a sign of what’s to come then I’m keen to keep reading.
I don’t read detective stories all that often, as most are slightly disappointing to me. But occasionally I pick one up, which is how I came to read Geknipt voor lijk.This one was alright, no more no less, although I must say I liked the televison series better than the book and while reading, I kept seeing George Baker and Christopher Ravenscroft :-) which helped in this case, as it made me visualize the story a bit more, as the writing itself just didn't do it for me (but you can get used to just about anything...).
Not my favorite, but still a fun read.
Not as gripping as the prior book, but I didn't see the solution coming as it did. I enjoy seeing prior characters named, but earlier books need not be read to enjoy this one.
A very well put together mystery. Rendell gives us lots of little clues and spins them into a fine story. She does a fine job in describing each of the main characters. I like this series a lot.
Very clever. Couldn't possibly guess the victim or the murderer.
Wexford's wry humor is delightful. I'm seriously addicted to these mysteries.
I was 22 when this was written, and I can still remember the social aspects of the time; smoking just about everywhere, even in hospitals, and women looking to their husbands for the household money.
My father retired from the police as a Detective in 1971, and I'm pretty sure he never finished any Biblical quotes appropriate to his cases that his boss might have thrown at him.
Since it's pretty certain that none of his colleagues, either, had the benefit of a University education, I'll just have to accept that the Brits are ahead of us there.
Or were, at that time.
2 ✨I dedicated all the weekend to finishing this book.
It did a good job of putting me to sleep when I couldn't calm :)The beginning was veeeeery boring, I almost DNF.But then I had to do some gardening and picked it up.The plot accelerates after the tedious start and it's getting even interesting in the end.
But I didn't like any of the characters - almost all of them were angry and miserable :/ Thus the atmosphere of the book is negative and rueful.
However I liked the name of the another detective by this author - The Master of the Moor.
Wexford and Burden are investigating the murder of best man to be Charlie Hatton the eve of the wedding of his best friend Jack Pertwee. Charlie is on his way home from the stag do at the local Darts Club when he is murdered in the field.Whilst Charlie seems the life and soul of the party, it becomes evident that deep down he wasn't as popular as outwardly appeared. With a weekly wage of £20 everyone is stunned as to how he is permanently flush with cash. A good story involving lorry hijacking and recommended as a read
At times this early Wexford novel reads like Dorothy L. Sayers' Lord Wimsey books. Somewhat episodic and quirky. Rendell comments on the usual greed and envy, class division and the joyless drudgery of a large working class family. Elevator regulation in 1969 didn't seem to include ventilation...read and find out.
The Lorrie DriverNot up to her usual standards I feel. Inspector Wexford is, of course, a plodding but intuitive detective who works until he gets his man. But the author does write novels that you don't put down until you reach the end.
This is one of Ruth Rendell's early Inspector Wexford stories. It's good but I feel that her later books are better. It is still worth reading though as a not so good Ruth Rendell book is far superior to many crime fiction books I have read recently.
Home TruthsA novel that reminds you of the televised Wexford, always pictures from in your mind, a good storyline with characters that are set in a time gone by and are so well detailed to be truly believable.
