https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/769697.Party_Going
In the end, she is just a bit too weak to join the party when the fog dissolves on the last pages.As for further action, it consists in a rich young man's choice of women, leading to various bedroom scenes without inappropriate behaviour - if you do not count tiring dialogue.
It also makes one curious to read Henry Green's novel Nothing as it seems rather impossible to fill two hundred pages with anything more appropriately called "NOTHING" than what (not-)occurs in "PARTY GOING".It is absolutely charming non-action, though, and the characters are masters of nothing-doing, so the party-going (or not-going, as the case may be) is really secondary, as far as their Living and Loving is concerned.Recommended!
and off they go, the pretty young things, the butterflies, brainless and heartless and full of their excruciatingly minuscule plans and ambitions. lacking any true purpose in their movements, any depth in their thoughts. even butterfly lives have more meaning! and to see them off: an old wounded pigeon, barely conscious, immobilized by her spinsterish neuroses and an unwise helping of whiskey. the butterflies fly about her, scarcely seeing her and certainly not understanding her ways. how could
and off they go, the pretty young things, the butterflies, brainless and heartless and full of their excruciatingly minuscule plans and ambitions.
lacking any true purpose in their movements, any depth in their thoughts.
even butterfly lives have more meaning!
the butterflies flutter to and fro, up and down and across, thinking that their little hothouse is the whole wide world.
Henry Green tracks every small movement, each feint and barb, every blinding bit of quickly shut-down anger, every muffled explosion when some sad person tries to stake a claim then dies just a wee bit on the inside as their barely conceived plots and shallow facades crumble away.
There is also the dead pigeon which the aunt picks up and washes before she is taken ill; she carries it wrapped in brown paper.Green plays with space; familiar space becoming unfamiliar and threatening, members of the group losing and finding each other in the station and occupying the same space at different times before they all move above the familiar space to unfamiliar rooms.The sense of oddness is heightened by the fog with the faces of the crowd having "pale lozenged faces" (as one critic points out, very like Munch's The Scream).
a re-reading.Fog was so dense, bird that had been disturbed went flat into a balustrade and slowly fell, dead, at her feet.reading Henry Green is like a dream, even what should be tedious, the game playing, teasing and mocking among the vapid rich: the wonderful few, Max with his three suitors at his back, beauty rising from the bath, always the crowd outside emphasising their special-ness.
And every few pages a passage that leaves you floating, touched; like Amabel, Green flirts and teases with you, wooing all the time.
A novel about some Bright Young Things getting stuck at the train station, waiting for the London fog to lift, so they can get their party going. Reminded me a bit of Vile Bodies in the way it mocks and prods at the pettiness and soullessness of these dreadful spoilt rich people, in contrast to the masses huddled together on the platforms below. I actually find Henry Green quite tricky to read, i'd forgotten this, i mean it's almost as if he writes sentences in a deliberately ass-backwards way just to put you all out of whack, the modernist sod.
For upstairs/downstairs relief, Green's thwarted traveling party occasionally looks out the window at the masses of frustrated commuters pouring onto the platform below and wonders if their personal attendants are managing to keep their luggage safe from the throng's grasping hands.Party Going is a short novel, whimsically and artfully written, that reads more like a short story.
They are like a group of seals tossing balls of plot from nose to nose, barking with pleasure and generally being impervious to what any outside observer might make of them.This is an antic book full of Green's peculiarly effective dramatizations of wooing and wounding.
The titles are intriguing because they are mostly one-worded titles such as "Loving," "Living," "Concluding," and the intriguing title of them all, "Nothing." I started my Henry Green by reading "Party Going." It's a very strange book.
While reading the novel, I got the impression perhaps these people are dead, and they are just waiting at the hotel/station till they decide to either go to hell or heaven.
There are surreal touches such as a dead pigeon, and I thought of Luis Bunuel's later film works while reading "Party Going." But this is a book from a different time (I think...) and aesthetic.
Lots of awful people trapped in a couple of hotel rooms at Victoria Station.Bits:"Anyone who found herself alone with Julia could not help feeling they had been left in charge.""'I won't have you watching yourself in the mirror when you're kissing me. It proves you don't love me and anyway no nice person does that.'""Already the acetone she had filled this room with its smell of peardrops like a terrible desert blossom."
Party Going by Henry Green reads like an F.
A group of Bright Young Things, along with an elderly aunt, two nannies, two valets, a fiancée, a mysterious hanger on and a crowd of Londoners are caught in a heavy fog that has cancelled all trains.
The wealthy young people are headed for a party together via the boat train to the South of France.
Meanwhile the ordinary crowd packs into the station suspended between alternating poles of action representing either the decent English masses or a rioting mob.The party group is led by Max who is so rich he will pay for everything.
But here they are anyway:- May Fellowes, the drunk aunt with a dead pigeon that will never be explained;- Her bored niece Claire Hignan;- Her drunk husband Robert Hignan;- Her friend Evelyn(a) Henderson, who is so boring even the narrator can't be bothered to remember whether her name is Evelyn or Evelyna;- Hapless Alex who wants to get along with everyone;- Childlike Julia who is concerned only with her "charms," which are toys, and getting into Max's pants;- Max, the rich and ambivalent organizer of the whole thing;- His girlfriend Amabel, who shows up uninvited;- Angela Crevy the new girl, badly out of her depth;- Her young man Robin, who pops up occasionally;- Embassy Richard, who looms unseen over most of the book like an irrelevant Percival.They're all stuck in this room above a train station because the trains are canceled for fog, which makes this one of the Top Three Books About Fog3.
Every few years I give Henry Green a try, since he was one of my mentor, W.
It’s rarely delightful, and often opaque.
Also important is the fact that I didn’t care if I didn’t understand.
I kept moving on, not caring about anything.This is okay if I’m simply watching a master at work; that is more than entertaining enough for me.
But either I’m too dim to get what he’s doing, or he’s not a master.
I feel more like words master him, and he’s not up to the task.
This can be interesting in itself, but it’s not what I’m interested in.
I'm on a bad streak. I just couldn't get into this one. And I'm getting to the point where by chapter 3, if it's not showing some returns, I'm going back to Mt. To Be Read and grabbing another. Probably not a bad book. Rebecca West Loved Henry Green, after all. But even good writers can bore me out of my skull sometimes. Not for me.
I've read this a couple times. Never gets old. Wonderful.
a game of who's who
no
great prose
They take refuge in the station hotel and are there as isolated as they would be at the kind of remote location beloved of crime writers, despite the huge mass of people barricaded outside.Of course, Party Going is not a murder mystery.
The reason for this is really that both novels portray much the same kind of upper class existence, frivolous and hardly connected to the real world.
The enduring image from the book is the feeling that the privileged few in the hotel are under siege from the vast crowd of ordinary people in the station outside.
A woman takes a bath.
That's a compelling burlesque of the absurdity of trying to fit into a social set.But one index to me of a book's value is how anxious I am to return to it after having put it down, and in this case, I found I was avoiding it and could only manage a few pages of forging ahead at a time.
The end result for me is a book which is more to think about than to enjoy, more to admire than to like.
Allora le venne in mente che forse non aveva messo in valigia gli amuleti, che la sua cameriera li aveva lasciati fuori e questo avrebbe spiegato perché le cose andavano così male.
Oh, perché non era andata col taxi insieme alle sue cose?
E mentre lei tornava indietro Thomson le passò vicino col suo bagaglio, la luce dal taxi che si arcuava sopra la sua testa.
Non poteva lasciare Amabel.
Edwards, il suo cameriere personale, entrò per dire che aveva telefonato la signora Hignam dicendo se poteva gentilmente richiamarla.
Non gli piaceva l'idea di lasciare Amabel.
Communication is the activity of conveying information, deriving from the Latin word “Communis” meaning to share, this requires a sender, a message and an intended recipient.
Effective communication requires that the communicating parties share an area of communicative commonality, and this process is complete once the receiver has understood the message of the sender.
Feedback is critical to effective communication between parties.
The need for conversation, the need to verbalize, is of course attached to one's desire to avoid tedium; and Green's characters frequently talk not for the sake of communicating particular ideas but rather to occupy themselves…”*http://parrishlantern.blogspot.com/20...
I also admired just how brave his presentation was; as though he were trying to strip away everything the average reader would expect from a novel: Chapters?
He's basically the uber-Chekhov, presenting events (such as they are) with absolutely no commentary whatsoever.As a result, I spent most of my time with this novel alternating between marveling at the complexity of Green's art and being bored by its execution.
It was as though he dedicated all of his thought to the presentation and none to the prose, dialogue, characters, and events.
I could see what he was going for, but the delivery either left me somewhat cold or (towards the end) bored me senseless.
This is the third Henry Green book I've read this summer (paired with Loving which I liked and Living which I didn't), and it is by far my favorite.
With the concentrated setting and dialogue-heavy writing, the short novel reads more like a play.
Henry Green's mastery at developing characters is on full show in this novel - looks and their misinterpretations, the way people are addressed or ignored in a conversation, etc.
Green contrasts the "living" and the "dying" beautifully, as well as the vapidity of some rich people, the difference between classes, etc.
An interesting and after Joseph Anton short read. Imagine Downton Abbey characters merging with the cast of the Great Gatsby and you gave some idea of this novel of wealthy bright young things, talking, drinking and ignoring the less fortunate while trying to train out of London to France on a fog bound night in England
Wonderful but had to block out all distractions and restart when I felt lost.
The embodiment of all kinds of alienation. Recommend.
The novelist as trickster.
Characters multi-named.
Punctuation arbitrary.
Speech confused.
Point-of-view fluid.
Conversations inane.
“Plot” plodding.
Add enough “beastly” characters to fill ten books and the struggle to finish is real!
If you really enjoy the minutiae of human relationships you will enjoy the challenges this book throws up.
But I got a headache just listening to these people talk non-stop!
And the oppressive fog and the overhanging vault adds to the depression.
I liked Miss Fellowes and the nannies but the Bright Young Things are wholly unsympathetic.
No doubt Green achieved what he set out to do and he probably enjoyed every minute writing this book!
This has the air of a practice piece: something that Green could come back to, trying out different techniques and styles.
The premise is simple - Max Adey, one of the idle rich of the 1930s, invites a bunch of acquaintances to join him on holiday in the South of France.
It's not clear whether his prime motivation is to couple with either of two girls he has invited or a third who he has deliberately left behind until she sniffs out his plan.
The group is stranded in a hotel at the train station waiting for a dense fog to clear, while their servants huddle around the waiting luggage.
This is a Henry Green novel so expect to listen in on conversations with no narrative guidance.
I was interested in this account of people trapped in a railroad hotel because of the London fog.
The novel opens with a woman finding a dead pigeon, apparently killed by the fog, and she is not sure what to do with it.
Dead birds seem to be important in Green's novels--see peacock in Loving.
If interested in the use of environmental pollution in literature, count this novel in along with all the detective and spy novels that use the London fog as a metaphor.
A fantastic novel! As with other modernist masterpieces such as Ulysses and Under the Volcano, To the Lighthouse and Gravity's Rainbow, you have to submit to the style until you are moving in its rhythm - but that is in fact the essence of modernism, which is why so many of the great works in the tradition gather negative reviews at Internet sites (and probably would have a hard time getting published today). Don't let the naysayers dissuade you. Henry Green is a master and this is one of his greatest achievements.
Usually, I wouldn't even pick up a novel like this, let alone enjoy it as much as I did. My literary comfort zone tends to be American, violent, masculine, and have a science fiction or historical bent, so this novel fell considerably out of that. That said, I truly enjoyed it. I liked the granular descriptions of the character's inner selves, the nuanced social commentary, the rich imagery, and the subtle but powerful shift in the characters' interpersonal relationships as the novel wore on. If you liked The Great Gatsby and/or anything by Virginia Woolf, I highly recommend this novel.
