https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/10757833-beautiful-chaos
2.5 starsThis Chaos was not Beautiful. It was just Chaos.  When I first met you, that's what I remember. I looked up at the sky and thought, I'm going to love this person because even the sky looks different. Its just... everything is  SO DRAMATIC  all the time. I'm exhausted. I'm drained.  I just don't care anymore. The mortal world is in a state of Beautiful Chaos and destruction, which will ultimately lead to an exquisite end.  See? It's all fluff and drama and ANGST. All of these plots are b
All of these plots are blending together - there's hardly any distinction between the books and we keep circling the same problems every time.To Summarize: Ethan LOVES Lena.
Lena LOVES Ethan.
Link's mom thinks it's the end of the world - and she just may be right.In the last book, Lena decided to be a special snowflake and claim herself (opposed to letting either the dark or the light side claim her).
Honestly, the only thing keeping me going is Link.
She closed her eyes, and I closed mine, and even though we weren't holding hands, it felt like we were.
You know you have a good book series going when hundreds of people add "Untitled Book #3" to their to-read lists...
You know what freaks me out a bit? That I never finished this book....I was reading it, and then I wasn't and it was two weeks later and I found it in the back of my closet.It was just...good. But I there were parts that were so boring I wanted to tear my eyes out. And I have to admit that after three books of action and drama of apocalyptic proportions, I think I was a little tired of it.I'll have to see what my cousin thinks. They were like her favorite books, and she hasn't read this yet.
I started reading Beautiful Chaos with a huge smile and ended up with a frown on my face.After the great adventure I experienced with Beautiful Darkness, I expected Beautiful Chaos to surpass the excitement and thrill of the 2nd book of the Caster Chronicles.
Sadly, it just dragged on; and to think that I was really, really eager to see a lot of great things from this book.
Unfortunately Beautiful Chaos came out slower than the first and just happened to be even less eventful too.CHARACTER INTERACTION.
Another thing the characters don’t seem to learn or improve at.
The plot of this book moves away from Lena and onto Ethan.
You NEED to meet my friends in Gatlin but please start with book one, Beautiful Creatures.*The characters this time around have grown and matured, Lena especially.
I have decided that Ms. Stohl and Ms. Garcia need to (only after the finale of the Caster's Chronicles as I do not want my wait time extended) publish a Gatlin cookbook and lace it with famous quotable lines.
I expect book four to be an epic finale.Final Quotations:"That when she looked at me, it was like there was no one else in the world.
Not perfect or mind-blowing, but it was interesting and it made me want to read the other books.
As usual.But alas, I wanted to see where the story was heading and so I picked this one up and after skimming reading it, I can safely say that this could have, and should have been a duology.
What was the need to extend the series to just fill out a further two books with 500 odd pages full of pointless crap, predictable "plot twists" and questions that nobody wants to answer?
Curiosity makes me want to read the last book to see how it all end.
And I need to state that I get quite irritated when I read reviews and the reviewer says they haven't finished the book yet.
It didn't take long for me to get bored with the whole Lena Ethan thing just like the Edward Bella thing.
I do still like the character of Ethan.
I know the story tells us he loves Lena and can't live without her but the descriptive details of how he feels about Liv read more like real teen love to me than the hyped up melodramatic feelings he has for Lena.
But, as I said too much melodrama and unresolved circular repetitive overblown plot lines.
Yes I get Abraham is dark and evil.
Yes I get that he is not so powerful that he can cause this type of destruction all by himself, but really?And Amma disappointed me so bad, she didn't need to go dark, why???There were times I felt like it was just too much.The other thing that bothers me is how convenient everything is becoming.
(view spoiler)[I know this ending is suppose to be heart wrenching, but I can't help think that it doesn't really matter because somehow the convenience will hop into place and Ethan will live.
2011Aaaaaaaaaaaawwww the cover's out! And it was black and what yellloooorrrrwwww????!!!!!!! Why?OMG the title's out, Beautfiul Chaos, I lab it ^^________________________________________________Can't wait for this one, Beautiful Darkness pawns...If Link is going to be an Incubus I wanna marry him ^^
I've long felt (particularly with the previous book Beautiful Darkness) that the Caster Chronicles (1) don't need to each be 500 pages long and (2) don't even need to be a series.
I do still very much like the series and considering the cliffhanger, am patiently waiting for book #4.
Beautiful Chaos has many of the strengths of its predecessors: the rich Southern atmosphere (I practically read this series just for that), the poetic writing and a cast of characters I care about who are both quirky and human.
“The mortal world is in a state of Beautiful Chaos and destruction, which will ultimately lead to an exquisite end.”  My favorite cover in the series because YELLOW! LOL!Like what I said in my review of Beautiful Darkness, the title of this third book of Caster Chronicles are very much suitable to what is happening inside the book. Beautiful Chaos. Like my brain during and after reading it. Actually, I almost lose my mind because there's a lot of events happened to Ethan, there's a lot of revel
“The mortal world is in a state of Beautiful Chaos and destruction, which will ultimately lead to an exquisite end.” 
My favorite cover in the series because YELLOW!
LOL!Like what I said in my review of Beautiful Darkness, the title of this third book of Caster Chronicles are very much suitable to what is happening inside the book.
Beautiful Chaos.
Like my brain during and after reading it.
Actually, I almost lose my mind because there's a lot of events happened to Ethan, there's a lot of revelations and twists, unexpected, that gave way to another more twists.
And the ending left me o.O
Review It's been a month since I finished reading this book.Beautiful Chaos continues the story of the Mortal Ethan Wate and his love, the Caster Lena Duchannes.
After surviving the happenings in the tunnels and claiming herself as both Light and Dark, Lena and the rest of Gatlin experiences near-apocalyptic events and must find a way to stop this while figuring out the Eighteenth Moon.The series at its finest!
The authors did an amazing job on giving more background on supporting characters like Liv and John Breed.
The book also gets an in-depth story on the background of the Caster world, and of course, Lena's history.
Before staring this book:Everyone: Caster Chronicles go downhill after the second sequel.Me*covering ears*: lalalalala Caster Chronicles is one of the best series evaaa lalalaProgress 0-70%:Me: This book sucks, nothing's happening, just dumb teenage drama!
Finally making it to the last 30% of the book after weeks of trying:"Would you mind getting the door for an old woman?
I'm not feeling like myself today.""That door?""That very one." She let go of the IV stand and nodded at me."Where does it go?"She shrugged.
Your going to cry a lot when you read the last about 120 pages of this book.
I expect another book to the series..
I'm forming a mob and attacking Kami Garcia and Margaret Stohl..
I would fell in love with him in Beautiful Creatures, cared and praying for him in Beautiful Darkness, and fell head over heels for him in Beautiful Chaos.
I prayed for Aunt Prue and loved Amma all the way.
*To Kami Garcia and Margaret Stohl* I love you for writing this wonderful series and for sharing with us the dark elumanitive Caster World.
the Eighteenth Moon doesn't seem to be related to Lena and everything in general seems to be going to hell.After you read the ending of this book you'll realize the significance of what I mean when I say I NEED TO READ THE NEXT ONE.(view spoiler)[I had figured out that Ethan was the 'one who is two' nearly instantly, and I was bracing myself for another death but....well I didn't prepare myself enough( I felt so bad for Amma and Lena:( ).DAMN IT WHY DID AUNT PRUE HAVE TO DIE WHYYY!!!
I just finished reading an advanced reader of Beautiful Chaos - the tears are not yet dry on my face.
Beautiful Chaos is about love, not just the fun kissy face kind of love, although there is plenty of that, it's about the deep abiding devotion that love can engender.
As Ethan Wate struggles to understand his world, he learns that great sacrifices and rewards can come from love of family and friends.
This is a big book, just like we expect in this series, full of magic, the titular chaos, and some sweet funny moments - mostly brought by Ethan's best friend the Linkubus!
This was fantastic!Even better than the two previous installments and it just keeps getting better and better by each book.I just love how every book seems to be focused on a virtue, like this one that was about sacrifice and doing the right thing when you know it's the only way to help those you love!Ethan Wate is an amazing dude, I just idolize him.
With every book every character seems to be evolved as person and that's what I love about this series because they ALL learn through their mistakes (except, maybe, for Ridley who I love but she keeps making a mess out of everything).
Audio #135Guilty pleasure YA series
2 Painful Stars! I am still having a hard time reading this series… and an even harder time reviewing it… However, it is over… Beautiful Chaos(Caster Chronicles #3)BY Kami Garcia Lissa’s Third Hardest Review Ever I had stated in my review of book two Beautiful Darkness that I honestly could not wait to see where the authors are taking the story. Well, the authors took me on a long journey that lead to, what I am sure is another book. Just like with the first two in the series I had a hard time k
I am still having a hard time reading this series… and an even harder time reviewing it… However, it is over… Beautiful Chaos(Caster Chronicles #3)BY Kami Garcia
I had stated in my review of book two Beautiful Darkness that I honestly could not wait to see where the authors are taking the story.
Beautiful Chaos was a better story than book one.
I think it could have been better had the authors closed up all the details and let the story end.
That said, I do want to know how the story ends and I think the author can accomplish that in a few more chapters.
Now I'm really trying hard not spoiling things in books today (with all of the reviews I'm writing) and this one will be really hard.
I feel like I should just really talk about the ending because I just can't fully accept that the book ended like that.
I seriously need to get my hands on the last book right now!
I'm trying to persuade the person who has my book on hold to return it right now through my mind.
This book definitely shoves you hard with so many feelings and I have no idea how I can cope today after I finished it.
Waiting one year for this book after reading Beautiful Darkness was absolute torture. October was legit the month where all my favorite original YA series came out. Beautiful Creatures, Hush Hush, well they started my love for YA and a bunch of other genres. And after FINALLY reading Beautiful Chaos...well I have to say that I was not disappointed.When I first opened the book, I was a little confused with what was going on because it's been so long since I've read the previous two books in the
My heart just ached for him after all he had to suffer through, right up to the end but I know that he cared for absolutely everyone in the book.I also liked Lena a lot more in this book.
And my heart absolutely broke when (view spoiler)[Link said he wanted to take her cross country, just the two of them, because he loved her.
I also liked Liv a lot more, especially since she only wanted to be friends with Ethan and she had her eyes set on another...;)Overall, I loved this book so much.
I LOVED IT!!!!!! I think the ending was disappointing if there isn't going to be a sequel. Did anyone else notice the "Nineteen Moons" thing on the back page?
Now, it's pretty much apocalypse time and no one knows quite what to do - and on top of that, Ethan is experiencing some really weird changes within himself, but he doesn't tell anyone about them, choosing to try to figure it out on his own - typical teenage boy.There was a lot more Link in this one too, mostly due to the changes happening with him as well.
(hide spoiler)] Morals, this girl's got them.A main issue I have with this series is how long the books are for no good reason.
It's been a while since I've got my hands on a Beautiful Creatures book, but I remember that I looooved the first books.
However, I had a hard time remembering some of the characters this time around, which was my main problem with the book.
But that's entirelly my fault, so about Beautiful Chaos, it's a nice book.
I mean, I've figured it out from the beginning, and I'm not that good at mysteries, so...All in all, a nice book, but not as good as the first ones.
I hope the ending will be better, but I've got the feeling that I'm expecting too much out of it...
What I love about this series is that there is never a dull moment! Just when you think things have settled down, everything gets shaken back up and the action kicks in. And from then on it’s non stop, can’t turn the pages fast enough action. I absolutely love every second of it, this series has really drawn me in and this book cemented my love for it. Things get even darker in this instalment and it all comes to head with such a big bang at the end that it felt like my heart was breaking.
If I thought the first two Caster Chronicles books were good, Beautiful Chaos was awesome!----Synopsis:Ethan Wate thought he was getting used to the strange, impossible events happening in Gatlin, his small Southern town.
But now that Ethan and Lena have returned home, strange and impossible have taken on new meanings.
As time passes, one question becomes clear: What - or who - will need to be sacrificed to save Gatlin?For Ethan, the chaos is a frightening but welcome distraction.
One of the scenes where I cried was when (view spoiler)[Ridley turned into a Dark Caster again.
(hide spoiler)]This installment of the Caster Chronicles series really had twists and turns everytwhere.
How I hate cliff hangers.The way the story ends...
Never have I read a book with this big of a cliff hanger.Anywho, continuing on.I liked Beautiful Chaos a lot more than Beautiful Darkness.
I would have enjoyed a little more action in with the emotions but what can you do?
(hide spoiler)]I couldn't put this book down .
Twice.I quite liked this book but I suggest you reread Beautiful Creatures and Beautiful Darkness first because I was a bit confused.
I really enjoyed this book.
I knew how it ended (I spoiled myself on this book when I didnt think I would read more) but I really enjoyed learning how to get there.
I particularly enjoyed two specific things about this book:1.
Another character I truly hate and am so glad to see gone (there's no way I'll read her companion series).
This isn't really a review, just thoughts I had, but I'm glad I read it (even though I actually listened to it) and I am looking forward to completing another series soon!
OMG the ending just killed me :( i need book 4 asap!
