https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/712960.Mine_Boy
And the work is a fine read too, right from the beginning as Xuma arrives at Malay camp, gets to mix with a medley of people…he gets a job in the Mines and is struck with the way the life of whites – with their many comforts and appurtenants – contrasts sordidly with the life of blacks.
Why should whites be free and drink liberally whilst blacks were constrained to carry passes in the land of their birth?
If only it were so…the whole idea grips Xuma and he begins to think along these lines…man as man, never mind colour or race…goodness and fairness and freedom!.
Through Eliza, the love interest of Xuma, we see the conflict that existed in the black community - the desire for the higher living standards of white South Africans and the resentment for the way of life of the people who had stolen from and oppressed them for so long.A major part of the book focuses on the exploitative practices of the mining industry, where the greed for profit drives the management of the mine to disregard all safety precautions.This is certainly a must read for anyone with interest in apartheid and South Africa.
Written by a twenty-seven year old black South African who later emigrated to Jamaica, Mine Boy tells the story of a young man’s coming of age in Malay Camp, a Johannesburg slum.Xuma left his rural home to find a way to make a living in the city.
Xuma is taken under the wing of Leah, an enterprising businesswoman who runs a black club, a South African speakeasy of sorts—blacks are not allowed to sell alcohol, only whites.
Xuma is troubled that she doesn’t warn others but Leah, more worldly wise, knows that would be dangerous to her.
Xuma and Leah become friends despite their differences and her hangers-on and tenants become his extended family.
A charming, early novel by Peter Abrahams, "conscientizing" the world about (erstwhile) discrimination in South Africa, and its ravages on society, blacks in particular. The protagonist, Xuma, grows in stature as this work unfolds. The series of unfortunate events (tragedies) that besieges him and those he loves (in Malay Camp) is devastating. Why couldn't human beings just be that - human, kindly, regardless of colour? A haunting, powerful work.
عن تجربة زوما القادم من الشمال في المدينة ، ويبدو انه اول احتكاك له بالناس البيض ، يعمل في المنجم رئيساً للعمال وقد اكتسب حب عماله واحترام رئيسه الأبيض ، وخلال هذه التجربة يبدأ زوما بالتحول من رجل أسود الى انسان حر.. الرواية خفيفة وممتعة وكثيرة التفاصيل .
It gives the reader an in-depth view of what life was like during the height of the gold-mining era in South Africa, how blacks were treated during this time, and overall, what it was like to be black during this time.
The main character, Xuma, struggles with many things during this novel, but his overall struggle is with his somewhat apathetic attitude towards the way things are.
Overall, it is a quick read, and a good one for people interested in the complexities of the gold-mining industry and life during that time, but do not won't to be bogged down with detail, but rather human experience.
I'd give this one 4.5 stars if I could. It's an accessible narrative of a working-class south african man discovering his needs and his place in society (namely that his place in society should not be dictated by his race). While similar in content to "The Life and Times of Michael K" or "Master Harold and the Boys," it tells the story sans the obnoxious whining and preaching (especially of the former).
Very good piece of literature of South Africa and describing apartheid. (Junior year world history)
Brilliant, with truths stated simply and poignantly throughout, while drawing characters that crawl immediately into one’s heart. An easy, very worthwhile read.
People don't stop living when they're oppressed - and just because someone laughs doesn't mean their daily life isn't under constant threat.I don't want to make it sound like this book downplays apartheid, because it doesn't; it focuses mostly on quieter dramas (especially internalized racism, through the character of Eliza), but it does also show some of the more explosive aspects of racism, especially the casual disregard for black lives in the mines.
Mine Boy is an unsung gem, amazing and much more potent than Alan Paton's  Cry the Beloved Country . In fact, the two do not necessarily warrant comparison except for the fact that of the two, Paton's book is one of the few classic South African novels that one might encounter in U.S. high schools and undergrad. Some readers have complained of the simplicity of Abraham's language or "cardboard" characters. For me, it's that very simplicity that makes the story such a dramatic tale; it's language
Mine Boy is an unsung gem, amazing and much more potent than Alan Paton's 
Some readers have complained of the simplicity of Abraham's language or "cardboard" characters.
For me, it's that very simplicity that makes the story such a dramatic tale; it's language that anyone can understand.
As for the characters being underdeveloped, again, I think this adds to the effectiveness of this particular story.
This is effectively dramatized in Mine Boy. It put me in a time and place that I would not have experienced otherwise, despite the universality of feeling that comes with the hardships of life.
A rural black South African comes down to Johannesburg in the mid 1940s to work in the mines and we are treated to a picture of township life, with details of its social class structure and the quotable phrase "Skokiaan Queens" to describe female operators of shebeens (itself a wonderful word).
["Quotable" in this context means, "possible rock band name"].The grimness of the overall situation and particularly the treatment of all blacks by the police and the workers by the white bosses, ends in an ephemeral glimmer of hope as one of the Irish foremen stands with the workers in a labor dispute.
This was an interesting perspective - harrowing, and uplifting at turns - on life in pre Apartheid South Africa, which the author himself lived through.
Apartheid is already shaping up, but is yet to morph into a formalised system - a Black man can still walk in downtown Johannesburg at night, but must make way for White passers-by.
Opportunities are limited for non-White South Africans, but they carve out rich, full lives for themselves in the shanty towns that predate the townships that were a product of formal apartheid.
Definitely worth a read for anyone interested in how South Africa came to be.
Three stars for historical importance, but I found this artistically flat and philosophically stale. Artistically: lots of online reviewers compare Abrahams to Hemingway, but that is a superficial comparison. Abrahams does use a very straightforward style, but for very different purposes and to different ends than Hemingway. Philosophy: "the future will be color-blind!" conclusion is sudden, unsupported, and unconvincing. And given that in this century, the only people who still say things like "I don't see color" are racist douchebags, Abrahams' well-meaning ending really does not age well at all.
Probably the first book I read seriously. Peter Abrahams gave me an insight into a culture hitherto unknown. I was spell bound. I admired the characters even where I did not love them and through their eyes I experienced a myriad of emotions. It began my passion for books which addressed racial issues and historical acts that heavily impacted on society and cultural norms. Looking forward to reading this book again.
This book i read it on 2007 when i was doing matric at Tshivhase high School, On that time i was not having a picture of how joburg it was during apartheid but this book Mine Boy it makes me to have pictures about how life it was on that.Now i hv 5 years when i passed matric i dont know were i could find this book again. I realy loves this book more than my girl friend wish if i can get it again.ThanksPeter Abrahams
Although the book is written in short sentences it somehow lacks on readability. But it is just maybe it was my first book from an African writer and I just have to get accustomed to the style. The story itself was good and the last few chapters even very good, when Xuma started to think about a world without colors and behave like a man.
Back in Lit class, this was one of the books we covered indepth on the syllabus. Though it has been a number of years since last I read it, the plot and twists are fresh in my mind. The decadence in apartheid South Africa is so well depicted in Mine Boy, I swear I could rip it out the page and sniff it. Among the stars of African Literature, Peter Abraham and Mine Boy shine bright
Not bad! Simple prose, solid commentary. The "lesson" may feel a little rushed at the end, but I think this is by design. I would certainly recommend this book for a Black Lit class or a unit dealing with apartheid. It only took me about 4 hours to read, and yet it generates the same sort of debates as something like a WEB Du Bois or Frantz Fanon piece would.
We had this book as a set piece during high school and can still recall Xuma from the north almost 20 years later. The characters have a way of being present to date.. Leah, srong in body and character..Eliza fragile, beautiful and lost....Maisy, poor Maisy..Dladla, Daddy, Johannes....... Beautiful book and worth reading.
Great fictional story about the rigors of living and working as a young black South African in the mines under apartheid rule. Characters are very memorable such as Patty the Red, Xuma, Leah, Maisy and Joseph. Story is short as well.
What a fantastic book...picked it up second hand at Chaham Booksellers...the black experience around Johannesberg in the first half of the 20th century...a small novel packed with thought and feeling...4.5 stars if I could...
Strangely I had never heard of this book until a Kenyan friend recommended it last year. I don't know how Peter Abrahams does it (and I'm not an authority to say), but I think he really "gets" a black South African mine worker.
Just happened to pick this off of a book cart in the hospital, and I'm glad I did. Despite what happens to Xuma, I never felt sorry for him. He was in tune with who he was and followed his passion. We learned as Xuma learned his new environment. I liked it a lot.
Peter Abraham's Mine Boy gave me an insight into what the blacks went through in those days. The main character Xuma depicts the suffering and humiliation of the blacks in the hands of the whites. Thank God for Nelson Mandela.
The novels focuses on the apartheid era, it shows how blacks were supressed by whites. What I enjoyed most about the book was that it showed how family plays an imperative role in our lives, whatever you do where it be wrong or right your family will always stand by you.Rating: 3/5
I never knew what Southern African (Rhodesia, or Modern Day Zimbabweans) used to go through in the Gold mines in Johannesburg until I first read Peter Abraham's Mine Boy...that Black South Africans continue perishing to date in the very mines described in the 1940s, is really heart-wrenching!
Read this as a literature book in 2006 for ma exams but i enjoyed,so i have started to read it again but i cant seem to see page 5-7,where can i download it from(secure sites only)
One of the best South African Books I have ever Read.
رواية عن التمييز العنصري و توثيق لحقبة تاريخية لجنوب أفريقيا
