https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2386345.The_Smallest_Dragonboy
Within a month after reading this short story I had read the full Dragonriders of Pern series from Anne McCaffrey.
From that time I haven't gone a day without reading something, be it a book, short stories, or fanfiction.
This sudden change in my life opened me to how the littlest thing teachers have us do can cause such large changes, and because of this I found my love of teaching.I can never express the magnitude of my gratefulness to Anne McCaffrey for not only helping my find my passion in life, but for also teaching me that I could find such utter joy in the act of reading.
The title story "The Smallest Dragonboy" was in a elementary school reader when I was in 3rd grade. From this short story, which I loved, I sought out the author and proceeded to read everything I could find that she wrote. It is from this story and this author that I get my love of fantasy.
I remember reading this short story in middle school and it's what sparked my interest in reading, particularly in fantasy novels. I went to the library, looked up the author and then proceeded to read every single book available by her. I absolutely love this short story and it will always have a special meaning to me. Thank you so much Anne McCaffrey for changing my life.

A lovely short! The dragon always knows what's best.
How to review the short story that inspired my love of reading?
Well, I have no idea, but here it goes!I stumbled upon this story entirely by accident while flipping through my fourth grade English text book.
So I gave it a shot.Now, up until that point, my 9 year old self hated reading.
But that day I discovered something--I'd been detrimentally exposed to the wrong kind of books.
It wasn't until my early 20's that I rediscovered McCafrey's world of Pern, but I can pinpoint my love of stories back to the day that the "The Smallest Dragonboy" crossed my path.
The smallest dragonboyby Anne Mccaffrey This is a beloved story using her smallest son as inspiration Kevan is a young boy that is put down and put apon, who finds love and friendship in dragons. this is a great beginning for the pern series, and an great concept of maternal love.
This short story leaves me blubbering every time I read it. I'm such a sap for good dragon stories and Anne McCaffrey is one of the best authors for bittersweet stories about dragons.
Read this in the Women of Futures Past: Classic Stories anthology, which I'd highly recommend if you don't know the authors included. I found this sweet story a tantalizing glimpse of McCaffrey's Pern books, and when I stumbled across Dragonflight in a bookstore not long after, I went ahead and bought it. While I have mixed feelings after reading it--I think the earlier books likely feel dated already, akin to plenty of less-than-politically-correct classic sf&f--McCaffrey's worldbuilding and writing style hold up well, a half-century after she was first published.
This short story got me hooked on both McCafferey and reading. I came home and told my father about the best thing I had ever read, and he just laughed and told me that she wrote tons of books about that would. I got the first three books for Christmas that year and read them all in just a few days. I became a reader that day in (I think?) 6th grade English literature! InLOVE THIS STORY!
I had to read this for class. I'm running the risk of sounding very dumb here, but I didn't understand the story. Was the main character a human as the story made it seem, a dragon as the title implies, or some other creature entirely?
Short story available for free online. I read it for completionist's sake.
Great book!! Love how he wants to Impress a green dragon and ends up being picked by a bronze.
3.5
Wish it was longer
Talk about a short story. Over to quickly.
I paid no attention to author's names then, and as the story was mixed in with so many others I probably didn't even learn it.When I found another story like it, during my SFF binge in middle school, I couldn't believe my luck.
By then I knew what authors were and how to use the card catalog, and I read every Pern book in our town library and the county library.
I remember tiring of the books in high school, but never of this story, and I've told its plot to at least a half-dozen others over the years.
After reading this book, I was smitten with dragon books from then on.
I love dragons.
2 years ago, in college, I remembered the story but forgot the title and author.
I borrowed it and read it once again, reliving a story I loved.
This story began my love of dragon books, and even after many, many, dragon books, it remains my favorite dragon book.
It is the PERFECT dragon book, and it has started a quest for more, but I have yet to find a dragon book as perfect as this one.
It made me cry because I loved it so much.
I am in love with this book, its awesome and I wish it was not such a short read cause I would have loved to follow k'van and his lovely newly imprinted dragon on their path as dragonriders and fighters or thread!!
it was great to catch up with lessa and and the rest of benden weyr and I am so glad that keevan imprinted on of lessa's own great queens babies!!
what a heroic little dragon rider k'van is!!!
love the way the dragon went in search of him and how he talks to him even prior to imprinting.
The Smallest Dragonboy is a short story by Anne McCaffrey in the Dragonriders of Pern universe.
It is truly a very short story, there isn't a lot that happens, but it is a heartwarming story of Keevan, who wishes to be a dragonrider.
Reading this short story isn't integral to any of the plotting in the Pern series.
The only thing that you would need to know if you wanted to skip this, is that dragons don't always pick a rider if no one is suitable.It was nice to read something that was character driven, and shows McCaffrey had been improving since the original Dragonflight.
I hope Keevan comes up again later on in the series.
It is so great to see my experience with this novel reflected in the opinions of other reviewers. I enjoyed books before this, but I distinctly remember the tale of The Smallest Dragonboy above all and the impact it had on my life. I owe the Anne McCaffrey everything; I would not be the woman I am today without my mother's extensive collection of her books (which we now bicker over, because she --insists-- that my new-old copy of so-and-so appeared at my place around the same time her own disappeared).How peculiar.
This is a nice short story. Pern holds a certain appeal to me no matter how many times I've read the books or found new ones that I never knew existed, such as this one. I wanted to enjoy this book more than I did, and while the ending was touching, there was nothing particularly appealing about the characters or story. A boy is teased for being small, he gets hurt but still comes out the winner in the end. If it were longer and more developed, I think I'd rate it much higher.
I read this book a hand-me-down teacher's edition literature book when I was in the fifth grade - the book could have been for 5th graders, or it could have been for older kids. I don't recall.What I do know is that I loved the story. A year later I found a book about dragons at a 'friend's of the library sale' - it happened to be the first book of Pern, as I discovered when I got home to read it!Thank you to the editor of my schoolbook for including this story!
This story alone is great. It's about a small boy being chosen by a dragon, and is written in a way that would really connect with kids. I read it as part of a collection of short stories called Get off the Unicorn that was so boring I couldn't finish. So this story 4 stars, Get off the Unicorn 0 stars.
If it has one star I liked it a lot If it has two stars I liked it a lot and would recommend itIf it has three stars I really really liked it a lot If it has four stars I insist you read it If it has five stars it was life changing
Great story! First read this in sixth grade and fell in love with it. I spent the next three years trying to find it outside of my school books and finally found it as part of a collection. This story is without a doubt one of my absolute favorite short stories.
This story is included in the Get Off The Unicorn anthology. US readers were lucky enough to have this text included as part of their third grade studies I'm informed. My younger self is very jealous!
cool
This has always been one of my favorite stories since I discovered it and Anne McCaffery my freshman year of high school
um idont know
