https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/876861.Lectures_on_Calvinism
B. Warfield to Princeton in 1898 to participate in the Stone Lectures.
An annual prize was named in his honor, and there's even a Center for Public Theology named after him.
Kuyper delivered these lectures between Oct. 10–21, approximately one month before the birth of C.
S. Lewis (Nov. 29, 1898).In April 2017, Tim Keller was supposed to receive the Kuyper Prize for Excellence in Reformed Theology and Public Witness.
Princeton walked back the award after an outcry regarding Keller's position on homosexuality and the ordination of women.
First time reading Kuyper.
A couple of other cool things found in reading Kuyper...-I'm almost certain he helped to develop the doctrine of common grace.
With his understanding of the activity of God over all things, it makes total sense that he'd help to develop the doctrine.
His trumpeting the term so boldly is an act of defiance in and of itself.-The chapters "Calvinism as a Life System", "Calvinism & Religion", and "Calvinism & Art" were by far my favorites.
I don't think this will be the last time I read something of Kuyper's.
Chuck Colson recommended this book in an interview.
I like it how he integrates Calvinism within his worldview.
He has a high view of Calvinism, frequently says it is the reason for many changes in Western Society.
Kuyper emphasizes giving God everything, an unflinching service; He adds saying, In everything God is present, our thoughts, our actions.
I was surprised to read about French Revolution in his book.
Man's relationship with GodMan's relationship with other MenMan's relationship with whole World.
This gives Man an authority and his role in the world.A good read, I would recommend this to most Christians.
Kuyper's Lectures on Calvinism are a must-read for anyone interested in worldview studies.
He demonstrates his thesis by outlining the connections between Calvinism and religion, politics, science, and art (each in their own lecture) while touching on a number of other topics along the way.
His lecture on politics is particularly helpful as he develops his notion of "sphere sovereignty," the idea that the state is sovereign over its affairs and should not encroach upon the affairs of the religious sphere or the social sphere.All in all, while this book can be technical at times and will be most fruitful for someone with knowledge of Reformed theology, it provides more than enough for people of any background to learn much.
Has the virtue of elaborating a single powerful theme: God's sovereignty in human life.
Puts forth the important ideas of common grace and sphere sovereignty.
But the book is marred by the prominent role accorded to some of Kuyper's worst ideas.
His chapter on art is almost wholly vitiated by the gnostic idea that higher sorts of worship have fewer visible forms and symbols.
He is not a racist, but has his own odd Darwinian ideas about progress via "the mingling of blood".
His ideas about the sacraments and the visible/invisible church distinction are also really bad.
A journalist, theologian and politician (including prime minister of the Netherlands from 1901-1905), here Kuyper delivers six dense, informative, profound lectures on the impact of Calvinism upon the world.
Kuyper's writing is excellent and full of flair and flourish but I feel as if upon examination from a 21st-century lens, his excessive praise for Calvinism is vulnerable to critiques.
One of the problems with criticizing this point, however, is that I quite openly admit to not knowing as much of the historical circumstances that lay open for Calvinism than Kuyper.
For instance, Kuyper points out that everyone, whether religious or not, relies upon faith, including scientists in their engagement with research and experiments.
This was a really curious book.
There were of course, some excellent sections which I thoroughly enjoyed, but throughout the book, Kuyper lives in a bizarre fantasy that Calvinism is and has the potential to be, the greatest worldview the world has ever seen.
Consequently, he continually glorifies Calvinism and its incarnation in the Netherlands and shows how wonderful it is.
I found the section on Art to be particularly galling since he deliberately demeans Art in order to explain why Calvinism hasn't paid much attention to it.So I didn't like it.
Some excellent points, but overall it grieved me.
Kuyper argues that Calvinism is not just a theological system, but is in fact a complete world and life view on the order of Islam, Roman Catholicism, and paganism.
He then goes on to discuss a Calvinistic history and perspective on religion, politics, science, art, and the future.This is an outstanding set of lectures that is fundamental to understanding what Calvinism is and its meaning for the church.
It is also fundamental to understanding the Calvinist project and how it developed through the 20th century--particularly through the thought of Van Til.
As a baby Calvinist, I found this book inspiring because it showed me how the Prostetant Reformation has deeply impacted Western Civilization and Culture.
Not only was the impact in the past, but I could see that it is still and will always impact society in every area.
I love Kuyper's ability to speak to the heart and mind of man.
I kept checking the date of when the lectures were given in disbelief.
I would have thought the book was written in the twentieth century by the way he spoke.
I suppose I really enjoyed finding cultural roots in the book.
I guess it was exciting when it first came out. And worldview manual today will give you more bang for your buck and probably do it in a clearer and more succinct manner.While it is true that Calvinism is an active faith, and one can even urge that it is a transforming faith, the problem with this line of reasoning is that was not the Reformers' primary goal. They sought to reform worship in the church. A lot of Kuyperians simply miss that observation.
Que livro! Seis palestras do Dr Kuyper, proferidas em Princeton (1898), que nos mostram o Calvinismo não apenas como corrente teológica, mas como uma visão que abrange toda a nossa vida.
Excellent.
Not because of any hatred against priests, as such, not because of any undervaluing of the saints, nor underestimating the significance of angels, but solely because Calvin felt bound to vindicate the essence of religion and the glory of God in that essence, and absolutely devoid of all yielding or wavering, he waged war, with holy indignation, against everything that interposed itself between the Soul and God. Of course he clearly perceived that in order to be fitted for the true religion, fallen man needs a Mediator, but such a mediator could not be found in any fellow-man.
In understanding the relationship of each of these areas of life, he posits the concept of sphere-sovereignty, which helpfully delineates the distinct responsibilities and authority of each sphere (e.g. science or politics), and its relationship to the created order as designed and governed by a sovereign God. This concept is extremely helpful in understanding how the Christian worldview applies to every aspect of life which is applicable to every Christian's daily life.
Most helpful was his chapter on the impact of Calvinistic ideas in the development of constitutional forms of government in the Netherlands, England, and USA.
I was told a while ago that I MUST read this book.
Page after page of philosophical speculation poured out of Kuyper's.
Ultimately, this book is what actually lead me to abandon "reformed theology".
By "reformed theology" I don't mean the doctrines of grace and/or covenant theology which I wholeheartedly agree with.
What I mean is the inherent sacralism within reformed theology.
The kingdom monism that defines the magisterially reformation, as well as men like Kuyper.
Give this book a read if you must, but keep your head on a swivel.
Incredible introduction to Calvinism not just as theology, but as the root of a philosophical, political, scientific, and artistic perspective as well. The doctrine of predestination, while simple to state, brings new perspectives on how God influences every sphere of life. The Kindle version is unproofread OCR garbage, though.
This book is a great introduction to Biblical worldview. Kuyper shows the sovereignty and supremacy of God in all spheres of life. My only criticism is that he does not separate the Biblical Calvinistic worldview from that of Rome. Calvinism and Biblical theology are vastly different from the popish religion.
Uma defesa clara, concisa e acadêmica do Calvinismo como um sistema que engloba diversas áeas da vida e conhecimento humano. Leitura fundamental para os iniciantes em filosofia Reformacional. Obra prima da política.
Not an easy read—very philosophical and cerebral at times, but prophetic considering the lectures were given in 1898. Interesting connections and arguments for the impact of Calvinism on our modern world.
Good overview of the applications of calvinism (during the Reformation and the Post-Reformation era) to diverse domains regularly considered as "secular" : art (music, sculpture, painting), politics, science, religion. You can consider it as a work on cultural apologetics.
Interesting lectures, some much more interesting than others. (Felt Science lecture was fairly inconsequential) Sphere Sovereignty has very interesting political implications
I am no longer afraid of being called a Calvinist!
I really liked this book. I was encouraged to see how my faith can influence every aspect of life. I especially liked the first chapter and the appeal to history afterwards.
Good insights as to Kuyper's thoughts on Christianity and Western Civilization. A Bit long but hang in there.
Kuyper argues that Calvinism places one's entire life before God and that all of life is to be lived before the face of God.Now I must confess this is the kind of book I don't like to get caught reading because of its title.
However, most, not all, of what Kuyper writes I wholeheartedly embrace as biblical Christianity and, yes, this kind of Calvinism is a good reflection of Jesus and God's word.
Do read it and if you don't maybe the lesson here is not to become a better Calvinist, but to become the kind of Christian who lives life with deep convictions about God, man, and the world.
Here are some of his best quotes: “The arts, says Calvin, have been given us for our comfort, in this our depressed estate of life.”-pg.
166“And if this far the eyes of all have fixed constantly and solely upon the sufferings of the “Man of Sorrows,” some now began to understand that there was a mystical suffering also in the general woe of man, revealing hitherto unmeasured depths of the human heart, and thereby enabling us to fathom much better the still deeper depths of the mysterious agonies of Golgotha.”-pg.
Kuyper's Stone Lectures provide a neat account of Calvinism not really as a theology but as what is now called a "worldview" along with a polemical argument concerning the responsibility of that worldview for many of the distinctive (positive) aspects of modernity, especially for what Weber would call the "differentiation" of modern society into its several spheres (religion, art, science, politics, business, etc.) each independent of each other and each governed by its own norms.
For Kuyper this follows from Calvinism's view of a world in which each individual stands in a direct relationship with God, accountable to him directly, without the mediation of any earthly institution.
Arranged in six chapters, the lectures are:Calvinism as a Life SystemCalvinism and ReligionCalvinism and PoliticsCalvinism and ScienceCalvinism and ArtCalvinism and the FutureIn each one Kuyper shows how Calvinism as a world and life view has shaped (and should continue to shape) the world in all its disciplines.
But it was really neat to see the history of how our modern reformed writers came to these views.*As a note, if one is going to purchase this book, I strongly recommend spending the extra few dollars and getting the Wm. B.
After an abandoned attempt at reading through Kuyper's devotional "To Be Near Unto God", I decided to pick up this more theological classic work of his and I'm glad I did.
Kuyper here succinctly lays out many of the ideas he is well-known for: sphere sovereignty, common grace, a holistic worldview approach to the faith, etc.
Originally a series of six lectures delivered at Princeton, I found the first three on the history of Reformation and Calvinistic thought particularly interesting.
This is probably the best book to start reading Kuyper, as it is both not too long and gives a good overview of his theology.
Kuyper is concerned with establishing and defending what Calvinism is, the depth of its theology, the breadth of its influence, and the majesty of the Calvinism itself and how it relates to other spheres of life without trespassing on these spheres.
In Kuypers words, it is a "life system." While the heart of its theology is primarily concerned with God and the gospel, the implications of this theology reach into other interdependent but distinct spheres of life, namely religion, politics, science, and art.
The majesty of Calvinism is that as a life system, its theology informs us in each of these spheres of life without collapsing any of them into one another as other systems tend to do.
