https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/18464.Steps
1969 National Book Award winner.Kosinski is probably best known for his novels The Painted Bird and Being There, which was made into a 1971 film starring Peter Sellers and Shirley MacLaine.
But most critics agree that this book, Steps, is his best work.
It's listed as a novel but it feels more like a collection of short stories, but even that doesn't describe it properly.
David Foster Wallace called it "a collection of unbelievably creepy little allegorical tableaux done in a terse elegant voice that's like nothing else anywhere ever".
And that's how I ended up here, reading Jerzy Konsinski's 'Steps.'Wallace wrote, "'Steps' gets called a novel but it is really a collection of unbelievably creepy little allegorical tableaux done in a terse elegant voice that’s like nothing else anywhere ever." Bestiality, a woman in a cage, gang rape --- creepy indeed.
I didn't love it, but it was engaging and also a super quick read.What I found myself much more interested in than the book was Jerzy Kosinski himself, for undoubtedly some of this had to be autobiographical.
"Steps" starts out as a classic: brief tales of sexual exploitation and humiliation occasionally varied with anecdotes of nonsexual dominance and submission, narrated in many different settings by men (or one man?)in different professions and circumstances who share the same clinical--dare I say meditative?--first-person voice.
This cold detached voice and the mystery of possible multiple narrators are the things that give the book its magic.
Then, about two-thirds of the way through the book (which is only 140 pages or so), the stories begin to sound more conventionally autobiographical, the narrative voice slackens slightly in intensity, and gradually the spell dissipates and the magic is gone.
Frequently I watched the small children wobbling on their plump legs, stumbling, falling, getting up again, as though borne up by the same force that steadies sunflowers buffeted by the wind.Controversy followed Kosinski most of his adult life, likely by design.
Anyway, Steps is a disturbing little book, one which won the NBA in 1969.
It is a dirty little secret which malingers in one's imagination.
The Wallace, as in DFW, raved about the book.
He also liked Coetzee's Barbarians which I find a vastly superior book.
Steps would've hurricaned me into submission in my 20s.
There can be little doubt that the author of Painted Bird penned this.
Il male è un'entità trasparente nelle pagine di Kosinski, un dover essere che travolge il lettore come un uragano, in un perpetuarsi del tragico che non si arresta davanti a nulla, in nome della autenticità e della forza del vivere per la vita.
Non c'è niente da fare, Kosinski è un'eresiarca.“Un giorno mettemmo alcune farfalle in un grande vaso di vetro e lo capovolgemmo, con la larga imboccatura sovrapposta al bordo di un vecchio tavolo sgangherato.
Urtandolo, svolazzavano qua e là come fiori appena tagliati che sotto la mano di un mago si fossero improvvisamente divisi dai gambi e avessero cominciato a vivere una loro vita.
Sometimes like an evil Kundera with a long knife instead of philosophical exposition -- at the end of a brief part, when the knife goes in, the whole thing seems to crystallize (sneaky starts, in general, and yowza sensationalist endings).
Perpetuates stereotypes of the sicko post-war Old Country (fans of this sort of stuff should definitely check out The Notebook, The Proof, The Third Lie: Three Novels).
On and on, short psychically linked bits, carefully and cleanly composed, often told by a cold if not pathologically calculating post-war narrator.
Suggestion of unspecified international atrocities provides sense of serious heft (ie, human condition significance) throughout, despite book's general brevity.
An anonymous ego of the chronicler seems to be ruled by libido.
And the mind is just secondary so it merely schemes in providing libido with the new raw material…“It was now barely light.
No wind reached the lower branches of the birches, and the leaves on the bushes hung inert as though hammered out of lead.
Suddenly she turned and stripped, laying her dress down on the leaves piled deep at our feet.She faced me, gently forcing me down onto my back.
As they passed the highest point of the arc her back made, they seemed to take on the willowy suppleness of young birch boughs weighed down by falling snow.
That doesn't mean the hint of erotic violence in the scene set by Kosinski comes from our knowledge of having read Kafka.
We are never sure what the narrator is thinking and that creates a chill at the end of every vignette, because this is that strange animal of a book which is comprised purely of capsule stories, anecdotes, reminiscences, and in some cases only two people conversing (mostly a couple about flings one of them have had).
Look at the face on the book cover gazing at you.
I received a quiet mumbling in return.“What the hell does that mean?” I asked, emboldened by the other’s timidity.There was another quiet mumbling, and then the individual, whose face was partially covered by a hood, with either an expression of embarrassment or the affectation of such an expression, quietly turned and walked back down the alley to the street.
This time there was no one on the porch.Outside, a woman was standing on our side of the street, near the curb, as if about to cross to the cafe.
I would like to embellish on my non-review, but I do not feel I can with this one.
Brief, distressing fables of brutality, modest to vicious, and ambiguous moral order. It reminds me at times of the sheer human destruction of Last Exit to Brooklyn, but more condensed, refined, universal. Not a word is wasted, and the simple, eloquent language makes this exceedingly readable if at times difficult to absorb. DFW was evidently a fan, calling this slim set of vignettes better than all of Kosinski's other books combined, and I suspect he borrowed bits of its style and formatting for his own Brief Interviews with Hideous Men.
Almost a perfect cross between Céline's Journey to the End of the Night and Wallace's Brief Interviews with Hideous Men, complete with the mysterious (and creepy) protagonist and general misanthropy of the former, and the weird quasi-mystical (and, again, creepy) sexual encounters of the latter.Both of those, however, are a little self-indulgent.
If he's not going to say the place itself, why give us "south?" Is he trying to slyly play on our stereotypes and make us think "third world?" If so, it totally worked on me, although the next sentence starts with "the villages were small and poor," so maybe I'm back-interpreting a little bit.
Actually Steps is much less than a novel, having no characterizations to speak of, no plot, no real themes (topics rather: sex, degradation, the underside of wealth and its relation to power, violence, "inhumanity" in the vaguest and most puerile definition of the word) and really nothing much to say about these topics other than attempting to convince us--and his audience is very clearly us, the white American bourgeoisie to which Kosinski aspired (whilst clearly also hoping to scandalize us and feel superior for having suffered poverty and survived the holocaust) and then aspired to supersede through wealth--that some narrator or other had actually seen (hard to say "experienced") these yucky things.
From my Amazon.com review:Riveting, gripping, amazing.
If art is, in part, the dance between artist and audience, then Steps is art in its highest form.
I found myself dancing & reacting in ways I wish I hadn't; found myself physically aroused by portions of the text that I found intellectually / psychologically repugnant.
What I found most intriguing about this text, from a historical / sociological / anthropological perspective is that it was written decades ago.
This is one book I won't be selling used on Amazon.com; it's staying in my collection for at least four decades.
Do you remember the game "Where's Waldo?" You can play a similar one with this (47 maybe--If I'm remembering correctly) episodic narrative: "Where's the act of consumption?"Note: many of the vignettes are either sexual or violent, or violently sexual. The protagonist is on a quest to find a stable sense of identity in his (post)modern world. The question then becomes whether he succeeds or not.
Steps is like something a younger, hornier Haruki Murakami might write. You've got these terse, surreal little vignettes that are sort-of-but-not-really linked together, and all of which share this dark, creepily sexual sensibility. A bunch of odd little nothings, though not without their charms. I can't imagine what combination of substances the people who chose the national book award in 1969 must have been smoking/drinking/dropping/snorting when they picked this. Fair warning, there's bestiality in it. Several times.


I remembered that game when I was reading the first half of Jerzy Kosinski's disjoint novella "Steps".
Genitals are crushed between two rocks until "the flesh became an unrecognizable pulp." The novella is built of 48 vignettes connected mainly by their grim content, sex, and violence.
Reading the first half of Kosinski's novella made me feel defecated on.
The deep chasm between the two halves of the novella is yet another flaw of Kosinski's work.With the somewhat redeeming second half I can no longer call "Steps" the worst book I have ever read.One star.
Kosiński, insanların maruz kaldığı durumları açık ve rahatsız edici şekilde sunuyor 'Adımlar'da.
If you simply read the lyrics of a lot of West's songs you might think that the music is simply a vapid reflection of its listeners.
The speaker(s) talks about his philanderous actions he commits and then proceeds to ask how or why the girl would possibly leave them.
In the same way that Runaway isn't meant as a glorification of the speaker, Steps does not read as the endorsement of the narrator's actions.
The narrator doesn't want to let people in.
He asks to penetrate in anyway he can.
In this way Kosinski and West are striving to achieve the same thing.
What a short vulgar book Jerzy Kosinski’s STEPS is, made up of brief vignettes that sort of connect in a non-narrative way to tell a story that doesn’t begin or end but stays in the middle where the action is.
There are chapters of a kind that begin to stand together as thematically linked to sex, religion, work, politics, etc., and how each of these forces distorts the narrator.
It’s like a literary Grand Guignol staged not to shock or entertain but expose the common bonds that powers greater than ourselves use to control us.
I don’t know.
Geschreven na zijn aangrijpende boek "De geverfde vogel" waarin mij vooral het Joodse jongetje is bijgebleven dat ten tijde van WO 2 door Poolse platteland zwerft en stopt met praten omdat het hem teveel is geworden.
Vaak zonder inleiding val je zo in een situatie of gesprek tussen twee mensen en gaandeweg vroeg ik me steeds vaker af of ook dit fragment wreed zou eindigen, of juist niet.
Want vaak is dat wel het geval, geeft Kosinski geen al te fijn beeld van iemands ware motieven.
Dat is dan ook Kosinski.
Ach, hij heeft zichzelf ook niet voor niks met een plastic zak om zijn hoofd van het leven beroofd.
All boiled and minced meats and chunks of fat pressed into a log and the sliced impossibly thin, each translucent circle having a sharper taste than any thick slab of anything.
Jerzy Kosiński's STEPS is a pound of fresh, thinly-sliced fiction mortadella, except it is cut from a log of pressed frailty, pornographic fantasy and sharp, hilarious detachment with all the fat taken out.
Everything is mostly horrible and everyone is horrible about it and yet, in that horror is the sharp shock of human essence, the thing that separates our rarified meat from the rest of the baloney in the world.

Lately, I've been reading all of Milan Kundera's books.
I was at the used bookstore the other day and saw this book on one of the shelves.
It looked like an easy, light read, so I bought it.
I got tired of Kundera's dialogue and decided to take a reading break.
I made myself stop reading halfway through so I would have something to look forward to going home over thanksgiving break.
I don't really know what to say about this book, aside from the fact that it will probably never leave my mind.
I think everyone should read this book in their lifetime.
there is nothing in this for me, so i gave myself permission not to finish it. i gave it the benefit of the doubt for just under half its length. it's not even a novel, it's just disconnected vignets, in the style of anais nin, and written from a very ugly perspective. the dust jacket alluded to celine and kafka and conrad and nabakov. i see none of them here. it's more like brett easton ellis if he had written erotica. it's erotica for sociopaths.
Yes, a single star, but a richly deserved one.
Reminiscent of _2666_, book 5.
When the butterfly chapter comes, the book takes on the question of how the outsider/other adapts into the new society and what the costs are and how the sacrifices might make him/her more willing to take advantage when necessary.Note: This little book won the 1968 National Book Award and I have to say: unbelievable!
Even by today’s more lax television standards the book comes across as shocking and horrific (but with purpose).
But then again, the summer of love was around the corner and this book seems to capture the subterranean, if nascent, sexual revolutions sparked in many.

