https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/29340182-shrill
Lindy West claims her fatness in this book, rejects condescending "kind" words like "big", and smashes all the arguments that concerned thin people come up with.
I've never understood the need people feel to impose their concern on others who have never asked for it.I also really enjoyed West's perspective on comedy and, especially, rape jokes.
I'm someone who feels myself getting angry when someone even says the term "rape joke" so I was surprised to find myself convinced by her argument.Overall, this is an informative, thought-provoking and actually really FUN book.
West smashes the patriarchy and fatphobia, all while telling jokes about Disney movies and pop culture.
(The fact that ANY kid wants to be a veterinarian is bananas, by the way – whoever does veterinarian medicine’s PR among preschool-aged children should be working in the fucking White House.) Whether she’s writing about abortion, America’s obsession with female thinness, or her ailing father’s battle with cancer, West comes across as candid and genuine.
She begins her memoir with amusing stories before diving into more serious topics like the dangerous precedent set by comedians casually telling rape jokes and the tragic consequences of internet trolling and fat shaming.
While West tackles feminism, misogyny, internet trolling, abortion, relationships and the shortage of “young, funny, capable, strong, good fat girls” in television, movies, video games, and books, the topic of fatness permeates everything she writes.
Lindy West doesn't come across as shrill in Shrill but as really smart, funny and gutsy.
I love West's candid funny fearless smart voice.
I love the way she skilfully and cleverly calls foul foul and an ass an ass.
I am at least a generation older than West, and I'm excited to see smart young women like her reinvigorate the concept of what it can mean to be a feminist.
My guess is that there are a few Lindy Wests out there who have popped up over the last few years while I wasn't paying enough attention.
But all the better if her message and gutsiness aren't earth shatteringly original.
I'm a cartoonist and I face extensive online harassment, so I picked up this book in the hopes that Lindy's writing about her own experiences would help me my grasp my own."Men, you will never understand. Women, I hope I helped. Comedy, you broke my heart."Thanks Lindy, you did help.
I don’t know if you’ve kind of gotten this vibe from my reviews (who am I kidding, you probably have), but I’m a person who has an opinion on many things.
What I mean is that, unlike some memoirs I’ve read previously in my life, this book talks about things most of us think about or find important—but not only that, she puts them in perspective by frequently using her own personal experiences as examples.
This is another thing that took me time to understand.
I kept thinking, ‘‘Why does she defend herself so much?
(She also wrote about the outfits in Troop Beverly Hills, awful commercials, and re-watching Garden State, just to drop a few of my personal faves.)In her new book, Shrill: Notes from a Loud Woman, Lindy West digs deep into her own experiences with sexism, fat shaming, and harassment (in hilariously titled essays, like “You’re So Brave for Wearing Clothes and Not Hating Yourself!” and “Why Fat Lady So Mean to Baby Men”) while also touching on her childhood and the recent loss of her father.
Each essay in Shrill feels like a vital read, particularly in an election cycle that adds fuel to the garbage fire of internet comments and online harassment.
I don’t want to have another fucking conversation with another fucking woman about what she’s eating or not eating or regrets eating or pretends to not regret eating to mask the regret.(OMG, Lindy!
When did we go from spending time hiking/biking/swimming because we like it to “going to the gym, hoping to stream an extra workout at home before I go train for a half marathon.” When did talking about diet and working out become the only conversation?)This is the most quotable book I’ve ever read or heard.
Other quotes I found brilliant:Don’t trust anyone who promises you a new life.

You have to be careful about what you read when you're writing, or you can end up in total despair, thinking, "This is what I wanted to say, only she got there first and said it better." But here's the thing -- there can never be too many stories about growing up as a big girl in a world that wants its women small. And Lindy's defense of Ursula the Sea Witch as a role model gives me life, as the kids say.
Profoundly intimate, funny, raucous, articulate; this is a book for every man who ever thought of women as an alien species; and for every woman who was ever made to feel like a stranger in her own skin. It's not a memoir; it's a reminder that ultimately, we ourselves, and no-one else, get to determine who were are. Terrific.
Lindy West's courageous and humorous memoir, Shrill, details her journey in breaking free from these expectations as a successful stand-up comic, popular internet writer, and fat woman.
When you raise every woman to believe that we are insignificant, that we are broken, that we are sick, that the only cure is starvation and restraint and smallness; when you pit women against one another, keep us shackled by shame and hunger, obsessing over our flaws rather than our power and potential; when you leverage all of that to sap our money and our time—that moves the rudder of the world.
Lindy covers fat shaming, feminism, abortion, marriage, and internet trolls - if you know her work at all none of these topics should be a surprise.
One can only hope.I think there are two audiences for this book - people who already agree with everything Lindy West writes about, and the people who started to dismiss this review the minute I used the phrase "fat shaming." Lindy delves deep into her own life and shares her experiences, and I hope this can produce empathy in some readers.
Hearing Lindy say all these things fat people go through was freeing and it felt nice to hear somebody saying a lot of things I had felt since I was a teenager.If you’re overweight and you have to fly, do you worry about taking up too much space?
I was embarrassed.This is what Lindy said about flying:If you’ve never tried cramming your hips into an angular metal box that’s an inch or two narrower than your flesh (under the watchful eye of resentful tourists), then sitting motionless in there for five hours while you fold your arms and shoulders up like a dying orchid in order to be as unobtrusive as possible, run, don’t walk.
Really thought provoking and anger inducing but still very funny.I had not heard of Lindy West before listening to this book but I had read quite a few very positive reviews of it - so when Audible recommended this book to me, I did not hesitate to download it.
I really enjoyed listening to Lindy West read her own essays - her delivery is perfect and her dry humour really shines through in this format.
This is the book I wanted So You've Been Publicly Shamed to be - because even though Lindy West talks mostly about her own experiences, she manages to do in a much more measured and politically aware way.
This is a zippy collection of essays from the amusingly sharp-tongued Lindy West. I've been a fan of Lindy's columns in The New York Times, and decided to check out her book. Shrill covers everything from Lindy's run-ins with internet trolls, her pushback on fat-shamers, her critique of rape jokes, and the death of her father. Lindy is a strong writer and I enjoyed reading her stories. Highly recommended.
West is an expert in exposing the absurd messages women (and men) receive about our bodies, sexuality, and autonomy.
From the first chapter where she lists the pathetically small (and ultimately flawed) list of fat female role models she had in her youth, I was hooked.
A disturbing chapter that begins with West calling the FBI to report vicious harassment by a Twitter follower is delightfully titled “Why Fat Lady So Mean To Baby Men?” It’s this dichotomy that makes Shrill an such an entertaining and important read.–-Katie MacBride from The Best Books We Read In July 2016: http://bookriot.com/2016/08/01/riot-r...
This should be required reading for everyone who is alive right now. Lindy West is just so smart and so interesting and she writes about phenomenons that are happening in our current society so well. She writes about being a fat woman, about having an abortion, about how her weight has affected her relationships with people, about being verbally abused online, about losing her father, and, my favorite, being a woman in comedy (those 2 chapters were so, so incredible). Just please read her book.
I have read exactly six pages so far and have already laughed out loud four times.
I LOVE YOU LINDY WEST.***I am now exactly 23 pages in and was just rendered literally, gaspingly helpless with laughter at this line, in the (phenomenal) chapter on childhood role models for little fat girls, where she is discussing Mrs. Potts from Beauty and the Beast: "How come, when they turn back into humans, Chip is a four-year-old boy, but his mother, Mrs. Potts, is like 107?
As soon as you become a mother, apparently, you are instantly interchangeable with the oldest woman in the world, and/or sixteen ounces of boiling brown water with a hat on it."
She uses a lot of slang and words are abbreviated, almost like “text speak”, and maybe it's a generational thing, but it just didn't come across as humourous, just an attempt to shock older readers, and be “cool” for younger ones.
I believe the author is also a live performer - maybe her views are funnier in that situation than on paper.This is one of those books you can dip in and out of as it's split into chapters dealing with different topics – or, should I say, similar topics that don't need to be read consecutively from the beginning.
Shrill seemed like an obvious book for this "waiting" strategy—although I was aware that Lindy West was a prominent young feminist writer, I knew very little else about her and could barely even remember where I'd seen her work before (I guessed maybe Jezebel, and I turned out to be right about that).
If I had one complaint about Shrill, it's that it suffers from the fact that most of Lindy's past writing has been for internet outlets, with all that entails; namely, TMI on some topics, such as menstruation, and a maddeningly casual structure.
I hadn’t heard of Lindy West until I discovered that this book was coming out, and the description of the book was so intriguing that I had to pre-order it on Audible.
Menstrual blood, abortion, death, feminism, female friendship, some ridiculous New Age stuff, Internet trolls, and, of course, fat shaming come in for scrutiny.
Now, as a fat girl myself, I find it very difficult — even at age 58 — to be comfortable in my own skin.
Thanks for the help, Lindy.
I recently finished two audio books that on the surface don’t have much to do with each other, but upon reflection, I realized they both exposed major biases I didn’t know I had and forced me to rethink my views.
And that is the goal, definitely—to make them go away.Lindy West is a humor writer, and her book is a collection of hilarious memoir-ish essays dealing with issues from body image to reproductive rights to fat role models in Disney movies (spoiler alert: it’s not a very inspiring list).
I died.)But here's my uncomfortable confession: I had no idea before reading West’s book that I had a bias against fat people.
West touches upon her professional career writing for publications like Jezebel as well as internet trolls as well.I honestly don't get why anyone in the world has no problem just being nasty to someone cause their fat.
That's to say in my own way, y'all are broken and I'm tired of the world making excuses for you and ignoring those you hate and ridicule.West also touches about Hillary Clinton and Trump at the beginning of this book (she wrote the introduction two weeks after the 2016 US Presidential Election) and mentions how Hillary's voice was mocked and how "shrill" is often thrown at women who dare to reach above their station.
...Parts were *hysterical*.......Very personal memoir-...I started this book 2 years ago - actually got bored - ( I know I know - what’s wrong with me?)....but I finished it this time - saw my old Kindle-highlights and all.The chapter about Lindy’s father was especially moving. The biggest pleasure I had - overall reading *Shrill*, was getting an experience of Lindy West.She’s an inspiring awesome human being! 3.5 rating
This book is put together as a blend of memoir and opinion, as Lindy West recounts how she's spent her life being scorned for her weight/size, but nevertheless got over any shyness about public speaking, got involved with stand-up comedy, and developed a thick-enough skin to tolerate the absolutely appalling trolling she receives in her current job as an opinion columnist.
Lindy West is a true crusader as she's spent much of her working life taking on fatphobia and attempting to make male comedians understand why rape "jokes" just aren't funny.
I commend West for what she's doing, but this book was nothing earth shattering. The self-love message is of utmost importance. (Well done!) But, I was unable to connect with much of the book. It just wasn't for me.
3.5 rounding up to 4I read the introduction and almost had to stop reading this book altogether.
Lindy West has a gift for telling it like it is and taking no prisoners.
The first half of the book far outweighed the second half (for me).
She talks about her family, the love of her life and tackles the dangerous world of internet trolls.
Lindy has a way with words that I appreciate-- sharp language, stories that we can all relate to, and demanding respect for herself.
I commend Lindy for pulling up her bootstraps and taking control of her life.
Beautifully written, empowering, and important.Edit: This was also really hilarious at points. I almost cackled out loud coming back into my office after going on a walk and listening to this.
The last one was so bitter and so filled with vile emotional context and hateful to "other" intent, at least a tenth of the audience actually left.
That this vitriol can be interpreted as humor becomes hard to understand for those of us who have different, and some of us who may have had far harder luck, health, life experiences and cultural contexts of our own.
That she believes progress will occur from this shrieking calling out vitriol exposes how little she knows about homo sapiens emotional and cognitive reality.This goes on my abandoned shelf.
I wasn’t familiar with Lindy West before reading this book, but, wow, what an intense first impression!
Reading this book is like being slapped in the face.
It’s powerful stuff…even if it isn’t the most pleasant.Bottom line, West has a strong perspective–and presence–and, though she can be over-the-top at times, I think the world is a better place for having her in it.
I’m glad I read this book, and I’ll be interested to hear what West has to say next.
