https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/820819.Holy_Bible
I discovered that actually many Christians have not read the entire Bible, which astounded me, so I decided in my little 9-year-old heart of hearts to finish the thick volume, though it may take years.I read the Bible everyday.
My grandparents--one of the select few who had actually read through the Bible several times over--advised me to read the Old Testament and the New Testament together, which I did the first time.
Bought this Bible for my daughter Morgan and she takes very good care of it and reads it often. Easy for a fourth grader to understand and very girly looking. What's not to love?
I bought this Bible to help me teach children, but it has become my favorite Bible for myself. I love the historical facts in it. I don't think I'll ever actually be done reading it because I'll use it in continued study.
i am a christian so i know a lot of information about God. this book is mostly about how God is our true saviour and tells the story of how God came along and how he & Jesus slaved their lives for us and how they died to clean our sins.
i would recommend this book to anyone & everyone because its just an awesome book and i am so glad that i read it from start to finish !
:)) this book ended well because the entire book was written great and the ending was starting to close up the story of God and i just really loved how i read the Bible !!
Ik lees het Evangelie van Mattheus en de Handelingen der Apostelen. Onderdeel van het leesplan van Great Books of the Western WorldFinished reading the Gospel of Matthew and the Acts. These two books of the New Testament are part of a reading plan of Great Books of the Western World year.
Every one should read it is awesome!
This is the best book in the earth! Every word is true and God wrote it! I continue to grow and live better as I study and memorize God's word.
How can I review my Creator's work?
i like the footnotes and such
This edition, specifically, is made for gullible kids and dumbs down the book by trying to make it fun and relevant or some shit. I have a lot of bottled up resentment from sunday school.
This book is what I base my life off of. I really like this bible not only because it is NIV and the wording is easy to understand, but it explains different stories of the bible, gives ideas as to what you can do to become a better Christian, explains biblical terms, and points out what people of the bible did for God and Jesus. It puts God's word into easy to understand formating, and that is just...wonderful.
I have to admit, I haven't read the whole bible, but, if I did, i would choose this one. The side boxes explain things about the culture of the world at the time of the story, helping to clear up possible misconceptions.
A gift given to me after "graduating" the 3rd grade Sunday school program at Golf Course Road Church of Christ in Midland, Texas. This was my 2nd Bible to have & read as my very own. I liked some of the practical life applications for kids written in the margins, even thru high school.
This book has the ff. features that are helpful for both kids and adults to know more about the story in the Bible and how to apply God's Word in life:*Life in Bible Times*Did You Know?*People in Bible Times*Words To Treasure*Live it!*Book Introductions*Dictionary/Concordance*Color Maps
a good copy of the bible!
This is the Bible I have been reading to my daughter and the one my son uses.
im reading corinthians.....great book for anything really, answers, prayers, advice, knowledge and so on
its the best book ever
Great grafics and easy read
