https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/948618.Night_and_the_City
Night is the time when deals are made, when the big shots make money, when the seediness of London’s underground comes into full view….The innocent need to beware: the city itself is unforgiving, moving on without remorse…Gerald Kersh has apt and spot on prose, delving into who these characters are under the surface, especially aforementioned Harry, an unsympathetic weasel-like con man of sorts: “…he was like a sinister figure in a somber morality play: a creature of the gutters…” There is one scene where Harry relentlessly follows an older man, only to eventually blackmail him with false bravado and conniving methods.
The prose is a clamor of London voices, high and low, and at the middle of this Dickensian hubbub is one of the most magnificent scoundrels ever written, the grandiloquent low-life pimp and would-be wrestling promoter Harry Fabian, who boasts, brags, scams, dreams and lies his way through the pages of this book with awesome gusto.
“The darkness...seeped down between the street lamps, poured into basements, and lay deep and stagnant under the porches and the arches of the back streets...Night closed down upon the city.”And here’s Harry Fabian, a ponce on the prowl in “the shifting frontier between the slough of small business and the quagmire of the underworld.” Harry is a no-hoper, a fantasist who makes out that he’s a wide boy but isn’t.
There’s a wonderful description of the International Political Club which is a respectable backstreet establishment whose “staid atmosphere was spoiled only by the face of the proprietress.
For the most part the book is about losers, and there isn't much doubt that they're going to lose.
The thing is, for all my criticism, Harry Fabian is a damned interesting character, and the other characterizations in the book are also well done, so that nearly every scene is interesting.
Obviously Harry isn't going to succeed, but with all his ambition he might take more people down with him.
He presents his characters as they are without giving his opinion, and that's where the book succeeds.
The film version of the book, excellent in its own right, distills much of the gritty feel into a cogent, brisk plot.
Much of the book could function as a grease-smeared travelogue through the sleazy underways of low crime in the twilight hours of 1938's London.
There is little to nothing about this rogue's gallery of deplorables to make you feel good about even one single page of this novel.
A smashing good read, and one of the most elegant portrayals of slime-riddled corruption and filth that I have ever enjoyed reading.
Gerald Kersh’s brilliant 1938 novel Night and the City is ‘a book I wish I’d written’, Rich and darkly beautiful.
There’s a tidy introduction from John King in this edition, too.The blurb: Harry Fabian is a ponce, a Flash Harry in an expensive suit, a cockney wide boy who adopts American tones and talks big, yet will never make it to the top.
Twice filmed, Night and the City is a seminal low-life novel, which presents a vivid glimpse of a lost London.
This new edition includes an introduction by John King.
Gerald Kersh, who found the flowers in Hell.
This is another big difference between the book and the film.The film, by the way, on reflection, was probably too interested in its stars; namely Richard Widmark, and, laughably, Joan Tierney, who is only actually in the damn thing for a couple of scenes but still somehow manages to come off as something of a saintly martyr.
This is usually said to be Harry Fabian's story, and that's definitely true of the film, but I think the book encompasses a lot more, and so there's a lot more to ponder on in Kersh's text than Fabian alone.
On one end I don't think its a great novel, but as a portrait of a time, place, and a certain type of character its totally ace.
The main character is Harry Fabian, who for god knows, should be a major iconic fiction figure.
And yes, he does have a large plan of opening up a wrestling ring/club, but he also a man of very little talent.The fun of the book is knowing that he will hit downward, but how?
The big character in the book is West London and its citizens.
But I can say that both the book and the film feature a low-life weasel named Harry Fabian, who is desperate for money so that he can become a wrestling promoter in 1930's London.
The names Kersh chose for the positive characters (Adam and Helen) strike me as very suggestive.
I sent a copy of the book to a friend of mine, who said that he couldn't read it because it was too "ugly." That intrigued me, so I decided to try it out for myself.
Furthermore, the book ends on a hopeful note, so it isn't unredeemably ugly.
The prose is a clamor of London voices, high and low, and at the middle of this Dickensian hubbub is one of the most magnificent scoundrels ever written, the grandiloquent, megalomaniacal low-life pimp and would-be wrestling promoter Harry Fabian, who boasts, brags, scams, dreams and lies his way through the pages of this book with awesome gusto.
This would be five stars except that Kersh doesn't actually seem to be able to construct a plot. Great characters and dialogue, but a bit interminable. The film is just about my favourite noir of them all and it manages to streamline this unruly subject matter most effectively.
L'epopea dei "perdenti" e di coloro che popolano la Londra più buia, sporca e meno "rispettabile" è senz'altro interessante, e questa ambientazione non è usuale, ma lo svolgimento mi è sembrato privo di mordente e un po' dispersivo.Oltre tutto, ho l'impressione che questo romanzo nella traduzione abbia perso parecchio: se una delle caratteristiche del protagonista era atteggiarsi a gangster americano, probabilmente ciò si sarà riflesso anche in un suo uso esagerato e parodistico di slang ed espressioni diverse rispetto agli altri personaggi londinesi, cosa impossibile da rendere in modo adeguato in italiano (me lo fa pensare il fatto che spesso Fabian dica "O-kappa" al posto di OK).
he never seemed to get that they all fell in the end.He's a pretty loathsome character that sells his girl friend to men and keeps most of the money, all the while pretending he's a big shot, drinking and gambling most of it away.His current aim is to be a wrestling promoter, seeing the big dollars he thinks will come his way, all the while hustling around for start-up money, then flashes it all away being the big man he claims.Others get caught up in his schemes as well, though some try to pull away.
Sometimes you have to wonder at American reviewers who claim the States produced a crop of hard boiled writers in the 1930s; compared to the British most of them were as hard boiled as an old dish cloth.
Forget Richard Widmark's happy go lucky rogue in Jules Dassin's film adaptation of Kersh's novel.
A much tougher, meaner book that any that came out of the States at the same time, like Patrick Hamilton's 'Hangover Square' it's strength lies in it's absence of sympathy.What does it have in common with Jules Dassin's 1953 film adaptation?
Excellent for its glimpse into the world of con men, pimps, wrestlers, escorts, club-owners, businessmen and criminals in London between the wars. Soaked with colour and life, of a particularly vile kind. Some of the asides of the author are a bit over the top but the sharp characterization and dialog is unbeatable.
Good read and gives an awesome feel of what Soho was like in the 1930s. Class this as a buried treasure often lost in the celebrity pap that gets published a lot these days. If only Kersh were still alive today...
Dusty and misogynistic (even after the genre discount) London noir, set pre-WWII, but published just after. The jacket art has it all over the prose, which is pedestrian and repetitive.
Marc Glendening insists I read this book or he will section me.
recommened by william gibson in his goodreads interview
Excellent read, entertaining plot, fast moving. Bogs down slightly in middle section, however overall well recommended.
