https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2033025.The_Opposing_Shore
The things that the words said happened were interesting to me.
Some of the sentences that were less interesting to me were less interesting to me because I had read similar things in different sentences in different books on previous occasions.
During reading the pages I sometimes thought of things that were not in the world but were in the book.
During reading the pages I sometimes thought of things that were not in the world but were in the book.
I was not confused at any point during my reading of this book.
The vacuum that occurs at its frontiers – a kind of numbness which is generated on its torpid surface as if it had lost the sense of touch – lost contact.”The main character lives among the ruins of stale traditions and decayed formalities so he unconsciously commences to fight his day-to-day routine of existence.“I felt in complicity with the tendency of this country to absolute desolation.”And when one commences to slide into the bottomless abyss of doom there is no way to stop…
A calm smile adorns your face.
You look at the horizon and wonder what lies beyond.You wander around in the quiet, somnolent streets.
You see in it a lap of comfort that you can return to anytime and you will be home.Days turn into weeks.
The calm and quiet now feels like boredom.
You feel strongly tethered to what is known and familiar and you turn pale at thought of stepping outside the boundaries.You stand at the shore and wet sand tickles your bare feet.
You look at the horizon and wonder what lies beyond.
I finished this over a month ago and have been figuring out how to review it.
It's one of those rare BURIED novels that's so good I'm actually tempted to *not* to tell anyone else about it.
To keep it to myself and try to figure out how to replicate some of its magick.
It's a sort of adventure novel about entropy and the void, populated by stagnant seaside resorts and festering necropolises, sprawling map rooms and weeklong parties, propelled by an engrossing plot that never hits any of the expected notes.
It's one of a handful of great novels coughed up by the 20th Century.
These essential elements were: intertextuality; connection with serious poetry; awareness of a moral landscape in ruins; a slight favoring of style over plot; a view of writing that moves forward like time."As noted by others on here, when I first looked to get it, copies cost more than $200 online.
Set in a region engaged in something like a cold war for 300 years, in a somnolent, half-alive, yet peaceful state -- the prose induces a similar state in a reader thanks to precise, decadent, sometimes Gothic (sometimes almost purple) prose always worth a second and third read to savor and store a sentence.
What seems at first to be little more than an exquisitely-described study of a state of suspended history, of the torpor and inertia attending a 300-year ceasefire and decadence of the national machinery, gradually shifts and darkens into something more unsettling.
Julien Gracq's principle subject, in a career bisected by WWII and time in a POW camp, seems to be observing through subtle, isolated viewpoints, just where and how the 20th century fell aside, somewhat willingly, into the flames of chaos and death attending two world wars.
But beneath the surface calm, the irrevocable sand grains of history are forever accruing, the pile grows until only a tiny shift is needed to cause a cascade, an avalanche, a maelstrom.
Normally I am not even conscious of literary style, but a book like this makes you very aware of it and the contrast helps you appreciate authors who get it right.Otherwise all of the ingredients for a good novel are here: the premise is excellent, the description is good and the characters decent enough.
Given you have all the elements you need this would certainly help focus on style alone.If, like me, you have ever wondered why authors need editors then this is the book to show you!
I also plan to get as many books of the author as possible, starting with the few English translations, so do not be surprised to see more reviews of his work here.."Set in the mythical nation of Orsenna, The Opposing Shore concerns Aldo, a young aristocrat sent to observe the activities of a naval base separating his native land from Farghestan, the power with which Orsenna has been in a state of dormant war for three centuries.
Maybe there are moments when you rush into the future as into a fire—helter skelter. Moments when it intoxicates you like a drug, when a debilitated body no longer resists…  Orsenna is an ancient country dominated by its capital city, ruled primarily by several aristocratic families, whose outer coastal province of Syrtes lies across the sea from the mysterious country of Farghestan (the ‘Opposing Shore’), with which Orsenna has been embroiled in a long-slumbering war of 300 years’ time. The Gu
Weary of society life in the city, Aldo arrives at the Admiralty green as a blade of grass and ready for adventure.
As for plot development, Gracq builds in his inexorable, heavily textured way toward what materializes out of the thick grey mist covering the rank marshlands of the Syrtes coast as an inevitable climax.There is a certain feeling I get from reading Gracq’s fiction.
Except here, in this book, at the end of the road is the dying southern city of Maremma, slowly being reclaimed by the dark water surrounding it, the air ripe with swamp fumes.
I originally gave this award-winning book three stars, but downgraded it because its dubious message seemed to be that jingoism is the best (only?) antidote to internal decay. How ridiculous. Maybe I missed something.
If there was more actual "stuff" occurring in the novel to pair with writing it would be easier to push it over.
Even today, when I examine my hateful history, in default of a justification which everything denies me, seeking at least a pretext to ennoble an exemplary disaster, it sometimes occurs to me that a nation’s history is occasionally strewn, as by black stones, with certain figures of darkness, figures doomed to a special execration less for an excess of perfidy or betrayal than for the faculty which distance in time seems to give them—the faculty to dissolve until they actually unite their substance with the public agony or the irreparable action which they have entirely assumed beyond what is usually considered human capacity.
It is set between two locations: Orsenna, a fabulous city state of decaying grandeur, living on past glories; and Syrtes, a desert province on a distant and desolate coast to which the protagonist, Aldo, is assigned by the Orsenna Signory to observe naval operations.
His lack of predictability can be frustrating at times, but adds in some ways to the novel's mystery.Orsenna has barely changed for the three hundred years since its last battle with the little-understood nation of Farghestan, which lies on the opposing shore (of the title) of the Gulf of Syrtes, which Aldo's fortress looks out onto.
Little happens to alter this state of affairs during the tale, despite its length, and its verbose style is challenging.
The Opposing Shore is set in the Venice-like maritime state of Orsenna which faces, across a strait, the Muslim kingdom of Farghestan.
We follow the young, ambitious Aldo, who signs up with the Signory to be sent to Syrtes, in the dour old Admiralty fortress which reminds Orsenna that, after three centuries, it is still technically at war with Farghestan.
Most of Aldo's colleagues at the Admiralty sleepwalk their way through life, living mainly for a weekend in the stews of nearby Maremma.But Aldo reawakens the old conflict when he crosses the line and comes within range of Farghestan's shore batteries.
“The Opposing Shore” (Le ravage des Syrtes, 1951) is a haunting and very difficult novel.
Aldo, a member of a prestigious family in the imaginary city of Orsenna, is stationed at a fort on the coast.
He soon starts to sense undefined forces pushing him forward—and he will soon act in dramatic and decisive fashion, even as he remains somewhat unsure about the motivation behind his action.
What gives this novel its power is that Gracq is never explicit.
The reader is never certain about what is going on, what currents are really motivating movement.
Cuatro estrellas con revisión al alza, pues no tengo verdaderas razones para privarlo de la máxima puntuación fuera del consabido criterio de prudencia.
"Ad ogni istante può comparire nella storia un condensatore per mezzo del quale milioni di desideri sparsi e inconfessati si concretano mostruosamente in volontà." (p. 206)"E viene un momento in cui ciò che è stato a lungo legato aspira a sciogliersi, e quella forma troppo precisa a rientrare nell'indistinto." (p. 325)
Again i like purple prose and i did enjoy a lot of this but it is really pompous and highbrow at times.Then there's the message of the story which like everything else left me uncertain.
or does history, the collective unconscious if you will, force events regardless of individual wishes?
I feel like english professors could argue about the meaning of this book for months but part of that is again the sheer uncertainty of what the hell actually happened at certain points :P .There is a lot to like here don't get me wrong, but it is a bit drowned in the over the top style.
It's not very long, but it actually took me months to read it, because I hated it so much I could only handle it in small doses.
Gracq has maybe the most pretentious prose style I've ever read.
In fact, this book contains what just might be the worst sentence ever written (but don't ask me what it is, because I don't remember and can't seem to find it ...
I just remember laughing when I read it).
The book is less a story than a collection of strained similes (practically one in every sentence), mixed metaphors, belabored analogies, and endless, painfully repetitive descriptions.
The vacant, disquieting world herein exists on the same plane as Giorgio de Chirico's visual art—in a time outside of time, suspended in inertia, poised on the brink of turmoil.
Autant la lecture des premiers paragraphes du roman m'ont laissé une impression vague et complexe, autant le dernier chapitre, les Instances secrètes de la Ville, ont réussi à éclairer d'une façon très brillante et lucide les derniers coins d'ombre qui subsistaient dans mon incompréhension du récit.
La dernière page, particulièrement poignante et empreinte d'une critique non pas naïve, mais tout simplement humaine, m'a laissé une impression qui restera sans doute indélébile pour les années à venir, tant le Rivage des Syrtes est un chef-d'oeuvre qu'il ne faut pas, à mon avis, sous-estimer du point de vue philosophique et de sa position dans l'Histoire (Tout particulièrement porter attention au moment ou le roman a été écrit par son auteur).
I am finding the prose of this book very odd and difficult to sink into. I am torn between thinking that it is rich and strange like eating something thick and creamy, and thinking that it is rich and strange like trying to wade through something thick and creamy. The book also reminds me of the Tartar Steppe, which I found similarly dreamy and hard to get into. I am beginning to dread that DFW IRS boredom book, as I am worried that stories about inertia and lack of direction are maybe not my thing.
He acabado bastante aburrido de tanta metáfora, de tanto simbolismo florido y de tanta repetición. Aunque despierta ecos inequívocos a "El desierto de los tártaros", la novela de Buzzati, con su lírica sencilla, melancólica y precisa es mucho más evocativa y, desde mi punto de vista, muy superior. Y es una pena, porque la novela tiene su puntito y podría haber llegado a interesarme. Pero le sobra la mitad (o más) de azúcar y merengue.
(Dublinesque)
Structurally, The Opposing Shore also has flaws, most notably the addition of a character 9/10ths of the way through the book that has been playing a central role in the action of the story the whole time, and serves to dump 11th-hour exposition on the reader (to be fair, the exposition was hinted at a couple chapters earlier).
The tedious writing and jumbled character motivations sink this one for me, though I didn't dislike the settings themselves and it did present some ideas that I enjoyed.
The main character himself is somewhat adrift, I suppose, and this can contribute to the dreamy slide of things and events.Along with all the sensual detail and atmosphere, there lurks here also a compelling (and alas, evergreen) meditation upon power, and upon war, and upon the pull each has on the minds of men (yes, usually men, for whatever historical and material reasons).[Side note perhaps only amusing to me: I read this book because I saw that Badiou was about to reference it in Logics of Worlds.
Je ne devais me rendre compte que bien plus tard de ce privilège qu'elle avait de se rendre immédiatement inséparable d'un paysage ou d'un objet que sa seule présence semblait ouvrir d'elle-même à la délivrance attendue d'une aspiration intime, réduisait et exaltait en même temps au rôle significatif d'attribut.
" Baigneuse sur la plage ", " châtelaine à son rouet ", " princesse sur sa tour ", c'était les termes presque emblématiques qui me venaient à l'esprit quand j'essayai plus tard de me rendre compte du pouvoir de happement redoutable de cette main ensorcelée.
Les choses, à Vanessa, étaient perméables.
after I read it I checked if it figures in the "1001 Books you should read" (the French version) book, and yes it is there, the only work of Gracq there mentioned.
This seems anyhow the book of Julien Gracq that is most liked by his readers.
Not an easy read; towards the end it becomes complicated to follow through.
I did order some booklets that provide a deeper analysis of the work.
Will most likely re-read this book, discovering even more in it.
Like I said above, Aldo sees everything through feelings and a lot of the time his feelings are completely wrong.
He likes people who want to use him, he feels safe and free when things are out of his control, and he relies on his feelings to tell him what to do so at times he doesn't do anything at all or exactly the wrong thing in that situation.
He's the catalyst for the plot, but unintentionally and without seeing or knowing what's happening, and there were times when I wanted to knock his head against a wall and tell him to think about what he was doing.
Farto da vida fútil de jovem aristocrata, Aldo escolhe a vida militar no posto mais distante da velha república, a colónia do golfo das Sirtes, mantida num imobilismo graças ao estado de guerra que dura há três séculos com o vizinho território do Farguestão, encimada pela fortaleza decrépita à beira da cidade lagunar corroída pelo tempo de Maremma, protegida por uma guarnição que se afadiga na lavoura dos campos dos agricultores da colónia, cujos canhões estão impróprios para disparos e o cais alberga a jóia naval do entreposto militar, o navio Temível, é uma decrépita embarcação costeira que de temível tem o nome.
Esta novela me desengaña de la idea que una obra literaria es principalmente lenguaje y que con eso basta.Las ideas que aborda son más bien sencillas (parece que su antídoto universal es el fervor patriótico), aún y así no me parecieron bien fijadas dado que las encontré muy aguadas dentro de unos párrafos de larguísimas y sinuosas frases subordinadas que a lo mejor abundan en información sensorial (la temperatura del viento, la textura de la tierra, etc...) o en triplicar los énfasis, comparaciones e interpolaciones interminables y decorativas.
