https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/642679.Karl_Marx
This is the first book-length biography of Karl Marx I read.
On one such occasion, a meeting at a private home in Skokie to organize the Niles Township schools, I met Fern Platt.Fern was also left-wing, Fern talked to me, Fern even invited me to meet with her a few days after the meeting: one particularly slushy day by Old Orchard, a shopping center near her house, far from mine.
By now I was obsessed, excited thoughts of her occupying the hours and miles back to Park Ridge.
هر دوران جدیدی با رهایی طبقه ای آغاز می شود که پیش از آن سرکوب می شده است.*پرولتاریا از هر چیزی محروم شده است جز انسانیت محض، همین بی چیزی و تهی دستی باعث شده است نماینده همه انسان ها باشد.*در جنگ ملت ها یا خاندان ها هر کس که پیروز شود کارگران دو طرف همیشه بازنده اند.
کارل مارکسِ آیزایا برلین مابین روایت زندگی شخصی و اجتماعی مارکس و ضمنا تحلیل زمینه و زمانهی او در نوسان است. برلین این شاهکار را وقتی تنها سی سال داشته منتشر کرده است —که واقعا رشکبرانگیز است— و طبق گفتهاش نیمی از کتاب را به درخواست ناشر در نسخهی نهایی حذف کرده است. کتاب نهایتا به همان سنت «تاریخنگاری اندیشه» متعلق است؛ مؤلف از ریشهها و تأثیرات تاریخ بر اندیشمند مورد بحثش سخن میگوید و اینکار را با نهایت زبردستی انجام میدهد
کارل مارکسِ آیزایا برلین مابین روایت زندگی شخصی و اجتماعی مارکس و ضمنا تحلیل زمینه و زمانه‌ی او در نوسان است. برلین این شاه‌کار را وقتی تنها سی سال داشته منتشر کرده است —که واقعا رشک‌برانگیز است— و طبق گفته‌اش نیمی از کتاب را به درخواست ناشر در نسخه‌ی نهایی حذف کرده است. کتاب نهایتا به همان سنت «تاریخ‌نگاری اندیشه» متعلق است؛ مؤلف از ریشه‌ها و تأثیرات تاریخ بر اندیشمند مورد بحثش سخن می‌گوید و این‌کار را با نهایت زبردستی انجام می‌دهد
خیلی کتاب علی بود ،ان روز های که مارکس در تبعید کشور انگلستان است هرگز فراموشم نمیشود ، در آخر کتاب گاه حس میگردم این من استم بجای مارکس که میمیرم
خیلی کتاب علی بود ،ان روز های که مارکس در تبعید کشور انگلستان است هرگز فراموشم نمی‌شود ، در آخر کتاب گاه حس میگردم این من استم بجای مارکس که میمیرم
Isaiah Berlin, the sort of broad-ranging thinker that makes me want to give up the intellectual effort entirely, takes on Karl Marx, a bright but impoverished family man living in London.What I loved about Berlin's analysis was that while personal details were critical to the narrative, Marx's relationship with the ideas that came both before and after him is far more important.
We learn no only about Marx, but about Hegel and Engels, Lafargue and Duhring, Saint-Simon and Feuerbach.
Instead of writing as a fawning Trotskyist or a fuming anticommunist, he is merely writing as someone whose first allegiance is to the intellectual approach, albeit his own pluralistic, skeptical, emphatically liberal-democratic intellectual approach.
Un libro fantástico y muy ameno. No esperes una biografía, si no un análisis del entorno y evolución de la ideas alrededor de la mente de Marx.
This book was my introduction not only to Karl Marx and his thought, but to the author Isaiah Berlin.
While I have fondness neither for the thought nor for the writings of Marx, I have become a fan of both the works and thoughts of Isaiah Berlin over the decades since this first encounter.
From the youth of Marx to the refolutions of the 1840s to the appearance of the first volume of Das Kapital in 1867 there is a thoroughly intense readability to this biographical portrayal of ideas.
And the portrayal and analysis of ideas is why I enjoyed this book and continued to return to Berlin's other books over the ensuing years.
برای رنج و درد روانی یک درمان وجود دارد و آن هم درد و رنج جسمانی استکارل مارکس
I agree with everything said about it by my Goodread's friend, James Henderson, and, like him, am now very interested in pursuing Berlin's other works.As to Marx, I find it an amazing contradiction in his character that though a life-long devotee of books and ideas, as a determinist he discounted the power of ideas to influence history.
But, as Berlin comments on this idea, "the very extent of its own influence on human affairs has weakened the force of its thesis." Marx is a classic example of a determinist who saw himself as somehow outside his own deterministic framework.
There may be better introductions now on Marx in the terms of scholarship, but the style of Isaiah Berlin's prose compensates this. To read Berlin is always a pleasure.
If you read this not for the sake of Marx but to get a glimpse of what a brilliant mind Isaiah Berlin has, then you'll be pleased. Nonetheless, it's a very good biography of Marx and description of the development of his philosophy.
Unfortunately, these were important concepts in Marx's own philosophical development, so that made the later discussions on Marxism cloudy and confusing as well.Still, I did get what I set out to get from this book, which was a basic understanding of Marxism and the man that Karl Marx was, along with the historical and philosophical environment that created both.
The second part continues "...or have read without understanding its, at times, obscure and torturous prose." This simply represents my own personal feeling about Berlin's book in general.
In addition to being about a titanic man in Marx, this is the first work of another titan, Isaiah Berlin.
Marx comes across as a horrendous man, totally obsessed with his cause to the detriment of all else.
After that he took an evening walk on Hampstead Heath, or returned to his study, where he worked until two or three in the morning" (228-29).To show that great evil can coexist with a love for the good, witness his fondness for Shakespeare:"He was fond of poetry and knew long passages of Dante, Aeschylus and Shakespeare by heart.
Tras haber tenido la oportunidad de haber disfrutado de algunos de sus artículos, era consciente de que la fama de Berlin como uno de los mejores ensayistas del siglo XX era más que merecida, pero desde luego sus textos cortos no son comparables con sus obras más elaboradas (al menos con esta).Karl Marx, su vida y su entorno, fue publicada por primera vez en 1939.
Es muy difícil encontrar obras sobre un personaje tan determinante en la historia mundial que huyan tanto de la hagiografía como de la demonización más absoluta, pero sin duda Isaiah Berlin lo logra con creces.
This book is probably 30% biography and 70% a study of Marx’s ideas, the ideas in the air among other communists at the time, and a lot about their precursor, Hegel.Berlin provides his longest chapters to Marx’s two great contributions: the theory ofHistorical Materialism,and his massive tome Capital, which took him 15 years to write post 1848 while he exiled himself in London.Historical Materialism is an evolution from Hegel, wherein Marx accepts the Hegelian idea of history being a “single non-repetitive process which obeys discoverable laws”, but rejects Hegel’s underlying constant “Spirit”, because it is a non-refutable, non-testable idea that doesn’t contribute to one’s knowledge of the world in any real way (although later thinkers like Popper rejected Marx’s ideas as pseudoscience as well).
Though he was himself vehemently opposed to communism his entire life, Sir Isaiah gives as clear an exposition of Marxist philosophy as is possible in 200 pages in the lucid prose for which he is renowned. I will note only two arguments from the book which I had not hitherto encountered in my (admittedly not very extensive) Marxist reading and which struck me as worth noting down; Berlin traces the origins of Marx's materialism, not to Feuerbach, but to his beloved father who was himself very m
I will note only two arguments from the book which I had not hitherto encountered in my (admittedly not very extensive) Marxist reading and which struck me as worth noting down; Berlin traces the origins of Marx's materialism, not to Feuerbach, but to his beloved father who was himself very much influenced by eighteenth century thought, especially the work of Voltaire; this, Berlin argues, was what allowed Marx to retain a healthy skepticism of the Hegelian metaphysic from the very start, and also later made him better receptive to Feuerbach's "Theses" and Feuerbach's criticisms of his teacher.
I am trying to read everything by Isaiah Berlin I can get my hands on and he is certainly my favourite political philosopher now.
His depth of reading and ability to synthesize is staggering to mere humans such as myself.
I must admit I read this because of the author rather than the subject.
Certainly he come across as a singularly unattractive character, but the art of Berlin is to manage a fine balance, showing that, along with a host of shortcomings, Marx's analysis was correct in many aspects.
This is not an easy read but Berlin never disappoints if you read him carefully.
I'd read the Manifesto earlier that summer, but, as to the influences and extent of Marx's thought, I was blind.
This book was, for me, an introduction to much of the philosophy of the 19th century.
Overall, it does an excellent job of delineating the development and maturity of Marx's thought.
Anyone who wants an introduction to political and historical philosophy of the 19th century should read this.
That being said, everyone should read this, because much of contemporary thinking is under-girded and, at least partially, based on the ideas enumerated in this book.
An interesting book about biography of Marx. Written in a easy-reading way (not surprising for Berlin!) that makes the book an appropriate option as quick introduction on Marx.Mostly the book accentuate on the environment and the relations of the Marx with people around him, rather than just his theories. I also think it's better to see a philosopher's work, in the context of his daily life.
It should be re-titled as, "The development of Marx’s ideology and the factors shaping it." This book is more about that than it is about Marx's life, though there are some interesting personal aspects of his life that are recounted over here.
Rather than a book on Marx’s life, this book is an excellent and easy-to-understand introduction to the doctrine of Marxism and the environment that shaped it.
Overall, it is an excellent introduction for a novice reader like me who is interested in understanding the ideology behind Marxism.
As many mentioned, this isn't a strict biography, but rather a portrayal of the development of Marx's thought with some minimal context of his life provided.
Berlin shows the evolution of Karl Marx's philosophy as well as his fusion of different ideas, all put together to form the awe inspiring tools of Marxian social analysis.
There's also everything that you would expect in a book that revolves around post-historical materialism Marx : The Communist Manifesto, the Paris commune, Das Kapital, the First International etc.The only downside was that Berlin didn't delve into Marxian economics, so there's not much talk of his theory of value, surplus value, theory of exploitation etc.
خوب، نوشتههای آیزایا برلین شفاف و روشنه و برای آدمهای آماتوری مثل من یک کلیاتی رو به قابلفهمترین شکل بیان میکنه.
با این حال به نظرم میرسه مترجم در قسمتهای فلسفی و عمیقتر کتاب نتونسته به اندازهی کافی شفافیت متن رو حفظ کنه.
اما به هر حال محیط و اوضاع و احوالی که مارکس در آن زندگی کرده و به عظمت رسیده رو قشنگ توصیف میکنه.
آیزایا برلین این کار رو خیلی بهتر در کتاب رمانتیسیسم انجام میده و ما را قادر به درک یک دورهی تاریخی میکنه که در کشور خودمون چنین دورهای وجود نداشته است.
با خوندن این کتاب به یک سر
با این حال به نظرم می‌رسه مترجم در قسمت‌های فلسفی و عمیق‌تر کتاب نتونسته به اندازه‌ی کافی شفافیت متن رو حفظ کنه.
آیزایا برلین این کار رو خیلی بهتر در کتاب رمانتیسیسم انجام می‌ده و ما را قادر به درک یک دوره‌ی تاریخی می‌کنه که در کشور خودمون چنین دوره‌ای وجود نداشته است.
با خوندن این کتاب به یک سری تناقضاتی در تفکر کارل مارکس مواجه شدم که مطمئن نیستم ناشی از عدم درک درست متن توسط خودمه یا واقعا جای بحث داره.
مثلا این که چطور می‌شه آدم هم معتقد به ناگریزی پیروزی پرولتریا باشه و هم به مبارزه‌ی قهرآمیز و خشن.
There is not too much in this book, other than some bio notes, which are interspersed.
Sir Berlin, he was knighted, was a poor writer and so there are a lot of meanderings and duplications in the text.
It can be boring.
Berlin quotes from Marx's books and his own.
on the plus side it's short but amorphous -- berlin refers to people and events and gives no historical significance to their appearance.
probably the most unexpected thing about the book is despite the 10 chapters the amount of redundancy and little real information you get after the first 3 chapters.
I think this was mostly worth reading for the various prefaces and introductions, all from 1950-60s Britain and America, who are completely within the bounds of anti-communist discourse and yet trying to justify the writing of a somewhat positive biography of Marx. The biography itself was middling, though pleasant. This despite the fact that, as the author of the introduction says, "like so many Englishmen, [Berlin] writes surpassingly well." (Them Brits you know... they're all born to write like Shakespeare. It's just the unfortunate presence of others who would dare to call their language 'English' that brings them down...)
Personal biographic details are relegated to the background in lieu of an extraordinarily lucid and convincing presentation of the philosophic—and to a lesser extent, the economic—foundations and framework which undergirt the hirsute German genius' enduringly influential corpus of utopian and pseudo-scientific historical materialism. Berlin is not by any means a fan, but he's fair—and exceptionally learned.
Marx as seen from the eyes of a historian of ideas rather than a zealot. Berlin is going back through time to put back the pieces that led this brilliant man in his path of engineering a philosophy that has withstood multiple attacks on all fronts. It might be lacking slightly on its description of the scientific side of Marx's work and the analysis that can be done through it.
untungnya buku yang didapat bukan yang covernya ini:***senangnya sang diri dapet buku langka dan sptnya bagus ini:)bakal bisa jadi bacaan tepat di bulan suci. biografinya nabi. Nabinya kaum buruh satu bumi!
This is one of most sensible semi-biographical account of Marx i have come across. Sir Berlin sound absolutely stunning in each & every line, especially when he is discussing 19th century philosophers & their ideas.
A clear concise erudite exploration and explaination of Marx's ideas in the context of his life and times. Simply a must read for anyone interested in the ideas that had so much influence and effect in the 20th century.
"بگذارید طبقات حاکم از تصور برپایی یک انقلاب کمونیستی،برخود بلرزد.پرولتاریا چیزی ندارد که از دست بدهد-به جز غل و زنجیرهایش-اما می تواند جهانی را به دست آورد.کارگران سراسر جهان،متحد شوید."مانیفست کمونیست-مارکس ،انگلس
