https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/3052106-the-picture-of-dorian-gray
For my review of the full text by Oscar Wilde, please link here.Ian Edginton has written many screenplays, and graphic novels.
Not only is this is the only picture in colour, but it is the only illustration in the entire work which attempts the use of shades and tones without thick black lines around them.
This style of illustrative technique is not to my personal taste.Nevertheless, the novel captures the sense of Oscar Wilde's original, which has more of a play-like feel than most novels.
This graphic novel may possibly serve a function in introducing his work to a new audience who like this style.
"If it were only the other way! If it were I who was to be always young, and the picture that was to grow old! For that-for that-I would give everything! Yes, there is nothing in the whole world I would not give! I would give my soul for that!" A couple of years ago at the MET I picked up a copy of this book featuring some of Oscar Wilde's best quotes. I threw it out (sorry, Mom!) after marring it with my unnecessary scribblings, but based on the quotes it had from this book, I decided I'd give
I threw it out (sorry, Mom!) after marring it with my unnecessary scribblings, but based on the quotes it had from this book, I decided I'd give it a go.One afternoon, Lord Henry Wotton visited his friend Basil and met his muse Dorian Gray, a physical paragon.
So much in fact that he unknowingly sold his soul for it.Of course, the painting didn't retain the same beauty, but I'm not going to spoil it for anyone who hasn't read it.This was definitely the most quotable book I've come across.
So far my favourite book of the year.(As a side note, I didn't read the graphic novel.
I'm not going to lie. I hated the majority of the storyline but what propelled me to give this graphic novel 4 stars, was how atmospheric it came across. The illustrations were in black and white and most were very creepy. Could it be a good read for Halloween? *ticks that box*Not read the original novel!
This is my all time favorite book so of course I enjoyed the graphic novel. :)
This was a rather short adaptation of the morality tale, so it ended up being more of an introduction than a complete retelling of the story. Some of Wilde’s biting wit made it into the story, but the black and white illustrations were rather simple and cartoonish. I hope that after reading this adaptation, young readers will then move onto the original.
*Línea 4b. Novela gráfica o manga*Sigo pensando que no habrá imagen que pueda representar el retrato de Dorian Gray, pero me gustó la idea de los clásicos a las novelas gráficas. Incluso me dieron ganas de releer la historia.
A good adaptation of a great book. Edginton's script does a great job of condensing Wilde's novel without losing any of the flavor. I'm not a huge fan of the art, it was just a little too abstracted for my taste. But overall, a good job.
I enjoy seeing adaptions of classic books in the graphic novel format, I think its a great bridge to introduce readers to the graphic novel format.Dorian Gray really does well in this illustrated format.
Dorian is a young lord living the life of comfort his money and title afford him.
His own skin remains unblemished while his portrait becomes a haggard, evil visage.Edginton does a great adaption of the novel even inserting some of the famous?favorite quotes from the source material.
A great adaption.
This graphic novel has made me want to read the original.
What lovely grimness.
To be so full of vanity and sin, to live in perfect youthfulness.Dorian Gray traded his virtue and innocence for youthful longevity.
He prayed to a self portrait that he may keep his beautiful face and that he never have to whither and grow old and age.
To be loved forever.
Yet....With this trade he was unhappy.
This classis has a good moral.
Be good to thy neighbor and thy self otherwise you will be lost and your soul will suffer.Great graphics loved how pretty the illustrators made Dorian Gray.
Este libro lo leí cuando tenía aproximadamente 16 años, lo adoré con la vida y a pesar que el autor no es mi persona favorita (por toda su historia y su opinión acerca de las mujeres) siento que la forma en que está plasmada el arte, la belleza, la juventud y otros temas dentro de la novela no podrá superarse jamás. La historia ya la conocen pero leerla, es otra otra experiencia!!! Te consume y te hace reflexionar acerca de todo lo que crees.
Çizimleri hiç begenmedim. Sanki internetten kitabın özeti okunmuş öyle yazılıp çizilmiş gibi.
The Picture of Dorian Gray is probably the last book that should be made into a graphic novel. The slow, simmering story is boiled down and shaved away until only the bare structure of the plot remains. Oscar Wilde's dialogue cannot and should not be squeezed into a word bubble in incomprehensible fine print. They cut out most of the interesting elements of the original book, including it's Aestheticism, allusions and symbolism, and most surprisingly of all, Basil's feelings for Dorian. Overall pretty blah.
قصة مخيفه ، تلمس ذلك الجزء الخفى فى نفوسنا لشد ما يختلف تأثير قراءتها فى الصف الاول الاعدادى عن قراءتها فى الجامعة . طرق جرئ للنفس البشرية يعطيك قدرا لابأس به من الشجاعة .
*Read in Spanish.
Actually a 3.5 stars My review is based on the adaptation alone, the story and the characters are Oscar Wilde's and I've already rated the original novel 5 stars.On the whole, a pretty good adaptation, there were little bits missing which I didn't really understand considering the original novel is so short but oh well.I don't think the art style worked well at all to represent Oscar's work, it felt very childish which clashed horribly with Wilde's nuanced style.Overall a decent enough adaptation, but it doesn't quite represent the original book's beauty and elegance the way I would have liked
While it is of course, beautifully written by Oscar Wilde, the story line to me was a bit too incredulous, though intriguing. It will never happen in real life for sure, but in many ways I think each one of us has a version of this painting, maybe in the form of a different object, or so we wish, that would absorb our guilt, our negative thoughts, as we strive to remain pure in the eyes of humanity.
I have not read the novel, but have loved the story for years. Found this at a thrift store and was pretty excited. I'm not a big fan of how it was drawn, nor how short it was. Like I said I haven't read the novel so I do not know how close they kept to the original but I found it very choppy, especially towards the end. I hope there's a different graphic novel of Dorian Gray that I can enjoy more.
An illustrated sparknotes that makes you actually want to read and finish the original?... Perhaps.I have only read the first couple of chapters of the original and it was tedious as most classic reads are to me. But I really wanted know the story and so when I saw this in the library, I knew it was a chance to read a classic.
I haven't read the novel and read this mostly to finally get the full story.I did not feel as though a got the full story, more like a strongly abridged version. Obviously it would be shorter but the growth of the characters was not given time.The artwork was nice, but it did not feel like it added much to the story.
Una metáfora genial sobre las diferencias posibles entre el interior y el exterior de un ser. Juzgamos a nuestros semejantes por su aspecto sin saber nunca del todo lo que habita en su interior, porque todos escondemos algún secreto.
A well written book. Enjoyed reading it.
A little dull at points but the ending did not disappoint! I read it while traveling through Europe which was the right decision.
A well written book. Enjoyed reading it.
A well written book. Enjoyed reading it.
A well written book. Enjoyed reading it.
A well written book. Enjoyed reading it.
I liked the book
A well written book. Enjoyed reading it.
Was a little short and blunt but I got the gist, I will definitely be reading the original version.
"Behind every exquisite thing that existed there was a tragedy..."
