https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/76740.The_Demolished_Man
This is what my poor review looks like now that the 'pre' tag is broken:So too? what telepath do a you are think fun Oh of kind the It's Demolished Man?... and here's the source:Come on Goodreads, fix this bug! You've been sitting on it for months.
Read this or his other classic The Stars My Destination and you will understand why I insist sci-fi readers should never neglect older science fiction.
These are two terrific stories that stand the test of time.1953 coverIn The Stars My Destination Bester posits a strange future society where everybody can teleport using the power of their mind.
In lesser hands, this conceit would never work but Alfred’s Bester was able to spin a great yarn from this fairly simple premise.The Demolished Man is an “inverted detective story” in the reader is immediately told who the murderer is, but the difficulty for our hero is how to catch the devious bastard.
When thoughts and memories are up for grabs a man like Ben Reich, who is premeditating a murder, must employ unorthodox methods to protect his inner most thoughts.
Eight, sir; seven, sir;Six, sir; five, sir;Four, sir; three, sir;two, sir; one!'Tenser,' said the Tensor.'Tenser,' said the Tensor.'Tension, apprehension,And dissension have begun.' The best protection, Ben Reich believes, against at least lower level peepers is a song that creates interference in his thoughts concealing his true intentions and his memories.
Powell tries to protect Miss D'Courtney and heal her shattered mind as Reich searches desperately for the one witness that can send him to DEMOLISHION.
We know who the killer is : Ben Reich, one of the richest men in Bester's future Earth, the CEO of the biggest corporation in the Solar System.
Reich's spanner in the works is the fact that this Tomorrow's World has managed to discover, train and deploy telepaths capable of reading minds at all levels of the social scale.
Since I never read any of Rand's books and I am only familiar with them through second hand commentaries, I probably should simply note that the future imagined by Bester, the world ruled by the likes of Ben Reich, looks more Dystopian than Utopian.
"If you won't let it be merger, then I'll make it murder."American author Alfred Bester's 1953 zooming supersonic science fiction crime thriller The Demolished Man features power- hungry Ben Reich, corporate tycoon a la Jonas Cord from The Carpetbaggers, moving and shaking and shooting he way through 24th Century New York City and beyond.
The Espers influence is pervasive - on nearly every page of the novel, these peepers are peeping into the minds of "normal people" (author's language here) or conversing amongst themselves, mind to mind, without the need for speech.
This can apply to the religious revelations of Fyodor Dostoevsky as well as to the scifi innovations of Alfred Bester.The other broad problem is a change in style.
Harry Harrison notes in the introduction to the 1996 reissue that Bester had “cut his teeth in comics”, and perhaps people with a visual sensibility will find his style more appealing.Science and technology have changed so much in the six decades since this book was written, and that can always hurt a science fiction writer who chooses to write with such particular technology in mind.
And how would you go about committing it?This begins as a Columbo-style tale, in which we first watch Ben Reich as he plots and executes the murder of Craye D’Courtney, and then observe Police Prefect Lincoln Powell—an Esper himself—as he investigates the crime, interrogating Reich periodically as he gets closer to the truth.
The stars are gone.
Where are the stars?""What stars?""I don't know their names...
and… How the hell should I know their names?
What's happened to the stars?""What are stars?" Duffy asked.Reich seized her savagely.
There's been a catastrophe in space, the stars are gone!"Duffy shook her head.
The Demolished Man: A SF classic about murder in a telepathic society(Posted at Fantasy Literature)If I had read this book back in 1952 when it was first published, I would have given it 5 stars, no question.
Having said that, The Demolished Man remains an impressively-imagined story of future society shared by telepaths and normals, and the attempt by a wealthy megalomaniac industrialist Ben Reich to stage and get away with murder in a society where the police and many others can read thoughts and memories.
The very first Hugo winner of all time, The Demolished Man is more like a crime novel that happens to be in a science fiction universe, an earth where nobody has committed a murder in 70 years because so many people are trained to be telepathic.
I wish I could see a movie version because I want to see people fighting in their heads, having telepathic party games, and more than anything I want to see the Rainbow House of Chooka Frood.
I also enjoyed my friends Scott and Julie discussing this novel over at their podcast, A Good Story is Hard to Find.
3.5* Alfred Bester, one of the icons of science fiction (though I didn’t know him until a month ago [yep you got me I’m not much of a sci-fi guy]), challenges himself by writing an inter-genre novel,  The Demolished Man , which is the Hugo Award winner dated in 1953.
Oh I’m exaggerating; you can leave out the word “ancient.” Bester mixes two genres: sci-fi and detective, and succeeds in doing so.
Oh well there remains the mystery and my loathsome LINCOLN POWELL, The Perfect, Esper#1, and a detective tries to solve this case.---------------------------- *** Or peepers [or Espers] which are of three degrees: Esper#3: Just peeps the conscious.
Esper#2: the conscious and the subconscious.
“But man is not made for defeat," he said. "A man can be destroyed but not defeated.” (Hemingway, 1952)  The human spirit cannot be defeated, but it can be destroyed, in this case, the complete eradication of what you once were, the complete destruction of the psyche, the birth of The Demolished Man.Awarded the first ever Hugo Awards in 1953,The Demolished Man is considered to have had an extensive impact to the genre that rippled through the ages especially in the cyberpunk generation. But 62
Dick’s The Minority Report, The Demolished Man operates in a world where crime is but a concept thanks to Espers, individuals who are capable of ESP, which of course involves reception of information not gained through the recognized physical senses but is sensed with the mind.
Enter Lincoln Power, a 1st class Esper and Prefect of the Police Psychotic Division who investigates the historic murder case which inevitably leads him to a collision course and hunting expedition for the world-shaker Ben Reich.
The instance above plays out when Reich turns to one of his employees, but the facts therein stated are not the things an owner/CEO does not know when he runs and owns a company that employ Espers.
The first lady that you meet in this book spends two pages begging the hero character to marry and have children with her, even though she knows he doesn't love her.
Enter the Heroine, who witnesses the cold blooded murder of her father, becomes so traumatized that she runs outside naked and disappears.
The heroine is rescued from this situation and taken to the hospital where it is determined she is SO traumatized from witnessing the murder of her father, that she has to undergo some bizarre science fiction "regression therapy" so she can grow back up into accepting the truth of what happened.
Yıkıma Giden Adam pek çok katmandan oluşan bir keşmekeş ve ben bunu iyi anlamda söylüyorum.
Eh, bir İstanbullu olarak ben ve bu şehrin diğer insanları da büyük bir kaosun parçasıyız.İşte tüm bu nedenlerden Ben Reich'ın karakteri ile Bester'ın anlatımı adeta tek yumurta ikizi özelliği gösteriyor.
Kitabın alt metninde yatan bir sağ-sol çatışması bile mevcut ki, bunu okurken çok eğlendim.
Son olarak, Reich'ın bir başkarakter olarak "doğal yok edici" rolü de hoşuma giden bir başka etmen.
Evet, kendisi nam-ı diğer "yıkıma giden adam".
Ben Reich, pek çoğumuzun özünde barındırdığı bir adam.Bir de bana mı öyle geliyor, yoksa Kaplan!
ile Yıkıma Giden Adam arasında benzerlikler mi var?
Man will find a way to cheat even in the most utopian society – the nature of human being is incorrigible…The Demolished Man is a unique and very idiosyncratic dystopian mystery and an early harbinger of cyberpunk.The tale is taking place in the distant future where psychiatric science is in prime and psychic phenomena factually rule society.
Psychology is used to detect criminals and even to escape reality utilizing catatonia.“A great new treatment… Patient goes into catatonia.
Tension, apprehension, And dissension have begun.” Reeling it inside his head the knave blocks the telepathic access to his mind.
But truth will out anyway and at length the fox is brought to the furrier… In utopias, there are no gallows though and the wrongdoers are humanely demolished.
Oha demek istiyorum. Sonu mükemmel.
A pulpy energy drives this science-fiction noir through writing that is sometimes clunky, sometimes excellent (check out Jenny Colvin's review for a quote of the great passage that describes an exploded ceramics plant), a future setting with ESP-endowed "peepers" investigating the first murder in many years, and interesting if too broadly-characterized characters.
This future has some inevitable dated elements mixed with some quite interesting details, and there's a whole Freudian subtext that's kinda-silly yet well-worked by the narrative.
Really enjoyed this pow-sock-em-but-never-TOO-over-the-top ride despite any of its flaws.
Seems well-deserving of the first Hugo award, and looking forward to checking out some more Bester.
3.5 StarsThis book manages to both impress and fail to impress, on account of its strong plot and weak narration.The conception is realistic, exciting, and has enough elements of SF - that of a world teeming with graded Espers or mind-readers who police the world that has now expanded to settle on various planets, and catch the criminal before he can even properly lay on the plan.In 2301, Ben Reich, owner of Monarch corporation, decides, in murderous passion, to murder (of, course) his rival - knowing well enough that it is nearly impossible.
what ensues is a game of cat and mouse between the two, as each attempts to thwart the other using every resource at his disposal.As I said the story is enjoyable, but it seemed a bit more dated to me than _The Stars My Destination_.
While some of the changes Bester made to his society made sense and certainly changed elements from what we know today, other aspects of it felt a lot like nothing much had changed since the 1950's and 60's, the era when the book was written.
4.5 stars. One the first (if not the first) true SF psychological thrillers. A superb read that ranks up there with another classic Bester novel, The Stars My Destination. A true science fiction classic that lives up to the name. Highly recommended.Winner: Hugo Award for Best Science Fiction Novel (1953)
Executive Summary: Part sci-fi, part detective novel, part thriller. I was a bit surprised I enjoyed this one so much. Full Review When this book was announced as the September Sword & Laser pick, my initial reaction was: "never heard of it".The premise sounded interesting, and all of my friends who read it prior had given it a 5. Good sign. But it's 60 years old. It was in fact the first book to win the Hugo 60 years ago this year.I don't read a lot of classics. I've found most of the ones
When this book was announced as the September Sword & Laser pick, my initial reaction was: "never heard of it".The premise sounded interesting, and all of my friends who read it prior had given it a 5.
It was in fact the first book to win the Hugo 60 years ago this year.I don't read a lot of classics.
I can't say I have (or will) read the other nominees from that year, but this one was a lot of fun for me.It's more thriller or detective novel than sci-fi.
A lot of older works I've read are more focused on some cool sci-fi idea and less so on the story.
Yıkıma Giden Adam bize 24.
yüzyılda zihin okuyucuların da olduğu bir dünyayı tasvir ediyor.
Esper adı verilen bu zihin okuyucu kişilerin varlığı ve bu bağlamda kullanımları suç oranlarını düşürmüş, hatta cinayeti tamamen ortadan kaldırmış durumda çünkü insanlar cinayet planladıkları anda Esperler bunu fark edip gerekli yerlere bildirmekle görevliler.
Ben Reich yaratılan bu güneş sisteminin bir çoğunu içine alan dünyanın en güçlü adamlarından biri ve rakibi olduğu şirketin sahibini başka türlü yenemeyince onu öldürmeye karar veriyor.
Bir yandan ise Yüzü Olmayan Adam'ı içeren kabuslar görüyor ve bunun sebebini çözemiyor.Yorumlaması gerçekten zor bir kitap ve tam bir bilimkurgu klasiği.
Ben daha önce benzeri bir esere rast gelmedim (Bir benzerinin olabileceğine de inanmıyorum).
(Is it a spoiler if I really don't know what it is?) But, the revelation of what the Demolition threat really means, and the final scene about "Maybe in those days they wanted sheep," that's pretty damn good.Like all old sci-fi, it's irresistible to compare the "future" to what's come to pass since it's written.
Actually.I can't, though, let this book go without saying that its misogyny makes it really hard to enjoy.
I don't like reading around this, but I know some readers don't mind it, and some enjoy the sort of pulpiness about it.So they can rate this higher, whatever.
Not only because of the well-thought out telepathy, the story also has some fun SF speculation about life on Venus and Mars (with characters taking interplanetary jaunts in rockets), and wonderfully weird futuristic buildings, despite very 1950s social structures.
The early chapter where the villainous Captain of Industry plays a game of cat-and-mouse with the heroic Esper Police Prefect is perfectly paced tension-building.I really enjoyed these parts of the book, so it's a shame that the rest of the book has dated so badly.
The book's Big Questions involve how to commit a murder in a society patrolled by citizens with ESP (espers), and how to catch said murderer.
I found it to be a quick and interesting read, but my enjoyment was hampered by the fact that I didn't really like any of the characters.
Other detractions involved some messy changes of perspective, and a whole lot of overwrought exclamation-mark-happy dream imagery.That's not to say there's nothing to like.
My favorite parts of the book involved the esper culture, its school and code of conduct.
And so the computers of the future are still giant punch-card reading machines, albeit punch-card readers with innovative uses.
Not only are nearly all the female characters lovely, inneffectual young ladies being cast aside by by powerful older men but the ont exception is a powerful older man falling in love with a literally infantalized expression of various Freud-based concepts.
When we realize that he's not really the lead (though still supposedly admirable), it's only really to realize that there is no proper protagonist, as early interest and tension settle into an unexciting implausible police procedural, where the reader already knows all the major points.
Okay, there's a twist, but it's only back into those strained Freud-bits.HOWEVER I can't totally write this off, as it's actually pretty innovative in a lot of ways.
Ben Reich, döneminin en zengin iki iş adamından biridir ve haklı olarak kapitalist bir düzene hizmet etmektedir.
Bu düşünce onu kusursuz bir cinayet planı düşünmeye itecektir, lakin hesaba katması gereken çok önemli bir şey daha vardır: 21.
Dünyanın bu denli iyiye gitmesinin sebebi ise elbette Esper adı verilen Düşünce Polisleri ile alakalıdır.
Cinayet düşüncesine sahip kişileri dahi telepatik yöntemlerle bulup yakalayan Esper Loncası’na bağlı polislerle büyük bir mücadeleye girişir Reich.
Polis şefi Lincoln Powell ile Ben Reich arasında geçen kovalamaca gerçekten de nefesleri kesecek cinsten.
I read this as a little lad.Fun, its notions of telepaths, on reflection, may well have gone on to influence Philip K Dick.It's central idea that criminals should be rehabilitated and returned to function in society remains science-fiction however, indeed one has to wonder where writers get these crazy ideas from.
Eight, sir; seven, sir;Six, sir; five, sir;Four, sir; Three, sir;Two, sir; one!Tenser, said the Tensor.Tenser, said the Tensor.Tension, apprehension,And dissension have begun.
Sevmedim, bana göre değildi.Ne diline, ne dünyasına, ne karakterlerine hiçbirine ısınamadım. Elimde süründü zaten. :P
It was really fascinating to try to see this book through the eyes of it's contemporaries, give or take a few decades.
As a cat-and-mouse tale it was solid and fascinating.
I've read much, much worse, but honestly, it's still good even for today's writing.
It's just has a different speed and focus.I especially loved to recall how many other subsequent writers have taken pages from Bester's book, great reused ideas, sometimes done better, often done much worse.
