https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/59649.Working
like any studs terkel book, you start off like "wow, everyone has a story" and then 400 pages later you're like "jesus, EVERYONE has a story."
Working will transport you, not just into the working lives of others, but into a different, and in many ways alien, era- the United States of the 1960s and 70s.This is a phenomenal window into the lives of others- Turkel interviewed flight hostesses, steelworkers, company presidents, admen, autoworkers, the unemployed, janitors, gravediggers, community organisers, cops… the list goes on, and almost every interview is a winner.
In others it saddened me - the foundations for present day unresolved race issues are clearly visible, and precarious work is still as depressing and life-limiting for people in 2016 as it was decades ago.I really can’t recommend this book enough.
In turn, Stud Terkel’s Working is, in my eyes, one of the most important books I’ve ever read.
Nearly 700 pages of often moving, intense interviews with workers across all sectors and income levels, Working functions both as an important historical document and impetus for raising vital questions about how we spend our time on this planet.Terkel stays largely out of the way of his interviewees; they seem surprised as they arrive at their own responses, as if they’ve not thought this deeply before about, say, selling cars, working in a factory, or leading a corporation.
The way we make our living is radically different from how our ancestors did; and yet work, nowadays, seems like the most natural thing in the world, more eternal and more important than marriage.
This lack of scrutiny is especially striking, considering that our jobs dictate our social status, consume most of our time, and are usually the number one thing we complain about.So what are the common themes of these interviews?
It’s not just the assembly line worker whose job is too small for his spirit, you know?
This book was to some degree a political gesture when it was written--a radical reassessment of which lives are worth documenting and which voices worth being heard--but it would be a shame to read it that way.
What this book is is what life feels like during the hours you don't choose for yourself--as told by airline stewardesses, union bosses, factory workers, CEOs, car salesmen, whatever--and there's as much humanity in here as in any novel.
Studs Terkel opens Working with one of the most stirring sentences I have read of late: "This book, being about work, is, by its very nature, about violence - to the spirit as well as to the body." And although Terkel's voice and narration are only present for the following 13 pages of the Introduction, giving way to 600 pages of the voices of others, the power of his intent resonates through to the back cover.
Published in the early 1970s, Working captures and seals a moment in time.
This moment bursts with voices and stories from workers across America.
I think that in today's climate of reality TV and everyone trying to sell their story or seek their "15 minutes" that the interviews for this book couldn't have been done with the un-selfconsciousness with which they were done 30-plus years ago.
Short little 1/2-4 page interviews with people about their jobs.
There is the stockbroker that admits getting into the stocks is going to have you losing money, the housewife, the executive secretary (this was published n the 70s), the mason, hotel operator, newspaper carrier....
I have to admit that the short pieces was also appealing to me, I like to pick out a story or two read them, put it down, pick out another...
Only 4 stars so far as it can get a tad bit boring, the stock broker goes on for 5 or 6 pages and I don't think is necessary...A bit depressing, good god doesn't anyone like what they do?
I want to live and feel all the shades, tones and variations of mental and physical experience possible in my life.
And I am horribly limited.”Thankfully, there are books like "Working".
They want to feel bigger than a replaceable cog in the machine.
This leads to many bleak and repetitive accounts, but it makes those who take pride in their work all the more refreshing, like the grocery store clerk who does a little dance as she checks out items, or the stonemason who daydreams about the technical challenges of building a house entirely of stone.
But now I have a vague idea of what that experience was like, and I feel a little less limited.
I've read about 250 pages, which is one-third of the way through, but with the end so far on the horizon, I'm ready to give up.
Since the book is structured in individual interviews, can always pick up again some other time.
On the other hand, almost every one of them has something interesting to say, and they really do give a picture not only of their jobs, but of the times.
The film critic said, "Don't envy movie actors and screen and print writers for making a lot of money.
His wife has been gradually divesting herself of his possessions, among them many books, several of them by Studs.Dad was a great fan of classical music and a bit of a leftist.
A bit of a leftist himself, the McCarthy perseculations of the fifties threw him out of the networks and into the arms of "Chicago's fine arts station".I grew up listening to WFMT because Dad played it from the time he awoke until he went to bed every day of the week.
An excellent book, this is the third I've read by Studs Terkel - the others "Hard Times" and "The Good War" were equally great.We all go through life making assumptions about others.
Terkel talked to people from every walk of life - CEOs and high paid executives down the social ladder to garbage men and janitors.
All of these people are able to express their emotions and discuss not only what they do for a living but what it means to them.
This book is a wake up call not to judge people by what they do.
I'm a fan of both Studs Terkel and of oral histories, so this book was a win-win for me.
Terkel interviews people from all walks of life about the work that they do and how they feel about their occupations.
It's apparent in these short oral histories that Terkel isn't making judgments about certain occupations.
However, the fact that this book was published in the early 1970s is very apparent--because of the political overtones and because of the pro-union sentiments that pervade the histories.
We value certain occupations and make judgments on people based on their occupations both positively and negatively.
However, my blood soon boiled when reading of the teacher with 30+ years experience in the profession who manages to correct all her papers in class time and forgets the school "absolutely, absolutely, absolutely" the moment she walks out the door at 3.30.
Well, maybe if they got someone who could actually teach....someone like the free school principal who has about 50 kids in his centre and gives all his free time to making it work.Again the optimism of the seventies was brought forward in the stories of many who changed their lives entirely, left behind corporate jobs to strike out into something completely different, because they felt their work was dehumanising.
While the music fit into the workers' anecdotes well, I found that my attention wandered. This adaptation did make me interested in reading Terkel's book someday though.
It's fun to see the way that things have improved over the past 50 years and the way some things stay the same.
I would like to hope that some of the more hazardous jobs profiled in "Working" have been made safer for the workers.
What will the next 50 years bring?
Will things continue along the same path or is there a course-correction in the future?
As long as someone is making money off of someone else's labor the yearning, ennui and desperation of Studs Terkel's interview subjects will continue to echo down the ages.
One of my favorite books will be the most grown-up book imaginable: a big fat depressing boring book about work." (Growing up horrified me when I was small.I can remember looking up at my parents' bookshelves and thinking, "Man. Why would anybody ever want to read that?" And this book is just like that.
I think Terkel does well, although clearly most of his work is invisible.Some bits that stuck with me:1.) Frank Decker, talking about the '67 truck drivers' wildcat strike, which strikes a bunch of nerves for me: the little-kid thing again, loving big trucks, the teenage loner thing, with the romance of loneliness, and then the incredibly annoying labor militant thing, fighting the bosses, the government, and the union.
This is great. It's the grown-up version of all those Richard Scarry books I loved as a kid, like  What do people do all day?  It's interviews with over a hundred people from all walks of life about exactly that.The interviews are from nearly fifty years ago, so some things have changed, but less than you'd expect. Most of the jobs are still around in some form. Social attitudes and race relations have changed; maybe not as much as we'd like, but it's oddly encouraging to see that they really we
It's interviews with over a hundred people from all walks of life about exactly that.The interviews are from nearly fifty years ago, so some things have changed, but less than you'd expect.
Most of the jobs are still around in some form.
Many of them work in tech in some form.
How we strike the balance between work and life.
When work is just a job, when it gives us a sense of value and purpose, and when it completely takes over.
The complaints about police brutality against black males was another reminder that things can remain static over long periods of time.) The steady dose of job complaints got tiring very quickly.Sometimes the author told the stories of various employees from the same workplace (the Ford automotive plant comes to mind) who worked at unequal levels and who recalled the same events quite differently.
Also, I probably would have enjoyed the book more if I had read it in small bits over a longer period of time while reading other books along the way.
Mostly I just wanted to quit my job.It would be interesting to see what Americans would say to the same questions Studs posed in today's working world (although nobody could replace the way he asked them).
But I imagine the frustration and sense of being trapped or having made the wrong decisions remain.It was a fascinating read even though some of the topics are a little dated.
I think oral histories and surveys of the "average" citizen are among the most fascinating reads in any period of American history.
Having the expert asking the questions and drawing out the answers makes the read even more enjoyable.
Despite the fact that this is slightly outdated now, forty years down after it was collected, it is still incredibly relevant for anyone who has to get up every morning (or evening) and go to work.
It sounds like they are talking about the generation of today, when if fact it was my father's generation in question at the time.
But evidently, there is not much difference in the way the older generations view the younger generations.
I believe I'll try to make sure every one of my kids reads this book, at least before they leave college and enter the work-a-day world.
At turns illuminating and repetitive, two major themes emerge:1) "Those on the top only see shitheads. Those on the bottom only see assholes."(The relevant image Goodreads won't let me link. Quite SFW.)2) Labor with no perceptible tangible outcome is inherently dehumanizing. Without a sense of ownership over a product's craftsmanship, the soul suffers terribly. Consequently, the product itself often does, too.
Terkel was one of the only guys out there who could reliably restore my faith in the American people.R.I.P. Studs.
A few months ago, I went through my Amazon wishlist and ordered a bunch of books that had languished there for many years.
This was one of them.The premise of this book fascinated me -- talking to "regular folks" about how they felt about their jobs.
Because I'm so OCD, I will never just stop reading a book in the middle, even one like this which really lends itself to being read in bits and pieces rather than cover to cover.
It was a bit discouraging to read that some adverse work situations, particularly among women and minorities, remained sticking points even forty years later.
"We read to know we are not alone." -C.S. LewisI originally read "Working" haphazardly, looking for occupations or voices that interested me, but about a year ago I decided to read it cover-to-cover.
"Working" has been the book on my nightstand for over a year: when I'm winding down after a long day, mulling over all the ways I've succeeded and failed, lived up to expectations or disappointed people, I've read these stories of ordinary people with the same (or different) petty frustrations and triumphs in very similar (or different) circumstances.
(3) It's deepened my appreciation for oral history, particularly the way someone like Terkel has been preserved so many unique voices from the past.
Office work was sales or bureaucracy or management, not the mind work that it often is today, and has itself been often altered dramatically by automation.
1972 was a period of change as women and ethnic groups were staking claim to the gains of the previous decade, but "women's work" was still a real term and attitude in the minds of some of the workers here, and minorities struggled to be treated with equality by peers and bosses.One constant between then and now is how work defines who we are and how we feel about ourselves.
I tried really hard to like this book. But frankly it is far too long and should have been edited (read: compressed) more rigorously. Some of the accounts are fascinating but most are dull and repetitive. It honestly just felt like an indiscriminate catalogue of complaints. If the point was to evoke in the reader the same boredom that most of these people experience at their jobs then I guess Terkel succeeded, but somehow I doubt that's the case.
I finally did it.What I knew I'd love: people reflecting on their work, and what it means (or doesn't mean) to them and why.
The immediate practical aftermath of the civil rights movement and the beginning of the cynicism that bred the 80s.
The previous generation and the parents /elders of this book coming through the Depression.
(Switchboard operators, etc.) I love this book.
I especially love that I was at least 400 pages in before it occurred to me to wonder what questions Studs Terkel had asked.
He got these stories out of people without being cookie cutter, or having a transparent framework of pat questions.
The author gets workers from waitresses and steel workers to dentists and ad executives to confess what's really in their souls and how they really feel about what they do to make a buck.
The book is a large volume of transcribed confessions of working people.
Although this book came out in 1972, it feels surprisingly recent.
In many families, both parents "devote" 10+ hours to power games at work at the expense of family time, personal health, community, etc.Many jobs are "too small for one's spirit." People need to feel challenged in order to be fulfilled.
Le projet de Working est, selon moi, des plus intéressants : le journaliste donne la parole aux individus, afin qu'ils évoquent leur travail, ce qu'ils y font, la place que ce travail a dans leurs vies, la manière dont ils le perçoivent, l'importance qu'ils lui donnent.
Je n'ai pu mettre la main que sur l'adaptation dessinée, et j'ai pensé que c'était pas plus mal comme ça - le livre est quand même gros, difficile à trouver ici, et cela me donnerait un aperçu du travail de Terkel.
