https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2352390.Tarzan_Triumphant
Not great, but pretty weird. I enjoyed it.
My favorite book when I was 12.
Several different groups traveling through the jungle, a lost civilization, and a group of slave traders. Classic Burroughs, and a fun read.
The lost ancestors of an exiled Roman and a slave girl, a young female aviator who crashed in a remote volcanic valley, a naïve geologist and a Chicago gangster, a Russian spy and an English Lord on a hunting trip.
Tarzan has to find and save them all.
It’s definitely another language.
His whole way of thinking (England in London) is astounding.The only problem I have with this story is that nothing was done about the situation in Midian.Footnote: 1) Again he falls, but at least this time he didn’t hit his head and knock himself unconscious.Fave scenes: Lady Barbara descending on the parachute, Smith’s journey through the canyon, Smith sitting on the baby kid and the lion chasing the horses.
The books are becoming less savage. This one shows an interest in geology with an American geologist who find a companion in a gangster who is running from America. There is a lost tribe of Christians who have lost track of Christ's teachings and who rely more on a practice of vengeance on anything that does not suit there drab life of epileptic fits (walks with Jehovah). Once again, there is a "red" Russian--this one wants to take vengeance for the last one and joins forces with a slave trader/communist sympathizer. Great action and adventure.
En esta novela aparece poco Tarzan, lo utilizan como salvavidas cuando las cosas para los demás personajes se han tornado demasiado difíciles para que salgan solos de ellas.Entretenido, quizás ya no es tan llamativo como en las primeras novelas ya que hay mucha repetición de frases ("Tarzan, gran cazador, gran luchador", etc. y "se libera de su delgada piel de hombre civilizado").Entretiene, me ayuda a pasar el rato.
Typical of the later Tarzan novels, there is a lost civilization (this one a bunch descended from early Christians who got out of the Roman Empire but whose understanding of the faith degenerated, a girl to be rescued and some bad guys. Stalin has sent a hitman to kill Tarzan. There is a Chicago gangster. All in all good fun, ERB style.
I love Edgar Rice Burroughs' stories and his imagination was literally boundless, but he also had some pretty weird hangups about genes and even advocated some awful policies based on eugenics.
I've already touched on the racism and sexism in his books - truly awful - but the genetic stuff is just as bad if not worse.What do you do when something you love is created by a flawed human being?
I think it's something you can only resolve for yourself - for me, I can still love Tarzan but I can't imagine listening to Noah or watching Fat Albert ever again.
Ei mingeid erilisi meeldejäävaid seiku peale selle, et üks härra Trafaretne ainult pseudo-vanakooli-njuujorgi gangsterilingot plärpiv Eksgangster muudkui kutsus üht oh kui õilist ja tarka ja imekaunist degenereerunud masslangetõbeliku ja intsestliku metslasekarja haruldast esindajatibinast järjekindlalt pisiks ja totsiks, ehkki too rõhutas mitu korda, et tal on päris nimi.
Nime meelde jätta ma ise ka ei viitsind, nii et eks ma olen ilmselt sama tropp kui gangster.
Kõik muu ununes kohe peale lugemist.
Samas talutavalt jabur lugemine pühapäevaseks lebotunniks väikese kohvi ja võikuga, nii et kaks punni.
Kui üldse Tarzani-lugusid lugeda, siis ikka pigem esimesest otsast - neis vähemalt toimus põnevaid asju.
I'm determined to finish this series, but it can be a hard slog at times. It's incredible how many times Burroughs recycled the same basic story of a lost, unchanging civilization in some hitherto unexplored corner of Africa; characters who get lost, separated, and inevitably abducted within that world; a man and a woman among those characters who fall in love; and Tarzan having to save the day. I miss the earlier adventures that were more about Tarzan than random new characters who come and go.
Different characters, same basic storyline. Stalin wants Tarzan eliminated and dispatches a hitman to central Africa. Tarzan becomes involved in the adventures of a number of jungle-travellers, including slave-traders, a reformed Chicago gangster, a geologist, the hitman, an English aviatrix and an innocent blonde bombshell named Jezebel who escapes from her home in the inevitable lost 'white' civilization in the heart of Africa. The baddies die horrible deaths, and the goodies live happily ever after.
The 15th Tarzan book and Burroughs is repeating himself quite a lot by now, it's still good fun and would perhaps be more so if you haven't read all the books in the series up to this one.Like "Tarzan Lord of the Jungle" Tarzan himself isn't actually in this one all that much especially not in the first half.The best things about the book are the Chicago gangster "Gunner" Patrick and his relationship with the girl from the (inevitable) lost city, Jezebel Which provides a lot of humour a very likeable pair of characters.
I have read all 24 of the Tarzan books. Read dates are from the mid 1970s through 1982. I thoroughly enjoyed all of the Tarzan books. They made a great escape from high school and college. I still have all 24 books and they are at the top of my book shelf. I thought it was pretty neat to find the actual covers listed on Goodreads and there are no barcodes on the books, plus the cover price ranged from $1.50-1.95 for each book.
More fun in Africa with Tarzan and co. Yet another lost civilization, puritanically religious, inbred and plagued with epilepsy. Enter an Englishwoman that bails out of a plane and is taken captive. Throw in a geologist, a Chicago gangster, a band of slavers, a Russian that is intent on killing Tarzan and a fair maiden from the above mentioned civilization. Convoluted, but still entertaining!
Tarzan triumphant is a great book about a ape boy who lived in the wiled with a family of apes and which he also called his family. One day Tarzan was captured by people that wanted to do tests on him but he quickly escapes and tries to get back to his home family but along the way is quite the adventure and he gets attacked by another family of apes and his family has to come rescue him and take him home when his family
# 15 in the Tarzan series. I'm not really sure the Triumph in this story belongs to Tarzan - it focused more on the adventures of the four young people and how they managed quite well without Tarzan's help for most of the story. Although it must be said that in the end he rescued them, of course. :)
It's been a while since I read a Tarzan book, and this is truely a Tarzan book; lots of action, new characters ending up in Africa when they really shouldn't be allowed out of their home country, and Tarzan beating the crap out of the bad guy(s). Enjoyed this book as well!
Tarzan Triumphant (Tarzan #15) by Edgar Rice Burroughs (Ballantine 1931) (Fiction). Tarzan, backed by the Waziri, faces both Soviet agents seeking revenge and the minions of a bizarre ancient Christian sect. My rating: 6.5/10, finished 1973.
Another tale of people tromping around, lost in the jungle. Lots of near misses, close encounters, and, yet another lost civilization. Add to this a gangster from Chicago and oh, my! This one you read for plain old silly fun.
Adventure
GREAT reading!
I love these stories!!
Tarzan Book 15
