https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1337973.The_Diving_Pool
Okay, a few things are definitely going on here, and I'm happy to clear up the confusion for anyone who may not have my depth and breadth of knowledge on the subject.
I mean, I'm definitely familiar with self-destructive, doom-y feelings with friends and lovers of "if you only knew, and oh boy, when you do find out..." I know what it's like to feel like your soul is a wolf in sheep's clothing, and that if mind-reading existed, you'd be deservedly all alone in the universe.
The stories are told in deceptively simple prose that keeps you thinking for a long time afterward.There are thematic and symbolic strains: of memory (a sort of nostalgia?), the outward crumbling of buildings (reflecting what is within the narrators?) and the unease associated with the roles of females (including, in the first two stories, the relationship of unmarried young women to babies not their own; and, in the last, an almost passive-aggressive rebellion of a wife toward her husband).
I actually had to set this book down a few times after reading some particularly disturbing passages.Out narrator is Aya, the daughter of a husband and wife who run an orphanage.
While The Diving Pool revolves around the psychological workings of a young girl, this story draws inspiration from physical, commonplace things like pregnancy, ultrasound imaging, and food.
However, despite its reliance on the physical world, the story has a surreal quality about it, as if it were a dream laced with nightmares.Similar to The Diving Pool, the protagonist is a cool, detached woman who lives with her pregnant sister and brother-in-law.
Despite the fact I find Asian literature a bit unconventional, the more I read it, the more I like it.
You're never sure whether the story will turn into tragedy or resolve safely.
This is a twisted love story, which is expressed through various acts of cruelty towards a toddler.
The story ends with a bit of a twist.
Nameless narrator lives with pregnant sister and her husband and their life revolves food.
When the narrator’s sister recovers from several months of early pregnancy nausea, the narrator sadistically begins feeding her with grapefruit jam made from imported fruits which are potentially harmful to the fetus.
عُرف عن أوغارا شفافيتها المطلقة وحساسيتها في الكتابة وأظن أن الأدب الياباني بشكل عام يتسم بهذه السمة
I think she should have made a novel from "The Diving Pool".
I thoroughly enjoyed our hero empowering herself and expressing love through brutal cruelty to another: "Rie's terrified tears were particularly satisfying, like hands caressing me in exactly the right places – not vague, imaginary hands but his hands, the ones I was sure would know just how to please me." Yikes, huh?"Pregnancy Diary" - Eerie.
Weird.
More of Ogawa's nourishing cruelty."Dormitory" - Again, cruelty in place of communication.
Loved it.
Fabulous ending, read the last pages four times."It occurred to me that he was young to have lost so many important things: his chicken, his girl, his father."
Last year, I read Yoko Ogawa’s newest collection, Revenge – spare and unsettling tales of emotionally damaged individuals that contrast elegant prose with often bizarre situations.The Diving Pool, written nearly a quarter century earlier, provides a context for Ms. Ogawa’s trajectory as a writer.
It offers three novellas that start out gently and gradually build in intensity while maintaining their dreamlike state.In the first, a truculent teen named Aya is obsessed with her younger foster brother, Jun, a diver.
Instead, he exposed my secret as if offering himself to me.”Pregnancy Diary, the second of the three, also presents an emotionally detached narrator (as do many of the tales in Revenge).
I think the meaning between these stories would probably be best debated by those studying Japanese literature.Each of these three novellas put their characters in a pendulum of normality and evil.In "The Diving Pool" the teenage narrator lives in an orphanage run by her parents.
She is infatuated with a long term resident who dives in the local pool.
She also has an evil side when dealing with the youngest resident.In "Pregnancy Diary" a young woman records her sister's pregnancy.
A young woman returns to her dormitory where she lived during her uni days.


The Diving Pool, a collection of three novellas, is the only outstanding work of Yoko Ogawa's which is currently available in English, which I had not yet read.
This collection has been translated from the original Japanese by Stephen Snyder.The Guardian calls this tome 'Profoundly unsettling, magnificently written', and believes Ogawa to be 'one of Japan's greatest living writers.'  The Daily Telegraph writes that Ogawa 'invests the most banal domestic situations with a chilling and malevolent sense of perversity, marking her out as a master of subtle psychological horror.'  This collection, promises its blurb, is 'beautiful, twisted and brilliant.'The Diving Pool includes the titular story, as well as 'Pregnancy Diary' and 'Dormitory'.
رواية رقيقة , تحكي عن فتاة في دار للأيتام, تشاركهم إحساس اليتم رغم وجود والديها برفقتها, فتاة لا تملك وسيلة متعة سوى النظر في جسد أحد نزلاء الميتم حين خروجه من حوض السباحة, والمتعة الأخرى في إشباع قسوتها ببكاء "رييه" ذات العام والنصف تقريبًا.
رواية تكشف لك مشاعر البشر الغريبة, غربة الروح مع وجود العائلة, إحساس القسوة الذي يظهر حتى مع طفلة صغيرة, كره الأحاديث العائلية, عدم تقدير النعم التي نحن بها , قد يكون لذلك دوافع عديدة ,لكن أن تؤلم يتيمة صغيرة, لتستمتع ببكاءها ونحيبها, وتشبع إحساساً بداخلك, أمر يرفضه عقلي ولا أجد له سببًا مقنعاً !
صحيح أنها لم تكن بحجم توقعاتي, لكن الترجمة كانت أجمل مافي الكتاب, ترجمة قديرة, أعطت الروح للنص, يشكر بسام حجار على مابذله.
غريبة، ومخالفة لما هو عادي، فتاة لوالدين يديران ملجأ للأيتام، وهي تعيش بينهم، وتتعايش على عدمية وجودهما، أي أنها يتيمة كباقي زملائها، تعجب بشاب أشد الإعجاب، تفتن بجسده، وتدقق في تفاصيله أكثر مما هو يدقق فيه، لكنّها من زاوية أخرى، تعذب طفلة أو بالأحرى تتلذذ في سماع بكائها، وتتسبب عن قصد أو بغير قصد في تسميمها.إنها قصة التناقض في النظر إلى الكائن البشري، رغم أن العين واحدة، أما حوض السباحة فهو الشاهد الوحيد على كل ما سيحصل أو حصل من جريمة بين العاشقين الجدد.
You never know what to expect and whether the book is ultimately good or not, there's still that initial feeling of unfamiliarity and discovery.
I still haven't read that but could gather that it was a generally sweet, moving tale with some romance thrown in.Instead of going for that most well-known novel of hers, I decided to dip a toe in the water by going for something shorter.
I went in without reading any reviews beforehand.Let me say upfront that these stories were neither sweet nor moving.
After recently reading her wonderful book “The Housekeeper and the Professor” I started looking for her other translated works.
She feels out of sync with her family and her home.
Either way, there is always something irreconcilable between the house and me, something I can never get past.” She has a crush on one of the teenage boys in her home with whom she has grown up.
… Her lips were like two maggots that never stopped wriggling, and I found myself wanting to squash them between my fingers.” The reader starts to feel sympathy for her, but then is brought up short by sprays of thin strands of cruelty.
A novel that was supposed to come out last year never arrived, and it's been one long tease.Ogawa writes with unfettered, graceful prose that is seductive in its softness and simplicity, lending even more shock value to her dark subjects.
It's disturbing without being exploitative and grotesque.Amidst the calm writing are often wonderful images, such as a snow storm inside the house or lines like "He reappears out of the foam, the rippling surface of the water gathering up like a veil around his shoulders...." Ahhhhh.The second story, "The Pregnancy Diaries," tackles a somewhat commonplace subject in a unique way.
I recently read this book so that I could interview the translator, Stephen Snyder, for my radio show, _Translated By_.
I read this book and _The Housekeeper and the Professor_ (also by Yoko Ogawa and translated by Stephen Snyder).
I think the title story, _The Diving Pool_ was the strongest out of this collection but enjoyed all three novellas.
Apparently, before Snyder's translations, Ogawa had only been translated into French, so this book and _The Diving Bell_ are English-only readers' only opportunities to read Ogawa.
Snyder is working on translating more works of hers, though.
A teenager in love with her adoptive brother likes to take out her frustrations on a baby sister, by torturing her, as long as no marks of her activities remain.
This underwater pivot is even more beautiful than the dive itself: the ankles and hands slice through the water majestically, and the body is completely enclosed in the purity of the pool.
When the women dive, their hair flutters underwater as though lifted in a breeze, and they all look so peaceful, like children doing deep-breathing exercises.One after the other, the divers come slipping into the water, making their graceful arcs in front of the camera.
We'd rather ignore its ugliness, lest it spoil the beauty, but Ogawa takes us by the hand and makes us stare right at it.The three novellas that comprise this book all explore suppressed emotion, with her heroines' slightly off kilter view of the world and inner frustrations manifesting in a sense of detachment, and casual everyday cruelty.
She doesn't hand us all the answers, nor does she want us to feel entirely comfortable, and yet somehow, she hooks us in for the ride, and leaves us feeling bewildered in the very best way.
يوكو هي الخيط الوحيد الذي يربطني بالادب الياباني
From this list.
Ogawa's creepy stories keep me begging for more. It is like a bad addiction really. The stories are either horrifying or downright mindblowing (or both). But I love them!
throughout this 50-page short story, you delve deep into the capabilities that this girl has for cruelty and it makes you cringe so much and feel so unsettled.
This was, however, my favorite story in the book, because it made me feel so strongly towards the main character and her misdeeds.
It’s about a girl who lives with her sister and her husband and who keeps track of her sister’s pregnancy symptoms.
The third novella, The Dormitory, was the last and probably my least favorite of the three.
Truyện kể về một người đàn ông trung niên, dắt theo đứa con nhỏ hằng ngày cứ đến buổi chiều tà lại ngắm nhìn cái nhà ăn tập thể kia.
Hỏi ra thì ông bảo cảm giác nhìn nhà ăn ở thời điểm ấy bình yên hệt như bể bơi dưới mưa.
Vậy nên ông chỉ có thể ngắm nhìn nhà ăn vào buổi chiều tà, khi mọi thứ đã dừng lại.
Thói quen ấy theo ông đến tận khi trung niên.---Hẳn là luôn có một điểm, mà tại đó chúng ta nhìn lại mọi thứ thật rõ ràng, thật bình yên.
But you don’t really get that, she sucks you in her everyday-normal-life vortex with its usual dialogues and people.
But stories are chilling, although you don’t know why you feel like you are subtly creeped out.
In 'Dormitory', she writes about this sound that she can’t explain.
Or like a tremor that you hear in your ears when you’re jumping off the carousel.
You feel like you are normal, but you are actually one step away from madness.
I can’t explain it.
Ogawa’s life seems ordinary, but it’s just not.
This is a wonderful collection of novellas!
I had very high expectations for this book, and was not let down by Ogawa's subtly creepy storytelling.Five stars for the title story - a sad and eerie tale about how the darkness within us isolates us from those we care for most.I'm less fond of the second story, Pregnancy Diary.
The non-resolution disappointed me, but I'm not surprised that nothing is explained in the end.
If all my questions were answered, it would probably take away from the surreal tone of the story, anyway.
Sometimes genuinely creepy, sometimes B-movie creepy.
I've been looking forward to reading Ogawa for some time, her writing is described as lean, subtle and nuanced which is everything I love in storytelling.
Ogawa explores her secret obsession and her cruel treatment of a another very young child at the orphanage.A woman keeps a diary of her sister's strange pregnancy.A woman arranges housing for her nephew in a building she where she roomed as a student.
Hard to tell but probably not since there are numerous other wonderful reviews for this book.
This is one of those times when for whatever reason the stories didn't grab me.
. Not horror stories, these novellas just bring out that horror side of you.. Strangely captivating and satisfying.. Totally different from  The Housekeeper and the Professor, which was what I'd expected, having heard a thing or two about  Hotel Iris.
These happen quite often and luckily, I always seem to come away with some brilliant pieces of literature.The Diving Pool is a collection of three novellas, all just as creepy and unsettling as the last.
The collection has the typical tone that comes along with most modern Japanese fiction - if you don't know what I mean, trust me, it's a thing.
I would definitely suggest picking this up if you're in the mood for something different and if you're a beginner when it comes to Japanese literature, then this might actually be the perfect place to start.
