https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/660244.Scales_of_Justice
That is until Sir Harold Lacklander asks gives his old friend Colonel Cartarette his memoirs to publish.
A few days after Sir Harold's death, the Colonel is found murdered in a very nasty way while fishing for trout in his own stretch of stream.
Could it be that something in Sir Harold's memoirs that caused the Colonel's death or is there another reason altogether?
Now he consoles himself by being surrounded by cats and kittens and trying to poach a very large trout from Colonel Cartarette's neighbouring stretch of stream.
Description: The quiet village of Swevenings seemed an English pastoral paradise, until the savagely beaten body of Colonel Cartarette was found near a tranquil stream.
Suddenly, the playground of British blue bloods has been soiled by murder and the lowest sort of intrigue.
A cute little murder mystery. But the best part is I found it on youtube read by Benedict Cumberbatch. *romantic sigh* he could make the phone book sound good. The man is a genius at acting the various roles. Oh, and the story is good, too. A who-dunnit mystery involving a fish. Apparently their scales vary as much as fingerprints. Who knew? 🤷🏼♀
A cute little murder mystery. But the best part is I found it on youtube read by Benedict Cumberbatch. *romantic sigh* he could make the phone book sound good. The man is a genius at acting the various roles. Oh, and the story is good, too. A who-dunnit mystery involving a fish. Apparently their scales vary as much as fingerprints. Who knew? 🤷🏼‍♀️
I made the mistake of telling my stepdad, a man with an interest in fishing, that I'd read a mystery in which the scales of a trout played a major role.
'How big was it?' I had completely neglected to remember this absolutely crucial piece of information and had to go back and find the passage where this important fish is introduced.
Yeah, that's a big fish--for England.
I know rivers here where the average size is seven pounds.' He then proceeded to enlighten me on the differences between fishing in England and NZ, and why there are rules against taking fish over a certain size as well as under.
And now, finally, in connection with Rich Westwood's Past Offences 1955 book signup, I've read it again.In a small but aristocrat-heavy village, Swevenings, local dignitary Colonel Cartarette is found gorily murdered at the side of his favorite fishing stream.
Called in, Roderick Alleyn and Br'er Fox soon elicit that this may well have had something to do with the fact that, on his deathbed, Sir Harold Lacklander, the blue-bloodedest of the local bluebloods, requested that Cartarette take charge of editing his memoirs for publication, and that those memoirs blow wide open a long-held guilty secret.
We married and came here and he started writing some god-awful book and Rose and he sat in each other's pockets and the county called.
She will never be accepted in this closed society, and Marsh makes it clear that her loneliness and sense of rejection is the true motive for the murder.
Marsh makes it clear what Rose's future with Mark will be: "Sometimes there exists in people who are attracted to each other a kind of ratio between the degree of attraction and the potential for irritation.
Will you?" Nurse Kettle assured him that she would.' Instead of ending the book with the stereotypical young love, Marsh ends it with this "unlikely pair," who break class barriers and expectations, and give an example of a mature relationship.
She has various characters mount assaults on the dying status quo and yet in the end allows it to triumph without ever putting up a cogent defense.
The final defense of the status quo is that its greatest attacker is a bad person.The murder itself is, for Marsh, excessively grisly although one only learns of that in dribs and drabs.
If it were not for the many character distractions and for Alleyn unwillingness to act as a police officer rather than a 'gent' the murder would be blatantly obvious and the case would have been rolled up in a matter of hours.
This one is solid, but not spectacular. Mostly, I enjoyed it. It's a murder in a small English village. The character work is solid. The mystery ends up hinging on fish scales, which is a bit of a novelty.It does really emphasize Marsh's tendency to have the unlikeable characters be guilty, while the likeable ones are almost always innocent.
Nurse Kettle makes her rounds of the four families in the community: the blueblood Lacklanders, Octavius (Occy) Phinn, Commander Syce, and the Cartaretts.
Sir Harold Lacklander, a former ambassador, lies dying and sends for Colonel Cartarett to ask him to edit his memoirs.
Once the colonel agrees, Sir Harold lets go and passes away.
But the problems have just begun because something in Sir Harold's memoirs is scandalous, and his family desperately wants to keep it from being published.
Plus, Colonel Cartarett has been feuding over fishing rights on the Chine creek with Occy Phinn.
The second book in my 3-book sampler program of Ngaio Marsh's Roderick Alleyn series was less enjoyable than the first, although still a fairly complex mystery.
This one comes about mid-way through the series and it seems to me the series (and characters have evolved some since the beginnings.
Lots of focus on the potential suspects, their lives, and how they interact with one another.
Alleyn and his sidekick, Fox, don't even make an appearance until nearly a third of the way through the book.Soon, I will finish my sampling by selecting a book from the later part of the series and thus will form a more definitive opinion on the entire series.
3.5 stars.Would have been four stars...but I figured out the murderer too easily, yet again. This was partly due to my understanding of Marsh’s psychology and clearly knowing the kind of people she would and would not make killers. With Christie, one never knows. With Marsh, I can make a shrewd guess.I liked that the murder occurred much earlier than in her previous books and I liked the various character personalities. But again, it was just too easy. For me, anyway. Still, a well thought-out murder. Great method.
Where I first learnt that trout, provided they have different backgrounds, have completely distinct scales. A situation drama of mores, manners and vulgarity - which could hardly happen today. Riveting and revolting by turns.
Brilliant title, and a really nasty story. Not easy to guess who did what and a lovely collection of characters. One of my favourite Marsh novels.
When Sir Harold Lacklander asks Colonel Cartarette to edit his memoirs, and dies with the work 'Vic' on his lips, the Lacklanders fly into a tizzy.
The colonel's daughter Rose is in love with Dr. Mark Lacklander, George's son.
Another character, Occy Phinn the cat lover, is involved, as is Commander Syce.
Phinn's son died under a cloud while serving under Sir Harold, and the Lacklanders are afraid he is going to reveal something about that.
When the colonel is found murdered, Lady Lacklander insists on calling in Inspector Alleyn, because he is the "right kind" of people.
And the only representative we see (besides the local coppers) of the working classes, Nurse Kettle, seems fine with that world order.
57) And Miss Kettle doesn't consider a member of the upper class to be above her romantic sights.
And her son, by her own admission, is an ass.Members of the upper class try to cover for each other, not knowing who is guilty of the murder and not believing one of their own capable of it.
Lady Lacklander insists on Alleyn, perhaps hoping that as her social equal he might be an ally.
Ngaio Marsh is willing to do one thing that I think is quite clever for the detective series writer and perhaps not exactly that clever to the detective, and that is to make the obvious suspect the criminal.
This is common place mystery set in a bucolic idyll, like many of her others, where it feels like we are watching the same play, but just changing costumes and character names.
That being said, I'm enjoy it enough to keep watching.
And the flirtation between the nurse and colonel was nice, even if it spoiled the colonel as a suspect immediately (it's never a lover)
Besides always writing a fascinating mystery, Marsh has created one of my favorite detective teams in Roderick Alleyn and his faithful partner, Fox. I love their relationship and the way Alleyn talks with Fox as they build their cases.
When Lady Lacklander, a woman of formidable strength (both mentally and physically) personally asks for Alleyn to investigate the murder in their little village, she seems to think that he'll know how to treat them, since he comes from the same kind of noble family.
How surprised she and her kin are when they realize that the Inspector is going to treat them just as he would any other suspects.

I was curious about the author after reading a review, in general not this book specifically, that said she was better than my beloved Agatha Christie.
Clearing that from my mind, I started with zero expectations and was pleasantly surprised.
The writing is very beautiful, with her eloquent descriptions of the settings and the interesting plot twists that connected the characters into tighter, related circles.
This book works well having such a small ensemble where everyone is equally suspicious and suspected.
In the beginning, the motives seem clear, then the characters themselves blur the lines.

#18 in the Scotland Yard Chief Inspector Roderick Alleyn mystery series. The quiet village of Swevenings seemed an English pastoral paradise, until the body of Colonel Cartarette was found. This peaceful and pretty playground of British blue bloods loses it’s pastoral beauty as secrets begin to come to the surface. Was the murder a result of submerged political scandal or a quarrel over local fishing rights or something else all together? Enter Inspector Roderick Alleyn to sort it out.
While not the worst, I felt like this plot was a lot weaker than previous Ngaio Marsh works. The climax was too obvious. I kept waiting for the big twist and it never came, which was a disappointment. I did love the setting and the descriptions of said setting... It put me into a very relaxed frame of mind. That alone saved this from being a two star review.
Benedict did an awesome job narrating the story. Having voiced all the characters of the book, Benedict was able to express and give each character their distinct and individual voice and personalities with ease. Suggestion: I would read the book beforehand to get acquainted with the characters.
Not my favorite Marsh! Aggressively twee at parts (they're fish scales. Fish scales of justice), but unusually kind towards tramps + people who are not Quite, Quite. One star added for basic humanity. : )
Amusing
This novel has a different feel from many of her others. It takes place in a small country village in England. The characters are well defined and the prose is at its typical best.
Series set in late 40’s England. A colonel is murdered with family and immediate wealthy neighbors all suspects. He’s killed by a stream at the base of the manors.
I would rate this a 2 1/2. It was an average mystery. I didn't get the feel for the characterization as in some of the earlier books and felt that the mystery wasn't as clever.
!
Very clever!
