https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/12368985-consequences
I like a smexy story featuring bare chested alphas chasing down honey's just as much as the next girl, but I also don't expect all my books to be about that.Once I accepted the fact this book was not INTENDED to make me feel tingly in my naughty bits it took on a whole new shape - one that I really enjoyed.It's very smartly written and I really give credit to the author for taking her readers into the depths of such depravity with Tony Rawlings.
I believe I'll enjoy her character much more in the second book.
There were a few parts that slowed a little due to detailed descriptions and the such but the *feeling* the book gives you makes you pay attention to everything and honestly, I didn’t want to stop.There were a few ‘lulls’ and even a point about 2/3 of the way through where I really wasn’t sure where the story was going but then as it all started to come together at the end, it really built into something I never anticipated.At 80% the events that took place just SLAMMED right into me.
I will mention the kidnapping and minor plot/character points, but I think most of this is a given, considering the book summary.Before anyone throws popcorn at me, let me clarify that I did get the concept of the story.
This was not really a kidnap story in the sense of getting to see inside the character's head as you go down that path of emotional gray areas where the lines start to become blurred.
Again, I'm going back to the other kidnap books I've read which have placed me into the mind of someone who's living through this.
If you follow my reviews, you know that I love disturbing, dark stories that feature nearly irredeemable heroes.
That is when you know a book is incredible.While I'm not a reader that shies away from violent, graphic content, this book is mostly free of such graphic depictions.
Even without the graphic details, this is one of the darkest stories that I've ever read and by far, one of the best.I don't want to give too much away, in case there are dark romance readers that still haven't read this phenomenal book.
I highly recommend it to any reader that enjoys a darker, twisted story.
I dedicate this review to Tony and Claire...Firstly Tony...There are no words to describe how I feel right now!!!I had plans for you!!!But you had to go and fcuk it up!!!And to Claire...[image error]I sincerely hope this won't be a problem again!!! Cuz I like you skank! But next time you need to listen when I say run!!!Dear Author... Please tell me this is true!!!And finally to anyone planning on reading this series...This book messed me up, I mean all I could think about was Tony!!!
Follow my rules: do as you are told, do not divulge personal information, actions have consequences, appearances are of vital importance, and public failure is not an option. OK, so I know it’s a well-worn, much overused reviewer’s cliché but I’m going to have to say it – THIS BOOK OWNED ME! I really did abandon all my responsibilities, including sleeping, as this book consumed me from the very second I started right through to finishing it in the wee small hours when I had to be up at 6am for
It’s mind-melding – Aleatha Romig has you steadily going in one direction when, all of a sudden, she just rips the rug out from under and you’re left wondering why you feel like you just got hit by a train!I have to say that I’ve seen a lot of readers on the web saying that they’re afraid to read this book because of the themes of abduction, rape and and brutality but I’d just like to allay some of those fears.
I entered into it to champion the genre I write in; to challenge the assumption that the genre is all badly written pseudo-porn for women with no redeeming artistic value and offering no reflection of ourselves or the society we live in.But this book has made me question what the hell I'm doing.
It's not just the book itself, but the incredible success its had, the thousands of great reviews it's received, its 4+ star rating on this platform.This must be the most fundamentally amoral piece of erotic fiction I've ever read.
This book, I think, struck me so hard because of what I've written in the past.
First off, I had to …my thoughts before writing this review.
'Good morning, Claire.' Was not sure what to expect with this one.
I was on a high and on a low throughout the read.
“What is love?
Love is when one person knows all of your secrets, deepest, darkest, most dreadful secrets of which no one else in the world knows.
And yet in the end, that one person does not think any less of you.” I am not going to say too much in my review as I think folks are better off just going straight in not kno
Love is when one person knows all of your secrets, deepest, darkest, most dreadful secrets of which no one else in the world knows.
And yet in the end, that one person does not think any less of you.”
I am not going to say too much in my review as I think folks are better off just going straight in not knowing too much.
I went in without reading reviews.
Most of the time I was thinking ….I nearly gave up about halfway through but persevered thanks to encouragement from friends.
I definitely did not see THAT ending coming.
FREE on Amazon US today (3/16/2016)OMG! BLURB:Every action has consequences.Waking in an unfamiliar bedroom in a luxurious mansion, Claire Nichols is terrified to discover that a chance encounter led her into the cruel hands of her abductor, Anthony Rawlings.Learn the rules to survive.Facing incomprehensible circumstances, Claire must learn to survive her new reality--every aspect of her livelihood depends upon the tall, dark-eyed tycoon who is a true master of deception. Driven by unknown demo
FREE on Amazon US today (3/16/2016)OMG!
BLURB:Every action has consequences.Waking in an unfamiliar bedroom in a luxurious mansion, Claire Nichols is terrified to discover that a chance encounter led her into the cruel hands of her abductor, Anthony Rawlings.Learn the rules to survive.Facing incomprehensible circumstances, Claire must learn to survive her new reality--every aspect of her livelihood depends upon the tall, dark-eyed tycoon who is a true master of deception.
If that happens, will either of them survive the consequences?http://www.amazon.com/Consequences-Bo...FREEBIES are often good for MORE than one day, I have gathered all my FREEBIES on a special shelf: Kindle-freebies (currently over 500 books)https://www.goodreads.com/review/list...
i always get back to this series and re-read it. 5 amazing mindblowing hearbreaking stars! my review would never do this book justice, This book is AMAZINGLY AWESOME! honestly. i'm at loss of words , That was unexpected turn of events !  Nothing is more common on earth than to deceive and be deceived.—Johann G. Seume Claire Nichols had a debt of $215,000.”, credit card ,a car , appartement , college loans ! Until she met him at a bar ! He knew everything about her and thats where i got confused
He payed her debt and she had to work for him, he used her for his own pleasure , brutally tortured her she hated him , everything about him made her sick, sometimes he could be a really nice gentelman and a perfect lover who made her feel special and loved and she wanted nothing but to be with him and other times he was a her worst nighmare a monster who torrmented her and all what she wanted is to flee away from him I have love/hate relationship with this book , i hated Tony at first for being a real asshole , he could be really gentle and sweet and sometimes brutal and heartless and violent !
Criminal penalty is 7 years for claire !
Claire contemplated her actions.
ME , AFTER READING THIS BOOK :THIS BOOK IS JUST PHENOMENAL !!!!!!!
I JUST WANT TO CRY RIGHT NOW ...
IN A DARK CORNER ...
I ......Edit : 16/Oct/2012   The trust of the innocent is the liar’s most useful tool ~ Stephen King  Its very rare that I come across books that leave me speechless and make me want to talk endlessly at the same time !
And I can safely add that THIS is one of those books .
What a story ...
!! There are so many things running in and out of m
Its very rare that I come across books that leave me speechless and make me want to talk endlessly at the same time !
" If I could bitch slap myself right now , I'd do it ..This is definitely not one of those stories that we've already read .
where questions that you will find yourself asking will not yield you the answers you need or want ...
Seriously just read the book , you'll know what I'm talking about !!!!I have just one single , tiny complain ..
WTH!!!! I WASN’T EXPECTING THAT ENDING!!!!  The last 10 percent of this book deserved the 5 stars. It was just so shocking and crazy. While reading this book, all I wanted to do was throw my kindle at the wall because I was so freaking frustrated. This book was so good!! It’s a dark, intense, twisted, emotional mind fuck kind of story. I thought I had the ending figured out and then BAM!!! something totally different happens. MIND BLOWN!!!!At first, I felt really bad for Claire because she was t
While reading this book, all I wanted to do was throw my kindle at the wall because I was so freaking frustrated.
It’s a dark, intense, twisted, emotional mind fuck kind of story.
At least, she can say it was worth it in a way if she got some kind of revenge against him especially for that ending.
And yet in the end, that one person does not think any less of you.""The worst thing you can do for love is deny it; so when you find that special someone, don't let anyone or anything get in your way.""I've learned that people will forget what you said, people will forget what you did, but people will never forget how you made them feel.""I love you not only for what you are, but for what I am when I am with you.
"Life is not what it's supposed to be. It's what it is. The way you cope with it is what makes the difference." ~ Virginia Satir  Two words to describe this book?Hmm... Let me think...Oh, who am I kidding... Obviously, my response would be: First of all, let me just say Consequences was an INSANE, INTENSE and INTRIGUING roller coaster ride AND I LOVED EVERY SECOND OF IT!!! My emotions were pretty much all over the place while I was reading it. They went from rage to disbelief to shock to confus
The story of Consequences starts when Claire Nichols, a young, independent waitress from Atlanta, meets the enticing and attractive business man Anthony Rawlings at the bar where she works.
What Anthony wants is for Claire to understand that every action has a consequence.
As long as Claire follows these rules; there will be no negative consequences.
She knows about Anthony's troubled personality and about the way he treats Claire, still she keeps on defending him at all times.
I have got to say, she writes a damn good story!If you have not read CONSEQUENCES, then congratulations!
First of all, I feel the need to disclose that CONSEQUENCES is not a fun and fluffy book – entertaining, mysterious, scary and frustrating – yes, yes, yes and yes!
Reading CONSEQUENCES was like being on an emotional rollercoaster and I am still reeling.
It was exhausting.I love it when the author throws the reader a curve ball and that is exactly what Aleatha Romig does in CONSEQUENCES.
CONSEQUENCES is definitely a book you have to read.
CONSEQUENCE (noun)-A result or effect of an action or condition.Warning for would-be-readers--This is not a ROMANCE.Then what is this?A pschycological thriller with mind-games?A mind-boggling puzzle?Or shall I simply go with the others and call this a MIND F*UCK? "The fade into conciousness happens slowly..." (And thus the game begins!)Claire fades into conciousness.She can feel the warmth of soft sheets and a thick comforter against her skin.And there is something nagging at the back of her min

I've been on the brink of committing a terrible crime. I've been sorely tempted to destroy this book. That's how enraged I was by its contents. Sexual abuse is not sexy. Mental abuse is not sexy. Physical abuse is not sexy. (view spoiler)[ He kidnapped her, beat her, raped her, threatened her friends and family. But wait it gets worse. Despite his violent outbursts and psychotic behavior, she falls in love with him. How wonderful. (hide spoiler)]I love me some good villains. I've been known to
I've been on the brink of committing a terrible crime.
I've been sorely tempted to destroy this book.
That's how enraged I was by its contents.
Sexual abuse is not sexy.
Mental abuse is not sexy.
Physical abuse is not sexy.
(view spoiler)[ He kidnapped her, beat her, raped her, threatened her friends and family.
But wait it gets worse.
Despite his violent outbursts and psychotic behavior, she falls in love with him.
How wonderful.
(hide spoiler)]I love me some good villains.
I've been known to root for them.
However, there is a line that shouldn't be crossed.
until I reached the end and I was like 'YES, Tony is crazy.'"I hate Tony more than I hate Carol from Reason to Breathe and Ashley, Keesha, Carrie, Mr. Owen from Pushing the Limits put together!!" were one of my few first thoughts of this book..
Fucking hell, that line shivers down my spine!!The book is worth it only for the last few chapters, Only those chapters made it seem like a Mystery and Thriller.
But fucking hell this book is BRILLIANT and I hate Tony, but yet some part of my likes him..
May is the month of Buddy-reads!! With no prior knowledge of this book, other than it is free on Kobo, I decided to join my girlies, Nenia, Kat & Heather for this one.Start Date: May 18, 2015 1 StarReview to come.... after:Review, of a sort: (I am not wasting much bloody time on this one, guys. You can see by that one star I HATED it and there are several detailed reviews - Kat's and Heather's to name two - explaining in detail the reasons why. Instead I give you this.) How to become a victi
With no prior knowledge of this book, other than it is free on Kobo, I decided to join my girlies, Nenia, Kat & Heather for this one.Start Date: May 18, 2015 1 StarReview to come....
by Claire Nichols*1)	Completely IGNORE all controlling and predatory behaviour upon meeting someone (these traits are definitely not concerning, money and fine clothes however are worth noting).2)	When you find yourself in a situation not to your liking (eg: rape, captivity or physical assault) one should NEVER search out weapons or manners in which to escape, that would just be disrespectful.
Oh God…How do I review this book?Do I like stories with over the top assholes, stalkers, controlling freaks, abductors?
I DODo I like stories with Stockholm syndrome where the girl falls in love with her rich and famous abductor and they live happily ever after?
Or she was trying to emphasise the end result.
I may have read similar stories, but not executed like this.
And because after I saw the real Tony, I want to see the real Claire.This review has become a long internal monologue, but I think I will leave it like this.
Anthony Rawlings.It all started with a signature Ex-meteorologist Claire Nichols is a bartender working at a restaurant called Red Wing in Atlanta.
Sometime during the wine and talk of business, life in Atlanta and careers Anthony says to Claire“You know, your destiny could be as simple as an offer and a signature away.”He then takes a Red Wing napkin and tells her to pretend it's a contract, but not just any contract.
And believe me...there was a lot of pain and anguish in this book.AnthonyRomig did a very good job with building a love/hate relationship for readers in regards to Anthony.
THIS REVIEW WAS POSTED AT ANGIE'S DREAMY READS THERE IS ALSO A SIGNED PAPERBACK OF CONSEQUENCES AND TRUTH UP FOR GRABS ON THE BLOG. HEAD OVER AND CHECK IT OUT IF YOU ARE INTERESTED  4.5 CRAZY GOOD STARSWell...Where do I start??? WOW WOW WOW!This book was completely surprising and left me tongue tied and a bit speechless. I know?!! Me being speechless is pretty rare!! I almost always review a book the moment I finish with it but with this book I needed a couple days to think about it, to really l
It’s really crazy but basically every action Claire takes has a consequence in this book.
Seriously you do not want to love him but as you read the book you can’t help it.
It’s just one of those books YOU NEED TO READ and make up your own mind on.
I also feel that you need to pay attention while reading (serious attention)  because I get the feeling that a bunch of things that happened in Consequences somehow tie into Truth the second book in the series.
Claire didn't mind, the weeds had pretty flowers.
Yes, Claire liked weeds."["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>
3.5 I'm still questioning my sanity after reading this stars She made a decision, and that decision would have consequences. How do I even begin to review this book? What a dark, torturous, crazy, fucked up ride! I'm not sure I'm right in the head after finishing it. I'm not sure I'm right in the head for even starting it? I couldn't put it down. I looked like one of those crazy people that talked to themselves through the whole thing. I must have been yelling and swearing in 5 different languag
3.5 I'm still questioning my sanity after reading this stars
What a dark, torturous, crazy, fucked up ride!
I'm not sure I'm right in the head after finishing it.
For those that are reading the labels and expecting an erotic romance or even a romance...well you're in for one hell of a surprise...when you don't fucking get it!
How the fuck are people Team fucking Tony?
It just got way too wordy and lengthy and I found my interest waning in those parts.
This book fucked me up!
I'm questioning my sanity for reading it.
I started this book because it had been compared to The Dark Duet Series by C.J. Roberts , which is one of my fav series of the year.It was NOT at all like it.Most people smack a big 5 stars on this book because it is a bloody mindfuck.
The ending really only gave it another 2 star.This book is bloody boring.
Actually it gets more than a little old, it was like watching paint dry; it was that boring.
Sure, abused women do often end up staying with their abusers due to the gradual eroding of the self-confidence and the belief that they are totally dependent upon them.
Consequences is one of those books that has been sitting on my kindle for years, and I always meant to read it but you know how it is.
I don't want to give much away in terms of plot, this really is one of those books where the less you know the better.
I was enraptured by this story and these complicated characters.My only complaint was from about 60-80% marks in the book, there seemed to be excessive descriptions of things, almost like a Kristen Ashley novel, you know with the clothing and furniture?
At first, I thought that Consequences would be a book about a controlling alpha-male millionaire and how he romances a young, beautiful girl who is in debt and saves her, but this was not fluffy romance or an erotic novel.
It is the dark story of a strong young woman trapped in a very abusive relationship with a powerful man that has ulterior motives.
It reminded me of Sleeping with the Enemy (Julia Roberts' movie) and Seduced in the Dark, but with a brilliant twist full of suspense, revenge and deceit.I never understood how intelligent women could allow themselves to be trapped in abusive situations, but the more I read Consequences the more I kept hoping that Anthony would change.
5 STARS ★★★★★ OMFG!!!! WHAT A STORY!!!!![image error] Honestly, I don’t even know where to begin to properly describe my feelings about this book without coming across as a raging lunatic. In fact, every sentence I think up is riddled with words like FUCKING HELL, MOTHERFUCKER, COCK-SUCKING BASTARD, SPAWN OF SATAN… are you getting the picture here?   “Actions have consequences, I have told you that. Why is that difficult for you to understand?”  I have not felt this much hatred for a character i
WHAT A STORY!!!!![image error]
Honestly, I don’t even know where to begin to properly describe my feelings about this book without coming across as a raging lunatic.
I have not felt this much hatred for a character in a while… and I LOVE IT!!!!!!!
The yin and yang of good and evil, therefore an extremely dangerous adversary to have.
It was okay to want her, dominate her, and control her.
It was not okay to want to be with her, please her, and love her.
just know that this book is amazing… it is dark… and it will piss you the fuck off!!!
She suffered like all humanity, because humanity, as Adam and Eve's heir, must suffer the consequences of Adam and Eve's wrong / bad choices.Claire had to pay for her (view spoiler)[grandfather's mistakes.
(hide spoiler)]Anton / Anthony / Tony also had to suffer consequences.
So Tony also had to suffer the consequences of his grandfather's wrong / bad choices and actions.
(hide spoiler)] I just think he enjoyed his "suffering" more than Claire.
I was struggling with it the second time as well, I complained that I wanted to feel the book, rather than get reports on the characters' actions and inner turmoils.
At first I was very angry with her for not trying harder to escape but eventually Anthony’s abuse got to me as well, until I was shouting at the book "Claire don’t do that you are going to make him so angry, please just make him happy".
“Does he want a ‘well done’?” *shaking my head* Why not rate it a perfect 5?The first half of the book kept me riveted, but then it spirals out of control in this never ending drama and non-stop introspective from Claire who acts immature and naïve at times.
Well....well....well..... "Hello, Claire." I swear Hannibal Lector came to mind on more than one occasion in this book.   I'd like to say the second time around reading this I enjoyed it just as much. Unfortunately, I dropped my rating to four stars. Still, that's a great book, just not stellar. I found myself bored with all the insane details throughout this book. By around 60% I was skimming.....pages upon pages of skimming. I don't need a play by play of their diet, her wardrobe, what they di
"Hello, Claire." I swear Hannibal Lector came to mind on more than one occasion in this book.
Still, that's a great book, just not stellar.
Why it's tagged erotica, I have no clue.
This is NOT erotica.
I'd love to say I'm on team Tony but nope...and I've read Truth.
Still not on a Team Tony.
Two more words for you....
Two more words for you....
Or maybe these two words.....
Now Claire, I'll try and forgive you for being a weak, pathetic heroine for this whole book.
So, this will NOT be a response from reading this book!
Consequences is one of those books that consumes you…...
it gave me some answers but I believe there's still a lot more to come.
this story is worth it's weight in book dark gold, by the time you get to the end you'll be hooked.Tony, Tony, Tony...
she's strong, resilient, resourceful, loving, caring....
I spent a lot of time wondering what was going on…???
It kept my mind working but I was NEVER bored...
♥ BR ~ I was fortunate enough to read and share the ‘Tony' experience with a group of passionate book loving ladies....
