https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1257797.Youth_and_the_Bright_Medusa
If you care for 20thC American Lit, you love Willa Cather.
She breaks hearts in a few sentences.
Cather tops any American Lit List with Edith Wharton and Scott Fitzgerald.
Who else is there on top 20th tier?
In spare, concise style she digs into emotions and dreams.
This fine collection includes 'Paul's Case' (lad in midwest plans an escape with No Exit); 'A Wagner Matinee' (elderly aunt fr Nebraska meets nephew in Boston for a final, naked moment at a Wagner concert); 'Coming, Aphrodite!' (a young aspiring NYC painter luvs a young aspiring opera singer, but.--Well, this short is of novel substance about careers forged with a worldly irony that shatters).Writes Cather, "A big career takes its toll, even with the best of luck." Cather knew-- and felt -- far too much.
An American Great.
After letting it sit, I picked it up, read the remaining stories, and decided that what I was reading was a set of variations on a theme.
The theme was the contrast and conflict between artists or people who aspired in some manner to the "artistic life" versus the rest of society.
Ms. Cather obviously was a fine writer and almost every story has its jewel-like moments.
To Ms. Cather's credit, her artists aren't always completely pure, but the contrasts between them and the rest of the world is too distorted to completely ring true with me.
The stories in this collection are mostly set in NYC and Boston, and they're all about artists - writers, musicians, sculptors - and their relationship to society. There are stories about glitter, about inspiration, and about expectations. They are all beautifully written.
The life of Cressida Garnet is not like the one you imagine when you think of a prima donna.The next two stories are both fleeting glimpses into the world of the petite, zesty Kitty Ayrshire, the best of which is 'A Glass Slipper', where she has a chance encounter with a stolid businessman who was clearly bored at her concert, challenging him to entertain her on a train journey.Moving away from the divas now, 'Paul's Case' is the tragic tale of a flighty youth at odds with the drabness of reality who longs for the transportation offered by luxury and the arts.
I reread Cather's short stories every few years. She has a radiant, powerful punch for me which few writers share. "A Wagner Matinee" is brilliant. "Coming, Aphrodite" would make a stunning movie.
Eight short stories: Coming, Aphrodite!; The Diamond Mine; A Gold Slipper; Scandal; Paul's Case; A Wagner Matinee; The Sculptor's Funeral; and A Death in the Desert.
I really enjoy Cather's storytelling and the way she uses words to define the location and characters.
There are lots of artistic characters (singers, musicians etc.) or settings in these stories and references to the great plains and deserts that will appear in her other work.
These stories work a lot of feeling into shorter stories that do a great job of pulling the reader into their world and their artistic accomplishments, goals, or desires.
"Miss Cather's book is more than a random collection of excellent tales. It constitutes as a whole one of the truest as well as, in a sober and earnest sense, one of the most poetical interpretations of American life that we possess."-The Nation
I kept thinking all the stories of musicians, singers and travelers were inter-related and would all wind back around to a crossing of their paths. Alas, I was wrong and disappointed. The first story of the painter and singer neighbors was the best one.
It is the most focused Cather is the entire collection."A Gold Slipper" is a nice story with a good solid interaction between an old stick in the mud and progressive feminist Kitty Ayrshire.
It's perhaps not as relevant today as it would have been a hundred years ago, but that said it is still a fascinating read.The next story "Scandal" follows the same basic idea as "Gold Slipper" and indeed stars Kitty once again.
I wouldn't call it a bad story, but if you were going to skip one in the collection, this might be it."Paul's Case" is moving if a bit standard by today's measure.
This book is a collection of short stories that Willa Cather published in various periodicals between 1905 and 1920.
Four of them, I believe, had previously appeared in an earlier short-story collection, The Troll Garden.
With one exception, the stories are about the lives of various artists, mostly female singers, but include one painter, one sculptor, and indirectly, one composer.
The stories are written in Cather's calm, but realistic, style.
She doesn't much romanticize things, but shows life as it is.
Cather is a true gem and I should be ashamed of myself for not having discovered her some half century ago.
With four new stories and four previously published in The Troll Garden, I didn't find much new to fall in love with...too many opera stars/famous girls. Of the four new stories (Coming, Aphrodite!, The Diamond Mine, A Gold Slipper, and Scandal) Coming, Aphrodite! was certainly the fullest, with vivid scenes and interesting characters. Of the four republished stories (Paul's Case, A Wagner Matinee, The Sculptor's Funeral, and A Death in the Desert) A Wagner Matinee remains my favorite. It contains that real warmth of spirit and reflection that I love about Cather.
Beautiful characterizations, it felt like each story was composed of two or so portraits, they would have very thick and primary coloring. Most of the settings she writes about tend to be portrayed as either full of air and light or dark and rot, environments that typically inspire sort of lacy prose. I like how Cather writes of just human flesh... the interplay of justness/justice in these stories is really great, added a billion more books from Cather to my reading list)))
Purely beautiful. A collection of stories about artists in the ever-romanticized 1920s deviates from Cather's normal tales of the American pioneer front, but the stories are resounding and melancholy in the most touching way.
There are eight short stories in this collection, but the final four were also in The Troll Garden, which I'd already read, so that made for a quick read--bonus!"Coming, Aphrodite!" may be one of the best short stories I have ever read. Simply perfect.
I thought I adored everything Willa Cather wrote. Turns out I just read the best stuff first. This? Meh. Sure didn't keep me awake at bedtime, I'll say that for it! The plot wandered and the characters never took shape.
This is a collection of short stories, most of which feature young female opera singers as the main character, but the storylines and settings are all very different. Not my favourite of Willa Cather's work but still very readable. This is available from Project Gutenberg.
I've been really impressed with what I've read of Cather's work so I thought I'd check out her short stories. I was reminded why I enjoy her writing so much. She's so descriptive, even in the framework of the short story.
A bunch fo short stories. Some gems, some will stay with you, some just good.
A worthwhile read, but not as good as Cather's novels.
Love Cather's descriptive abilities. Series short stories.
Whether it be the first reading, or now on perhaps the 30th reading-Paul's Case and Coming, Aphrodite remind me why I love the written word.
Another collection I'm surprised that I read so early. I thought I had started reading Willa Cather in my 30s, not my 20s.
Four stars just for Paul's Case - all the others are cranky, elitist, erudite, urban, ugh. Not happy stories.
More like a 3.8
Willa Cather really understands the love-hate relationship I have with my hometown. She understands being an artistic soul in an agrarian culture. She gets me. Thanks, Willa.
Top-notch writing. Plots could be more interesting.
