https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/13055592-redshirts
I'm saying I actually laughed out loud in the restaurant where I was reading it.
He writes snappy, clever sci-fi with good plot and action.
If this book wasn't so entertaining, I'd want to send some big, broad-shouldered men around to his house to look menacing and say things like, "Mr Rothfuss is worried about some of the writing you have been doing in his neighborhood.
When Mr. Rothfuss gets worried about things, sometimes people get mysteriously hurt.
With an axe handle." So yeah.
Thanks for the early look at the book, Scalzi.
The negatives: you won't be as funny as you think you are, the cleverness of your premise will be worn thin even at a three-hour reading length, and all of your characters will sound exactly the same as not only each other, but all of the characters in all of John Scalzi's novels (more specifically, they will sound like a blog post by John Scalzi).
4.5 starsRe-read 2017My original feeling for the book stand, but I did find the 3 Codas at the end seemed a tad more tedious and unneeded this time around. Orignal review: 2015 Fanfuckingtastic!  I could totally slap myself for not reading this sooner.The premise of this story is that Andy Dahl and a group of his friends, who all work aboard the starship Intrepid, start to notice a troubling pattern happening on the Away Missions.And they aren't the only ones who've noticed...Does everyone know
And, inevitably, Ensign Redshirt ended up as cannon fodder.Death by exploding rock!So, after watching the show for any length of time, you knew what was going to eventually happen to anyone who happened to be wearing the wrong color in an uncharted area of space.Death by zappy-beam!Which is hilarious when you're watching re-runs and playing a drinking game!But maybe it wouldn't quite so funny if the Redshirts were real characters?Although, I laughed my ass off at Andy and his friends the entire time I was reading this, so that blows that theory right out of the water.I wasn't all that surprised that I thought this was funny, but I was really surprised that I was totally invested in the plot.
"There's something seriously wrong with this ship," Dahl repeated."Yeah," Finn said. "I think you might be right." My face when I figured out what was going on I loved the original Star Trek so much and I still watch it to this day 😄 So the idea of this book having references to the show was cool. There are a group of people that are tired of being killed on the show. They don't understand what is going on and are out to find out what it is.  "The red shirt," Abnett said. "You know, in the orig
My face when I figured out what was going on I loved the original Star Trek so much and I still watch it to this day 😄 So the idea of this book having references to the show was cool.
"The red shirt," Abnett said.
"You know, in the original Star Trek, they always had Kirk and Bones and Spock and then some poor dude in a red shirt who got vaporized before the commercial.
The moral of the story was not to wear a red shirt.
Overall I thought the story was great and I loved the characters!
Death... the Final Fate...These are the voyages of the Starship Intrepid.Its continuing mission,to kill naive new crewmembers,to seek out cheap thrills and easy lamentations,to boldly go where no redshirt has gone before! I knew since some time ago about this novel but until now I had been able to read it, and I am truly glad that I did it!One of the best Star Trek novels without really being about Star Trek.It's a common knowledge but again for those neophytes to the topic, let me explain that
Also, giving less value to the "life" of a character just because he/she wasn't important on the story, in a way, is like provoking an effect of not value a life if they haven't acomplished something worthy of mention in history.Killing characters always is controversial.If they became extremely popular, it can't alienate audience to keep up reading/watching any series.
I don’t want to say too much about the plot because the twists and turns are part of the fun, but I liked how the book went off in a couple of surprising directions.While I had fun with it, Scalzi’s style is becoming a bit odd to me, and that was enough to take it from four stars to three.
(view spoiler)[ If television hasn’t existed for centuries, how are all of the crew instantly aware of things like commercial breaks and the tricks routinely used to heighten the drama?
It's never a good thing to wear a red shirt in sci-fi .
. .Bad things happen to guys in red shirts .
. .But, what if they figured it out and decided to do something about it?This book was excellent.
I am very impressed with how creative, funny, and moving it is all at the same time.
It pokes fun at cheesy sci-fi television while honoring it at the same time.
Scalzi has become one of my favorites for his creativity in a genre that can easily get repetitive.
If you love sci-fi books and television, you owe it to yourself to check this one out!
Winner of the Hugo and the Locus Award, I can see the spinning wheels in the minds of the award voters / selection committee of both trophies – “A fun, unique twist on an old Star Trek gag but then he goes and ends it with an existential quest for meaning amidst spiritual ennui and isolation with a timely cultural message and pulls a satisfying ending out of the hat.” No kidding.I think it was the three codas, told from first, second and third person perspectives that put this over the top, the element in this book that lifted it deep over the centerfielder’s head and into the bleachers.
Finally, a few of the junior crew members decide to try to get to the bottom of this mysterious phenomenon and, if possible, try to find a way to end it.This book is extremely funny in parts, especially if you're familiar with the original Star Trek and some of its characters and quirks, but it's really kind of an odd book at the same time.
The rest of the book is three "codas" written from the points of view of three very minor characters from the first part of the story, telling a little more about what happened in their lives after the main story ended.
As they dig deeper, what will Andy and his friends uncover?Anyone who's watched more than two or three episodes of Star Trek knows that it's always the extra, or redshirt, that dies when the crew beams down to a planet or any other location that's not on the bridge of the ship.
Too bad this one was all wit and very little shi...
The writing actually seemed a little on the lazy side.
It just wasn't very substantial and I thought it wore a little thin toward the end.
Find all of my reviews at: http://52bookminimum.blogspot.com/ Is there anyone left on the planet who doesn’t know what a “Redshirt” is? There is?  Ha! Just kidding. Okay, for the three of you who aren’t familiar with the term, I’ll let Scalzi ‘splain it to you . . .  “The red shirt. You know, in the original Star Trek, they always had Kirk and Bones and Spock and then some poor dude in a red shirt who got vaporized before the first commercial. The moral of the story was not to wear a red shirt.
You know, in the original Star Trek, they always had Kirk and Bones and Spock and then some poor dude in a red shirt who got vaporized before the first commercial.
The moral of the story was not to wear a red shirt.
After watching various crewmates of the spaceship Intrepid be assigned to away missions where they were forced to battle things like:Borgovian land worms .
In this case it most definitely worked and I plowed through this book in a few hours.You know what ol' Jack Burton always says at a time like this?
And after saying this book reminds them of Galaxy Quest, said people usually start squeaking around in glee like manic mice.
You're welcome.Anyway, Freaking Galaxy Quest or not, the first part of this book was nothing short of awesome.
So. Space stuff pretty much bores me to death (except from Star Wars.
Yeah, I really liked that, too.Ooops, I think we just shocked Kirky and friends (view spoiler)[Spocky doesn't look that shocked now, does he?
So anyway, this was me during the first part of the book:And this was me after the BIG TWIST:Yeah, well, not really.
Damn, to think I was actually enjoying space stuff for once.
Any song whose chorus begins with "They said this air would be breathable" gets my vote.Rating: 3.5* of five The Publisher Says: Ensign Andrew Dahl has just been assigned to the Universal Union Capital Ship "Intrepid," flagship of the Universal Union since the year 2456.
Life couldn't be better...until Andrew begins to pick up on the fact that (1) every Away Mission involves some kind of lethal confrontation with alien forces, (2) the ship's captain, its chief science officer, and the handsome Lieutenant Kerensky always survive these confrontations, and (3) at least one low-ranked crew member is, sadly, always killed.Not surprisingly, a great deal of energy below decks is expended on avoiding, at all costs, being assigned to an Away Mission.
“Sooner or later the Narrative will come for each of us.”  Thanks to cultural osmosis even I, the person who (according to a colleague of mine) lost quite a few nerd points for having never seen a single Star Trek episode, am somehow familiar with the concept of 'redshirts' - the unfortunate extras whose lot is to die dramatically on screen just to pad the plot and remind the viewer that the near-invincible main characters are indeed, so to say, in a real pickle.  "In other words, crew deaths a
When the bizarre and incomprehensible to any real reason logic of TV 'Narrative' seizes control of their lives, the events and actions quickly turn rather cinematically idiotic, and a few crew members are invariably destined to die gruesome and pointless deaths while a few officers - clearly the show's protagonists - survive despite all odds.
It worked even despite the (honestly, quite unnecessary) three 'codas' stuck onto the ending if the book as though their only function was to pad the word count just a little bit.
In John Scalzi’s The Redshirts, the newest ensigns aboard the Union Capital Flagship, the Intrepid, recognize they are expendable.
Not only that, they realize that every episodic confrontation of their ship requires that a low-ranking crew member (namely them) be killed.
They do what they can to avoid the captain and the other bridge crew, but they know their days aboard the Intrepid are numbered.
Redshirts started out entertaining, but how far could Scalzi take the premise?
As it turns out, quite a distance.
Three codas worth of distance.
Most of the material up to the first coda was enjoyable.
Because this story is like an ice-cream cone.A triple scoop ice-cream cone, to be specific, one that presents a series of three distinct flavors that change as you work your way through it.
It gets better though and although the original tale ends on this flavor, the ending is still pretty satisfying and left me feeling, “Hmm that was pretty good after all.”During the first coda flavors start to change again, and as we move out of the super-meta mind trip, I realize I have become emotionally invested in these characters.
Thought number 2)The book is sort of billed as a Star Trek parody but its really not.
I’m sure I could have played the same type of game with Star Trek for when Captain Kirk kisses an alien chick, an away team picks a random guy to go the planet with them, some science gets all screwy or someone shows up on the bridge when they could have just sent a message.This book makes total fun of the fact that Redshirts or side crew are just fodder for the Sci-Fi killing machine to die in horrible and sometimes ridiculous ways.
So, I guess I went into this hoping for many belly laughs, instead I found myself snickering often.On the other hand, I read it quickly, and I enjoyed it, and it was fun.
Ensign Andy Dahl has been assigned to the Universal Union (the double U – heh) Capital Ship Intrepid.
Anyway, I think most serious sci-fi fans will not be able to help being intrigued and entertained by this book.Three and a half stars, for this funny, fast read, with my rating possibly tainted by high expectations.
3.5 starsWhat can I say? If you know about Scalzi and his relationship with readers then you already know why I would want to read something by him. To keep it short, I found this book to be mostly clever and entertaining. The part where the characters come to our universe was like breaking the fourth wall, which I just didn’t care for. But I like the way this man’s mind works. Also, have this meme in memory of our late Blueshirt:
This is a novel built on a great idea – imagine if all the disposable non-core-cast characters constantly killed for dramatic effect in sci-fi TV shows realised what was happening to them and rebelled against it, doing their damnedest to avoid going on missions with important, non-expendable crewmembers, trying to get transferred off the ship, etc.From this great idea comes a thin, ailing novel desperate for a big bowl of Description (of which there is little) and an emergency transfusion of Interesting Characters (of which there are few).
4.2 A twisted tale of the poor Redshirt extras that all became so killed on that classic TV Show. What would happen if they were real, and if they figured out their odds of death ?Funny, smart, wickedly twisted and just fun.
If you're into stuff like this, you can read the full review."Let us violate cakes together"In "Redshirts" by John Scalzi(*day dreaming*)I applied for a job to be a licensed fiction writer of sorts last year - it was working on flavour text and copy for the Star Trek Franchise.
Definitely a "specific skillset" as this Scalzi’s novel shows once again - but in retrospect I'm quite glad I didn't get the job.
I started out thinking this would be a 4 star read.
As it opens playing on the cliches of science fiction TV (specifically Star Trek) it is funny.
To say much more than that is to give spoilers but I will say that by the time you get to the "Codas" it's pretty much moved from a funny tongue in cheek science fiction "take-off" to a sad yawner.I've read books by Scalzi that are great so I had hope for this and after the "great reviews" I was looking forward to it.
This book falls into that category.To properly appreciate this yarn, you should have at least a passing acquaintance with the original TV series, Star Trek.
Somehow, by attack, plague, enchantment, etc., they are eliminated while the well-known members of the crew survive and the series continues.Starting with this premise, Scalzi creates a plot where the newer members of the crew become aware of this “casualty rate” and start to figure out ways to avoid being part of the away team.
Scalzi is very imaginative in terms of his permutations and appropriately “cheesy” when it comes to some of the monsters and plot turns.
And let's admit, Scalzi is a pretty well-known writer, having received many awards (the 2013 Hugo Award for Best Novel for this one being among them), as well as having worked as a consultant to the TV series Stargate Universe, if any of you are familiar with that show.(I have been known as a fierce fan of Stargate SG-1, although I didn't like Stargate Universe that much.)And yet, despite all the fame (I nearly wrote famousity, what??), this is the first book of Scalzi's that I have read.
At one point, I kept looking up, going "THIS BOOK!" to my boyfriend and then laughing out loud.
Ensign Andrew Dahl, who just joined the Intrepid, has learned about the away mission mortality rate up close and personal.
The story gives voice to the plight of those nameless redshirts who were slaughtered on seemingly every away mission.
Unfortunately that premise is the best part of Redshirts.After the deadly away missions have been established, the story seems to run out of ideas quickly.
I don't know that I've ever read a story this short with so many uses of the word said.Redshirts simply became uninteresting too quickly and didn't manage to come up with a worthwhile ending.2.5 out of 5 stars
I know so many times "light" and "fun" come off in the pejorative, but I rarely mean it that way.
It's far from perfect, in fact I had plenty of problems with the narrative and they mainly fall in the codas, but I'll get to it.
The way Redshirts is laid out, it is a main story followed by three codas at the end called First Person, Second Person, and Third Person.
The main story is an exciting mystery where the characters realize someone dies off each time there's a mission.
Second Person is just an annoying way to read anything.
*** 4 *** Read with the buddies form BBB, and LMAO!
This book is for every person who at any time has been enamored with Star Trek or Blake's 7, or any show of the ilk, and has a tendency to overthink them:) Also, for authors with writing block, but I am not entirely sure it would help them in actuality.
I read this in one breath, but it is very short:-) I laughed my but off and managed not to get weepy or otherwise overly emotional in the process, so it was a success!!!
Yay, I am relatively normal!Thank you guys for helping me discover this book and embrace my new found normalcy!
As a big fan of Star Trek in almost all of its incarnations, I thought for sure I would adore this audio book, especially since it was narrated by Wil Wheaton.
I  did  adore Wil Wheaton's narration.
I guess this really isn't Wheaton's fault, but maybe he could have de-emphasized the tags a bit?The story itself was a bit of a letdown.
Overall, this was a funny story that didn't make much sense, but I'm okay with that.
If you're a Star Trek fan and you like Will Wheaton, you might be okay with it too.
So meta I'm astounded my dead tree copy didn't implode under the weight of its own smugness,
