https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/747060.Pearl_of_Great_Price
September 2015---I reread this as part of a Seminary assignment my boys had. It was an amazing experience to hear my teen boys express thoughts and feelings about a book I love so much.September 2012---Of course I have read bits and pieces of "The Pearl of Great Price" before. But I have never taken the time to read it cover to cover. I am enjoying the process more than I can say. This book is full of beautiful history and instruction.
If you view this as revelation from God, Inspired fiction, or flat out fantesy, it is undoubtedly an amazing collections of writings with various styles, approaches, and doctrines. Viewed for what it is, it's great.
A pack of lies written by a frontier charlatan named Peepstone Joe. But fascinating because it's a chance to actually study a religious fiction from recent history.
Another family read. The history behind this book is great. The stories inside are great. Moving on to the Old Testament. Gabe LOVES reading long geneaologies of practically unreadable names aloud, so fun times in family scripture reading are ahead!
Good history of Joseph Smith. I love learning about someone's path to God. This is a great book.
I no longer believe this book to be what it claims to be.
It is short. Laying aside its controversial origin, it contains some simple and profound ideas.
cultic crap
The Pearl of Great Price is, I think the most interesting and enlightening piece of Mormon Literature that is included in the "Mormon Scriptures".
Supposedly, the Pearl of Great Price was a translation of these scrolls.Regardless of how the book came about, this is definitely one of the most interesting religious texts written in the modern age, and contains much of the stranger parts of Mormon Doctrine that modern Mormon's would like to deny.
If you make it to the Celestial Kingdom, you'll be allowed to procreate ad infinatum like our God and be God to your own little world.
I love that it ends with The Articles of Faith. It ties all 3 books and the beliefs of our church together so well.
The Pearl of Great Price was a quick read.
I decided my next read would be the Pearl of Great Price.
In the Pearl of Great Price you learn about some of the following:God created many worlds similar to Earth where there were also created many Adams & many Eves.
(Moses 1:33-35, 4:26, 7:30)Plants, animals, and people were created spiritually before being created on earth.
(Abraham 3:4)And Mormonism is really a polytheistic religion as the Pearl of Great Price teaches that there are multiple Gods.
(Abraham 4, 5)As this sort of doctrine contradicts the Bible I do not think that this is any more inspired by God than the Book of Mormon was.
I should really give this book Five Stars as it was amazing in that it proved without a doubt that Joseph Smith was not a real prophet and simply a product of his time.
Comparing the Facsimiles in The Book of Abraham to undamaged Egyptian Books of Breathing prove that Smith simply created a story to fit the pictures he saw.
Other story material shows the inherent racism of the early 19th century with content obsessing with black skin of humans as simply a product of God's curse on Cain and his descendants.
The Pearl of Great Price? Please...The original document was an Egyptian papyri on how they buried their dead. It had nothing to do with the Book of Abraham. A complete embarrassment to the Mormon Church that had believed black people were cursed. Retracted after they found the original Papyri. The fact that they keep the book…well that speaks volumes.
So many great things found here: Extended knowledge of heroes such as Abraham, Moses, Enoch, and Joseph Smith! Revelations about the Creation, Premortal Existence, the Apostasy and Restoration of Christ's church on the earth, the basic tenets of that church, found in The Articles of Faith. I love this book.
A very interesting book with an interesting history. I've found several of the stories very helpful. Not sure if I'll read it every year for the rest of my life, but since it is scriptural canon I'll give it 5 starts just to prevent a Hans-esque controversy. Hahahaha
Book of Abraham is one of the primary reasons I cannot believe in truth claims of the LDS church. Even Nibley could not resurrect my faith after I studied the historical components of this book. Joseph Smith was simply making it up, it is not founded on fact at all.So disappointing.
A spiritual up-lifter. I enjoy revisiting the truths contained herein.
What a wonderful book of scripture!
Another great addition to the Book of Mormon, love all of the scriptures and how grateful I have them in my life. Especially love JST of Matthew & JS History!
I won't rate this book. I read it to learn about a new area in religion and it did fulfill that purpose.
This latest read was with my husband as part of our Branch reading challenge.
There are some pretty awesome sc-fi/fantasy concepts in this particular book that I would love to see used in a novel(s).
The styles are different enough for each section that what Joseph Smith claims about the book (him translating it from papyri) could seem plausible to the uneducated mind.
However considering that the entire purpose of this document is to convince you Mr. Smith is a prophet I have to say it sincerely fails in that.I wouldn't recommend this book to anyone other than sci-fi/fantasy authors floundering for some ideas and actual Mormons.
The PoGP has been documented as an utter fraud - originalso of the scroll pieces were found in Chicago and have been reviewed by Egyptologists from Harvard and other places - the Papyri which the "Book of Abraham" was translated from is actually a permit to breathe for Horace - which is a very common death scroll. Joseph Smith had no idea what he was doing, and faked every bit of it.
These two books are clearly fraudulent. The Book of Abraham, supposedly translated from an Egyptian papyrus, contains nothing related to the papyrus, which is still extant and has been translated, correctly, a number of times. The Book of Moses is Joseph Smiths attempt to improve upon the first books of the Old Testament, which he claimed he was correcting by direct revelation from God.
Having read the previous comments I think they summed it up perfectly. Vastly entertaining, incredibly racist, unimaginable that it still exists today, lol.
This the worst pile bull hucky ever pawned off on the human race. A complete forgery of a worthless book.
I am always amazed to reread this little book. My favorite part is the 11th Article of Faith. Madison called for this to be part of our Bill of rights.
Fraud, pure and simple.
All LDS kids need to read this. It's real short too, you can read it in about a day. I'm planning on reading it soon.
Holy Moly
