https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/18943.Confessions_of_an_Ugly_Stepsister
“In the lives of children, pumpkins turn into coaches, mice and rats turn into men. When we grow up, we realize it is far more common for men to turn into rats.” I enjoy Maguire's work. He combines lively characters with literary writing.Unlike Maguire's other, wildly successful novel Wicked: The Life and Times of the Wicked Witch of the West, this retelling leaves behind magic, instead relying on a genuine historical period and uncanny characters to imbue the novel with an unworldly tone. Alth
He combines lively characters with literary writing.Unlike Maguire's other, wildly successful novel Wicked: The Life and Times of the Wicked Witch of the West, this retelling leaves behind magic, instead relying on a genuine historical period and uncanny characters to imbue the novel with an unworldly tone.
Although there is no magic in the story, it manages to feel magical for the reader.Maguire is not a newcomer to telling stories that deconstruct old narratives, and in my opinion this attempt was more successful then Wicked for several reasons.
You have your own life to live, Iris, and at its end, the only opinion that amounts to anything is that which God bestows”
I love books based on fairy tales, but it's taken me forever to really read any of Maguire's stuff.
This book follows the story of Iris and Ruth, two little girls who, with their mother, flee from England after their father is murdered.
Ruth, the oldest, is dumb and mute and taken care of by Iris, the younger, smarter sister, who shows artistic promise but is considered plain at best and will never be a beauty.
Even during the hard times, the plain Iris must deal with the dumb Ruth and the neurotic Clara, yet she does with patience and care.
His writing is often a bit too labored, his symbolism too transparent, and his literary devices a bit clunky.Like 'Wicked', 'Confessions' offers the reader a variation on a well-known story.
Also like 'Wicked', 'Confessions' is not really all that much to write home about.
A somewhat creative variation, but one in which many of the characters are incredibly hard to like, and the story just falls flat in the end.
The epilogue reads like something that has been tacked on in order to make up for loose ends, and ultimately transforms a story that seems like it is trying to veer away from the formulaic fairy tale mold into a "happily-ever-after", problems-solved-in-the-last-five-minutes kind of thing.
I am now convinced Maguire can’t pace a story to my liking and his stories and characters are all too convoluted so that I am never sure exactly what is going on or even why I should care.
I don’t enjoy reading books when I have to try to convince myself to like the characters when I don’t.Not to mention, Maguire can’t get from Point A to Point B without numerous side trips through the alphabet.
Clara, the Cinderella character, seemed a very flat character to me, although she could have been interesting if the author had developed her more.Mostly it was disappointing to not get the completion of Caspar and Iris's relationship after the entire book leads up to it.
You would think that if the story was written down by Caspar, as the epilogue explains, then we would have gotten it more from his point of view, rather than Iris's.Overall, it was an okay read, but I'm not sure I want to read Wicked now after reading this one.
Set in 17th century Holland during the Tulip craze this version of Cinderella is by far my favorite.
The traditional story of Cinderella is started on its course when a wealthy tulip merchant commissions the painter to paint his beautiful daughter, Clara, with an equally beautiful new tulip (for marketing purposes).
Then through a series of events (change of job, miscarriage and death) Margarethe ends up married to the tulip merchant.
Though I was not impressed by this story's Cinderella (Clara), a character I have always adored, Iris more than makes up for her as a strong and likeable heroine.
I bought it the day after it came out, because I was already obsessed with Gregory Maguire despite the fact that he had only written one other adult book at that point.
I started the novel in the morning, the day I had to take my parents to the airport in Kalamazoo.
When we got to the hotel and had to go to bed, I COULD NOT sleep, so I got up went in the hotel bathroom, but a towel under the door and read the rest of the book staying up until it was time for us to go to the airport around 4am.It was FANTASTIC.
I think this may be my favorite Gregory Maguire novel.
Confessions of an Ugly Stepsister is way better than Wicked, not least because the characters have consistent personalities and the plot is coherent. I appreciated the sensory details and descriptions, and the various characters are original. There's a nice twist near the end which gave me a little brain jolt, and I always like that.
In the lives of children, pumpkins can turn into coaches, mice and rats into human beings.
When we grow up, we learn that it’s far more common for human beings to turn into rats.If magic was present, it moved under the skin of the world, beneath the ability of human eyes to catch sight of it.Immortality is a chancy thing; it cannot be promised or earned.
Perhaps it cannot even be identified for what it is.It’s the place of the story, beginning here, in the meadow of late summer flowers, thriving before the Atlantic storms drive wet and winter upon them all.So let my hands and my face make their way in this world, let my hungry eyes see, my tongue taste.Is this the main thing that painters of portraits care about?
This book gives a whole new view on the Cinderella, one that is completely believable.
It offers a real setting(not just a land far, far away or a long time ago) and speaks of real people.
It makes you think.
Is beauty a gift or a curse?
It offers a brave, out-of-the-ordinary heroine, one of the ugly stepsisters herself.
The narrator shows you a new perspective on the Cinderella story.
Perhaps the wicked stepsisters were not so wicked.
Perhaps they had lives too.
Perhaps their lives were actually better because they were not so beautiful.
It makes you look deep, past looks, past what everyone else tells you.
While I think Gregory Maguire is brilliant to tackle these twisty fairy tales, and show us the "other" side, for me, I think that his writing is to wordy and feels too crowded, or overkill to actually tell the story he is looking to tell.This is the story of Ruth and Iris, sisters-- THE step-sisters of Cinderella, aka, Clara Van Der Meer.
Both sisters are ugly, but thoughtful, and care deeply about Clara.
The happy fairy tale that everyone knows and shares, is turned upside down, and the real story is told.For me just too much.
Too many words, too much emphasis on extraneous events, and the truly evil one here is the step mother- Margarenthe.
I feel like JK Rowling had a good formula for taking a big, complex story with 20 moving parts and having them all fuse up perfectly by the end of the book.
Maguire’s stories, even Wicked, have these long droning and super dull moments where it becomes way too easy for me to put the book down and walk away for days or weeks.
I don’t think I’ll read another book by him unless I’m told it’s very exciting by trusted people.
I’d say it’s an unnecessarily long book about some girls who are disappointed with life and nothing works out.
I don’t know, some people like books about people’s rough predicaments and thoughts and experiences.
What i knew of the storyline beforehand was basically that it was going to be a re-telling of the cinderella story from the perspective of one of the stepsisters.
What i didn't realise was that the fairy godmother element was removed in order to make the story seem like it could actually have happened in real life.
Cinderella is one of my least favourite fairytales, and i was willing to hear the story coming from another angle, but this book just made me appreciate the original tale more.
Hmm. Okay, this book is just "not quite." Which I need to put in the proper scale -- the set-up is brilliant, as Maguire's generally are, and the follow-through is good, and the denouement is fine.
Parts of this book are sheer genius -- the cleverness of the title which you don't realize until the very last page, the autistic ugly stepsister, the treatment of beauty in art and in life, Clara/Cinderella as a voluntary shut-in, the setting in sixteenth-century Holland, the reality of a prince searching for a wife.
I love this prequel to the age old story, Cinderella. IMO this was WAY better than the popular book, Wicked, by this author. I should also add that there's an interesting interview with the author on the final disc. It's always fascinating, to me, to get inside an author's brain.
I read Wicked a few years ago—more like I devoured it! This book was written in the same style. I was drawn into the world the author created, and I was held there, spellbound, until the book was finished. Then, I sat there and stared at it for a while. It was hard to get my head out of the world of this book. I am looking forward to reading more by this author. I definitely lost sleep over this book!
*Two and a Half Stars*Having already read Gregory Maguire's  Wicked I was something less than thrilled when I got roped into reading  Confessions of an Ugly Stepsister for a decidedly informal book discussion group.
It wasn't that I found  Wicked a bad read, I actually rather enjoyed it, but the blurb on the back of "Confessions" lead me to think that Mr. Maguire had essentially repeated the same formula with a different fairy tale.
(Actually, 'Wicked' was written after 'Confessions' but I read 'Wicked first...) Deconstructing a fairy tale and retelling it from the point of view of a traditionally unsympathetic character looses its novelty quickly.Anybody who has read  Wicked will instantly feel right at home.
I will do that today.I must have liked the book because I just found 15 pages of handwritten quotes which I had scribbled from it as I read!
182, _Confessions of an Ugly Stepsister_ by Gregory Maguire==========================================================I made the following notation for myself about the book: "Opens eyes to the world of art and artists."BTW, I see that I was reading the book from March 2003 to June 2003.
...perhaps charity is the kind of beauty that we comprehend the best because we miss it the most."-Gregory Maguire, _Confessions of an Ugly Stepsister A Novel_, p.
I'm sorry, I just cannot get into this story. I don't know what it is exactly but I just can't get into it and it's boring as hell. The author writes very well and very clearly. I've read a couple other books by him. But for whatever reason I just simply cannot get into this story. Just not interesting at all for me. I gave it a chance. That's all that matters.
Audio reread #103
This was such an inventive retelling of Cinderella. It felt almost true to the original story, but with a change in perspective.
An individual’s outlook on the world includes their unique perspective of beauty, and is one of the remarkable topics implied in both Confessions of an Ugly Stepsister by Gregory Maguire, and “Aschenputtel” by the Brother’s Grimm.
Both the tree in “Aschenputtel” and the wildflowers in Confessions of an Ugly Stepsister are significant factors to the two plots and characters in the stories, representing beauty.Secondly, a person’s character is often affected by their beauty.
In Confessions of an Ugly Stepsister, Clara is the one who always has to stand next to van den Meer to sell her beauty, and to be exploited by him.
Before reading : this perspective analysis contains a comparison between two Cinderella stories, "Confessions of an Ugly Stepsister" by Gregory Maguire and "The Little Glass Slipper" by Charles Perrault. Analysis GRASP Summative : How Does Perspective Impact a Story? Have you ever wondered why the typical stepmother and stepsisters who appear in the Cinderella story are evil and cruel? Gregory Maguire’s Confessions of an Ugly Stepsister might answer your curiosity by providing a deeper insight i
Before reading : this perspective analysis contains a comparison between two Cinderella stories, "Confessions of an Ugly Stepsister" by Gregory Maguire and "The Little Glass Slipper" by Charles Perrault.
The authors use these different points of view in order to draw attention to specific characters, plot, and settings in the story, which has an immense impact on how readers feel about the story.The perspective of Confessions of an Ugly Stepsister displays Iris’ struggles and thoughts well.
The novel, Confessions of an Ugly Stepsister, and the fairy tale, Cinderella, or, The Little Glass Slipper both draw enjoyment from readers in different strategies; thus, readers may comprehend stories in numerous ways.
It was an interesting retelling. Cinderella or Clara was quite the character, and Iris was likeable. You wanted her to find happiness. I enjoyed the painting element and was glad that Iris got to do what she loved.
Maguire has always had this amazing way with words and even when writing from the second-person viewpoint, it was beautiful.
I am aware that not everyone can write in second-person because it's so difficult but you can't fault Maguire with this.
This book was amazing because it really pointed out that Beauty (see how important an issue it is - I've capitalized it and everything) is not necessarily the deal breaker.
Nothing much to be said about Margarethe because she's appropriately hateful and you'll even love the Master and (oh my stars!) Caspar - my third favourite character after Iris and Ruth.
If you can, pick this up and fall in love with Cinderella :)
Instead of full of magical or a fairy tale ending, the author told the story in a different way.
When I looked at the cover, I thought, okay, maybe in this story Cinderella is the bad guy, maybe she got her prince and being a bitch or something.
This story potrays real life.The character, Iris, herself is captivated by this magical stuff that she saw things differently.
Self-mockery is an uglier thing than any human face.I think for one fairy tale retelling, this story gave a very good message, on beauty.
The character of Margarethe, who does a fine job as the wicked stepmother, is extremely well done as are other supporting characters like that of Master Schoonmaker, a painter who befriends Iris and plays an integral role in her character's development, and Casper, Schoonmaker's apprentice and Iris' love interest.This book is filled with complex metaphor and simile, which occasionally borders on self-indulgence and certainly more than necessary to tell the story, but not necessarily too much for readers who appreciate Maguire's style of writing.Some reviewers claim the book's ending felt inadequate, yet isn't that true of all fairy tales?
So I was pleasantly surprised to find that I really enjoyed this retelling of the Cinderella story.
Iris and Ruth Fisher are the daughters of Margarethe.
Ruth is a large, hulking girl who doesn't talk and Iris, although plain, is cunning and resourceful.
The painter is soon commissioned to do a painting of a beautiful young girl, Clara, who claims to be a changling and will eventually become a stepsister to Iris and Ruth.
You know the story and although the shoes are not glass, this rendition runs very close to the original.
I don't know what it is about Gregory Maguire, but I keep reading his books thinking I'll like them and I end up being disappointed at best, but more often than not annoyed and put off.
There is all of build up in this novel and the ending feels rushed, like he got bored half way through and just decided to stop writing.
Also, I am surprised at the lack of sexuality in this book, which is a very prominent topic in some of his other books.
This story seemed ripe for sexual exploitation, and if there was any it was only hinted at.
Anti-climactic is the only way I can describe this book.
As a retelling of Cinderella, the story feels familiar but is totally reworked.But the story just limped along.
And that gives the story an innocence that I find annoying.
I very much disliked the preoccupation of the girl with changlings and imps.
What does that have to do with anything?And Cinderella herself was pretty much non-existent.
A pretty girl with no personality or anything else.
It's almost as though Maguire tried to make the story so realistic, it became montage of boring everyday life through the eyes of a little girl.
