https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/22990.Collected_Poems
فلننفجر غضبًا أمام لوركا..عيناك واشيتان، لوركا..مخيفتان . to be reviewed.
bu kitabın öyle acı hikayesi var ki geçen seneki fuardan üf. fuarda çalışıyorum akşama ekip geldi geziyoruz. kitabı buldum cüzdanda para yok, 15 tl dedi, dedim abi geliyorum. gitmedim, gidemedim, yanımdakilerden de para isteyemedim. bir saat sonra durduğum stantta kendimden 3 yaş küçük patronumdan yevmiyemi erken aldım. gittim. KİTAP YOK. kim aldıysa abv şu anda nadirkitapta 50tl fln kitap.nys pdfi var.kendim basarım asfasdfasd :((:(:(:(:(:((
I lugged this beast across Cuba 11 years ago.
I'm curious to go back the Hennepin Country Library and see if that copy still has all the sand and stains it accumulated (though if it wasn't checked in the year after I retuned it, it was probably de-accessioned).
'Guadalquivir, high towerand wind in the orange groves.'It was very strange to be traveling in a foreign country, overwhelmed with impressions, and to be in the midst of bookish raptures at the same time.
Cuba was called 'the Andalusia of the New World,' and reading Lorca in the Cuban countryside was fitting, and disorienting.
دائما ما تفقد الترجمة جزء من روح الشاعر وربما ظهر ذلك فى بعض القصائد ولكن مع ذلك اقيم الديوان بـ 5 نجوم ليتني استطيع قراءة هذا الديوان بلغته الاصلية دون ترجمة ,, لوركا أنت الاروع على الاطلاق______________________آه أيتها المرأة الجبارةالمصنوعةمن الأبنوس والناردينلكِ نفس أبيض كــ اليانسونأنت فينوس فى عباءة مانيلاتفوح بنبيذ مالقا وموسيقاها
I think this book will be on my "currently reading" shelf forever - similar to the way some people keep a Bible on their nightstand... I love picking this up - and having the Spain of the 1920s & 30s wash over me... "Dry Land, quiet land of immense nights ... (Wind in the olive grove, wind in the sierra.)....." sigh...
just about as awesome as i remember when i read it is a younger, teenage poet.
full of dark mystery, the moon, the half moon, spikenard, adultry, horses and so forth.
the love poems are longing and enigmatic and a lot of it contains ample scenery of days that are lost to me.
roving countrysides and mysterious horses and horseman.
yet if you read this whole thing or make yr way thru lorca's collection, watchout to when he comes to new york!
the anxieties of modern life are there in full effect all of a sudden in the 'poet in new york' section.
If you are going to get a book of Lorca's poetry, this is the absolute best you can get. It's a bilingual edition and it contains pretty much everything other than his plays. I wish I had been around to see him speak and perform his poetry.
In an interview during the Spanish Civil war Lorca was asked if he was revolutionary. To which he responded, "All poets are revolutionaries.". Great works from a great artist.
It's not that I was wrong--what I've just finished reading are NOT the poems Lorca actually wrote.
My Spanish isn't good enough to get the texture of the originals; I can do nothing more than look over once in a while and either do a bleak word to word translation with my rusty memory of high school Spanish (not fun), OR, just SAY the Spanish poem out loud after I've read the English version.
To do so is to "order the loves that soon become photographs" Lorca sighs in "Poet In New York."These poems have changed my life.
South Wind.Dark and burning,Soaked with orange blossoms,You come over my flesh,Bringing me seedOf br
A behemoth of a collection, physically and lyrically, this includes pretty much everything of worth of Lorca you could want. Poetry, like children's literature, has no business being reviewed, so I'll leave it at this: if you love Lorca, you'll probably pee a little when you get this; if you love poetry and have no idea who Lorca is (simple version: gay socialist-poet shot by his own countrymen), you probably won't go wrong blind-buying it.A nice introduction and copious notes, of course, but who wants to read those?
پنجره مهتابی ام را بسته ام/ چرا که هوای شنیدن گریه ندارم/ از پشت دیوارهای خاکستری اما/ جز گریه چیزی به گوش نمی رسد/ آنجا فرشتگانی آواز می خوانند/ و سگانی می لایند/ هزار ویلون در کف دستم جای می گیرد/ گریه اما سگی تنومند/ گریه اما فرشته ای است عظیم/ گریه ویولنی است بی انتها/ اشک ها باد را خاموش می کند/ و جز گریه هیچ چیز دیگری/ به گوش نمی رسد...
پنجره مهتابی ام را بسته‌ ام/ چرا که هوای شنیدن گریه ندارم/ از پشت دیوارهای خاکستری اما/ جز گریه چیزی به گوش نمی‌ رسد/ آنجا فرشتگانی آواز می‌ خوانند/ و سگانی می‌ لایند/ هزار ویلون در کف دستم جای می‌ گیرد/ گریه اما سگی تنومند/ گریه اما فرشته ای است عظیم/ گریه ویولنی است بی انتها/ اشک ها باد را خاموش می‌ کند/ و جز گریه هیچ چیز دیگری/ به گوش نمی‌ رسد...
Lorca is considered one of the great modern poets, that in itself shows that the term modern is so broad as to mean almost anything.
Lorca was a poet who wanted his work to feel like it had grown out of the place which was so much of what he was, in this way he's somewhat like Frost.
There is a Selected Poems of Lorca from FSG that may appeal to some who want to give him a try but are a bit wary of the heft of this volume.
The biographical and literary introduction that begins this book is worth reading in itself to familiarize readers with Garcia Lorca's life and art.The poems themselves, provided in the original Spanish on the left-hand page and in English on the right-hand page, are both simple and rich, pastoral and passionate. They are like eating a sensually ripe, warmed fruit that is sometimes sweet, sometimes tangy.
Siempre está en el sofá junto a El libro de los abrazos invitándome a tomar pausa... siempre estarán en currently reading.
Federico Garcia Lorca's voice is unique, is universal, flows like spring water, like blood, like air in a closed room: he will never not be alive. An essential collection from a transcendent poet.
A dozen translators contributed to this work; their knowledge of Lorca and expertise with linguistic nuance were evident throughout.
The bilingual edition allows readers to enjoy the original Spanish poems next to the English translations and compare the two versions.
I decided to use this book to check off two different categories for the reading challenges that I'm working on this year.
For the Book Riot Read Harder Challenge, I'm using this for "Read a collection of poetry in translation on a theme other than love." Just about any of the fourteen collections contained in this edition would work perfectly for that.
When writing in Spanish, a language where most nouns end in either an 'a' or an 'o' the greater challenge would be the attempt to avoid rhyme.
In English his translators make no attempt to duplicate his rhyme scheme.
I look forward to hearing this poetry read in its original Spanish.
The poems are deeply personal and reveal a rather depressive personality of one who is self-absorbed and obsessive.
There are notes supplied in an end appendix but since the poems are not numbered and there are only rough page references following them is not easy.
In paperback the binding cannot survive the reading of it.
The parts I read of him in translation were cliche .
I did not even find it sweet cliche.
Prefer new world Borges, Saint Juan de la Cruz, Theresa da Avilia, Dante, Bauldaire , and Rimbaud to this drivel.
I am not bothering to learn Old World Spanish at all.
I was less inspired to read the actual chapters in fact I did not bother.
I can learn New Wold Espanol on Rosetta Stone.
I'd also take Borges far before Lorca if he was straight.Rimbaud might have been homosexual and not bisexual and if he was then good for him.
Lorca, oh Lorca. Sweet playful Lorca. Erotic Lorca. Lorca of Love. Lorca of love's lost and found. Oh yes Lorca!Lorca of visual puns, words and sensual senses. Lorca of a Spanish towns and countrysides. Lorca of music, de la guitarra y voces dolorosos.Lorca of Dali and Whitman and New York City and The Tamarit Divan. Canciones y sonetos y odas y suites y poemas.A las cinco de la tarde. Eran las cinco en punto de la tarde. Señor Ignacio Sánchez Mejías. It was five in the afternoon R.M.Este libro está muy magnífico.
Solid Collection—I was only interested in Lorca's poetry just before and after his masterful Poet in New York, and this collection confirmed for me that Poet in New York is indeed my favorite work by him, and he's not quite the same afterwards, and though there are flashes of similar amazing verbal acrobatics and alchemy in his earlier works (The Gypsy Ballades), they are not as heightened, extreme, or mind-blowing than those he performs in that masterpiece of his.
I can't give a star rating because it would be unfair. I just went through and read the poems that stuck out to me the most and I was so lost. I know they're supposed to have meanings behind them or tell a story but I honestly didn't know what the point is for most of them. Poetry and me are not friends. There were 2 that I liked Some Souls on page 53 and My Souls Shadows on page 41.
No soy un gran lector de poesía, pero la poesía de García Lorca me pareció espléndida. Llena de vida y color, aunque con una suerte de frío soplo de muerte, y de una oscuridad escondida entre líneas. Tal vez sólo sea mi propio espíritu reflejado entre los poemas de Lorca, pero demonios, qué buenos son.
Goddammit I'm weeping over this, it's not fair: why was he so good?!The fact this man only lived to be 38 is a fucking crime--the fact he used the time he had to give us this much work of this high standard almost makes up for the brevity of his life. It does leave you to think, though: how much more amazing work could the world have had if he'd lived to be a little older?
read these poems with the idea that some of them would become puppet shows! they are beautiful in their imagery alone, but thinking in terms of literal illustration made me focus on them in a way that i might not other wise have.tom! i want this book back!!!
a cock blooms in a well. it is small and bright. then it gets big. it shoots up the well & kisses children yelling down. they retain the memory of this flashing cock forever. the word "oblong" is beautiful to them forever.
I just skimmed this book in English translation. The imagery bored me of the ones I read. One of the poems actually offended me. " It was let your eyes turn orange the color of LOVE" That sounds so pychotic in my opinon and elitist.
Stole the hardback copy from the local library because my paperback edition was falling part (not to mention the hardback is out of print). I did, however, replace the copy, albeit with the paperback edition, haha. Anyway, Lorca is ineffable.
"Let there be a panorama of open eyes and bitter inflamed wounds.Out in the world, no one sleeps. No one. No one.I've said it before. No one sleeps."
This collection makes the soul dance in great grins1
