https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/22415.Your_Invisible_Power
So then people ask, is it really good to use the power of visualization to manifest a materialistic object like say a new $80000 BMW?
What you use “Your Invisible Power” (Visualization > Manifestation) for is not what’s significant here.
What is much more important is the paradigm shift, the knowledge and discovery that you are a spiritual being, a source of powerful energy, a “co-creator” in this universe; and that you are able to use the power within you to visualize and bring things or circumstances into existence.
With this knowledge you can never be a victim of circumstance, for you are a center of power...
Great book! I would say it requires some knowledge of the Law of Attraction beforehand though only because her terminology may be hard to understand.. I wouldn't recommend it to someone as their first book on the subject although the subject is pretty basic. It was a quick read and I did learn some new tips on visualizing, so all in all, it was worth it.
Good teaching material for creating a consciousness of manifesting.
Written in 1921 following the New Thought movement and Thomas Troward. Focuses on visualization and faith. Excellent read."It is the Faith which understands that every creation had its birth in the womb of thought -words that gives you dominion over all things, your lesser self included, and this feeling of faith is increased and intensified through observing what it does."
Very reminiscent of Florence Scovel Shinn, Prentice Mulford, and Neville Goddard. If you liked any of those authors, you'll probably like this too.My takeaway from this: "For every five minutes given to reading and study of the theories of Mental Science, spend fifteen minutes in the use and application of the knowledge acquired." Your Invisible Power, pg 56. Good advice.
So enlightening to gain knowledge from the only student of the great judge troward. it got me to look at life from a brand new perspective.
Read it 3 times awesome. Book.
In chapter 8 she says that in her emptiness, isolation and longing she studied Christian Science and it gave her no solace as it felt impossible to make practical application of its teachings.
When about to abandon the search for contentment, a great friend introduced her to Abdul Baha (56:42 on YouTube book).
Abdul Baha told her that she would “travel the world over seeking the truth, and when she had found it, would speak it out”.
Her search for contentment led her to a book by judge Troward who is known for Edinburgh Lectures on Mental Science, and it can be read easily on Google Books here:https://books.google.com/books/about/...
Therefore, make the effort to obtain the things which will bring joy, provided that your desires are in accord with the Joy of Living.* All study and meditation should be without strain or tension.* Whatever you think and feel yourself to be, the Creative Spirit of Life is bound to faithfully reproduce in a corresponding reaction.* Since Order is Heaven’s first law, and visualization places things in their natural order, then it must be a heavenly thing to visualize.
Thought is not good or bad; it is Creative Action and always takes physical form.* So be yourself and enjoy Life in your own Divine way.
* In every word is a power germ which expands projecting itself in the direction your word indicates, and ultimately develops into physical expression.* Everyone knows that joy comes from within.
Encouraging
The resurgence of Mental Science is expanding exponentially.
The Secret, What the Bleep Do We Know & the Law of Attraction are three recent examples of the principles of Mental Science that have made it popular.
But before these came about, before they leapt onto our TV screens and into the pages of books, people like Geneveive Behrend were already writing about it, lecturing about it and teaching it throughout the world.
She had many friends and she traveled the world.
And along the way, you just might discover how to change your life in many wonderful ways.
Judge Thomas Troward was an incredible man deeply rooted in science, philosophy ,nature and how we truly are a manifestation of God. Genevieve Behrend was his only student who came back from after studying with him for 2 years 1912-1914 in London she was American and she wrote this book.
Every sentence is packed with so much depth - many books have been written on New Thought manifestation /law of Atrraction however they don't get to the depth of the topic to the real juice and I believe that Ms Behrend has done an excellent review.

This book consisted primarily of law of attraction information packaged in a more antiquarian and interestingly phrased format. Of course since it was written in the 19th century, it is not without the Victorian habit of mentioning and praising God, but fortunately in this book, not excessively so. A nice feature of this book is that it is short, and doesn't repeat itself quite as often as it could.
Author Genevieve Behrend breakdown of one's self and thought was complex at times to understand. One must first understand Thomas Troward's Edinburgh Lectures on Mental Science to fully grasp her book. Behrend a student of Troward's work is shown in Your Invisible Power.
Incredible book on the subconscious mind, and the laws of the universe.
Good read and thought provoking. Got a lot out of the book.
Very pragmatic and practical. Must add to your library. MP3 is on Youtube.
A mind opener! I've studied this, read about this and yet, I am on my 5th read of this book and each and every time, I hear something new. And I am doing the activities. I guess I am ready!
PowerfulThis book was very interesting and a lot of t he content resonated with me. It seems so simple and makes so much sense that this works.
The foundation for "The Secret."
A kindred spirit of Florence Scovel Shinn and law of attraction. Specific details on how to make your mind work for you. Loved the book.
Priceless work.
A FANTASTIC book that is a COMPLETE and thorough manual for manifestation written in a beautiful, simple and story full way. It leaves you inspired, it helps you understand your connection to God, the divine energy and that you are a part of it. As an avid reader who has read numerous books on spiritual matters, books on buddhism, christianity and such, this is one of the books that I would recommend to everyone looking for a complete explanation and manual for using visualization to manifest their dream life. Enjoy it!
One would think that the ideology presented in this volume and other books like it, was required reading for much of the prosperity preachers today. Visualizing is key in the pursuit of success according to this book. if you can dream it, you can achieve it. Of course, I'm still dreaming of a Lamborghini.
Timeless wisdom for the ages. As I read this I could see how over a century since she started studying mental science, the precepts captured by Behrend's 1921 book have been built upon and regurgitated in different ways multiple times all over the world.
This was an enlightening read where the power of positivism and self belief is said to translate into action by the universe. And to a ceratin extent it means one shouldn't have a self-defeatist attitude.
A nice book about visualization, the power of the mind.
Helps you to refocus on the basics without all the fluff...
Good one. This book focuses entirely on one aspect, which is the power of your self-belief.
