https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/51788.The_Analysis_of_Mind
When you drop a weight on your toe, and you say what you do say, the habit has been caused by imitation of your undesirable associates, whereas it is brought into play by the dropping of the weight. It is a puzzle of our modern scientific worldview that we have been extremely successful in explaining things remote from our experience, and yet have made comparatively little headway in explaining our experience itself.We begin with physics, the king of the sciences. Here we are dealing with thing
Hume thought the mind was merely a succession of sensations and images; William James mainly relied on habit to explain human behavior; Freud divided the mind into the conscious, the unconscious, and the censor, reducing all motivation to the sex drive; and behaviorism, of course, attempts to circumvent the mind completely, explaining everything through observable actions.Russell more or less attempts to put these theories together, fiddling with one here, another there, trying to find the right combination to account for the human mind.
Building from the scratch on what is mind, thought, memory, perception etc he has gone in great detail in establishing the truth in various definitions of the same. a very heavy read, but worth its philosophical content.
On pourrait croire, à première vue, qu’il s’agit là d’un retour aux conceptions anciennes, dans lesquelles l’esprit et la matière n’étaient point radicalement séparés l’un de l’autre comme ils le sont depuis Descartes ; mais, en fait, il n’en est rien, car il s’agit d’un point de vue « empiriste » et « évolutionniste » qui est purement moderne, au plus fâcheux sens de ce mot, et dans lequel ce qui est appelé « esprit » nous apparaît comme quelque chose de peu « spirituel » en réalité, toute faculté supérieure à l’ordre sensible étant niée ou passée sous silence.
Russell examine avec le plus grand sérieux, il en est d’ailleurs de fort divertissantes pour quiconque peut les envisager avec un complet désintéressement ; ne se rencontrera-t-il pas un Molière pour mettre à la scène ces pédantesques inepties ?Vient de paraître, sept.-oct.
فکر میکنم بهتره سه کتاب مسائل فلسفه، علم ما به عالم خارج و تحلیل ذهن به ترتیب خونده بشن.
متاسفانه اطلاعات روانشناسی من بسیار اندکه و نمیدونم که مطالب این کتاب که بیشتر از نود سال پیش نوشته شده هنوز هم قابل مدافعه هست یا نه ولی به هر حال مطالب راسل برای من تا حد زیادی قانع کننده بود.
در این سه کتاب که طی 10 سال نوشته شده، بارزترین نکته ای که به نظر میاد عشق راسل به حقیقت و شجاعتش در بیان مسائلیه که به نظرش قرین حقیقتن هر چند که در تعارض کامل با مواضع قبلیش باشن
The first chapters are incredibly helpful in defining the causes of our behavior, instincts, habits, and desires.
You can get a different perspective of your character and find patterns, whether good or bad, and, maybe, modify them.
The second half of the book may be tedious, but useful, as well, to those involved in the study of psyque.
In a sort of synthesis, Russell states that reality yields not in matter nor in mind, but in a mixture of both.
The study of that mix would allow us to see the true correlations (e.g. causal relations) between mind and matter.
Russell appeals for a multidisciplinary approach in all sciences.
This is an excellent book that, as it claims, works to reconcile physics with psychology.
That is not to say that Russell fails here in his attempt, because I believe he succeeds wholeheartedly, but it is clear that this is not his area of expertise (as he carefully notes more than once), and I don't think he was quite well-read enough in the current psychological literature of the day to allow him to flesh out some of the chapters.
A bit dry at times but full of deep thoughts on the workings of he mind. Favorite quote on evolving every day was "Any of us confronted by a forgotten letter written some years ago will be astonished to find how much more foolish our opinions were than we had remembered them as being".
آقا این سایت ستینگی نداره بگیم نصفه نیمه خوندیم فلان کتابو؟ریا می شه آخه اینطوری!من این کتاب را با امید و انگیزه ی فراوان شروع کردم ولی مخم نکشید ادامه بدم ،یعنی می شد بکشه ها ولی خیلی زمانبر بود
A great one!
Nothing like the joy of Public Domain books.
I'll admit that I haven't read too much philosophy, but this was probably a good choice for me considering my background.
I especially enjoyed the lecture on language and will probably look into more linguistic theory in the future.
I will say that for a book published in 2002, he is a bit more behind than what I would have expected.
And I do enjoy the logical approach he has towards these things (which have more specific terms in cognitive psychology).I also have to give props to Russell because he seems like a genuinely cool guy who's beliefs seem to coincide with mine.
I'm honestly fascinated with this book. I recall having read bits of it for a psychology class and more bits for a philosophy class. However, I never read the entire thing ─ even though I actually have the book on my shelf. I need to read the book, not listen to it, and take notes. This seems like it could be a great starting point for understanding metacognition and other neuroscience things that often relate to teaching, leadership, and working with people in any capacity.
You can say this book is a a treatise on the process of thought making. A psychological book that stimulates our minds to read it and understand the clumsy world of psychology deeply.
dude would have creamed himself if brain imaging had been a thing in 1921. a good analysis, very concerned with the reconciliation of philosophy and physics. historically, mostly wrong, but his analysis of language is interesting.
The book is mind blowing. It gives you insight of how mind works. You will know the more about how we understand, remember, dream, recollect and worry. You can't read fast as it is a mind stretching subject !!!
I wonder if it is even possible to describe some psychological phenomena with physics... from what I can tell the view of consciousness as a illusion has won out.
مجموعة من المحاضرات القاها براند راسل حول الغريزة والكلام واللاوعي والاعتقاد وغيرها من الموضوعات، لم يكن هناك موضوعية في الطرح والامثلة غير موفقة.
Russell is the most accessible of all philosophers that I have read so far.
It's by far the most perplexing, mind-wobbling, difficult book I've ever read! Not an easy pick, but worth the read.
marked as "to-read"; referenced in Borges' "La creación y P.H. Gosse"
My first foray into reading on my iPod Touch. So far, interesting, obviously a seminal author and am looking forward to drawing connections between Russell and more contemporary authors.
