https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/333907.Fatal_Vision
I have followed this case ever since I read this book.
If you don't know of this case,you truly want to believe this husband, father, surgeon and career military captain innocent of these crimes.
The murders are based on circumstantial evidence but as the story unfolds you will come to your own conclusion of this man's guilt.
A Must Read for any true crime lover or any reader who wants to see how a conviction based on circumstantial evidence told the whole story of how these murders took place.
This book is so well written, you won't want to put it down!
An intelligent reader finishes Fatal Vision knowing, beyond even a reasonable doubt, that Jeffrey MacDonald and only Jeffrey MacDonald murdered his pregnant wife, his daughter Kimberley, and his daughter Kristen.
And, it should be pointed out that while MacDonald's wife and daughters were the victims of overkill, MacDonald, himself received only very minor, non-life threatening wounds.There are other, more complicated reasons why MacDonald’s story doesn’t wash with readers endowed with even the most casual of critical thinking skills, but they are far too complex to go into here.Strangely, Jeffrey MacDonald, who has been in prison for a little more than thirty years now and who has long since had his license to practice medicine revoked, still has his followers who will go to the ends of the earth to proclaim either his guilt or his innocence, depending on whether or not MacDonald, himself took the time to write to them.
A true-crime classic. Definitely read it in tandem with Janet Malcolm's brilliant, brilliant, brilliant "The Journalist and the Murderer," which analyzes the lawsuit of prisoner Jeffrey MacDonald (convicted of murdering his pregnant wife and two children in 1970) against author Joe McGinniss, whom he claimed libelled and defamed him in this book. "How can you slander a convicted killer?" you ask. That's what Janet Malcolm wanted to know, too, and her answer -- her book -- is ingenious. And whatever its ethical problems, "Fatal Vision" is one of the most absorbing true-crime books I've ever read.
However, reading this, I found my opinions vacillating continuously between "of course he did it" and "maybe he didn't do it."The case itself is sensational, a Princeton-educated physician and charismatic Green Beret is accused of brutally murdering his two young children and his pregnant wife.
But again, why is it easier to believe someone we "dislike" is capable of murder or vice versa?Add to that the legal implications of the case and it makes for interesting reading.McGinniss, who I think writes a fairly balanced recounting, ultimately confesses that he is convinced of MacDonald's guilt, however, I think his personal bias is admirably subdued throughout most of the book.
This is the most engrossing read I've read in a long time and by far the best book I have read so far this year.
On February 17th, 1970 pregnant Colette MacDonald and her two young children, Kimberly and Kirsten, were brutally murdered.
In the same house was Dr. Jeffrey MacDonald, Colette's husband and father of the murdered children.
Jeffrey MacDonald was considered a succesful and charming young man.
It took years before the case was brought to court.
Despite this, the case was almost not brought to trial.This book takes you into the psyche of a man who appears charming and well adapted.
One of the best true crime books of all time. I should re-read it, along with A Shot in the Heart, the Executioner's Song and The People Who Eat Darkness. Also, all great true crime.
True Crime Classic on sale:$1.99 today, 6.4.18https://amzn.to/2xGX8lD
Great use of how different people see the same thing differently. Convinced me the good doctor killed his wife and kids
spooky and wow. HE DID IT it is clear even before dna. and now after dna it proves he did it.
Fatal Vision was easily one of the creepiest true crime novels I've ever read. When a trusted man with a high reputation decides to snap, it's his family who suffers, and this well-written book covers the entire case. It's a disturbing story but a detailed crime novel.
Janet Malcolm's 1990 book, The Journalist and the Murderer," accused McGinniss of acting like a confidence man, pretending friendship to gain MacDonald's trust long after McGinnis had been convinced of his guilt.
So Malcolm's accusation that McGinniss tarted up MacDonald's personality, forcing him into the profile of a narcissist to better sell the book does hit home with me.
His story just didn't wash, for multiple reasons you can read about in this book.
One thing for sure, you can't question McGinniss got very close to his query: enough for us to get a very intimate picture of, if not a narcissist as claimed, then a man who murdered his own family.
This is about all that everybody involved can agree on.MacDonald claimed three hippies did the murder; the initial US Army investigation concluded that MacDonald had killed his own family.
He befriended MacDonald and his team of supporters and lawyers and led everyone to believe he was convinced MacDonald was not guilty.
Indeed, he probably did think so until late in the appeal when he changed his mind.
The issue of journalistic ethics was widely discussed.MacDonald is probably guilty, but there is a window of doubt through which one might glimpse innocence.
I had to stop reading this halfway through, which is still an achievement since it is a 600 page behemoth of crap.
I have no idea how this book gets such glowing reviews!McGinniss is not only highly biased and fails to present a convincing case against Dr. Jeffrey MacDonald, a doctor accused (and later convicted) of killing his family in 1970.
MacDonald is an asshole, but that doesn't mean he is a murderer.
Come on.I have read neither Janet Malcolm nor Errol Morris' book about Fatal Vision, but I am eager to.
great classic
I've been on a bit of a true crime reading binge lately, and I grabbed this book at the bookstore after years of avoiding it.
On the eve of his murder trial, he brought McGinniss in and gave him unprecedented access to the trial and to his life.I suspect it didn't turn out the way MacDonald hoped.The account jumps from transcripts of MacDonald's comments to background for the crime and then the Byzantine maze of investigations and trials.
The first time I read this book - and now the second time - I believe beyond a reasonable doubt that Jeffrey MacDonald murdered his pregnant wife, Colette and his two daughters.
The author, Joe McGinniss, was hired to write a book sympathetic to MacDonald.
He couldn't write a book sympathetic to MacDonald - why?
I'm still not convinced beyond ALL doubt, like I am that Casey Anthony is guilty and O.J. Simpson is guilty and George Zimmerman is nothing but a murderer...but, at this point, I do believe beyond a reasonable doubt that MacDonald did kill his pregnant wife and his two daughters.
I read this book with an open mind about the case, unsure if I believed MacDonald had killed his wife and two young daughters.
I found it amazing that the author set out to write this book alongside MacDonald to proclaim his innocence and tell his story...but became sickeningly convinced that actually he was indeed guilty.
The book pulls you in and steadily ramps up the real life, true crime horror aspect as it steadily unfolds and reveals piece by piece every bit of information relevant to the case.
One of the best "true crime" books I've read. I watched the mini series when I was a young child (yes, I know...) and found the book to be much better. I find it especially compelling that McGinniss went into the book thinking Jeff wasn't guilty, but was then convinced of it, as I am too. McDonald has been up for parole several times, but will hopefully continued to have it denied.
I've read this book several times, and I'm always impressed by the blood evidence. There were certainly serious errors made, but there was also a lot of lying by McDonald and some untrustworthy "witnesses." I'm convinced that McDonald is guilty, and find this a fascinating story.
What a book. I couldn't put this one down. I read it when it first came out in the early 1980's. What a monster Jeffrey MacDonald is.
Fatal Vision follows the real life story of Doctor Jeffrey MacDonald, and the murder of his wife and children.
On 17th February 1970, MacDonald claims that a group of hippies, two white men, a black man and a blonde woman with a floppy hat, broke into his house, assaulted him, and then murdered his wife and two little girls.
But as law enforcement investigate further, his story doesn't seem to ring true, and physical evidence doesn't match his claims.
So I was very familiar with this story going into this book, as I believe it was mentioned on an episode of My Favorite Murder, and already had my own opinion before I read this book.
Former Green Beret officer Dr. Jeffrey MacDonald (still in prison last time I checked) called the police early one morning to report that his pregnant wife and two young daughters had been murdered by a marauding gang of hippies shouting "Kill the pigs, acid is groovy" while he received some superficial wounds trying to fight them off.Joe McGinniss who at the time was best known for his Nixon campaign book (The Selling of the President 1968) jumped on the case and made arrangements with MacDonald to follow him around and interview him.
Overly long at roughly 800 and then some pages. But I found I couldn't stop reading. This has to be one of the best true crime books ever.
fascinating. I still don't know what to think.
This was my true crime book of the summer - I've been trying to get through the classics of the genre, but you really can't read more than one of these at a time.
McGinniss says explicitly at the end that that's what HE believes (and I think you'd be pretty dense not to agree with him), but there's definitely room to draw your own conclusions.As a human, I loved the detail about all the people involved in the case.
So much of the narrative regarding Jeffrey MacDonald and his murdered family rang bells.
It's hard to say I truly enjoy any true crime book, but ones like this without any really likeable people are harder to sit through.
And, sure enough, the Innocence Project is - and, sure enough, they're getting stonewalled all over the place in a way that no one who listened to Serial would find surprising.It was a well-told and well-researched book for 99 percent of its over 600 pages.
McGinniss posits that MacDonald was hopped up on speed and in a dexy-fueled rage killed his family.
I was cautiously optimistic when I read a description of Fatal Vision describing it as "a true-crime classic." It became clear very quickly that I was in for another disappointment.
The journalistic ideal of remaining objective and keeping the writer out of the story is necessary in short form and hard news reporting but in longer works it creates an unnatural distance between the reader and the story and a linguistic frigidity that leaves the prose feeling awkward and clunky.
Furthermore McGinniss, like many true-crime writers, relies far too heavily on investigative and court transcripts leaving large sections of the text unedited, dull, and stylistically incongruent.
At first, the investigation looks for outsiders, but eventually, turns towards the good doctor, whose story begins to develop holes and doesn't match the forensic evidence.At first, there are only hints that the doctor is the killer-- but later on-- about halfway through-- there begins to be very little doubt.
a good man-- it seems..
but we begin to comprehend the horror of what happened in the house that night, and we get a glimpse into the tortured soul of a killer caught in the spotlight of justice.An excellent (but long) read for those into the true crime genre.
This book opened up the door to my love for true crime stories.
I read it when I was 17 years old.
A friend heading to college for a degree in criminal justice let me borrow it to read, stating I would not be able to put it down and he was correct.
I spent 20 years trying to aquire this book for my collection.
I bought it and have read it two times since.
This book is a constant tug-o-war: Is he guilty?
Guilty!
Guilty!
Innocent!
Innocent!
Innocent!
or Innocent?....no one will ever truly know outside of God and Jeffery MacDonald.
Ok well I'm in like year five of being obsessed with true crime and seemingly normal people who murder people.
And this book HITS DA SPOT if you're into that sorta stuff.
The only reason I'm taking off a star is for the LAME part at the end where the author talks for pages and pages about a lawsuit HE went through after the publication of the book.
It's like Sir: no gracias, we're not interested, that's not why we read this book.
