https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/18627415-echo-s-bones
Legacy in the form of ancestors and children and ghosts is the topic of this piece, and while we encounter people who are desperate to leave behind some trace of themselves to secure their places in this world, or to relieve some bizarre quandary, Belacqua finds himself alone in being the one unwilling to accept his own birth, and struggling to keep himself from being responsible for the lives of any other being.The story's title comes from the story of Echo and Narcissus, where in the end all that is left of Echo is her voice and her bones, which have degenerated into stones.
Better than Jehovah's Witnesses pamphlets.
It gives me the jim-jams." - when this is your publisher's reply to the story HE requested (reply printed in full in the Intro of the book...) it stands to reason your story is getting held back...
this book is full of info outside/surrounding the story itself, which is on or about 40 pages in length...
not the best intro to Beckett (odd, as it is his some of his earliest work and likely "more accessible", as they say), but maybe safer than his later stuff, which i find fascinating but can really turn off people unfamiliar with his style...
I found it essential (after attempting and failing to get to grips with this new story) to re-read all of More Pricks Than Kicks, for which this was proposed as a final story.
The author, intruding in the story, refers to this as the "fagpiece" and "a little triptych." At 51 pages though it is quite substantial and a serious task to read through because it makes few concessions to plot.
On the whole, I think that Beckett fans will want to snatch this book from the shelves, but before too long it makes far more sense to produce a complete version of More Kicks than Pricks and place this story where it belongs.
Full disclosure: I am a huge fan of Beckett’s.
I’ve read (and own copies of) all his fiction, seen (and own DVDs of) all his stage page, watched all of (and have downloaded copies of most of) his TV and film output and have listened to (and own copies of) all his radio plays.
It belongs to the early period where he’s finding his feet although, talking about feet, hopefully by this time he’d stopped wearing shoes that were too small for him just because that’s what Joyce wore.If, like me, you are a fan then you may find the article on my blog helpful before you buy the book.
One always approaches this kind of thing with trepidation. It is a transitional work. It is firmly under the shadow of Joyce. It is wonderful.
Recoiling in horror from this tripartite romp of posthumous ranting from the collection's reoccurring protagonist Belacqua Shua, the editor allowed this poor tale to languish unpublished until Faber came out with this spiffy hardcover edition in 2014, fleshed out into a book in its own right with the aforementioned historical and critical introduction and the laughably copious notes.Taken the right way, with a boulder of salt--I even have to wonder if Beckett didn't specifically write it to offend and challenge said editor--it's quite a crazy lark showing just how clueless, free, and without concern for his audience a great writer can be.
When Becket's story collection "More Pricks than Kicks" was accepted for publication, he was asked to add one more story to fill out the page count.
He wrote this story, and it was rejected, so the book was published without it.
The ten stories of More Pricks all center on Belacqua, one of Beckett's memorable leading figures, and ends with his death.
Rather than add a filler story in the middle of the collection, Beckett used this story to tell three stages of Belacqua's afterlife, including meeting a giant and sitting on his own tombstone while talking to a man who was robbing his grave.
"Echo's Bones" is a short story published only nearly 80 years after it was first written. It was initially rejected for being a "nightmare" and "too disturbing". I loved it. Beckett is just the usual genius that writes magistrally a story/non story about birth and rebirth (in a resurrection kind of way), with references to T.S. Eliot and Joyce, as well as the story of Echo and Narcissus from which the title comes from.
It wouldn't be fair to rate this any lower due my lack of knowledge, but this book has proved to be a tremendous challenge, even more so than The Sound and The Fury, A Clockwork Orange, though I have yet to read Ulysses. Plus this is my first contact with Beckett's work, and I'd like to read more of his, any pointers for this newbie?
"tekrar söylüyorumöğretmezsen öğrenememtekrar söylüyorum bir son varson defanın bile sonuyalvarmanın son seferisevmenin son seferirol yapmayı bilmemeyi bilmeninsöylemenin son seferinin bile bir sonu varbeni sevmezsen sevilememseni sevmezsem sevemem"Harika bulduğum dizeler olduğu gibi Whorescope'u son derece itici buldum.
Tradução meio ousada, mas a edição está ótima, com mais comentários do que o conto em si. Bem interessante para quem estuda Beckett.
To use an older maymay: dick jokes, dick jokes everywhere
I can't say I connected with the story on any level
I haven't read the earlier stories in the series yet. I'm interested to see how they compare.
Belacqua Shuah’s resurrection is a remaining of Beckett’s strident humor.
Samuel Beckett, in September 1933 dispatched a collection of ten stories to the London Publishing house Chatto & Windus.
Acknowledging receipt of the manuscript and accepting the same as worthy of printing, Charles Prentice, the Editor at Chatto & Windus, solicited yet another story from Beckett which would 'help the book' by adding weight to the content.
Eighty years of obscurity later, "Echo's Bones" makes an appearance courtesy Mark Nixon, the director of the Beckett International Foundation at the University of Reading.
It is not at all hard to fathom as to why Echo's Bones was given the cold shoulder when it was first offered to the publishers.
When it was released a few years ago, almost all reviews of Echo's Bones seemed to begin by sympathising with the publisher Charles Prentice, who upon reading Beckett's extended short story for the first time rejected it so strongly that afterwards he felt an irresistible pity and apologetic deference towards its poor author.
You get the feeling the author threw all of his hatred for the eccentricities and monstrosities of privilege into this portrayal.Murphy and Watt might be numbered among Beckett’s better failures, but Echo’s Bones is surely of interest to anyone who wants to read a work that combines learned wit with exuberant hilarity far better than many efforts of more recent vintage.
"Cut out the style," Lord Gall admonishes Belacqua in Echo's Bones, and Beckett the creator took it to heart; the fewer words he used, the more meaning they carried.
So Echo's Bones is of academic interest to Beckett scholars, readers, fans alike, but little more.
But this is Beckett avant Beckett and it is well worth reading it, if for nothing else, to be thankful he did not continue on that path.
Though published summer 2014, this is one of Beckett's earlier prose works (he was 27 when he wrote it), originally written as the final story of his collection MORE PRICKS THAN KICKS.
It was not, however, published with it.
I read it without having read the original collection, and though I think that would have helped me understand what he was doing with his character Bellacqua a bit better, it is ultimately not necessary to still delight in a youthful, Joyce-influenced Beckett prose that deals in resurrection, witty prostitutes, giants battling impotence and grave robbing (sort of).
SO excited to read a NEW BECKETT!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!too excitedof course it didn't live up - billed as unpublished because it was too dark (conjuring images of a lost Molloy Trilogy) - more like lost Dream of Fair to Middling Women (still in the shadow of Joyce - but emerging) but it's Beckett, so one must read it
Essential reading for Beckett enthusiasts. This story gets us ready for Malloy but it's definitely not Lost Ones or Godot. This is a very transitional piece so if you want to see when he began to change, this is a good story to read. But, for readers who are unfamiliar with Beckett, this might be off putting. It's not nearly as inviting as First Love, Watt or Murphy.
karman çorman, anlaşılması zor ama bir o kadar da sizi içine çeken bir kitap. Yapılan alıntıların çokluğu ve bulunduğu kritik noktalar, genellikle en arkadaki notlar bölümüne sürekli bir gidiş yapmaya zorladığı için hikayeyi takip etmekte zorlaşıyor
Interesting early work. The themes of the later work are definitely there along with Beckett's unique sense of humor. Recommended for the Beckett scholar but not the casual reader. There is better Beckett out there.
Beckett. What can I say? I've loved him from the moment I first laid eyes on him
Would have been the best story in more pricks. Great scholarship too, when do we get the rest of him annotated like this?
Dense. Reading the annotations was at times more enlightening and entertaining than the short story itself. It took me some time to get through; it definitely was enjoyable in a unique way.
Disappointing. I now understand why this remained unpublished during Beckett's life.
I rated and reviewed this book on LibraryThing: http://www.librarything.com/profile_r...
Believe it.
