https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/33722.The_Undomestic_Goddess
Although most of her books deal with both the professional world and relationships, she has managed to make every story unique and immensely entertaining.
Although I didn't enjoy this novel quite as much as I've Got Your Number, it still immediately sucked me in and wouldn't let me stop reading until I finished.
I think if I hadn't read this right after IGYN (my favorite book by her), I would have given it a full 5/5 stars, but blame Sophie Kinsella for making her books like candy.
All in all, I highly recommend it, just like all of her other novels.
She would never read this sort of book; she is into China Meavile, Dan Simmons and Stephen King.
Not the sort of stuff I read...
At first, I was hesitant, but I started reading this in the car on the way home and it was addictive.
I just could not stop; this book is romantic, moving with just the right amount of funny (it had a few of those major laugh out loud, cover mouth with fist moments).
Overall, it was a really good read.Characters: 9/10All just hilarious, even the ones I hated had some really funny lines.
Moving on...Enjoy-ability: 9/10A very fun read.
As you’d expect, the story is a sitcom come to life: a work-obsessed attorney loses her job in a dramatic way and then plunges alone into the countryside à la Jane Eyre, only to wind up being taken in as a housekeeper by some nouveau riche couple.
(“Oddly” because they reminded me of Southern caricatures written by someone who didn’t know any actual Southerners and just created people out of stereotypes — like a hick couple who hits it big in the tire business and moves into a mansion but doesn’t know to lose the big hair and get grammar.
The story of a stressed-out lawyer, stripped of her job and accidentally ending up in the unlikely position of a housekeeper for a nouveau riche couple at a country estate, was very entertaining.
I also bet that she looked into some really excellent scams, and spent a bit of time with some professional housekeepers.
The second half, once Samantha began to get a little bit of control in her life, became quite enjoyable.
The story could be a bit extreme, and there is little reality to how this could happen.
I was a bit disappointed with the ending, but it wasn't anything major.
Sam leaves her job after making a huge mistake that costs her firm millions of dollars.
A bit predictable, but I don't read her books thinking I'm going to be digging into a literary masterpiece.
Sam was an extremely fun character to read about.
In the end Sam has to take a look at her life and really figure out what is important, and what isn't.
Her humor is fresh, and if you go into this book solely expecting a light-hearted, fun read I think you will enjoy it.Recommended to all of Sohpie Kinsella's fans, and all chick-lit lovers.
After reading several books by Kinsella, the only major complaint I have is that the endings are extremely unsatisfying.
It's like as soon as SK decided she'd placed her characters exactly where she wanted, she lost all interest in finishing their story properly.In addition, Nathaniel should have played a bigger role in the book.
Overall, I liked reading The Undomestic Goddess, but I would have enjoyed it a lot more if there had been more story and less narration.
This book doesn't leave any lasting impression, but it's still a fun read as long as you keep your hopes low.2.75/5 starsFor more reviews, visit my blog.
Most of their problems would be gone if they could just tell the truth.
Samantha loses £50 million in her job as a lawyer, so she flees to the countryside and accidentally gets a job as a housekeeper.
She somehow is unable to cook absolutely anything besides toast and can't do laundry or clean...
She meets a cute guy and lets him believe she's fleeing an abusive relationship (WHY why omg why is the truth so hard) and both of her worlds eventually collide.The only character I really loved was the guy's mother who taught Samantha to cook.
I look along the endless line, squinting in the sunshine. I’m twenty-nine years old. I can go anywhere. Do anything. Be anyone I like. “There’s no rush,” I say at last, and reach up to kiss him again. Excellent, funny, cute, sweet, romantic, fun...another great Kinsella book!
The heroine (Samantha) was meant to be an Oxbridge educated lawyer with years of experience in the best law firm in the country, yet somehow she read more like a grade A idiot.
She worked all her life to be a top tier lawyer so why wouldn't she stay and fight for her career and reputation?
It was all so nonsensical.-For a high flying lawyer Samantha sure was an idiot and a half.
She was meant to be a genius lawyer who regularly talked her way through all sorts of tricky situations and dealings yet when she confronted Arnold all she was capable of doing was stomping her feet and pouting, she did nothing to defend her reputation, she just talked rubbish.
Samantha doesn't make mistakes but this time she did and she doesn't know how to face the consequences.Needing time to think Samantha jumps on the nearest train and heads away from the fallout that is sure to come from her costly error.
Not knowing where she's ended up Samantha knocks on the nearest door and finds herself mistaken for someone applying for the job as housekeeper.
Instead of correcting the mistake Samantha stays on until she hears word from her job.I have to admit the believability factor on this one is pretty low with a high powered attorney ending up cooking and cleaning but that's also what makes it so much fun.
I love how she writes.
They are also serious parts but with the way she writes and the way her characters think are very light.
There's also a mixture of romance in her books which gives her all the more reason to be my favorite author.
She was trained by her lawyer mother to be a great lawyer and because of that she dedicated herself in that career.
She was the perfect lawyer and she was about to get a full equity partner ship which was her and her mother's long lived dream for her.
I read Kinsella's "Confessions of a Shopaholic" last year and enjoyed it very much.
Since then, I haven't found the time to read her sequels, but recently, I picked up "The Undomestic Goddess" from the library and started reading.
As entertaining as this book was, it bordered on the antagonizing that everything so conveniently fell in Samantha Sweeting's lap.
I actually read it like a screenplay.
If it is turned into a movie, I'd probably go see it with the right cast.
I'm very curious who they'd pick for Nathaniel...
I couldn't picture Samantha either.Bottomline, fun and brainfree.
This book is one of my favorites. It's simply hilarious. Smart, witty, and romantic.The switch from sharp lawyer to house maid is genius.In the plot there's also a hidden agenda that our heroine has to uncover and that keeps the reader on edge. This is Kinsella at her best.Funny Quote"My eye flicks to the figure quoted in bold under Weekly Salary. It’s slightly less than I charged per hour as a lawyer."
I don't know, I guess I'm not much of a Sophie Kinsella fan. I've read a couple of her "Shopaholic" books as well as this one, and they just annoy me. Her characters are twits. Even in this one, where the main character is an intelligent, well-educated, about-to-become-partner Lawyer . . . she's still a twit. I highly doubt I will subject myself to any further twittery and shall skip her books in the future.
Actual rating 4.75What a great read. I really loved this one! No love triangles or weird romances - Nathaniel is a new book boyfriend. Loved the message in this book as well.
Although I had a few problems with this book, I enjoyed it immensely.The undomestic Goddess follows a 29 year old Lawyer named Samantha, who from the age of 12 was so focused on her career and going to the next level, she forgot how to live.
And although I found it a bit unrealistic that a 29 year-old living alone doesn’t even know what’s a vacuum cleaner, I still laughed when she was trying to adapt into her new job as a housekeeper.
I’d recommend this book to anyone wanting to read something light and sweet, or is in a reading slump.
I was looking for some fluff, something with a sense of humor.
The book blurb makes it sound like fun.
The cutesy-cover makes it look like fun.
The tone of the writing make it sound like fun.
I found no fun.I listened to 75 minutes of the 6.5 hour CD version of the book; during that time I didn't find a character that I was remotely interested in, nor did I ever crack a smile (even an inward one).
Seriously, if you're supposed to be clever, funny, or even mildly witty, don't you think you ought to put some of that stuff in the first 20% of the book?I'm sure someone out there thinks this writer's stuff is hilarious.
Although a bit dated- written in 2006- with its Blackberry devices for texting, computers for email and cell phones for calls only, the story is filled with the typical Kinsella contentious creatures as well as those truly most admirable who either trip up our heroine Arden or offer her safe haven.
After accepting the strong headache pills from the house owner Trish, Arden cavalierly interviews for the position of housekeeper which she didn't know about and would never have considered but for her terrible day.
Lots of action, interaction, a bit of silliness and a whole bunch of nice made The Undomestic Goddess the right kind of friend for a day.
At first I was so frustrated about the whole lie-about-everything situation, but then it became hilarious!I love the Geigers :D a stupid bunch but they're awesome and I love them!Nathaniel and his mom are amazing people!Towards the end, I honestly had several different outcomes planned in my head.(view spoiler)[When Guy visited her trying to get her back, I was waiting for her to yell at him to get out of the kitchen.
Δεν έτυχε να διαβάσω άλλο βιβλίο της συγγραφέως και νομίζω ότι έκανα την καλύτερη αρχή. Η Σαμάνθα ειναι επιτυχημένη δικηγόρος σε γνωστή δικηγορική εταιρεία και ένα βήμα πριν την ανακύρηξή της σε συνέταιρο, βρίσκεται εξαιτίας ενός λάθους, σε μια έπαυλη να απασχολείται ως οικιακή βοηθός.Η ιστορία ειναι ξεκαρδιστική, ιδιαιτέρως όταν εκείνη προσπαθεί να κάνει εργασίες και να ετοιμάσει γκουρμέ γεύματα, που δεν έχει ιδέα πως γίνονται. Το χιούμορ της Sophie Kinsella, σε κάνει να γυρνάς τις σελίδες συνεχώς. Εύθυμο, χιουμοριστικό, ελαφρύ ανάγνωσμα που το απόλαυσα πραγματικά..
A couple times I would look up from the novel and be surprised I was still sitting in the living-room and not at the Geiger's Inn. The pages fly by really fast but the story never suffers for it.Samantha's mother...
She almost convinced herself I think that she was fine with it, but never quite succeeded.As for Samantha's freak out, her flight response would be probly be what my mind would have done, I don't blame her for wanting to get away.Trish/Eddie/Nathaniel/Iris...
Loved the fact he was understanding with Samantha.One character I was indifferent to but later on when his true colors came out, I wanted to kick him in the balls.
I'm being generous with my stars.
I would really give this book more like 2 1/2 stars.
One minute the character is a powerful well known lawyer, in the best law firm in the country, used to having control over others and the next she is curtseying to her new employers, cooking, cleaning and being dismissed after being given her new chores.
Even though the author tried to make it believable, having Samantha (main character) rationalize and talk herself into the job, there is just no way a person with her education and experience could change so much and be ok with it.
“My life has changed, and I'm changing with it.” Samantha Sweeting is a workaholic.
A mistake that cost her, her job.
A new job ???
She is not appointed as an attorney.
In fact, she got a job as a housekeeper.Great!
But the only problem is that she know nothing about housekeeping.
When Samantha Sweeting attempted to do the best in her newly found job, what happened next was expected.
AND And this,It is a good sweet novel with a touch of humor and romance.
As Samantha continues her life in a small town she realizes what was missing in her previous life; the mere essence of it.
Snobs.Know what I hate even more?
Book snobs.
Not that there's anything wrong with any of those, but there is when a snob firmly believes there's nothing to look for in literature nowadays.
To read 'chick lit' (a term I have problems with based on sexism but nevertheless) is nothing to be ashamed of, either.SOPHIE KINSELLA IS HILARIOUS.
And shit happens.I loved this book.
It is an absolute page turner and I cannot possibly wait to get my hands on a new book by her.
Το “Νοικοκυρά για κλάματα” πραγματικά θεωρώ ότι είναι μια από τις καλύτερες ιστορίες της Κινσέλα.
Ακολουθεί τη συνηθισμένη γραμμή που έχουμε συνηθίσει, από τη συγγραφέα, δηλαδή είναι άλλη μία πανάλαφρη ρομαντική κωμωδία, αυτή τη φορά όμως βασισμένη στο μοτίβο της παρεξήγησης.
Η ηρωίδα είναι συμπαθητική, και παρότι σταδιακά τα κάνει "σαλάτα" μπορούμε να συμπάσχουμε μαζί της, διότι η Κινσέλα τη δικαιολογεί επεξηγώντας μας με υπέροχο τρόπο πως οι καταστάσεις και οι πιέσεις που δέχτηκε την έφτασαν σε ένα περίεργο σημείο.
Συμπαθητικοί και οι δευτερεύοντες χαρακτήρες, συμπληρώνουν υπέροχα το σκηνικό,ενώ η πλοκή είναι χαλαρή και τρυφερή με υπερβολή όσο χρειάζεται για κωμωδία.
I honestly couldn't finish the audiobook. Couldn't care less about the characters and their story. I think this book is worse than Confessions of a Shopaholic. At least the latter managed to be funny sometimes. In all cases, the audiobook is NOT recommended. The narrator's voice doesn't fit at all the main character, Samantha. She sounds too old. My readings by Sophie Kinsella are becoming more and more disappointing with each book. Still, I haven't given up on this author just yet.
I think "Undomestic Goddess" is my favorite of all Sophie Kinsella's books I've read so far.
Although totally predictable, this book was a pleasure to read.
The main reason I enjoyed this book so much is probably because I can totally relate to Samantha.
She thinks that she will be happy after reaching the next step on the career ladder and all her hard work and sacrifices will pay off.
Only while working so hard towards her goal, she fails to enjoy her life.
This was so fun!I really loved this book,it was funny yet serious,it was positive yet kind of sad because of what Sam had to go through.The characters are really good-Sam is so charming and Nat...uh.The supporting characters are so funny,I love Sam's best friend,haha.Love how she (view spoiler)[lied about Sam's birthday just so Sam can have a proper party.♥ (hide spoiler)].The story is very interesting and captivating.I just couldn't wait to find out what will Sam decide and how will everyone re
This was so fun!I really loved this book,it was funny yet serious,it was positive yet kind of sad because of what Sam had to go through.The characters are really good-Sam is so charming and Nat...uh.The supporting characters are so funny,I love Sam's best friend,haha.Love how she (view spoiler)[lied about Sam's birthday just so Sam can have a proper party.♥  (hide spoiler)].The story is very interesting and captivating.I just couldn't wait to find out what will Sam decide and how will everyone react when they find out about her past.Love the twist at the ending!Overall,a really god and fun chick-lit.Favourite quotes:“My life has changed, and I'm changing with it.” “Our whole family thrives under pressure.
But the rest of us.” ["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>
I love this book. This book is my comfort book. The plot is easy and humorous. Very chick lit.
When an up and coming attorney finds herself suddenly out of a job, she does the most logical thing.
She has a meltdown and then finds another job.
This book frequently read like episodes of I Love Lucy.
And I loved it.
The main character,Samantha, was easy to identify with and root for.
And the supporting characters played their respective roles well as Samantha moves from ambitious attorney to harried housekeeper.There is romance and some soul searching as Samantha finds her footing in the the work-a-day world.
If you're looking for a light feel good read, this fills the bill.
