https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/30893.The_Eiger_Sanction
Being nice is how a man pays his way into the party if he hasn't the guts to be tough or the class to be brilliant."Jonathan Hemlock teaches art at a university, but the modest sum he makes teaching doesn't cover his extravagant habits.
The negotiations are ruthless between Hemlock and Dragon, one trying to get as much money as he can from each job and the other trying to make sure he never pays him enough that he quits being an asset.
Hemlock seduces beautiful women, because not only are they making themselves available to him, but they are desirable to collect.
His relentless and erudite monster truck verbal assault on government ineptitude, especially the CIA, was funny as hell.I have not seen the 1975 Clint Eastwood film, but if the production leaves out the satire – then the audience has lost the better half of Trevanian’s work.Dr. Jonathan Hemlock, the protagonist, is an art professor and mountaineer; who has a side job as an assassin.
All joking aside, and there are many laugh out loud scenes; Trevanian’s action writing is top shelf, especially the inspired mountain climbing sections that briefly made me forget the droll satire.Fans of his 1979 novel Shibumi will also enjoy this earlier work.
Many readers and reviewers swallow this book whole without realizing it is a satirical spoof on spy novels and movies of the 1960s, James Bond and the like.
Witness this sentence, where the psychology of the rope that only a real climber would likely know, is precisely expressed in Trevanian's language: "The rope connecting two men on a mountain is more than nylon protection; it is an organic thing that transmits subtle messages of intent and disposition from man to man; it is an extension of the tactile senses, a psychological bond, a wire along which currents of communication flow."I saw the movie years ago, but I don't remember enough to compare it to the book.
Both were perfectly cast & the movie followed the book very well.
For instance, he constantly pokes fun at the CII (a thinly disguised CIA)...but there was no unraveling the serpentine patterns of check and double check, of distrust and redundancy that substituted for security in CII...He doesn't stop there, but peoples those watching the climb with well known figures who are never named but described well enough that they're obvious & never seen as anything but objects of derision.
He paid loving attention to all the details of mountain climbing & most other things, although he did have Hemlock click the safety off a revolver with a silencer.
Jonathan happens to be an ace mountaineer so he brushes up on his skills and joins the climbing team.
He expects to be given the identity of the assassin before the climb starts, but he murders the only man who knows (the owner of Faggot).
And those were also the principal virtues of the women who wore them.”“But the mountain retained its hymen.”“I’m yours to do with, man.
One of the treasures on my parents' bookshelf, when YA got boring. Loved it and read it several times as a teenager. I loved the Clint Eastwood movie as well. I'm actually not sure what came first for me, book or movie...Very likeable main character, although he's an assassin. Well done and suspenseful climbing scenes and climax. Maybe it's time for a re-read...
The book like the movie is not one in the vein of the 007 movie series albeit that some aspects like the "M" in this book wher quite Flemingesque in his appearence.That said it is a straight spy/assassin book from the '70's which can be by some readers argued as not up to the standards of the modern spy novel with all the technology that is around.
I read this book ages ago with other Trevanian books. They were great reads. My favorite was "Shibumi". Eiger Sanction's side plot is about climbing mountains, Shibumi's is about defending into caves.
Trevanian's stories of suspense fell somewhere between the adventurous romantic thrillers of Fleming and the dark, grimy reality of le Carre.
has his own following, I find Fleming to be more engrossingly entertaining and le Carre to be more disturbingly down-to-earth.
Eiger Sanction I also don't think aged as well much of the works of the other two authors.
While the basic plot is good, and well written, the sexuality of the book seems very forced and artificial, even a bit backwards for the time it was written.
It is as if the author had a good idea but was compelled by his editors to add more sex to up the sales numbers.
It’s a delightful paradox.
I think the best thing is that Trevanian has a huge store of knowledge about really diverse subjects (mountain climbing, literature, art, wine, etc.), but is also able to enjoy the more trite bits of the genre.
Trevanian’s double-visioned ability to laugh at and still enjoy the inanities of 1960s and 70s culture and the James Bond films in particular is unparalleled.
And, oh, is he rough on the Swiss—who knew they could be such delightful targets for abuse?
I suppose, if they watch a lot of James Bond and blaxploitation films, they’ll get it.

i'd seen the clint eastwood movie years ago.
television.
description on the back says "part thriller and part satire" but for me any satire musta went over my head.
this guy lives in a renovated catholic church, new york, art collector, assassinates people upon request.
sanctions them not to put too fine a point on it.he gets the call, but he's semi-retired and needs to get in shape.
the eiger is a mountain.trevanian trots around the globe w/his fiction.
while you're trying to figure out who did what (in a good way) things are being done.
people watch.the mountain.
pretty good story.
However the author is misogynistic, extremely sexist when he has anything decent (not being used as a sex toy at the moment) to say about women, racist to the point I want to skip any part where the main character has any interaction with non-whites or non-Americans so I can avoid cringing.
The main guy has every woman on the planet throwing themselves at him, in the case of his virginal neighbor Cherry Pitt literally...give me a break!The satire/parody or whatever this is supposed to be is cringe worthy not funny and any attempt at a joke made falls flat.
Trevanian's contempt for narrative fantasies of the doings of intelligence agents is on full-throttle, and how anyone could read this and not know it's satire at first seems dumbfounding.
But I think that comes about because the level of humor in the first chapter can't be maintained at a book of this length, so that even as he parodies secret agents and the trope of ridiculously named women (Felicity Arce, Randi Knickers, Anna Bidet) who immediately want to sleep with them, we still get caught up in the narrative.
Here, the main narrative pulls are mountaineering rather than espionage, and the sequences with actual climbing are great.
He has an expensive habit, collecting the works of famous artists, which keeps him from being able to go legit.Look, you've got sex, murder and a climax on the treacherous mountain of the title.
It mocks the macho horse-s**t that infuses the subgenre, has characters with names like Urasis Dragon and Felicity Arse, and has the main character succumb to premature ejaculation when he eventually finds someone he cares for.
It's a hoot, I'm saying, but is also a strong thriller in it's own right.If you're looking for a fun spoof, this is a great choice for you.
Bought this to get out of a reading rut. Not as great as his other book, "Shibumi", but good nevertheless. Writing filled with sarcasm and wit. I thought it would be the mountaineering equivalent of Shibumi which spoke about caving and Go, but the mountaineering was just a sideshow. Still, enjoyable read.
Trevanian creates a hilarious espionage thriller which blends multiple genres in a brilliant fashion.The genius of this book lies in its tongue-in-cheek humor and the jokes it pulls at the expense of the CIA.
Hemlock is a remorseless assassin, a serial womanizer, a dare devil and…and…well you know which character it reminds you of doesn’t it ?
Trevanian however does not treat Hemlock seriously, he lets the reader know time and again that the whole thing is a farce and that spies and assassins in fiction have too much of an opinion about themselves.
75% of the book is verbal acrobatics and hilarious ripostes from one character to the next and all of which is highly enjoyable.
Although Eiger Sanction has many things in common with Trevanian’s later masterwork Shibumi such as the super-spy trained in martial arts, the secret government-controlled hit squads, and the mountain climbing, the two novels are very different with Shibumi being a more serious work containing various themes contrasting Eastern and Western ideas and an epic-length history of the main character.
The long treacherous climb up the Eiger is perhaps the apex of this novel and it is worth reading even just for that amazing thrilling step by step climb.
Kovalamaca, polisiye dolu olmasına rağmen okurken ana karakterden etkilenerek gayet sakin kalmayı başarabiliyorsunuz.
Okuduğum iki kitapta da çok fazla benzerlik olduğunu söyleyebilirim.
Ana karakterler sanata ilgili, duygudan yoksun, yetim ve kesinlikle özel olarak büyümüş olan yetenekli insanlar.
Bu özellikle ana karaktere karşı hayranlık duymanızı sağlıyor.
Sanırım kitapların tek kötü yanı bir katile bile sempati uyandırabiliyor olması.
Kitapların bir başka özelliği ise çevresinde çok fazla insan olmasını sevmeyen ana karakterlerin hayatlarında birkaç gerçek dostlarının olması.
Bu kitabın filme uyarlanışı sırasında bir dağcının hayatını kaybetmiş olması bu gibi durumlardan dolayı da yazarın kitaplarında artık ayrıntıdan uzak kalmaya çalıştığı biliniyor.
The most unforgettable sins in the story are the women, a black woman who is named “Jemina Brown”, and American Indian woman named George who is so silent she doesn’t even say “Ugh”, and a British woman named “Randie Nickers.” I kid you not.
Five named women in the book and the three he sleeps with all have “joke” names.
Despite this rather deplorable state of affairs, there are some good bits, like where thinly-veiled unnamed characters representing Onassis, Jackie O, Richard Burton, and Elizabeth Taylor are used for satiric/comedic effect.
Despite that, just a terribly outdated mess.
One star and the title “best worst book of the year.”Recommended to spy thriller masochists only.
Take an arts-history prof/secret weekend assassin, add some ridiculously named randy ladies, tough men and some mountain climbing and you have the Eiger Sanction.Oh, what to say about this one.....adventure, sex, mystery, art, snobbery, and who-dun-it, sort of.
Jonathan Hemlock is an art history professor, contraband painting collector, and (dun, dun, dun) a cold-blooded assassin on the side.
And if that doesn't sound ridiculous, he always gets the ladies.
But he's looking to get out of the assassin business so he can ponder his illegally obtained paintings.
For this job, he must mountain climb.
This book is ridiculous.
Wow, did I ever regret starting this.I get that the book is probably intended to be a parody or satire (please, please, let it be parody) but it never actually seems to make a point - it ranges from dislikable to just plain crass.
It went from bad, to worse, to hilarious, to hysterical, to soul destroying turgidness and oh God I can't believe I bought two of these from the charity shop, I really don't think I can bring myself to read another.
Back to the charity shop it is.Although now I feel guilty about inflicting the pair of them on someone else.
Poor, unsuspecting soul.
#1 in the Jonathan Hemlock series.
A thriller on the slopes of the Swiss Alps.
Made into a 1975 film starring Clint Eastwood and George Kennedy.Jonathan Hemlock - In a renovated Gothic church on Long Island lives Jonathan Hemlock, an art professor and a world-renowned mountain climber who finances his black-market art collection by working as a freelance assassin.Now, Hemlock is being tricked into a hazardous assignment that involves an attempt to scale one of the most treacherous mountain peaks in the Swiss Alps: the Eiger.
His target is one of his three fellow climbers.
Having read it before, I was interested in revisiting the climbing adventure of the Eiger. I didn't really care for the cheesy names like Randie Nickers, Jemima Brown, and Cherry Pitt and of course the spy vs. spy intrigue. But the book was well written and kept me turning pages. I was surprised once again with the ending. I would like to one day stay at one of the Kleine Scheidegg hotels and view the scenery.
The plot was a little thin and the villains not that interesting, but I still enjoyed the movie.With that in mind, and with having just visited the Eiger, I looked forward to reading this book.
Besides the climbing scenes, the rest of the book is pure vapid crap.
Yes, I realize it's supposed to be a satire of spy novels like Bond, but Trevanian's overt misogyny and hatred for anyone who wasn't white, American, and heterosexual got old quickly.
The novel is trite and, outside the climbing passages, unreadable.
Isn't satire supposed to be funny and/or an ironic and interesting spin on the subject?
The ridiculous stuff is okay because it's satire and because of the quality of the verisimilitude (the realistic details about climbing, for instance); the suspense is legitimate.Here's a scene where Trevanian uses the climbing team's first glimpse of Eiger as a concise opportunity for characterization:"'I had no idea this mountain Jean-Paul has been talking about for a year now would be so beautiful,' Madame Bidet said, taking off her sunglasses for the first time that morning and letting her calm eyes rest on Jonathan."'I would not say beautiful,' Bidet offered.
I have always liked the movie and someone gave me the book as a gag gift.
I had read that the novel was supposed to be a satire of the spy genre, and it is but doesn't quite get ridiculous enough to be a satire.
By the time it came out, James Bond had become so over-the-top that it was already kind of a satire of itself so the book doesn't seem that extreme by comparison.
I was surprised how engrossed I was while reading it.
I road past my stop on the train I was so into it, which is always a sign of a good book.
A James Bond Type Thriller From 1968The leading character is so much like Bond. Connoisseur of everything — liquor, painting, women can’t resist him, men and nature can’t defeat him. Dated hero in 2018. All point to a climactic climb on the forbidding Eiger. I read it because of a trip to a village close to the Eiger many years ago. I enjoyed my trip more than I did the Eiger Sanction!
Même si nous devions réserver 5 étoiles aux chefs d’œuvres littéraires, ce roman les mérites au titre qu’il m’ytenue en haleine, il a « fait le job » de m’envoyer directement sur la face Nord de l’Eiger. J’ai apprécié les reflets de parodie de 007 et le refus de verser dans un sentimentalisme à l’eau de rose !
la première partie met en scène un super tueur, une sorte de James BOND dans une organisation gouvernementale d'une autre époque, et avec des seconds degrés et des préjugés qui semblent eux même avoir bien vieilli. La deuxième partie avec l'ascension de l'EIGER et la résolution du scénario sauve (un peu) le roman
