https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/845501.The_Fifth_Head_of_Cerberus
Suffice it to say that Wolfe’s obsessions with identity and memory play a central role in this story and the fact that many of the key events of the tale happen ‘off-screen’ (or are expressed via the unreliable first-hand narration of the main character…damn Mr. Wolfe loves him some unreliable narration) leaves any final conclusion dubious at best.
The Fifth Head of Cerberus: Three novellas about identity, memory, and colonizationOriginally posted at Fantasy LiteratureI don’t think I’m the only reader drawn to Gene Wolfe’s books — hoping to understand all the symbolism, subtleties, oblique details, unreliable narrators, and offstage events — and finding myself frustrated and confused, feeling like it’s my lack of sophistication and careful reading ability to blame.
So I’ll just lay out the basic details, and if you are intrigued, then pick up the book and have a go at it yourself.The Fifth Head of CerberusWe are introduced to the twin worlds of Saint Croix and Saint Anne, which were originally colonized by French settlers but later were overtaken by later waves of colonists from Earth.

But I can only muster mild "like" for the thing, and I feel as though I must have missed something along the way in my insomnia reading haze.
And I can't really see myself going back to redress the situation because I just don't feel connected to Gene Wolfe's work.I read what Ursula K.
And I see Wolfe playing with the themes that people venerate this work for, but I can't quite put my finger on anything that I can personally take away.So I walk away from the book unmoved and uninspired, yet I see its quality.
"The Fifth Head of Cerberus" is perhaps the best place to start, not because it is his easiest work (it is not), but because is both fairly compact and an example of Wolfe at his best.
Wolfe is said to have claimed "my definition of good literature is that which can be read by an educated reader, and reread with increased pleasure." "The Fifth Head of Cerberus" is, by that standard, some of the very best literature there is.
When you inevitably wonder about something you may have missed, worry not -- you can and will enjoy the work even more on re-reading.

I have a backlog as long as my arm of books that were picked for discussion in that group!
And they always pick interesting ones.This was my first Gene Wolfe book, so I wasn't entirely sure what to expect.
Normally I'd find it a turn-off, but it's worth just letting the narrative carry you along.I don't know if I'm going to read more of Gene Wolfe's work, oddly enough.
I liked this very much, and may even reread it, but it wasn't easy.
Marsch, and common topics about identity, humanity, and memory.The Fifth Head of CerberusThe first novella is a coming-of-age story with a narrator called “Number Five” written from a first person point of view.
At some point it becomes clear, that Marsch is really replaced by a shape-changing aborigine.ReviewThis is a brilliantly narrated Gothic Mystery, a pivotal story in Gene Wolfe’s writing career and one of the high points of 1970s Science Fiction.“When I was a boy my brother David and I had to go to bed early whether we were tired or not.”This first sentence echoes Proust and is the beginning of a masterpiece in prose, world-building, and engaging riddles.
I hadn’t read Gene Wolfe before, though I’d read of him and had seen pictures of his enormous moustache.
I actually thought he was dead, thanks to a recent Magazine of Fantasy and Science Fiction tribute issue.
I read this on the recommendation of Jay Lake, who had read my review of Samuel R.
Delany’s Einstein Intersection and commented that Wolfe’s The Fifth Head of Cerberus said many of the same things.
The three novellas comprising The Fifth Head of Cerberus form one of the finest examples of post-colonialist literature I’ve read, commenting on racial identity, passing, occupation, and cross-cultural hybridization with eloquence and mystery.
Thanks, Jay!
More like a channelled work than a structured effort, the sort of sophistry produced after poor choices in moustachery followed by ingesting sour crab cakes and having your nap interrupted by the inevitable gas.
I believe the Cantonese character expresses it best as, "little crab cake gas dreams."I once believed I possessed complex tastes in stories.
Wanted: like able main character who goes on a compressed adventure that has some meaning or bearing on the world at large.
After a half hours listen, why should I care about this generic child?Not playing fair is not novelty, it's poor writing.
There's a preoccupation with doubling and shifting identity in The Fifth Head of Cerberus that brought Jan Potocki's The Manuscript Found in Saragossa to mind, though the two books are otherwise quite dissimilar.
But The Fifth Head of Cerberus, though it only comprises three distinct stories, is a knot.(Having said that, I'm not sure that I think that this book is as opaque as some of the other reviewers indicate; I do think that a second reading would clear up a few questions.)
Peta glava Kerbera je...
roman od tri naučnofantastične novele koje mogu da se čitaju i zasebno (ne preporučujem jer je onda frustracija još veća), i koji po autorovom proverenom običaju otvara više pitanja nego što daje odgovora.
Ali istovremeno pruža i istančane portrete nekoliko odreda neprijatnih ljudi i izuzetno bogatu sliku jednog mogućeg sveta i razvoja ljudskog roda i nabacuje neke probleme kolonijalizacije u svemiru i nepostojanosti ličnog i kolektivnog identiteta (to Vulf radi uvek, znam) i poigrava se mitologijom (rekla bih pre svega australijskom ali ko zna) i kloniranjem i ima neke insajderske šale (hvala K.
I've learned that when reading Wolfe, one should expect an oblique story, a narrative that makes little sense on the surface, who's meaning must be gleaned by penetrating the layers of the story, picking up on cryptic clues and piecing it altogether upon reflection after finishing the book.
If you read this edition, I would strongly recommend reading the introduction after you have finished the book because it is spoiler laden beyond belief.I generally like ambiguity and obliqueness in stories that leave you pondering it's implications afterwards but this is nearly too much for me.
I found the first story very good, but a little boring and not very credible in the mix of 19th century+future (in the New Sun series there are good reasons to make that believable, but here they are not). The second story is utterly uninteresting and unreadable; the third just very boring.I love GW in his Sun series, but this book was a big let-down for me.
Me ha gustado muchísimo. Próximamente, en SuperSonic.
In einem SF Roman rechnet man nicht mit einer so genauen, brutal offenen Sezierung.Die Geschichte selbst ist sehr eindringlich geschrieben.
Es scheint aber immer ein Detail zu fehlen, um sich komplett einen Reim auf die Ereignisse bilden zu können.In der zweiten Geschichte, die einfach A Story, by John V.
Dadurch gibt es zwar einiges Stirnrunzeln, was für einen Sinn bestimmte Ereignisse haben, aber der Fluss stimmt einfach und man fühlt sich miteinbezogen.
Auf seinen Reisen hat er viel zusammengetragen, der Höhepunkt ist aber eine Expedition mit einem Halb-Annesen auf den Spuren von vergangenen heiligen Plätzen.
Ist man der für den man sich hält?
The stories address identity, self-identity, and the assumption or appropriation of identity, in a spiraling, fractal path, each one bouncing off the other in unexpected and exhilarating ways.
In particular, "A Story", by John V.
Marsch's--(view spoiler)[V.R.T's ?
(hide spoiler)]--situation, and the truth of his supposed revolutionary activities, are a minor footnote in someone else's career.
In fact, based on his careless, contemptuous handling of evidence, he is not interested in Marsch or the truth of his crime, only in determining the correct course of action based on political ramifications.
Nobody cares who Marsch really is.
Three linked novellas set on the sister planets of Sainte Anne and Sainte Croix, each with a different tone and focus but a common question: what really happened to Sainte Anne's aboriginal inhabitants? Each made me want to go back and reread the previous for clues that I had missed. The intricate balance of the three is fantastic. This is a hard one to discuss without spoiling it, so I'm not going to say much.
The Science Fiction Aficionados Group has thread in which a member of the group can add, without repeating ones already there, his or her favorite sci fi book.
There were 90 books on it the last time I looked.
I am slowly working by way through and am more than half done.
I'm not reading in any sort of order.
It was very challenging - not like any sci fi book I've read before.
I cannot say I liked it but I can say I respect the creativity, especially for a book published in 1972.
Despite all of that, play is a key word because there's a lot of subtle punning around Wolfe's name and shots taken at Academics.
It reads like a bumbling colonial anthropologist recounting a myth of the people who were native to the other half of the twin planets.
The themes from the first section are at play here as well, but from another angle.The third novella reveals the extent of the cruelty, evil and absurdity of the government of the planet from the first section.
This is maybe the most Wolfean Wolfe novel I've yet encountered, while also having almost nothing in common with the other books I've read by Wolfe.It's intensely slippery and treads water in a number of genres and styles, doing each one better than just about anyone.
Each novella is very different but they all play together to create something quite large and perplexing and opaque but also so fun.It's probably one of the strangest books I've read this year.
Not because of the content, but because he does so many things in so many different ways and never manages to even stumble or slip.
The greatest study on identity or the loss of it!
This is pure literary science fiction, in which the plot is not the point, but the theme, and that theme is Colonialism, racism, and institutionalized Colonialism and racism, and the role of identity and memory.The protagonist of the overarching story is an anthropologist named John V.
These details are gleaned from reading between the lines in the process of the existing stories to form all the pieces of the puzzle.What it has to say about identity, memory and Colonialism is brilliant and thought-provoking.
How it leads to the persecution of a class of people which is cloaked in "righteousness." How identity depends a great deal on not only genetics and experience, but on one's personal narrative.
Veil thought that when the ships came from Earth the abos killed everyone and took their places and the ships, so they’re not dead at all, we are.” Veil’s Hypothesis seems not to be strictly correct, but it is an excellent guide to the themes of the three stories, which are filled with doublings and murders, of and by: clones, twins, shapeshifters.
3 linked novellas in a famous book published ~40 years ago; the first one which gives the title is e
Unlike other readers, I found the first part to be the least engaging by the way.It's not so much that I had trouble making out the main puzzle to which the narrative returns time and again.
Yeah, piecing the cultural and social clues together is fun but when the characters are also puzzles, we need to pile guesses upon guesses.On top of that, the meandering, aimless and bizarre narrative made the author even harder to follow although I appreciated the refreshing shifts in style and subject matter.The book's weaknesses are also strengths and I respect Wolfe's ambition but there's such a thing as taking a good thing too far.
Actually, it is a collection of three shorter stories with a single unifying theme, and that is what makes it a book.
I am glad that I went all the way through the second story because much of it is explained in the third story.
To me, that feels like over-egging the pudding.The common theme and narrative throughout the book was one of identity and belonging.
It is a story about immigration and assimilation, which is likely to be a hot political topic for the rest of this decade.For that reason alone, this book is worth reading.
The original occupants seem to have been all but forgotten or regulated to the status of myths.
There is an interesting theory, that the original natives were actually shape shifters and have replace the human settlers with clever human copies.First story, best of the lot, in my opinion.
Two young men grow up in a very sheltered life and learn the strangeness of their world and family a little at a time.The second story should have been my favorite, but I found it the most difficult.
We get to meet the original occupants before the humans landed.
The Fifth Head of Cereberus is three stories that take place on the twin planets of Sainte Croix and Sainte Anne.
It has almost a flavor, just the slightest taste, of steampunk.The recurring character plays only a minor role in the first story.
It is a dreamtime fable, a story of the primtitive people of Sainte Anne, now generally thought to be extinct.
The third is readings from the notes and transcripts of this character, an anthropologist, as he sets out on a expedition on Sainte Anne to find the Annese, the native aborigines.
And transcripts of his interrogations after his imprisonment upon returning to Sainte Croix.
(After the last novella, the middle one makes a lot more sense and is more interesting in context, but that didn't help when I was struggling through it.) The worldbuilding was good and interesting (the way the society is revealed to the reader is particularly good in the first novella), and it was fun seeing the twists I'd suspected gradually come clear, as well as the connections between the three stories.This was written in 1972 and generally holds up well, though bits seem dated: having the planets originally colonized by the French seems kind of hilarious now.
