https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1158873.Creative_Mind
Note from friend: -It's about how our own thoughts ultimately determine our destiny; we can change our life experiences,if we wish, by first changing our thoughts.
This is really insightful book. It makes you think more about life and how you have been living it. I loved reading about how we are all in control of our own lives. If we want it, we can get it. All we have to do is to believe and we shall receive. My views on some things have changed since reading this book and I am looking at a brighter future because of it.
Ernest Holmes was one of the authors that guided me out of the darkest years of my life. I still take this book off the shelf from time to time to help focus my thinking.Reread Nov. 20, 2011
I don't know if this is the same as Creative Mind and Success but I listened to it on YouTube. I've taken in enough new thought material that this wasn't new information but I still enjoyed it, as I'm trying to soak in the knowledge until it's second nature to work with and not just stuff I happen to remember when I'm intentionally focusing.
I was enjoying this book until the very end, he contradicted the Bible. He stated the we are not all sinners, when the Bible clearly states that fact Romans 3:23 (KJV) For all have sinned, and come short of the glory of God;We are not perfect beings.
By far the best book I had ever red. Very deep had to read the chapters several times. And I definitely plan to re read again and again to fully understand the whole book. But it is a eye/mind opener and life changing world changing book. Thank you Ernest Holmes.
This is one of my favorite and most powerful positive thinking books I’ve ever read. It sits on my nightstand and I pick it up all the time to motivate me
It definetly helps understanding of the mind and creativity (duh!) and how everything really workshowever, it's not something i enjoyed reading
A great reference to life lessons that deserves multiple reads.
Ernest Holmes was a revolutionary, but I see a lot of gaps in his theory. Nevertheless there is a great deal of important information in this book, which describes a paradigm from which everyone in the world could derive some benefit.I listened to it as an audiobook narrated by Hillary Hawkins, and her narration irritated me the whole time. It feels alternatively artificial and patronizing. I'll be avoiding books narrated by her in the future.
Another profound read by Holmes. I am ever reminded of the power within, and how we shape our lives and do so in each moment that we engage in thought, for better or worse. May it be for the better that manifestation reflects the highest consciousness.
Outstanding Work For Mental Development and Spiritual Strength
Inspiring. Don't know I believe it. But it's nice to think all the power is within.
The author advises us to think positive all the time and spend more time in nature.
Thought are the beginning of everything.
God and man are one.
man is the center of intelligence.
Destroy every negative thought.
Nothing is limited by conditions.
Deny the sick an confirm the good.
No man can get sick if he does not believe it.
Never think about the negative side of life.
If you surround yourself with happy people, you will never see an unhappy life.
Growth is the law of life.
If you limit it, you will not see the bigger thing.
Never again, limit anything.
Little thoughts can become big thoughts - that can be for good or for bad.
Humbug.
