https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/50662.Blood_Shot
Book Review  4 of 5 stars to Blood Shot, the fifth release in a mystery series of 20 books (and still counting), written by Sara Paretsky in 1988. I stumbled upon this thriller and suspense book series during college, upon coming across some of the bright yellow, red and purple covers. After catching my attention, I gave them a chance and then devoured several in a row in the first few years to try to catch up. The main character, VI Warshawski, is a tough female private investigator in Chicag
4 of 5 stars to Blood Shot, the fifth release in a mystery series of 20 books (and still counting), written by Sara Paretsky in 1988.
VI, reluctant to help, gives in and starts an explosive path into history, uncovering crimes among the big business world, including toxic chemicals and the lengths people will go to keep some information secret.For those new to the series...
Please forgive me, I was a naive 20 year old from the suburbs who thought all people were generally friendly.
This is number five in the series and it is holding up well. I am trying to space them out with plenty of other books in between so that I come to each one fresh and ready to find out what our amazing P.I is up to now! This particular book is very good; lots of excitement, a good story, some new and interesting characters and many of our favourite characters back to entertain us. I am already looking forward to the next one.
V.I. would rather drive into hell than go back to her old Chicago neighborhood, but a pleading request from a childhood friend, Carolyn Djiak, during a charity basketball game for her old high school forces her to submit to her conscience and give in.
For the first time, V.I. wants to solve this mystery, even after Carolyn reverses herself and tries to fire the stubborn P.I.Every rock that V.I. turns over seems to lead to an ever-growing pile of evidence of a cover-up and corruption - but what?
2017 reread: While some aspects of this 5th entry of the Warshawski series are slightly dated, overall it remains an exciting PI story. Paretsky creates a great sense of place with her descriptions of various parts of Chicago, especially the economically struggling South Side. I found that even though I recalled some aspects of the story from my previous reading (20 or so years ago), much of the story took me by surprise, making this a more exciting read than I had expected.
When I started this book, I didn’t understand how much I wanted a read that rose to five stars.
I am passing on my Warshawski books to my 92 year old Dad; he thinks it is not quite believable that she gets beat up regularly but bounces back quite rapidly for more.
And she carries her gun quite a lot and actually fires it in this book.You may wonder what the police are doing while Warshawski is busy solving the murder.
You make life very hard for those who love you.” I can only wonder how this truth will play out in the coming books in the series.
It is quite good and a good example of the quality of her series.One reason I liked this better than some of the books is that Vic is drawn book to her roots in the old South Chicago neighborhood she was raised in.
They have plenty to hide, and are willing to use almost any means to stop anyone asking too many questions.....Fast paced; a good read; with some excellent background material about Vic and her parents.
No unusual plot twists--rather, like most real investigations the information is discovered bit by careful bit.For those who have not read this series at all, I would recommend it as an excellent place to start.
Tough detective VI is tough.
She remembers her mum: loving, but tough.
She remembers her neighbour: flighty, but tough.
She leans on her Dr friend Lotty: caring, but tough.
She meets an elderly lady: unfulfilled, but tough.
Tough women are tough.
In a tough town.
Possibly, if there'd been less authorial focus on being tough, the book could be a little shorter.
I hoped I was that tough forty years ahead."The plot?
It takes a while to find out, and you have to be TOUGH to take the pace.
I thought I remembered liking the VI Warshawski series.
Blood Shot begins with Victoria Warshawski going back to her old neighborhood in South Chicago.
The mystery which sets up the story has to do with identifying and finding the biological father of a childhood friend, but it is set in the midst of a decaying community which has already been the victim of pollution and very much bears the scars of greed and abuse.
The answer to that mystery is telegraphed very early such that Blood Shot would be very unsatisfying if that were all there was to the story.
I usually finish mysteries within 5-10 Days. But this book was a slow read. The last sixty pages are suspenceful. This is not one of Sara PRetsky's best.
Warshawski has a gun which she is licensed to carry.
Yet, she consistently leaves the gun at home, especially at times when you would think that she would know enough to carry it with her.
On page #154 Warshawski tells us: “I don’t make a habit of carrying a gun -- if you do, you get dependent on them and your wits slow down …” Does she believe, then, that police officers are slow witted?
On top of that, after Warshawski shoots two men and the police arrive, her gun is not confiscated and held for evidence.
But the most impressive thing of all to me about Paretsky’s writing is her ability to create a whole, cohesive world, that has a past, a present, and a future, and which is filled with familiar settings and characters.
Even V.I.’s parents, who are both dead before the series ever begins, come across as authentic and specific, and their somewhat mismatched yet successful marriage seems like something that couldn’t possibly be made up.In this book, Vic is reunited with some friends from childhood and high school, and despite an initial reluctance, she is drawn back into some of the settings of her past as she investigates some crimes in the present.
In this book Paretsky gives us a tour of Chicago with all the sights, sounds, smells and history of Chicago’s South side.
This book was written in 1989 when computers were just starting to be common place but cell phones were rare and expensive.
In hunting for men her mother knew from work Vic finds many have died of kidney or liver cancer and discovers how toxic Xerxine is.
Paretsky always has created great characters and this book is no exception.
The book has a great plot and numerous sub plots that keep the readers on their toes.
Each time I'm midway through a VI book I get this feeling that that one is better than the one that came before, and I can't tell if it's just because the story is new and fresh and I'm in it, or if it actually is better; hopefully a bit of both.
The first two thirds of the book are really engrossing and scary and fun, but once ish goes down in the Xerxes plant, the way the loose ends get or don't get tied up in the end felt pretty weak.
I felt this way especially concerning the whole arc with Caroline, it was just so eh.
Fifth entry in a mystery series occurring in Chicago in the 1980s. Loved seeing the protagonist complain about the clubs and hearing about locations and conditions that no longer occur in the Loop.While some plot devices are now irrelevant, a person leaving two messages with your answering service, which you don't receive until after they are dead; the story itself kept me reading nonstop. I almost broke the cardinal rule of kindle reading and skipped ahead to the end, so I could taste the cup of Warshawski's victory early.I haven't read a bad novel in this series yet.
V.I. is drawn back to her old neighborhood and becomes embroiled in a search to find out was the father of an old friend. The search opens old wounds and causes some powerful people to become worried that past actions will be uncovered and puts V.I. at grave risk.
One of my favorite things about this series is the way it shines light on crime with a financial element. To my economic-rationalist mind, it's a great relief to read a mystery where the motive isn't that the perp is crazy and/or sexually deranged.
This is not quite as obvious of a mystery, but her interpersonal relationships are still totally unbelievable. I’m mad at myself for wasting so much of my time, and completely amazed that anyone sees anything in these.
Much better crime fiction than anything I've read by men. Believable characters, well-written.
Good story but not the best of the series.Her friend Caroline is extremely annoying and detracts from the book.
I love this book because it has Caroline in it. I don't know what it is, but I love Vic's little friend so much. (I say little but she's a grownup.)
Another installment in the adventures of private detective V.I. Warshawski.
Against her better judgment, V.I. agrees to look for the father of one of her childhood friends, whose mother has steadfastly refused to reveal his identity.
An obvious place to start is with some of the mother's former co-workers at a solvent plant, who turn out to be dead.
Warshawski's digging sets off alarms at the highest level and soon even the friend who hired her is begging her to stay away from the case.
Dieser Öko-Krimi hat alles, was einen Guten Detektiv-Roman auszeichnet. Einprägsame Charaktere, Spannung, gelungene Millieuschilderungen, einen durchsetzungsfähigen Detektiv, bei Paretsky ist es eine resolute Detektivin, und ein kniffliger Fall, d. h. eigentlich sind es zwei Aufträge, einen, den sie sich selbst stellt und einen für den sie bezahlt wird. Er enthält auch eine Portion Sozialkritik, die aber implizit vermittelt wird.
V. I. Warshawski is a well established female PI. While I know that in many ways this is a send up of the genre I was a bit disappointed. Seen as one of the few feminist detective characters the rest of the women in the book were terrible characters. Maybe I just got a bad book (its only the 5th of 17) and also a bit of its time 1988.
not my favorite. V.I.'s tough gal attitude got a bit old on this one. I really like the narrator but she did a lot of yelling on this one and I didn't care for that. the plot was a bit weird and some of it still made no sense to me at the end. I hope the next one is better.
Library copy--LW, August 2017.Been years since I read V.I.'s exploits, but she's still worth reading, even tho' she lives in the 1980s, when you had to find a pay phone on the corner to make a call. I like her description of the 79-yr-old Ms Chigwell, who helps Vic in rescuing Louisa.
It was 20 years since I last read this book. I really liked this because the plot was not simple or obvious. The supporting characters in V.I.'s life weren't as annoying either as in the later books. This was not a quick read, which was also nice!
I’m working my way through the V. I. W books and thoroughly enjoying them. Good old fashioned mysteries. This one was particularly interesting as I worked for a chemical company for many years so enjoyed the references to the industry and the companies in it.
I love the VI Warshawski series...this one seemed to portray vi as too much the tough pi...too much smart mouth, too much tough gal that it was not believable... That's why the 4 stars instead of 5 that I usually give....
GOOD STORY, FUN READ!
[review to follow...]
