https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/396635.The_Avion_My_Uncle_Flew
Ditto the French, and the Americans for that matter.The boy does complain how the French language makes no sense (for example, 'the house of the woman' instead of 'the woman's house), but it's obviously meant to be humor, as the reader laughs at (and with) the boy instead of at the French.I believe the Newbery committee liked the idea of pointing out that war also has an impact on the home front, and that recovery is a challenge in that war isn't actually over when it's dated as such.
I had finished whatever book I had read, taken the quiz and was ready to move upto the Brown Section - WHICH, LIKE A ONE TIME WONDER SAVANT, I HAPPEN TO RECALL.The book that everyone had been raving about was checked out, so I dejectedly picked out another.AND SO A PATH WAS FORGED IN MY LIFE- the road less traveled.Honestly, I recall little of the story, but it was good.
An American boy from Wyoming, or Montana?, HAS TO STAY THE SUMMER WITH HIS UNCLE IN FRANCE!!
He likes France after all.The AMAZING part is that THE LAST CHAPTER IN THIS BOOK IS WRITTEN ENTIRELY IN FRENCH!!AND I COULD READ AND UNDERSTAND IT!
While his uncle works on building a glider that will hopefully resolve his financial woes, John becomes obsessed with finding a suspected Nazi soldier hiding out in the nearby mountains.This is a YA-level mystery that kept me completely engaged and charmed while adding quite a bit to my limited French vocabulary.
The French is very cleverly woven into the story so that you learn right along with John as he and his friends get in over their heads in a dangerous adventure.
Learn French as you read this mystery for 8 - 11 .
To help motivate him, his parents promise to buy him a bike with high gears, low gears and medium gears if he can walk two miles by the end of his time in France and to buy him an electric dynamo if he can write his mom a letter in French.
Jean spends his time learning French, helping his uncle with his airplane, making friends and trying to prove that there is a German hiding nearby.
Through repetition, you become familiar with the words and at the end of the novel I was able to read what Jean writes to his mother in French.
I would give this 5 stars if it weren't for the few negative stereotypes reinforced. Given when it was written, I expected these. It's a wonderful story of post war (WWII) France. It includes enough mystery to appeal to adults and enough child adventures and teen thinking to enjoy perhaps as young as 6 or 7. It includes a rudimentary lesson in the French language.
It was a pretty good story about catching and dealing with Nazis and collaborators after World War II in France. It started 0ut teaching the narrator as well as the reader some French words. Then it seemed to add some French vocabulary that hadn't been explained, and it tended to be confusing.
It was alright. The language used at times was dated but that is to be expected in any piece of literature.
3.5⭐️
The cleverest thing is how he brings his non-French-speaking readers along for the trip, teaching them about as much of the French language as he learns during his two-month adventure in the mountains of south-central France.At first, however, Johnny is not so very admirable - as he admits himself, with shame.
And my opinion of the French idea of being comfortable dropped down lower than gravel.In brief, I learned; I laughed; I had a great time.This book, based loosely on its author's experiences as a Franco-American youth visiting France between the World Wars, won a 1947 Newbery Honor award.
We meet 12-year-old Johnny Littlehorn of Wyoming, who starts off as a spoiled baby, but who thankfully matures to become a local hero!
Then John meets his vivacious Uncle Paul who rescues him in more ways than one.
Everyone needs an uncle like Paul, who is the only one who believes the boy.
It takes John and his new French buddy to unmask the real traitor!
Boys will love this book but girls should read it too, for the French girl shows wit, spunk and compassion as she helps our hero.
There is definitely a sub-theme going on about how the boy is trying to learn French the whole time.
Now, anyone who knows any French whatsoever knows that someone that has never seen written French couldn't even get close to guessing what those words are supposed to be spelled like, let alone write a complete letter.Anyway, long story short: if the author just said the boy was trying to learn French without trying to teach it to us himself, then this would be a pretty darn good book.
I had finished whatever book I had read, taken the quiz and was ready to move upto the Brown Section - WHICH, LIKE A ONE TIME WONDER SAVANT, I HAPPEN TO RECALL.The book that everyone had been raving about was checked out, so I dejectedly picked out another.AND SO A PATH WAS FORGED IN MY LIFE- the road less traveled.Honestly, I recall little of the story, but it was good.
An American boy from Wyoming, or Montana?, HAS TO STAY THE SUMMER WITH HIS UNCLE IN FRANCE!!
He likes France after all.The AMAZING part is that THE LAST CHAPTER IN THIS BOOK IS WRITTEN ENTIRELY IN FRENCH!!AND I COULD READ AND UNDERSTAND IT!
gr 4+1946 St Chamant, France 12 year old Johnny Littlehorn can't believe his parents are sending him to spend the summer in a tiny little French village to live with an uncle he's never met.
As his uncle teaches him French and Johnny becomes interested in the airplane/avion his uncle is building, Johnny discovers that village life isn't so bad.
The villagers, except his uncle, don't believe him, but Johnny is determined to find proof.The book had a bit of a slow start, but once Johnny finds evidence of a Nazi spy it picks up speed.
As he explores the town and make new friends, he comes to realize that there is a Nazi spy hiding in the town, who also seems to hold a personal vendetta against him.It depicts the thought process of a stubborn young boy who transforms in to a completely different personality as the town challenges him with unusual life experiences.THE BEST PART - When the boy mingles with the French people, he starts learning the French language.
I wish to read such books for a lot of other languages or dream to write one, for Hindi or Gujarati.It is a very distinctive way to learn a new language.
gr 4+1946 St Chamant, France 12 year old Johnny Littlehorn can't believe his parents are sending him to spend the summer in a tiny little French village to live with an uncle he's never met.
As his uncle teaches him French and Johnny becomes interested in the airplane/avion his uncle is building, Johnny discovers that village life isn't so bad.
The villagers, except his uncle, don't believe him, but Johnny is determined to find proof.The book had a bit of a slow start, but once Johnny finds evidence of a Nazi spy it picks up speed.
I read this to 11-year-old Josh and he wasn't as excited about the French words (or hearing me practice pronouncing them repeatedly) but he loved the suspenseful parts about the boy discovering a Nazi hiding in the mountains and the boy's attempts to get away from the bad guys, through a cemetery at night...
Josh is fascinated with flight so he loved the parts about building and flying an airplane/glider and he let me know if the plane (as described) could truly fly.
(He thought it could, though he said the picture on the cover is NOT accurate and would not survive a flight.)
I was given this book by a friend who recommended it.
The story starts out in English but over the story the character is constantly introduced to more French vocabulary which climaxes in the last few pages being entirely French.It's a children's book.
The language is simple, especially the French that the main characters, even the adults, say.
However, for a children's book, I did think the plot was fair.
It's similar to a book I'd write if I had to write a children's book introducing them to French, so that's why I rated it as a four.
I read this book way back in fifth or sixth grade. It was very charming, and I fell in love with the story about John and the adventures he had while staying with his uncle, or 'oncle' in French, in the village of St. Charmant for the summer. I enjoyed learning French at the same time as reading it, and was the main reason why I chose to learn French for my foreign language in eighth grade rather than Spanish or German, since I wanted to learn how to actually pronounce all those words in the book.
This is another book that I got from a book order 21 years ago but didn't read. And now I have. A Newberry Honor Book written in 1946, this book has a few things going for it: adventure in postwar France written when the war was still so fresh in everyone's minds (and yet not as understood through the lens of history), mini French lessons in each chapter, and few moments of beautiful imagery. None of those things would have appealed to me if I had read it as a 9 year old.
I saw this book mentioned somewhere because of its gentle introduction to French. It did provide that and also an excellent growing-up story set in post-war France. The last few pages are written in French and give the reader a chance to practice the French that has been gradually introduced to them in the story. It was suspenseful and heart-warming, A true adventure book and as the photo below shows, the book won a Newberry Honor award in 1947.
A charming story about a 13-year-old boy who has to accompany his parents to France in the aftermath of WWII, and goes there kicking and screaming (quite literally) - but later gets swept up in a series of quite exciting adventures that keep him thoroughly occupied - including the adventure of mastering the French language!I don't know how Fisher manages to do it but there are both truly sinister parts to the book as well as funny scenes, which made me laugh out loud.
An exciting way to expose your young reader to French language. The reader picks up French through a young American boy's adventure with his uncle in rural post WWII France, and by the end, the reluctant protagonist and the reader have learned enough French to read several pages of the boy's story written in French.
I read this book when I was a kid and remember loving it. For some reason I was reminded of it recently so decided to reminisce. As charming and fun as I remembered! Not quite as much French as I thought (in my memory the book slowly transitioned until it was completely in French, which was not how it went at all) but still a pretty cool way to teach some basic of the language.
A very clever book! The main character gradually learns French throughout the book (and shares what he learns with the reader) and finally writes a simple story in French. Reading and understanding the last few pages, in a language I knew very little of before I started the book, was very cool, even if the language used is very simple. A children's book I would definitely recommend.
Post-WWII mystery set in rural France. An American boy with a hurt leg spends time in a small village with his Uncle, whose dream is to build and fly an airplane. The book is cleverly written, with French words inserted and explained, that by the end the reader can read very basic French
A great story about a little boy who learns to walk, speak French and catch German spies all in one summer! What I loved about this story is that it gradually taught French vocabulary to the reader as well as to Jean Littlehorn.
I so enjoyed this book! Sometimes the narrator is a little clueless, just like any 13-year-old boy, but it was a fun read.See my review at http://www.eatreadandbemommy.com/2014...
This is a perfect read for anyone who is tackling the French language. At first, a few well-known French words (merci, bonjour) are mixed in with the English, but as Johnny learns the language, so too does the reader. (I should add that I enjoyed the story.)
They say you can't outgrow a good children's book and I found that to be ture in this case. This was recommended as a good read for beginning french students and that's certainly true but I found myself enjoying the story as well. I'll be saving this to read to the kids in a few years.
