https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/7707.Pygmalion_My_Fair_Lady
I absolutely love My Fair Lady!
This play is based off of that, where Higgins sculpts Eliza into a creature with beautiful speech, and falls in love with his creation.
It's interesting to see the contrasts between the play and the adaption, but I like both endings (they're different).
There is a strong emphasis on phonetics and speech.
I learned something very important from Eliza, that "the difference between a lady and a flower girl is not how she behaves, but how she's treated."
در واقع دو و نیم!از اون معدود کتابایی که به خاطر موضوع خاصش(گویش های زبان انگلیسی) فیلمش گویا تر از کتاب باید باشه.شاید هم ترجمه ضعیف بود!
Henry higgins is a brilliant character, i love how he is depicted but always hated the way that he treated eliza dolittle.i thought the story was at some points witty, i especially love the times eliza makes a mockery of henry higgins!on a musical note, i grew up watching my fair lady with my wonderful grandma who gave me my love of musicals!
I used to sing along lol.i remember a few years ago watching confessions of a teenage drama queen, which is also based on the book by dyan sheldon!
SOOOOOOOOO much better than the movie My Fair Lady even though Audrey Hepburn is always stunning and it was directed by Uncle George, and the songs really are fantastic.I LOVE that she ends up with (spoiler alert)) Freddy instead of that misogynistic knucklehead (i'm being kind and gentle with my words) Rex Harrison, I mean Henry Higgins. and she gets to run a flower-shop - VERY COOL!
As an avid fan of the movie My Fair Lady with Audrey Hepburn and Rex Harrison, I was extremely excited to hear that this play is what the movie was based off.Set in the early 1900's under Edwardian rule, this play is about a teacher of phonetics, the science of speech, and Eliza Doolittle a poor flower girl trying to get by on the little amount of money she makes.
I liked this more than I expected. It was a sweet and realistic romance to me, so I wasn't at all disappointed with the ending. In fact, I loved the ending. Maybe it was because Shaw didn't really push the Eliza/Higgins pairing. I couldn't exactly tell if either of them had romantic feelings for the other. It was comical and enjoyable, always a good combination for a book/play. I plan to read My Fair Lady soon afterwards, but right now, other things are occupying my time. :(
I have seen the movie version of My Fair Lady, so Audrey Hepburn's accent was in my head through the entire first act. I gained a lot more appreciation for the story from reading Pygmalion. I discovered that Shaw makes witty, philosophical remarks on society, reminding me of Oscar Wilde, whom I adore. The stage directions add depth to the character's unseen emotions and watching Eliza's development was truly enjoyable. I need to go read more Shaw.
I LOVEDDD THIS PLAY! It was so funny & witty, & the undertones were on point. Just amazing! Best play i've read so far.
The story of Professor Henry Higgins teaching and molding the down on her luck flower girl, Eliza Doolittle, into a “lady” has been done countless times (Pretty Women and My Fair Lady probably being two of the most famous examples), but Shaw’s original play still holds something unique and special.Despite the story that is funny and endearing on the surface, Shaw utilizes his play to attack social hierarchies and the very idea of status.
In fact, in Shaw’s original work Eliza doesn’t end up with Higgins at all.That said, the play’s deeper meanings and critiques are hidden under witty banter that leaves them feeling a little less daunting (I found one of my new favorite insults a la’ Henry Higgins- “you draggle-tailed guttersnipe”).
I admire Eliza for knowing herself well enough to go her own way at the end of the play.
Good for her that she left that awful Higgins behind!
Now, I have never seen My Fair Lady, so I have no idea how it differs from the play.
I can't say that I liked the "My Fair Lady" play all that much because it was a somewhat romanticized version of Pygmalion.
I don't think the raw ending of Pygmalion needed to be changed.
I like the thought of Eliza leaving Higgins and never looking back.
Am I the only person appalled by this story? The callous attitude of the men? The fact that everyone says, “Men!” with the air of, “They can’t help themselves.” Henry calls her a slut, hussy, gutter snipe, threatens violence and refers to domestic violence with such an pff-handed manner....Yes, it is a product of its time. And should be left there, or updated - if the story and take characters can really a and the test of time.
Great story that really plays with the idea of class, upbringing, and gender. For those who don't know, both Pygmalion and My Fair Lady are essentially the same thing. One's a play and the other is a musical. There are also slight plot differences. A great read and a classic of modern theater.
You finish this play and in your mind still spins the question what is the relationship like between Professor Higgins and his made-up girl? It is a masterpiece for Bernard Shaw that inspires a lot of writers to have such a relationship on the stage or in filmsI’ve liked it and it is a proof how a person can change someone’s life.
Phenomenal and great! Memorable quotes from both the play and the musical. The songs on My Fair Lady were incredible! The play itself was enjoyable and had some interesting characters. Great read, I can't believe my senior year self didn't care for it in high school
Since it's in script form it was a bit harder to follow. I knew the story however so it was interesting to see how it "played" out :)
I enjoyed it but knowing the first story made the second one extremely repetitive.
It was great.
I enjoyed reading this after we saw My Fair Lady at the Lincoln Center. The introduction and various notes were interesting.
In a way - thought provoking! Enjoyable little read!
They were both really good, but it's quite astonishing that two plays with nearly the same script can have such drastically different endings with regard to the primary romantic relationships.Before I read Pygmalion, I thought that My Fair Lady was probably a very loose adaption of it, but I was surprised to find out that the two scripts are nearly identical.
A large percent of the dialogue in My Fair Lady is just copied and pasted from Pygmalion.So what, you may ask, could possibly make the endings so different if close to the entire musical is copied and pasted?
In Pygmalion however, she ends up marrying Freddy Eynsford-Hill, the man who's been chasing after her since they met.
Here at the end there is a very well written epilogue that explains why the professor does not propose to any woman or have any romantic affair with any woman (and certainly with no man either) - not as a sickness on his part, but as a matter of evolution, and he is very evolved indeed.
Men like the professor could devote their time and energy to their prefered pusuits.
He does end up baffled and quite unable to escape Elizabeth Dolittle though.
(I know Julie Andrews should have been Eliza, but that's not how it turned out, and I love Audrey, so there.) I love classics, and I love My Fair Lady, so I thought I might as well give this book a try.
Not much of a surprise, since I've seen the movie thousands of times, but the familiarity of it made reading that much more enjoyable.
I think the biggest difference between the play and the movie is the fact that Henry Higgins is a total jerkface in the original.
The character in the original play is definitely flawed.
I would definitely recommend reading it, if you get a chance.
I'm not exactly a big fan of reading plays.
But Pygmalion and My Fair Lady was different.
I actually enjoyed reading the story, and seeing how it differs in each play I found exciting.
If you're going to read a play, this is definitely the one to do it, though, My Fair Lady is best if you know the music to the songs, because it just isn't as fun to read the words as it is to sing them in your head.
a wonderful story.
The makes of the musical really did a fantastic job of not messing around too much with the original play.
I did kind of cheat and just watched the musical movie instead of reading the script but it's pretty much the same.
It's really funny though because I saw Julie Andrews was supposed to play Eliza in the movie as she originated the role on Broadway but passed it up due to Mary Poppins so Audrey Hepburn got the part but Julie beat her out for the Academy Award ;) that being said Hepburn still did a fantastic job and I would have killed to see Rex Harrison play this role on the stage.
It was interesting to read Pygmalion side-by-side with My Fair Lady. What interested me more (and disappointed me that it wasn't included) was the reference to Shaw writing a follow-up to Pygmalion where Eliza ends up with Freddy. I would have like to compare since I never did like Eliza going back to Higgins in My Fair Lady--he never deserved it. I'm not sure Freddy would have either though. It was definitely interesting to compare. I'll have to see if I can find the follow-up that Shaw wrote.
Okay I grew up watching and loving My Fair Lady. When I finally read Pygmalion I was pleasantly surprised to find that I loved it as well. Not as literal an original text as some plays that are turned into musicals but very true to the core value of My Fair Lady. When you take someone and tell them that what they are is wrong and train them to be something that you say is right, what world do they exist in? She could walk and talk like a lady...but underneath it all she was just the flower girl.
Constantly had Audrey Hepburn in my head as I read, but that only made this play all the more enjoyable. Higgins voices in is cold and wonderful manner so much that I would like to! I think I will have my seniors read it. They being Liza and myself Higgins... I may not care what happens to them in the end, but they will leave my tutelage with an increased vocabulary and a grasp on how to use words.
My Homeschool drama group is performing My Fair Lady. I play Mrs. Eynsford-Hill and some other minor parts.It was interesting to read both plays alongside each other. One thing that became clear while reading Pygmalion is that Higgins is really not a nice guy. In the MFL movie he somehow seems kind of charming; but in the play his abusive and self-centered nature is much more obvious. The ending is a bit hopeless and depressing.
An oldie and a goodie. "The rain in spain falls mainly on the plain" I can't get those words outta my head, even though I might have swallowed a marble or two in getting it right. Shaw's impeccable wit and wisdom shines through this work, as does his knowledge of Linguistics. I wish I had Professor Higgins as my teacher.
I atcually liked it. It was fun to read even though I don't think it has anything to deal with the roman myth. I hated the ending! I mean seriosly she just leaves and never comes back because she runs off and marrys Freddy. Freddy was only in the play for what? Five Minutes and they get married! Ugh! Overall I liked it.
