https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/3882.Rachael_Ray_365
I personally don't like her shows at all.
Her personality just bothers me plain and simple.
However, I had heard fantastic comments about her recipes...
I figured I would get one of her books at the library and try her recipes...
I opened the book only to read "EVOO"...
I can't tolerate when she says it on TV and can't stand it on paper either.
I ended up not trig any recipes as realistically, there was no way to complete them in 30 minutes without chopping a finger off or spending my monthly grocery budget on ingredients I'll never use again...
Some of these recipes are really good. I gave this book a 3 because of the ridiculous amounts of spices, expensive cheeses, and random crap you need to buy for each recipe, though. Seriously, who wants to spend $50 on saffron?
This is a good way to use left overs and make them something new for families who don't eat left overs (i know there are a few my family being one of them!) I enjoyed reading the recipes and seeing different ways to cook things.
For those who like seeing what the meal would look like completed, there are no pictures in this cookbook showing what it would look like.
I can't do that with this cookbook.I did enjoy the book and will be using it for future meals, but I don't see using it every single day for a year.
I'm not a vegetarian, but Sweet Baby Jesus, so much meat.30 minute meals?
Yes, if that is your personal situation, 30 minutes easy.
However, if you are a perfectly normal mortal human trying to make a tasty meal, most of these recipes are going to be closer to an hour.
Some even more.Exactly how much food does she think goes into one serving?
An 11 X 9 casserole dish filled to overflowing with Shepard's pie is not four servings.
If it is four servings in your house, you eat too much.Ultimately the recipes are overly complex and rely too much on starches and meats.
Although each recipe tends to have a list with loads of ingredients, I think each of the ingredients contributes to the flavor of the dish.
It's not most economical for some to buy a jar of smoked paprika to never use it again, but as a person who likes to cook, I don't mind the occasional investment as I incorporate those particular ingredients in other dishes/recipes that I make.
30 minutes in the title refers to cook time and does not include preparation time (chopping/boiling water/etc.) Overall, I think this is a good cookbook.
It could introduce new (and old) cooks to ingredients they haven't tried before.
Only for fans of 30-Minute Meals. If you appreciate the way she suggests, rather than dictates, you'll enjoy this book. The recipes are fairly basic in terms of taste. It's not haute cuisine, but most people will find these recipes to be very serviceable.
Great recipes cant wait to get the next cookbook.
A 326 page book of Rachel’s recipes. Heavy on Mediterranean and international recipes, it has only a few pictures and most recipes are variations on other recipes, some traditional or well known, and some the author’s own twist on things. The book includes an index of recipes.
This didn't work well for me, the idea being having a master recipe, with adapted recipes listed nearby.
The adapted recipes required you to go back and forth to the main recipe, confusing.
She tells you what to Omit, Swap, and Add. I get her intent, but I can't imagine it is as easy as she thinks to try to find where to swap in the main recipe.Then, her cuteness just got to me, the words "delish", "yummo", the constant abbreviations, "B,L,D!
What's the point of using abbreviations if you are going to spell it out every time?Didn't find any recipes I wanted to try.....not even "Boo-sotto".
I really like this cookbook. It's got great, super-tasty recipes, and they're diverse enough that it's fun to cook your way through.That said, few of these took me less than 30 minutes to make (more like an hour) and the ingredients for most are expensive enough that it's just not feasible to actually make one of these every night for a year.But if you just want to make one every couple of weeks...highly recommend it. (especially the cumin and lime pork tenderloin)
There are, but a handful of recipes in this book that I will be willing to try. I found this extremely meat and pork heavy, which isn't my deal since I'm not big on either. I am sure this book will appeal to people that have lots of time to cook througout the course of a week. I give her an A for effort, but not much more than that.
As of this writing, I have documented trying not quite 300 of these recipes over the course of ten years. Of those there have only been less than a dozen duds. The rest were good, great or excellent. Most take me about an hour, give or take fifteen minutes.This collection seems the most diverse of her books that I've perused: some romantic evening dishes, some down home cooking, some messy sports-watching food.
Originally, I gave this book 2 stars. While I go to Rachael's book for ideas, it's been at least a year since I really followed her recipes. However, upon reflection, I realized that is her point. Her books serve as guides for putting a little variety on your table. Additionally, I used her book extensively when I was first learning to cook. I wasn't confident in my decisions, and her book of simple recipes gave me a basis to work from.
If you could see this book on my kitchen counter, you'd know that it is well worth your money. The pages are dog eared and splattered with all manner of olive oil, egg drippings, soy sauce, ketchup .... It is constantly in front of me for recipe ideas and easy and wonderful ways to feed people. I highly recommend it.
Although I think Racheal is cute as can be, with a fabulous personality, I am not a huge fan of her recipes. Not having been schooled in cooking terminology or form, I don't always know what to do with some of the ingredients she uses, or where to find them! Would have expected some simpler recipes from the 30-minute wonder cook.
I love RR. This book was what got me started on her cookbooks. I've prepared every meal from this book (minus anything with lamb) & 99% of them where fantastic. So recipes are tedious with all the many ingredients but I thoroughly enjoy cooking so I didn't mind.
i love this cookbook. ive made many many recipes out of it. they are all easy, and easily completed in 30 mins or less in some cases. im no chef but if i can make a recipe in 30 mins then most other people should be able to. i recommend this to lots of people and have also given it as a gift.
I use this book as a reference. If I can substitute a cheaper "well made" component, I do so. Good premade pesto would cause less stress and save money in the pesto chicken recipe which is one of my faves.
I really enjoyed this. I like that there are many recipes that are familiar but have a twist. The format is great too, I will go back to the the date to get an idea for dinner. The accompanying beverage book is great too. We are trying a new cocktail every week or so.
Though not the most high class of cookbooks, I find myself reaching for this one over and over when I need a quick weeknight dinner with ingredients I have on hand. For this reason, Rachael has earned her spot on my cooking shelf next to Julia, Jacques, Ina, and Mark.
For when I'm feeling fancy but not too fancy. I mostly use this book to liven up meals that are already part of my regular rotation -like using sheep milk cheese to top a hamburger instead of the usual cheddar.
I like Rachael Ray's Food Network show just fine, so this review doesn't come from any anti-Rachael sentiments, but...I read through all 365 recipes and only found one that I wanted to make. And it turned out pretty good, but 1/365 = yikes.
Love me some Rachael Ray and good food, but each recipe calls for such specific ingredients that's it's difficult to just throw a meal together without planning a week in advance. Yummy results though!
Dave got this for me out of the blue one day and I use it all the time. Some recipes are things I wouldn't ever make, but there are enough great recipes that make this a trusted go-to cookbook.
Rachel is Simple and Retro! Watch her TV Cooking Show Often with Great Results!
We use this one all the time.
Haven't tried one from here that didn't turn out just right.
A cookbook with no pictures! Booooo!
Love her recipes, hate listening to her talk - books are the best of both worlds. Really good recipes, that are quick, fun and easy to do.
If You Are Looking For A Cookbook That Offers Quick, But Unique & Tasty Meals, This Is The One!
