https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/420278.The_Complete_Poems_1927_1979
Fairly remunerated she was not by my humble Bristol Community College, where she gave readings three years in a row in the late 70s, when she'd come back from Brazil--and when her longtime Brazilian friend committed suicide.
Well, I did not know enough to learn much from her when I met her, though I learned lots every time she read at my college, but I can boast this: I cleaned a fish--a Bluefish-- for the author of The Fish, for her and her friends including Alice.
Oblique, bizarre, and brilliantly crafted, Bishop's poems offer slanted perspectives on a wide scope of subjects: nature, national history, endurance, travel, injustice, loss.
The poet's work increases in complexity and ambition with each collection, though it defies easy categorization from the start.
Bishop wrote in a distinctive style so unlike that of the most famous poets of her generation.
Her poems care neither for emotional revelation nor experiments in syntax; instead, they quietly revel in playing with rhetoric and sound, mostly within the boundaries of conventional forms.
There's nothing else quite like Bishop's poetry in English, making The Complete Poems worth reading at least once.
I did enjoy One Art: One ArtThe art of losing isn't hard to master;so many things seem filled with the intentto be lost that their loss is no disaster.Lose something every day.
Accept the flusterof lost door keys, the hour badly spent.The art of losing isn't hard to master.Then practice losing farther, losing faster:places, and names, and where it was you meantto travel.
my last, ornext-to-last, of three loved houses went.The art of losing isn't hard to master.I lost two cities, lovely ones.
It's evidentthe art of losing's not too hard to masterthough it may look like (Write it!) like disaster.
The carefully-wrought imagery of an American Master, brimming with controlled emotion:IMAGINARY ICEBERGSWe'd rather have the iceberg than the ship,although it meant the end of travel.Although it stood stock-still like cloudy rockand all the sea were moving marble.***Icebergs behoove the soul(both being self-made from elements least visible)to see them so: fleshed, fair, erected indivisible.

Think of the long trip home.Should we have stayed at home and thought of here?That very thought has occurred to me on occasion. This collection was a slow start. The images were dense, looped and anchored in rocky soil. There was a trace of fear upon entry: a hesitation. Perhaps there was a benefit; I know nothing about Bishop’s biography, though I’m guessing there were extensive travels to Brazil. It was Teju Cole who pointed the way. He has proved a reliable curator.
The brown enormous odor he lived bywas too close, with its breathing and thick hair,for him to judge.
The floor was rotten; the stywas plastered halfway up with glass-smooth dung.Light-lashed, self-righteous, above moving snouts,the pigs' eyes followed him, a cheerful stare--even to the sow that always ate her young--till, sickening, he leaned to scratch her head.But sometimes mornings after drinking bouts(he hid the pints behind the two-by-fours),the sunrise glazed the barnyard mud with redthe burning puddles seemed to reassure.And then he thought he almost might endurehis exile yet another year or more.But evenings the first star came to warn.The farmer whom he worked for came at darkto shut the cows and horses in the barnbeneath their overhanging clouds of hay,with pitchforks, faint forked lightnings, catching light,safe and companionable as in the Ark.The pigs stuck out their little feet and snored.The lantern--like the sun, going away--laid on the mud a pacing aureole.Carrying a bucket along a slimy board,he felt the bats' uncertain staggering flight,his shuddering insights, beyond his control,touching him.
Io ho delle serie resistenze riguardo al periodo ittico di Elizabeth Bishop. Non so: “aria che sa di merluzzo” e raschiare scaglie e triglie, tovaglie e stoviglie (da pesce, presumibilmente).Anche riguardo alla sua fase ornitologica sono ritrosissima. Un po’ come mi capita con il periodo botanico di Marianne Moore, per dire. Niente. Rivoglio i pesci e i fiori di Sexton, Plath, Rich, Hacker. Con tutte le spine.
into that world invertedwhere left is always right,where the shadows are really the body,where we stay awake all night,where the heavens are shallow as the seais now deep, and you love me.- InsomniaFrom my favorite poem
In the May 14, 2009 issue of The London Review of Books, Colm Tóibín writes that in the poems of Elizabeth Bishop, "Description was a desperate way of avoiding self-description; looking at the world was a way of looking out from the self." He goes on to say that "The fact that the world was there was both enough and far too little for Bishop.
4,5 stars. I wrote about this book here: Questions of displacement - http://wp.me/p79SOn-BT #readwomen
Better with every reading.
Elizabeth, I liked some of your poems, found some of them beautiful, or touching or delicately structured.
Not especially profound, but you don't strike me as having invested much in the profound, rather the fleeting, the unintended and the suddenly honest.
You also did not speak often of love, except perhaps in your manuscript poems, which you hid and which did not escape until after your death.
So much for the love poems.
So thank you for sharing your poetry, because I read it all-- within the space of 24 hours or so and I have learned (as least) one important thing: good poems are hard to come by, even from oneself.
Perhaps especially so.
"i lost two cities, lovely ones. and, vaster, some realms i owned, two rivers, a continent. i miss them, but it wasn't a disaster.- even losing you (the joking voice, a gesture i love) i shan't have lied. it's evident the art of losing's not too hard to master though it may look like (write it!) like disaster"
Bishop forces me to slow down and savor -- I don't always want to do that but when I do the rewards are great.
To be fair I've only read a handful of poems but I've really enjoyed them, Bishop is exquisitely evocative and poetic without being puzzling.
This is my favorite poetry I've read in a long time.
Somewhere in contention for my actual favorite, though I guess "The Waste Land" feels pretty unshakeable at the top slot there.
It's not like I loved each and every poem here but there were enough great ones for this to get 5 stars for sure.I mean look I'm a pretty easy grader on Goodreads but s0metimes I've been tempted to go back and restrict 5 star ratings to only the true 10/10 classics (I tend to round up 9/10 books to 5 stars).
Note I'll never actually do this cause I don't wanna go back and re-rate hundreds of books.
Nearly all of these poems are remarkable in some way. Bishop deftly handles fixed forms, such as the sonnet and the sestina, and her villanelle "One Art" has been lingering in my mind for awhile. Her verses in open form are well chiseled sculptures. She can shift her creative focus from the quotidian to the marvelous and leave the reader the better for it.Some more favorites include "The Hanging of the Mouse" and "Roosters".Also notable are her translations of other poets, including "The Table" and "Don't Kill Yourself" by Carlos Drummond de Andrade.
In the first appendix to this has all of Bishop's manuscripts and unpublished poems, and like T.S. Eliot's unfinished poems in his Complete Poems put out by Faber and Faber, I must admit I find them interesting as a writer - seeing what better writers and poets have written and then rejected.
But as a reader and admirer of Bishop, like the unfinished poems of Eliot, I don't find them as interesting somehow.
She used free verse where he used formal verse, and as the back of the book states, a lot of Bishop's poems are about Order trying and failing to control Disorder, and that has influenced (I'm sure) Bishop's use of free verse.
There’s no denying Elizabeth Bishop’s artistry.
Her poems are polished to a blinding shine, which may be my problem with them.
It wasn’t until I was trying to wake up my five-year-old daughter earlier this week, and I happened to have this book in my hand, that I found an entry point.
I told my daughter I was going to read her poetry until she got out of bed.
She didn’t move and, true to my word, I recited some of Bishop’s poems.
Ada, my daughter, screamed.
So, there’s a pragmatic side to the poems that I’d recommend to any struggling parent.
Elizabeth Bishop - One ArtThe art of losing isn't hard to master;so many things seem filled with the intentto be lost that their loss is no disaster.Lose something every day.
Accept the flusterof lost door keys, the hour badly spent.The art of losing isn't hard to master.Then practice losing farther, losing faster:places, and names, and where it was you meant to travel.
my last, ornext-to-last, of three loved houses went.The art of losing isn't hard to master.I lost two cities, lovely ones.
It's evidentthe art of losing's not too hard to masterthough it may look like (Write it!) like disaster.
This book should really just be on my "currently-reading" list and remain there permanently. I have never fallen for a poet so quickly and fully. I love her choice of words, her diversity in subject matter, her voice comes through so clearly to me. I have had a harder time with some of the poems that are centered around people or places in Brazil. In general, I like that her poems are not overly cryptic; its pretty easy to know what she's talking about.
Elizabeth Bishop is one of the top five poets writing in English of the 20th C. She writes poems of such simplicity and beauty, about her hard childhood in Nova Scotia, and her time in Brazil with her girlfriend, which ended in suicide and heartbreak. The emotion in the poems is always controlled by perfect language and images that retain their freshness. Some of my favorite poems are "First Death in Nova Scotia", "At the Fish-houses", "Cape Breton", "One Art", and "Manuelzinho"
I would tattoo Sestina to my forehead if I was drunk enough. Spectacular.
Then that dew begins to fall, roll down and fall, Maybe it's not tears at all.
That is not a tearful sound, beating, beating on the ground.
see it taking root like weeds, faster, faster than the weeds, all the shining seeds take root, conspiring root, and what curious flower or fruit will grow from that conspiring root?
In that dark and dreary place each seed grows into a face.
Like an army in a dream the faces seem, darker, darker, like a dream.
I have not looked at these poems in years and it was a pleasure to revisit them. My life experiences have surely accumulated and allow me to feel and see her work in a new light! Bishop writes of so many things in so many forms, ever observant and thoughtful! I love One Art on losing things, I love Visits to St. Elizabeths that accumulates along the way, I love her short and long poems that you really have to stick with to the end. A lovely revisit!
Not too bad. I was interested enough in the poems to finish the book, even though I don't really remember any in particular. Glad it wasn't all just rhyming couplets or sonnets. There's quite a bit of variety, actually. I might take up some tome of poetry in the future for leisurely reading.
I got this book when I heard One Art read out loud on the Hidden Brain. It’s still my favorite, but I found several other gems as well.
maybe favorite ever ?
Then I came across the classic poem, "Visits to St. Elizabeths" which I had read before, not realizing it was Bishop.
But I can see that Bishop tells you everything but the one thing you need to know to make things make sense.For instance, about a third of the poems in the collection are about Brazil, but it wasn't until I read a bit about her online that I learned that she lived in Brazil for 15 years, having visited on a 2 week trip, falling in love with a woman architect, and staying on.
