https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/25175.The_Anodyne_Necklace
It eventually becomes apparent that everything is tied to the theft of priceless emeralds from Lord Kennington a year earlier.
Does the game have anything to do with the hiding place of the emeralds?This is one of the more humorous Jury & Plant mysteries and is full of amusing characters.
For example, Polly Praed: "A moderately successful mystery-story writer, she often, when her plots came unglued, would divert herself by practicing various modes and styles of murder on the Bodenheims, singly or together.
Resourceful, smart, and downright scary, she is my favorite character in the book after Polly Praed.
This third in the Grimes' Richard Jury series has all the hallmarks of her storytelling.
Stereotypical characters of village life, an oddly named pub where suspects and witnesses alike hang out, a couple of murders that seem unconnected, a precocious child who helps out with the solve, Scotland Yard detective Jury, his aristocrat pal Melrose Plant, some shuttling back and forth between the village and London, lots of red herrings and a heap of humor.
Speaking of listening, Steve West is the perfect voice of Richard Jury.
I did enjoy reading this, but not as much as some of the other Richard Jury mysteries.
Also, the murderer reveal made sense in those books.
One of my favorite characters in the series, Melrose Plant, was portrayed as kind of an insecure loser, which isn't his personality at all in the other books.
I did enjoy the interactions between Melrose Plant and his nemesis in this particular book, ten year old Emily Louise Perk.
I also enjoyed Richard Jury's ventures into the dungeons and dragons bar and Jury's interactions with the Cripps family.
Pleasant, easy, comfy reading.
I'm really liking this series more and more. Ms. Grimes must have had so much fun creating these characters-they were quite unique-and she always seems to have precocious children as a foil to help solve the mystery! I was blindsided by the culprit of the murders-very well done!
Ok. So this is not serious literature. Although there it is certainly serious about killing people off. It's engaging, amusing and entertaining. There are some great character studies and cariactures. Definitely my new fun series.
Whether Martha Grimes intended it or not, Emily Louise steals the story away from Jury and Plant.
It turns out to be quite important to our perception of Jury.And, in the vein of perceiving character traits, Grimes gives us new insight into Wiggins.
And then Grimes expands Wiggins from there, just a bit, but a very noticeable bit.In the end, we have a third novel in a series that is neither formulaic nor does it follow any pattern from the previous entries.
Why, oh why, did I wait so long to start reading Martha Grimes?
This is my favorite so far of the first four I've read.
Amusing characters, quaint village setting, and an intriguing puzzle all add up to a great read.
I particularly liked the mystery writer Polly Praed who spends her time planning the individual murders of a particularly annoying family of village gentry, the Bodenheims, and then decides they should just kill each other off in her book.
Ms. Grimes writes children particularly well and this mystery is no exception.
Martha Grimes has become one of my favorite mystery writers.
The minutiae of village life and the seclusion, the tea shop and the pub and the manor house and the village fête, they all work well, and Melrose Plant being extorted by a ten-year-old at every turn is brilliant.
And it all works so well that any time we're dragged back to London, the spell is broken.
I understand I'm supposed to appreciate the contrast between twee village life and the grime of the East End, but that tension doesn't hold when the East End bits feel so ragged and thin in comparison to the amount of care that gets lavished on all the village bits.
Another great adventure with Jury and Plant in your typical, stereotype British village. Great, quirky characters, a fete, a precocious child, and some murders make for an entertaining read. I do favor Plant over Jury!
Wry, British, and complex. It's Martha Grimes.
I read this series years ago, always buying them until the author changed her style and I couldn't like them anymore.
This is the earliest book in the series that was available through my library when I decided to revisit them.I enjoyed this, it was a good standard small-town British mystery.
There are several strands of crime than end up being related, and it's highly unlikely anyone will guess the culprit.
The secondary characters are especially well done, from Emily to Polly Praed and Jenny Kennington, who both show up in later books, I believe.
For fans of clean mysteries the early books in this series are excellent.
So I have come late in life to Martha Grimes and her Richard Jury mysteries -- but delightedly! Wanted to start with the very first book but my library didn't have it. Decided to at least try out the series with the earliest available, and was so very glad I did. (Of course now I want to find and read the first two before getting too much farther down the path.)
An entertaining little read, with English villages, funny characters - I loved re-reading it :)
I got to page 31 and had to put it away. It was not for me. I could not get into the book at all. It could not hold my attention.
Reread. A gripping murder mystery with a fine balance of humour and sadness. It was great to revisit the characters of Richard Jury, Melrose Plant and Constable Wiggins.
Melrose Plant still has to abide his aunt and the reader is just waiting for the day that he springs across the table and throttles her because we would all have done it half way through the first book in the series and no court would have convicted us had they met her!
Both Jury and Plant are wonderful interesting characters we learn a bit more of with each passing story and are enjoyable both separate and apart.
These stories are just a pleasure to read and I hope I continue to feel this way for a while since there are about 25 books in the series.
Along the way we meet a murder mystery writer, a family who thinks they are better than everyone else, two spinster sisters and a precocious ten-year-old named Emily Louise Perk (does Grimes put a precocious basically-orphaned child in every story she writes?).
What is happening in this sleepy village?(view spoiler)[Obviously it ends up that Katie and the fingerless corpse are connected.
Katie was hit because she found a map (NOT related to the Wizards and Warlocks game played at the local pub) but that leads to the necklace stolen a year ago by a corrupt secretary named Trevor Tree.
Another installment of the Richard Jury series.
I would give The Anodyne Necklace a rating of 4.5 stars.
Like The Old Fox Deceiv’d, The Anodyne Necklace had a clever, but neglected, child in the cast of characters.
It will be interesting to see if this becomes a pattern in the Richard Jury series.
There were some truly humorous characters in this story, along with Melrose Plant and Mr. Wiggins.
This series started in 1981 & it’s interesting to see how many people smoke cigarettes in Martha Grimes books.
In addition, people light up anywhere they are, whether it’s in an office, a hotel room, etc.
3 in the New Scotland Yard Detective Superintendent Richard Jury mystery series.
Newly promoted to superintendent, Jury is assigned to muder in a small town 40 miles from London.
Jury connects this murder to an assualt on 16 year old from this sametown in a London subway station and an unsolved jewlery a year ago in the same town.
Again working with Sergeant Wiggins and Jury!s friend Melrose Plant, Jury bringsthemystery to an unexpected conclusion.The story is made more interesting with its assortment of supporting chacters both in the town and near the London subway station.
More of a 3 1/2 but very enjoyable. I am definitely a Richard Jury/Melrose Plant fan. They are likable and intelligent with just enough back story to make them interesting but it doesn't bog down the story line. The secondary characters are great. Martha Grimes does a great job at writing a story set in contemporary times (when it was written) but it has the feel of a 19th century England. I kept forgetting the year (IDK I think written in the 1980s). Fun characters-good mystery-great atmosphere. I'll be looking for the next one.
2.8 starsI picked out these books just because of the attractive titles - promised a good ol' English whodunnit spiced with comedy.Unfortunately, i am now finding them to be quite uninteresting and full of useless ramblings.Plant and Jury never sit well with me - there is hardly any warmth between them or any other character. The mystery is always incredible and the conclusion always strangely a let down and unsatisfying. Supposed to be funny - there were only perhaps a couple of sentences that made me smirk. will probably give up now.
I am totally hooked on Richard Jury and am starting to read my way to the most current book. There is a good mystery, good characters, and some humor in each story. It is light/fast reading, but sometimes it's good to get a break from the more complicated stories. Reading Martha Grimes puts me in mind of the style of Agatha Christie. In fact, the promo touts her to be the next Christie or Sayers. Recommend.
There was a lot of profanity in this story, way more than in the previous two, which I did not like at all. I am unaccustomed to reading it and hearing it. I will read the next one to see if it continues or escalates. If so, then I will be disappointed to have to stop reading the series because the characters and setting are decent and interesting.
Despite some of the aspects of the murders and attempted murder, some of the characters are the wackiest I've seen in a while! Of course there are dastardly ones, and the two coppers along with some of their friends, but it's the locals who will have you laughing yourself silly. Very enjoyable! Steve West narrates it all without cracking up.
Chief Inspector Richard Jury has finally been promoted to Superintendent at the New Scotland Yard, but not much else has changed is his personal or professional life. Just about to dash out the door for a brief vacation, Jury answers the ringing telephone only to be assigned to a murder investigation in another of England's rural villages.Another well-told story and great read.
I may be getting the hang of these “English” murder mysteries. I didn’t spot the culprit early on, or even late on, but once revealed the choice seemed right and one that an alert person might have spotted.
This is the 3rd book in Martha Grimes Richard Jury series. I enjoyed it. Grimes is a good mystry writer and I enjoy the English sayings. I have books 1-7 then 13. I don't think you need to read them in any order however.
This was the usual enjoyable mystery with Inspector Jury, Sgt Wiggins, and Melrose Plant in fine form. I know I can count on a good story, lots of intriguing suspects, and a twist. I also like that the titles of the books are actual British pubs.
Not my favourite book of her's but it was still very good. Always fun to read but this one is very character driven...the way the murderer is revealed felt a bit anticlimactic (I found, anyway). Still, it was a good read and I really enjoyed the story.
