https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/14249.Prodigal_Summer
Lots of different subplots that eventually intertwine, includes a love story too. She writes very lyrically, you'll want to savor this one. Nature / animal lovers will appreciate this one too. Something for everyone, this one is probably in my all time top 10 or 15 list.2nd reading: This is not a book to read but a book to feel. It's a book you feel the truth and the rightness of, down deep in your gut.
Half of them would have been surprised to learn that I was a candidate for a full ride scholarship for writing and the other half would have been surprised to learn that they believed pole dancing would be the highest bar I could ever achieve.It's not that I don't love Nature; I do.
Don't want to glaze over while a botanist explains why the green leaf turns red; I just want to savor the magic that it does, and I want to read Robert Frost aloud when it happens.So, my first 4 attempts to read Barbara Kingsolver were rough.
Ok. What gives, Kingsolver?I have adored her work for years, and had this particular book sitting on my shelf for a long time unread.
i'd tried previous times to read it and couldn't "get into it".
i infact enjoyed it more and more as the LONG ASS story went on and on.
i found i only cared about 1 person's story, and didnt care about any of the other co-protagonists.it was a book that was beyond slow, beyond tedious.
you get sad when it's finished.this isnt one of them.i put this book down twice and read other things, then brought it on vacation with me and slowly read it over a month.
I don't want it to end!
:( There's still much life for these characters to lead and I want to be there for it!
The BEAUTIFUL NATURAL WORLD she gives - my kingdom to know so much and be so deeply involved in the real world around me.
I can't wait to meet more and learn about more.
Her scenes are long and involved - no quick hits to make a point but no excess either.
It takes TIME to know the world and is not something you learn in soundbites.
I want to live there.
I want to be these characters and have their problems and flaws.
It is a book to read carefully and slowly and just enjoy.Several different stories run parallel and tie up eventually towards the end of the book.
I found my interest in each story uneven and tended to rush the parts about Garnett Walker because I became tired of his constant, repetitive musings and I wanted to get back to Deanna or Lusa.
For me this loses the book one star.Nevertheless it was a lovely read with some charming characters, very human behaviours and a positive, hopeful ending.
I absolutely loved how the three "separate" stories wove together as the novel progressed, so that in the end it seemed everyone in the small town was tied to everyone else by the glorious web of non-solitariness among us.
(Caution to some readers: While never very graphic and always respectful, there are a few passages that are definitely sex-charged--one of Kingsolver's points is how Nature is so fueled by sex, the desire to procreate--and that humans are also part of this.) ***************************************************************Another of the summer-themed books I'm cramming to read before summer ends!
The conventional tale paired with an aspiring, but unresolved ending, just felt incomplete.Along the same lines, the interweaving of characters and narrative voices is great, but about 3/4 of the way through the book every main character had been connected to every other main character in a way that simply felt over the top and a bit trite.
Like, we get it, it's a small community and these characters needed to have some kind of theme tying them together, but it got a bit silly by the final connection.Despite these flaws, Prodigal Summer was a good read and brought up a lot of interesting ideas and themes.
I think my favorite line of "poetry" from this book is "He made love to me like a farmer!" She then goes on to talk about milking cows and tilling the land while describing their love making.
Ugh. I kept reading just because I had heard such great things about her first book, but I was really disappointed.
I actually returned this book to B&N because I couldn't stand to read the last four chapters and I seriously wanted my money back AND I didn't want any book on my shelf that had a line like "he made love to me like a farmer" in it.
I enjoyed Kingsolver's Poisonwood Bible so much that for some reason I delayed reading this one (does that make sense?).
It reminds me of the romance in "The River Why", another book I will write about here on goodreads (someday).
Coyotes play a prominent role in the book.
It is an eerie sound, almost human.
This is a book that can make you love coyotes and chestnut trees and even our fellow humans (with all of our quirks and failings and missteps along the way).
There are no more Kingsolver titles out there for me to read.
This is my favorite of Barbara Kingsolver's fiction.Three stories weave together into a beautiful story of nature, love, and family.
The three threads begin with "Predators" which follows Deanna, who is a Forest Preserve ranger and lives alone in a small cabin high upon Zebulon Mountain.
She unexpectedly begins a romance with a roaming coyote poacher, although Deanna is working tirelessly to protect a hidden den of coyotes.
The cantankerous relationship between them eventually arrives at mutual understanding and a unique sense of harmony.My favorite character in the book is Lusa, who, for me, is the catalyst for action in the lives of the people she comes in contact with.
This book is hot.It's my favorite Barbara Kingsolver novel.I came away liking coyotes. And grieving the American chestnut.
My first Barbara Kingsolver book.
Every sentence is crafted - which means it's quite a slow read; no skipping through paragraphs like most books.
It has the jewel-like clarity and intensity of Ian McEwan but without the prissy, look-at-me-I'm-so-clever that creeps into his work.
There were clear themes running through the book reflecting Kingsolver's detailed knowledge of biology and farming: evolution, the danger of man destroying any of the earth's creatures because of the knock-on effect, a fantastic exposition on why spraying insecticides on crops makes the problem worse.
I've just gone and made this book sound boring haven't I?
This place would be a dead place."Chrys shrugged "Trees grow back""That's what you think.
This forest took hundreds of years to get like this." & on & on & on!Also a minor point but Deanna was supposed to have really beautiful, but amazingly long hair in the conditions she was living in?
I think a good 50 pages could have been pruned off this book.While one part of the three characters meshing together really surprised me (& was handled beautifully) others felt forced to tie everyone up a neat, tidy bow.Kingsolver writes well and does capture the sour disenchantment of Lusa's disintegrating marriage perfectly.
Reading this is a joyous experience. Other people have written long and thoughtful reviews but I'll just say that I loved its exuberance - a light exuberance, not at all boisterous - and its gentle, often funny, exploration of family and neighbourly 'business'.I returned it to the friend who lent it to me and bought a copy to keep. She had said 'Try this' when I confessed I had never been able to get into The Poisonwood Bible, didn't want to read about missionaries in Africa. Thank you Lisa!
It isn't loaded with heavy issues (Barbara Kingsolver's "Poisonwood Bible" is definitely a heavier chunk o' reading compared to this) but I feel to truly appreciate "Prodigal Summer", one must be in the right mindset.This book takes three stories and alternates chapters with three different points of view.
I love how Kingsolver can describe a tree, a rainstorm, a snake, a bug, a cabin in the woods and each time it's different and beautiful.
The second story/chapter is "Moth Love".
The dialect flows easily, the setting is very real, and the stories all tie up nicely by the end.
But solitude is only a human presumption.” What follows doesn’t disappoint.Three parallel stories unfold of characters quite unalike on the surface and yet connected in deeper ways that resonate profoundly.
It would have been easy – and predictable – to have their stories wind together as the novel progresses.
In the end their paths brush lightly against one another speaking, I think, of the bonds that connect us all but leave us to make our own connections in our own time.Anyone who finds solace in nature will find this novel irresistible.
Kingsolver pays tribute to the natural world while quietly testifying that we can either live in communion with it or contribute to its demise.
Prodigal Summer tells the stories of several different people clustered around a deep valley in Southern Appalachia.
I've read and enjoyed many books with female protaganists, but I felt somewhat excluded from Prodigal Summer.
Instead of appealing to the universality of human emotions, there was almost a sense that Kingsolver was only writing this book for women, and didn't expect or even want men to read it.
Reading Prodigal Summer felt a little like talking to a 14 year old girl who has started thinking about feminism for the first time.
The key themes of the book are ecological/natural: that Spring/Summer are times of active reproduction and are sexually charged in nature; that removing a predator from an ecological system has huge repercussions, often causing the next layer down to devastate the ecology; that indeterminate pesticides often have the effect of boosting the population of the herbivore insects they seek to control (because of their proportionately effect on their carnivore predators); that man is also a natural creature but has largely forgotten or obscured the basic effects of pheromones or of lunar inspired cycles; the importance of re-wilding.
Another book with my review & date read lost in Shelfari import UGH
The Circle of Life In this book author Barbara Kingsolver really takes the liberty within this book to assert her views on the circle of life, nature, the land, plant, animal and human life existing in conjunction to each other. She rolls this philosophy up into the lives of three main characters who live two in a small town and one in the mountains above the town in the Appalachias. Deanna has been living as a forest services ranger for two years and studying the wild life peacefully before Ed
In this book author Barbara Kingsolver really takes the liberty within this book to assert her views on the circle of life, nature, the land, plant, animal and human life existing in conjunction to each other.
The knowledge and research should be worth some positive points but the stories were kind of weak and I was really bored the majority of the book.
I may try other fiction by this author considering I did like two other books of hers and this is the first fail.
I do recommend anyone who has read her other books or those interested to give it a try maybe you will like it.
I really loved this book and think that if anyone loves summer and living things and plants and animals and learning about nature, they will love it too!
She ends up befriending her young niece and nephew (and eventually adopting them when her sister in law becomes ill) and teaching them all sorts of interesting facts about insects and plants and nature.
Through the course of the book, we see Garnett start to open up a bit--at first he's really difficult to understand with his old-man thinking.
The three are connected: Garnett's disowned son is the father of Lusa's young niece and nephew (their grandpa).
Several times in the past couple years I’ve even gone so far as to dig this book off the shelf in the basement where I store all my owned-and-unread books and set it on my nightstand in an attempt to encourage myself to pick it up and start reading.
While I was reading it, I was floored by how much I came to care for the people in the book and how much I didn’t wanted it to end.
Even now, a couple days after finishing it, I’m still sitting here thinking about the characters as though they were real people and imagining how they went on living their lives after the book ended.
This novel, which jumps back and forth through the lives and stories of a few strong characters, really gets to the core of what life is about and how people tend to deal with it.
It is amazingly easy to get attached to the characters in this novel and I wouldn’t be surprised if, while reading this, you, like me, were unable to put it down for hours at a time and dreaded being torn away from it and back to reality.
This is a book I’d recommend reading over a break or during the summer when you have a lot of time to just stretch out on a couch and read it to your heart’s content.
I really enjoyed Prodigal Summer and the three intertwining stories with a good moral to the story and ecological questions throughout - it was my type of language and my first Kingsolver novel read.
An enriching story capturing the essence of the natural beauty of the world.
The characters were full of life, the natural world a motivating crusade and life continued on in its unpredictable and messy way.
Creatures lived and mated and died, they came and went, as surely as summer did.
They would go their own ways of their own accord’
Kingsolver offers the reader swallows like little fighter jets; a pond laminated in gold leaf by the sunset; moths like visible molecules, entirely filling up space with their looping trajectories; and a night in which "the moon's reflection hung dead-center in the pond, a white, trembling promise as old as night."PRODIGAL SUMMER opens with Deanna's musings on the fast-approaching summer and breeding season - "even the air smelled of sexual ecstasy" - while Lusa has never seen "such an oversexed, muggy summer." Even upright, God-fearing Mr. Garnett Walker can't help but admire his cantankerous neighbor's legs even while condemning her wearing of "short pants" as "indecent exposure." The natural environment of Zebulon County has set the scene for a summer of life-changing proportions.
I bought this book at a library sale and was so excited because I just loved The Poisonwood Bible by her; I could not stop talking about it.
But the most irritating thing about the book is that the author came off soapboxey quite often.
The characters she obviously wanted us to think of as heroines were, without exception, worshipers of nature and disparaged any kind of organized religion.
On the other hand, the most despicable of her characters, the most small-minded and snipey, were always big church-goers.
This is a beautiful book to be read slowly and savored.The story takes place over one summer and tells three stories of love.
The language and phrasing is so beautiful that I had to stop periodically and let what I had read sink in.
It literally took my breath away in so many places.This is not a "beach read".
You need time to absorb all the beauty that Kingsolver gives you.I feel privileged to have been able to read it.
I'd recommend it to anyone who really loves to read and loves language used at its best!
Kingsolver has been a hit or miss author for me.
Then I tried The Bean Trees, which was a hit.
Kingsolver's descriptive environment put me right into the natural, beautiful forest of Appalachia.
Those two characters were a riot in a subtle kind of way and it makes me wish Kingsolver would write more humor because she does it so well.If you're looking for an escape read but with some substance to it, give this one a try.
She really hits on all the senses, and that just pulls me right in to the story as if I'm watching the fireflies in a briar patch on a sweltering summer night in Appalachia.
Ha-cha!The story is a summer in the life of 3 women near a small town in rural Kentucky, told from alternating points-of-view.
The book doesn't have a traditional plot-arc but more of the day-in-the-life feel, although it is a summer that none of the characters will forget.
At any rate, it's impressive that Prodigal Summer was written 6 years before the The Omnivore's Dilemma came out even though it feels like it's riding that manifesto's wave.
I liked this book, and I liked the message, but even though I agreed with her it was a little preachy.
All the characters kept getting in arguments that involved long exposition about how important each species is to the balance of nature all around it.
There were three narrators, and lots of very believable characters with authentic sounding voices, and a decent plot that wasn't just about saving the earth, even though that's about all anyone talked about throughout the dialog.
So, good message, and good characterization, but as I said, very preachy.
