https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/107323.Marazan
In the context of this novel, I chuckled to myself – and kept on reading!Nevil Shute’s writing is so well done that it made me feel an expert in things I knew nothing about: such as flying a two-seater aircraft and figuring out the best way to handle a crisis.
with only one or two taps on words so my eReader dictionary could help me out.In this novel, Philip Stenning’s life is saved by a man on the run.
Philip feels compelled to help him – partly because he really likes the man, and mostly because he felt he owed him that much.
This is Nevil Shute's first novel. For me it was just ok. Still a worthwhile read for Shute fans, but I wouldn't recommend starting here if this is your first of his books.
It has many elements one finds in later Shute books, airplanes, small sailing vessels in the English Channel, and romance that progresses as two people slowly develop a friendship while they are working together to address a problem.
It seems that the convict has an Italian half brother who is smuggling drugs into England, and the convict has escaped to try to stop the smuggling.
So naturally, while the pilot works to save the convict, by helping to bring the half brother to justice, he also falls for the cousin, because, after all, looks become ever so much more enchanting once wit and intelligence have had their chance to beguile the senses.
This early novel by Mr. Shute is not as polished as his mature work, but it is still interesting because it shows the origins of the narrative style which distinguishes his later novels.
Character development is uneven, there are too much deus ex machina and coincidence for my taste, and the climax and wrap-up leave loose ends that I believe would not have occurred in later Shute works.
All that notwithstanding, it's a good story, albeit one that will probably appeal mostly to dedicated Shute fans.
If you're reading Shute for the first time, start with one of his better-known novels.
I enjoyed Nevil's (3rd,) novel, the the 1st to be published, when he was 27. About a cocky pilot who becomes embroiled in an international mystery and not surprisingly, finds a romantic interest along the way.I cant recommend it due to the subtle racism (which hopefully he grew out of as he matured.)
A book of its time. An Ok read. Very jolly hockey sticks but not very PC.
This was Shute’s first book. It was okay, but he definitely got better as a writer as he wrote more.
Good, got better as it developed, tight plot, nice characters, excellent first book.
This debut novel from Shute draws heavily upon his experience as a pilot and sailor in an attempt to create a heavily lacquer of realism for what is more or less a potboiler of a plot.
Set in the mid-1920s, the story revolves around Stenning, a WWI pilot who now works for a commercial airline company, ferrying people and planes around England and Europe.
However, the plot leans altogether too heavily on coincidences (for example Stenning has an old Italian flying buddy who just happens to be perfectly placed to help him out.)If you're prepared to overlook the contrivances, it's a decent little page-turner.
Phillip Stenning is flying an assignment for his company in 1920's England, when his aeroplane accidentally crashes in a field, leaving him injured and trapped in the cockpit.
As he is about to give up hope, he is rescued from almost certain death by Denis Compton.
Compton turns out to be an escaped prisoner who was sent to prison after being framed by his Italian half-brother.
Phillip feels obligated to assist Compton avoid recapture until after he can prove his innocence.
It was fairly good but not nearly as well written as the many others of his that I have read.
I enjoyed it fairly well but can give it only a luke-warm recommendation.

more like a [7/10] - a decent book, considering it is the official debut of Nevil Shute (apparently his previous 2 efforts were unpublishable.
A straightforward plot, a likable young pilot as the lead character, plenty of technical details about flying and siling, and an understated love story - overall a glimpse of the beautiful, clear prose and strong sentiment that will become a signature for one of my favorite authors.
An interesting snaphot of England after WWI and Italy of rising fascism.Some slow descriptive chapters, infodumps and a little gauche dialogue place this book a little lower in the list of Nevil Shute favorites.
This was Shute's first book to be published, so of course it's not nearly his best work, but still a pretty good read.
It's a bit rough around the edges and of course quite old fashioned like all his work.
Those who like Shute's stories are prepared to tolerate that aspect.
His characters are not nearly as fully fleshed out as in his later books.
The plot is more melodramatic than in most of Shute's work, dealing with drug smuggling and the sort of violence involved in that horrid trade.
There is a degree of mystery as the plot begins to unfold but the ending is quite weak.
Philip Stenning crashes his plane in a field.
Compton, in prison clothing, comes along and helps him out.
They talk awhile, and Stenning offers to help Compton, who asks him to go to his cousin, Joan Stevenson, to get him clothes.
Stenning decides to help more by pretending to be Compton and leave red herrings while Compton does what he needs to do.
Stenning gradually finds out that Compton is trying to stop his half brother from bringing drugs into England, and Stenning is more than ready to help.
He is also falling in love with Joan.
Philip Stenning is a pilot who was forced to crash land his plan after mechanical issues.
It was an escaped convict, Denis Compton, who helps him extract himself from the wreckage.
In light of that, Stenning believes he owes it to Compton to help him make good on his escape.
Re-read in 2015.
This is listed as the first novel he published and while I enjoy some of his later stuff more, this is still good.
There is sufficient suspense in the process to keep me reading and wondering about the outcome right up to the end.
It is east see why this is a first novel. It is written in very matter of fact terms with no twists or turns. The main character comes across as a Cholmondley Warner type (Harry Enfield sketch) and speaks in a language that is very upper class. Tally Ho and jolly hockey sticks and all that. It's worth a read but is nothing more than a 1920's adventure yarn. I'm planning on reading his other novels as I am sure they will get better
The author's preface suggests that Shute was rather ashamed of this, his first novel. Sure, it's not perfect, but for a first effort it's very good indeed, reminiscent of John Buchan and with the themes and patterns of later books already present in embryo.
Captain Philip Stenning crashes the plane he is flying and his life is saved by an escaped convict named Compton. In return, Stenning develops an elaborate ruse to help Compton escape from England. This is Shute’s first novel. I’m so glad he went on to bigger and better things, but this was a good start.
The first of the two Nevil Shute paperback novels I picked up of the base library's free table. Fun anglophile escapism in the vein of The Riddle of the Sands the The Thirty-Nine Steps. The perfect sort of book to read on a train.
Somewhat different from many of his other novels, this is classic British pulp fiction of its time - that's not a criticism!
A fascinating and evocative adventure..
Shute's first published novel, and for that reason, well-worth reading. The first glimpses of his talent are here, and though awkward in places, the novel still spins a fine tale.
Cracking good story
Didn't live up to the Chequerboard, but making allowances for a first book so not off putting.
From page 167I am not of this earth,Nor born of mortal mother, But fortune with her turning, turning wheel, Hath brought me hither.A Gypsy saying.
No Bad. It's an early Nevil Shute and even he in his preface of this 1960s reprint downplays this novel. For Shute fans only
Someone else described this as for Shute fans only, and that is probably the case. I found it on my Dad's shelves back in the 70s and quite enjoyed it
One of Nevil's first books. Well written. Is incredibly detailed (maybe too much). Overall, fairly good.
I registered a book at BookCrossing.com!http://www.BookCrossing.com/journal/14324719
A good yarn of it's kind. Very confronting to read the racial slurs that we took for granted thirty years ago
