https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/59263.The_Golem_s_Eye
(B) 74% | More than SatisfactoryNotes: It could do with a more elaborate mythology. Improving on the first book, it’s still, for a fantasy, not terribly exciting.
I'm talking about my favorite djinni, Bartimaeus, back in book two of his young adult fantasy trilogy.
THE GOLEM'S EYE is an excellent sequel to the first book in the series, THE AMULET OF SAMARKAND.
In the first book, we meet Bartimaeus, an ancient creature of enormous power that can best be described as a type of demon.
In book one of the series, he summons Bartimaeus from the netherworld and an involuntary partnership begins.
In THE GOLEM'S EYE, young Nathaniel again finds himself in need of the djinni's aid, so he again turns to reluctant Bartimaeus.
Golem’s Eye does give us plenty of explanations as to why this world is the way it is, but this time the dynamics of a narrative are a bit different, it is no longer only about the boy and the djinn, now it there is another character that takes the prominent place.
Well, she turns out to be an important character in this novel and there is a good reason for her introduction for it makes sense not just in terms of the plot but in adding a human dimension to this novel.You see another thing I wondered about was what the relationship between the boy and the djinn would be like in the sequel.
The Golem's Eye, Jonathan Stroud, 2003The Golem's Eye is a children's novel of alternate history, fantasy and magic.
It is the second book in the Bartimaeus trilogy written by British author Jonathan Stroud.
آیا این حمله‌ ها از سوی همان گروه مخفی ست یا گروهی خطرناک‌ت در پشت کار استر؟ ناتانیل برای کشف حقیقت باید به پایتخت سرزمین دشمن برود و جن بزرگ، بارتیمیوس را احضار کند.
He is blamed for incompetence with regards to two threats; the resistance--a secret society blamed for stealing magical artifacts--and a golem, who is trouncing across London causing major havoc.
Nathaniel's personality has changed since the first novel--he is now more power-hungry, and his ethics have taken a bit of a dive, becoming more like those of the average magician.
Bartimaeus almost takes a liking to her, for her refreshing honesty, courage, and individualism.Now, I didn't read this book--I listened to the audiobook, narrated by Simon Jones.
My recommendation is do not read this book--listen to it!
4.5 starsThis series is getting better and better and I honestly have no real reason not to give it 5 stars except that I find it really hard to give 5 stars to children and middle grade books, sorry XDJust please tell me what is better than a morally grey 13 year old boy with a djinni as a servant?
I usually don't like morally grey characters because I can never see the reason behind their actions.
My first thought right after reading the book is that it is filled with temperamental and cocky teenagers, equally self-absorbed, bickering and snotty adult magicians and one Mr. Love guru called Bartimaeus.
Which actually is not a bad thing cause he cracks me up.Yup, ive been doing that quite a lot when Im reading :))Character For me, they were pretty much 1-dimensional.
There were even time when I have to stop reading it cause I can't handle the suspense just like so:Oh, and by the way, meet Honorius.
Μια από τις αγαπημένες μου σειρές - παραμύθια, κυρίως λόγω του βιτριολικού χιούμορ που τη διακρίνει. Ο Βαρτιμαίος, το πειθήνιο τζίνι (το τι λέει από μέσα του όμως είναι άλλου παπά ευαγγέλιο) είναι από τους αγαπημένους μου ήρωες - καρικατούρες (πω πω, έτσι και με άκουγε να τον λέω έτσι, θα ερχόταν από το υπερπέραν με όλες τις δαιμονικές κατάρες που ήξερε!!!)Με άρωμα ανατολής και μεσαιωνικής ευρώπης, ένα παραμύθι με πολέμους μάγων για μικρούς και μεγάλους (ποιους μικρούς δηλαδή.. ιεραρχήστε τις ανάγκες σας με τα πιτσιρίκια και αν γκρινιάζουν μέχρι να τελειώσετε εσείς με το Βαρτιμαίο δώστε τους το σπασίκλα!!)
He was the classic English guy writing about a doomed England of magic and magicians and the regular people known as "commoners": average English accent from near London area with some clipped Cockney when speaking, but when reading clear, upper class southern England accent; a very ordinary looking guy in a t-shirt and slacks, totally unassuming and seemingly unaware that he's a big famous author who's growing and growing in notoriety.I was talking to him about how I really liked that in his fantasy books involving magicians being separate and higher in social stature than ordinary people like you and me, Stroud pays more attention to what is happening socially with the paradigm, than just telling a story about a hot-shot wizard doing great things.
I still admire the world-building (a magical system based on good old fashioned demon summoning!) and Bartimaeus himself is still a fun character to read.
All the magicians, in fact, read like parodies of arrogant aristocrats.
It isn't entirely unjustified, in this world, but it sure isn't fun to read.
In fact, the only character I liked at all was Bartimaeus, but not nearly enough of the book was from his perspective.
I'm really disappointed, because I do think the world-building is generally very good and the first book was so strong.
Bartimaeus is a great character and this is a fast, fun read.
My reasons are: (1) I thought Nathaniel (aka John Mandrake) was pretty annoying much of the time and sometimes downright unlikeable; (2) I didn't think the author expanded enough on the mythology underlying the story (i.e., the magic system, the histories and powers of the various classes of demons) which I think is very interesting; and (3) I didn't think the scope of the plot was as big or engaging as in the first novel.
Criticism aside, the story is well-written and Bartimaeus, when he is on page, is a ton of fun.
اگه مدرسه محل تحصیل نبود با یه نفرین بر مدرسه شروع میکردمولی از حق نگذریم تموم کردن این کتاب ، اونم بعد از اتمام مدرسه ، وقتی که تابستون تازه شروع شده ، حس محشریه . خیلی خیلی از جاناتان استرود ممنونم و از زور کنجکاوی جلد بعد نمیدونم چی بگم (البته خیلی وقت هم هست که ریویو نذاشتم یادم رفته چی بنویسم) خلاصه که ، تا ریویو بعدی بدرود
But, aside from my sligh negative feelings about Nathaniel, I still think that this is really a book worth reading.Maybe it's not for little children, like I thought so for the first one, because it deals with slightly subtler and not-as-refined human emotions.
I don't believe any book ever had that nice feeling attached to it.
But still, it was pretty dampened by Nathaniel's behavior, because I got really attached to him in th first book.
Unless it is still very good, I think the first one in the series is much better.Bartimaeus made me laugh a lot again, but the story is slower and less interesting.
The end was very obvious too.In this second book, the Resistance take a more important roll in the story.
It is okay, but at the beginning of the book it was everything a mess switching between the magicians and the commoners, and only after a lot of pages I understood the point of such a thing.I will read the third book soon.
I really like this book series so far: Its definitely been one of the better things I have read recently.
Its consistently entertaining, light in tone, and populated with memorable characters.
The plot moves swiftly, and although there are definitely some borrowed elements, I think Stroud manages to be innovative within certain bounds.
I was constantly entertained, and I really loved the snarky djinni.
It kept the tone of the book light, and its nice to read a book that isn’t steeped in how seriously it takes itself.
Its an entertaining read.
Sigo con la relectura de la saga y, aunque la historia y la atmósfera sea algo más de adulto, sin embargo me ha gustado menos que el primer tomo. Stroud amplía el universo, introduce nuevos personajes y ciudades pero en detrimento del elemento más atractivo de toda la saga: los capítulos narrados en primera persona por el demonio Bartimeo.Una pena que, teniendo algo original y atractivo, lo deje a un lado en un intento de parecer más serio o darle más profundidad a la historia. A veces la virtud está en lo simple.
Reread - 27-12-2014
It continues the story of Nathaniel, now John Mandrake, a lonely and quite helpless self-absorbed teenager with an important job and status - you can see where this is going, and you know that it's not good.
The guys and girl that made an appearance in the previous book are back and we get a glimpse into their lives and their souls.Slow-paced in the beginning, fast-paced in the end, the book shows the cruelty of the magicians and the sufferings of the ordinary people living in oppression.
I'd recommend it especially for preteens and teens, but it's a good story for any age.
Цілий рік мені трапляються якісні мультинарративи, від Канетті до Шейна Джонса. А ось тепер до них доєднався і Страуд, всі персонажі якого є антигероями та кожен вибір яких покликаний поставити перед читачем питання сприйняття їхнього морального образу, змушує все більше думати над етичними проблемами цих містично-вікторіанських 90-х. На відміну від Ролінґ, із якою редакція "Ескмо" так нарочито порівнює Джонатана, він не розмежовує світ магів та маґлів-простолюдинів. Він не робить беззмістовних спроб втиснути все до магічно-логічних рамок, як це робить мати Поттера. Його світ людяний, шо капець. І саме тим неперевершений.
Lo sviluppo dei personaggi è, come ho già accennato precedentemente, ciò che di Stroud mi lascia più sorpresa e soddisfatta, e anche qui nell'Occhio del Golem l'autore non smentisce affatto la sua bravura: la scelta di intrattenersi con un personaggio principale come Nathaniel, che pagina dopo pagina sguazza con sempre più compiacimento in quella fanghiglia di sentina che è l'élite dirigente dei maghi londinesi, che pagina dopo pagina diventa sempre più avido, viscido, pigro, insopportabile, è coraggiosa e già da sola, assieme alla maestria e al buon senso con cui è stata gestito, guadagna al libro non poco merito.
E quanto sono felice che ancora devo esplorare il suo genio *_*Bartimeus rimane il personaggio preferito incontrastato, con le sue risposte taglienti e ironiche (che spesso però non sono comprese da maghi e umani :D): un potentissimo Jinn che si trova nuovamente, suo malgrado, al servizio di Nathaniel.Nathaniel..
Stroud è un genio: è un personaggio principale, quindi un po' si fa anche il tifo per lui pur essendo più volte che no sgradevolissimo..
Ho davvero fatto il tifo per la loro distruzione, lo ammetto :3Grandi descrizioni, grandi personaggi e una grande storia: se avete iniziato la trilogia, mollate quello che state leggendo e recuperate questo volume il più presto possibile..
However things go from bad to worse for Nathaniel.
From the Resistance, golems, skeletons and inner enemies amongst other magicians, this duo has their work cut out for them.
Kitty, the thief leader we briefly met in the first book.
She is a active member of the Resistance.
Bartimaeus is still a great character, however Nathaniel has become career and self obsessed and often frustrating.
I loved learning about Kitty, her backround, personality and more.
Even Nathaniel is, in a unlikeable way.
The story is nicely paced with a blend of past and present.
Also a great character blend.
But he's obviously turning into just another ambitious, selfish, lying, magician.Then there's Bartimaeus, a jinn (genie, djinn)or....demon.
Not a being you'd expect to like...but then compared to John Mandrake, well...This is the second book in the Bartimaeus trilogy and the story picks up a few years after the close of the first.
Nathanial/John Mandrake had (apparently) agreed not to call Bartimaeus again...apparently, as that was the jinn's understanding but well, John decided he hadn't actually taken that vow..These books are well done, give a good story with lots of adventure and laughs (from the narration as well as the tale itself).
The pace and ideas continue in the second installment of the Bartimaeus Trilogy with The Golem's Eye. Kitty's character gets more exposure and "page time", while Nathaniel, now a very pompous 14 year old working high up in the government, tries to track her down as leader of the Resistance, and hopefully find a link between her and the giant clay golem trashing London.
At risk of making the ruling class (the magicians) look incompetent, a lot of pressure is on Nathaniel's young shoulders.
With his entertaining views on everything from other djinn to Nathaniel himself, he continues to be the most engaging character.
Much better than the first book. The demon Bartimaeus is hilarious! Looking forward to Book III!
در این کتاب همان روندی را که در کتاب اول برقرار بود، این دفعه برای سه نفر انجام شد؛ ناتانیل، بارتیمیوس و کیتی!سرنوشت هر سه جداگانه بیان میشد تا اینکه در اواسط کتاب به هم رسیدند و دوباره جدا شدند.الان احتمالاتی که با دانسته ها میتوان گرفت:۱. میک پیس زیر همه این توطئه هاست و از هاپکینز به عنوان رابط خود استفاده کرده است.۲. میک پیس و هاپکینز، یک نفر هستند.تنها کتاب آخر که میتونه حقیقت رو مشخص کنه!
از کتاب اول بیشتر ازش لذت بردم. و درسای خوبی بم داد...چیزایی که دنبالشون میگشتم...
Even though knowing quite a few words more than people of my age, I filled nearly an entire page of words I've met and said hello in the book but didn't know them enough to start a conversation ( just a little lame metaphor here.
I cannot possibly use words to express just how PERFECT he describes his scenes and objects portrayed in them.
If you look closely-in some parts of course, not all of them- you'll see he sometimes describe the scene as the narrator or main character of a particular chapter's vision.
For example, Stroud was describing the spheres of a long shelf...
ولی توی یه جامعه و کنار انسان هایی بزرگ شده که معتقدن خودشون از یه سری مردم دیگه بهترن و علاوه بر اون؛ باید به خاطرش به خودشون افتخار کنن.
یه مجلس که کاملاً از عوام - خیلی بدم میاد از این کلمه :| - تشکیل شده، نمی تونه روی همچین جامعه ای حکومت کنه؛ چون یه سری انسان هایی داخلش مخفی شدن که ممکنه قدرت به هم ریختن چیز های زیادی رو داشته باشن.
به شدت عالی بود؛ یعنی طوری که باورم نمی شد حتی :-"ولی یه مشکل خیلی بزرگ داشت؛ اونم این بود که من نمی دونم نصف شخصیت های کتاب رو اسمشون رو چجوری باید تلفظ کنم.
Two things stood out in this book: the characters development and the world building.The world building actually impressed me the most.
I was impressed!As character development goes Kitty took the cake.
I admired the skill with which Stroud introduced Kitty and her backstory seamlessly into the plot.
It’s easy to dislike him if you only take the events into account, but you can’t help admire the complexity of the character if you consider Nathaniel’s youth, how he was brought up and the complete lack of a mentor with moral standards.
All things considered I think Nathaniel is doing as well as it can be expected.
