https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/7723542-a-dog-s-purpose
It made me look at my own dog differently, wondering how it feels, how much it loves me, and what it thinks about his own life. I hope that all animals souls are like the ones in this book and I found myself laughing as much as I was crying while reading this book
Prepare your heartstrings... I had never bothered to consider that there might be such a thing as a boy, but now that I had found one, I thought it was just about the most wonderful concept in the world.   Ahhh, snap goes one heartstring right away. The more I read this book, the fewer heartstrings I had - completely touching and absolutely wonderful throughout.  Cleaning the dishes was where the boy would put a plate of food down and I would lick it. It was one of my jobs, but only when Mom was
I had never bothered to consider that there might be such a thing as a boy, but now that I had found one, I thought it was just about the most wonderful concept in the world.
Ahhh, snap goes one heartstring right away.
The more I read this book, the fewer heartstrings I had - completely touching and absolutely wonderful throughout.
this book.I was really impressed with the way the dog's consciousness was handled.
In the perspective-from-a-dog books I've read, there's always been plot holes where the dog would understand a difficult or abstract concept but not be able to communicate back to the humans (because of...reasons).
This book confirms what you know in your heart to be true, that love never dies, and that our animal friends are always with us.
Update: For those who have been considering reading this book....It's on sale today for $1.99 as a Kindle deal I saw the movie ..Anyone else?
I loved running through the mud by the water trough, my paws making a dirty splatter that flecked my fur".I've seen the movie trailer.....had picked up a new copy hardcover for a dollar years back......but it was that darn golly-adorable trailer that inspired me to read it now.
I thought of our little black baby face Chihuahua, Lunchbox, and our parakeets, Phil, Lil, and Jil. It's a human thing to do while reading this story...reflect on the love for our pets.
UPDATE TO MY UPDATE!This book was one of the top five "Best Fiction" in the 2010 Goodreads Awards!
I hope all the people here who have loved it as much as I did will vote and it wins!I got an early reader's copy because my friend works at a bookstore.
Seriously, this was the greatest dog book I've ever read, and I've read a lot of them.
Seriously, if you ever loved a dog, run, don't walk to get your hands on this.
I'm so grateful it was given to me, it's about the only thing that has made me feel better about losing my best friend.
As a dog owner (I have a 10-month-old Goldendoodle named Fritz, short for Fritzgerald, yes the extra 'r' is intentional) and lover, I enjoyed this book and found it somewhat heartwarming.
Thoughts I had while listening: Dogs can be really annoying; most dog owners are awful people; I really want to train Fritz to be a search and rescue dog; I want to teach Fritz how to open a door with his mouth; I don't know if I have the patience to train a puppy again; I want to adopt a senior dog.
Yes, I cried.
I cried and rolled my eyes simultaneously.
Find all of my reviews at: http://52bookminimum.blogspot.com/It’s time once a year for my library’s Winter Reading Challenge and my chance to score a FREEEEEEEE coffee mug. (Yes, I am the cheapest date you could ever imagine.) This year’s theme????  Basically any book that became a movie or television program. It turns out this is apparently the list of recommended reads I grab onto each year because I had read a bigly portion of the suggested titles (and had less than zero interest in some of t
I had put A Dog’s Purpose on the wait list after seeing the preview when I took my kids to see Sing - a movie everyone else apparently loved but I thought was super .
The entire flippin’ time I was reading.The story is about a dog who .
It was, I reflected, the only thing that gave my life any purpose.” 
“This was, I decided, my purpose as a dog, to comfort the boy whenever he needed me.” 
“My purpose, my whole life, had been to love him and be with him, to make him happy.” 
“Could a dog have more than one purpose?” 
5 stars not so much for storyline but for completely understanding dogs! So emotional so many times. Dogs are the best.
I loved the voice of "the dog," through every incarnation, from the very first lines "One day it occurred to me that the warm, squeaky, smelly things squirming around next to me were my brothers and sister.
Bruce Cameron pulls back from being overly sentimental with every passing followed by a rebirth that pulls you immediately into the new life and the new situation.
"A Dog's Purpose" is about the undying love and bond between man and his best friend, more than that it explores the concept of our individual purposes in life and why we are here with humor, although you'll undoubtedly shed a few tears.
This story is bitter-sweet, sentimental to the extreme and stylistically almost childlike in its simplicity, exactly what I expected from a book titled ‘A Dog’s Purpose’. It didn’t disappoint. 4 stars for delivering such a charming piece of escapism, couldn’t put it down, polished it off in a day and a half. And I just want to say to Toby, Bailey, Ellie & Buddy – Good Dog!
If you have or have ever had a dog in your life, PLEASE pick up this book. I tore through this in 48 hours with very little sleep and experienced the entire roller coaster of emotions.
I knew better than to believe the gushing reviews that said this was the best book ever written in the history of books, and that the author "accurately" captured what goes on in a (reincarnated) dog's mind.
While cute and mildly entertaining, this novel is, at best, an easy-to-read, mediocre tale about this dog's lives, and his favorite owner.
I just don't get the hype over it.
Editorial reviews call this a tear-jerker.
It tried, but failed to really pull at my heartstrings, and I am a *big* crier when it comes to touching animal stories.
Terrific book. I smiled, laughed, and cried. Get out the Kleenex box! Read in a couple of days.
I decided to buy two more copies so I could read it again while I loaned it to my boss and my roommate.
The author has a website www.adogspurpose.com where my rottweiler Maverick was almost voted dog of the week (we lost to a puppy, such is life).
I found out that the book is going to be a Dreamworks movie (anyone know a release date?) and the author of the book has agreed to write the screenplay!
It grips you from page one and despite being very touching (I teared up) it is surprisingly funny.I would recommend this book to anybody, dog lover or not.
This incredible story is told by Baily who for a certain reason is 'different' and is therefore a truly unique dog.
The love and loyalty of a dog for his owner is also a theme that is so evident throughout.
I was caught up in his bewilderment and the gamut of feelings he experiences and tries hard to work out.The book is suitable for readers of all ages and Baily gradually grows in wisdom as his life continues.
I prefer to tempt potential readers to discover for themselves what is so different about this beautiful book.
Everything Baily learns about life is stored into his heart and mind.
A lovely book about a dog looking for his purpose in life.
He goes through four births/rebirths as the same soul in a different dog, adding his experiences and knowledge through the ups and downs of life as a dog.
He wants to serve his human owners to the best of his ability even if they are cruel and thoughtless.
His joy in being a dog shines through with his delight in running and explorng, his disdain of cats (who have no purpose that he can see) and his love for the special boy in his life.
A charming book, especially for dog lovers.
4.5 starsA Dog's Purpose is the story of a dog with a deep affection for people and his search for his purpose in life.
He begins life as a feral dog but is soon reborn and finds himself with an eight-year-old boy named Ethan.
This book has the perfect balance of sentiment, humor, and suspense.
I love the ideas that everyone comes into each others' lives for a purpose and that the love continues even after death and the hope that we'll be reunited eventually.
Highly recommend."My purpose, my whole life, had been to love him and be with him, to make him happy."
such a good book with so much emotion. you can really tell that the author took his time creating a dog with enough love and determination to make this story great.he did a marvelous job getting in to a dog's brain and interpreting the things they see and hear. i loved the ending to this book and i would recommend it to anyone who loves a wonderful book. great job W. Bruce Cameron! i truly loved it!
Because failure isn’t an option if success is just a matter of more effort.Before I start my review, I think I’ll post the picture of my four legged reading buddy, Mo, who often sit beside me as I read this book and enjoys being a front-seat dog as much as Bailey.Let me ask a question.
This book tells of a dog who’s seeking it’s purpose in life through four lifetime.
But it’s also the most touching part in the book for me since I have dogs myself and I mostly can relate the story with my own experiences with my dogs.
Todo el libro está narrado por el perro.No me hace falta conocerlos mucho para saber que ya capté su atención porque, siendo honestos, ¿quién no querría leer una historia desde el punto de vista de un cachorro?Creo que W.
Por extraño y difícil que parezca, al leer este libro realmente creí que un perro estaba contándome la historia.
Consigue en unas 300 páginas narrar no sólo la vida de un ser dedicado, fiel, divertido y entrañable, sino que también hace que te preocupes por él y que quieras ser partícipe de su viaje y su descubrimiento.Si hay algo importantísimo que debo rescatar de este libro es que tiene la capacidad de abrirte un poco los ojos.
dicen que el perro es el mejor amigo del hombre.
I thought this was a cute book (told from the dog's POV) about one dog's search for purpose in life.
Although in this book the dog wan't just one dog he was Toby,Bailey, Ellie, and Buddy.
In each of his lives he searches for his purpose.This book was sad at times and happy at times.
In this book, the dog definitely has a soul and has thoughts and emotions.This book came highly recommended to me.
What is great about this book is that it can be enjoyed by most readers - young and old alike.
WE learn a lot from our pets: love, companionship, responsibility, and coping with loss.
A Dog's Purpose is the first installment in W.
Bruce Cameron's fiction, animal POV series titled A Dog's Purpose.
The simplicity of the writing is almost childlike as the narrator is a dog who is confused by human behavior and just wants to please in any way.
I know a human wrote this book, and who even knows what really goes on in a dog's head, but I feel even more motivated to make Charlie as happy as he truly makes me ♥.Meet CharlieMy favorite quote:“The job of a good dog was ultimately to be with them, remaining by their sides no matter what course their lives might take.
[4.5 Stars]My Video Review:https://youtu.be/c41GU47tUTg
This is one of the best books I have read. Anyone who has ever had a dog needs to read this. It is funny and heartwarming.
Reading the repeated lives of a dog through Toby, Bailey, Elle, and Buddy, I laughed and cried.
I found myself wondering how much I have taught her, how much she has taught me, and I hugged more than once reading this as I knew that we both grew in learning about our purpose together.I would highly recommend "A Dog's Purpose" to others.
I will be reading this book again and again to remind myself about its lessons and the wonderful company I've kept in the companionship of dogs.
Amazing.
adorable - the 2nd half is not nearly as great as the first half, almost like another book - but still enjoyable
Three Words, July 6, 2010By John C. McDonnellThis review is from: A Dog's Purpose (Hardcover)I received a publisher's advance copy of W. Bruce Cameron's first novel, "A Dog's Purpose". In a word? Magnificent. OK, two words. Brilliant. Actually three. Soul. Bruce Cameron has brought forth a magnificent, touching piece of a soul's journey through life in search of purpose and meaning. At times hilarious and yet other times heart breaking, Bruce brilliantly weaves a story of a dog and its quest th
Bruce Cameron's first novel, "A Dog's Purpose".
Bruce Cameron has brought forth a magnificent, touching piece of a soul's journey through life in search of purpose and meaning.
Real tears born out of your life's memories of pets past and the essential intertwining of souls that exists in no other relationship.
That bond (from the dog's perspective) is what brings the true love in this novel to life.
Though many dream of writing that one great novel, the difference here is that Bruce Cameron has done it right out of the gate and I have a feeling that there is plenty more where that came from.
A Dog’s Purpose is one of the most fantastic, wonderful books I’ve ever read.
My son and his wife had to have their 15-year-old golden retriever put to sleep after a long and full life, a short time ago.
And so while I was reading A Dog’s Purpose, Tucker came to live with my son and his wife.
My son is reading A Dog’s Purpose right now and I know he is finding comfort in his old friend’s passing in those pages and joy in the new, exuberant life that has joined their household.
This book made me cry a lot. Such a beautiful story. I wanted to be a character in the book so I can stay with the dog and make him happy. There is no doubt that this kind of stories are the best. I watched the movie too and I cried at that one too, but somehow the book was different and I’m really glad I read it. ❤️
