https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/836607.Fruits_Basket_Vol_3
During this installment, we follow Tohru as she attempts (and due to certain events fails) to complete her schools endurance test, makes Valentine's chocolates for her friends and all those from the Zodiac she has met, goes on a double date with Yuki, Kagura and the emotionally blackmailed Kyo, and has a nice and relaxing trip to the Sohma hot springs with Momiji, Yuki and the once again, emotionally blackmailed Kyo. We are introduced to Haru in this volume, who brings a refreshing and very Fruits Basket-esque humour to the story.
This volume of Fruits Basket makes us question just this.
Because I am dying to know what's going to happen next!I really enjoyed Takaya-sensei's humor in this volume.
DID YOU SEE HOW AWESOME HARU WAS IN THIS VOLUME BECAUSE I DID AND I JUST WENT ALL MAD FOR HIM BECAUSE HE IS BEYOND SEXY AND CUTE AND WAH!!!
I do think Haru is a fracking awesome character!!!
Seriously, read this manga so you can see how amazing this character is.
I ranted about Haru and he's not even the main character so my review is a bit out of order this time around but...
I know for a fact my future reviews for this series is not going to get any better so...
So cute! I adore this series! In this volume we really get to see just how kind and caring Tohru is. How she puts others' happiness before her own. She really is super sweet. Yet still naive! Shigure I was really liking but this volume I am really arching my eyebrows in his direction. He is up to something shady... Adds new intrigue as well to this series. It is starting to have a darker edge... Join Tohru and the Sohma's as they celebrate Valentines day and a spa vacation! And get some great insight from Momiji while you read!
Not gonna lie, I'm still a little bit in love with Kyo Sohma to this day.
I'll give it one more shot with Volume 4, but I really don't know that this series is for me.
I am hardcore shipping Tohru and Kyo and it's only VOLUME THREE.
They are conspiring to do something with the curse and it somehow involves Tohru, Yuki and Kyo. I hope to find out more in the next volume, because it was pretty vague in this one, but I was fascinated.
The growing relationships Tohru has with all the members of the zodiac are awesome to watch and I love seeing the other zodiac members comment about how Yuki or Kyo have changed for the better because of Tohru.
5/5 stars.First book of the year! I've just decided to reread this series again, I love it so much. :') Third time rereading it and I still notice things I never noticed before. :D
I loved this addition to the series. It was so funny and entertaining. The banter between the characters is the best. I love all of the awkward and embarrassing moments that the characters experience frequently makes this series hard to put down.
If you haven't already seen the anime (in which case you should) or read the previous volumes (in which case you should), I'd highly advise avoiding this particular review too....You're welcome.So anyways, Volume 3 of Fruits Basket!After being briefly introduced to Hatsuharu Sohma in the previous volume when Shigure makes a trip to the main house for New Years, naturally we want to know more about the guy and this volume give it to us in the opening chapter.Hatsuharu is perceptive and younger than both; Kyo and Yuki Sohma.
5/5 stars!!I'm falling more and more in love with this series all over again. And Haru! We got to meet Haru! :)
Continues to be readable. But still too hard for me to keep track of who is whom. I liked the trip to the Hot Springs and the hostess, though not when she when all crazy monkey. I'd like the book better if it was more detailed, more chance to see the setting. And if so much of it wasn't repetitive. And on to the next one.
3.5 stars - Spoilers-Pretty good but not as enjoyable as the previous two volumes.-Tohru was still as likeable and ditzy as ever.-Yuki was blah. Definitely not a fan of the potential Yuki/Tohru pairing. -Loved Kyo and Momiji. Haru was pretty good too.-Liked the onsen tour, and the double date with Kagura/Kyo and Yuki/Tohru. -The only thing that was disappointing was the dialogue/story didn't always flow well or make sense. — it made for frustrating reading. -Hoping volume 4 will be a bit better.
3.5 stars - Spoilers-Pretty good but not as enjoyable as the previous two volumes.-Tohru was still as likeable and ditzy as ever.-Yuki was blah. Definitely not a fan of the potential Yuki/Tohru pairing. -Loved Kyo and Momiji. Haru was pretty good too.-Liked the onsen tour, and the double date with Kagura/Kyo and Yuki/Tohru. -The only thing that was disappointing was the dialogue/story didn't always flow well or make sense. — it made for frustrating reading. -Hoping volume 4 will be a bit better.

Another great addition to this series. Again, we meet more of the family, but most importantly the subtle larger plot continues to grow and we find out who is pulling which strings. I loved this and cried during it, as seems to be normal for me during this series. I look forward to the next volume!
As usual, I am never disappointed with my Fruits Basket journey. There are major developments in this book. Several characters are experiencing growth and learning to come to grips with who they are and how they feel. We continue to meet more members of the peculiar Somah family. I find that I am intrigued by the members and their association with the different members of the zodiac sign. At times, the storyline appeared quite childish; however, this manga is strictly for entertainment. There is nothing (for now) to take away from this reading experience.
Kyo is my favorite character and I love how calm he's becoming. it's such great character development. 💜💜 Yuki and Kyo aren't friend but they'll pretend to get along for Tohru. also Momiji is adorable and I'm glad that translated from manga to anime.
Two new characters joined with interesting personalities, they are now some of my new favorites.I find it cool that all the characters all have their unique characteristics and personalities. even though they have different personalities they all unite as a family. :)
La historia empieza poco a poco a dejar de lado su etapa dulce para volverse más oscura...Paso al tomo 4 inmediatamente :D
Welcome to what happens when Yuki over extends himself, Kyo doesn't QUITE understand his feels and Shigure is...:sigh:Oh!
And though we don't know WHO she is quite yet, we also meet Ritsu's mother, who runs the Sohma Inn. So we (formally) meet Haru, who seems to have a crush on or just a lot of naughty feelings for, Yuki ("Black" Haru is more then a little suggestive about what they can do...but he makes pretty much the same offer to Tohru soo...).
Giving Tohru a shock of her life to find out he's only a year younger then her.
I can't actually express how much I love it.
(It might just have been Hatsuharu...) He's interesting.
All the Sohma's are interesting, actually.
He's sort of like Kyo, but less severe, and he obviously likes Yuki more.
(view spoiler)[Sort of awkward when he spontaneously declares that Yuki's his first love though!
(I completely forgot about this particular piece of information myself.)I keep being surprised by everyone thinking Yuki's all polite and nice!
I don't remember ever finding out what was up with Shigure.I love Kyo so much.
Yuki was mean with the leek...I think that's about it for now.
:D this manga is so cute.
My friend Karri recommended it to me, and I'm so glad I have it a chance.Seriously.
Like, a painfully fluffy overload of sappy cuddle party cuteness.
Seriously, just look at my manga shelf.
I did just buy a couple of romance mambas, so that should be interesting.)But after the first glance look of cuteness, you'll see that what "fruits basket" lacks in over the top bloodiness, it makes up for in characterization.
:) seriously, there are some very well rounded characters here, & some surprisingly deep moments for a series that is presented as such a fluffy Romantic comedy type story.
I think it's hilarious how the guys are always fighting and Tohru is so upset, always trying to make peace between them, but in the end all these zodiac guys really do care about each other.They may fight and get on each other's last nerve, but they are still family.I love the whole storyline with the Valentine's chocolates.
He is so full of energy!I loved Momiji's story about the "Most Foolish Traveler in the World", and his philosophy on generosity.
That's one seriously wise little boy!The hostess at the hot springs was much less annoying in print.
:'( ) and the Souma family need to give her a White Day gift!
Momiji, (who is adorable) gives her the gift of going on a trip, which Yuki goes, with Kyou slightly reluctant coming too.Surprisingly, although Momiji is extremely cute, (like a little second grader) it turns out he's really 15 years old, the same as the B-A Haru and almost the same as Tohru herself.What I'm wondering is why everyone in the Souma family is so popular, yet they almost seem to have double personalities...?
The fact that Yuki just stuffed negi (Leeks) into Kyo's mouth is absolutely hilarious.
The dramatic and hilarious fight between Hatsaru and Kyo...
And the sudden encounter with Kyo's 'Love', Kagura.
She's really funny and made me want to read even further to the book.
Not forgetting my favourite panel: Shigure with the maid dress to 'repay' Tohru for the lovely chocolate.
And Haru's comment on his gift was absolutely hilarious.
Ah, drawing that very hot picture of Kyo at the front just makes you want to pick it up when you see it in the shops or one of the booths in an anime convention.
Soooo what if I'm read a manga? I swore to myself in high school that I would never become one of those obsessive girls - its just weird. And I have stayed true to that promise. But I have to read these. There's no going back. The story and situations the characters find themselves in are nothing short of hysterical. Yes, Fruits Basket is my greatest guilty pleasure. I love it.
I am absolutely loving this series.
its dank
The graphics convey such interesting emotions. Amusing to the extreme. =)Reread review.. excellent condition and a fabulous story. =)
