https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/41811.The_Caves_of_Steel
If you're into stuff like this, you can read the full review.C/Fe: "The Caves of Steel" by Isaac Asimov"There were infinite lights, the luminous walls and ceilings that seemed to drip cool, even phosphorescence; the flashing advertisements screaming for attention; the harsh, steady gleam of the 'lightworms' that directed:THIS WAY TO JERSEY SECTIONS, FOLLOW ARROWS TO EAST RIVER SHUTTLE, UPPER LEVEL FOR ALL WAYS TO LONG ISLAND SECTIONS.Most of all, there was the noise that was inseparable from life.
The sound of millions talking, laughing, coughing, calling, humming, breathing."In "The Caves of Steel" by Isaac AsimovSet 2,000 years in the future, "The Caves of Steel" shows us contrasting pictures of Earth and the Outer Worlds - colonized planets throughout the Galaxy.
In The Caves of Steel and its sequels (the first of which is The Naked Sun), Asimov paints a grim situation of an Earth dealing with an extremely large population, and of luxury-seeking Spacers who limit birth to permit great wealth and privacy.
چند سالی هست که (بنا به دلایلی که با خواندن داستان مشخص میشود) به زمین آمده اند، اما از زمینیان دوری میکنند، و در کنار شهر آنها، شهرکی برپا کرده اند، که روباز است و آفتاب به آن میتابد و باران میبارد.
Robot 1:>Speculation On Future Of Human Life >Human Life In Mega-Cities >Ants In Anthill >Living In Caves Of Steel >Reduction Of Space Means Reduction Of Individual Liberties, Reduction Of Privacy, Reduction Of Ability To Do Typical Human Things Like Go Outside Or Eat Alone >Reduction Of Human Mind To Primitive Traits Including Xenophobia And Group-Think >Humans Devolve While Robots Evolve > Predictable Trajectory For Humans And Robots Alike >Stupid Humans >LMAO Ro
Robot 1:>Speculation On Future Of Human Life >Human Life In Mega-Cities >Ants In Anthill >Living In Caves Of Steel >Reduction Of Space Means Reduction Of Individual Liberties, Reduction Of Privacy, Reduction Of Ability To Do Typical Human Things Like Go Outside Or Eat Alone >Reduction Of Human Mind To Primitive Traits Including Xenophobia And Group-Think >Humans Devolve While Robots Evolve > Predictable Trajectory For Humans And Robots Alike >Stupid Humans >LMAO
Robot 2:Author.
science fiction.
all all all humans think in binary terms like those presented in Caves of Steel!
I was reminded of Caves a couple of months ago when I read Margaret Atwood's The Robber Bride, which is in many ways an updated version of the Jezebel story from I Kings.
Here's what Asimov has to say:The Jezebel of the Bible was a faithful wife and a good one according to her lights.
Jehu then rode to Jezreel where the old queen-mother, Jezebel, was residing.
He had her thrown from the window of her palace and killed, but she made a good end, according to my lights.I'd forgotten how passionate he was about defending her.
Donald, Hillary, Gary and Jill are drinking wine, playing Twister, listening to Coltrane and discussing Isaac Asimov’s 1954 novel Caves of Steel.Hillary: One of my favorite Asimov stories is the eulogy Vonnegut said for him, as the mourners are gathered he said, “Well, he’s in heaven now.”Donald: Hilarious Hillary, I rolled a blue left foot, so let me just slide this way.
Funny that you mention Heaven as Asimov used much of this futuristic story as a way to discuss some Biblical issues.Jill: Yellow right hand!
The second group, the Spacers, are the decendants of "Earth" first colonists who years before left the Earth to colonize the 50 "Outerworlds." In contrast to the Earth, the Outerworlds have very low populations and live a life of luxury, in part do their embrace of Robots as useful tools to help make life easier.
The real charm of the story is the description of life on Earth, the contrast between that life and that of the Spacers and the Earthmen and the explorations of the various prejudices among the groups.
❝ People sometimes mistake their own shortcomings for those of society and want to fix the Cities because they don’t know how to fix themselves.❞   Issac Asimov's expansion of Robot short stories gave birth to this unique novel which balances itself between hard science fiction, philosophy, religious undertones and a classic murder mystery. In this novel, we are introduced to a highly advanced and a very dystopian New York city which has enwombed the ever growing population of humanity with a
Issac Asimov's expansion of Robot short stories gave birth to this unique novel which balances itself between hard science fiction, philosophy, religious undertones and a classic murder mystery.
The story revolves around officer Elijah Baley and his unorthodox partner, R.
They are still flawed, emotive and some are even aghast and distasteful with all the advancements.The characters introduced are well written and developed, especially Baley, Daneel and Commissioner Julius Enderby.
It is important that you handle this case very diplomatically because of our relationship with spacers.Elijah Baley: Sure, Commissioner.
I am your man.[Later in front of spacers]Elijah Baley: THE GUY ISN'T DEAD.
I thought I'd read this before.
I really thought I had.
But maybe I just saw it on my Mom's headboard when I was little, with other Asimovs, and thought I'd read it.
So either I had read it and blocked out everything but that, or Asimov didn't construct his mystery particularly well in this case.
Note: The rest of this review has been withdrawn due to the recent changes in Goodreads policy and enforcement.
You can read why I came to this decision here.In the meantime, you can read the entire review at Smorgasbook
This is essentially a detective story set in a future world of megacities, space exploration, and human/robot interaction.
Asimov presents a solution that is remarkably progressive, arguing for a future in which humans and robots can live and work together.
Whether read in terms of a human/machine future or in terms of contemporary politics and Otherness, this is a promising and hopeful vision of future cooperation.In general, this is an interesting and entertaining novel, which, although it does fall prey to some stereotypical devices of detective fiction (e.g., explaining everything away in the last few pages in long speeches), its only real weakness to my mind is Asimov's overreliance on one particular exclamation.
I wrote a very eloquent long review and then lost it :P It's happened to all of us!Lots of food for thought in this relatively short story.I tried to read Foundation a while ago and couldn't get into it.
I'm not sure what to call the resulting society but it makes for an interesting model.(view spoiler)[ For me one of the most interesting questions in the book was whether or not it was necessary for Dr. Fastolfe and Daneel to drug Baley before convincing him that colonisation was the best course for humanity.
A detective novel that takes place in a far future Earth where humans have resourced to live underground so that the entire surface of the planet can be use for agriculture.
I'm a fan of Asimov's work but this one is a little different.
And it's hard work to make a detective novel feels real when you can spirit any technological solution out of nowhere to explain how you caught the bad guy, which Asimov is careful not to do.A perfect weekend read for those who love crime novels and those who love Sci Fi because both genre fare well in this book.
"Estamos aquí -dijo el robot-, y al decir estamos, me refiero a nuestra gente del Enclave Espacial, para romper el cascarón que rodea a la Tierra y forzar a su pueblo a una nueva expansión y colonización." Maravilloso.
Sigo en mi intento de leerme todas las novelas de Asimov de su mundo Robots-Imperio-Fundación.
Despúes de leer varias historias cortas de robots en Yo, robot y El robot completo, debo decir que es gratificante por fin continuar con una trama más elaborada.En "El robot completo" hay una historia corta llamada "Imagen en un espejo" protagonizada también por Lije Baley pero que, al parecer, occurre después de El sol desnudo.
Esta idea, por cierto, nunca fue descartada por Asimov, pero tampoco llegó a ver la luz.¡Gracias, Enclave Espacial!
I read and reread this book whenever I can, and each time, it tells me a different story. If something like infinity is within our grasp, well, as far as I'm concerned, then it's to be found in The Caves of Steel.
The second group, the Spacers, are the decendants of "Earth" first colonists who years before left the Earth to colonize the 50 "Outerworlds." In contrast to the Earth, the Outerworlds have very low populations and live a life of luxury, in part do their embrace of Robots as useful tools to help make life easier.
The real charm of the story is the description of life on Earth, the contrast between that life and that of the Spacers and the Earthmen and the explorations of the various prejudices among the groups.
Caves of Steel is a detective story, set around the murder of a Spacer (a visiting colonist from another world).
But I think it's fair to say that Asimov is at least as much interested in building his world as he is in the mystery itself.
It's a good thing, because the mystery isn't entirely satisfactory.The world he builds, on the other hand...
It's a pretty solidly built world, and I was far more interested in reading more about the civism system that Earth's cities use.
Bailey was a nearly perfect viewpoint character to use in this story.
I'm excited to keep reading the Robots series, and onwards.
The one woman in the book was basically just in the story to be hysterical, gullible, and even nonsensical.The protagonist, though he is allegedly a competent professional detective, acts like he's never dealt with actual people before, and the entire police department is startled into overly emotional reactions when they discover there has been a murder.
The only character who is intelligent throughout the book is the robot, which would be interesting if the robot was the protagonist, but since we are instead treated to chapters full of inane dialogue between a dumb "detective" and his even more idiotic wife, it's very hard to deal with.I gave this book two stars instead of one, because the denouement was actually good enough to make up for some of the headache of the earlier chapters.
I really enjoyed this but Jehoshaphat it was dated!
Isaac Asimov is well known as a science fiction writer and this book is supposed to be a science fiction/detective story "fusion" book.
Apparently Asimov wanted to demonstrate that science fiction could meld with other genres (according to the book cover).
The detective partners in the story are a New York detective named Elijah Baley and a very human-looking robot, called R.
But the "detection" seems to consist of the cop just accusing one person after another - he doesn't even question suspects.
Not such a good "fusion"...
but later books in the series do get better.You can follow my reviews at https://reviewsbybarbsaffer.blogspot....
The Caves of Steel was an awesome sci-fi mystery, the first I’ve read.
(Spacers are humans who went to colonize space.) Many of the Earthmen became Medievalists who dream of exiting the Caves of Steel and reestablish a lush green life on the surface of earth with no Spacers and no robots involved.
A spacer is killed and detective Baley is partnered up with a robot named R Daneel to solve the case.
Baley is an Earthmen who hates robots of all kinds so the case relies on two partners who don’t get along.
This was fun.
It was well suited to an audio book & the reader was good.It was a good murder mystery, although the guilty party was telegraphed early.
Still, the book wasn't primarily about that, but a look at the human condition in a crowded future.
The world retreated to urban 'caves of steel' in the face of the overwhelming population of 8 billion several thousand years in the future which just doesn't seem likely today.Anyway, it was a fun revisiting of Asimov's robot world in which I spent many a pleasant hour as child.
Mi aspettavo di più da questo famosissimo romanzo di Asimov. Il racconto è gradevole e si lascia leggere con piacere, a mio parere non è un capolavoro. Come per altri libri di Asimov (ne ho letti 7-8), ho l'impressione che la fama dell'autore faccia sempre alzare il giudizio che viene dato ai suoi libri. A mio modesto avviso, il meglio di Asimov lo si può trovare nei suoi racconti brevi sui robot, dove non ha bisogno di "allungare la zuppa" e dove l'idea e l'originalità della storia emerge con forza ed efficacia maggiori. Il mio voto: 3 stelle.
Nisam ljubitelj Asimova ali sam svojevremeno kupila Kindle izdanje zbog rada na tom naslovu za jednog izdavača... Sada sam voljna da nekom ljubitelju Asimova poklonim to Kindle izdanje ovog naslova... :) Zainteresovan čitalac treba da mi u inbox pošalje svoje imejl na koji da mu pošaljem knjigu... :)
For a long time I postponed this reading because I thought it would be sooo outdated. Ok, it was, but only just a bit, now I need to continue reading the Robot Series.
E c'è la degenerazione pericolosa di questo atteggiamento, come la resistenza ottusa (ma non troppo) rispetto ad altre alternative di evoluzione, cambiamento rispetto alla società attuale, oltre al fatto che cui l'elemento su cui si ostinano diventa un puro capro espiatorio (poveri robot), su cui vengono canalizzati rancori, emozioni più che argomentazioni logiche condivisibili, ricordando comunque alcune tendenze politiche di gruppi estremi che Asimov conosceva di certo, e da cui il mondo si stava staccando traumaticamente nel momento della pubblicazione del romanzo, cioè il 1954.
Zanimljiva detektivska prica smestena u buducnost u kojoj imamo zemljane, svemirce (potomke ljudi sa zemlje koji zive na mesecu i ostalim novootkrivenim planetima a koji su na dosta visem tehnoloskom stupnju od zemljana) i naravno robote. Ovo definitivno nije jedno od boljih Asimovljevih dela i dosta me podseca na na price iz zbirke Sabrani Roboti stim sto je malo razradjenija, taman toliko da moze biti roman. Atmosfera je cist Blade Runner, sto me je odusevilo!!!! I kada se sve uzme u obzir ocena za ovu knjigu je cista cetvorka.
Ca în orice roman de Asimov, personajele vorbesc mult, foarte mult. Și când ai senzația că au terminat ce aveau de spus, mai spun ceva. Numai că – şi este valabil pentru toate romanele scrise de Asimov – acest lucru nu dăunează deloc sănătății poveștii. Din contră… Recenzia completa pe https://anaarecarti.ro/main/cavernele...
I somehow prefer the short stories better. From an SF point of view, the novels are good - but not very good whodunits, IMO.For some weird reason, I used to picture William Shatner as Elijah Bailey and Leonard Nimoy as R. Daneel Olivaw.
Antes de esta saga había leído solo El Sol Desnudo, pero hace muchos años atrás, cuando no sabía nada del universo de Asimov.
El primer estilo de Asimov está reflejado en todo su esplendor en este libro.
Con mucha información sobre temas que no van mucho al caso, en los cuales el autor era especialista.
Como también una trama con giros y vuelcos que, después de haber leído varios libros y cuentos del mismo, no son muy sorprendentes.
En fin, todo lo que caracterizaría a este autor años posteriores, está ya aquí, a medio camino.
Creo que he leído las suficientes, del genero ficción, como para decir eso.
Dos partes que piensan y actúan conforme su sociedad.
Todo esto metido en la trama entre dos grupos: Los humanos y los robots.
Cualquier a que haya leído Los límites de la Fundación muere por leer la serie de los Robots de Asimov y lo mejor de todo es que no decepciona.
Lo que más emociona en sus novelas es saber que cada gran trama forma parte de todo un universo de ficción y que todo se relaciona.
