https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1426461.Advanced_Engineering_Mathematics
This book is why engineers hate math. I presume Kreyszig is the kind of man who responds to his children's questions with, "Because I'm the adult and I said so!" The exercises could have been generated by a monkey playing Mad Libs with numerals and notation; they reduce math to cold calculation and avoid any attempt at leading the student to discovery. There is no joy in this book.Regardless of what book your professor chooses, I suggest using Mary Boas' far more enjoyable (and just as rigorous) Mathematical Methods in the Physical Sciences.
I'm using this book as well as two other books on Engineering Mathematics by B.S Grewal and Michael 
I've found this book to be a useful reference. It is not, however, a great teaching tool. It's more of a book you go to when you know exactly what you need and just can't remember the specifics off the top of your head.
I had a long relationship with this book in collage time. (forgot on what edition) and it was a love-hate relationship :-p
Potentially decent reference, but joyless and uninvolving. I attempted to use it as an introduction to vector calculus and PDEs. It claims to be a comprehensive and thorough treatment of applied math, and it achieves this by way of thoroughly superficial exposition. It is everything that makes advanced math unwelcoming.
I used this book time and again but as far as my opinion, ease of use and preference is concerned, I prefer the book written by Arfken and Weber. Why, even Riley and Hobson's is much better at presenting the concepts.
معايا من أولي كهربا لحد التخرج أهو. ياما فك علينا مزانق. ربنا يخليك يا عم كرايزج وينجحلك المقاصد. xD
It's great how much material is covered, but it doesn't go into very much depth. It will be a great reference manual after you've learned everything from a different book.
lots of details and examples. color graphics.
Good book for ODE, PDE and Fourier analysis
best
The math content and the problem sets are challenging enough to make me feel like I'm getting my money's worth so I'm thankful for that.
But the book is written to spoon-feed students and I really dislike that in a textbook.
The use of bold, italic and reminders in parenthesis coupled to exclamation points is superfluous.
In my opinion, sentence structure and grammar should indicate to the thoughtful reader what is important.
I remember my nice, dry physics textbooks from undergrad studies being more enjoyable because they made me think as I read.
This math book reminds me of shallow, distracting, ADD-enhancing billboards.
nothing
i think this is the bible of maths and i m reading this book from first semester and this is my sixth semester and this is last semester in which i will read it.Although i still did not buy it but i recommend all engineering frieds to buy it because my uni had give me one copy as a prize to me haha hahaha haha haha ahaha haha ha ha
I like math, but I didn't like this book. I didn't like how the topics were explained and I didn't like the examples. But I guess it will come in handy if I need to look up something I've already learned.
Author comes across as too impressed with himself rather than properly relaying the information; thus, the practice problems are ridiculous and the explanations slim on material. I did learn Gaussian Elimination though...lol
Excellent mathematics book covering many topics. A must on the shelf of any engineer (and scientist?)
A classic mathematical tome. The book Lisbeth Salander would have in her hand bag (although she would probably have a satchel).
slightly helpful if u are into programming competitions. helpful in general. okay okay for self-reference ...
mmmm
good
Quite good at explaining vector calculus.
if u want to be advance in mathemathic n kill your self in confuse time just try to read this book slowly...
worst mathematics book i have ever seen .. it is not a good teaching tool !!
...
wana red this booook
great book
