https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/43781.Merrick
OMFG this one was so good. It was a breath of fresh air from the usually Victorian or New Orleans settings of her other novels. We get to go to the jungle AND we get so see some ghost shit through a jade mask? Are you friggin' kidding me, that's awesome! I'm glad Rice finally touched on a non-caucasian character, because her character lineup thus far seemed whiter than milk.Read this.Seriously.I am not even joking.Don't make me cut you.Kidding. [Not kidding]
Decepcionante ... 548 hojas perdidas D:  Y "Crepúsculo" Renacer de Claudia Gray no era lo peor que se ha escrito sobre vampiros Recuerdo cuando allá por el 2008, tomando un certamen a los de primero de Licenciatura como flamante ayudante universitaria, me acomodé en el asiento del profesor y me puse a leer "Sangre y oro". El pavor que sentí al leer que el magnífico y soberbio Marius (un patricio romano con mezcla bárbara, quien cuenta con más de dos milenios de existencia) se maquillaba por las
El pavor que sentí al leer que el magnífico y soberbio Marius (un patricio romano con mezcla bárbara, quien cuenta con más de dos milenios de existencia) se maquillaba por las noches para ir a bailar/cazar a una disco, mató todo mi amor por Anne Rice e hizo que me arrepintiera amargamente de haber comprado TODOS los libros de su Saga vampirica.
Yo amé con mi vida "Entrevista con el vampiro", precisamente, por todo lo que no posee este libro.¡Ah!
David Talbot, newly turned vampire, recounts his meeting and subsequent relationship with Merrick, while he was a member of the Talamasca.The novel outlines Merrick's family history and her powers, while dealing with the present day: Louis is miserable because others have seen the spirit of Claudia, his erstwhile vampire child, and he has not.
He asks David to request Merrick to conjure the spirit of Claudia so that he may see for himself.
The pace of the story did pick up near the end at least, but in general I don't think it adds much to the series.I think I'll take a break from the series for a while.
It's emphasized repeatedly and in many ways how powerful a witch Merrick is; but she never really does anything much more than reading minds (a trick which even the weakest vampires could achieve with the Mind Gift).That aside, it's heralded as the "blending of the stories of the mayfairs and the vampires," but neither story is really present in this book.
You get countless descriptions of her imbibing of rum, of the texture of the fabric on her bodice, of her breasts and hair; and suddenly you realize you must backtrack to remember what's going on in the story.That said, I'd advise you to skip this book and move on to Blood and Gold (which is well worth the read).
After the abominations that were Lasher and The Vampire Armand, I had almost decided to give up on Anne Rice.
This short tale of voodoo and spirits stands with the best in Rice’s most famous work.Acting as a shake-up in this long series, this book introduces in full the reader to Merrick, a young woman with an interesting past and a talent for witchcraft.
The narrator of this novel is David Talbot, one of my favorite Rice characters.
Though this novel severely lacks Lestat de Lioncourt, that is made up for with the interactions between David and Louis, and Merrick too.I simply had a helluva good time with this book.
There are two books in the vampire series I hold higher than the others; Merrick and Queen of the Damned.
The story of Merrick and David is a great addition and brings David alive as one of the vampire family.
What a wonderful addition to the family we get in Merrick as well.
I also love the story of David in this book.
Davids mortal years are explained in this story and his history with the Talamasca.
A great read!
This book also hints at the history of the Mayfairs and the inevitable combining of the two stories.
Review to come
He has known her since she joined the order as a child and knows her long, powerful and often frightening history.But that history may be why she can do what Louis needs and call on Claudia’s ghost to confirm for him whether the child vampire has reached a peaceful afterlife or suffers as a ghost.
To do this he contacts David who in turn calls on a contact he has in the Talamasca, Merrick.And then tells us her life story in excruciating detailI think it’s a good thing vampires don’t eat, because every time they ordered a pizza they’d have to pause to have an epic monologue on the delivery boy’s history.
Much of the book delves into reminiscing about the past and the last three hundred pages or so, it finally tried to lurch into action and falls flat on its face, like a flan in a cupboard.You don't feel for the main characters either - all of the known characters act terribly out of their usual canon, or are exaggerated to extremes.
In hindsight, for some, it was also an early peek at the Mayfair family, and it would have been wise for Rice to have delved more into this, rather than what she did in the first place.
After the first 3 books in the Vampire Chronicles, Merrick is the next dearest tale to my heart. Tying together her beloved vampires and beloved witches, producing such a gorgeous, full and sensuous story. To see my Louis again, to watch his doomed love affair with Merrick unfold was absolutely exquisite! I tore through this book, I was so voracious in my adoration. An all-time favorite, for sure!
raising the dead from a spot of blood, severed limbs, burnt flesh, and the revival of life from being burned is all pretty creepy.
I love Anne's witch chronicles and the further development of Merrick was great, but the magic of the witch chronicles was lost.
Louis wanting to call Claudia up from the dead...meh.once again I slumbered through a majority of this due to the immense amount of description.
(Anne loves to describe old Victorian decor.) I was hoping for the ending to pack a heavy punch like Anne has done in previous works.
This punch was merely a small slap.
In this book the Mayfair witches, and the Vampires come together at last through Merrick a very powerful witch. This is fast paced, and I love that we get to spend a little bit of time with Louis whom I love so much! This truly is a great read!
The rest is at [ NMR ]: So far I didn't know Anne to be able to refrain from describing countless of art pieces her characters encounter in Vampire Chronicles, but here it is. Merrick is a fairly easy read in many a sense. Maybe it is because David Talbot told it. Maybe because it was spun around Mayfair witch and archaeology, two topics I delight in. Or maybe just because it's getting better by the book. Unlike Armand’s story, this wasn’t filled with descriptions of paintings, and architecture.
]: So far I didn't know Anne to be able to refrain from describing countless of art pieces her characters encounter in Vampire Chronicles, but here it is.
Maybe it is because David Talbot told it.
Or maybe just because it's getting better by the book.
In fact, I feel like this was the first book in Vampire Chronicles that I encountered, where details were spared for the reader by sparing the reader (mind you, details aren’t always bad, I’m just saying that it makes it hard sometimes to sift through them, and all things must have balance).
Nobody writes the myth of the vampire better than Anne Rice...Aspects of this book are truly beautiful but I have one criticism of the writing which I have never come across in any of her other novels.
The actual story mentioned in the blurb and the one I think is the motivation for many people picking this book up, did not truly begin until page 360.
I think the blurb on the back is very misleading because of this.Overall, it took me a long time to get though this book but it was still enjoyable as I said at the beginning of this review nobody writes the vampire like Anne Rice.
Every so often I work my way through this series again and I found myself reading the Vampire Chronicles for about the fifth time, as a friend of mine who had never read any of Ms. Rice’s work asked me to ‘buddy read’ them with her.
The last few months have been fun, bringing up memories from the other times I’ve read them, plus now creating new ones with our ‘buddy read’.I can’t believe I had never left a review for any of these books before, but sometimes I get so caught up in reading that I forget to leave a review.
I always enjoy the vampire books, but I would have enjoyed this one more if it hadn't mentioned Merrick's boobs quite so often.
It felt divided: scenes involving Merrick and David on the one side, and then Louis and David on the other, and of course, a stone faced Lestat in his own world (which begs the question- why even have Lestat make presence if he contributes next to nothing as character).
But alas, the reader must wait 100 pages, roughing through pages on end of Merrick's bosom descriptions (a faint reminder of Rice's lush erotic writing days of yore.
And for this, I give the 3 stars, because the story really picks up the last 100 pages and feels like there were scenes that could have been placed at the start.
Hmn. On the one hand, I think the writing, the prose itself, in Merrick is a return to form.
Rice is known for her insanely purple prose, and I think it works in this one as it did in Interview.
I also love the framing plot, with Louis and David approaching a witch to help raise Claudia' ghost.
Characters, particularly Louis, Lestat, and David (you know, the ones you actually care about), actively subvert their previous characterizations, which I found frustrating.
I wish more of the book had been given to developing the framing plot, period.
I'm reading the Vampire Chronicles because a good friend gave me Prince Lestat as a present and I feel an obligation to the characters and the ongoing story to read them all before reading that.
This book does not have a whole lot of plot or story to it, it does have a whole of yawn-worthy talking and lengthy descriptions of flowers and other foliage in New Orleans.
Big yawn!When Lestat eventually wakes up on page 338, just like he did towards the very end of The Vampire Armand, then the important plot line picks up once again and something actually groundbreaking happens.Here's hoping that the next one, Blood And Gold, is better.
In her mesmerizing new novel, the author of The Vampire Chronicles and the saga of the Mayfair Witches demonstrates once again her gift for spellbinding storytelling and the creation of myth and magic.
She is a descendant of the gens de couleur libres, a society of New Orleans octoroons and quadroons steeped in the lore and ceremony of voodoo, who reign in the shadowy world where African and French--the dark and the white--intermingle.
It is he who recounts Merrick's haunting tale--a tale that takes us from the New Orleans of past and present to the jungles of Guatemala, from the Maya ruins of a century ago to ancient civilizations not yet explored.
This book was of the same high caliber I've come to expect of the series.
As much as I grew to love David and Merrick, the fact that (view spoiler)[ Louis pretty much stole the affections of Merrick after the long tale of how she and David fell for one another  (hide spoiler)] grew my disdain for him.
(view spoiler)[ I found myself wishing he had succeeded in killing himself so that we could finally move on from his nonsense.
(hide spoiler)]All of that aside, it was a pleasant read and I look forward to the next chapter in the series.
I always love any book I read from Anne Rice.
I read this one expecting it to follow along with the Mayfair Witches.
Whenever I read it long enough though, I found myself getting lost in the lyrical quality of the writing, as Anne Rice is great at.
This is a great book to read maybe after you've gone through the Mayfair series and the Lestat series.
Since I haven't read the Lestat books, I was a bit lost.
Great story, great book.
Now it makes me want to read the Mayfair Witches all over again!
Not a terrible book but not a terribly good one neither...to be honest since Memnoch the Devil with 
In typical Anne Rice fashion, the story grabbed me from page 1. She combines some of the characters and story-lines of both the Mayfair Witches and Vampire Chronicles into one delicious tale that I simply could not put down once I started it. I finished it way too soon (as is the case with most books I love) and I cannot wait to start the next book in the series, Blackwood Farm.Anne Rice's enduring love for her characters and for the city of New Orleans comes shining through as always.
I don't like it at all. This is by far the worst book in the VC series.
So I liked David in the Body Thief and I really hoped that him and Lestat would get together, but in typical Rice fashion, none of the homosexual energy is ever abated, so of course they didn't.
Rice, I know you hate fanfics, but seriously, you leave us all wanting some sexual tension to end at some point in time, and it never does!) Maybe that's why the books are so sexy, yet nothing ever happens.
Armand seemed really crazy, especially with taking Claudia's head off and sewing on the body of that female vampire Louis made (flashback to book #1).
The story of Merrick was written by David Talbot the newest vampire that roams the Earth with Louis and a depressed Lestat.
But this book is about the life of the powerful witch Merrick Mayfair and how she will bring back Claudia to Louis.
But Louis found out about this episode and lives in much more torture thinking that her spirit is not at rest.That's why he asked David to implore Merrick to help him, to bring Claudia's ghost at least for a moment so he himself can ask her if she is where she should be, resting in the universe that starts after one's death.
Imagine you have tickets to see a Rolling Stones concert and you discover they'll be doing it with Korn.
This is roughly how I feel about Merrick, which is a book which contains the plot of Louis confronting Claudia's ghost.
The rest of the book is about Merick and David Talbot, who are a strange flamboyant pair of people who get to know one another while tying the Vampire Chronicles to the Mayfair Witches.
The problem is Merrick and even David aren't that interesting compared to Louis.
So, it's a nice Korn concert book but I was hoping for the Stones.
as always, I love little mixed witches and their demons.
http://thriftbookish.blogspot.com/201...5 stars ★ ★ ★ ★★Witches and vampires oh my~Merrick is book #7 in The Vampire Chronicles series written by Anne Rice.   In the next installment of The Vampire Chronicles series, Merrick , we resume after The Vampire Armand after Lestat has awoken from his slumber however, it was only temporary and again returned to his convent to slumber aimlessly without word or movement.After feeling abandoned from Lestat, his fledgling, Louis becomes somewhat lost and de
In the continuance of my #YearofAnneRice I had to make a decision if I wanted to read the Lives of the Mayfair Witches trilogy before reading Merrick or not, although I knew it wasn't "required" I did know that there are some cross overs from the Mayfair Witches trilogy with The Vampire Chronicles series..
However, due to my slow reading skills and the size of the Mayfair Witches series there would be no time for me to reach my deadline to finish the rest of The Vampire Chronicles books.
