https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/574045.Ariel_Custer
I was on a Grace Livingston Hill kick a while back and read several of her novels. They are always quaint and old-fashioned, sometimes a little preachy, but almost always a nice relaxing read.
I remember this book fondly, though I don't remember it well.
Hill, Grace Livingston
What we have here is a community where Ariel comes to live - and a whole lot of people who are in her world, who interact with her, and tell her story through their eyes.
And poor Emily whose story this really is by the end.While it's an unusual method for telling the story, there's plenty of thrill, lots of moments where you become so frustrated with the evil of the gossipy and harsh person of Judson's mother.
Still good triumphs in the end, making this a beautiful story, and one to enjoy more than once.
In her horror of being alone in a large city, she accidentally steps out in front of a passing bicycle, and is rescued by a young man named Jud Granniss.
The story is full of all kinds of sorrow for these two young people, as well as for their friend, Emily.
There is some humor in it from Buddy, the little boy next door with the dog named Stubby, and some pathos in the person of Harriett Granniss, Jud's mother.
Good story, with some historic facts thrown in regarding the Travelers' Aid Society.
Sweet book by Mrs. Hill.
This one is supposed to be based on a real happening, but I do not know the story it was based on.
The widow is not a good companion for her, as she is bossy and mean to the woman, but the widow's son shows some sympathy for her, and finally they become friends.Suddenly, the little woman does something completely out of character, and it makes life very difficult for a while for the widow and her son.
Grace Livingston Hill wrote many books before her death in 1947. Her books are good, clean, and safe. This book is an easy read. The author manipulated the plot way too much, but all in all it was an okay read.
Sappiest and silliest GLH I have read. And that is saying a lot!
Wow! I thoroughly enjoyed this book. So pleasant and clean and filled with lessons we could all learn from in day to day life. Definitely a classic and very well written. I wanted to take my time with this book but I also wanted to find out what happened in the end. So sad it's over!
Despite the title, this book is really about two women - Ariel Custer and Emily Dillon. The second almost playing a larger part than the first. That being said, it’s a great storyline fraught with much intrigue, close encounters, and a surprise ending. Enjoy!
*Review Coming Soon*
I read this story as a teen, one of the few romance stories that I liked, as it is also a mystery.
I recently re-read it, wanting to revisit the cranky old Harriett Granniss character, wondering how she got to be as critical and cranky as she was.
I remember when I originally read this, the surprise ending "got me," but this time around, I was expecting it and saw more clues for it along the way.My mom says she gets tired of these Grace Livingston Hill books because the good people are always so good and the bad people are always so bad.
Rather strange ending to this one. Totally unexpected plot twists!
