https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/824844.Return_from_Tomorrow
*This review may contain spoilers*I picked this up because I really enjoy reading about people who have had near death experiences.
I find it so interesting how different these experiences are for people, and it's not just the "light" that they see.
He had a travel experience and a visit with Christ.
At first I was amazed and couldn't wait to read on, but the feel was off.
This experience went on for what seems like forever, yet he was only dead for 9 minutes.
Then, there's the remembrance he has to a cafe he'd never been to, but went to in his travels during the NDE.
The author dies of influenza at a military hospital and goes to the other side. I read this years ago, but I still remember the harrowing scene where substance-abusing addict-spirits were crawling all over humans participating in the activities the spirits craved to mortally do -- e.g., drinking, drugging, sexing, etc. -- trying to get some sort of "energy hit" from their unknowing mortal proxies. It's a sobering thought to consider that whatever desires control you in this life will pass on with you to the other side; i.e., what goes around comes around.
The near death experience the author recounts in Return from Tomorrow corresponds with the messages behind The Tibetan Book of the Dead, The Egyptian Book of the Dead, the Mystery religions of ancient Greece and Egypt, and countless other near death experiences documented since earliest times.In the case of the author of Return from Tomorrow, the psychopomp (http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Psychopomp ) or Benevolent Deity who accompanied his time on the bardo, assumed the form of Jesus, following the author's own mental thought forms.
I think it rather sad when I see people using this nde as validation for the righteous exclusity of their own faith.
This 'near death experience' book, while fascinating in it's telling, also has a remarkably poignant message about what is truly important in this life.
And I've read a couple of these books that lead me to believe that it isn't exactly the same for everyone.
This book in particular leaves one wanting to strengthen relationships, spend time and life motivation on things and people that matter in the long run, and really wanting to improve oneself as a human being.
I think it's the kind of book that could be important to pick up every couple of years just as a reminder.
For instance, was I focused on Christ and helping others feel His Love when I was cleaning my home and preparing to host book group at my house yesterday?
He becomes aware that those spirits can leave that area at any time, but their pride and fear of having other spirits hear their horrible thoughts keeps them in that place around others with similar thoughts and feelings.George Ritchie's experience changes his entire outook on life.
He has more compassion and a desire to help those around him that he changes his future career to strive to help others feel the Savior's Love for them.
I would recommend this book to anyone interested in war, peace and meaning in life.Ritchie was with the US Army when he met a man at the liberation of the Nazi concentration camps.
Then the prisoner tells this story:He was a Jew with a family who witnessed the Nazis shoot them all dead in front of his home.
He thought that if he did otherwise he would lose his sanity.His decision to forgive the soldiers followed by his commitment to doing this with every single person he ever met was the secret to his radiant health after 5 years in a Nazi death camp.This book is non-religious spirituality at it's best.
I wonder how many copies of The Book of Mormon he was offered in his lifetime.
Knowing our habits & addictions follow us to the hereafter, I can just see myself trying to grab a Mt. Dew out of a mortal's hands, hehe.
~ Dr. George RitchieI was trying to explain this concept in a letter recently; too bad I hadn't read the book then.
It is interesting also, this book was written in 1978 & the copy I read was published in 2003, in it's 32nd printing!
A friend's husband borrowed it through inter-library loan from the Brigham Young University - Idaho David O.
McKay Library.
I went to Peru to pick up my father in Peru after his helicopter crash.
Among his personal effects was this book.
My Dad likely bought it at the airport.
He must have known that his time was up.
I do not know if he read it or not.It took me many years to want to feel like reading this.
It has changed how I think and feel about Heaven.
This is a must read if you are curious about what will happen to us after we die.
I have read several other books on near death experiences.
This isn't my typical type of book, but I thought it interesting to hear what this man saw in his eight minutes of death. Strangely, it all seemed to make sense. I believe what he says he saw was the afterlife. What I particularly liked about the book, though, was the feelings he felt in the presence of Christ and how he could feel that again in people who had Christ in them. Makes me want to try to be a better person--and see other people that way as well.
LOVED this book. I would highly recommend it and will read it again and again. I've always been fascinated with stories of near-death experiences (partially because my mom had one), but this is the most unusual and moving one I've read.
Here are excerpts:One of my favorite books on the subject of Near-Death Experiences (NDEs) is 'Return from Tomorrow' by George Ritchie.
Then when they lost that body, except when they could briefly take possession of another one, they would be cut off for all eternity from the one thing they could never stop craving." Or at least not until they were healed sometime in the future.In my opinion, what George Ritchie is describing is the act of being possessed, if only for a limited period of time, by another spirit being.
Not sure what I think. A story of what one man experienced when he died and then came back to life. He seemed to be sad throughout his telling of what happened.
It gives one a lot to think about and I was very touched by this man's experience of dying and coming back to life and how he at first tried to push it out of his life, but eventually embraced it and let it teach him and guide the rest of his life.
Helms was humble, friendly and thought about others rather than himself.
He writes: "It was Christ who all this time had been looking at me out of Jack Helms' eyes.
He was overwhelmingly and everywhere Present, no that no other time could even exist where He was." I really enjoyed this book.
Almost the entire book is the account of Richie's experience where he was dead for nine minutes at the age of 20, in 1943, while in an army hospital suffering from double pneumonia.
Richie's books contains vivid accounts of the realms or dimensions he was shown which correspond to our ideas of hell, purgatory, the astral realm, and heaven.
The two most important concepts Richie took away from the experience were his reaction to the question by Jesus, "What have you done with your life to show me?
This book is very readable at only 124 pages, but contains wisdom that is life changing.
I did enjoy the easy read, the overall story and his thoughts on life at the end (loving others and making our time here an enjoyable one).
Did his "spirit" leave his body, walk with Christ and then return to his body?
I'm guessing he told this story many times before he ended up writing it down (or told it to the co-author of this book.
Fever's will mess you up.I can't debunk everything he said, but that doesn't mean we need to jump to "my soul left my body and walked with Christ through the afterlife".
He also describes the feelings of utter peace and love while in the presence of the Son of God. As he takes in all these incredible happenings, he makes connections between what took place during these various people's lives and what they are experiencing now.
I not only enjoyed the story--a bit different than some others I've read--but the life principles gave me something to think about and put to use.
This is a quick read, which is good because you probably won't be able to put it down until you get to the end anyway!**Added bonus--This was an Amazon freebie!
And I can't believe that my teacher was allowed to read such a religious book in a public school!
He dies, experiences a bunch of crazy stuff, then comes back to life.Here is a part that scared me, particularly - the dead spirits would all stand around and watch people getting drunk in bars.
I was so freaking scared of losing my soul, that I never got drunk even once in 6th grade.Since it was 6th grade that I read this, that could be slightly inaccurate to how it really happens in the book.
This book confirms to me everything that I believe about life after death and the all-encompassing love of Jesus Christ.
Interestingly, although the author is NOT a member of my faith, it coincides with what my church teaches and with passages in the Book of Mormon: Another Testament of Jesus Christ (read Alma 40-42).
Reading this has reopened my heart to trying to be less critical and more loving to all of my fellow souls on our life's journey, but especially to my family.
The main message is to live as Christ would have us live--with unconditional love.Highly, highly recommended to everyone.
This was such a good book.
I read the first 100 pages in a day and then it took me til the next weekend to finish the last 24 pages.
It was so inspiring to read how he describes his experience of meeting Christ and the love he felt near him.
It really makes me want to also feel Christ's love and want to be close to him.
It was really a very eye opening book.
His experience is something that is closely related to my own beliefs of the afterlife.
I loved this book and would highly recommend it to anyone.
This is a book I loved... I read it as a teenager in the 80's. I would be interested to read it again after having more life experience. I felt the story of life beyond this life (discovered by someone who "dies" on the operating table... has otherworldly experience, then is revived and able to share those experiences and insights) fit pretty well with my personal beliefs of life after this life.
So, this is my first taste of "life after death" literature. I breezed through this book in two hours. I found myself truly curious as to the meaning of his experience and amazed at the man he became because of it. Nothing he described contradicted what I believe, and although I probably won't go around teaching what he saw as fact, I believe the lessons he applied to his life were truly of merit. He learned to love people as God does, and who can argue with that?
This was a fascinating little book! I was hoping for more of an explination on the things he saw in his NDE but since it is a real story he can't pretend to understand things he doesn't. This book will make you look at the world with new eyes. It will make your heart soften to those it was set hard against, and will make you want to be friendly to all you encounter!
Interesting story. The second near death experience story I have read (read the message last month). Different authors in different settings, different backgrounds and religions -- and very similar experiences. Made me appreciate my faith all the more and examine my relationship with Christ.
Great book. Thoroughly enjoyed it. This is the story of a man who died and came back. Sounds basic, but his is a good story worth reading. Reminds me of how powerful the love of the Savior is. A must read.
This was very interesting and thought provoking. It went along with many things that I believe in, wish I had someone to discuss this one with. It is one to read again and even own.
After death experience during WWII. I reread it periodically. I love this book.
Cassidy LindbergEnglish, 3December book review In the book “Return From Tomorrow” by George G. Ritchie is a book about George. He was in the military and during his basic training he became extremely ill. By the scientific definition of death, he died. It talked about his “out of body” experience, the things he saw, and the people he met while he was dead. He came back to life and continued to join the military, become a doctor, and a therapist. He told one of his patients the story about his ex
He came back to life and continued to join the military, become a doctor, and a therapist.
His patient was very sick and was preparing to die so George thought if he told him the story, he might feel a little better about dying.
I think an important word in this book was death.
I think it was an important word in the book because for many people the word is scary because of all the unknown of it.
But in the book, George wasn’t afraid to die.
When I think about death, it makes the tone more serious and take it to heart.
Return From Tomorrow, by George Ritchie, is a novel about the author's near death experience. It is written as a story told to one of the authors patients, who was suffering from lung cancer. Ritchie tells about how he went down with pneumonia in a military base in texas, and later died. The meat of the story is his experience out of body, and what he sees. He claims to be accompanied by Jesus, and the story details what he learns from him. He experiences 3 different tiers of heaven, and is tau
Return From Tomorrow, by George Ritchie, is a novel about the author's near death experience.
The central idea of this novel is the love and light Ritchie explains emmenated off of Jesus.
This is a question Jesus asks Ritchie at various points in the book.
He initially guesses this is what Jesus is asking, however, Jesus continues to repeat the question throughout the book.
Eventually Ritchie understands that Jesus was asking what he had done in his life to serve the lord.
This is really the takeaway from the book, that and how much love Jesus has for us, as that is also spoken about frequently.
I'm a sucker for stories of the hereafter, but after reading this allegedly true-life account, I'm going to call BS.
Leaving that aside, scientifically speaking, I'm also quite surprised that Ritchie never experienced brain damage from his death experience.
Allegedly, he was gone for nine minutes, yet the brain begins to die after roughly two minutes (or sometimes a tad more, if hypothermia occurs) and he should have emerged with some form of brain damage.
My only guess is that while the doctors were working on him, his brain received just enough oxygen to stave off any damage, but that's just a guess.This kind of novel is really preaching to the choir.
And hope one day it becomes a film.
If this book were to be made a film one day for the world to see !
I would really hope the parts of Wild Bill are included in the film because there is so much hate in the world currently in 2018.
Wild Bill saw it first hand and he learned to forgive those that were full of hate and he easily could have let it overtake him and fill his heart with vengeance but choose a harder path and forgive those and have compassion for them.
It’s easy to hate but it’s harder to Love and that’s why so many of us are blind to see Christ.
