https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/13100033-if-this-goes-on
2-2.5 stars. Read as a nominee for Best Novella in the 1941 Retro Hugo Awards.
It was okay, but started in one direction and ended differently than I thought the book might go. It follows the exploits of our hero and the regime change ongoing around him. Typical of the writing of the time, there are a few outdated stereotypes that glare out during the reading. It is somewhat reflective of society in the 1960's.Have a GoodReads.
This was a very early example of a theocratic dystopia (published 1940) and this might explain why although a good part of the future History series, this story just didn't feel as it fit in as well as most of the other stories did. This story can be read on its own, or as part of Heinlein's Future History collection.No. 19 in the Future History series
Much more coherent in the original Astounding version, though a crucial bit was obviously censored. The book version was to some extent a repudiation of the original with, of course, some gratuitous sex.
Приятна и доста плашеща книжка за това какво ще стане, ако в Щатите се възцари религиозно управление.
Book #19 out of #22. This was Heinlein's first published novel, released in 1940. This is densely huge and a really brutal read. It was amazing, but droneish at the same time. Deals with tons of shit: Religious themes, Police-states, Sexual discovery, and Revolution!The best way to read this is to get the collection "Revolt in 2100" which contains books #19 #20 and #21. (If this goes on, Coventry, and Misfits.).Highly recommended! This is the seeming climax of the entire Future History series (or at least what the past #1-#18 stories were leading to)!
There’s three major arcs in his story, the first of man’s journey in space, the second is life on the moon, and finally Earth’s politics a couple hundred years in the future.
If this goes on--- begins the third major arc, and it is actually one of the more interesting arcs, and yet one of the (hopefully) most unrealistic.
Rather than just have a series of battles, the revolution is actually a multi-faceted affair where direct conflict is to be avoided.
Imagine that, when fighting a larger number, you should avoid conflict.
As a polemic against religious extremism it still holds up well, but it tends to trip over its own feet, because it also supports extremism in other directions.
Another story in the above-mentioned collection acts as a nice counter-balance to this one: Coventry tells of the actions of man who, after being banished from civil society, discovers a plot against it and risks his life to warn of the danger, thus redeeming himself.
Taken together as a form of Yang and Yin, the clear message comes through: the actions of individuals will always matter.
A good story, but not one of Heinlein's best. If you're looking to back-fill your Heinlein reads, this is worthwhile.
I got a little scared how real this fiction book is in our times in Brazil.
