https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/316876.The_Chronicles_of_Amber
The machinations of Corwin's family are the driving force of the story and we get to watch as Corwin peels away lair after lair.
Suffice to say, Zelazny is quite a story teller and I'm approaching the final novel in this volume with a sense of anticipation I haven't felt since the last volume of The Dark Tower wound up in my mailbox years ago.The Courts of Chaos: Who stabbed Corwin in the dark?
All of these questions and more are answered in this, the final book of The First Chronicles of Amber.Zelazny took the aspects of Farmer's World of Tiers he liked the most, namely the immortal family endlessly conspiring against one another and the amnesiac hero, and ran with it.
It baffled me that this book gets praised so highly to the extent that I keep going back to read reviews to try to find out how people could possibly like this.
In one line the protagonist sounds like your average American, then two lines later you get "How fare you, brother?" and "how goes the world with thee?" Amidst all this you get the distinct sense that this is a cast of characters out of Seinfeld.
Corwin asks his brother how it's possible that Eric knows about their attack.
These are wonderful reads and have a personality all their own.This is a fantasy not to be missed.
The first series is superior, but they are both good reads.Should I give any details?
The characters in this series are complete, true to themselves, and detailed without a lot of wordy description getting in the way of the story.
I'd say that the books (the story) is plot driven, but I don't want to mislead.
It in many ways is both character and plot driven.
While the second series is the weaker of the two it to is enjoyable and worth reading.Okay..no spoilers.
Of course, it takes a lot of time to travel between them (and plenty of people are fond of complaining about it, too).In Amber, characters travel between these majestic locations like you and I might walk from one street block to the next.
There is a LOT of talking, and while it is usually spaced out well, near the middle there is so much, trying to establish who is friends with who, what happened to what, etc.By the end of the book, I loved the narrator, adored the city of Amber, felt like I personally knew the various princes and princesses of the city, and sorely wished I had more.
The action and excitement begin right away and you as the reader are as in the dark as the protagonist is who begins by awakening in hospital with no memory of who he is or how he got there.
This is an excellent way to introduce the reader to the complexity of this fantastic world and the intrigue that might otherwise threaten to overwhelm if a more conventional introduction technique were employed.I normally like to break up a series by reading other books in between even when they are collected in a single volume but I found I just couldn't in this case.
Corey tells the story and since he doesn’t know anything about what’s going on, neither do we.
(Here’s hoping I got hold of the correct phrase) Maybe it will tie in later, but right now it just felt like an easy way out after he had painted himself into a corner.This isn’t really anything to do with the story, but my copy is chock-full of typos.
It got really distracting.I’m going to give this three stars, mostly because of what I just mentioned and because I still have lots of questions about what exactly is going on.
But by the time you put all five together, you have one hell of a great story that deserves no less than 5 stars.I've heard great things about the Amber series for years, and I finally broke down and tried them.
I can see that this will be a series that I will need to read again someday, as its multiple layers will show things through a re-read that might have been overlooked the first time through.The other thing I can say for sure is that I will be looking to read the Second Chronicles soon.
Corwin is determined to usurp his brother's rule and sets about building an army.After the first book, which managed to go from memory loss, to walking the Pattern, to all out war in such a brief time, I quickly came to understand that nothing would be as I expected – including the motivations of each of the siblings and their companions.
fuuuhhh….Side note: The book focuses mainly on Corwin and his interactions with his male companions and brothers.
I actually bought the The Great Book of Amber, which includes ten stories within this world.
On the plus side The Chronicles of Amber has an interesting universe and an epic scope, but on the other hand Zelazny's unimpressive writing and inability to breathe life into that universe means that the series becomes a slog.Right off the bat the protagonist Corwin wakes up with amnesia- cliché to the extreme, but let's be charitable.
What should be a fun and creative series to read is instead overwhelmingly bland.
It's true, his thoughts doesn't even move the plot forward a bit, these pages would have been left out from the book.The world of Amber could have been nice and interesting but Zelazny instead of elaborating it and make the reader to be interested in it just wrote extremely boring and repetitive junk about shifting the shapes in Shadows, and aimless empty dialogues between Corwin and his siblings.Okay, many of the readers pointed out that it was written in the seventies, therefore this book is a bit slow and strange for a first time reader.
I think it’s because for Corwin, amnesia isn’t a convenient escape from a sinister and troubling world (as it is for nearly every other amnesiac or otherwise cognitively deficient hero in books and movies); it’s an unwanted exile from reality, in a very literal sense.
He’s like the Philip Marlowe of epic fantasy adventures: cunning, violent, and mostly amoral, at least at first.It’s the interplay of these two elements, the fantastical world of Amber and its shadows, along with the pragmatic, incongruous and occasionally heroic Corwin, that makes the Chronicles of Amber so fascinating.
I actually remember being depressed for several days after I have finished the book for the first time because it was so good, I wished I could forget the plot to be able to read it as if for the first time… if that makes any sense.As the series have been published for a while now I have come across countless plot descriptions and reviews many of which, in my opinion, do not even begin to cover the brilliance of the universe.
For me, this series started stronger than it finished.
Zelazny set up quite a number of interesting conflicts, which then resolved much too suddenly.
I wanted to spend more time with the other family members, see more of the inhabitants of the Courts of Chaos, know more about Dara and her motives.
But then Zelazny seems to hit a groove again, and we get these delightful, cracking moments.
For expample, Dara's first introduction: she corners the bemused hero and insists he fence with her before treating him to a picnic lunch, and weasles a crash course on all things Amber out of him.
This was the edition that unlocked my mind and utterly destroyed my sense of self. In the reading of these books I became Corwin and in many ways I never left Amber.
საბოლოო ჯამში მაინც 5.ჯიგარი ხარ, როჯერ
Echo de menos que hoy en día ya no se lleven este tipo de historias, con una magia más libre, y más centradas en la aventura que en la acción, política e intrigas (y sexo y violencia).La única pega que le veo a su narrativa (aparte de algunos aspectos de la narración que creo que son más obra del traductor que del autor) son las descripciones de los viajes por la Sombra.
Aunque al usar un sistema de magia bastante libre se podría pensar que se va sacando las ideas de la manga sobre la marcha, me da la sensación de que lo tenía todo estructurado desde el principio.La otra pega que le podría poner es el papel de la mujer en el libro.
From the outset, the reader is pulled into action and intrigue.The original series spanned five books.
These five are sufficient to complete the Chronicles of Amber, but if you enjoyed them, you may as well enjoy the latter five books (however, my personal favorites are the original five of the series).My favorite book of the series, without a doubt, is The Guns of Avalon.
Wow. I refuse to tell you anything about it, except that I had to read it IMMEDIATELY after reading Nine Princes in Amber (a stupendous cliff-hanger - wow Zelazny shamelessly pulled out all the stops there!!).
Амбер је, ако ништа друго, посебан.
Генијално поигравање савременим и митолошким уткано у један посебан свет, несличан уобичајеном епско-фантастичном стереотипу и све то приповедано у правом лицу.
Сјајна динамика (мада на моменте се све успорава превише за мој укус), одлична карактеризација, глад за откривањем мистерије током свих пет књига (разводњавање при крају).
Ипак, као што сам рекао, очекивао сам неко ултимативно дело које ће засенити све што сам икад прочитао у овом жанру(детињасто, признајем, али кад год се поведе прича о делу које највише оставља утисак, чују се хорски усклици "Амбер").
Посетете отново Амбър, загадъчна земя на приключения и романтика. Амбър, единственият истински свят. Всички останали светове, дори и Земята, са само негови Сенки - „Хрониките на Амбър – том 1” от Роджър Зелазни! Прочетете ревюто на "Книжни Криле": https://knijnikrile.wordpress.com/201...
Page 360 abandonedSo I read parts 1 and 2, and I'm around halfway, but I don't want to do it anymore.
Part 2 went back to slow again and dragged most of the way through.
I did really like a few elements of this book, the writing style was strange but the language used was interesting with a lot of words I've never heard of.
I would have been happy to find out more about the other siblings, especially the sisters as they are barely mentioned, only really in a derogatory way.
I really tried, but my eyes have just been falling off the pages.
This is more of a middle-of-the-road 2.5 rather than a 2/5.This, after Leiber's Nehwon series, is another fantasy classic which I just can't appreciate nor recommend.I think the biggest problem with these books is that Zelazny decided to tell the story from the perspective of a single character.
Corwin isn't a bad protagonist, but the problem is that his initial amnesia (not a big spoiler, so keep those pitchforks away) forces at least a third of the entire span of these books to be exposition.
I first read Nine Princes In Amber, the first book in the Amber Chronicles, when I was in my teens.
It obviously left enough of an impression for me to remember the author’s name and promise myself to finish the series...one day.Nine Princes in Amber opens with the protagonist escaping from a hospital where he has apparently been brought after an accident which leaves him with broken legs and head injuries.
It is definitely a book to read for the journey, not the destination.
The First Chronicles of Amber were like nothing in the 1970's fantasy market, and they've pretty much stayed their way.
The prose has all the refinement of 50 grit sandpaper.
If you like quality prose, skip this book.
This is a book written for the mass market, a power fantasy for the train riding office worker.
Your enemies and your allies are the same people, and everyone has the same goal: take the big chair for themselves.
When I say it's a power fantasy, we're talking people akin to gods fighting for the rulership of the magical universe.
Graced with the ability to walk through Shadow - essentially all of the worlds that make up Amber's myriad reflections across time and space - he is nearly immortal and possesses power beyond that of normal men.But while that might seem promising, he also quickly finds himself re-embroiled in a deadly, centuries-long battle among his siblings, who have split into factions pursuing the throne in Amber, vacant since their father disappeared."The First Chronicles of Amber" is justly regarded as one of the best fantasy series ever written.
The characters' actions and motivation are strikingly human, and you won't find the classical "good guy/bad guy" distinction you find in many fantasy books; everybody has their shade of grey, and you'll learn to understand if not accept their decisions.Thinking a bit more about this, I remember how I felt throughout Corwin's transformation.
The story being written in first person he was of course a hero to himself and his enemies were wrong all the time in the first book.
I think this kind of "waking up" is difficult to portray in a series/book, even more when you only have one point of view to work with, and that's the person waking up.
Through this style of writing, Zelazny weaves together a complex narrative told from the perspective of Prince Corwin of Amber, one of nine brothers vying to claim the throne of Amber, all of whom believe they have a legitimate claim.
Zelazny brings a level of detail to his world of which most authors can only dream, and he populates this richly imagined land with an array of scheming, conniving, Machiavellian characters to boot.
If you are looking for something beyond the traditional fantasy then look no further, this series will capture your imagination and turn it on its head.
The writing is minimalistic and reads sort of like Hemingway crossed with a 1940s detective novel, except with random Shakespeare quotations thrown everywhere.
The character of Corwin really grows on the reader and shifts from a machiavellian royal to an enjoyable protagonist.
At first Corwin is someone who is willing to kill his own sibling and send thousands of men he has duped to their deaths in order to get the crown.
He may remind readers of Game of Thrones somewhat of Stannis Baratheon.
Overall this is a series worth reading for anyone who enjoys fantasy literature.
My only regret is that I didn't read these books sooner.
These first five books are wonderful - I would rate them five stars each.
Relatives pop out of the woodwork like termites - but do they want the throne, revenge or something else?
The first book of the series, Nine Princes in Amber, was brilliantly done.
and so on until you realize that you have now read them all.These books are classic, not to mention necessary, if you ever want to play Amber Diceless Roleplaying - or get any Amber references in any other fantasy games.
I think the Chronicles of Amber are a lot of fun...
Zelazny's schtik is explaining how magic works in an almost science fictiony sort of way.
but the reality bending powers of the Amberites are fun and different all the same.
but the battle that ends the book leaves things feeling a bit unfinished.
It still feels like a complete tale all the same though and I think an unfinished ending does such a malleable story justice.
I know there is a second Chronicle I should probably read to see what other sorts of stories Zelazny dreamed up in Amber...
Chociaż może to nie jego wina tylko moja, że przeczytałam wszystkie tomy na raz, miałam zbyt duże oczekiwania i jestem na takie książki za stara.
W każdym razie zaczyna się nieźle główny bohater ma amnezję, a jego rodzeństwo chce go zabić.
Cykl się broni w pierwszym tomie „Dziewięciu książąt Amberu”.
Dobrze się czyta, jest tragicznie, cierpiąco, ale główny bohater nie poddaje się.
Drugi jeszcze może być, ale póżniej...Nie wiem co mi najbardziej nie pasowało.
Może to uczucie jakbym była z powrotem w gimnazjum i grała w „Nevervinternights” - czy jak to się nazywało?
