https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/7061.The_No_1_Ladies_Detective_Agency
A lot of people are under the impression that Alexander Mccall Smith books are strictly for middle aged women.
A lot of people are also under the impression that these books are mystery books.
Mysteries are a very small part of these stories.
These books are about humanity and the small things that make it so good to be both human and alive.
I have recommended this book to countless people who unfortunately do not pick it up for the reasons that I have mentioned above.
I have met Alexander Mccall Smith and he is one of the most joyful, intelligent, and interesting people I've ever encountered.
The No.1 Ladies Detective Agency is a delightful work and a quick read to boot.
Smith alternates between small bits of back-story for the central character, Precious Ramotswe, a woman of traditional build, young-middle-aged (30s?) divorcee, heavy with intelligence, gumption and cunning, and the mysteries she unravels as the sole detective of the title agency.
Jill Scott as Precious Ramotswe and Anika Noni Rose as Grace Makutsi - from the HBO production It is rich with payload on local (Botswana) color, and is told in a simple, straightforward manner.
It is a good thing that Smith wrote a whole herd of these books.
Wise, funny, intelligent, insightful and blushing with vigour and a heartfelt love of Africa, I'm not in the least surprised this series - of which this is the first book - has done so well.Set in Botswana, it features thirty-five year old Mma Ramotswe, a cunning, content and large (in the "traditional" way) woman who, after her father dies leaving her many head of cattle, sells up and opens a detective agency.
Just could not get past the very obvious fact that this book is written by a white guy, trying to tell a story through the eyes of a Botswana(ese?) woman.
It felt a bit patronising, as in, look how simply these people live, just hanging out in the hot sun watching their cattle, oh to live so simply like this, oh look this woman is setting up a detective agency, can you imagine that, a woman?
A black woman?
How quaint and adorable, etc.
It was a cute story, but that was the problem, it was all just a bit too cute.
For a simpler life...?The heart of this novel is its feminist protagonist, Mma Ramotswe who lives in a precious town in Gaborone, still untouched by technology or South African cosmopolitanism.
This book is extremely feminist, in a very good, positive and enlightening way, as much as it is anticolonialist.
But to counter this notion there is a heartwarming case that Mma Ramotswe, the number one (and sole) female detective in Botswana, must face that is not as uncomplicated as gathering evidence on cheating husbands, insurance fraud, double identities, etc.
The book is written using concise, minimalistic verbs.
It has the charm of "Amelie" but reads like a Roald Dahl novel.
I feel like I should post a bit of a disclaimer first: This is not a book I would have chosen for myself.
It had a "cozy mystery" vibe.
It wasn't complicated and a lot of the story in the beginning was backstory on Mma Ramotswe, the main character.
The book was just as much about the development of characters as much as the "mysteries."The narrator, Lisette Lecat, was amazing.
It was a well-written book, but overall, I just thought it was a cozy mystery type book that didn't really leave me wondering what was going to come next?
When Precious Ramotswe’s father died and left her with his cattle, the sale made her quite wealthy.
Her decision to open the first Ladies Detective Agency in Botswana – in fact the only detective agency – was an easy one.
She hired Grace Makutsi and together they enjoyed many cups of tea between the occasional case.Mma Ramotswe was admired by many, but her intuition and stubborn desire to solve people’s problems saw her succeed in (most of) the cases she was asked to investigate.
I thoroughly enjoyed it and the intelligent humour fits Precious Ramotswe’s character perfectly!
i am probably the only person in the whole world who thinks this but these books are singularly underwhelming. Nothing ever happens. The characters are annoying. To be honest I did only read this first one but couldn't face another. Have refrained from putting this on my list till now cos I always thought I might try another and find it more interesting but then I thought there are enormous caverns of books as yet undiscovered. Why force myself to read another book of this just because I feel I should. So Mr McCall Smith, have a good life
This collection of vignettes disguised as a novel was a great read. The main character is a gentle African woman who decides to be a detective to help other people. She is a delightful character, with light humor and a big heart. Agency isn't like any other detective novels...the characters are much more developed and the "mysteries" aren't the usual murders, whether cosy or hard-boiled. If you'd like a sweet trip to another culture, calmer and gnetler than ours, this is a book for you.
I put off reading this series for a long time until I found out that it wasn't a book for "ladies," but one to be enjoyed by readers of both sexes--and enjoy it I did.
In its simple and conversational manner, this book taught me a little bit about many things: Botswana, African culture in general, working in the diamond mines of South Africa, and human nature.
Little disasters, little victories; like ours, she thought; when viewed from above we are no more than setotojane." I try not to be too effusive with my praise and rate books four and five very often.
I’m late to Precious Ramotswe and her wonderful business, and I shouldn’t have waited so long to enjoy these books.
She describes his terrifying life underground and how the wealthy owners take advantage of black workers.“The Sotho miners used to sing ‘The mines eat men.
Even when you have left them, the mines will still be eating you.'”When she decides to cash up the cattle herd and establish the first detective agency run by ladies (well, A lady and a secretary/clerk), she is very business-like.
Yes, the heroine solves mysteries as part of her business of being a private detective.
It's one of those books that you read for the journey, not the destination.And at the heart of it all is our wonderful heroine, Mma Ramotswe, the first lady detective in Botswana.After her beloved father death, Mma Ramotswe used her small inheritance to open a business, “the No. 1 Ladies’ Detective Agency”.
There was a funny scene when the heroine went to a lawyer about opening her business:
Should she tell him?“Women are the ones who know what’s going on,” she said quietly.
"Women are the ones who knows what's going on," she said quietly . "They are the ones with eyes. Have you not heard of Agatha Christie?"  I love Mma Ramotswe. She is funny, wonderful, brave, and unapologetically a feminist. Sure, she's made mistakes. Sure, she's done stupid things, but then again, that just gives her more character.  Detective agencies rely on human intuition and intelligence, both of which Mma Ramotswe had in abundance. No inventory would ever include those, of course. I was b
Sure, she's done stupid things, but then again, that just gives her more character.
And so, for some reason, because I've heard so many stories about life and the people there, things in this book did not come as a culture shock to me.
They told me about the warm people of Botswana, with big hearts, about the easy life there, about the vegetable gardens, about the Kalahari.
But Mma Ramotswe reminded me of every Motswana woman my parents ever told me about - the maid, the cook, the neighbour - large in body and heart, and always willing to help.
Because sometimes, it's just best to admire the simple things in life.
This book was built on slow paced descriptions of African - Botswanian, to be precise - life and on the charismatic character of Mma Ramotswe, the first lady detective in Botswana.
I didn't mind the slow pace, and I loved Precious Ramotswe.
I enjoyed the "slice of life" pictures of Africa a lot.
The warm relationship between Precious and her father was truly touching.
This book was charming, relaxing and really what I needed most right now.
I'll probably read next books in series.
And I surely will watch the BBC series with one of my favest performers ever Jill Scott as Precious!
I listened to this book on CD! The woman reading it is awesome! And the African Music in the background sets the scene perfectly! This is the perfect, lighthearted book to listen to in the car. I drove around daydreaming that I was driving through the Kalihari! Loved it!
I would describe the feeling of reading it to be “calming.” It is very unlike the North American or Scandinavian crime fiction genre.I’ve never been to Botswana, but I felt like I had taken a mini-holiday there by the end of the book.
And you get an insight into the people and their culture than you would never get as a tourist—a sense of how completely different their approach to life is.Just took a look and have realized that there are seventeen books so far in this series.
I’m very glad to have read it and eventually I may get around to further books in the series.
Pleasant and somewhat interesting, but not compelling.It's my impression that mystery novels are part puzzle and part vehicle for depicting a cross-section of life in some locale.
The puzzle part in No. 1 Ladies' Detective Agency was never very elaborate.
Most mysteries arose and resolved in the span of one chapter.
In fact it seemed like the point was to showcase Precious' subtle knack for zeroing in and keeping things from being more complex than they need to be.
Precious and her approach to sleuthing were charming and pleasant, but not page-turning for me.The slice of life aspect was interesting because I know almost nothing about Botswana.
What a refreshing change to read the great little Botswanian mysteries that unfold, as the wonderfully strong and fiercely independent Precious Ramotswe sets up her agency.
I will be reading the rest of this series for sure and I must learn how to cook chicken with pumpkin!"She stopped.
It was time to take the pumpkin out of the pot and eat it.
In the final analysis, that was what solved these big problems of life.
You could think and think and get nowhere, but you still had to eat your pumpkin.
Pumpkin."― Alexander McCall Smith, The No. 1 Ladies' Detective Agency
I gobbled all the books in the series, and the only thing left is to list them all here on goodreads in my "already done that" list.
Not that I don't go back to them again and again, when I want some good laughs, some good old fashioned "comfort reading".
Predictably, I read til dawn and enjoyed every precious moment.There is more about life here, than there is mystery; more of a how-to manual on how to treat people, how to respect them; less of a whodunnit, and for that it is all the more enjoyable.
Marcos keeps telling me I should write children's books.
This book was so simple and yet so enjoyable that it makes me wonder if I really could write a book too.Because each mystery/case is so short and precise, it doesn't need all the suspense other books use.
I think the suspense in this book is about finding out what the next problem wil be and how clever she is to solve it.One question asked in book club was if women are more perceptive than men.
I don't feel that all women are more perceptive than all men.
However, I would venture to generalize that many women seem to be more sensitive to other people's feelings than most men are.
The book is set in Botswana and is about Mma Ramotswe, who opens up a detective agency.
She also dabbles in finding daughters, sons, and witch doctors.
She of course has had trouble with her own life.
Which of course, I fully supported.
Overall, I really enjoyed this book.
I honestly wouldn't have read this book if it wasn't for a challenge that asked for book set in Africa.
Will she find the missing child and the witch doctor?
I developed so many questions while reading this book and I enjoyed how it ended as well.
I love all the books in this series.
They are funny and insightful and full of wisdom.
These are books I love to read and don't hesitate to recommend to anyone.
One friend I recommended them to didn't like them.
She said it was like reading a book written for twelve-year-olds (Mr. McCall Smith has written several books for children).
Well, maybe that's why I like them; I love to read childrens/young adult fiction!.
I wouldn't hesitate to have a twelve year old read them or recommend them to a senior citizen from my church.
Mma Ramotswe is a wonderful strong character and I'm looking forward to getting to know her more through the series.
I really enjoyed the gentle escapism this book provides by taking you Botswana and I love the cultural details such as (view spoiler)[ Mma Ramotswe says she greeted her daddy in the traditional Botswanan way which was a curtsey followed by clapping your hands  (hide spoiler)] As most reviews say, the mysteries aren't the main part of the book but they definitely add something to the story and I love the idea that a woman in Botswana has the bravery to set up a business that in that time and place would be seen as a profession for only men.I was very surprised to notice these books are written by a man, I expected Mma Ramotswe's character to have been created by a woman and possibly by a Botswanan woman!
I'm so looking forward to meeting these characters again in the next story.
I should have paid more attention to the reviewer who said that this is not a mystery.
This is a collection of tales about people and their problems.
The main character solves their problems in unconventional ways, and so maintains a private detective agency.
There are some sad, heartwarming, and amusing stories, but I felt like I was listening to an old man recounting tales that mean more to him than to me.So for me, this was just ok.
I don't intend to read more of the series, and now I'm going to go find myself a real mystery, which is what I wanted in the first place.
Here, the stories did progress the overall plot, and showed us who Mma Ramotswe is, and who the people she knows are, and where she's from, and how she grew up, etc.
But I don't think that this is a story (or series) that one reads for the plot.
The fact that this book was touted as being "charming, honest, hilarious, and life-affirming" is admittedly one of the reasons I picked it up right now, having just read some really horrific stuff recently.
I was one of those people who came to this story thinking that it really was a mystery - as well charming and funny, etc.
Because nothing comes close, for me, in terms of a comfort read with soul, wisdom, great characters I've come to love and appreciate, and a beautifully alive setting in Botswana.
As the series progresses, more time is spent fleshing out the characters, and we read as much to see what's going on with them as we do to hear about Mma Ramotswe's latest case.
Please give this book and the second one a try, particularly if you're looking for a comfort read that is never sweet or cutesy, written by a humble gentleman with a heart of gold.
ir cita lieta), grāmatas darbības vieta Bostvāna šoreiz bija pietiekams arguments izlasīt grāmatu.
Nu ko, šoreiz netipiskā izvēle bija patīkams pārsteigums.
Prešesa Ramotsve ir patiešām burvīga galvenā grāmatas varone - gudra, asprātīga un pašpārliecināta tieši tik pareizās proporcijās, lai nekristu uz nerviem un nekļūtu pārāk pareiza: viņa vairākkārt noraida preciniekus un nošauj krokodilu, bet brīdī, kad mašīnā ielien čūska (visticamāk kobra), viņa ilgojas, kaut blakus tomēr būtu vīrietis, kas ar to tiktu galā.
Galu galā esmu tik ļoti pozitīvi pārsteigta par grāmatas saturu, ka laikam es pat izlasīšu turpinājumu!
Still, don't skip The No. 1 Ladies' Detective Agency, as each novel builds on the one that came before.The novel appears to be a collection of short stories about the cases of Mma Precious Ramotswe, a clever and gentle Botswanan woman who goes into the detective business armed only with a how-to book, an incomparable secretary and her own good sense.
In the end, it turns out to be enough, and all the stories tie in together by the last page.The next book, Tears of the Giraffe, is even better.
In fact, each of Alexander McCall Smith's books is better than the one that came before.
Από το 2013 το είχα πάρει αυτό το βιβλίο και δεν το ξεκίναγα, δεν ξέρω γιατί, αλλά έπρεπε!Απολαυστικό, ενδιαφέρον, μια ηρωίδα ευφυής , λογική, με τρόπο σκέψης που μου ταίριαζε και χάρηκα να βλέπω την Αφρική και τους ανθρώπους της μέσα από τα μάτια της. Η πρωταγωνίστρια Precious, και ντετέκτιβ σε διάφορες μικρές υποθέσεις που λύνονταν με λογική, σκέψη και εξυπνάδα και γυναίκα που ψάχνει και διεκδικεί την θέση της στον κόσμο! 3,5 στα 4 αλλά θα δώσω το μισό υπέρ του μαθητή!Για την κατηγορία   B.R.A
Από το 2013 το είχα πάρει αυτό το βιβλίο και δεν το ξεκίναγα, δεν ξέρω γιατί, αλλά έπρεπε!Απολαυστικό, ενδιαφέρον, μια ηρωίδα ευφυής , λογική, με τρόπο σκέψης που μου ταίριαζε και χάρηκα να βλέπω την Αφρική και τους ανθρώπους της μέσα από τα μάτια της.
Η πρωταγωνίστρια Precious, και ντετέκτιβ σε διάφορες μικρές υποθέσεις που λύνονταν με λογική, σκέψη και εξυπνάδα και γυναίκα που ψάχνει και διεκδικεί την θέση της στον κόσμο!
3,5 στα 4 αλλά θα δώσω το μισό υπέρ του μαθητή!Για την κατηγορία 
2017 ένα βιβλίο που με κάποιο τρόπο συνδέεται με την Αφρική 

