https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/99950.Bhagavad_Gita_According_to_Gandhi
I'm glad I happened to read this version which includes Gandhi's comments--without them I don't think I would have gotten a whole lot from it, with them, I found it to be a beautiful and peaceful book.One of the problems I've had with my limited attempts at understanding Eastern philosophy is how to reconcile the Eastern idea non-striving with the Western values of action and ambition.
Even without making an effort to understand any of the historical and Sanskrit Hindu context, I found the text rewarding and very much worth reading.
I'm not sure you can rate a spiritual text...
Gandhi's translation and interpretation of this classic Hindu poem is unique in the way it emphasizes the need for hard work, constant striving, and determined effort in the pursuit of our social obligations, moral strengthening, and spiritual fulfillment."Yoga means nothing but skill in work," he claims, and the background to his religious and political beliefs revealed in these lectures gives deeper meaning to his attempts to establish schools, factories, and communities in rural India with the goal of freedom from colonial rule in sight.Gandhi teaches that life is suffering, liberation is unattainable, and none of us will ever reach perfection in this life.
It is hard for me to relate to and understand many parts of this text - including the commentaries by Gandhi - but several parts strike me with truth like an arrow hitting the center of a target. It is a beautiful book and, together with others, will become part of my core important books.
I wouldn't recommend this book to someone new to the Gita. If this is your first time reading this excellent scripture, do yourself a favor and try a different translation. This is more like a primer or summary rather than a faithful translation. It only gets four stars because the Bhagavad Gita in itself is one of the most important books ever written. Don't waste your time, unless you've already read it and just want to refresh your memory.
I've never read a religious text other than the Bible before. It was truly interesting to get a new perspective on the world, especially in how Gandhi applied it to his own life. I made several connections to the book, but there were also aspects I disagreed with on a fundamental level. Part of this was naturally from how I've been raised and how I've come to look at the world. Yet I appreciated the challenge and the opportunity to reexamine my own beliefs.
I'm not sure yet... Very deep and a lot to digest. Actually... Not sure I can ever rate it... Can you rate a spiritual text? Does the bible have a rating?
Interesting, but I love the Holy Bible Best
For dopes like me, i am exceedingly grateful, but now i will look the gift horse in the mouth.Strohmeier, the editor, "abridged [Gandhi's] commentary considerably and rearranged it in a few sections," which he justifies by pointing out that the original was a literal transcription of Gandhi's unrehearsed daily talks at the ashram's 9-month-long Gita study group in 1926 and, therefore, contained "redundancies, contradictions, ellipses, false starts, and situational digressions [as you'd expect] of everyday conversation" (xi).Maybe the translator of Little Big G's Gujarati into English was not up to the challenge.
(Also, i prefer to risk boring you with my reasons, so...) 2 verses from the Gita (in italics) and their paragraph of commentary should suffice to exemplify my dissatisfaction, after which i'll detail my opinion on the matter.Know that to be imperishable whereby all this is pervaded.
The point that Gandhi takes from the text, so far as memory serves after all these years, is the importance of selfless action.
In this light, the extremity of choice facing Arjuna becomes important and the text chosen to make the point may be well chosen.
Gandhi may well be reading it as god urging a man to risk everything, even his own life, for what might be called "love".
His followers not only risked their own lives, but stood by while their comrades were beaten and sometimes killed--something I don't think I could manage with good conscience.
Constantly focusing our energies on peace, prayer, and the soul therefore goes hand in hand with a life of sincerity, humility, and fearlessness."The teaching of the Gita was not meant to be merely preserved in a book," Gandhi tells his listeners.
be satisfied with one article when we feel we can make do with two."In addition to lifting our burdens as well as those of our family and community, the way of purity and self-control also promises enlightenment, oneness with God, and an end to the cycles of life.
Once a beginning is made, nothing will stand in our way."There are thousands of followers of Bhagavad Gita but Gandhi is the most extraordinary one.
Gandhi was completely comfortable in his own skin and loved his religion and culture despite the Brits telling the Indian people that everything British was superior to everything Indian.
His inspiration to kick the Brits out of India was the Bhagavad Gita so it was important for me to read what he had to say.
I am a big fan of Rajiv Malhotra and he is a big fan of Gandhi.
Here is what Malhotra has to say about Gandhi along with how Gandhi applied the teaching of the Bhagavad Gita to kicking the Brits out.Gandhi’s Dharma And The West at http://rajivmalhotra.com/library/arti...
The Bhagavad Gita According to Gandhi was a very interesting and inspiring book. I loved how he told us more about "the Gita" and its whole meaning throughout the book. "The Gita does not decide for us..." and "...the Gita is not for those who have no faith". However, I did find the book a bit hard to read because of the commentaries that Gandhi made throughout the book. It just kind of got me off track to what I was reading when I read those...it was nice knowing his thoughts on these things though.
This is another book which, if read at an early enough age (early 20's) would form a solid foundation for moving forward well in life. When combined with readings of the Bible, Koran, Dhammapda and other texts of ancient wisdom traditions, we see the commonalities for peace and nonviolence are much greater than the differences which people ignorantly use to foment violence and fear.Having Gandhi's commentary is illuminating.I recommend reading a stand-alone text first, drawing your own views and conclusions and then reading the version with Gandhi's commentary.
It seems that Gandhi tried to use the Bhagavad Gita to mold his philosophy of non-violence. The interpretations of Gandhi didn't follow the true teachings of the Gita; however is a good read if you'd like to find out more about Gandhi's insight and religious view, as well as giving you an opportunity to learn about the maxims of the Gita.
A lot of interesting thoughts have been presented to me. I enjoyed the comment by Ghandi on many of the failures we face in life: "Failure is not due to want of effort but is in spite of it." Also, "Knowledge w/o devotion will be like a misfire," as we must have devotion and then knowledge will more clearly follow.
Less accessible to western audiences thereby highlighting, if not necessarily illuminating, fundamental differences between eastern and western cultures. I left with some new insight regarding Gandhi, and some new thoughts about the Gita, but above all a feeling that there are some things that I, being from New York City, will probably never understand about the east.
The Bhagavad Gita is certainly not an easy book to read, but Gandhi's interpretation makes it much more accessible to the casual reader. At times his interpretation of the Gita is a bit strained toward his own political leanings, but otherwise it's a great spiritual work.
This is a very down to earth discussion of the meaning of this text; the focus is on non-violence. Whether this is what Gandhi got out of the text, or something he read back in after he cemented his philosophy is beyond me. Still, it's inspirational and very readable.
excellent
This wasn't a real page turner, but getting to learn about the faith that shaped Gandhi's life is very inspirational.
I can't do it. I'm getting a different translation.
Fascinating to hear Gandhi's views of the typical confusion people have with Krishna's advice to Arjuna. A book about a warrior's duty interpreted by a master of non-violence.
A good starting book on Bhagavad Gita. Definitely not an elaborated book on gita. But i say its a must read on gita. Gandhi is a serious advocate of Gita way of living.
simply awesome. i'm not sure what to say, though. i think i really read this about three times, reading and rereading...
Lackluster translation of an outstanding scripture. Fave renditions are by Isherwood or Easwaran.
wonderful!
This is my first stab at reading the Gita, and I just got stuck. I think I'll be able to manage all the commentary more effectively after reading a different translation first.
Excellent text to modern philosophy of life.
Gandhi's own translation and commentary on the Gita are must-reads for spiritual and political practitioners everywhere.
