https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/513176.Rogue_Squadron
This changed recently when my brother decided he wanted to run a play-by-email Star Wars RPG, and though that never really got off the ground, it did inspire me to start another project of my own set in that universe.
Let me give an example of how Stackpole succeeds: Early on in the book, as Wedge Antilles (the only man with two Death Stars painted on his fighter) sets about reorganizing the famed Rogue Squadron, his new recruits are undergoing simulated exercises, including the Redemption scenario.
Good Star Wars fun.Michael Stackpole’s 1996 Star Wars expansion novel provides a great deal of meaningful backstory and detail for fans of the Star Wars films and universe.Set a few years after the battle of Endor, when the Rebel Alliance has defeated both Death Stars and what’s left of the Empire is on the ropes, Stackpole continues the story and from the perspective of some of the minor players from the films, but fun characters to explore.
Enjoyable for fans, and I am one, but I might have liked this more when I was in HS and he could easily and graciously have chopped 100 pages off to make this a tighter and better story.
I Liked: Stackpole has created an array of interesting new characters--characters who could die at any moment (and only reading later books lets me know if they still live).
Since the Empire is still pretty strong, we need to have new Imperial villains, so Stackpole provides us with Ysanne "Iceheart" Ishard and Kirtan Loor.
Being the first of a series, this book has a lot of set up: characters, mood, plot.
Overall: An enjoyable start to a good series, Rogue Squadron keeps things exciting with new characters and a different niche (dogfighting a la Top Gun).
A Quickie ReviewThe start of one of the best-loved series within the Star Wars Expanded Universe, Rogue Squadron is a fun and enjoyable read with plenty of new characters.
Fans of the EU who have yet to try these books definitely should.Score: 4/5EDIT: After suffering through the shark jump that was The Last Jedi, I needed a reminder of why I became a fan of Star Wars...and this did the trick.
Forget the new movies; the Expanded Universe is the true successor to the original trilogy.
Maybe, someday, the franchise will get a reboot, and we'll see the Thrawn trilogy on the big screen; one can only hope.
I've read this book quite a few times. The most recent reading (2018), I have to say the thing that impresses me the most about this book is the fact that it get so much done. Twists, turns, laughs, tears. It's all here. I have a hard time getting into some of the other Star Wars books because I always compare them to the X-Wing Series. I'm going to be getting the comics next.
I understand it's hard to focus on twelve characters, and some of them do get their own moments to shine later on.Anyone familiar with the X-Wing comic book series, also written by Stackpole will recognize Mirax Terrik and enjoy her inclusion in the books.'Rogue Squadron' serves as a great first book and springboard into the rest of the series, and I certainly recommend it to any Star Wars fan, especially the ones who loved the space battles in the movies.
Okay. I can't remember the plot *at all*. But I do remember that I really enjoyed reading this series despite being a bit sceptical on the outset (ventured into it based on gushing reviews from a friend). I wouldn't know how it holds up right now though. Tempted to do a re-read... but TBR pile so win. LOL.
In spite of the fact that I love I, Jedi and have read it repeatedly, I just haven't gotten around to re-reading Corran's original series since the first time in '99.The X-Wing series is one of the best ideas for a series anyone has ever had.
It's just good novels.There's no doubt whatever about the X-Wing series' place in realcanon, and this book is a firecracker to start the series off with.
I'm actually glad I only read the first four back in '99, because I haven't had a fresh realcanon book to look forward to in a long time, and now I have half a series!This review via The Rebel Librarian.
400 pages of talking, exposition, training simulations, 1 dimensional characters and NO STORY.Getting to the end of this was brutal.
At 300 pages, I gave up and read another book then figured I should come back and finish it.
The chemistry between characters is just ridiculous with two different women throwing themselves sexually at Corran for no real reason whatsoever except that that seems to be their only purpose in the story.The action is non existent.
In between is just a whole bunch of talking from bland characters.The action to exposition ratio is 1/8.
I read these when I was younger, but I forgot that they just feel so good. Like the dogfights feel right and the tight knit crack squadron vibe comes through. This is trash, sure, but it's good trash.
I haven't finished catching up in the timeline so I can read Mercy Kill, but I'm looking forward to it more than ever.AUDIO BOOK REVIEW: I recently had the chance to listen to the abridged audio book of Rogue Squadron, and while I really enjoyed listening to the story with all the sound effects and music that make the Star Wars audio books such a great experience, I really missed a lot of the material that was cut out during the abridging process.

If you are like me, a fun part of your childhood was playing X-Wing and TIE Fighter on your family's old PC.
You may have even had to do something like use a boot disk (3.5") or run it in MS-DOS.
It was harder to get much cooler than locking your own S-foils into attack position.Thus, Rogue Squadron, which feeds the natural SW fan tendency to gravitate towards obscure characters from the movies (Wedge Antilles, who's awesome) and adds in a certain Top Gun feel because you're dealing with hotshot fighter pilots in the days where the Rebel Alliance is trying to forge itself into the New Republic.I suspect (although I'm not going to check) that if I dug out my old copy of this book I could still sit back and enjoy the ride.
One of my favourite series of novels growing up, featuring many of my favourite characters from the Star Wars Expanded Universe (RIP).
Wedge Antilles finally gets the star treatment he has deserved for so long.
Just about every single chapter ends with a lame speech, the good guys always win, and our hero Corran Horn is a textbook Mary Sue. If you can get past all of that, you're left with an enjoyable ride, and one of the only Star Wars series that understands Jedi are not the only interesting people in the universe.
THIS. I love seeing Wedge Antilles get more time, he makes it through the movies, he's a top fighter pilot, I love seeing him commanding. Well written, well done, what should be expected of a Star Wars book. I read it when it first came out and have recently re-read it. It was just as good the second time around.
A fairly solid "pilot episode" for the Rogue Squadron series. It's mostly set-up, lots of exposition, and lots of battle writing (which tends to make my eyes go cross-eyed). Many of the characters don't exactly grab my attention, but it sets up plot lines for the future with great efficiency, and is very readable. It's not a "Star Wars" novel that will rock your world, but it makes for a pleasant introduction to a particular branch of the Lucasverse.
Back before the movie Prequels were released, Star Wars fans only had the expanded universe books for new content. The Rogue Squadron series was by far the best of these. I did enjoy this book, but at times it was hard to follow. The characters were a little thin, but with such a short book there wasn't much time for character development. I keep hoping that Poe Dameron's Black Squadron in the new comics isn't a direct replacement for this series and that they'll eventually make a Star Wars movie based on these books. So much potential here.
Ao mesmo tempo, forças imperiais ainda existem e planejam mais contra-ataques para tirar a Nova República do poder."Inevitáveis como os impostos e lentos como a burocracia, eles vieram."E é nessa hora que uma nova geração de pilotos de X-wing começa a ser treinada por nada mais nada menos que Wedge Antilles, sobrevivente das duas corridas contra as temidas Estrelas da Morte.Acompanharemos principalmente a vida do tenente corelliano Corran Horn, que acaba se mostrando um excelente piloto, mas sem conseguir deixar para trás o seu passado meio obscuro.
It is abundantly clear when reading this book that its author is more interested in cool space battles and flying craft than he is in creating believable characters or building a coherent plot.I want to like absolutely all SW related stuff, but there were many reasons this book fell short in that category.
It reads a little bit like the author forgets that despite the fact that he knows what all his characters are thinking, they cannot know each others' thoughts at all times.
Again, this makes for very boring reading.StoryStackpole, as mentioned, likes his space battles.
Wedge is cool. Other than that, the members of the Squadron are largely indistinguishable, the tactical action is confusing, and women are invariably described as slender with long, shapely legs.
And when the big draw of the series is following the missions of an entire Squadron of X-Wings, it’s kind of important that their missions be engaging.But even that aside, the book falls short in many other aspects.
Aside from Corran (who left such a lasting impression that I couldn't even remember his name while writing this review and had to look it up) and Wedge, none of the characters have any identities or personalities to make them stand out.
As such, I’m sorry for the manner which these updates have been prepared but such is the way of life.After the disappointing Shadows of the Empire I was happy to get back into a book that followed the strategem that works so well for books like the Republic Commando novels; one that focuses on the inner workings of the military in the Star Wars universe.
In short, it's the Star Wars novel I should have been reading when I was ten, and it's still like stuffing my brain with caramel corn now.Beloved secondary character Commander Wedge Antilles ("Get clear, Wedge!
Actually I docked it for two things: if you aren't very visual indeed, the dogfights will be a struggle to assimilate -- and there are a lot of them; and Corran's character arc in this book -- "Oh, I have to be a teamworker even though I'm a hotshot?" -- is a little infantile and yawnworthy, I found.
This series takes place after the events of Return of the Jedi and centre on the X-Wing Squadron - "Rogue Squadron" commanded by Wedge Antilles.
I find these books to be one of the better series in the Star Wars novel collection.
If you have ever played the X-Wing or TIE fighter video games on the PC these books will remind you of those games.Being the first book in the series it introduces you to the characters with the main ones being Wedge Antilles the commander of the squadron otherwise know as Rogue One and Corran Horn - Rogue nine.
I enjoy sci fi military fiction and I am a big Star Wars fan so this series was fated to be a favorite of mine.
In this first book, Stackpole has taken the idea of Rogue Squadron, an elite X wing fighter group which we met in Star Wars, A New Hope, and expanded it into a living, breathing entity.
The story begins about 6.5 years after A New Hope.
We come to know all of the fighter pilots, including Wedge Antilles and Tycho Celchu, two of my favorites.
The X-Wing series is my favorite out of all of the Star Wars novels.The story follows Wedge Antilles and cohorts as they rebuild Rogue Squadron.
These series show how important characters other than Luke Skywalker are to the Rebellion.From backwater asteroid bases to the dizzying heights of Coruscant's skyscrapers the story follows the expolits of the rag tag Rebellion's elite X-wing pilots.
If space battles and descriptions of maneuvering don't interest you then you might want to pass.
But if you really want to know how the Empire fell then let me just say the death of the Emperor didn't make Imperial City switch to the rebellion or make all the Imperial Commanders hand in the keys to their Star Destroyers.
I enjoyed the original Star Wars trilogy but had never considered myself a fan until now.
The Force Awakens triggered it, and Michael Stackpole has really cemented it.
Rogue Squadron is a treat, and it's a crime that it's no longer considered canon.
Wedge Antilles (a Commander now) has reformed the squadron with some fantastic pilots.
There's plenty of space action, but what I particularly enjoyed were the characters.
I think what initially turned me off to Star Wars was the mysticism and aloofness of the Jedi.
The Rogues are refreshingly down to earth, and I can't wait to spend some more time with them.
Wedge gets his own series when he takes command of a squadron of special trouble shooting X-wing pilots.Nice to see Wedge get fleshed out, as I always liked the guy and there's a nice mix of characters in the squadron.My only problem is there are too many sub-plots introduced in this book for me to get excited about getting the rest of the series.
If I'm wrong about how much the sub-plots weigh down the series or get dragged out ( my two big worries) please let me know.

Surely this is the book for someone, but it isn't me.
I should start by saying that I'm not a Star Wars fan; I'm not a hater, it just never captured my imagination.
I read Wraith Squadron (#4 in the X-Wing series) and liked it a lot, so I was optimistic going into Rogue Squadron, but I just can't keep going.
I don't get the references and, despite my husband's offer to give me a crash course on all of the different ships using his miniatures, I don't want to learn trivia in order to be able to enjoy a book.
