https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/9507278-the-complete-works-of-edgar-allan-poe
I know I've read too much Poe in too short a period of time when words like adduce and avidity have crept into my everyday conversation.
It would be interesting to learn from a Poe scholar how his personal battle against the bottle paralleled his works...3) A hidden gem of a story that I had never before read The Conversation of Eiros and Charmion quickly became my favorite work of Poe. Brilliant and sadly neglected / forgotten.4) I had no idea that Poe is credited as being the author of the first detective "novel".
Including a trip to the moon in a hot air balloon.6) Poe wrote a book review of Washington Irving's Astoria that was so exhaustive that I felt like I actually read the entire novel.
My goodness the man's so modern, the following is written in 1836, but what could be more apposite for the Internet Age and the age of Self-Publishing and the age of Academia's Publish or Perish.Edgar Allan Poe was an early employee of the “Southern Literary Messenger” of Richmond, Virginia.
In 1836 he wrote a review of a legal tome titled “Reports of Cases Decided in the High Court of Chancery of Maryland”, and his first sentence provided a harsh assessment: We cannot perceive any sufficient reason for the publication of this book....Now, the enormous multiplication of books in every branch of knowledge is one of the greatest evils of this age; since it presents one of the most serious obstacles to the acquisition of correct information, by throwing in the reader’s way piles of lumber, in which he must painfully grope for the scraps of useful matter, peradventure interspersed.
Me and Edgar first encountered each other in seventh grade, when I was 13. I think it was love at first sight when we read one of the short story collections. Not only they were morbid and depicted the horrible nature of evil I thought he himself was like one of his tragic characters. This edition was a great chance to finish the rest that I hadn't come across. Illustrations by Aubrey Beardsley, Harry Clarke etc.
Well fuck. How do i describe Edgar Allen Poe? Guess i really cant. What i CAN say, however, is how amazing he is. His stories are corrupt, depressing, haunting, chilling, goddamn terrifying, and downright inhumane. AWESOME, RIGHT?!?If you don't have the time to get off ya bum and read the entire collection, at LEAST read the following:The Murders at Rue MorgueThe Pit and the PendulumCask of AmontilladoThe Telltale HeartThe Raven
Edgar Allan Poe is a mixed bag for me. The stories and poems that I like, I like very, very much; but there are others that are just yawnfests. Still, this is the definitive collection for all Poe fans, so be sure to check it out.

Interestingly I have this book although mine is called The Penguin Tales and Poems,published by Bloomsbury Books. I entered my ISBN and got this edition, oh well…Anyway I've only read a few stories so far but what I've read I've enjoyed. Not everyone will want all the poems or non-horror tales like Von Kempelen and His Discovery which is rather long winded and tedious but on the whole, great stuff! Pit and the Pendulumn, The Raven, Leonore and The Tell-tale Heart are superb pieces!
I read 5 short stories and The Raven so I didn't read the entire thing.... Poe was quite the author.
Edgar Allen Poe lived a difficult life, and his suffering informs the darkness of his work.
As an author, I believe suffering informs my work.
This is not to say you have to suffer to write well.
Or that you should look to suffer.
Edgar Allen Poe's writing inspires me like no other.
And yet there is this way in which shadows have a tendency of amplifying the light.
Because the darkness amplifies the light.
Poe is a great place for young readers to cultivate a love for the written word.
Poe is a master.
If you hope to write, let the masters mentor you.
Poe is a brilliant poet, although some of his short stories and poems are quite morbid. They're very interesting, and well written. I really wish that he hadn't died so early in his life, because his poetry was a burst of creative genius.
Classic. Subtle, haunting and absolutely beautiful. The creative mind this man had is absolutely incredible and I enjoy reading his works over and over. You get something new out of each of his poems and stories each time you read them. I highly recommend everyone reads at least his well known works, especially fans of the macabre and darker themes.
who doesnt like poe???
Excellent formatting book with excellently editing. Genuine must read this book.
HRV: Potpuni genij, Poeova djela ostaju s tobom dugo nakon čitanja.ENG An absolute genious, Poe's works stay with you long after you've read them.
In “The Gold Bug” by Edgar Allan Poe, there are the characters of Legrand, a man who lives on a small island off the coast of South Carolina and lost all his family’s fortune; Jupiter, Legrand’s African American assistant who lives with him; and the narrator.
In “The Tell-Tale Heart,” we are introduced to the narrator and an old man with a blind eye.
Every day, he pokes his head in with a covered lantern, watching the old man.Edgar Allan Poe’s stories make use of text structures and order of events to promote feelings of mystery.
Edgar Allen Poe is definitely the 1800s version of Stephen King. What a dark mind! But what great stories comes from it! I'm not into poetry so didn't read much of that section but like his most famous one, The Raven. I read most of the stories. Some are short and some are quite long. Here are favorites: The Oval Portrait, The Oblong Box, The Gold Bug, The Lighthouse, The Masque of the Red Death and The Murders in the Rue Morgue. But be warned! This is a complete collection--everything Poe ever wrote--and he was very prolific!
After almost a year, I am so happy to say that I finally finished this book!
Of course, the poetry and short stories were pure genius awesomeness, but the critics and letters were hell, and I admit I skipped a lot.
Still, I think this edition was really good, with almost no typos at all, which is a rarity for that kind of cheap e-books.
Because of the price, because it is so complete, and because I feel like one needs an anthology of Poe's work in their book collection, I would totally recommend it, just don't feel guilty about skipping the parts that are less interesting to you!
I started reading Edgar Allen Poe, aged 17, in a rowing boat. No joke. I had a summer job at a vast inland boating lake, and I'd row out to an island and sit there reading EAP. My brother had given me a tiny volume. It seemed a million miles away from my provincial existence, and, of course - it is. Dupin, and all his work, are classics. Prior to this I think I'd read a fair bit of Conan Doyle too, but I digress. I don't see how you could give EAP anything less than 5 stars.
Was Poe a master of his craft? At his best moments, this is an undeniable fact... But at his worst, and he was at his worst often, he comes across as a bit of a hack. Few beloved writers in the literary canon are as inconsistent as Poe, with dizzying highs and embarrassing lows. Anyone other than scholars and completists will be best served with a collection of Poe's best stories and poems, but there's much more here; some good, some just pathetic.
to read his works now as an adult, sheds new light on his genius. to see such a tormented soul lament his lost love, life and talent. the epitome of not appreciated talent. we will never have another, like him.
Main character: none availableTheme: this book is so emo, usually love or loneliness and pain and darkness and suffering and swag money
The ninth stanza says: "My tantalized spirit here blandly reposes." The truth and beauty of Annie is God's grace, but it is only a dream, a fancy.The narrator at this point falls asleep.
Awesome way to question one's sanity
POEMS"Astarte's bediamonded crescentDistinct with its duplicate hornAnd I said: 'She is warmer than Dian:She rolls through and ether of sighs--She revels in a region of sighs:She has seen that the tears are not dry onThese cheeks, where the worm never dies,And has come past the stars of the LionTo point us the path to the skies--To the Lethean peace of the skies--Come up, in despite of the LionTo shine on us with her bright eyes--Come up through the lair of the Lion,With love in her luminous eyes.' " -Ulalume"But lo, a stir is in the air!The wave--there is a movement there!As if the towers had thrust aside,In slightly sinking, the dull tide--As if their tops had feebly givenA void within the filmy Heaven.The waves have now a redder glow--The hours are breathing faint and low--And when, amid no earthly moans,Down, down that town shall settle hence,Hell, rising from a thousand thrones,Shall do it reverence." -The City In The Sea"By a route obscure and lonelyHaunted by ill angels only,Where an Eidolon, named NIGHT,One a black throne reigns upright,I have reached these lands but newlyFrom an ultimate dim Thrule--From a wild weird clime that lieth, sublime,OUT OF SPACE--out of TIME.
Well, you need a really focus mind and a full attention to read (and understand) his stories, lol. But despite of the hardy understanding of his stories (it's common for a very classic stories like this, tho), I love all the horror, mysterious, and intriguing theme that he built here. However, 5 stars should be given since this was the topic of my thesis which has made me graduated. Yeay! xD
I read this in 7th grade because I am a sicko. But I feel like if my 12 year old self liked this enough to read the whole thing it deserves 5 stars. Although I might have picked it to help accumulate credit toward some Six-Flags sponsored reading challenge so that I could score some free theme park tix.
4,5⭐! reading the horror tales from Edgar Allan Poe while listening to its audiobook definitely an awesome idea to live the horror vibes! but also a terrible one, as the disturbing sounds you heard from the audiobook will haunting you in your sleep🙃
4,5⭐️! reading the horror tales from Edgar Allan Poe while listening to its audiobook definitely an awesome idea to live the horror vibes! but also a terrible one, as the disturbing sounds you heard from the audiobook will haunting you in your sleep🙃
This is a good book that includes some of Poe's works that I had read before and some new ones I had not. The stories are interesting and written in literary fiction. In many, the descriptions are verbose and complicated. If you like those kinds of stories this is the book for you.
Poetry: Famous for hypnotic sound effects in his poetry, Poe marshals internal rhyme, onomatopoeia, assonance, and consonance to great effect. The feeling is eerie, unsettling, and melancholy--more, evermore, nothing more, nevermore.
The many tales of Edgar Allan Poe are perfect for this Halloween season.
