https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/926984.Theory_of_Literature
Za njeno razumevanje potrebno je ogromno poznavanje engleske književnosti, poezije prevashodno, što je meni falilio, takođe i navođenje teoretičara knjioževnosti, za koje nikad nisam čuo, pa i eksperata iz drugih oblasti, kao što su psihologija, sociologija, istorija...
Sve ovo čini knjigu nekom vrste metateorije književnosti, koja daje detaljan, interdisciplinarni pregled iz anglosaksonske vizure, jer su uglavnom dela iz tog kraja sveta navedena kao primeri za objašnjenje različitih pojmova i užih oblasti.Neki delovi daju možda preterana objašnjenja, deluje kao da je sve moglo napisati kraće, da bi to bilo efikasnije, i pomalo izgleda da su se autori tautološki zapleli.
Wellek and Warren are very fair to a variety of approaches, stressing the importance of not only close reading, but of textual criticism, the development of convention, and the recognition of fluid boundaries between "literature" and other varieties of writing.
Amazingly, in the '40s, they noted the disunity of "national" and "single-language" literary traditions, looking instead at both regionalisms and boundary-crossings.A few negative points: despite their careful discussion of the definition of "literature," in practice they draw almost all of their examples from the canon.
Definitions of a few key terms are taken for granted (like "norm" when they define a poem as "a structure of norms").
According to Wellek, the work was written with the idea between Warren and himself that “we should rather combine our forces to produce a book which would formulate a theory of literature with an emphasis on the aesthetic fact which cannot be divorced from evaluation and hence from criticism.”]There are familiarities with Russian formalism, the Prague Linguistic Circle, the phenomenology of Roman Ingarden, and the movements of German Geistesgeschichte and stylistics.
Warren and Wellek discuss an extrinsic approach to the study of literature involving approaching literature from perspectives of biography, psychology, society, ideas, and other arts.
I was so happy that I did not have to read it once again when I passed my exam on basics of literary history.... I had the Dutch version, the translators did a good job, but a very tough book stays a very tough book. It is very abstract, despite the writers added examples. No, I keep it, for old times sake, but not to read again.
First published in 1947, this book is a well organized classic of literary critism.
It is amazing to realize how closely related, and multi-faceted styles and ways of studying other disciplines inform literature.
Although this book explores literatary style in many different ways I was particularly excited about how composition of literature is similar to composition of music and other art forms.
Euphony, rhythm, metre, style, image,symbol and myth inform all the arts.
Reading this book has given me a broader understanding of the universality of all human creation.
I love books that do that.

I recall this being the Bible of the Yale objectivist school of Literary Analysis, from which the Chicago School broke in 1952 with Critics and Criticism.....But perhaps that was another title altogether.....Seven Types of Ambiguity ?
Creo que está claro que por gusto no lo leería. Me ha resultado muy muy pesado aunque admito que algunas partes me han resultado interesantes. Pero también tengo que mencionar que encuentro excesivas las miles de referencias que hay a lo largo de todo el libro.
What a nerd I am. This is one of my favorite books.
This is for my class of Theory and Critic of Literature in college, and gotta say that sometimes I will likely fell asleep. (Because I could get to be an annoyingly un respectful human being) I'm learning and challenging myself. Merging into a seriousness never experienced before and glad for it. This book just the beginning, a brick of the great construction of my mind. I have seen literature with other eyes and even though sometimes orthodox I liked the way it was played. Good one Wellek and Warren.
میتوانم بگویم برای من انتخاب اشتباهی بوداین کتاب بیشتر برای یک محقق ادبی نوشته شده تا یک علاقهمند به نظریه و نقد ادبیبا این وجود نکات قابل توجهی در این کتاب یافت میشود، مخصوصا در بخش دوم و مهم تر از همه فصل ارزیابی
می‌توانم بگویم برای من انتخاب اشتباهی بوداین کتاب بیشتر برای یک محقق ادبی نوشته شده تا یک علاقه‌مند به نظریه و نقد ادبیبا این وجود نکات قابل توجهی در این کتاب یافت می‌شود، مخصوصا در بخش دوم و مهم تر از همه فصل ارزیابی
Casi setenta años después de su publicación original, no deja de ser interesante su forma de abordar la literatura y de entender la crítica literaria. Muy recomendable.
Solid if many decades dated intro to the field.
Wellek and Austin's book is something of a strange read in 2017 - the authors they quote are almost all male and the theory itself seems so outdated that it is cute. It is an achievement and not a really bad read but much more interesting books about this topic have been written since, some with concrete examples, which are severely lacking in this book.
Fue una lectura obligada mientras estudiaba Literatura en la universidad. Es un excelente libro para conocer la historia literaria y algunas de sus corrientes. Sin embargo, fue aburrido para mí. No es una obra que volvería a leer por placer.
most complete literature theory book lol
good
this book very good to finished my thesis
763 - 2016
I need this book to do my thesis.
Es un libro clásico sobre teoría literaria, de importancia decisiva para litgeratos y público en general
A major work of introduction to comparative literature.
