https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/34521.Only_You_Can_Save_Mankind
The big theme of war being real and not a game was a bit preachy, but maybe that's because it's aimed at the YA audience.Then the author touches on universal problems faced by kids everywhere: parents on the verge of a break up, trying to fit in with the other kids, surviving in the inner city, etc.
But since these are not the main story, he never goes anywhere with them.I wasn't entirely riveted by the main story either.
It starts well with the aliens surrendering, but it was too slow after that for me.
Better with age.Older ReviewConsidering the popularity of first person shooters, this book is still very timely. It's Pratchett, it's funny and delivers a message. Kristi is the protype of Hermonie. Enjoyable.A really good what if type of a story, especially if you ever played Space Invaders. There are a couple questions concerning the aliens and the game that Pratchett doesn't answer.
Another great story by Pratchett. He must wake up every morning and think, "What should I make fun of today?" And then he proceeds with mockery while sneaking in valuable social insights. This book is shorter than most of his other books, but it made for great audiobook listening on a four-hour road trip.
The main character in the book, Johnny, cared a bit more than I did, but felt basically the same-- these images carried no meaning, as bland and removed from life as an old, out of date video game.
There's one hugely funny bit where Johnny defines sexism for the ScreeWee Captain: " "It just means you should treat people as people and, you know...
not just assume girls can't do stuff.
There's lots of stuff girls can't do, but you've got to pretend they can, so that more of them will.
But that's just girls' stuff," said Johnny."
The captain of the alien fleet that Johnny is supposed to shoot up surrenders to him–unheard of in a computer game–and soon after that all of the aliens from all copies of the game have vanished.
Johnny also discovers that he is able to enter the alien ship in dreams and grows convinced that the aliens are somehow real, and are actually dying when human players shoot at them.
This is the first in a trilogy published in England; U.S. editions of Johnny and the Dead and Johnny and the Bomb will soon follow.I read this because I so thoroughly enjoyed Terry Pratchett's book Thud!
And the question of what is reality comes up repeatedly, from Johnny wondering if the human players he kills in defending the aliens suffer to Johnny and "Sigourney" altering the alien ship through their desires because it's all in their heads...or is it?It's a quick read, and I enjoyed it enough to move on to the next immediately.
While Pratchett's main productions are Fantasy he occasionally tinkered in the scifi genre.
This is the first part of a trilogy , based around a weird kid called Johnny Maxwell.The book is fun and quite cheeky and still has the common Pratchett approach of turning things on their head to make you see things differently.
In this case he completely reverses the basic concepts of an Alien shooter computer game, starting with the premise that the Aliens don't want to die and decide to surrender and claim their rights under the Geneva convention.
From BBC Radio 4 Extra:Sci-fi drama from Terry Pratchett.This is not my cup of tea.
I like Sir Terry's writing.
This book isn't quite so good.Oh, there are some laughs and the plot while not totally new (that the "world inside games is real in it's own way") is a good one.
The young man playing a new computer game is busy fighting his way through the "enemy alien fleet", he's made it to the huge mother-ship...and they surrender.
Humm.Yes good idea and as I said some good humor.But not as much as I would usually expect.
Okay but far from Sir Terry's best.However I do wish him the best.
Oh, and because it’s Terry Pratchett.I was surprised by this book.
It’s definitely short but not as light as I was expecting.
You don’t need to save mankind from aliens.
You need to save mankind from…well, mankind.
Only You Can Save Mankind is about war and Johnny Maxwell coping with it.
It’s about the difference between reality and a dream.
Or, to be more precise, it’s about the similarity of reality and dreams.
And it’s about that all of us are not so different.
This book is a great way to talk about war.
Because aliens are people too.
I'm giving this an even 3 stars. Highly enjoyable; reminds me of an 80's movie called The Last Straighter. I think this would have been brilliant even more fleshed out. We meet Johnny and his friends Yo-less, Big Mac, and Wobbler. Johnny makes a new friend Kirsty along the way.What happens when you play video games? What happens when you defeat enemies? What happens if they want to surrender?Johnny Maxwell finds out. Games are hard; life is harder in Trying Times.
The crew wasn't really fleshed, but various topics were addressed, like dealing with familial difficulties, and I liked how the friends were different but fitted with each others.
If the writing didn't have a distinct Pratchett's touch in my opinion, on another hand the focus on "there are 2 sides to a war" felt very much like a societal topic important to discuss, and we know how much he liked those.
Following Johnny's adventures wasn't outstanding, but the boy had heart and the story was entertaining, even if it felt outdated on the technological side.
Appropriate reading for teens and adults, like most of Pratchett's work, I'd heartily recommend this quick read to anyone.The book does an effective job of portraying the early 90s computer gamers.
I was especially taken by the nostalgia of it all as I myself was roughly Johnny's age during that first Iraq war and often in front of a computer screen.By the end, I realized all the ideas that Pratchett had embedded in this narrative and his young protagonist.
Pratchett does a masterful job of presenting these ideas in a fairly light-hearted and engaging tale of a young boy playing video games alone in his bedroom.
If not you, who else?Many people who are worried about female role models love Terry Pratchett because he has a LOT of realistic female characters of varying ages and sizes.
While I fiercely love his women, I think his male character are underrated as role-models, especially the hero of my childhood Johnny Maxwell, who is thoughtful, empathic and generally favours non-confrontative and clever approaches to his otherworldly problems.
I think this book is Johnny Maxwell at his most action-prone, but there is no gratuity.
Even when he is playing computer games, there is war and conflict, as he and other game players launch into outer space to defeat the aliens in the game "Only You Can Save Mankind." But when Johnny gets a message of surrender on his computer from the aliens (the Scree Wee) in the game, he is confused because that isn't what is supposed to happen.
He is supposed to kill the Scree Wee and level up.
How can he stop all the other human game players from shooting and killing them?
"Only You Can Save Mankind" is a very simple book, a book for teenagers that can be enjoyed by everyone, with his trademark sharp and witty comments about humanity and society.Johnny is playing the video game 'Only You Can Save Mankind'.
Keep shooting or trying to help the aliens to go back home?The novel is simple, quite straightforward and in for a little bit, quite repetitive as we get Johnny playing and playing, the vocabulary and descriptions all more or less the same.
Pratchett was really good at this kind of commentary and here he shines again, even if in a more tone down environment."Only You Can Save Mankind".
Even though this is a children's book it was still enjoyable to read and this is probably because its still a terry Pratchett novel. The book follows the character Johnny who instead of killing the aliens in his computer game accepts their surrender. He's joined by his friends and gets help in game by sigourney a kick ass girl. Lots of fun Pratchett style follows. This would be perfect for your younger children as well.
Wasn't sure if I would enjoy this but I really did.Kind of dated in a way but I remember those sorts of computer games.Liked the character of Johnny.Classic Terry Pratchett humour, lots of funny bits and very cleverly written.Looking forward to reading the other books in the series.
Apparently Goodreads didn't save my review... The short version: I love this book. It's a quick read. Give it a try!
Love Pratchett's writing! Really easy to get in to!
All of them are available on audio.SUMMARY:Like most Pratchett book, this one is a pleasure to read for people who love interesting characters.Note: It takes place during the first Gulf War; so you might need to explain who "Stormin' Norman" is, and other such things, to children who are going to read it.
Her character can be summed up by saying that Sigourney Weaver is her hero.There is a fun cast of quirky supporting characters that includes Johnny's 3 best friends (this is definitely the "left-overs" clique) and the Scree Wee captain.WORLDBUILDING:This is Gulf War era small-town England.
But now he has both power and responsibility, as little as he thinks he wants either.It's always been just a game to him; kill the aliens and advance to the next level.
Johnny has the challenge of not just helping them, but learning to see them as people instead of just "things." Because it's all too easy to kill a thing.
When you let that "thing" become a person to you, become real instead of an object, then it's not easy anymore.And that's the lesson here, in a story where the first Gulf War is always on the TVs and being discussed in the background.
Mai departe, ne spune cum ar trebui să luăm războaiele în serios, căci ele nu sunt doar niște jocuri sau imagini pe ecranul televizorului.
Și poate că nu se limitează la războaie...Mi s-a părut destul de greu de citit, deși a avut umorul specific lui Terry Pratchett.
Personajul principal este Johnny Maxwell, un copil de 12 ani care joacă un joc video numit Doar Tu Poți Salva Omenirea.
Acolo, personajele din joc comunică cu el iar Johnny decide să îi ajute să scape...
Recomand cartea fanilor lui Pratchett, bineînțeles, și poate celor pasionați de extratereștri și cărți middle grade.
At times a young adult book can fall into the trap of dumbing down the content, adding a love triangle (though that is usually more common in teen books) or talking down to its audience.
Luckily the only real difference between an "adult" and "YA" novel is it has chapters and sometimes a younger protagonist.
The basis premis of the book, the aliens you're supposed to fight in a computer game surrender and ask you to save them, is interesting and a good one.
This book is deep and very thought provoking.
Jednodenní četba a zároveň velké nadšení. Od Pratchetta jsem četl úplně všechno. Včetně různých kuchařek a vystřihovánek. Tak mě překvapuje, že si nepamatuju příběh této knihy. Ale kdo ví, má paměť je v tomto velmi podivná... Každopádně super. Humor, sci-fi, dobrodružství, odkazy na všechno možné a zároveň několik velmi těžkých témat od války po rodinné problémy. A to vše podané velmi lehce a jakoby mimochodem. Ani jsem to od této malinké knížky nečekal...EDIT: Už vím, co mi to připomíná. Pratchettovu verzi knihy Enderova hra - a nutno říct, že tuto knížečku i odkazované dílo mám moc rád.
Pratchett's tinkering in the SciFi genre has created another brilliant read.
'Only You Can Save Mankind' is the first part the Johnny Maxwell trilogy, based around a 12 year old boy called Johnny Maxwell.
Only You Can Save Mankind is based around a computer game where the aliens no longer wish to be shot and surrender to Johnny, claiming their rights written in the Geneva convention.The book is a fun, cheeky and overall entertaining read and Pratchett once again has been able to write in a style which turns things on their head to make you see things differently.I would highly recommend this book!!
"Sólo tú puedes salvar a la humanidad" es esa novela que recomendaría a los niños y adolescentes que aborrecen la lectura por los libros que les obligan a leer en el colegio.
Es una historia adictiva, ligera, llena del humor mordaz característico de Terry que, además, conecta muy bien con la subcultura jugona.
Hace reflexionar, además, sobre temas como el sexismo, la marginación social y la autoestima.
Me encanta cómo hace que un videojuego rompa la cuarta barrera e invite al héroe a plantearse su papel de salvador.
Es una lectura que un adulto puede disfrutar, pero que un niño gozará mucho más y que, además, le enriquecerá.
Brilliant, brilliant, brilliant, the way Terry Pratchett packaged a whole bunch of issues in one smart subtle brouhaha that ends wonderfully.
It's like getting a talking to in a way that you'd actually enjoy and ask for with characters that are terribly human.
I read this at work and spent three hours glued to the story, only lifting my head to refresh outlook (just in case I do get an assignment.
One must read with a clear conscious).
I'm pretty sure it isn't everyone's cup of tea, and is probably another hit/miss book, but I'm very glad I bought it for my brother.

Ein Junge bekommt ein Spiel und fängt an zu Halluzinieren....oder nicht?Für eine Gamerin wie mich war das Buch spannend. Die Idee, dass die Figuren in einem Spiel in Wirklichkeit existieren und man diese tatsächlich tötet, habe ich so noch nie gelesen.Johnny, der Held des Buches, spielt also ein "Alien töten" Spiel und fängt in seinen Träumen an, mit diesen zu kommunizieren. Im verlaufe des Buchs stellt sich für ihn dann heraus, dass es wohl doch keine Träume sind.Und ein Mädchen taucht d auch noch plötzlich auf und will ihm seinen Highscore streitig machen? Also mir hat es gefallen. :)
