https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/106597.Lincoln
Douglas had his success, his entourage, his brandy and cigars, and "Lincoln, tall and gangly, seemed plain in his rumpled suit, carrying his notes and speeches in an old carpetbag, sitting on the platform with his bony knees jutting into the air." I cried that Frederick Douglass, the most influential black leader at the time, who originally criticized Lincoln for not doing enough, ultimately changed his mind and said of him, "He was the first great man that I talked with in the United States freely, who in no single instance reminded me of the difference between himself and myself, of the difference of color."Lincoln wasn't just the Great Emancipator, he was a man who was tasked with a nightmare: to break apart a nation to make it whole again.
This book helped me so much with my course on the Civil War. This book made everything so clear and it was so easy to read.
Before I was confused on what the Civil War was actually over.
But this book has it explained so clearly that I know precisely what to write about in my assignment due in a few weeks.Besides from the Civil War, I got to know a great deal more than I did before about Lincoln.
This book was absolutely fantastic.
It's for middle grade readers and the tone and vocabulary is perfect - it's not dumbed down but kids still get it.
It did start tugging at my heartstrings to read about the Civil War and see the effects it had on him as this book had 5 portraits taken within the first 6 months of the war -- the man aged two decades!
Now I really have to make a DC trip even more than I wanted to before!I would recommend this book for everyone!p.s. Just bought this off of Amazon Marketplace for $4 (freeship).
I've always want to read Abraham Lincoln biography and at last, I did it!
Before this, all I know that he was one of the U.S president and that's it.
As I grew older, I get to know that he was the one that abolished slavery, saw a movie about his assassination (the Spielberg's) and watched one documentary a few years back.
This book tells the story about Lincoln from the day he was born to the day he died.
Plus, the author also provided a list of books for further reading about Abraham Lincoln and I'm sure do want to read more!
Although relatively simple in its writing style, it left nothing of importance out in terms of "oh, a child couldn't possibly understand!"As an adult who studied history as any other student throughout school, I never really paid attention to Lincoln in any way other than knowing that he is on the penny and the five dollar bill and abolished slavery.
Freedman's account opened up whole new worlds of understanding that brilliantly blazed the simple but amazing life of a man who loved books and what they taught him and vowed to do good in the world until he couldn't anymore.
Now this is what I think of what I think "good biography".
Unlike Daniel Boone (the dreadfully racist and worshipful 1940 Newbery Medal winner), Freedman treats Lincoln as a real person and a true hero.
The huge collection of pictures promote wider appeal and enhance the experience greatly.
I love the "Lincoln Sampler" in the end, which features a collection of both well and lesser known quotes.
An extremely recommended biography, and one of solid deservedness for the Newbery, even though it may be nonfiction.
Well-written, informative, and fascinating. I loved seeing pictures of Lincoln's life. It gave me a whole new perspective on Abraham Lincoln and the Civil War. This book won the Newbery Award so I know it was written for teens, but I thoroughly enjoyed it as an adult who is not a big history buff. I can handle 130 pages riddled with photographs. This is my kind of history.
I keep hearing people say that the civil war wasn't about slavery when the entire reason for the war was that the north was trying to prevent the spread of slavery into the western territory and the south was fighting to spread slavery.
Before that, the plan was to let slavery slowly die, but, the south wanted to expand it.
He has told me the war wasn't about slavery so many times I started to actually believe it.
While it is written for kids, it has enough information to be perfect for an adult who doesn't want a 500 page book filled with every detail.
I have definitely learn a whole bunch of facts about Abraham Lincoln that totally blew my mind.
At the point of me reading this photo biography, I had been learning about the Civil War and Abe Lincoln's presidency which was one of the reasons I picked this book up; to learn more about the character I had previously been learning about.
This book secured a lot of the facts that I had misconceived about, while learning about Abraham Lincoln.
His life is just truly extraordinary and you will be amazed too if you read this mindbogglingly book.
It is shocking to read about the life of a human that was born in the 19th century not just Abraham.
I recommend this book to Social Studies teachers who teach seventh through 12th grade.
Especially Social Studies teachers who teach United States History and the Civil War. This books follows the life of President Lincoln.
There is a great focus on the Civil War, and his roles during the Civil War. With primary quotes and photographs and loaded with information and content, students can learn a great deal about President Lincoln.
At the end of the book are additional resources like "A Lincoln Sampler" which are some of his famous quotes, list and descriptions of Lincoln memorials, monuments, and museums, and more books about Lincoln.
For a photobiography, this audiobook was very good. I'll page through my hard copy at some point to enjoy the pictures. The Civil War is covered at enough distance to make sense as an overview- not every battle, not every decision, just the generals and the big names. A final section of selected quotes is OK, but it might have been improved with a complete version of the Gettysburg Address. There is no discussion of Lincoln's legacy or anything like that, which is fine.
Good, easy read. I enjoyed the pictures and the basic information it gave about Lincoln’s life. I really liked that so many quotes from people who knew Lincoln were included, it helped me relate to him more personally.
Not bad. Kind of like an early Steve Sheinkin. Don’t know why it was called a “photobiography”, though.
Lincoln: A Photobiography maintains a formal narrative distance from the reader, yet manages to string out a captivating life, up to the point where I was sobbing at the death I knew from the beginning would end the tale.
As at the moment, I have an awe-inspiring 5th grader who is gobbling up biographies and US history books like they were M&Ms. She got her hands on the book before I had a chance to pull it, and I needed to beg to get it back.
The author draws the reader in with his tales of Lincoln's adventure down the Ohio River to New Orleans, his struggles to make his own way in the world apart from his family and his break-up and ultimate marriage to Mary Todd.As the United States prepares for another presidential election, spend some time learning about one of the most courageous presidents America has ever had and read "Lincoln: A Photobiography" by Russell Freedman.Read more of this review: http://www.examiner.com/review/lincol...
This book tells a detailed story about Abraham Lincoln and is accompanied by 90 black and white photographs and prints.
It provides a detailed and vivid look at the life and times of Abraham Lincoln and also mentions other great leaders during this time period.This book was enjoyable, interesting, and intriguing, but also a little dry.
It gave a very detailed look at Lincoln’s life and contributions.
The 90 photographs which accompanied the text helped draw the reader in, and added to the credibility and appeal of the book.
1) Genre: Junior Book Biography2) Summary: This book gives an interesting account of Lincoln’s legacy from his early childhood to his role as the 16th president through text and actual black and white photographs.
3) Critique:a) I enjoyed the actual black and white photographs found within the book.
b) The actual photographs really enhanced the biography by making it relatable to the reader.
c) I really liked the actual written text of Lincoln’s autobiography (pg.
It made him seem like an actual person that had his own thoughts/perceptions, an idea many children may overlook because they put him on a higher pedestal since he was a president.
Lincoln is presented here as I have never seen him, in both text and photographs.
The details about him surprised me; I knew, of course, that he was extremely tall and had had a limited formal education, but I had no idea his voice was high pitched and that he had so much trouble finding a good general during the Civil War and that he was shy.
The Civil War years were a revelation.
Poor Lincoln went through general after general who was afraid to act.
And Lincoln’s assassination was so unexpected, coming so close to the end of the war.

Nicely writtenWonderfully written biography about Abraham Lincoln. I enjoyed the pictures included in this book. I definitely recommend reading this book.
1988 Newberry Medal winner. It was a great, age appropriate biography of a great president. The pictures are amazing for the time period.
I like how it offered very in depth info on President Lincoln's life.
This is a great summary of Lincoln's life. This book is great for anyone who wants to brush up on Lincoln's life and for children that want to learn their history.
Not my style had to read for school
This book gives such insight to the life of such a wonderful president!
Numerous conflicts break out, and Lincoln is always involved, from being part of the local militia to fend off an invasion by Native Americans (surviving plenty of mosquitoes), to protesting the Mexican-American War, and eventually leading the Civil War. A short section departs from the book and weaves in the situation and perception of slavery and its spread.
On the issue of slavery, Lincoln is not the expected crusader who fought for emancipation from the time he first held office, but one who recognized at the time that such a view was a political third rail, and therefore always was careful to watch his words.
I consider Abraham Lincoln to be the greatest leader in the history of the US.
Lincoln was considered wealthy by the time he ran for the Illinois Senate in 1858.
And there’s more that could be said about Lincoln’s complicated view of race.
Freedman makes Lincoln sound much more progressive than he may actually have been.
There’s so much more that can and has been said about Lincoln.
But there’s only so much space Freedman can devote to his text, when considering his school-age audience.
And there’s the space needed for the photos that make this book so successful.
This book is great for all ages and includes over 50 photographs and prints.
It provides a detailed and vivid look at the life and times of Abraham Lincoln and mentions other great leaders during that time period.
Abraham Lincoln can be viewed in this book through pictures and text which is awesome because you aren’t just reading, you have an image to go along with it at points as well.
A lot of things in this reading surprised me and introduced me to stuff I never knew about Abraham Lincoln.
The Civil War years were a revelation.
I've read different biographies written on President Abraham Lincoln before, but this photo-biography was definitely ALOT more enjoyable.
As the author took us through the life of Honest Abe, from his humble childhood to his journey to presidency and the trials that came with such a heavy burden.
The photos included in the book follow the plot and sequence of his life perfectly and are paired wonderfully with the text, allowing the reader a visual insight into what they've just read.
All in all, it was an amazing book that provided a complete picture of this great mans life, from start to finish.
This means a good part of that reading involves Lincoln, simply because he is such a powerful figure in our nation's development.
I can't imagine how he did it, but Freedman wrote a wonderful bio of Lincoln which young adults should be able to read without much difficulty.
I suspect it is also the sort of of biography which might lead many to want to read more, in some cases much more.
Additionally, I can see this book as a great book for middle school teachers to use to connect an 8th grade American history class with an 8th grade English class.
