https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/371301.The_Great_Siege
”The Great Siege of Malta was one of the decisive actions in the history of the Mediterranean—indeed, of the Western World. ‘Nothing is better known than the siege of Malta,’ remarked Voltaire.”  Reading about the Great Siege of Malta in 1565 kept me up way past my bedtime last night. What an interesting and indeed thrilling account of this momentous event.At the age of seventy, Suleiman(1) the Magnificent, mighty leader of the Ottoman Empire, cast his eyes on Malta, stepping stone to the Kingd
What an interesting and indeed thrilling account of this momentous event.At the age of seventy, Suleiman(1) the Magnificent, mighty leader of the Ottoman Empire, cast his eyes on Malta, stepping stone to the Kingdoms of Sicily and Naples as well as home to the Knights of St John, an order of Hospitallers(2).
In 1522 Suleiman had forced them to leave Rhodes, and in 1530 Malta was granted to them by the Holy Roman Emperor Charles V in exchange for an annual fee of a Maltese falcon which had to be given to the Viceroy of Sicily.
It proved to be WAY more than that!The Ottoman Empire tried to invade the island of Malta, then held by the Knights Hospitaller, as a means to set up a base for their fleet in order to make further attacks upon western Europe.
Bradford teases out the tension without dragging out the action, and what action!
His character sketches put you in the shoes of those making the fateful decisions and those carrying out the orders of an epic battle fought in a past distant and hazy enough to make accurate portrayals quite difficult.If I recommended this any more I'm afraid I'd pull a muscle!
I always get excited over any sea battle that utilizes wild fire!An absolute massacre how can any victor truly be proclaimed? The Knights of St. John against the Turks LETS GET READY TO RUMBLE!!! Probably the bloodiest religious battle of the ages consisting of some serious siege craft.
Glorious bloody Renaissance warfare at it's best!!This non fiction book flowed like a story and was incredibly entertaining for me. The battles scenes were brutally descriptive and the author painted a really great description of the key players on both sides. Highly recommended for any fan of history and/or military stories.
Ernle Bradford's book on the Turkish siege of Malta in 1565 is not a detailed scholarly study of the subject, though the subject could use one.
There is some examination of the Turkish and Spanish activities and reasoning, but this is a more minor part of the book, which is focused on the siege itself.
There is also a little about the native Maltese, but Bradford points out that their activities mostly only live in local legends.Crowley's excellent 
uses this book as his main source for his section on the siege of Malta.
Otherwise, I recommend Empires of the Sea, which is more vivid and wide-ranging in subject.
10 JUL 2017 - a small treasure found whilst unpacking.14 JULY 2017 - I read past my bed-time and during lunch at work. I loved this one!
Few history books grip the reader so well.
It is fast-paced, and you keep abreast of one of the more important siege battles in history.I first read this book in 1998, and could not put it down.
What else can you expect?A group of Christian knights, plus about 8,000 Maltese against the might of the Ottoman Empire.
There was no love at all between implacable enemies.This was a time when both Muslim and Christian thought it was his duty to send his opponent to hell.
And in a war that seemed like hell on earth for the Christians, the Turks eventually set sail for home without obtaining their objective.
Good history of the dramatic attack on Malta in 1565. Each side has a larger-than-life leader to anchor the story. Short chapters make it easy to read a little at a time. Once the siege begins there's lots of action to keep the story moving quickly.I would have rated the book a star higher but the writing style felt slightly dated to me. I would recommend this highly to fans of military history.
He subsequently came to know the Island of Malta intimately, living and sailing around every part of the small rocky archipelago and developing an affection for both the nation and its people that would eventually lead to the publication of this gripping and emotional account of the 1565 siege of Malta.This is narrative history at its best; a fast-flowing depiction of the origins of the siege, through to the siege itself, and concluding with the aftermath and the implications for the wider Mediterranean and Europe.
All in all, a very readable and highly enjoyable account of a seminal event in world history.
This is nonfiction, but you won't believe it, written by a non academic, which is even harder to believe.
It's an account of one of the truly great sieges.What are the great sieges?
Troy, Tyre facing Alexander, the zillion sieges of Syracuse, the Spartans both at Thermopylae and maybe later, taking it up the Sphacteria, and...
Malta, 1565.The Knights of St. John defending their tiny island against the fabulous forces of Sultan Soleyman the Magnificent at the height of the Ottoman empire.
Stunning cunning, incredulous courage, pinpoint planning and counter confounding lead to a see-saw slug fest that's breathlessly eye popping and forever unforgettable.
The narrative is replete with descriptions of the "savage attacks of the Moslem corsairs", how the Muslim commanders would "sacrifice thousands upon thousands of men with a callous indifference" in order to win a battle, which the author describes as characteristic of "the bloodstained history of their Empire", and constant descriptions of the religious zealotry of the Ottoman forces.
The Ottoman Turks attacked Malta in the hopes of using it as a base from which to attack Sicily and then mainland Europe, the so-called "soft underbelly." Fortunately for Europe, The Knights of St. John had been given the island by the King of Spain to defend against such an attack.
The story of the siege is one of the most remarkable and neglected stories in Christendom.The Knights of St. John were a a group created to serve and defend pilgrims against the enemies of Christianity--namely Muslims.
Very detailed and informative. The author made you feel that you were in there. I loved it!
Para acabar con esta plaga cristiana, Solimán decide acabar con los Hospitalarios atacando la isla con un ejército de más de 40 mil hombres y un centenar de galeones.La Valette se entera por sus informantes que el sitio comenzará en mayo de 1565, que sólo cuenta con unos 9 mil hombres y 3 o 4 fuertes que se encuentran en muy malas condiciones, para la defensa de la isla.El autor detalla como estaba integrada la aristocrática Orden, quienes la componían, cuáles requisitos se llenaban para formar parte de ella; qué labores llevaban al cabo, es decir, atendían enfermos y hacían la guerra, pero este orden de cosas cambiaba según el caso.
Sultan Solyman is convinced, once the island falls, he will be able to continue his quest of glory and the abolition of Christianity forever.
He and his Knights will stand fast and protect the faith, even if it means every last person on the island is annihilated.
La Vellete’s ability to recognize that if the Grand Harbor falls, so does Malta, he took to an aggressive plan of build Fort St. Elmo on the knoll overlooking the harbor.
Yes, the fort finally succumbed to the overwhelming weight of the attacks, but at a cost that couldn’t be replaced.
Stopping the horde at Malta, Vienna, and Lepanto were what kept common law, our system, and our civilization alive.The crusader Order of Knights of the Hospital of Saint John of Jerusalem, had been driven from Jerusalem, and then from Rhodes by the Muslims.
Moreover, his way up through Sicily to Rome would have been clear if he could rid the islands of the Hospitallers.He selected his finest army commander, Mustapha Pasha, joined with his son-in-law Piali Pasha as the naval commander, and with the legendary corsair Dragut, to lead a huge force of men and ships against Malta.
I love to read about the history of places I just visited.
Following that visit and that of The Knights Hospitallers' caves, I wanted only one thing, learn more about the Great Siege of 1565.The Great Siege by E.
Bradford is the best action-packed story I have ever read, including fictional works!
Now, I cannot imagine that George R.R. Martin did not read that book.
I read some time ago that it was "Les Rois Maudits" that inspired Martin to write GoT but did Bradford's book also play a role?
Sometimes I'm really not cut out to read history oops
Such a compelling story. Loved it.
It would make a good movie.Suleiman the Magnificent is elderly and the Ottoman Empire at its height-- having been stopped at Vienna but still recording victories in Eastern Europe and on the Mediterranean.
The Knights become very effective raiders, plundering many Ottoman ships and being a thorn in the Emperor's side-- so Suleiman scouts it out and makes a decision to take the island.
The Best of the Best of Ottoman warriors are described by Bradford.Grand Master de Vallette is the Knights' fearless leader and hero.
He organizes the defense of the island's force of 6,000 or so against 20-40,000 Ottoman warriors.
First published in 1961, the author's unabashed affinity for the Knights of St. John is not surprising, though it does call his objectivity into question.
That said, this remains a pretty straightforward account of what could arguably be considered among the most consequential events for Western civilization.
Nor can the skills and courage of the knights be questioned, considering what they were up against.My interest in this topic originated while reading a novel, The Religion, by Timothy Willocks, and while that was a viscerally exciting novel, I wanted to have a better understanding of the events described.
Happily enough, the verisimilitude of the novel was essentially confirmed.
Bradford traces out the story from Suleyman's decision to assault the island, focusing on the details of the battle.
He also has a good habit of detailing landscapes and battle sites as they change under violence.Bradford is deeply biased towards the Knights of Malta and the Maltese people.
We read of some fascinating details, like the medical advantage the knights had (208).Unfortunately, this leads to too rosy a treatment of the knights.
Some sentences are pleasing, like :While they buried their dead, they remembered that they who were left must still bear the ordinary guilts of life, while these had gone stainless into Paradise.(223)I read this during a return visit to Malta, which was, of course, the perfect setting.
Now, I don't really know anything about the siege apart from what I read in this book, but it has such an obvious European bias that it can't possibly be very accurate.
The Ottomans aren't really presented as evil, but rather as stupid, incompetent plotters.
Again, it is POSSIBLE that this is accurate, but I find it more likely to be an artifact of the author relying almost exclusively on European sources, rather than on Ottoman (which must surely exist), and rather uncritically.In the end, this isn't supposed to be a 100% accurate scholarly work, but rather an engaging and easily read overview of the siege.
The Knights of St. John, a noble order and the finest sailors and soldiers of the Holy Roman Empire (insert Voltaire joke here) occupied Malta, a nearly barren island just south of Sicily.
The siege included every type of fighting known to man in the sixteenth century, armed galleys fought at sea, hand-to-hand combat in the trenches surrounding the forts, miners fought in the tunnels that were being dug beneath the walls of the ramparts, cavalry charges, snipers, cannons, incendiary devices, sword fights on the bridges of siege engines, gangs of knife wielding swimmers battled in the Grand Harbor and a final all-out fight on the beach as the Turks attempted to withdraw from Malta.
Having grown up in Malta, I am no stranger to the great deeds done by the knights of St. John in Malta, before, during, and after the great siege of 1565.
In the past, friends of mine stated that we as Maltese did nothing worth noting through out this siege; we only followed orders.
Balbi even takes time to note the Maltese people's acts of courage and unwavering loyalty to the grand master and his order but most importantly their faith.
:))On my return to Malta: next year, I will make sure to visit all the fortifications, churches and places mentioned in this book.
He chooses the tiny island of Malta, home to the last remaining order of Christian Crusading Knights, the Order of St. John, who forty years before his armies had cast out of Rhodes following a long siege.
This tiny band of Christian knights have been terrorizing the Muslim lands and sea-lanes in the eastern Mediterranean, waging ceaseless war against the forces of Islam (if a group of only a few hundred knights fielding only seven warships can be said to be "at war" with the most powerful empire in the world).
Suleiman dispatches nearly his entire fleet (110+ warships) and an army of roughly 40,000 men to conquer the tiny bit of rock which is Malta.
This is the story of the obdurate Knights of St John making a stand on the small island of Malta against the mightiest power of the age, the Ottoman Empire.Ernle Bradford is concerned with the telling of the story, not just the progression of events but with creating for the reader a sense of what it was to be there, in the bloody midst of history’s greatest siege.
Obdurate conflict!Ernle Bradford lays it all out before us over the course of that summer of 1565.
This is a straightforward history of the Ottoman siege of Malta in 1555.
This was the Knights's last stand in the Mediterranean.
The book gives enough historical background, including how the Knights came to end up on a barren rock after the Turks expelled them from their home in Rhodes, in the first grand oust into Europe which stalled at the gates if Vienna in 1522.
The Turks intended to take another run at Europe, and capturing Malta wasn't just key to the strategy, it was also about reducing the Knights to invisibility.
It was the Knights last stand.
Today I looked out at The Grand Harbour in Malta and tried to imagine 200 Turkish wooden ships sailing in with 35,000 Ottoman soldiers and siege equipment.
I tried to picture the massive walls on this island of rock being pummeled with cannon fire and then scaled by hordes of armored Janissary shock-troops wielding scimitars red with Christian blood.
The defeat of this bloody siege 400+ years ago by the vastly outnumbered Knights of St. John may have changed to course of history, and may still teach us something today: the need for courage and steadfastness in the face of threat, the destructiveness of religious fanaticism, and the barbarity of which man is capable.
Against unbelievable odds, the Knights of Malta defended the island of Malta by surviving a several months long siege by the Turks.
Sheer determination and blind faith in God along with several strokes of luck allowed the Knights to prevent Malta from falling into the hands of the Ottoman Turks.
This is a superb piece of historical writing.
I read this book soon after finishing "The Siege" by the Albanian author Ismail Kadare.
Both books describe aspects of siege warfare and are based on historical material, but Bradford's book about Malta is far superior to Kadare's.
His historical narrative-writing style is near to perfection.
