https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/40669785-the-hidden-flower
Having recently read some of Pearl Buck’s novels and enjoyed them so much, I found this little gem as I looked over her other works.
A departure from writing about the lives of Chinses peasant farmers, The Hidden Flower is the story of an American US Army officer, Allen Kennedy, in occupied Japan at the end of WWII, and a local Japanese girl, Josui Sakai, of a good family.
They cannot live in Japan so they travel to the US expecting open arms of Allen’s family but find raw prejudices AND a law in Virginia, Allen’s home state, that prohibits whites from marrying people of color.
So when Josui meets and falls in love with a handsome young American officer named Allen Kennedy, it is not well received by her family.
Josui meets an American officer, Allen, one day while walking to school.
So, he goes about marrying (and telling himself that he is passionately in love with) the very first high-born, traditional Japanese girl he meets.
I read the other reviews and I understand that most people don't find this an enticing love story. Well, that might be because this story was never meant to be a love story. I think it is more about the kid, Lennie. It is about how people, fall recklessly in love or what they imagine to be love and make hasty decisions that lead them to consequences. Consequences like Lennie that they are not willing to take responsibility for. Beautiful story, poignant and touching..
But his parents have their own idea of perfection: plans of a marriage with a certain American woman and living in their small Virginian town in their own mansion.
And the Japanese woman's parents also had their own plans, that of her marrying a nice Japanese man that they had picked out for her.I felt that Pearl Buck handled this story on racism very well, and it showed how difficult it is for mixed marriages to work, especially after American had just ended a war with Japan.
In the book, The Hidden Flower, the look of love was on American, First Sergeant, Allen Kennedy’s face the moment he saw the beautiful, refined, 20-year-old, college student, Josei Sakai.
Instead of being interned, fifteen-year-old Josei and her parents, Dr. and Mrs. Sakai, relocated to Japan.Within a month of seeing each other, Allen and Josei fell in love.
But principled Josei was in love with Allen and became adamant about marrying him.Josei and Allen were married in a Buddhist ceremony in Japan, attended by her parents and their maid.
But in Virginia, Mrs. Kennedy, a Christian, did not accept the Buddhist ceremony, nor Josei’s presence in her home.
I'd never read her before, because I knew her books would always be accessible.
On the surface one may think it's a more sensitive take on the East-West star-crossed lovers theme Michener explored in "Sayonara" although Buck's book predates that one by a year or two.
But it can also be viewed as an examination of the parallels between class and race found in the United States and Japan, which would have been interesting if the author really cared (I don't think she did) and if Buck's seemingly progressive views on the issues were not marred by quaint 1950s racism she takes for granted.
After reading The Good Earth and Peony, this book was a letdown.
The story centered on a love-at-first-sight encounter between an American soldier and a young Japanese woman after WWII, but the telling felt choppy and contrived.
The ending was unsatisfying and one was left feeling that their bold decisions made in the name of love were folly.
I'll give it two stars because I did finish the book; it was short or I might not have!
In this novel, she slowly unravels the passions, realities, and subtle racism that come into play when an American serviceman falls for a college student from a prominent but conquered Japanese family.When we first meet Lt. Allen Kennedy, he is a handsome, rising star, a favorite of his Colonel and a powerful member of the occupying army in Japan after the end of World War II.
Josui Sakai, the daughter of a prominent doctor in Kyoto, sits uncomfortably between the American culture of her youth (she grew up in California until War War II began) and the Japanese culture so revered in Kyoto, where her father moved the family rather than be sent to an internment camp in the US.
Buck novel and I finally have.
It starts in Japan with the American occupation.
A young Japanese girl ( who started her life in the US but was later sent back to Japan) meets and falls in love with an American soldier.
Will it be in Japan or in the US?
Do they have children or not?I loved this story.
I loved it so much I am going to start reading all of P.
Bucks books.
Simply written, easy to understand all the human emotions,truly a book to read and sit and think about.
Discrimination continues to discriminate.This book highlights the trials and tribulations of discrimination that people have dealt with regardless of culture, race or creed. A depiction of issues that we still need to overcome today. Sad to realize that discrimination will out-live me.
I love Pearl Buck. This is a tear jerker. I read it maybe 15 years ago and I still remember most of the story.
EnlighteningThis story really hit home for me. I have even more respect for my Mother now. Being a mixed race child of the 50's myself (an American soldier father and Japanese mother). I am thankful that my parents stayed together through my childhood. I faced a fair share of ridicule as I grew up, but I cannot imagine how life would have been without the support of my parents.
ClassicA moving tale of star crossed lovers. Pearl Buck explores the cultural differences between America and Japan post war through two characters. As expected, a range of emotions are elicited from the reader_ both happy and sad. A Classic story.
I started reading this because it was Huguette Clark's (Empty Mansions) favorite book. Beautifully written. The characters have depth and complexity of emotion and actions. Important issues explored such as multicultural marriage, children, war, choices. I keep thinking about this story.
A great story of a Japanese girl who ends up marrying an American soldier who is serving there in the war. He brings her home only to find that it's illegal to be married to a 'non-white'.
I was 3 years old when my parents brought me to Japan, and grew up among Japanese kids until the age of 11.
It's not a matter of choice or decision, you can't help the immersion.Josui, born in the US, growing up in the US until 15, acts like she spent 1-2 years of her life in the US when she was a teenager, that's it.
Her biography mimics the history of my family so I put the effort to like the book, but was barely able to finish it.
Perhaps I should give her another chance in the future...For me the book felt simplistic, from the beginning to the end.
It is possible that Pearl Buck is not simply my type of writer, she is a contemporary of Hemingway, and seems to adopt, like him, a modernist, simplistic type of writing, where characters are not developed thoroughly, love feels superficial, and there are no major ideas besides the plot of the story itself.
Some people may like this style of writing a lot, but for me, while not despising it, I typically get a feeling that something is missing.
Schöne und traurige Liebesgeschichte, anhand derer eine von Vorurteilen geprägten Gesellschaft in Japan und den USA nach dem zweiten Weltkrieg aufgezeigt wird.
Dabei werden verschiedene Zerrissenheiten deutlich: innerhalb der Protagonisten, aufgrund ihrer eigenen gemachten Erfahrungen; zwischen den Generationen, die inmitten dem Alten, dem Bewährten, dem Überkommenen und dem Neuen gefangen sind und zwischen den sozialisierten Geschlechterrollen.Fesselnd geschrieben, hatte aber dennoch eine auf mich beruhigende Wirkung durch die intensive Beschreibung einer an Langsamkeit und am Wesentlich ausgerichteten japanischen Lebensweise.
Liebevolle Darstellungen des Innenlebens der Protagonisten, und letztlich ein für 1961 bemerkenswert klare Absage an Vorurteile und Rassismus.Die Autorin war 1938 die erste amerikanische weibliche Trägerin des Literatur-Nobelpreises.
القصة تتمحور حول تعرُف ضابط أمريكي على يابانية ورغبته في الزواج بها.
يرفض أباها الزواج لما تعرض له هو سابقا في أمريكا، حيث مُنع من الزواج من أمريكية.
إلا أن والدة الضابط آلن كينيدي ترفض استقبال زوجة ابنها وتُعلل ذلك بأن القانون الأمريكي يُحرّم هذا الزواج لاعتبارات عنصرية، فالزواج من "ملون: غير مقبول.
تُنجِبُ جوسي طفلا، تعرضه للتبني بعدما عرفت أنها غير مقبولة لدى والدة زوجها، ولكن دار الرعاية يرفض الطفل لأنه مُلون (ياباني).
وتعرض مديرة الدار على الوالدة أن تتولى إحدى الموظفات رعاية الطفل مع التزام الوالدة بدفع نفقات الرعاية، على أمل أن تتغير الوضاع لاحقا.
It could just be the timing of when I read this book (early in my pregnancy), but this book really affected me.
The principal theme of the novel to me was that although the melding of different cultures strengthens the overall American fabric (and indeed is fundamental to what it means to be an American), at least in post-WWII Virginia, there were a lot of cultural and structural obstacles to fulfilling that potential.
The plot somehow manages to be simultaneously horribly sad/unjust while maintaining a hopeful eye toward the future.
I always enjoy Pearl Buck's novels and admire her as a writer.
In between she wanted to include a Japanese/American baby because that was such a huge problem of the war.
However I did not feel that Lieutenant Kennedy's character did not match the Allen Kennedy in America.
It was as though Ms Buck was forced to make him revert to a copy of his shallow mother while his weak father and his old girlfriend had the strong moral character to abhor the treatment of the Japanese bride.
Pearl S.
Buck writes so beautifully and develops the characters so fully.
However, I felt the development of the relationships between characters was lacking.
I never felt that I understood Josui's attraction to Allen or vice versa.
I certainly did not understand how Allen's mother had so much sway over him.
Both fathers were easier to understand.
And Carol?
And Kotsuba?
The selflessness of both of them was lovely but believable??
This book does bring home the truth of prejudices so for that alone, I found it thought provoking.
Everything ties up in a nice neat bow at the end with Dr. Steiner.
I enjoyed this story, but it was at a distinct disadvantage, as I had just finished Lisa See's The Tea Girl of Hummingbird Lane, which has similar themes, but is much more fully written. But when I take into consideration the time when The Hidden Flower was written, I can understand that it was fairly groundbreaking for the time in its exploration of interracial relationships and their consequences based on cultural expectations of the time.Recommend, but if you have to choose only one, go with The Tea Girl of Hummingbird Lane.
History as ArtThe only reason I choose four instead of five stars is that the plot evolved too quickly at first. I did not see a point in the main characters falling in love so quickly; not realistic. Buck is such a fantastic writer that I can forgive any other flaws. This is a wonderful period piece set in post WWII. I highly recommend it.
Beautifully written. It's not exactly a love story, but it is really interesting. Pearl S. Buck is really good at describing how life was in Japan and America after the Second World War, the hatred Americans and Japanese had towards each other. However, two young people: an American man and a Japanese girl seem to fall in love...
This book was written in 1952 and was an interesting perspective on inter-racial (Japanese and American) marriage. It was against the law for an Asian and American to marry and the children from inter-racial marriages were difficult to place for adoption. It was a little slow at the beginning, but was not at all predictable.
Took me awhile to get into this, about half way through. The last half I quite enjoyed. However I felt dropped at the end without a satisfying ending for any of the characters. I guess I was looking for the red bow and there wasn't one - yet I felt it was written like there was going to be one. Feeling unsatisfied at the end.
UghI feel I have just wasted five hours of my life reading this book. Nothing happened. From the beginning all the way to the end I was waiting for something to happen. And then the book ended.
I remember my mother loving Pearl Buck and picked this one up simply thinking of her and of course Remembering The Good Earth. What surprised me was the voice of Pearl Buck-- the obvious respect, love, and sensitivity to Asian culture/people and her strong voice that seemed unbound by time.
It ended too early for me.This is a wonderful book filled with hope, tragedy and betrayal. Josh I knows her own heart amidst those who try to influence her decisionsThose who betray her are ultimately the losers.
