https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/9768.The_Wild_Swans_at_Coole
si avvicina il natale, e come è consuetudine rileggo (venerando ad uno a uno i suoi versi) William Butler Yeats e, in particolare, le poesie dei cigni selvatici di Coole.
Mi avvicina a lui un'immagine: quella di una scogliera.
Se non fosse stato per il ramo materno non avrebbe trovato parole da prestare a quella scogliera.
E le parole gli venivano anche da quell'amore culminato nel matrimonio di Maud Gonne con il maggiore MacBride a Parigi.
"Avrei potuto gettare via le povere parole", dice in una sua bella poesia "e accontentarmi della vita".
le loro parole resina di estremo dolore, equilibrio tra morte e vita, aspra solitudine.
"I know that I shall meet my fateSomewhere among the clouds above; Those that I fight I do not hate,Those that I guard I do not love;"
The last two lines of "The Song":'...For who could have foretoldThat the heart grows old.'Yeats' truths can sometimes hurt in his most heartfelt work, someof which is represented in this volume.

Not every poem is a classic, but some are, and Yeats's music and imagery put almost all living poets in the shade.
Having visited the Yeats exhibition at the National Library of Ireland, I was intrigued by this complex man who wrote so deftly about issues, such as aging and death, as well as love, and the beauty of nature.
I especially loved the poem to which this collection was named, ‘The Wild Swans of Coole,’ a place of extraordinary beauty in which Yeats contemplates how the lovely swans, unlike himself who is weary, still experience life passionately and freely.
It seems to me that Yeats often wrote about his relationships with women, and since he was promiscuous throughout his life, he was awarded with ample writing resources.
To me, Yeats speaks of the elusiveness of this idyllic relationship.
Fabulous. As one would expect of Yeats. It really produces that Stillness feeling you'd get from looking at the Lake at Coole Park. It's believed this Poem was written when Yeats was staying with a friend - Lady Gregory at Coole Park in Ireland. This is fabulous poetry. 5 stars.
i want to read this one
YeatesMy favourite poet. Yeates is a great man and a genius wordsmith. Can easily be read and reread, always finding something new.
Meditations on aging and death.
Eh, I find that both this audiobook & the poems therein leave me lukewarm. I may try other Yeats poems but not in audio form...
Continuing my read-through of Yeats. He's slowly combining his trademark mysticism and folklore with the regret and yearning that comes with getting older, and concurrently his poems often can feel like spells. Less about what they say than the strange enchantment they cast. The last poem "The Double Vision of Michael Robartes" is obscure and haunting and even if I don't know all it means, I can't forget it either.
“Mysterious, beautiful; Among what rushes will they build, By what lake’s edge or pool Delight men’s eyes, when I awake some day To find they have flown away?”
My personal favourites were, "An Irish Airman Foresees His Death", "The Dawn", "The Fisherman", "Ego Domnius Tuus", and "Two Songs Of A Fool".
Poems about growing older and change and how things will never be the same.CONTENTS page The Wild Sw
Periodically I revisit Yeats, and, this year marking his 150th anniversary, it seemed appropriate now to do him the courtesy again.
Written during his early 50s, most of the poems here dwell on ageing, lost love, loss in general, and the struggle involved in making something durable out of impermanent life.
In my mid-50s myself, they now make sense in a way they never could when I read them younger.
I've never quite managed to love Yeats as I do Pound and Eliot, but, I hope, there's time.
While I liked a few of the poems in this selection, most were just humdrum for me. I didn't hate them or find them impossible to understand (which is far too often the case with poetry for me) but they didn't speak to me. These are the poems I liked best in the collection: "An Irish Airman Foresees His Death", "The Living Beauty", "The Hawk", "The Cat and the Moon" and "Another Song of a Fool"
This will probably say more about my ignorance regarding early 20th Century poetry, but I didn't really enjoy it. The selection are based on ageing and death, and the cruelty of the huge loss of life at wartime. I haven't much experience with poetry, but am reading a second book by Yeats, The Celtic Twilight, a collection of short stories and I am already enjoying these. So, maybe its the subject I don't like so much, maybe the medium...not really sure.
Despite the inclusion of a wider-spanning "narrative" arc, and numerous nested or branching poems, as well as a general looking-backward towards past work and forward towards future work, none of what is included here really connected, for me.
Some of these poems are hauntingly wonderful; others touch my admiring part rather than my affections. Re-visited after reading another book about the north west and happy to be back in touch with literary Ireland.
I love Yeats. I wish I knew more about him and his work, but even in ignorance, his words move me.
(review to follow when I get hold of the book again)
Aging, death, farewells. Yeats' language is so simple, yet he says so much.
I really enjoyed many of these, though a few I couldn't make anything of and/or didn't find impressive. For the most part I'm enjoying Yeats more and more as he ages, though.
