https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/251926.Outer_Banks
I wanted to like this book better. Miss/Mrs. Siddons has lovely sentences, and her characters are unique and human, but the book was bogged down by a decidedly gossipy banality, a lack of the poetry of the mundane that made it as much soap opera as a portrait of the human condition; the latter perhaps her failed goal. The drama and events are too contrived to be believable.
Virginians obsesses about the Outer Banks all summer long - telling stories about it, packing for trips, posting pictures.
The book is the story of enigmatic Kate Lee Abrams and her relationship with her 3 college suitemates.
Kate tells the tale by weaving intricate stories of her college years and giving us a snapshot into her present life as a 42 year old woman - happily married, forever scarred by the tragic death of her 5 year old son, and battling ovarian cancer.What the author did well -•Kate is a well developed, interesting character.
I thougth this book would be a perfect beach read for my summer vacation in the Outer Banks. I kept waiting for it to get better and it never did. Perhaps I would have enjoyed it more if I'd been in a sorority in college...I'm also kind of suprised that this was an option for one of the "Modern Fiction" choices during my Junior year of high school. I'm glad I chose to read Pat Conroy that year instead.
When a friend recommended "Outer Banks," I bought it sight unseen, thinking anything Siddons writes will be good.
Populated with singular and fully developed characters in a well-rounded group of friends, the reader comes to know each character intimately.
As the setting, Outer Banks, North Carolina is the location of the vacation home of one in this group of friends.
I recommend this book for its brilliant story development and because Siddons wrote the kind of characters one never forgets.
Anne Rivers Siddons, the author of Outer Banks is comfortable explaining the southern soul, but she also understands the depth of friendships that develop during a young woman's formative years.
Each participate has developed their own agenda and their perception of their happy college life differs vastly.The setting of the outer banks is intriguing and the reader feels the attraction of the sun and ocean.
Soon the reader also begins to feel the compelling and seductive force of the waves and is effect on the lives of those of the shore dwellers.I highly recommend this book to those who enjoy stories about complex relationships
OK, so the writing was good, even better than good--but I HATED the plot.
I particularly HATED the ending.
It was stupid, I felt manipulated, and it did not even tie up all the loose ends.
I will never read another book by this author again....I really mean it.
I actually re-read the last chapter to see if I had missed something, some clue, some word, that would have it make more sense--but nothing, not a shred of comprehension came from it.
A cheap stupid ending with a heroine who was always weeping.
This book is a stunner!! I never saw the twists and turns coming. It's wonderfully wicked and an engrossing story of friendships, love, jealousy and betrayal.
I read this many years ago, and I loved it. I would like to re-read it some day.
Four women bound by rare, blinding and early friendship.
Now, thirty years later, they are coming back - back to recapture the magical memories of those early years, to experience again the love, the enthusiasm, the passion, pain and cruel betrayal that shaped these four young girls into vibrant young women and set them off on the courses of their lives.I really enjoyed this book.
I think that Anne Rivers Siddons is perhaps one of my favorite authors and I give this book an A+!
Thirty years later, the group gathers again for a week at Ginger's place at Nag's Head to get caught up and reminisce about old times.
I'm sure I read this back in the 90's when it first came out - I read several of her books about that time.
The first two thirds of the book are the background information from the college years, with current experiences of Kate who is the narrator.
It is only the last third which is the actual reunion week in Nag's Head.
Yes, it's chick lit, but it was a diversion from heavier things I was reading at the same time.
I think this is the second Anne Rivers Siddons book I ever bought and read (on the strength of how much I enjoyed "Hill Towns").
Her people seem real - and their stories and the places they live and visit, are truly memorable.Which is why I came back, long after my first reading, to enjoy this wonderful novel all over again.
Outer Banks is one of my favorite Anne Rivers Siddons books.
I always enjoy getting to know her characters and locations and have taken several East coast vacations largely due to the interest in the area that her books left with me.
I read this book again when years later I finally went to the Outer Banks on vacation and found a tattered copy where we stayed.
She gets me involved and attached to her characters and then stirs everything up for the ending.
And the ending was my favorite of all her books.
I bought this book, because my family has rented a beach house in Kill Devil Hills for years and I love the Outer Banks or OBX as we call it. I was hoping for a story line with the Outer Banks as the setting, instead it is a boring, tale of college roommates and their lives before, during and after college! (again!) I tried three times to finish this book, but finally gave up this time at the half way point, because it was wasting my time and boring me to tears!
This reminded of South of Broad. It has the same unbelievable characters and plot. It has a big storm at the end too. The end was phoney and unbelievable. It is only redeemed by some beautifully written passages. The woman can write but she needs to get to some kind of reality.
I read this several years ago, and loved it. Fantastic. I love her stuff though. This one had lots of suspense toward the end, and lots of electricity between characters.
I feel compelled to open each one and look into the faces of the profile pictures to understand more clearly what exactly poor taste looks like.
Anyone who says anything in this book is far-fetched has obviously led much more of a boring and inexperienced life than Siddons or myself.
Reading her words are like eating the richest of chocolate.
This one is probably my favorite of her books, especially since I am from the Outer Banks and know exactly of the raw beauty she speaks.
I have read and enjoyed this and most of Siddons's books at least twice.
Her boyfriend Paul Sibley, a prostitute's son whose mother took the last name of a construction company her brother worked for, who dumped her to marry the rich Ginger Fowler.
Then there's Cece Hart, a girl we never really got to know, and the dumpling Fig Newton who was made fun of and grudgingly accepted.The story jumps between flashback and the present day, when a sick Kate Lee gets an invitation from Ginger Fowler Sibley for a reunion.
While you're feigning affection to me, can you tell that I'm pretending to like you?
Instead, it feels like the story ran out of steam and she just wanted to end it.
You believe they could have actually taken place.Outer Banks was the first is Siddons novel I ever read.
I read its 300+ pages in less than 24 hours although it was my third go-round.This novel tells the tale of four women - Kate (the narrator), Cece (Kate's best friend), Fig (the difficult and odd character) and Ginger (the girl everyone loves).
And the twist is something you will never see coming and will not soon forget.If you have not an Anne Rivers Siddons novel, you are missing something very special.
I'm so glad that I did, because I'm truly surprised by how much I liked this book, and for all the reasons that it appealed to me when I first read the reviews back in my Davis days.
It will make you want to rent a beach house in Nags Head on the Outer Banks, a place that I have never visited, but feel I can vividly imagine after reading this book.
If you can't take a summer beach vacation, this book, along with a glass of Southern sweet tea, would be a good substitute.
This was a good lesson to me to check my occasional snootiness about mass market books that you can buy in the grocery store.
This was the August 2005 Branigan BookClub selection.Kate, Cecie, Fig and Ginger were college roommates. As grown women, one summer, they meet at Ginger's beach house on North Carolina's Outer banks for an informal reunion. After some bittersweet reminiscing they discover unsettling things about their friendship. And when Paul, the one true love of Kate's life, and whom Ginger married, shows up, they are forced to confront the truths about their past. Siddons has an unerring eye for the emotions, mores and souls of her characters. She has been compared to Jane Austen, and I can see why.--Mark Pendleton http://chile.las-cruces.org/search/t?...
This book is awful.
I picked it up because I love the Outer Banks and I thought it would be a nice way to reminisce about family vacations.
It was also a book about sorority women, of which I am one.
I thought it might be nice to view sorority life from a middle-aged perspective.
No. There is absolutely zero plot and the syntax is jumpy, with very little contextual interplay.
Flashbacks in literature should be seamless; these are jerky and unwarranted.
The drama and events are unrealistic and unbelievable, and not in a good way.
Soap Opera on the beach.
I kept thinking it would get better and listened like you watch a train wreck.
The characters were interesting, but I felt that Kate was just a whiner who never liked anything and never appreciated what she had.
She almost messed everything up for everyone including herself.
I think maybe in the end it was alright.
I kind of felt the whole Figg turning into a pyscho at the last minute and wanting to kill everyone was just like oh gee I need to make this book a little bit longer.
At least the ending was satsifactory.
Having read several of Anee Rivers Siddons books, I will say that this is my favorite so far; starts off a little slowly but once the main character enters college and makes some friends the story really becomes moving.
Every woman can relate to the love-hate relationships that these friends have with each other.
Also, a trip back to the sixties is always worth a visit (especially to the South if you weren't raised there).
The story also jumps ahead from time-to-time to the main character's life as an adult; a really hard to put down though not entirely happy tale.
Well, I sure didn't see all of that coming. Though I feel that I should have seen that Fig was crazy. Hell, Cecie even said so but I didn't believe it. I actually thought that it might have been her that was crazy. This is the second Anne Rivers Siddons books that I have read and I have to say there is obviously something about the books that keeps me interested even though each time I have started a book I tell Derek that I don't think I am going to like it.
This was a book with a compelling story, but the book was very hard for me to read. I put this book down with every intent not to pick it back up, but ended up finishing it. The way that the author writes was hard for me to get into and continue reading, but the plot was very well put together. I liked the book well enough, but will not read another book by the same author, because of the problems I already noted. The stars are for the plot, not the writing.
I give up. Uncle. Made it about three quarters of the way through, and then realized I hated all of the characters and the storyline was weeeeeeeeak. Does this author not have any real life friendships to draw from in her writing? It's not enough that she barely uses it as a setting, but using the title "outer Banks" ensures that many women vacationers will buy the book for their OBX vacation ( I found a copy of it in the last place we rented.) clever girl!
A good vacation read - esp if you're at the beach. Lot's of character development and probably a lot more lingering on the descriptive than it needs to be. At times I felt the author was showing off with big fancy words (just too many) and too much quoting of literature and poetry. But despite its slow moments, enough happened that I wanted to push on and see how it would all turn out.
3 stars for the lovely prose and the character development. I've noticed Siddons' characters all have some major flaws, and that's what I love about them. My review would have been 5 stars if the last 50 pages or so had never been written. Talk about going off the rails. Were these pages written by a different author? What happened?
While I appreciated Siddons' vocabulary usage, I spent most of this book waiting for . . . something, anything. Maybe I'm just not a good chick lit reader, but this was mostly a waste of my time. I should know better by now, but for $2.00 I threw aside my instincts and gave it a shot. Silly, silly me.
http://www.llgolden.com/2016/08/the-a...
