https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/780769.Marmalade_Boy_Vol_1
Instagram || Twitter || Facebook || Amazon || PinterestThe book starts out with Miki Koishikawa sitting down with her parents, who are both grinning like someone told them that they both won an all expenses paid million yen vacation."We need to tell you something, Miki," they begin, all chipper. Which is terrifying in and of itself, because "we need to tell you something" is only slightly below "we need to talk" on the "phrases that make you sh*t bricks" list. "We're getting divorced!"Worst Par
All the girls in her school think he's hot, and all the rest are convinced that there's something between Yuu and Miki.Ginta, Miki's friend, is especially jealous, because he and Miki were on the verge of going out a few years ago, but then drifted apart because of a misunderstanding.What's the misunderstanding?He told all his friends that he didn't really like her and Miki heard him say it....Ouch.Also, it was right after she sent him a long and heartfelt love letter.*facepalm*And when she walked in, his friends were reading the love letter & laughing at it.*bangs head against wall*THEN, as if all that wasn't enough, Yuu and Miki come home one day to find a broken vase in the middle of the floor and all the WPEs having a Westworld-esque stare-down."We're getting divorced again and moving out of this house!"Miki, understandably, is like, "Wait, you put Yuu and me through all this nonsense and now you want to click the giant 'undo' button without giving it a shot?
soprattutto lui la prende in giro a livelli indecenti e mi fa troppo ma davvero troppo ridere!In più l'amica di lei...che ha una storia con il professore...tutti motivi di super censura visto che è passato in tv come cartone animato per bambini...(no comment)Ora che l'ho riletto, avevo paura, paura che non mi piacesse più visto ormai che era passata un'eternità dalla prima lettura....ma non è stato così!
I liked Miki and her friend Meiko, but disliked Yuu and all the parents enough that I'm not sure I feel like continuing the series.
Quanto mi è mancato questo cartone. E' bellissimo poter rivivere la storia e le sensazioni provate da piccina con il manga! *-* Presto recensione sul blog! (:
è molto anni '90, e si vede ^^Comunque quando i 4 genitori, le hanno fatto (view spoiler)[ il trappolone (hide spoiler)] sono stati proprio stronzi.
Marmalade Boy, primer tomo de la serie de Wataru Yoshizumi. Ha sido toda una delicia de leer y contemplar sus ilustraciones, tanto en blanco y negro como a color. Es incluso mejor que el anime, ya que cada escena está dibujada al detalle por la autora. La trama me parece de lo más pintoresca y original que he visto/leído hasta ahora, con unos personajes como Miki y Yuu que transmiten mucha dulzura al lector. Sin lugar a dudas el manga de 'La familia crece' le hace justicia al anime.
Puede que a muchos no les parezca justa mi calificación, pero qué le voy a hacer!!! Está hablando la añoranza y la nostalgia!! :D
Hacía mucho tiempo que no leía shojo y es un tipo de manga que nunca me ha terminado de calar. Y a estas alturas creo que ya no lo va a hacer... No sé, este primer tomo de "Marmalade Boy" me ha parecido algo absurdo y se me ha hecho un poco aburrido. Todo el mundo dice que luego mejora y ahora no sé si seguir. 2,5/5
Although Miki is dead set against it - her new stepbrother, Yuu, makes her think it might not be so bad after all.Marmalade Boy is probably the most popular work of Wataru Yoshizumi - and rightly so!
There were, as typical for Yoshizumi, a lot of rivals for all the romance - but it was always dealt with quite nicely without adding too much drama and characters knowing when it was time to give up.
The romance between the supporting characters was no different - one could easily relate to why characters liked each other.Quite untypical for Yoshizumi was the fact that not all characters ended up with partners.
Yuu and Miki are also nice lead characters.
Todo lo que vemos, sería el inicio del primer arco argumental donde se habla de la decisión de sus padres y las primeras impresiones de Miki respecto al hijo de esa otra pareja: Yuu. El dibujo del manga es muy bonito (nada que ver con el diseño que se realizó para la serie animada) y siendo esta una de las tantas veces que lo he leído, puedo decir que este el arco argumental (de los tres que tiene) que más disfruto.
Meiko y Ginta: Ambos son amigos de Miki y aunque sus historias no se desarrollan del todo en este primer número, si se empieza a formar una idea sobre lo que vermos en los siguientes números.
adorableness overload <3
"You know, Yuu. You're a lot like marmalade.
Even though you've got lots of bitter bits inside you, all people see is the the sweetness on the surface.
I'm currently re-reading this manga, and I confess that I am a little bias as it was one of the first mangas (and anime) that got me hooked, so it holds a special place in my heart.
Yuu is so calm and serene, but holds a special and teasing relationship with Miki, and Meiko is quiet and mysterious.
This manga, in many ways, has many shoji manga tropes, but they're done so well that you can't help loving it.
this was my first obsession series! i love it, almost every second of the series! two families decide to divorce and remarry each other, and just watch the mayhem unfold. ex-girlfriends, past loves, possible new loves, trying to rekindle old loves, in just the first book!i think i need to pick it up again, it's just that great!
I found my heart beating so fast while reading this, and I don't know why. I guess this manga is just that good, at least for me. I hope to read the rest of the manga series~
Okay, it was all very awkward at the beginning but I ended up liking it a little bit.
Mi infancia <3
Cute manga, just love the characters.
Vielleicht ist diese etwas aus dem Rahmen fallende Familiensituation ja gar nicht so schlimm?Die irre Hop-Skip-Comedy: Verwirrspiel mit Exfreundinnen, Nebenbuhlern und Erzrivalen.Band 2:Kurzbeschreibung:Die überraschende Wiederverheiratung ihrer Eltern führt dazu, dass Miki und ihr neuer Stiefbruder Yuu zusammen unter einem Dach leben.Miki ist ratlos wegen der unerwarteten Liebeserklärung von Ginta, ihrem besten Kumpel.
Wie kommt sie da raus...?!Band 3:Kurzbeschreibung:Miki und Yuu werden in den Winterferien ganz alleine sein, doch...?!Meinung:“Marmalade Boy“ fiel mir eigentlich ganz zufällig in die Hände und ich beschloss der Serie eine Chance zu geben.
This series was published by the now defunct TokyoPop and thus the books are out of print.
On a whim - $3 is practically free to try out a new series - I bought those first three books.
When we got back home, I went my local Bookmans and bought the rest of the series (volumes 4 - 8, which unfortunately weren't listed at $1 each, but still at a bargain price).
So, obviously, I liked the first three volumes enough to buy the rest!The story's premise is so ridiculous that I knew that by even starting this series, I had to be ready for anything.
Marmalade Boy is one of the classic shoujo mangas, mixing light-hearted humor with grief and heartache.
A particularly interesting technique employed by the author is the choice to make the heroine's hair black, along with her parents', and the hero's hair light in color, along with his parents'.
The hair color choice makes it easy to tell which parent belongs to which of the two main characters.
The girl with a crush on the hero for the last several years has light hair like him, and the boy with a crush on the heroine has dark hair like her.
I haven't read this series since high school and I am surprised that I'm liking it this much. I'm not finding it boring. The characters and their interactions are fun. I love the artwork. Great start!
It is a great book to read
3.75 stars
Un tuffo nel passato! Davvero bellissimo.
Pending.
Actual score: 4.25/5This was such a cute and fluffy read- can't wait to tackle the rest of the volumes
https://ioamoilibrieleserietv.blogspo...
Great series, very much recommend this!
She’s got a crush on one boy, Ginta, although he turned her down and they’re still very close friends, but ends up being stuck with her new step-brother, Yuu, who is obviously going to be the main love interest.
Within the first book, we see Miki overreact about her parents and how weird they are (even though they didn't seem all that strange, aside from the switching partners thing), that Ginta still likes her, and that she’s starting to get feelings for her step-brother, although he’s always teasing her, and she meets his old girlfriend.
I also like Yuu. He’s obviously got feelings for Miki growing as well, and I’m just looking forward to watching them grow.
This made the characters likable and easy to root for.The overall plot is kind of soap-opera-like yet nothing is over exaggerated or overdramatized and issues and controversial topic are introduced in such a light and positive way that I gladly take everything in that the story gives me without any complaint or weirdness.
