https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/35542451-girl-wash-your-face
This book is for privileged white women with no real problems but the ones they make up for themselves.
I was told this book was “inspiring”.
But let’s be real, it’s easy for a rich lady to tell me (or anyone) that I’m “in control of my own life”.
I found this book to be very unrelatable and full of humble brags.
It was like social media in book form.
Also, if I hear one more white woman call other white women her “tribe” I’m going to throw up.This book ended up in the trash after reading 50 pages and countless eye rolls.
Because, if I don't think it's worth five stars, what hope is there??
Now, I think that if I knew more about Rachel Hollis (or had ever heard of her before picking up her book) I would have definitely passed on this volume - I am generally not a fan of "mommy-blogger" or "social media influencer" content.
After I realized how shallow this book actually was, I became super frustrated with the author's annoying cutesy voice and writing-style and basically hate-read the rest of it.
The end.") I would roll my eyes at the suggestions like "have sex every day for a month, it will change your sex life" after she JUST talked about not knowing how you get UTIs from sex when she was younger and more ignorant (you wanna know how you get an UTI from sex?
Things that irked me:-The painfully tone-deaf, privileged, white, conservative, upper-class worldview (one of her personal “goals” that she uses to structure a chapter is literally buying a $1000 Louis Vuitton purse)-Frequent mentions of how she’s REALLY good at X/the most organized/the hardest working/the most tenacious/ the biggest nerd you’ve EVER MET (dude, give it a rest)-Near constant reminders of how fabulously successful she is (although I’d never heard of her before picking up this book)-Weirdly sporadic “god/your creator has a plan” (more concentrated in the latter half of the book) sprinkled throughout the bland self-help clichesIt’s like a big long humble brag in narrative form.
I struggled with every word she said about diet and body image—what was meant to be uplifting and inspiring was preached as scientific fact from someone with no medical/dietetic credentials.
She gave so much time to how terrible their first year was and then gives a quick “but now everything is great!” And it just doesn’t work for me.I think the point of the husband story was that when she told him she needed to be respected and she didn't want him calling anymore, he realized she was worth respecting.
Then I remembered how Rachel went off on the totally exhausted mom for giving her kid candy on a plane.
Girl, stop preaching at meAt the end of each chapter, Hollis tells us what worked for her...what helped her master something in her life.
Wow. We’re the same age and I certainly feel like a constant work in progress.
And she’s this wise, worldly woman who seems to think very highly of herself and her progress in life.
I’d be sooooo annoyed if she were sitting around at a party and kept talked about “what worked for her,” like some wise old grandma reflecting on her youth.
I would have connected more if she finished each chapter with a more active statement, such as, “What’s working for me now.”
Rachel Hollis's newest book Girl Wash Your Face is just the book I needed to read to start my new year.
It's one of those books that made me think about my life, the things I do, and it was a highly entertaining read!
I read up on it, and I was inspired to make changes to my life and not wait until the first of the year, but do it now.
I found Rachel's stories inspiring.
Laced with humor, relateable stories, and things that will actually resonate and help most of us, I recommend this book to all women.
Nope. Belittling people by saying you can pick yourself up by the boot straps and CHOOSE happiness is irresponsible and uneducated. It just isn’t that simple. Her approach to body image and dieting is downright scary. She seems very self centered and looking for her 15 minutes as opposed to ‘helping’ anyone let alone women. Throwing in a scripture here and there does not a Christian based book make. This should not be considered self help. I would not recommend this book to anyone. It’s uncomfortable, frustrating and ignorant.
Ok, maybe I’m the wrong audience for this.
Or maybe I shouldn’t have chosen the audiobook narrated by the author.
“It’s important to have self-worth by dumping the guy who uses you as a booty call (but oh yeah I ended up marrying the guy).” “Hey girls, we should support each other instead of judging each other.” And on top of all that, her anecdotes were way too long and self-aggrandizing.
To top it off, the audiobook narration by the author had way too much preacher/coddling guru/“let go and let god” vibes.
One thing that was tough was a constant thread of diet culture and weight loss talk throughout the whole book.
There is a line where the author says (paraphrased) "science shows you need to eat less and move more, the end!" Where a lot of the other chapters examined the nuance of different issues and talked about developing an internal monologue to become more driven, the weight loss chapter felt super icky.
It was basically "you shouldn't be fat, you won't be as long as you don't overeat to numb your feelings, and take better care of this body God gave you."A lot of other chapters were motivating, but the diet talk (peppered through every chapter) would keep me from recommending this.
Girl, just don’t read this book.
I won’t even go into the annoying references to exercise and diet, wine drinking, and constant references to her “years” of hard work (this chick is like 34, come on, girl, you've got at least another decade of life until you can say you have done anything for “years”) This book could have been a short story if she’d left out all the filler fluff and strange tangents.
If you are a regular women who was interested in finding a deeper and more authentic sense of joy in your life, this book is not for you.
Well I've found the self-help book for you!!If you're looking for a light dose of fat shaming (disguised as "the kick in the pants you may need, girl, to take control of your life!!
If you want someone who has lived through a close family suicide but remains highly shame-ridden about mental health issues and how to discuss them, please visit this book.
very very weird.)There's even a whole chapter on not judging gays, and how you should even hang out with them!!
And people of color, hang out with them too!!Like, y'all, I'm disgusted.
But this book happened, and Hollis means well enough...
We’re being honest here, right?
After all, that was the premise of the book.
To be clear, I’m not in the target demographic for this title.
(I’m over 40!
Oh, the horror!) This was just another self-help book written by a self-proclaimed celebrity (ish) who wants to be recognized for changing all our lives.
We should admit we’re imperfect, confess to wearing Spanx and give in to the demands of life and just show up at our kid’s school in (gasp!) our work clothes!
(I’m the devil.)
Read for book club. Not something I would EVER choose for myself. The fact that people like this, quirky bloggers who are experts in precisely nothing, get to write entire books about how to live is probably the strongest argument I can think of in support of shutting down the internet, full stop.Also, as an adult woman named Rachel, I am personally offended by how many times she refers to herself in the third person as "Rach". Ew.
Multiple people told me to read this book, so I figured I'd give it a shot.
I've never heard of Rachel Hollis before or anything about her.I listened to this on audio, read by the author which was a treat.
Most of this is pretty cliched, but sometimes it's a nice reminder to pick yourself up by the bootstraps and work hard for the life you want to live.
It is hard to rate a book about someone else's life, so I will stay right down the middle.
This book might be for you if you've recently had kids and have struggled with finding a balance between family, work, friends, and self.
**But God can't make you into something, without your help.** You have the power to change, you have to stop waiting around for someone else to do it for you."Each chapter begins with a lie, and the author's answers to overcoming those lies.
Those answers very, very rarely included any truth beyond maybe a simple line about faith or God. Rather, I got so sick of hearing "I did, I worked, I earned." It's a pretty cliche, "pull yourself up by the bootstraps," self-help type book.
You cannot tell that story about how awful your husband treated you when you first started dating and then, later in the book, continuously mention how you were "best friends from the beginning." You were not.
He was an asshole, and her revisionist history later in the book makes me question everything she said.2.
Hollis thinks the difference between her and the people who didn't make their dreams come true is that she never gave up.
But listening to the book did make her calling her readers "my sweet friend" more jarring.
I knew this book was bad before I got to Chapter 3, but felt compelled to hate-read (thank you, GRer Marin for that excellent descriptor) the rest in order to critically annotate it throughout and on hopes it would redeem itself somehow.
What follows is full of spoilers, but believe me, you want to read them to spare yourself from the waste of time that is this book.
Believe it or not, this is not an exhaustive list of the defects in this book, but I’m tired and I think the case has been pretty well-made now.
❝If we can identify the core of our struggles, while simultaneously understanding that we are truly in control of making changes, then we can utterly change our trajectory.❞ I've laughed, cried and contemplated. There are self-help books, and then there's 'Girl, Wash Your Face'!Through lies she's told herself, Rachel Hollis takes her readers on a journey through her triumphs and losses, heartbreaking moments and celebrations. ❝Recognizing the lies we've come to accept about ourselves is the ke
❝If we can identify the core of our struggles, while simultaneously understanding that we are truly in control of making changes, then we can utterly change our trajectory.❞
There are self-help books, and then there's 'Girl, Wash Your Face'!Through lies she's told herself, Rachel Hollis takes her readers on a journey through her triumphs and losses, heartbreaking moments and celebrations.
Lies we've been told and lives we've told ourselves."Something else will make me happy.""I'll start tomorrow.""I'm not good enough.""I should be further along by now.""I am who others think I am.""My best isn't good enough."Those are some of MY lies (and some I share with Mrs. Hollis).Rachel's truth is poignant, it is devastating, and it is healing.
I had never heard of Rachel Hollis before being part of the advanced review team for this book, so I began to follow her on social media.
I think I would like this book better if it wasn't put out by a Christian publisher.
I think non-Christians may be put off by the "Christian publisher" thing and I think Christians may be misled into thinking it is a Christian book.I appreciate Hollis' honesty about her relationships with men, her relationships with others, and her relationship with alcohol.
I appreciate that she did not put on a facade, however this book was not for me.
It's not fiction, it's not a cookbook, it's Girl, Wash Your Face: Stop Believing the Lies about Who You Are so You Can Become Who You Were Meant to Be. Part self help, part honest, heartbreaking non-fiction, Girl, Wash Your Face was the book I didn't know I needed.
Broken into chapters by lie, yes as in the lies we believe in about ourselves, Rachel Hollis tackles the struggles women face daily and the steps we can take to make a positive, lasting difference.
❝Recognizing the lies we've come to accept about ourselves is the key to growing into a better version of ourselves.❞Though I cried, a lot, Girl, Wash Your Face is a humorous, powerful read that is easy to follow and inspiring.
There were parts of this book that were motivating but nothing presented was new and it was all stuff we've seen or heard before.
I definitely feel like it's marketed and better suited towards the 20 something demographic.
Women who are really getting started with life, careers, etc.
I did find the information regarding her personal business interesting.
Still, I did gain a few insights from reading the book and certainly reaffirmed things that I have let go by the wayside.
Overall, it was a decent read but being in my 40s there just wasn't much in it for me.
I'm not Rachel's target audience.
Proof?
I had never even heard of her before seeing this book pop up on hoopla even though she's labeled as a "lifestyle guru" and I'll be honest, had I known, I likely would have passed this one by.
There are some good moments here and I can see why it appeals to a certain audience even if, for me, it was only okay.
It felt a bit too much like a really loooong "guru" seminar.
Could not finish this. Listened to audio book and had to stop halfway through. The author has no concept of her own privilege, and that many women reading this book don't have the same opportunities she has. I found it self-centered.
I started out listening to this book without any expectations.
It was painfully hard for me to finish listening to this book, but finishing something gives me a sense of accomplishment, so here I am.
There was one point in the book when she was explaining what she envisions or fantasies about when she is running and having a hard time-what pushes her not to give up.
Good for her for following her dreams and trying to inspire others with that...ultimately the book just wasn't for me.
In the interest of full disclosure, I had no intention of reading it because I saw a video promoting it and the video just shouted "HUMANISM." I am frustrated with the blend of humanism and christianity I see over and over, so I had a strong suspicion that I wouldn't like the book.
I personally think that a follower of Christ should only read this with a great deal of discernment.
. .well, that's our natural tendency and we don't really need a self-professing Christ follower telling us to put self first.
I think that's what frustrated me most about this book.
1 ⭐ because I could not/did not finish this one. I went into this book with excitement and an open mind realizing that many parts would not be for me as I am not Christian and therefore not the base that Rachel Hollis is writing for. This book was for a book club I’m part of and was ready for something out of my typical genre.This book was not for me. The chapter on her experiences with the foster care system felt very self-centered and self-focused rather than an opportunity for a person with p
The chapter on her experiences with the foster care system felt very self-centered and self-focused rather than an opportunity for a person with privilege and a strong fan base to talk about what’s wrong with the system and how children are affected because of the systemic faults and some easy things people can do to make a difference in the foster care system regardless of their level of personal involvement (especially ways to make a difference with a Christian mindset and philosophy for this particular book).
I also felt that for a person who comes from a place of privilege, there was no grace for those who are not in such a place or have similar opportunities as she has - especially in the chapter where she talks about her weight and how everyone needs to take care of themselves.
— but instead of saying something like “God used it for my good,” she pretty much says, “And I in my own strength rose above.” Part of me hopes that she’s saying that with good intentions to inspire others, but I can’t help but feel disappointed that she doesn’t share how her faith got her out of these dark times.
but with the entire tone of the book, it comes across more that all life change is purely achieved through the self, which I can’t personally ascribe to.I think Rachel is probably someone I would like more in person, but her public persona just grates on me sometimes.
This book is truly AMAZING! I mean I loved every minute of it. I have told all my family and friends to read this book and now I am telling you, READ IT you won't regret it!
I didn’t finish the book. I stopped around chapter 12 when I asked myself why I was putting myself through this. I’ll leave it at that.
