https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/39291659-go-the-f-k-to-sleep
NEVER MIND THE VERY CATCHY TITLE...and disregard that it is only 32 pages long and designed to emulate those children’s books we parents read ad nauseum to our kids…THIS IS AN ANTHEM TO PARENTS EVERYWHERE, an honest celebration of that all too familiar experience that we have all been through…and I laughed my mental-cursing, temper-losing, patience-exhausted, anger-rising, sleep-deprived ass off the entire time I was reading it.
They just allowed the book to mirror the real life experience of every parents and what shines through is the kind of TRUTH that we laugh hardest at because it is just so universal.
I can't express how much I love this book. My son is currently whining because he's supposed to be napping.Yeah, good fucking luck on that one.But this book is so awesome because it's true. I think I've thought almost every word in this book toward my son at some point.Seriously, boy! Mummy needs her GoodReads time so GO THE FUCK TO SLEEP!!!
I am not one for profanity...but...this book read by Samuel L. Jackson is truly what happens at sleep time! An Adult read!You can hear this on You Tube narrated by Samuel L. Jackson: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Cb0t9...

If you are looking for a quick laugh (about 5 mins) listen to this book. Samuel Jackson reading this funny adult book. Though, there is a lot of swearing. I heard the audio was great and I had been looking for it. Thanks to Mischenko for pointing out it is available on YouTube: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Cb0t9TUNLpg
Hilarious!As soon as I saw this, I had to read it. I went straight to Amazon and snatched the kindle edition. The story is hilarious and the illustrations are great. A definite conversation piece.After buying it, I realized I could've watched it on YouTube for free! And better yet, narrated by one of my favorite actors, Samuel L. Jackson. 4****
I just had to get this audio when I heard that Samuel L.
Jackson was the narrator!
He has a little intro he does in the beginning talking about his kids and his friends kids that was funny as well.
This is a funny ADULT CHILDREN'S BOOK!
This is NOT A BOOK TO READ TO YOUR KIDS!
Unless you really want to ☺The book is a very short audio book as you can imagine but it was only $3 and some change on Amazon and hey, it's Samuel reading!
I loved it!
I loved it!
♥MY BLOG: Melissa Martin's Reading List
I guess my parents were lucky -- we pretty much went to sleep without fussing.
And if we got up again we usually played quietly without disturbing our parents.
And the kids I baby-sat most often went to sleep pretty obligingly, too, probably because I played energetic games with them so they were wiped out.
I remember having to convince one very docile girl that it would be okay for her to go to bed early if she wanted to.
I suggested she could brush her teeth and get in bed, and we would read until 8.
So funny! I would probably appreciate the little gem even better if I had a kid. You can hear this on You Tube narrated by Samuel L. Jackson: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Cb0t9... Thanks to Alina for the inspiration to read/listen to this.
It took a loud mouth obnoxious elderly woman flipping shit about him wearing a speedo to make me realize that I had in fact been speaking to a mostly naked man without batting an eye (which is something that probably would have flustered me ten years ago).That’s why I love this book – I think that every parent gets to this place where it feels like the normal, adult part of you is disappearing in a flood of Yo Gabba Gabba, diapers, sparkly shoes, playdates, and that book that you just loved the first time but now makes you physically ill on the hundredth re-read.
This song will probably be more likely to confuse a child that’s learning the ABC’s (for example, “J is for jalapeno,” “C is for czar,” and “P is for pneumonia, pterodactyl, and psychosis”) but it’s a highly entertaining listen for parents.
I thought they were just really big cats from some magical land like Oz or The Magical Land of the Really Big Cats.I should have thrown the book straight in the trash after seeing the cover, but I’m not exactly made of money so I taped a page from a newspaper to hide the cover from Max and read it to him later that night.
I don’t know what’s more dangerous: a child spending time with tigers or jumping out of a plane to go skydiving.This horrible book is only 18 pages, but it felt like an eternity while I was reading it.
First of all, that title!Second of all, Sam L Jackson!Finally, So I'm off the fuck to sleep. Yeah I know I'm at work. But I don't give a damn. Bitch. Thanks for bringing this to me Adina...
Because, and I don't want to undersell this, I really think my children would be awesome.
However, there are three primary reasons I have thus far refused to give in to any maternal instinct: 1) pregnancy and childbirth hold no appeal whatsoever as I don't think the whole host/parasite dynamic is that magical, 2) with my luck, my children would be cheerleaders and football players--and I just can't risk that, and 3) I would be the type of parent who would tell my kid to go the fuck to sleep--at least until they had the ability to mimic everything I said.
And the only thing I wanted from him all summer was for him to go to frackin' sleep so I could read.
I think that Mr. Motherfucking Jackson added so much to this experience, that I think that the book should be sold with a CD of this, so that parents can push play, Mr. Motherfucking Jackson can read to the kids, and mom and dad can have some alone time.
It's a 6 minute long reading of a for-adults-at-kids'-bed-time story, but Mr. Motherfucking Jackson MADE this reading.
You can hear him losing his patience, mentally counting to 5, or 10, or 100 maybe, so that he keeps from putting the kid to sleep the violent way.
I've read a lot of reviews on how this wonderful little poem reminded people of their own children or children in general.
I used to silently roam the halls of my house at somewhere around 3 AM like a good old fashioned spirit.
Now, about this poem.Imagine that read by Samuel L Jackson!It's just so awesome!The first two lines of every stanza are really sweet and cute, followed by the lines that presented sheer hopelessness of every parent!Many audio renditions of this short poem, including Samuel L Jackson's famous performance (5 min) are now available on YouTube.
5 Best.Bedtime.Story.Ever! starsI must admit I'm still wondering if I should let my son listen to this little gem or not.I'm sure he'll love it. And laugh about it. And that would just incite him more instead of helping him fall asleep.You simply need to listen to Samuel L. Jackson reading this! He does an amazing job.
So I was checking out Audible.com tonight and they were giving this away for free. And who was reading it? Samuel L. Jackson. I'm sure the text and pictures are hilarious in the print version, but with Mr. Motherfucker himself reading this, I nearly had a rupture from the laughter. And it’s especially funny to me because I don’t have kids. So I’ll be dreaming about all you parents cursing your children as I’m getting a solid 8 to 9 hours of sleep tonight. ZZZZZZZZZZZZZ......
Jackson doesn't come out when they are sleep deprived, right?
Where are all those people that told me all babies did was sleep and eat?
After one extreme acrobatic nursing session, our night went a little something like this:*Destructo plays in between mama and dada on the bed*Me: I can't function.
The Mister: I told you not to put him to bed early.
Now he won't go back to sleep.
She's done for the nig---*In walks the Diva*Me: Damn, damn, damn!The Mister: I told you so.
*Destructo's toe lands in my eye and he appropriately laughs*The Mister: She's back in bed.
Yes, it’s funny, but it’s basically a short, clever email message with a bunch of cute drawings.As you can gather from the title, the book is about a frustrated dad trying to talk his kid into going to sleep.
It made me chuckle, but I realize I’d appreciate the book more if I still had little kids.Luckily I paid less than 5 bucks for it—but still, email messages, even with pictures, are free.
Trying to look at its worth, I must say it would make a great gift for parents of little kids.
Every parent whose ever lived has, at some point (but mostly regularly, at lots of points) wanted to tell their kid GO THE FUCK TO SLEEP.
(And if you say you never wanted to, your child either didn't have vocal cords or you are telling big porkies).
This book says it on every page and the beautiful illustrations and to-the-point poetry will elicit much sympathy and humour on the part of any reader.
But perhaps not the knowing looks that will pass between the tired, sleep-deprived parents of a baby, a toddler or just an effing little brat, on receiving this book as a creative gift from you.
Oh my God, this is hilarious...
Cute. Marginally clever one-trick pony. The sad part is that as clever and as cute as this is, Mansbach isn't a good enough writer for the concept. It could have been far, far funnier, instead of relying on the constant repetition of "fuck" to carry the weight. I especially liked the page with the tiger, but mostly it was an exercise in regret that this book was not in the hands of someone like Dr. Seuss or even better, Philip Larkin. Two and a half stars, more for concept than execution.
This is a short and simple book with a few pages of rhymes about a father's desperate attempts to get his child to sleep and all the excuses a child can come up with when it's just not tired.What really made this perfect was the narration of this audio edition by none other than Samuel L.
Jackson (as well as the story he told before narrating it, about his daughter and their code phrase when it was her bedtime).
The star I deducted was for the sometimes not too original rhymes.
You can keep it simple and yet rhyme a little bit better (more variety).
I actually think my stomach muscles will be sore tomorrow from laughing so hard. So, in summation, listening to Samuel L. Jackson read this is an excellent alternative to going to the gym. For all you  Reading Rainbow  fans out there,  Levar Burton  also nails his narration of this same gem of a bedtime story.
only to sneakily turn the light on and read, until I was caught doing that and ended up with a flashlight under the covers.
I'd just climb out of bed and get another from the shelves.My parents fought a losing battle, and I am absolutely certain they would have wanted to tell me to go the fuck to sleep.
I promptly started going to bed on time...(They weren't lying when they said I'd ruin my eyesight.)Anyway, reminiscing aside -- I think most new parents would appreciate this, and even some of older kids (say, kids old enough to read under the covers).
Being only an uncle and twice great uncle I do not ever have the horror of children refusing to sleep as I can always hand them back even if i have been the fiend responsible for getting them all over hyped in the first place but even allowing for that glorious ' I wash my hands of the whole situation ' state, this book I could understand.
The strains of angst ridden parental self loathing and guilt echo gently in the background but it is the wondrously clever way in which these verses tell the story of the night journey from patience, through exasperation, touching in on mild despair and fury to the relief oh so swiftly over as the circle begins again.
Best book ever!  The flowers doze low in the meadowsand high on the mountains so steep.My life is a failure, I’m a shitty-ass parent.Stop fucking with me, please, and sleep.
Isn't everything better when read by Samuel L. Jackson? Listen for yourself and download the audio version for free here. This is a cute and only slightly threatening childrens story for adults. I love it! =)
Al término de mi último libro, me vi a mí mismo en la necesidad de leer algo que me hiciera feliz y apaciguara mis mórbidos pensamientos. Lo encontré.El himno de todos los padres cansados en todas partes."My life is a failure, I'm a terrible parent.Stop fucking with me, please, and sleep."
This book jogged it to the front of my brain once again.Picture a rather large Italian American man, think Chris Christie, think Tony Soprano.
Listen...hear the heavy New Jersey accents......and....Tony: So, uhh, d'ya tink yous can draw my kid?Me: Um, sure.
(slap to the back of the head).Kid: F$#k dad!
I know it would not be funny if all of them did it, but it is just so funny when it happens....that such a innocent little angelic face can produce this word makes me giggle.I think Tony would have no issue reading this book to hid children.
