https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/37301.Rules_of_Prey
Okay, here's the deal: I like me some stupid thriller books every once in awhile, and so I thought I would take a chance with Lucas Davenport.
But what you haven't heard is this story was so much fun.
I turned pages as fast as I could read (is there any other way?), completely caught up in the moments of impossibility and lunacy.
Let me tell ya, and this is free to all you youngsters out there, NEVER FORGET HOW MUCH FUN READING IS!
Go on, don't be shy, give your reading taste buds a new flavor.
This is the book that introduced Minneapolis homicide detective Lucas Davenport, a cunning, tough, and intelligent cop who is willing to bend the rules, if necessary, to get a dangerous killer off the streets.
That said, his best female friend is a nun.By the time he first appears, Davenport has already established his reputation as a gifted detective, and when a serial killer known as the Mad Dog, begins killing women in the Twin Cities, the Chief of Police assigns Lucas to the case.
Read only if:1. You're John Sandford's A+ Number One Fan2. You are a completionist and must read every book in the Lucas Davenport series3. You're secretly in love with/wish you were Sonny Crockett, a spiffy dressed Extra Special Maverick Detective who loves clothes and women in equal proportions, with fast cars a close third4. You never tire of the serial killer character and their 'games' with the police5. You have no problem with detectives sexing the recent victim of an attempted rape/homicide6. You are stuck in Newark Airport and this is the only book available
Having just finished reading Gathering Prey, the #25 book in John Sandford’s brilliant Prey Series, I decided to go back memory lane and read the 1st book, Rules of Prey, where we were first introduced to Minneapolis nonconformist police officer, wealthy video games creator, great dresser and ladies man, Lucas Davenport,      He was slender and dark-complexioned, with straight black hair going gray at the temples and a long nose over a crooked smile. One of his central upper incisors had been ch
Having just finished reading Gathering Prey, the #25 book in John Sandford’s brilliant Prey Series, I decided to go back memory lane and read the 1st book, Rules of Prey, where we were first introduced to Minneapolis nonconformist police officer, wealthy video games creator, great dresser and ladies man, Lucas Davenport, 
Rules of Prey is fast paced, gritty, dark and electrifying thriller of a cat-and-mouse game between not your average cop and a deranged and organized serial killer.
Lieutenant Lucas Davenport will have to use more than the laid down rules and use some unorthodox methods of his own if he’s ever going to stop the psychotic killer down.
Neither does the long-running series that followed.Lieutenant Lucas Davenport is officially the head of the intelligence division of the Minneapolis police force, but his real job title should be Head Rat Catcher.
When a psycho nicknamed the 'maddog' starts a killing spree and leaves behind notes outlining his rules of murder Davenport finds himself drawn into a dangerous and very personal contest of wills.John Sandford (real name John Camp) was a Pulitzer Prize winning journalist who covered crime in Minnneapolis, and his books have a casual way of making the procedural and political side of police work seem authentic in the context of thriller plots.
I am giving five stars to the book and six stars to my quick run through of every one else's reviews which was hilarious.
Poor Lucas rates from 5 stars for being brilliant and intelligent to 1 star for being a complete "scumbag".
Only the best books get such diversity of opinion:)I liked Lucas myself although only on paper.
In real life yes he would be obnoxious but as the principal character in my detective novel he was great.
At least the women in his life knew how to treat him.
Really, taking pains to avoid leaving physical evidence does not make the serial killer overflowing with intelligence it is rudimentary logic and pointing it out in such an obvious way and actually calling the character intelligent does not make him so.It wasn't until a third of the way through the book this talented investigator actually started investigating.
Instead we are treated to the minutiae of inspector Davenport's life.
Being a rich so-called "ladies man" (sleeping with witnesses and reporters who leek information about the case hardly deserves the title "ladies man") does not make the character an interesting protagonist, and in fact he is as dull and predictable.This is a truly awful piece of rot.
From there it's a series of things real cops would never do: the boss wants him to break into a suspect's house & have a look (p.150), he savagely beats a man (p.264) but I guess this is supposed to be ok because that man was much larger and had been a boxer, he calls a woman the 'c' word (p.265), he believes finding something incriminating during another illegal search of a suspect's home would allow them to get a warrant (p.410), which makes me wonder if they even had the authority to put the tracker on his car (p.
Though his eyes were warm, his smile betrayed him. Lucas Davenport is smart, good-looking, rich, and so obviously effective a cop that he transcends departments and has his own Office of Special Intelligence, an acknowledgment both of his well-tended network of informants and his well-documented tendency to go off and do his own thing. He's destined to be assigned to every high-profile case the Twin Cities have to offer. Oh, and he drives a Porsche.A character this cool shouldn't work as anythi
Sandford tells a good, compelling story, and he lets the reader form their own opinions about Lucas.
That's kind of adorably geeky.Lucas is called into action in Rules of Prey because of the "maddog killer," a serial rapist and murderer who is on the verge of setting off a city-wide panic.
Lucas knows how to work a media circus and also how to get sometimes-shady things done behind the scenes, so he's assigned as kind of a rogue investigator operating outside Robbery-Homicide even though he's in cooperation with them.We also see the maddog's perspective.
I will never read another John Sanford book.
John Sanford can write.
Many authors err on making their protagonist too perfect.
He errs in making them too scummy so that the reader may have trouble identifying with his characters and caring/sympathizing with them.
For example, his main character in Rules of Prey treats women despicably, and the ladies are alright with poor treatment after a little fussing, like that's going to happen.
I don't like being in their heads, and I don't want to have anything to do them.
I don't like them -- any of them.
I have concluded that I am not a John Sanford fan.
Another Lucas Davenport weekend.
After reading #21 in the series I had a hankerin' to go back to some of the early ones.
Rules of Prey introduces Lucas Davenport, the badass Minneapolis cop who plays by his own rules but gets the job done when no one else can.
He goes head to head with a smart lawyer who is also a serial killer.
The serial killer theme is soooo '80s!
I didn't read the series in order my first time through.
Had I started with this first one I don't know if I'd have continued with the series.
There are a few things from this story that stick out and the fact that Lucas Davenport comes across as likeable at times and then a downright twat the next made it quite an interesting tale in what is a well saturated detective series market.
It works and makes for good reading but the story needs to really excel to make an impact.
It was enjoyable to see these two come up against each other.I listened to the audiobook and the narrator really grew on me.
Okay, I can say that Davenport is not like anything other cop character I've ever read before.
He has the 'you scratch my back, I'll scratch yours' attitude when it comes to his informants, and although some would say not entirely legal, it gets the job done.
As I mentioned, email me if you want to discuss the book cause there's something that happens in the book that I wasn't happy with (but it in no way changes my view or rating) but I don't want to blow it for those who are going to read it.
This book is filled with the opposite of what the summary suggests! No one in the book can be described as half way intelligent and the author repeating continuously that they are doesn't change the fact that they're not. Couldn't take it anymore, had to quit about two thirds of the way through; only reason I lasted that long was the hope that all the characters would be killed off thereby redeeming the blasted book.
I found the book very engaging so it was an easy read for me but I did have a few issues with it as well.SynopsisThe "maddog" murderer who is terrorizing the Twin Cities is two things: insane and extremely intelligent.
But when the brilliant Lieutenant Lucas Davenport--a dedicated cop and a serial killer's worst nightmare--is brought in to take up the investigation, the maddog suddenly has an adversary worthy of his genius.I enjoyed the plot of the story a lot.
All those things you love with a mystery, but you do know who the bad guy is from the start of the story, so the mystery is well known, so that is a little bit of a downfall.
It’s taken me awhile to get around to John Sandford’s work, Rules of Prey being first published in 1987.No idea why it’s taken me so long but I did.If the rest of the books are as good as this one I’m in for a real treat.Being a cop for Lucas Davenport is a hobby.
After every one of his kills MADDOG leaves a note for the police.
Each note reveals a rule that MADDOG adheres to.
MADDOG gets away leaving a trail of destruction in his wake.By a piece of persistent police work and a streak of good luck MADDOG’S true identity is at last revealed.
There are perhaps 2-3 other short brutal sections from the villain's viewpoint, you can safely skim the brutal plans and actions, they don't really advance the plot.After chapter 3 or so, the book picks up speed.
The police and peripheral characters are almost all very likeable; none of this cliched "Bad boss" stuff here.
It wasn’t needed and it didn’t last long.By 2/3 the way through the book, at 1am last night, I was so captivated I read through until 4am to finish.
Honest and in character for Davenport.As it is said in the book, Davenport is a real player of "the game".Great stuff.The best accolade?
His number one lover, Jennifer Carey, often goes behind his back and spies on him, betraying his case secrets to the world in the race to report important crime details in her television reporter job.
He tries to avoid blame games in the process of police work, and he is willing to apologize for his anger when the teamwork required for tracking perpetrators goes wrong.
Lucas Davenport is NOT a believer in rules.Unlike Lucas, maddog has created a checklist of rules to obey once he has picked The Chosen.
Serial killer stalks women.
Cop stalks serial killer.
It’s the first in the Lucas Davenport series, which has the distinction of not only providing us with the protagonist’s side of the story, but we also get to follow the killer as he plans and executes his horrendous deeds.
The reader is never really in the dark about the serial killer’s identity, but it’s eerily disturbing to know what the killer’s next move is going to be while the hot-shot detective struggles to figure things out.
If you consider yourself a discerning reader of thriller novels, you’ll already own this.
5 starsI really love reading pure suspense books (not romantic suspense), it was my favorite genre before I got sucked in by romance books.
Don't get me wrong, he loves smart, strong women and honestly respects them, but has slight issues with commitment (nothing new there).
And I love how he evolves throughout the series.The suspense plot in books is well developed, I was on the edge of my seat every single time.
Some of them focus more on the thriller and some on the mystery part, but it works.All in all, a series every suspense reader should try out.
Okay, so this book is a little dated, however, the plot line was fast moving, it had great characters and an interesting, complicated villain.
I ended up developing a love/hate relationship with Lucas Davenport, he is an overindulgent, brainy, macho, cad, but I still liked him a lot..Lol. We started this series as a buddy-read and from all of it's great reviews I am looking forward to it getting better and better.
I hope as Lucas's character matures he turns into more of an upstanding individual without loosing too much of his flawed, campy personality.
Great narration mixed with somewhat antagonistic characters excite and motivate me towards the next installment.
And he does without any problem set somebody up as an target even if the female in question never knew what Davenport is up to.He gets involved in serial killer case and nobody seems to get anywhere as the killer takes good care of his forensic footprint and whatnot.
This book is told from two different people the serial killer and Davenport.
Davenport has no such issues he seems to do what he likes and most people in this first book have no issue with that at all.I will revisit this character for sure wondering how the Davenport person evolves.
Jphn Sandford's Rules of Prey is an action-packed, fast moving book about the hunt for a serial killer known as Maddog; it features a brilliant, womanizing and interesting detective, Lucas Davenport as the protagonist, but equally important is the reader gleans an inside glimpse into the mind of the anti-hero who is identified at the onset and a good portion of the novel is conveyed throught the perspective of the killer.
I strongly recommend this to anyone who enjoys the genre of thriller, crime and police procedures.Rules of Prey by John Sandford was a delight to read, and I would like to thank all my Good Reads friends who recommended this to me.
He preys on attractive women with dark hair and eyes and leaves a note attached, outlining his “rules” for eluding capture when killing someone.
Lieutenant Lucas Davenport, a seasoned investigator with unorthodox methods, is asked to work with the homicide cops to find maddog and bring him down.
Maddog is actually pleased as he sees Davenport as a worthy adversary.I enjoyed this case and having the killer’s perspective as the investigation proceeded.
Lucas Davenport is an enigma and somewhat ethically challenged, though he gets the job done.
His love life, however, leaves quite a bit to be desired.I like the storytelling style of Sanford, which is brisk and to the point.
I finally lost it for this book when the police officers murder an innocent man who was protecting his property.
The cops only cared about how it looked and how the media would react to it, not that they ended a man's life because of their own mistakes.
Sandford also didn't prance around his female characters, afraid of negative portrayals.
Ultimately he was just trying to do the right thing and catch the killer.Still, the book dragged on.
I know this is an early book by Sandford so I'm sure he improves, but I don't know.
It's a well known, popular, long-running series that I've read a couple in.
I remembered them as being OK, maybe even pretty good, but it was clear that, while fairly self-contained, the series really should be read completely in order.
I was very impressed, so I read a couple of his standalones & the first of his Virgil Flowers series, a spin-off of this one.
Again, all were impressive, 4 star reads.
My library has this series in audiobook format, so I'm taking the plunge.Again, I was impressed.
He wrote a couple of nonfiction books & then tried fiction starting with the first Kidd book.
The Sandford Davenport books are all quite good, although Lucas’s relationships with women I sometimes find superficial and irritating.
In this one, he’s been tasked with finding the “Mad Dog Killer,” a man -- whose predations and POV we are subjected to -- who is killing women.
(His relationship with her is highly improper, in my view and hardly necessary since he’s sleeping with a victim of the Mad Dog Killer - also extremely unprofessional and irregular.) Then he uses a TV reporter (whom he regards as dumber than a rock) to leak all sorts of incorrect information clearly to irritate the killer.
Este género de literatura proporciona-nos um retrato psicológico credível do serial killer. Essa é a principal razão que me leva a ler estórias deste tipo!
He is at least honest in his way and provides excellent insight into how police really appear to work.I love that Davenport collects poetry, that he creates video games, how he develops the games.
You can't help but want to keep turning the pages.The StoryThere's a serial killer loose and the media thinks Davenport walks on water.
It's why Daniels intends for Davenport to work parallel with Homicide on this case: he's brilliant and quirky, and the police department needs this case solved.
He collects guns, makes a nice living off the video games he creates, and likes the ladies and the track.
Assim que li a sinopse de "Sem Regras" quis lê-lo e ainda bem que o fiz.
Escrito no final da década de 1980, em "Sem Regras" acompanhamos Lucas Davenport e uma equipa de polícias e detetives na busca por "cão raivoso", o nome dado a um assassino em série, isto numa altura em que não existiam telemóveis, Internet, bases de dados policiais, análises de ADN...
Lucas revelou-se um personagem original, no mínimo, que atua um bocado à margem da Lei quando assim o entende para melhor obter Justiça, além de ir desrespeitando umas regras de vez em quando.
