https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/627839.Nothing_At_All
I was beginning to think few of these early Caldecott books were very good.
But this was a fun little book.
I think it is better than the winner for the year.
One puppy is invisible.
It turns out well in the end.The story is quirky, the art has it's own pleasing style and it uses it's own font.
It's a fun story.
It makes me a little sad to think on.
The kids thought it might be fun to have an invisible dog but then thought it would be better to be able to see it.
I remember no odd messages in the text when I was a kid.
Yesterday, as I read it, I thought, "Hum, what exactly is the point of this story?" and I decided, with a not-too-pleasant sensation, that it seemed to indicate we must change in order to be loved!
(In the tale, the two puppies that can be seen get adopted by loving children--little nothing-at-all, the puppy who couldn't be seen, had been perfectly happy up until then, but now he decides he wants to become a real Visible Puppy in order to have the children adopt him, too.) Silly me?
1942 Caldecott HonorFavorite illustration: p. 11 The map of Nothing-at-all's route to try to find his brothers.Favorite line: "Well done!" cried a voice which was the jackdaw's. "You are a pleasant-looking shape, I must say. Keep it up!"Kid-appeal: If our audience of two could have a vote, they'd say, "Yes!" Cute story. Delightful book design with cute illustration, fun font, and great word choices--twirling/whirling/swirling; dizzy/busy; blossom bushes/puddle ponds.

Oh my gosh!
So adorable!
I absolutely LOVED this story along with the illustrations of the "nothing at all dog" being an un-illustrated circle on the page.
So cute.
I think if this book hadn't of been up against Make Way for Ducklings it probably would have won the Caldecott for the year.
And the story of the little puppy trying to fit in but still being accepted by his brothers no matter what is timeless, a story that my little girl loved listening to.
She also loved guessing what would show up each day as the puppy would spend each sunrise "busy getting dizzy."
I'm not a fan of this one and never saw it as a child a decade after it was published. Maybe children would enjoy the story of a dog that is invisible coming into his own...through magic? The story started like it was a fable to convey that was setting up an important lesson at the end - The illustrations were too contained with several exceptions, more like ornaments accompanying lots of text, and I didn't like the typeface either.
**** Caldecott Honor (1942) ****A truly imaginative and inventive story about an invisible dog who learns a magic way to be seen. "An unusual reversal of reality." - Ms Bubbles SockieP
Ellie remembered reading this book a long time ago and picked it up again from the library.
Oh, Wanda Gág, I love your quirky stories, your art, and even your distinctive font!
"He was not very tallNor yet very small;He looked like nothing,Like nothing at all."Nothing-at-all is perfectly contented to be invisible as long as he can do all of the same things his visible brothers can do.
Until, one day, the brothers are adopted by a boy and a girl, who don't take Nothing-at-all because they cannot see him.
A friendly Jackdaw, whose task it is to "carry home everything I see," has helpfully found a Book of Magic which contains a spell to make something that is Nothingy into Somethingy.
I loved this book - and if it weren't so long I would surely share it with the preschoolers!
There are three orphaned dogs: Pointy, Curly and Nothing-at-all who's invisible.
After two children adopt Pointy and Curly, Nothing-at-all wants to become visible.
A Jackdaw bird helps him by telling him a spell from the Book of Magic: every day for nine days he must repeat “I’m busy getting dizzy!” at sunset while whirling around.
The illustrations are great and I love that the doghouses are shaped like the dogs (pointy, curly and round).
And the typeface is fantastic - I think it was handlettered and it gives the book a cozy feel.
If this book wasn't a 1942 Caldecott Honor winner, I probably would never have picked it up, although I do love Wanda Gag's color illustrations.
This book is about three orphaned dog brothers named Pointy, Curly and Nothing-at-all.
One day two children come to adopt some dogs and see his brothers and take them home.
He meets a jackdaw who helps him become visible by repeating a magic chant and whirling in a circle for nine days, which gives him a shape and form.
With his new visible body, he is able to rejoin his brothers and be adopted by the children.
2.5I love love dogs.
And I love children's books.
I just didn't love love this book about dogs.
There was quite a bit to find cute, but you just cannot help but feel this book is dated.
The end was both nice, and also I felt myself wishing it were different.
The story, about being invisible, can be a great one - especially for a middle child.
You can probably use this book as a tool to reach a child that you suspect feels a bit overlooked.
Sadly, I just can't say you should buy this one.
Grab it at a library.
Are all editions of this picture book oversized? The one I borrowed from my local library is huge, and I can’t help but think all books should be available in this size for story time! In any case, though I didn’t like this book as much as Millions of Cats, it’s a pretty good pet story. Nothing at All’s quest to become visible would make a really nice flannel board, thanks to its incremental changes to the invisible dog’s appearance and its repetitive refrain: “I’m busy getting dizzy!” I also love the way the dogs’ houses correspond to their shapes.
I read this so many times as a child. I'm not sure why I loved it so. I know the other kids were making fun of me at the school library for reading picture books, that's how long I kept reading it. But despite my lingering love for this book, once I stopped reading it, I forgot its name. Thank you, knower-of-all-things Internet, for returning this beloved book to me.
So I wrote a review for this book but I guess I forgot to upload it. Basically, it's so-so on all fronts. I like that each dog lives in a house whose roof matches it's own ears (a pointy roof for the point-eared dog...). And I think having a dog that is a dog but is invisible even to itself is a nice metaphor of self-discovery but I think other books tell that story better
An old Caldecott Honor Book. It was actually pretty ordinary though it did have an odd font and an odd almost Buffy-esque use of language. It was also a dog story, which as usual really doesn't do anything for me. Certainly not showing its age as much as it could be.
Finishing up the Minnesota's great pioneer of children's author/illustrator.
Fun book about an invisible puppy
Caldecott Honor 1942Cute text and fun pictures.
I remember relating to the invisible dog as a small child. I felt so invisible and doubted that I would ever exist. Sadly I could not relate to ever being found...
Interesting fantasy, will appeal to many readers.
Caldecott Honor Book, 1942 Favorite line: "He was not very tallNor yet very small;He looked like nothing,Like nothing at all."Favorite illustration: pages 26-27
Beautiful, understated illustrations with warm coral color palette and soft pencil shading.
My favorite part is where the dog says, "I'm busy gettin' dizzy."
Enjoy her drawings.Caldecott honor.
Caldecott Honor--1942
My favorite illustrations: page 4 and page 11I also really like the font used in this book.
Deserves its classic status. Wonderful illustrations. Perhaps his ability to become visible is symbolic of something???
