https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/31374.A_Great_Deliverance
A really attractive, talented, charismatic main character who knows exactly what he is doing.
(although as this book was written in 1988 nearly everyone smokes all the time)2.
The last scenes in the psychiatric hospital made me reach for the tissues.4.
The author knows how to write.
Just occasionally she gets a bit carried away with setting her scenes but she does it so nicely I can forgive her.5.
Best of all there are a LOT more books in the series.
I love a good series:) If you have not read this yet I strongly recommend it!
Though the idea of picking it up really peaked my interest, I think the fact that a number of books in the series are quite long put me off.
Since I’m retired, I finally figured if I was ever going to read long books, now’s the time.
This is a terrific British tale, surprisingly written by an American author.
I feel like I grasped a true sense of the British countryside in this novel.The plot is captivating.
I highly recommend A Great Deliverance to all lovers of British crime stories with great characterization and sense of place.
And I'm not sorry."Yet as Lynley and Havers wind their way through Keldale's dark labyrinth of secret scandals and appalling crimes, they uncover a shattering series of revelations that will reverberate through this tranquil English valley—and in their own lives as well.
She's doing a good job, since she mastered the English dialogue so well, that I would never have suspected her being American.A friend gave me the first book as a gift, and after finishing it, I ventured off into the author's other works, just to discover that it was the beginning of 19 books in this Inspector Lynley series.
The grown ups turned their heads away from the revolting, obese little girl, hoping the problem will go away.
I was moved by the dark, Yorkshire setting and the budding friendship of Lynley and Havers.
It had such a gritty conclusion, that I went to the library the next day and checked out the next book in the series.
Detective Sergeant Barbara Havers, who has recently been demoded to a uniform policewoman, is put back into the detective role when a "delicate" case is brought before Scotland Yard.
What makes this book so much more than a Scotland Yard mystery is George's ability to marry historical and literary elements with the here and now.
If you don't have the patience, I recommend the BBC's The Inspector Lynley Mysteries television series.
George's ability to present an evolving and developing character is outstanding for any genre, but even more so for a mystery story, where character is often far subordinate to plot.
We don't ever get it all at once, but in pieces, each one adding to what builds into a nuanced understanding of the character's strengths and weaknesses.George also has a great facility for moving quickly from one venue/character to another while always assuring the reader does not lose the thread of the story.
There are many characters whose roles keep evolving, but George always gives the reader the 2-3 words that assure you always know the connection of the character to previous points in the story.
A 61 yr old farmer lies in his barn, brutally murdered, his head chopped off......the head lying a few yards from the body, where it had rolled after being severed.
I’m not sorry.” Or did she......?Two unlikely detectives from New Scotland Yard are paired together to solve the case.
This odd pairing adds to the tension as they both graple with their demons & each other while trying to solve the case.Elizabeth George was an english teacher and it shows in her writing.
Three hundred years ago, as legend goes, the frightened Yorkshire villagers smothered a crying babe in Keldale Abbey, where they'd hidden to escape the ravages of Cromwell's raiders.Now into Keldale's pastoral web of old houses and older secrets comes Scotland Yard Inspector Thomas Lynley, the eighth earl of Asherton.
Havers, who here in the first book is presented in all her hideous glory as receiving a Very Last Chance at being permanently assigned to Scotland Yard's prestigious Criminal Investigation Division, seems hell-bent for leather on tossing the opportunity away because, as Lynley says, "{she's} mad at him" and justifiably so.But, in patented mystery fashion, miscreants are punished and those less culpable find some measure of relief from their hideous, tormented sadness.
Lynley and Havers are fascinating characters, complex and marvelously well-drawn (except for one somewhat gratuitous Lynley interlude).
I love the way Havers is allowed to express her resentment and how her inbred distrust and dislike of nobility is thwarted by Lynley's compassion and decency.
For example, it would've been enough that Lynley's friend Simon be crippled, but he has to be unattractive, as well, dark to Lynley's fair--and the fact is underscored by having Havers think the two men are like Apollo and Hephastus.
All that being said, I liked Lynley and Havers so much that I want to give the second book in the series a try (and hope that I'll find fewer things to criticise).
This book starts out with Inspector Lynley of Scotland Yard in a village of Keldale, investigating a murder there with Sergeant Barbara Havers.
They are both opposites as Lynley is very good looking and wealthy and Havers lives in poverty and is dumpy and just ordinary.Roberta Teys is found in her best dress, an axe in her lap, seated in the stone barn beside her Father's.
When Inspector Lynley and Haver's meet their destination in Keldale, the village is deserted.
It seems that William Teys is very well liked in his community.
I've been in a book slump for the longest time.
This book marks the introduction of the characters that spawned the popular PBS detective series based on the titular Inspector Lynley, and his friends and foes.
The reasons, of course, are mentioned later in the novel, but one can't but wonder...Due to her innate inability to work well with others, she was demoted from the CID, but is paired with our good Inspector to travel to the beautiful countryside of York to solve what seems to be the gruesome murder of a man by his daughter.
Ms. George plays wonderfully with the dry elements of British humour that I have come to love in such novels.
It's the first in the series and sometimes the first outing is not the best whilst an author is establishing characters but I am really not sure I can bear to try another unless the author has been given a sound talking-to and promised to reform.
There were some glimmers of interesting potential threads which may or may not progress in a more satisfactory manner in later novels but too many were piled onto this first in the series.For the rest...
I think the overall idea is to have some theme of the British class system running through the series and it could have worked if it hadn't been handled in such a crass overblown manner.What a disappointment!
I wavered between strongly disliking this book, actively despising the author and reading it in a compulsive how could this get any worse kind of way.
The other possible explanation is that the author has no shame and a tenuous grip on reality.Even weirder is that these stock stereotypes are raging hormonal messes who self articulate their emotions in a continuous inner dialogue that is wince inducing.The worst bit is that the last 5 pages are actually rather decent and this could have been an ok thriller instead of intellectual excrement.
Goodness Gracious, I love this series.
Elizabeth George is, in my opinion, the best mystery writer alive today.
The ending hits you like a slap and yet you're left wondering how in the world you never saw it coming.
Of course THAT was what was happening!
But Elizabeth George is a master manipulator and character constructor.
There are few characters in literature I enjoy more than Barbara Havers and Sir Thomas Lynley.
The ins and outs of their relationship over the course of this series is enthralling.
I enjoyed going back and revisiting the start of their partnership and friendship.
That I hesitated to read the Elizabeth George series pieced together in my home for years, is surprising given how well I like it and how compellingly-authored it is.If I had had any doubt, after it taking a couple of chapters to clarify the protagonists and get down to character-acquaintance business; the ending throws your emotions for a loop.
However, I feel tempted to rejoin this cast of wonderful, realistic, feeling characters much sooner.Now that sergeant Barbara Havers has, through this repugnant Scotland Yard's case, released her own family's pain and confided it at last to inspector Thomas Lynley; I can't wait to see their friendship take flight.
First the superficial.
I'm having a hard time getting over how annoying a couple of the characters were.
It's difficult to enjoy a book when you have such antipathy to ridiculous characters.
I did like Lynley, but his partner...
And shouldn't a police sergeant have a bit more control over herself?To be fair, it was written in the 1980s, and suffers some from the trends of the time.
Ok, so maybe I didn't like it all that much?
But I liked Lynley.
Keep Lynley and ditch the rest, and we might have something I don't cringe to read.
The arc of personal story that runs behind the crimes and through the novels is truly wonderful, and her brilliant portrayal of race and class issues builds to the truly startling "With No One As Witness" and the revelatory "What Came Before He Shot Her." George has grown so much as a writer over the course of this series -by these last two she was taking chances some of her most devoted readers resent.
Both of the women who read her books (Donata Peters and Davina Porter) are truly gifted performers - and they bring so much to the story by letting us hear the class-marking variety of accents.
3.5 STARS - I picked up this mystery because Elizabeth George is one of the authors that had escaped me over the years.
I knew next to nothing about this series and didn't know what to expect for characters, locale or time frame.
What I got was a murder mystery with wonderfully complex, well-drawn, yet flawed main characters in Lynley and Havers.
While I could do with a little less descriptions and some of the issues addressed were more gruesome and shocking than expected, the combination of Lynley and Havers have me eager to read more books in this popular series.
I have another book later in the series published in 2008 so I may have that experience skipping over twenty years.I believe that the last book I read that was set in England was Great Expectations, a book I must have read as part of a tenth grade English class.
He sneezed loudly, wetly, and quite unforgivably into the woman’s face.” And then we move immediately into a brief description of the lady: At least six feet tall, dressed in that wonderfully insouciant mismatch of clothing so characteristic of the British upper classes, she was ageless, timeless, and she peered at him through razor blue eyes, the sort that must have reduced many a parlourmaid to tears forty years ago.
I look forward to reading more of the Inspector Lynley series.
Each character so intense with emotional depth adding to the story that creates an atmosphere impossible to abandon.
I was unable to turn away from the characters and the story they brought to life with the turning of each page.
I must thank another reader/reviewer for recommending this author.Inspector Lynley has been assigned CID Barbara Havers to accompany him on this case.
Their lives and way of thinking couldn't be further apart.
This case begins with the murder of a father found in a barn decapitated.
This was a story so riveting it deserves only the very highest of recommendations.
(I don't think I've ever used the word slut in my whole life, but after suffering through this book, I can put it in all caps and not even care.)I only kept reading to find out the mystery resolution, and then that was even more disturbing and terrible and absolutely atrocious.
I cannot believe that I slogged and endured through this entire miserable book to get to such a dark, twisted, disturbing, and AWFUL resolution.
THIS IS THE WORST BOOK I HAVE EVER READ IN MY ENTIRE LIFE, AND I HATE IT.
This was my second read of this novel, my first time having been over 20 years ago, in the mid 1990’s.
For some reason I did not find it a particularly engaging read at that time, but have been reading good reviews of more recent additions to the series.
At this second reading, I have really enjoyed this first in Elizabeth George’s Inspector Thomas Lynley and Detective Barbara Havers series.
Witnessing the working relationship between Lynley and Havers, one that develops along a bumpy path, full of small moves forward and big slides backward, provides a very engaging underlying story.
In this, the first Inspector Lynley mystery, Elizabeth George unrolls a particularly hideous plot and typically unappealing supporting cast of characters.
(In my mind he became antiques expert identical twins Leigh and Leslie Keno of Antiques Roadshow.) For those of us who watched Lynley on Mystery before we read the books, much of this will be shocking, as we know Lynley and his wife are raven-haired and Havers usually looks a little sloppy, but nowhere near barrel-shaped and pig-eyed.The book (published in 1988) does feel quite dated (but so does every George mystery) - sex abuse that will be obvious to readers goes unnoticed by the detectives until the end, and they are mystified by the psychological aspects of food hoarding.
Mysteries no longer seem mysterious. At least the ones that have fallen into my hands in the past few years.  What the hell do you mean? will be the retort of the critical friend. A non-mysterious mystery? And then, a glance will follow with this implication, criticism now tinted with concern: Marie-Jo must have hit her head on a real hard surface. Main be it’s time for brain surgery.  Before I am being taken to the hospital, however, let me explain. I believe that what has been placed on the fo
For this descriptive part alone can take fiction to greater intricacies than the just mentioned cold, technical novel.
Ah, yes, but we do live in a cold, technical society, and this affects writing.
Think of the famous Hercules Poirot’s mustache, which underlines his vanity, and an arrogance that Agatha Christie ridicules, despite the fact that he is one of most brilliant fictional detectives of all times.
That’s where Elizabeth George, who writes in the tradition of the grande dame of crime, comes in.
In A Great Deliverance, the character makes the mystery.
Psychology, as much as the murder investigation itself, constructs the plot.
Weiter gehts mit dem re-read der Inspektor Lynley Reihe :)Der erste Band war ja noch ein bisschen verhalten und viel mit persönlichen Konflikten gespickt - jetzt im zweiten stand der Mordfall schon sehr viel mehr im Vordergrund.Natürlich ist auch Thomas Lynleys Beziehung zu seiner Ex-Verlobten und seinen Freunden immer präsent, aber endlich tritt auch Barbara Havers auf den Plan.
So ganz kann ich mich ja nicht mehr an alles erinnern und ich bin gespannt, wie sich das in den Folgebänden noch entwickeln wird.Die Ermittlungen empfand ich sehr fesselnd.
That, in itself, says something.I was surprised to learn, after finishing this book, that the author is American.
I learned this about her after reading the book, because I never read the inside cover or back of a book until I have finished.
I like to be surprised, and to form my own opinion.
I am giving the book a 4 because it is well written ( I love the author's descriptive talent) but not a 5 because towards the end of the story, there were so many 'psychological' surprises popping up everywhere that I was absolutely overwhelmed.
Elizabeth George tells a wonderful tale; crafted as carefully as an elaborate quilt. She deserves the accolades she’s received, including the Anthony & Agatha Best First Novel in the USA for A Great Deliverance. I’ve read all of her novels and recommend this for all lovers of crime fiction and good writing. If she weren’t boxed into a genre, her novels would be considered for more than the usual crime prizes.
Not sure how this book got onto my to be read shelf but I really enjoyed it.
Even the secondary characters are developed so you have some feelings towards them.
Perhaps this is because it is the first in a series.The setting is a small English town and I realize that a lot of books that I truly enjoy are set in England, anyway, there is a murder and for the life of me I couldn't figure out who the murderer was.
I couldn't put the puzzle together of how these characters and events related to each other and I was shocked by the end.
" The woman stared. She was exactly the type who always reduced him to blithering idiocy. At least six feet tall, dressed in that wonderfully insouciant mismatch of clothing so characteristic of the British upper classes, she was ageless, timeless, (...)" (page 1)" She'd swept into the carriage in Doncaster, (...) and for the remainder of the trip she had alternated between imbibing the railway's foul-smelling and tepid coffee and staring at him with a disapproval that shouted Church of England at every available opportunity." (page 2)
This is a plot thick book with plenty of fascinating characters. It is a good idea to read this novel first to get a solid background of the characters. If you love rich and complex characters you will be delighted. This novel is beautifully written, has a lot of suspense and is utterly absorbing. The author leaves a message that goes far beyond a murder mystery.
As an avid reader of mystery series, why have I never picked up one of Elizabeth George's Inspector Lynley books?
The two main characters are Inspector Thomas Lynley, who is also a member of the aristocracy as the eighth earl of Asherton, and Sergeant Barbara Havers, who is definitely blue collar and it's not just the color of her uniform.
I found the development of the prickly relationship between Lynley and Havers fascinating to watch.
All in all, I found this to be a remarkable first novel by a talented writer, and I look forward to reading more about Lynley and Havers.
