https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2672717-a-poor-wise-man
It turns out to be an alternate-history imagining of what a Bolshevik revolution in a post-WWI America would look like.Well.Lily Cardew, returning home from doing Red Cross work during the war, finds herself feeling restless and unable to fit back into the familiar but rather empty social life of her wealthy family.
What I found most interesting was Rinehart's view of "the plain people," the middle classes who make up the bulk of the country and always end up caught in the middle in the struggle between labor and capital—if the plain people, some of her characters declare, would take a more active part in the workings of government and protecting their own interests, the entire country would be better off.On the other hand, the novel's ideas on religion are completely and totally cockeyed.
This book more than made up for being in the wrong genre by its surprising depth and breadth of character and theme, its complete lack of melodrama as the story played out, and a fair amount of simple wisdom about the rights and wrongs of all those competing interests.I still don't know whether or not Rinehart wrote mysteries as well as Christie, but I feel certain that Christie could never have written a drama as well as this.
Allowing for the time this was written, it was a very forward book, especially for a woman writer. While most of us would find something to disagree with, the roles of women, views of politics or religion, remembering this is from a different time where the author didn't have the decades in between to form views. In the end this is a love story, but along the way you feel the fears that people felt then.
The discontent and manipulative characters remind me of events today. It was interestingly developed with some good insights.
This is one of Mary Roberts Rinehart's romance/social dramas, set in the period right after the Armistice of 1918 and following the lives of several representatives of different socioeconomic classes in a thinly disguised Pennsylvanian city that became well known for its steel mill industry.Young Lily Cardew, heiress to a steel mill fortune, has returned home from the war where she worked in a supporting capacity, untrained but probably something vaguely medical.
They expect her to settle down, marry a society boy, do Good Works, and have children.But the unrest caused by the war and the political philosophies that have tumbled regimes around the world are sweeping through Lily's society, and she feels that she cannot return to her old life.
Equal parts, Romance, Political Commentary and Social Commentary.I down loaded this book because I had read another (modern day) book that made reference to Mary Rinehart's Mystery writing.
This book is not a Mystery novel.
As I titled this review, this novel is a Romance with some impressive political, social, and psychological observation spread throughout the story's plot.
For those who like the Romance genre, this is an excellent one.
For those, like myself, who would generally prefer reading he Yellow Pages to reading a Romance novel, this book offers a glimpse into the political, social and psychological views of early 20th Century America.
Couldn't finish31% done, can't go on. Have enjoyed two books by this author but this one has more emphasis on society's break up of classes after WWII and bores me so much that I choose not to finish it.
I love reading Mary Roberts Rinehart, have since a teen. Never read this one and after starting this, I didn't think I was going to like it. Am so glad I finished!
This book started out slow, got slower in the middle, and then, at the end, it got lyrical. I'm glad I stuck with it.
