https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/38212112-the-culture-of-narcissism
I would give this book five stars but there was not enough about me in it.
It's aces.I read this book and thought This book mirrors a society a mile wide and an inch deep.I read this book and thought My mirror shows splintered eyes haunted by failure.I read this book and thought This looks to be another let's see year for the Nucks.I read this book and thought Thanks to —————, I haven't had a decent dump in six goddamn years.I read this book and thought Man is like me, severely constipated.I read this book and thought And when it comes out, it's hard and it hurts.I read this book and thought Why can't I accept finitude?I read this book and thought Ol' Kit fucking nailed it.
He has no patience for the conservative/progressive distinction, and would rather discuss the effects of an idea or practice rather than immediately laud or damn it (so, for instance, 'feminism' isn't abruptly praised or scornfully ignored; rather, the difficulties of putting feminist doctrine into effect, and the inadequacy of feminism as a theory of society, are outlined...
Since people can no longer rely on those traditional forms, we feel a) at a loss, homeless, as if the world is out to crush us, but also, b) we're completely and increasingly dependent on the world.
The second problem is that this is not a book for people who don't know about sociology and psychology as traditions of thought.
Description from Robert Reich: In 1979, when 33-year-old Donald Trump was building Trump Tower -- his first big narcissistic project -- sociologist Christopher Lasch published “The Culture of Narcissism: American Life in an Age of Diminishing Expectations.”In his book, Lasch argued that a host of economic factors, especially rampant consumerism, had made people self-obsessed, hyper-competitive, cut off from reality, erratic, unempathetic, angry, and vindictive. As a result, he wrote, “truth has
In 1979, when 33-year-old Donald Trump was building Trump Tower -- his first big narcissistic project -- sociologist Christopher Lasch published “The Culture of Narcissism: American Life in an Age of Diminishing Expectations.”In his book, Lasch argued that a host of economic factors, especially rampant consumerism, had made people self-obsessed, hyper-competitive, cut off from reality, erratic, unempathetic, angry, and vindictive.
As a result, he wrote, “truth has given way to credibility, facts to statements that sound authoritative without conveying any authoritative information.” Lasch cited the example of Nixon’s press secretary, Ron Ziegler, who at one point “admitted that his previous statements on Watergate had become ‘inoperative.'”The narcissistic personality, Lasch wrote, will “display… the prevailing obsession with celebrity and a determination to achieve it even at the cost of rational self-interest and personal safety.
Lasch excoriates everything about modern life in an innovative way, combining a conservative respect for traditional life and morality with Freudian and to a lesser extent Marxist perspectives.
Reality TV, the increasing profusion of prideful ignorance in the face of the biggest information glut in history, and the increasing feeling of hopelessness in the battle of the sexes are all prophesied.This book is conservative but not at all libertarian--in fact, it criticizes Van Mises's belief that problems of bureaucracy enter modern life solely because of statist intervention.
The book noticeably doesn't cover religion, and it seems that Lasch respects tradition as a stabilizing, human force more than a set of particular (i.e., Christian) set of values.
It also happens to fall into a group of other books which share the same body of concerns that I have been working my way through, or around, in recent months: Daniel Boorstin’s “The Image: A Guide to Pseudo-Events in America,” Guy Debord’s “Society of the Spectacle,” Philip Rieff’s entire corpus (especially “Charisma,” but also his earlier work on Freud), and even the book I’m currently reading, Tony Judt’s “Ill Fares the Land.”All of these books discuss some aspect of social anomie, loss of community, and subsequent feelings of dissolution.
I was surprisingly a little underwhelmed by this book, not because its insights and criticisms didn't ring true but rather because they all seemed quite familiar already.
Although I liked some of the Marxist stuff I was less enthralled by the Freudian analysis that Lasch employs, which perhaps merely reflects my own biases.The book is short and straightforwardly written and is probably worthwhile for galvanizing those not already aware of our deteriorating contemporary society.
This hyper-technical book about the psychology of the current state of the Selfish Union has been really, really hard for me to get into.
But I'm wading along, hopefully learning something about you, me and everyone we know.**Update: May, 2012**Jesus, I'm STILL not done with this book.
I often find I really have to re-read entire pages a few times for it all to sink in.
I also am so intrigued by the various minutiae (like how narcissism has changed the role of sports in human culture) that I find my mind wandering off on tangents constantly, and then realize I haven't actually been reading for 20 minutes and have to start the page over yet again.
By draining the curriculum not merely of academic but of practical content, educators deprived students of challenging work and forced them to find other means of filling time which the law nevertheless required them to spend in school […] Though teachers and administrators deplored their students’ obsession with popularity, they themselves encouraged it by giving so much attention to the need to get along with others – to master the cooperative habits considered indispensable to industrial success.Society no longer expects authorities to articulate a clearly reasoned, elaborately justified code of law and morality; nor does it expect the young to internalize moral standards of the community.
Reader, pass by!
This farrago of ludicrous banalities could have been a good book: interesting, informative, critical.
Instead, the author has squandered the opportunity — and the reader's time — with two hundred and sixty-eight dull pages of pompous, pious, neo-conservative cant.
The book is a fake: "All hat and no cattle!" There are no real arguments being advanced here in a coherent and logical discourse; merely a piling-on of assertion and anecdote.
You'd learn more about mid-century America's culture of narcissism (and have more fun) by listening to Carly Simon sing, "You're So Vain (You Probably Think This Song Is About You)."
A stunning work, written by a man who defies our current definitions of conservative and liberal, which were born in the 1960s.
Lasch discusses obscure thinkers without describing their ideas.
The book seems to be discussing less a world without the family, and more so a world where the progressive and capitalist dreams were turning into iron cages.
In that regard Lasch was right, and our poverty of ideas in the face of the current crisis is because of those cages we lavishly built for ourselves.
I've got this theory that the best non-fiction books are the ones that don't tell me anything I don't already know, but they are great because they can explain what I already know and what I experience everyday, while I can't do this.
And it seems to me that it's better to have some explanations than just to whine mindlessly.(I came up with this nice little theory the moment I finished the book, and I haven't elaborated on it ever since.
But anyway, the fact remains: this is an excellent, enlightening work of non-fiction.)
Chock full of trenchant insights about what forms and constitutes our cultural narcissism. A tad too much Freud and Marx for my taste, but even those frameworks are utilized deftly.
Christopher Lasch unleashes a brisk polemic against the proliferation of narcissism in American culture.
Lasch examines how pathological narcissism has affected labour, sport, sex and especially the family (no wonder he was so admired by conservative Christians; although not a believer himself, his analysis of the foibles of liberal permissiveness are exceptional).
Lasch died before the Internet Age but it would be interesting to see what his critiques would have been about the World Wide Web - what is more narcissistic than selfies and likes (but plz like this review!!!!!!!!).
Because of the Industrial Revolution, he posits, and the subsequent absence of the father in the home as an authoritarian disciplinarian – general authority shifted from the home to the corporation and the state, which undermined a healthy sense of self and groundedness for all members of the family, and people in general, a life that was balanced and made sense.
What Bannon describes is that which Lasch details in this book forty years ago—“The Managerial and Professional Elite as Ruling Class”; but, again, it’s gotten worse.
Or, meaningful work done right, a disintermediation of the managerial and professional elite that has come between people and self-actualization.
A couple times I almost tossed this aside, but then I rather liked it in the end.At times it seemed ranty and overly focused on the 70s.
So, while disorienting at first, I appreciated Lasch's ecumenical approach -- I don't think either side has all the answers and there are surely things to criticize American capitalism for as well as to praise the American family for.Lasch ties these disparate critical threads together in a persuasive criticism of a decade that is, for all its seeming differences, it similar to our own.
In some ways, this was the most sobering realization for me -- that many of the legitimate criticisms he makes are still extant and arguably worse in more than a few cases today.
من اروع ما قرأت
Η κουλτούρα του ναρκισσισμού του Κρίστοφερ Λας είναι ένα βιβλίο που μιλά για την αμερικανική κοινωνία και μάλιστα εκδοθέν το 1979.
Σκιαγραφώντας την έκφραση του φαινομένου του ναρκισσισμού σ' ένα αμιγώς ψυχολογικό επίπεδο και φτάνοντας στις κοινωνικές και πολιτιστικές του εκδηλώσεις (αθλητισμός, εκπαίδευση, οικογένεια, διαπροσωπικές σχέσεις), μας δίνει ένα ανησυχητικό πορτρέτο της αμερικανικής (κι όχι μόνο) κοινωνίας.
Ένας εντυπωσιακά διορατικός και σχολαστικός στη μελέτη του ( αρκεί να κοιτάξει κανείς την εκτενή βιβλιογραφία στο τέλος του βιβλίου καθώς και τις εκατοντάδες αναφορές που διατρέχουν το κείμενο) Λας που αξιώνει ν' ακουστεί σήμερα, ίσως περισσότερο από ποτέ.
As the public world came to be seen as a mirror of the self, people lost the capacity for detachment and hence for playful encounter, which presupposes a certain distance from the self.
In seeks to create needs, not to fulfill them; to generate new anxieties instead of allaying old ones." (180)"In the hierarchies of work and power, as in the family, the decline of authority does not lead to the collapse of social constraints.
Sometimes I felt the author was trying too hard to write complex words, but nonetheless, the meaning behind his writing was enlightening.
Some of the comments Lasch writes, I do not agree with and find them a far stretch to explain the complexity of our generation or even human nature.
I always thought the definition of narcissism was simply "someone who is self-absorbed." This book explains the more complex meaning of a narcissist.
I can't even begin to outline specific sections that were especially cogent and acerbic, but the chapters on education, sports, and reproduction left deep impressions on my understanding of the current ailments wreaking havoc on modern America.
It is a diagnosis and prognosis of our current milieu, and Mr. Lasch brings his insight with startling force and clarity.
I could go on and on about this book but as I stated in the beginning, it is always powerful and slightly unnerving to open a cultural critique written nigh 40 years ago that can still rattle sensibilities today.
I have read a decent number of cultural studies and critiques, but none as clinical nor focused on the psyche of the modern American.
Its novelty in that regard, as well as its genius, make it required reading for any student of American culture.
It is depressing to become aware of just how conformed we are on a pre-conscious level to such ugly cognitive and cultural norms.
The best of us, of which I will never be, are all fully blighted products of the modern age.
Probably Lasch's most famous work, this is also, I think, the most easily misunderstood. The titular "narcissism" is decidedly not vanity; Narcissus's fatal weakness was not the admiration of his reflection, but his inability to tell where his reflection ended and his face started. The Minimal Self (the third book in Lasch's trilogy, which began with Haven in a Heartless World) contains a more mature and, in my opinion, more precise formulation of the critique of the self found in Culture. Culture, on the other hand, is less obscure; the material examined here is more accessible to a general audience.
A bit dated, sure, but: SO. FREAKING. GREAT. Outrage without solutions? Check. Thoroughgoing critique of modern life without praising the past or providing any optimism about the future whatsoever? Check. Leftist writing so moralistic and judgmental that it's essentially paleoconservatism? Check and MATE, brahski. Read this one. It's fun, fun, fun. We're all doomed, but hey, we never had a chance in the first place. Vitam continet una dies (lawlz).
What a pity that a book about a very fascinating concept should turn out so awful; readers, be sure you have your PhDs in sociology, psychology, and vocabulary before embarking on this journey. The book is more dense than a black hole. I couldn't tell what the author was trying to say at all, his arguments are not easy to follow, etc. I feel like the author used this book as an ostentatious display of his own intelligence instead of a means of explaining his ideas.
And I thought I was a pessimist.....
Where we find ourselves now, during this era of celebrity masking itself as leadership, gossip substituting for success, and soundbites an acceptable alternative to thoughtful analysis, is exactly the reality Lasch feared when he wroteThe perception of the world as a dangerous and forbidding place, though it originates in a realistic awareness of the insecurity of contemporary social life, receives reinforcement from the narcissistic projection of aggressive impulses outward.
Though he briefly touches on the subject of narcissistic parenting, he's far more critical of social workers and activists for interfering with families.
This interference, according to Lasch, fosters detachment, panicky self-doubt and guilty permissiveness that ultimately do more harm than good.
When he quotes Ellen Richards as saying that children are not "the property of their parents" but "assets of the state," he only addresses the latter part of her statement.
The question of whether children are property goes unaddressed and unchallenged by Lasch.
Still, this book is worth reading (with a grain of salt).
Excepting the references to Vietnam or Quebec separatists, the preface had me feeling as if I were reading a book published within the last year when, as in the 70s, "Bourgeois society seems everywhere to have used up its store of constructive ideas.
The political crisis of capitalism reflects a general crisis of western culture, which reveals itself in a pervasive despair of understanding the course of modern history or of subjecting it to rational direction" (xiii).
Lasch's reference to the changing kinds of prominent mental illnesses is revealing.
I think it's a little narcissistic to think anybody would be interested in reading your grumpy book.
