https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/475173.The_Night_Train_at_Deoli_and_Other_Stories
Of love, of innocence, of loneliness, of hills, of grandparents, of trees, bees and butterflies, of the rain, of the sun, of girls with big black eyes, of love-struck boys, of trains, of you and of me - That's what this set of stories is about. Ruskin Bond has woven magic into words that are definite to send the reader into a time warp and beg for the romanticism of the old days to make its appearance again. How I wish !

Here's what Mr. Bond is offering youAnother mixed bag of different flavoured shorties... ranging from a couple of pages to 20-25 pages each. Sweet, sour, childish, mature, scary, funny.... all tossed in a kaleidoscope!
"Kite-flying was then the sport of kings. There was time, then, to spend an idle hour with a gay, dancing strip of paper. Now everyone hurried, hurried in a heat of hope, and delicate things like kites and daydreams were trampled underfoot." I read this book on my trip back home in India this summer, and it was good to experience the mountain air vicariously while the temperatures around me soared.This is a collection of 30 stories, some of them a tad too short, and hence hardly made an impact
"Kite-flying was then the sport of kings.
There was time, then, to spend an idle hour with a gay, dancing strip of paper.
Now everyone hurried, hurried in a heat of hope, and delicate things like kites and daydreams were trampled underfoot."
Long time since I loved a short story collection so. Such homely cosy stories and loved the simple narration. Will surely read more of Bond.
Ruskin Bond is a lovely English writer. He describes indian life and our country's natural beauties, in great detail with wonderful intricacy. His Rusty series for children was authentic and very meaningful. His books make you feel like your close to him and he's whispering his thoughts, personal views to you. He paints beautiful pictures in your mind, making you literally live in the world of his words. A simply excellent writer, one of my favorites!!! :P: :D
There are a couple of them which were part of my English syllabus while I was studying in school.As Bond himself mentions in the preface of the book, his stories are not about espionage, mystery, suspense or murder.
i.e he will make you connect and feel the anguish, sorrow, pain and joy of mundane events which many of us do not even register in our minds.Admist the hustle and bustle of city life and its rat race, Ruskin Bond's stories are the perfect dose to make you think and ponder about the beauty hidden in the simplest of events.
Hats off to Mr. Ruskin Bond.
Ruskin Bond is one of those few writers who makes writing look ridiculously easy. Brilliant.
Ruskin Bond stories have been a delight to those who wish to savour a sip from the wine of bygone era!
His stories, mostly set in the small towns in the hills( Dehra,Shimla) serve as a retrospective of the past.
Ruskin Bond is most famously known for his very good psychology for school going kids and that is what probably reflected in his stories.
His stories serve as an oasis in the razzle dazzle of this fast moving world!
This was my first book by Ruskin Bond but my god, it feels like that I've been reading him since ages, The poetry in his writings, the way he makes those words Dance in his stories, you totally start to feel as though you are there in each of his Short Stories, invisible to the main characters, seeing them closely.
The Eyes Have It (This one is the most beautiful short story I've ever read and trust me you'd love it in the same way)2.
You can find the detailed review here http://www.haloofbooks.com/night-trai...This book includes 30 short stories; each story is beautiful in its own way.
You can find humorous, quirky, heart touching, horror as well as mature stories in this book.
I loved each and every story in this book.
The way author opens up the story and then embark to elaborate it is really impressive.
And yes the way author write about the mountains is truly mesmerizing to read.
Do not miss to read the foreword; he is the only writer whose foreword is as interesting as the stories.If you have not read this book yet, then you missing it you should definitely pick this up.

An excellent presentation of story ...................... enjoyed reading it..........
Night Train at Deoli is a nice collection of short stories of Ruskin Bond. These are the stories of the time author spent as a child and teenager in the foothills of Himalayas i.e Dehradoon and Mussorrie.All stories are short,very simple and yet touches your heart. No drama, no suspense, no revenge only real life experiences written in very beautiful simple words. I like the way he describes the nature and emotions of people.Magical writing style!Looking for simplicity, must read this book.
Ruskin Bond at his best... His simple narrative style, his description of the Himalayan countryside which has been his home most of his life, the interesting characters he comes across his stay there, from the girl on the platform at Deoli to the leopard which comes to trust him; the stories will touch a chord in your heart and you will find yourself experiencing the same emotions as the characters in the book and hoping that they were real(as they well might have been)
I really really loved this story , i found it quite sad though but it's just amazing how he kept waiting for her and dreaming about her , it's like i couldn't get enough from the story and wanted to read more !
I downloaded this as an ebook on Flipkart. Some really beautiful and poignant short stories make this book. Ruskin Bond is in his element here. He writes of birds, trees, mountains, rivers, trains....takes you back to when you were a child and saw the beauty in everything.
3.5*
And those who think this is simple should try it for themselves." — Ruskin Bond (The Best of Ruskin Bond) The truthfulness of above lines can be easily observed in Ruskin writings, he bring the words so cleverly that reader of his writing drowned himself on the plot of his stories.Before reading Ruskin, i had heard lot about his famous writings but i was never so convinced that i should go for those reads instantly, it was few days back while i thought to read something interesting and somehow i end up on a review of Ruskin book which was collection of Small stories and the books was "Night Train at Deoli : And other stories".
Ruskin finished some stories in very unexpected way that totally go oppose the reader thoughts.All stories were pleasant but the most interesting one were below -- Night Train at Deoli--Panther's Moon-- Sita and the River -- The boy who broke the bank
I can read him once, twice, thrice, and re-read again and yet, NEVER get bored. Magical writing with a style that touches your heart. For those who have lived in India, get ready for a journey of reminiscence. And for those who haven't, well, he will make you come to this country, which is filled with tiny stories in itself. A must read for every child, adult and senior.
I can't say I enjoyed all the stories on the book - but most of them were lovely. I'm quite fond of Bond's nostalgic writing style, though.
A simple soothing story,,,takes reader out of daily complexity of life,,make reader lonely at a quiet village
A collection of Thirty pleasant stories written in a style that reflects a romantic nostalgia of, particularly, India's past.
I say past, but many elements captured in these stories are, well, perpetual; especially, the romance associated with trains.
The usage of words like, 'samosas', 'maidan' and 'chappaties', which we've heard many time while growing up, only helps us to become more involved in the stories and I find it amazing how Mr. Bond does this in a fair and impartial way."Gentle Reader,I use	the old-fashioned term to address you, because I like it	and because I know	that only the more gentle kind of person is likely to care much for my	stories." - Ruskin Bond
Filled with 30 simple short stories, Ruskin Bond’s The Night Train at Deoli and Other Stories is a compilation of some of his best work. One can feel the stories as a part of their own lives, things happening or happened around them. Go for it if you want some peace and solace in this noisy world.
If not,let me convince you.The one word which immediately on reading this collection best described my feeling was "REFRESHING".It has a number of well portrayed sweet circumstances in which I met a lot of diverse yet relatable characters.
I loved the randomness of the stories and how it had a dash of everything (in writing style as well as in terms of genre)-autobiography,memoir,narrations,romance,horror and humour.I was very much surprised by them too.
This was the BEST part of his writing for me.
The next fav part of mine is that the way he describes Indian girls/women in his writings.
And Ruskin Bond’s The Night Train at Deoli and Other Stories did the trick for me.
It took me back to my school days, when each year I would eagerly look forward to read stories in my English textbook.
(Many of Ruskin Bond’s short stories were part of English syllabus in Indian schools like The Cherry Tree, The Boy Who Broke The Bank etc.)The review was originally posted on IndiaBookStore on 3rd November, 2013.Excerpt from my review- 'Heavy with subtle longing for golden years gone by, which were unadulterated with toxicity, Bond paints a beautiful picture in the mind of the readers through this book.
Through simplicity comes great beauty.There’s nothing too dramatic in any of the stories. They are simple and heart touching. It is all about human life – love, romance, loss, jealousy, pride, distress, and struggle. And there is an underlying message about humanity. The characters are so real. I feel I know some of them. Or maybe, I am one of them. What really surprised me is the absence of definite endings of some stories. Yet, they don’t feel unfinished. They just feel more... real. And even if not all stories are extraordinary, the book as a whole is immensely enjoyable.
I read The Night Train at Deoli two years back in my English textbook and fell in love with the story and the writing as well.
I am very much fond of train journeys and as a matter of fact I travel quite a lot by trains but never really took notice of the little things that happen around, be it during the journey or in the platform.
It just transports you to a calm and quiet magical world, so different from the one we're living in!The Night Train at Deoli will remain a favourite of all times but the one that touched my heart even deeper is Love is a Sad Song.If you like short stories, don't miss this gem.
A collection of touching stories by one of India's most prominent writers and self-proclaimed short-story lover.Through Ruskin's words you can almost imagine the silvery moonlight, dancing off the babbling brook and the sinewy tendrils in the forest of Uttarakhand.Usually short stories offer a limited medium to emotionally engage a reader, but this collection is above par at what it does!The stories are simple and tug at very simple, child like feelings in your heart without making you feel like a distraught adult...and I love the book for it.All in all a very quick and immersive read!
The book is like a warm hug that unclenches your fists, calms your pulsating nerves, relaxes your back and gives you a dash of momentary peace in stressful times.
It will remind you, just like it did me, of all the places, things and people that hover in some corner of our subconscious, without even realizing it.
More importantly, it will make you realize, that stories are all around us.
All we need to do is sit and observe.
It will compel you to take pen and paper (or laptop, notepad, whatever) and start creating your very own set of stories.
