https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/33333.Searching_for_God_Knows_What
I'm afraid because I know as soon as the word leaves my mouth I'll be associated with people who hate homosexuals and science classes, people who cast every vote as though abortion is the only issue, people who think God wants us to drop more bombs in Iraq because He only loves America.
I don't explain that it doesn't matter to me whether homosexuality is sinful or not because Jesus told us to love everybody anyway, or that I think God wants to save the whole world, not just United Statesians.Searching For God Knows What helped me understand how we (Christians and everyone else) got where we are today, searching for affirmation from the world.
First, this is the first Donald Miller book I've read.
(It seems like every other reviewer has read Blue Like Jazz, so I feel obligated to admit I haven't.) Secondly, I really expected to -- and wanted to -- like this book.
I felt like a plane circling an airport...
(Why yes, I did do that on purpose.)Secondly, and more importantly, I didn't feel like he really had anything new or original to say.
The narrative about the pecking order in middle school was especially interesting to me, because I am a middle school teacher and I unfortunately witness things like that all the time.
I was amazed, honestly, at how deftly this book laid out so much of the thinking God has been instilling in my own life this year...in Miller's understanding (and I agree), everything goes back to a time before the fall, when man was still living in peaceful, right relationships with God, with his fellow man, and with his environment.
It really felt like a sort of culmination of this past year for me, not only as it relates to my understanding of my faith but also as it relates to the books I've read that have been instrumental in what God has been doing in my heart and the common thread of being set in Portland that has connected so many of them.
Unfortunately, that love hasn't permeated his heart for how he writes about "the religious right" and FOX news and various strawman conservative views that he self-righteously bashes and knocks down.
he doesn't seem to know a lot about conservative philosophy) while claiming that his views are purely Scriptural.
Not that conservatives do everything right, of course, but Miller seems to have no idea, for example, on what grounds anyone could claim that the United States is the greatest nation -- he thinks it's just (ignorant, naive) patriotism.
To claim moral equivalency of various political (and other) views is not just ignorant but dangerous too.
Lately I've found trying to argue for/against a God with my atheists friends to be pretty challenging.
After reading this one, I get the feeling that one of the big reasons why it's hard to argue propositionally for a God is because it's a relationship.
nothing changes) are obsessed with checklists and rules and spelling everything out.Isn't love about a sort of loose interplay on each other's behalf?
Doing things?There are no 10 ways to make your man go wild.
Those cover everything overstated twelve different ways in ever moral code ever.
Not that those little rules are bad...
"It seems nearly heresy to explain the gospel of Jesus, this message an infinitely complex God has delivered to an infinitely complex humanity, in bullet points." Yet, as Miller explains with insight and humor, is all too common in today's society.
People of all beliefs and agendas try to use God and Jesus to fight for their point of view and against all others, polarizing the world.
A true relationship with God is just that, a relationship, not a list of morality points or a list of things that make one set of people "better" than another; and relationships are complex things.
The main premise, repeated ad nauseum, in Donald Miller’s Searching For God Knows What is that the Bible is relational – that is, not to be broken down into cheap bullet points and formulas.
Ultimately, Searching For God Knows What is my least favorite of Donald Miller’s books.
That said, he does a decent job of fleshing out a number of Biblical characters and illustrating the timeless truth that the Bible is primarily a story about man’s relationship with God. In particular, I credit Miller’s book with getting me to reconsider, entirely, the Book of Genesis.
I have come to believe the sooner we find this truth beautiful, the sooner we will fall in love with the God who keeps shaking things up…I began to slowly realize that the God of the Bible, not the God of formulas and bullet points that some have turned the Bible into, but the God of the actual Bible, the old one before we learned to read it like a self-help book, had a great deal to say to me.You go walking along, thinking people are talking a language and exchanging ideas, but the whole time there is this deeper language people are really talking, and that language has nothing to do with ethics, fashion, or politics….what it really has to do with is feeling important and valuable…..
His thoughtfulness and honesty are what made Blue Like Jazz good, and this one's just as strong in regard to both those qualities.The thing that bothers me when I read Donald Miller, is that he seems to assume non-followers of Jesus can gain more knowledge of him by revelation than they probably can in reality.
What Miller has done is to distill his fundamentalist theological background down to the sweetest and truest things about following Christ.
Go to any Christian bookstore, and you'll find that quality books fitting this description were all written before 1970 (if you exclude Donald Miller and Phil Yancey).
Donald Miller has once again written a book that brings you into a personal understanding of who Jesus is and the deep importance of loving everyone as He loves them.
I personally resonated with his description of "life boat" politics and how Jesus never wanted us to be in the lifeboat.
Miller has a way of deeply expressing himself while making you feel as if you are just enjoying the intimacy of someone's thoughts.
You will laugh at his quirky illustrations and cry at his description of Jesus through the eyes of the New Testament.
superstar and here's my new book to prove it." Poor writing -- not that most evangelicals would notice -- yet again, but I suppose in retrospect, it served a purpose in my life (though now, I forget what it was).Truthfully, I might just feel that this is when Donald Miller chose to permanently stifle himself by allowing some evangelical publisher to brand him as the "cool" christian author who "pushes the boundaries" by talking about microbrew and the Northwest's political climate, instead of just allowing himself to be an author who writes about spirituality from his own experience.
From here on you would only see Mr. Miller in elements of the subculture speaking at churches, private colleges, or christian conferences.
He has a long section about Jesus that I remember liking.
His lifeboat theory is what i remember most from this book.
Basically that people feel more accepted when they are leaving someone else out.
It makes you feel extra smug when there is some outcast you can concretely point to.
Erik Erikson's theories of identity are in line with this.
Without a group of people to point at and say "I am not like them" it is harder to know who you are.
Racism is like an attempt at sureing up your identity gone awry.
Loved it. Don's honest and transparent questions about faith and love and life and existence are refreshing because every Christian has them, even the most hard-nosed devout theologian. Don is a great writer, and even when I don't agree with him (which is less often in this book than in BLJ) I feel like if we met we would talk about these things respectfully and lovingly. That's what I love about his books. It feels a lot like having a really profound conversation with a good friend.
Donald Miller represents the worst aspects of religion. His stories are entertaining until he begins to preach about Jesus, then this book turns into a lesson in intolerance and looking down on others. The worst part is there's an entire chapter on not judging others, which Miller effectively undoes through his comments and attitudes towards other religions.
I was intrigued by the title and bought it the next time I was in a store.
I have sat on it since then and decided, God's timing and all, that it would be my first book of 2018.I was blown away.
I would argue that this book would be one of the best for a new believer or someone doubting their faith.
Miller does his best to scrape through 2,000 years of muck that has gathered around the outside of the Christian faith to reveal what is at the center: a living, breathing man who wants to have a relationship with living, breathing people.
It was as if He didn't believe the economy we live within had validity."It's a refreshing thought to give up on the lifeboat and look to Jesus, but what makes this book poignant is that Donald Miller hasn't yet taken that leap.
He spent a huge chunk of time arguing against those angry people who pretty much only exist on the internet (as far as I know) and probably would never pick up this book in the first place.But then there is the last chapter...oh, I'm in love with the last chapter.
Near the end of the book he says "When Jesus gets inside somebody, the first thing that starts happening is the person starts loving people regardless of their race, their socio-economic status, or their looks." This is in comparison to people who are trying to follow a formula, which, Miller says, is more about redeeming your place in the world than about being redeemed by the grace of God. All good.I still think he's a little over-focused on the afterlife (though he doesn't say so explicitly), and it's clear that he thinks that if you don't decide to have a relationship with Christ, then you're pretty much doomed.
However, there were a lot of amazing moments in this book, and it helped change the way I think about the Gospel and my relationship with Jesus.
It really explains all of our fallen behavior, how even once we become "religious," we can still be so sinful because it can so easily become about how good we look to others rather than about the relationship we now have with the Most High.This book is definitely worth a read, and it might just change the way you think about the root causes of sin and what redemption really means.
It may not be for everyone, but I find it beautiful in its searching simplicity and humility.A lot of what he talks about in this book has resonated deeply within me, and is related a lot to some of the things I’ve been writing on this blog.
His love for people and knowledge of his own imperfection are both so real.
Even though this book is the same thing people have been writing about for thousands of years, none of it feels scripted, cliched or tired — it’s fresh and new and very relevant.
It would be quite beautiful, really.”Read my full review here: http://letseatgrandpa.com/2011/08/19/...
Truth, I did enjoy some parts of it, and even strongly considered underlining some passages before remembering that I was borrowing the book from my brother and he might not appreciate that, then I figured maybe I should just write down the quotes I liked, but that would've required a lot of work at the time (getting up, finding paper, a pen, etc., then actually writing it all out..) and it just didn't seem all that important anymore.
This book was mostly Donald Miller trying to preach, and, unfortunately, I don't think preaching is his strong point.
Donald Miller is not content to follow the masses in regards to the Christian faith.
Searching for God Knows What conveys the importance of this life-changing relationship while trying to expose what Christianity isn’t.When I read Miller’s Blue Like Jazz, I devoured each page, excited to unexpectedly read thoughts so similar to mine.
Searching for God Knows What did not disappoint me, as I found it equally interesting to read and just as difficult to put down.
I particularly liked this book because the author does not hold back on his willingness to go out on a limb then wrap it up in an easily comprehensible package that makes not good but great sense!
I tripped out on the fact that he writes in a manner that my mind frequently operates in, different and bold about it.
At times I was at the verge of skepticism, thinking that he may be a bit "out there", then Mr Miller would drive his point home beautifully.
The author cuts no one any slack including himself while driving home the fact that true Christianity is relational.
This book was very insightful.
Very Miller-y feel to it.
However, did dip in to interpreting the scriptures which is not my personal fav.
I could have done with out a lot of this book.
There were quite a few things I did love though.
We are hardly providing an alternative world-view.
He will redeem you to the world." (In MY version: pp 211, Chapter 13).Re: how Christians dissect God and make Him what we want Him to be: "...it makes me wonder if God created us in His image or if we created Him into ours." pp20, Chapter 2

Unfortunately, Donald Miller is the first writer I've run across who writes exactly the way I would write if I were parodying him.The first chapter was interesting enough, but by the second chapter he was beginning paragraphs with the phrase "You know..." My reaction to that?
"Don't call me buddy, friend." The cover had an endorsement from The Oregonian comparing Miller to Annie LaMott.
Annie LaMott is beautiful.
This book read like a 9th grade essay.I never read Blue Like Jazz, but considering how influential it has been, I hope it was better written.I also hope people won't mind that I dismiss this book because of the bad writing.
Bad writing is another way of saying bad thinking.
This is not Miller's best work. What was most interesting to me about this work is that he points out how much time we spend judging other people. Also, he makes the observation that many Christians have narrowed Christianity down to accepting propositions of theology instead of accepting a relationship. I will probably continue to ponder those two ideas, but the rest of the book, meh. Romeo and Juliet -- rolling my eyes. I recommend Blue Like Jazz or What I Learned While Editing My Life as far superior.
Christianity is more than just trying to wage a morality war. This may sound sentimental and like I'm wishing for sunshine and bunnies, but it's true. Living life as a follower of Jesus is not about waging war on people who think differently than us, it's about loving the unloved like Jesus did. Jesus hung out with prostitutes and tax collectors and loved them all. Each and every one of them! If we won't do that as followers of Christ, then are we really followers of Christ?This book spoke to my heart. Need I say more?
Once again, what I really want to say is 4.5 stars. I loved Miller's Blue Like Jazz and was really excited to grab this one on sale. While some of what Miller talks about in this book is less than original, I loved his ideas about Jesus and politics. It was refreshing to hear someone speak so candidly about the misuse of the Lord's name in politics. A great read for anyone looking for some down to earth Christian living advice.
Fantastic read. It gave me a lot of validity to my "creative" approach to Jesus, in that our relationship to Jesus is exactly that, a relationship and not a series of steps to go through. It really underscores our human need for _story_ in a deep way. This past few months I have come to learn my own story better, and I see a great need for more people to understand their own story as well as God's story.
I would suggest this book to any of my Christian friends for the sheer comical genius of the author Donald Miller. Not only does he somehow hit a home run with this whimsical humor, but it's almost like talking to my friend Christopher, or Mark while reading it. With his vivid imagination, and the scenario's he makes from his imagination, they had me laughing out loud while reading it. And at the whole time, still getting his opinions of God out there as cement as his humor.
