https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/16263.Significant_Others
It's this fifth one that (finally) falters...I read the first four Tales of the City books last year, and just to inject this year with that same sense of plot/character preposterousness, I get to this one, the one that actually has two characters seriously contend with the AIDS epidemic.
M. Forster is abused so much by the always magnificent Maupin.
It is, again, no surprise that all the plot unravels, not in the city in which it is based, glorious San Fran, but ALWAYS elsewhere (here, twin camps in the woods: basically city-gone-rural).
Plus, what is up with everyone having children and just never taking care of them?
Maupin.
Even though the experience is unmistakeably American, it still resonates with the Gay and gender politics of the 1980s in the UK.I particularly remember one year when we were going to London from Manchester, to attend the London Gay Pride and were waiting for the specially contracted double-decker buses.
A group of us, young Gay men and lesbians, were all laughing and joking together, having found that we had at least one friend in common, and the festival atmosphere was very much evident, even at 6.30 in the morning.
All the lesbians climbed aboard the "women only" bus.
If that was the case, why wasn't there a "men only" bus?I'm not digressing here; this idea of seperatist politics as lunacy runs throughout this book.
I loved this one and thought Maupin did a great job with the new character of "the world's most beautiful fat woman" - because introducing a character into the mix of well-established characters is a tricky proposition, but she was a welcome addition.
From BBC Radio 4:More from the Tales of the City series by Armistead Maupin. Here Lin Coghlan dramatises stories from the novels Significant Others and Sure of You . Back in Barbary Lane, Mrs Madrigal is still attending her sensamilla plants .. Michael has found love again with his new boyfriend Thack. Brian and Mary Anne have gone to higher ground. living in a house which looms over Barbary Lane on The Summit .Produced by Charlotte RichesDirected in Salford by Susan Roberts.
I thought I'd review these in preparation for the Anna Madrigal book coming out in January 2014. I honestly didn't expect to be catapulted head over heels back to Barbary Lane, back to the late 80s. Some of my intense reaction to this story/timeline must be attributed to my recent reading of the unutterably brilliant Two Boys Kissing, but much of it is down to Maupin's lovely writing. The narration is great, too.
When in search of a lighter read, Armistead Maupin never fails, or at least he hasn't up to now.Not that there aren't serious events taking place in the fifth Tales of the City book.
Maupin dispatches his characters to the Russian River area of San Francisco.
At the same time Michael and Brian get mixed up in a male bonding camp nearby, as Brian wrestles with a personal crisis.Significant Others may not reach the heights of the early books, but there is still much to enjoy.
Not enough Anna Madrigal perhaps, but new character Wren Douglas - a plus-size model - is a treat.
I was reminded of Armistead Maupin's Tales of the City characters during a conversation with a friend so when I walked into my favorite & only remaining bookstore that features second hand books and is shutting its doors soon I looked for some of his titles.
This one falls somewhere in the middle of the novels that continue the Tales of the City columns about life on Barbary Lane in San Francisco of the late 70's.
It was fun to revisit these characters and Maupin is great with details of city living.
Significant Others - Armistead Maupin.Like usual Maupin left me laughing and reading this book incredibly quickly.
It was great to have DeDe as a more prominent character as she has always been in the background (apart from Further Tales, but that was a very specific story).
I also thought that AIDS was handled really well.
I didn't particularly like the way Mary Ann's character had developed, she was getting very sweept up in the 80's and becoming a snob but at the end of the book i thought all that was changing and she would become loveable again.
First off, I was hesitant to read this installment due to the blurb on the back, which made it sound just dreadful about a women-only, men-only clash in the Redwoods.
But it was NOTHING like the blurb, it was Barbary goes up-river, with the characters we know and love going to the wilderness.
My one major grip, Wren, the worlds most beautiful fat women.
Now this is not about her character, which I liked and all, its a general observation that I've noticed before and which this book upheld.
Why are only big boobed fat women attractive?
Small boobs, overweight, big boobed, goddess?
After all those reviews about how Babycakes was the weakest book of the series, I'm kind of wishing I had stopped at Further Tales of the City.
The whole charm of the series was backdrop - San Francisco in the swinging 70s, and the characters used to embody this time wholeheartedly.
Now, everyone is kind of dreary in the 80s, the relationships are strained, there aren't the clever twists and mysteries that were in the first 4 (counting Babycakes), and to be truthful, it's no longer fun.
I'm giving it 3 stars only because I'm a wimp at rating things, and also because I'm still giving the series a chance.
This was a bit better because we didnt have to deal with any of MaryAnn's crazy b.s. I can't believe how much she's sold out, though. And her negative attitude towards Barbary Lane and Mrs. Madrigal pisses me off. I enjoyed the new chaecters and hope at least one of them makes a return appearance. I don't care enough about DeDe and D'or's to really have an opinion about their messed up situation. I'm glad DeDe seems to be a good mom though.I'm still not sold but I do still really like Michael and Brian has grown on me too.
A nice, quick read. There isn't much to say, really; this is book five in the Tales of the City series, so you've got to be pretty invested in these characters to make it this far. I enjoyed that this one was set in 1987, a year in which I was both alive and slightly more cognizant of culture and the world, so I was able to understand some of the political and pop culture references.
I really loved this entire series. I have read all 8 books and want to go back and read them again. The only "fault" I can complain about is too much life detail is skipped in between books. I think he could have brought even more depth into the main characters. Now I can't wait to actually go to San Francisco!
Still love Mouse to pieces, and I liked the redwoods setting for the three parallel stories. I hate what Maupin has done with Mary Ann, and there was almost no Mrs. Madrigal in this one.Also: now that Frannie Halcyon has been dubbed "Gangie" by her grandchildren, I can only picture her as Jessica Walter, which is really perfect.
I have now read all of the Tales of the City series. It has taken me 13 years, and I've read them completely out of order. Some day, I will read them all in order, and make much more sense of them. Of course, they stand alone well enough to be engaging. In capturing the essence of the time and place, they come close to stereotyping, yet manage to stay on the light, humorous side.
A good installment in the series. Most of the story takes place in the Russian River Valley with two large events being described, one a feminist/lesbian music festival and the other the annual get together of the Bohemian Club (of SF). As the series progresses the story line revolves around a smaller group of people.
I'm on a roll with this series right now. Focus is more and more on Michael Tolliver as AIDS is becoming a serious issue and causes pain and anxiety among the characters. There are hints (more than that, actually) of unresolved conflicts between some of the main characters, and I'm looking forward to see how they play out in the next volume.
I read this one out of order, kinda wish I hadn't, but no big deal. Same as before, love the characters, love the way Maupin paints the City. Totally books I keep on my bookshelf. Now I need to watch the miniseries again!
I re-read this series about every 2 years or so. Never ceases to make me laugh or cry. I love all these characters.
Okay so I know that Wren plays into the stereotype of a hypersexual fat woman but I bloody loved her anyway.
[SOPHIE, SPOILER ALERT.] The AIDS crisis is in full swing now, Michael is positive, Jon died in one of the books I didn't read, Mary Ann is oddly a talk show host and married to Brian who is still sleeping around although says he's happy with her.
Also the relationship between Michael and Brian was so sweet.
A true friendship romance.
And it's interesting that his sweet friendship with Mary Ann had really changed over the long gap (of books I didn't read.) She's a television personality now and they don't even live at Barbary Lane anymore.
Good book.
This book is a bit lighter in overall tone than the previous one, even as the specter of AIDS looms even larger over the cast of characters.
(And it was interesting to see that the relatively banal secrets of the Bohemian Grove were, in fact, available to read in print decades before writers like Jon Ronson wrote about them; as usual Maupin was years ahead of his time.) All the details of a book written in the 80's by a keen observer were both familiar to me and strangely like an alien country, with perhaps the most striking difference being someone leaving the house at 5:30 to catch a 6:15 flight.
The series gets increasingly serious as HIV/AIDS casts a growing pall over San Francisco and the author's own life.
There are still hijinks in this story, however.
I found the whole Womyn Wood storyline especially amusing, having attended the Michigan Womyn's Music Festival myself; there absolutely are caricatures and exaggerations, but it's also fairly accurate and respectful as well.
In fact, one of the things I liked best in this book is the overarching theme of camaraderie between people of the same gender and/or sexual orientation, and the examination of its value and the unequal treatment these groups receive from society at large.
That's something the newspaper serials didn't have in such explicit detail.
At least they're brief.)

I didn't care for any of the new characters who, unfortunately, occupy far too many pages of this installment. Michael Tolliver has become the heart and soul of the series and I am enjoying the development of his character. But I do wonder why the author lost interest in Mona, then Mrs. Madrigal, and now actively dislikes Mary Ann.
Comical intertwined stories. I lost my focus several times during this read but found that the author laced the story with some interesting moments that kept me reading until the end. I was dissatisfied with the ending but I expect that I will probably read the next book which is the sixth book in this series. The first two are the best.
Entertaining because it takes place near us on the Russian River - Bohemian Grove, Monte Rio and Cazadero. The reader pronounced cazadero with a different first "a" sound which caused a large discussion on pronunciation (I have had a cazadero mailing address for 14 years and never knew this was an issue). Always good to find out what the characters are up to.
This latest edition in the Tales series transports us to San Francisco in the 1980s. Our regular characters return and are confronted with the AIDS crisis plaguing the world. Poignant, funny, sad and inspiring - Maupin continues to make our journey to Barbary Lane a joy.
I can see why some said it starts to falter here. I still loved it. On to #6!
