https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/590158.The_Silver_Trumpet
As Owen Barfield's first published book and only work of fiction, THE SILVER TRUMPET is a bit difficult to evaluate.
The opening chapter introduces us to newborn twin princesses, a nobleman called the 'Lord High Teller of the Other from Which', an elderly woman who may or may not be a witch and may or may not be benign, a newly arrived prince from a neighboring kingdom which IS named, and the titular Silver Trumpet with remarkable power that becomes evident over time but which is never accounted for.
universal final defeat.' Not all the losses, injustices, and hurts in THE SILVER TRUMPET are erased in the end; yet they do find resolution and healing.
S. Lewis's letter to Owen Barfield on June 28, 1936 (in Vol. 2 of Collected Letters): "I lent The Silver Trumpet [originally published in 1925] to Tolkien and hear that it is the greatest success among his children that they have ever known.
'They liked the sad parts', said Tolkien, 'because they were sad and the puzzling parts because they were puzzling, as children always do.' The youngest boy liked Gamboy because 'she was clever and the bad people in books usually aren't.' The tags of the Podger have become so popular as to be almost a nuisance in the house.
This is my most absolutely favorite book of all time. I've been reading and re-reading this book since I was about 6, and learn something new every time. More than a fairy tale or love story, it's just a beautifully written story about the importance of being a good and sincere person.
Has a slow start but gets better as the story unwinds. I liked it by the time I finished it and look forward to seeing if it grows in my imagination the way the short works of Tolkien have done.
Such objects (a fabled sword, a ring of power, a cloak of invisibility) are defined ultimately by their utility.
I can see why authors prefer this sort of magic - there is a bias in fiction towards those aspects of reality that yield plot devices, and these sorts of magical items make fine objects for quests and (because they can also be used by the enemy) ensure plot-tension.
He conceives of a magic item, a trumpet, that awakes people to their better selves.
Still, I prefer this to the vice-versa - the masterful execution of narratives of no particular value.
I was excited to finally get my hands on a copy of this. While I really enjoyed it I found myself wishing that Barfield had tried his hand at the genre of fairy tale again, somewhat later in his career. With that said, this is a lovely book which genuinely adds to the genre without violating it at all. I would definitely recommend it for all lovers of fairy tale.
(If you want a print copy, the Eerdmans second edition illustrations look the prettiest by far.)Having read a crapload of Inklings work including the lesser-known Charles Williams and Barfield himself--including History in English Words and Poetic Diction, I wanted to get this early Barfield work under my belt as well.
Perhaps Barfield's later novel This Ever Diverse Pair would be a fairer and more fruitful comparison.Something critically useful might be said about the silver trumpet as a metaphor for the kind of poiesis he describes in Poetic Diction, but in my opinion the execution is not striking enough to rise above the million examples you could find by pulling any children's book off the shelf at random.Ultimately, this is a run of the mill fairy tale for kids around age six.
This was a fine read-aloud with the kids, but like Owen Barfield's later philosophy, it's entirely quirkly.
The story hints at depth but I don't think there's that much there.
There's also a few shocking deaths partway through the story, which might disturb some children, but I thought it added a bit of heft to the feeling, and some of it is made right in the end.
I'm not sure what to think of this, but it surprised me and kept me interested in a unique way -- much like Barfield's philosophy.

One of my kids favorite stories... somewhere in between a picture book and a chapter book in length. Rootity tootity toot.I probably read this out loud 15 times..........
I think this is my 3rd or 4th time to read this.
a great story in the tradition of the master fairy tales
