https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/518445.Further_Chronicles_of_Avonlea
Although I adore Lucy Maud Montgomery and consider her a perennial favourite, this collection of short stories has never managed to achieve this exalted status for me.
However, the fact remains that L.
But furthermore, the last selection of Further Chronicles from Avonlea, Tannis of the Flats is the ONLY piece of L.M. Montgomery's fiction that I truly despise with every fibre of my being, a racist stereotyping hate-mongering diatribe against both Native Canadians and the Métis I have actually only managed to read once in its entirity (and which I always deliberately skip when I do my rereads).
Another wonderful collection of charming Avonlea short stories, ranging from the humorous to melodramatic, and every bit as enticing and delightful as the first book, Chronicles of Avonlea. I was going to give it a full 5, but the last few stories weren’t quite so good as the rest, and I was a teeny tiny bit disappointed. Nevertheless I had a magical time reading this book, as is always the case when reading anything written by Montgomery.  Aunt Cynthia’s Persian Cat  (4 stars): This one was the
(4 stars): This one was the funniest of the lot, definitely aimed as a fun little comedy where two women must watch their aunt’s detestable cat, only to find it disappearing under their very noses.
(5 stars): I absolutely loved this beautiful story of a young woman determined to have her long-lost father attend her wedding day.
(2.5 stars): I don’t remember much of this one as I read it late at night and kept falling asleep over it (not a very good sign), but I remember a general feeling of being bored and irritated at the same time, although the story was not that bad.
3.5 stars.The Return of HesterBefore dying, the eldest sister makes her sibling promise never to marry the man she loves because...reasons.
2 stars.The Son of His Mother A mother ADORES her son to the point where she makes him promise not to marry his love, which is obviously CREEPY AF and NOT A HEALTHY MOTHER-SON RELATIONSHIP.
What I DO have a problem with is the fact that he basically RAISED her and she refers to him as "Father Robert" at one point AND SOMEHOW WE'RE STILL SUPPOSED TO BELIEVE THAT THIS IS ROMANTIC LOVE????
M. Montgomery, is a collection of short stories - some romances, some not - all set in the fictional town of Avonlea in Prince Edward Island, Canada.
Deeply adorable. I suppose there's a certain sameness to the various Avonlea shorts, but as it's a sameness I find comforting and comfortable, I can't bring myself to mind. There's something wonderfully domestic about these stories, in their small scale, in the attention they pay to women's lives and women's spaces, and I'm always delighted by how deftly Montgomery handles the characters. (We don't talk about the horrifically racist last story in the collection. We note that it is a product of its time and we try to forget its inclusion.)
I didn't come up with too many expectations for these stories, since I read other reviews that said they were not as good as the first  Chronicles.
So, to my surprise, they were really quite good.
I liked  Her Father's Daughter and  The Son of Her Mother best of all, but  The Brother Who Failed,  The Little Brown Book of Miss Emily and  The Education of Betty were very good too.
The rest of them were,ah,well,Ok, I guess, but the last three stories were rather bad, and of course I am very sad to see the racism in Tannis of the Flats, but, being a woman of her time, L.M. Montgomery wasn't spared *sigh*.
While this had more variety than Chronicles of Avonlea, about half the stories were hit and miss and the other half were average. my favourites of the Avonlea short stories definitely come from this volume, but so do my least favourites.
Below is an overview of my brief thoughts on each story after reading them, but to conclude I did thoroughly enjoy Aunt Cynthia's Persian Cat, The Materializing of Cecil, The Son of His Mother and The Education of Betty.
Recommended if you're a serious LMM fan and enjoy short stories, but don't expect the same quality as in the first Chronicles.
The Little Brown Book of Miss Emily - This was a bit different from the other stories in the collection, about two girls reading a diary of an elderly woman who had recently died and finally understanding her life.
Auguste married a woman whose mother was a French half-breed and whose father was a pure-bred Highland Scotchman.
The result of this atrocious mixture was its justification--Tannis of the Flats--who looked as if all the blood of all the Howards might be running in her veins."The rest of the story is all about how no matter what education and training Tannis received, she was still a "breed", still savage beneath her veneer of civilization.
In Tannis of the Flats, with her ancestry and tradition, it was lofty self-sacrifice." The story is so, so, so racist.
The worst things about this book, in ascending order of offensiveness:1.
There is a story told by Anne, in first person.
There is a story where a dude takes over the education of his dead best friend's daughter, age 10, and then falls in love with her and marries her when she's 18.3.
The last story, "Tannis of the Flats," is so racist toward People of the First Nations (and, more specifically, people whose ancestry is partially First Nations and partially European) that it was almost unbelievable, like a parody of outdated and offensive beliefs about traits inherent to different ethnic groups.
Ania do Avonlea już nie wróci. My też powoli żegnamy się z tą piękną okolicą poznając kolejne przygody jej mieszkańców, w których Ania Shirley znowu występuje w tle, dodana jakby nieco na siłę. Wbrew pozorom nie wszystko kręci się wokół miłości. Pożegnanie z Avonlea nie jest przez to specjalnie łzawe, ale może to i dobrze, bo trudno byłoby do tych książek co jakiś czas wracać.
Some stories were a bit too racist even for that time, but in general, most of the stories transported me to a different world, it was like a picnic in the countryside. We all sometimes need that.
Like the first volume, this is a collection of short stories set in Avonlea and the surrounding area.
Readers of the Anne of Green Gables series will notice many familiar names and places.
I have to say that I really preferred the first volume over this one.
M. Montgomery, and the racism in the last story was very disappointing, although not unusual in her time unfortunately.
I read that these were stories that were originally rejected for the first volume and were subsequently published without Ms. Montgomery's permission.
Probably worth reading for L.
M. Montgomery fans, but not essential.
Chronicles of Avonlea is one of my favorite books so I was excited to read this one.
On the whole there were better stories in the first book, but I liked these too.
I enjoyed them all except for "The Return of Hester" which basically had a ghost in it.
I didn't like that.
"In Her Selfless Mood" was just not my type of story, and then the last one "Tannis of the Flats" I found disturbing.
Because of those I took off a star, but the rest of the stories I liked very much.
Her beautiful writing translates so well to the format, and the narrators are usually easy to listen to.
I DID listen on 1.25x speed, because the reader was rather slow.
Such sweet stories, but I think my favorites are "Her Father's Daughter", and "The Dream Child".
The former is such a sweet telling of really how important parents are to their children, and how love will cause people to do the most stubborn things.
I loved it.
"The Dream Child" began as a hauntingly, tragically beautiful tale, that I feel sure would have sent a "thrill" up the spine of a young Anne Shirley.
3.5/5Overall a decent collection of stories, some very charming but with a weaker last half. My favourite story has to be "The Brother Who Failed", beautiful and heart warming. "The materialising of Cecil" and "The education of Betty" came second in favourites. "In her selfless mood" was the most bloody depressing."The son of his mother" was just ridiculous and creepy. "Tannis of the Flats", the last story was just unreadable, the constant racist bile towards Native Canadians -_- sickening to read. Overall, barring the last few, the collection is a comforting read.
A breezy read, which I enjoyed far more than the previous Chronicles edition. The stories are more varied, there are less old maids getting married, and Montgomery's descriptives are at their finest. The last story, Tannis of the Flats, veers away from Avonlea life to the West and gives us a very real insight into the attitudes of people of the time towards the natives. I found it very interesting that Montgomery casually uses startling racial slurs- "half breed"-, and stereotypes in the same breath as a description of the wild moors; telling of the times.
I love LMM so, so, so much.
Sweet, sad and funny stories. Some were really good, but "Tannis of the Flats" was horrible and racist and "In her selfless Mood" wasn't satisfying at all.
She gets to keep the kid (an orphan set adrift by his asshole guardian to starve or drown), but she honestly doesn't seem much more stable at the end of the story, even if she has stopped believing that her dead son is calling for her.
4 stars.7) The Return of Hester: Once again, a tyrannical sister uses her deathbed to coerce her surviving sib into promising never to marry the man she loves.
2.5 stars.10) The Son of His Mother: Thyra Carewe, a thoroughly unpleasant woman, is obsessed with her son, Chester.
Truly, the Anne books and Emily of New Moon are some of my favorite books, and I adored L.M. Montgomery because of them.
I could excuse all the other stories in the book, even if I found them trite and overly dramatic, and really overplaying the unhealthy parent/child relationships.
I hated the story “The Education of Betty”, in which a grown man falls in love with the young woman he helped raise because ugh.
But then came the last story in the book - “Tannis of the Flats”, a horribly racist, offensive piece of garbage.
Obviously, L.M. Montgomery wasn’t one of them.
As always L.M. Montgomery never disappoints! l enjoyed the short stories from this book. Each chronicle had a life lesson, and most of the themes include karma and justice. L.M. Montgomery does an excellent job at writing "feel good" stories. This book, as well as all of her books, still remain classics for me and are enjoyable at any age!
I think I'm trying to find a collection of short stories that I love as much as David Sedaris' work.
But, I don't think that I'll ever love any anthology of short stories like I will a David Sedaris book so I need to stop trying.With all that said, I read Chronicles of Avonlea because it came as part of the Anne of Green Gables series I purchased for Nook, and because I just wasn't ready to leave the Avonlea world yet.
A delightful montage of shorts from the same Canadian author who brought us Anne of Green Gables.To recognize a few of my new favorites...The Materializing of CecilOn her birthday, Miss Charlotte, now 40, decides to make a change in her life.
And then -- the lie comes to life.The Dream-ChildHow a grieving woman who lost her infant son replaces him with a strange little boy that appears out of the ocean one day.
Young Anne Shirley's imagination captivates the reader with the precious bundle that old Miss Emily leaves behind upon her death...The Son of His MotherThyra Carewe intends to always keep her son's love, and strictly believes no other woman will ever enter his life to direct his thoughts away -- except one day "she" appears.
The ones I like best are Jane's Baby, The Brother Who Failed, The Return of Hester, The Little Brown Book of Miss Emily, and The Education of Betty.
I like them to really mean something and am turned off by 'flirtations.'Overall, I don't love this collection, but I have to say that the range of human emotions, desires, faults, virtues that LMM depicts is incredibly varied.
She doesn't seem to miss a single one in her work.All the gushing on the back cover is amusing-'wonderful adventures...warm and exciting, delightful tales to cherish, a book you'll never want to end.'
I read these stories late into the night, slept, and then finished them early this morning before work.
There was a fiery red spot out at sea, where the sun had set, and, above it, over a chill, clear, saffron sky, were reefs of purple-black clouds.
Beyond it, the sea was dark and brooding.
It was an evening to make most people shiver and forebode an early winter; but Thyra loved it, as she loved all stern, harshly beautiful things.
She would not light a lamp because it would blot out the savage grandeur of sea and sky.
The collection of short stories was business as usual, until the very end.
The last story was completely shocking and 100% out of the usual style of Montgomery.
Aside from taking place far away in the “wild” west, it was barbaric in its racism and horrible stereotyping, bigotry, and disturbing racial slurs.
Very surprising from the author of “sweetness and light”, but a reality hinted at beneath the Victorian sentiments that are a part of the authors point of view.
This story is inflammatory and degrading and I discourage its reading, as sensitive readers will be upset, and keen ones will find that it ruins the more delicate fare from a much-loved author.
I found this collection of stories very much the same as her past work and not as involving.
They all seemed to be versions of things I had read before.
I can't remember what I thought when I first encountered them as a child.One thing that did stick out is the attitudes of the time, particularly to other nationalities e.g. the French and Syrians are treated in a condescending and dismissive way.
This hit me most strongly in the last story when Montgomery goes on at length about "Indians" and "Breeds".
She's reflecting the attitudes of her time but it is still jarring.
This is my first read of this book as an adult and it is not a good or particularly enjoyable collection of stories.
The final story is so horribly racist I couldn't finish it.
There had been earlier indications of racism in other Montgomery books (Rainbow Valley had one that disappointed me in the author) but I laid it down to the times.
Tannis of the Flats managed to surpass that entirely.
If one wanted a work of fiction that indicated how white Canadians of the time felt about the First Nations people, that one story would indicate it very clearly.
This is a rather nice collection of short stories, if you're already a L.M. Montgomery fan, you will enjoy this. I know I did, BUT be aware of racist overtones (Tannis of the Flats) as well as some slightly sexist ones. These stories need to be read/understood within context, so should not be given to young ones to read. Definitely more of a Young Adults book than a children's one, but some of the stories are enjoyable.
