https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/392307.The_Unstrung_Harp
Mr. Clavius Frederick Earbrass, writer, goes to a literary party.”The talk deals with disappointing sales, inadequate publicity, worse than inadequate royalties, idiotic or criminal reviews, others’ declining talent, and the unspeakable horror of the literary life.” This party of dissatisfied writers may be like holding a mirror up to his own face, but it is still a diversion away from the manuscript which hangs around his neck like a soiled napkin. ”Not only is it repulsive to the eye and hand,
Mr. Clavius Frederick Earbrass, writer, goes to a literary party.”The talk deals with disappointing sales, inadequate publicity, worse than inadequate royalties, idiotic or criminal reviews, others’ declining talent, and the unspeakable horror of the literary life.”
This party of dissatisfied writers may be like holding a mirror up to his own face, but it is still a diversion away from the manuscript which hangs around his neck like a soiled napkin.
If you are a writer, it will be impossible for you not to identify with the anxieties, insecurities, and frustrations of Clavius Frederick Earbrass.
The more of Edward's books I read, the more I love the Gorey.
This is from the 50s and it is so different.
Thank heavens his work is still around.This little book is about breathing life into an idea to make it become a story.
It looks like a laborious process.
I simply love the fact that he keeps a list of titles and every 2 years on November 18th, he picks a title and begins to write the book.
It's like clockwork.
Thank you to all the artists who go through this.The drawings are fantastic and so Gorey.
Writers.
Our novels drive us so crazy.They lurk around in our heads begging to be written, yet when we have the time and materials, they latch in their claws and refuse to come outside.I have this feeling people who don't like to write might not understand this in the same way.
Unstrung Harp is a very true-to-life portrait of the demon that is writer's block, amongst other annoyances a writer can experience - bad criticism, envy and disagreement from their peers and colleagues, disappointment that their work this time does not surpass their work last time.One wonders if that's not what Gorey went through trying to publish this story.(Note: This story also appears in the author's collection Amphigorey.)
Mr. Earbrass ponders, writes, publishes, talks about, and runs away from his new novel.Before writing this review, I (a far-less successful writer of novels than Earbrass) had a cup of coffee, thought about writing something hilarious with not a clue what it would say, therefore to procrastinate, I hugged my dog so hard she slunk into the couch corner and pretended to have an itch, so then I ran to the bathroom; I will not describe my output, but suffice it to say that preparing to write excites my lower tract.
The Unstrung Harp has the subtitle "or, Mr Earbrass writes a novel" and begins with "Mr C(lavius) F(rederick) Earbrass" contemplating his next book.
"On November 18th of alternate years" he selects a "title at random from a list of them he keeps in a little green note-book." Over the course of the next several pages, we get glimpses of the plot-heavy story he's constructing, and while his novels have pseudo-serious-sounding titles like "More Chains than Clank" and "The Meaning of the House," the clues suggest that he's at work on a highbrow, yet slightly off-center, mystery.
Writing, however, doesn't come easily for Mr Earbrass, and the illustrations capture this struggle: Mr Earbrass looking out of the window.
Mr. Earbrass stands on the terrace at twilight.
It is bleak; it is cold; and the virtue has gone out of everything.
Words drift through his mind: anguish turnips conjunctions illness defeat string parties no parties urns desuetude disaffection claws loss Trebizond napkins shame stones distance fever Antipodes mush glaciers incoherence labels miasma amputation tides deceit mourning elsewards...I really cannot explain this.
My favorite panels are the last two, but it seems wrong to post them.
(I can't resist quoting the penultimate panel above, though.
So wonderful.) (Unfortunately, I seem to be too incompetent to post an image properly.
Self - indulgent drivel for those who like to write and FUN as well.
Have you ever wondered what an author goes through when creating a novel?
You really have to ask why they put themselves through it.This is an interesting attempt to get all those feelings and experiences known to the reader.
I thought it was a diary at first, but in the end it feels like a series of photos (in this case illustrations) in a magazine article where each picture has a little write up on what the author is doing.Nice little book, well worth having a read.
I pretty much hated this book.
I don't get the humor, I know that it is supposed to be funny, but I just thought it was stupid.
Who is this book for?
Certainly not children, I would classify this as a picture book for adults.
This story goes on and on and on and on and on.
So boring.
To me it is very self-indulgent to write about the torments of writing.I visualize the fans of this book as self-proclaimed 'writers', as they read they chuckle with a wink and a nod, "ha ha, I get this book because I too am a writer ha ha ha ha.
The trials and tribulations of Mr Earbrass as he writes a new novel, 'The Unstrung Harp' (what use is that?!!), having already completed and had published three others including the unusually titled 'A Moral Dustbin'. He eventually has his new novel 'done up in pink butcher's paper' for delivery to his publisher as he goes perplexingly on his way.
What I learned from this book? I am not alone. I have no idea how much sense it would make to someone who isn't a writer or other creative artist, but it's spot on, trust me.
I read that this was Gorey's first independent work, so it's probably rather fitting that it should deal with an author's struggles with the Muse. Not being a writer, or generally very creative, I did not feel much empathy, but I did find it amusing.Gorey's trademark strange creatures were already there in several of the illustrations, and I enjoyed Mr Earbrass's visiting such illustrious places as Collapsed Pudding, Something Awful, and especially Lying-in-the-Way. Very English-countryside.
Edward Gorey's first published book, and one of the finest. I think it may also have more text than any of the others that followed, a full paragraph for each illustration. Not that the illustrations don't stand alone in all his work, but his sharp, amusing commentary on the creative process would be difficult to convey in image alone.
Mr. Earbrass - surrounded by comforts that make him visibly uncomfortable - is the most perfectly realized and sympathetic character who would ever emerge from Gorey's pen. Second place probably goes to the doubtful guest of The Doubtful Guest.
If you're a writer, you must read this. It will take you 20 minutes and you will choke on your own laughter. And die.
Edward Gorey writes a book about a man writing a book. In high school I wrote a sonnet about writing a sonnet. Great minds, etc.
For the names alone this book gets three stars.
The fourth star is for Gorey's illustrations, the classic pen & ink scratchings which never fail to capture the absurd pathos of poor Mr. C(lavius) F(rederick) Earbrass, the well-known novelist, struggling with his latest literary effort.
The story itself is sketchy, but by no means negligible, and amply augmented by the images of the golf club-headed author in his various poses of uncertainty and isolation as he goes through the motions of publishing yet another book of "words [that] drift through his mind." When, finally, Mr. Earbrass finds that "the virtue has gone out of everything" and he embarks on a spur-of-the-moment trip to the Continent, he manages to escape his life of imagined lives.
On November 18th of alternate years Mr Earbrass begins writing "his new novel".
Un anno sì e uno no, il 18 novembre, Mr Earbrass pone mano al suo "nuovo romanzo".
In questo caso il titolo è già pronto da qualche settimana, da quando cioè Mr Earbrass lo ha estratto più o meno a caso dalla lista contenuta in un certo calepino verde.
Oggi è il 17 novembre, ed è anche l'ora del tè.
Mr Earbrass avverte un filo d'inquietudine, perché a quelle due parole, L'arpa muta, non riesce a collegare neanche il barlume di una trama.
Ora però ha ben altro a cui pensare.
You can actually find this online in PDF form, and if you've ever tried to write (or do, really) anything, then take a look at this. It's accurate and also hilarious in how overblown and dramatic people can get (*cough*definitelynotme*cough*) when trying to put together a creative piece. There's work and self doubt, along with a hefty dose of humor and preoccupation (and names like Hobbies Odd), and it's just fun satire with too much truth in it. Now I want a backwards athletic shirt...
Must be the longest book Gorey ever wrote, in that you actually have to pause in between turning pages to completely read the text. It also contains some of his most highly wrought illustrations. It's a droll story about a man attempting to write a novel and all the obstacles, uncertainties, drippy literary chit-chat, and plush scarves attendant upon him in the process.
Wonderful art and a fantastically short and darkly funny story about the tortured life of a writer. Really loved this one.
J. K. Simmons looks like Mr. Earbrass. I liked the ending.
This begins as a self-deprecating roast of writers, with attendant mockery of their quirks, foibles, and neuroses, only to loop back into a sharp look at the industry and Gorey's own feelings while writing The Unstrung Harp (through a fictional cipher; our protagonist).
I wonder how much it would be enjoyed by someone unfamiliar with Edward Gorey, though.The whole endeavor gets very metafictional without ever breaking the fourth wall, and like all great auteur works is self-indulgent by its very nature.
Like many artists he just wanted to communicate ideas and emotion, in this instance resulting in a triumph with The Unstrung Harp.
THE UNSTRUNG HARP was Edward Gorey's first novel, published in 1953.
Earbrass is at work on a new book, and each picture shows a stage.
Gorey's book is a wonderful and insightful commentary on the process of literary creation, and I will quote from one page:"The first draft of TUH is more than half finished, and for some weeks its characters have been assuming a fitful and cloudy reality.
THE UNSTRUNG HARP is a very funny book and is worth seeking out by all Gorey fans, although THE OTHER STATUE might make a better introduction.
I adored the droll humour and beautiful pen and ink drawings in The Unstrung Harp.
I smiled while reading this but then a growing sense of unease crept in as I felt a wave of familiarity with this story.Mr Earbass is the voice in your that tells you to just type one more sentence, to just paint one more stroke or to just finish this chapter.
This tale is not for everyone but will appeal to those who are familiar with the creative process .
My personal favorite of Edward Gorey's books.
In fact, I'm probably more like Mr. Earbrass than I realize; his challenges and stumbling as he goes along is something that many writers out there can resonate with.From a technical standpoint, Edward Gorey's pen-and-ink work is excellent.
It does help with the flow of the story and really adds to the Edwardian Era (or reasonable fascimile thereof) that Gorey is evoking.Granted, The Unstrung Harp is not for everyone and it might take three or four readings to "get" it.
But still, this book is worth reading.

Dedicated to RDP (Real Dear Person), The Unstrung Harp begins like this: "On November 18th of alternate years Mr. Earbrass begins writing his new novel.
Weeks ago he chose its title at random from a list of them he keeps in a little green note-book.
It being tea-time of the 17th, he is alarmed not to have thought of a plot to which The Unstrung Harp might apply, but his mind will keep reverting to the last biscuit on the plate."The combination of Edward Gorey's prose and illustrations is perfection.
(Woes!) I love Gorey's singular imagination and subversive humor, and I really love this book.
In “The Unstrung Harp” Gorey leads us through the process of writing a book.
In a very peculiar fashion, this is a breath of fresh air in its uptake on creativity and the process.
It is dealt with intimacy, as it gives the reader permission to explore the quotidian of a writer.
The long hours, the pacing around, the dullness, fatigue, the creative torture – it is all very present.
Extremely relatable and human, the main character, Mr. Earbass, is as strange as he is a mirror of many.
A book worth every single page, with beautiful signature illustrations, a plot very well structured and a superb ending.
Another wonderful little book in Edward Gorey's distinctive style; it is nicely laid out, with an illustration opposite each page of text. A very slight story, in length and in what actually takes place within it. I could almost imagine it as a sequence from a Wes Anderson film, with a narrator describing a series of sequences in the life of the character Mr. Earbrass. I loved it, although it may not be to everyone's taste, but if you are a fan of Edward Gorey it is a lovely way to pass a little time reading.
