https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/761025.The_Serpent_Power
In the tangled history of lies and counter-factualizations and blasphemies that is the "Western" creation of the "Eastern" creation of "Tantra," Sir John Woodroffe aka "Arthur Avalon" turns out to be, oddly, one of the most sincere and sympathetic figures, neither attempting to read Indian religion as sex-mad decadence nor as mystical hoodwinking, nor allowing himself to be shocked by his own thoughts. Would that we all could be so gentle.
Sir John Woodroffe (Arthur Avalon) has written several incredible volumes on yoga. Considered a "masterwork" even by Indians, these books offer an incredible wealth of information. The Serpent Power is a classic of Kundalini Yoga.
These chapters contain some mild Orientalism, but nothing too egregious, and some ambiguity as to whether or not Avalon and/or his informants think chakras, nadis and the like are to be understood as existing in the physical body, in a subtle one (in Western occultism usually known as the astral body) or as visualisations projected onto the body by the practitioner in order to better appreciate Vedanta philosophy.
It's actually quite a tricky philosophical text, or possibly anatomy text, depending on which view you take of the aforementioned ambiguity.
Sir John Woodroffe or Arthur Avalon was a scholar and he translated complicated Sanskrit texts into English with a commentary. This book is a milestone in the western attempt to understand Indian mysticism. It explains fundamentals of Kundalini Yoga.
For how old this book is, Woodroffe (a.k.a. Arthur Avalon) does a really good job at being informative and well-researched, citing sources often and yet also elucidating concepts in fairly clear language. Recommended for those who want a more 'traditional' understanding of Hindu tantra and kundalini which draws from Upanishads & tantras (rather than the typical modern teacher who appears to be making up everything as they go along).
This book is very dense and a slow read, however, based on other readers' reviews, extremely valuable and worth working through. I have put it down and will pick it up after I read The Origins and History of Consciousness.
I have this book and was supposed to read it for a class, but never did. Maybe I should pick it up.
Un saggio che non può certo mancare nella nostra libreria. Fondamentale per chi si occupa di yoga o vuole conoscere il pensiero indiano. E, parlando dei Chakra dei quali tutti ormai parlano ma nessuno sa di fatto cosa sono, qui c'è il testo originale.
this book translates two important tantric texts. in addition to the primary source material, the author provides long analytical commentary about mantras, chakras and other elements of kundalini yoga. she is the aspect of creative energy that eventually forms mind and form, and comes to rest in the lowest form of matter. she is consciousness: the power of matter to know itself. she is the goddess. it seems silly that as a woman, that i have avoided truly studying this topic for so long.
A extensive thesis on the subject of kundalini tantra. The book covers the subject in more of a theoretical approach and offers a lot of references from ancient Indian writings. One of the oldest but live description of the journey and experiences of the author. Only i felt that more illustrations could have been added. This book is for serious readers, novice may get easily distracted reading it.
The Serpent Power: The Secrets of Tantric and Shaktic Yoga
Beautifully narrated by Sir Woodrofe
great book
