https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/619040.Initiation
I started this book over a year ago and just picked it up again.
It's the first-person narrative of Elisabeth Haich, Western yogi born in Hungary in the late 19th century, and her detailed recollection of her past life as an initiate in ancient Egypt.
When I first started reading the book, I had gotten stuck in the particularly dense section on sacred geometry, but ironically enough, the very next chapter was on astrology, one of my very favorite subjects, and illuminates the epochs, Biblical symbology, and reincarnation in ways I have never before seen or considered.
I have mixed feelings about this book and I actually stopped reading it after page 214.
I'm a believer in reincarnation but I just didn't believe this author's story.
It didn't feel right in my heart.
Yes, there were some great spiritual teachings within these pages, but I found it difficult to focus on the message as I didn't trust the messenger.
My take on this book is that it has a lot to offer, but as always, nobody (author, initiate or other) can give us all the answers that our souls seek.
Every individual must seek and follow her own path to her own answers.
This book is not some grand shortcut.
Initiation, however, is a deeply spiritual book with vivid descriptions of a time in Egypt when values and consciousness ruled.
The descriptions of the capabilities and fundamentals of the Sons of God is exceptional including the pyramids (the science and purpose), lions drawing chariots, the spiritual exercises, telekinesis, concentration, and the trials leading to Elisabeth Haich's Initiation.
The framework of past life recollection is similar to Brian Weiss’ books, but the similarity ends there.
This book is deeply spiritual with vivid recollections of a time in Egypt where wisdom ruled.
I'm very tempted to drop everything I'm reading to start this one.
No idea why I'm stoked to read it when I have no clue as to what it's about.
Sadly, I haven't even read the back cover.
It just seems liked something I'd enjoy.
A friend handed it to me one winter evening 2 years ago and told me that it reminded him of me.
It got me curious but not curious enough to start it then.
Now it's found it's way back to me and I shall devour it before my summer ends.Edit: I just skimmed over other reviews and it seems that my feelings were right about it turning out to be spectacular.
It's an amazing account of one woman's discovery of herself. In her journey she unlocks truths about science, math, yoga, religion, history, alchemy, peace, and so much more. I cherish this book and I think that everyone should read it, but I realize that most people can't.It does start slow, admittedly, but it's a necessary buildup to the passages that follow the first quarter of it.If you can, push through it. If not, set it aside for another day, but do read it one way or another. This is a life changing book.
Every time I start trying to continue reading this book, crazy things happen in my life, whether it be realizations of my own or just crazy events. I love it. it's challenging and thoughtful at the same time.It's also a bit dry at times, but keep going!
The book gives shows that human life and spirit is crucified to the cross of Space and Time, from the days of “Sons of God” who once lived on this planet, but slowly they took upon themselves to uplift the natives and cave-men called as “Sons of Men”, specially after the world faced massive disasters following the mis-use of spiritual powers and instruments by the natives & the last of the Sons of Gods de-materialized themselves with their instruments within the Pyramids that they built with advanced techniques of spiritualization of matter, enabling them to lift huge stones with the least of efforts.Initiation: We, the souls entrapped in our physical forms, are as ancient as time itself.
very important book for any of you, to read, to understand.but the thing is, the information that the book brings to you is very sensitive.
and i think that there is specific time in life that you should read it,seriously, with appriciation and love.i stopped 70 pages before i ended it.
if not, your soul can be hurt, or you can get crazy.after some experience in the past and after this important words, i understood that enough high information, start doing, from the beginning, from the ground.
so i clean myself, expend safely my consiousness to be ready to get this important information in the future with high abillity.
This is an unusual story, in that the author remembers experiences in past incarnations – most notably one in ancient Egypt – and links them to her present life.
It’s fascinating just from a scientific and historical viewpoint as she recalls in great detail mysterious practices from thousands of years ago.
From a spiritual viewpoint it is all the more captivating and inspiring, if a little terrifying in places.
Not for the faint-hearted, it’s the kind of book that stays with you, for better or worse.
From it I’ve found genuine encouragement to be ever more conscious in my own spiritual life.
If you are at all interested in ancient Egyptian priesthood rituals (ahem), be aware that you have to get through the first 200 pages before she comes to them. However, this is a fascinating glimpse into a person's reflection on their life and reincarnation. Its out of print and is obscure, but worth the search for us weirdos.
Amazing autobiography about Elisabeth Haich's lucid memories of ancient Egypt. A book that you read and say "Why Not?" when considering her spin on mystical truths. If you are looking for a book that explains esoteric secrets of ancient Egypt...consider this great read.
You can read this book on so many levels - like a novel from a woman with a vivid imagination; as a textbook on reincarnation and the spiritual lessons we need to learn, or as a memoir by a spiritual yoga teacher with a memory better than ours. This book is unforgettable. I'm going to read it again in my next life ...
awesome! news twists on ancient egyptian knowledge and a really cool scene about past-life yoga!i don't want to spoil it for you. a really fun read if your into the study of esoteric knowledge.basically a woman remebers her past life as an egyptian princess, an initiate to higher knowledge.
A great book!
Het thema interesseert me zeker, en er staan heel wat inzichten in waar je verder over kan reflecteren. Het eerste deel van het verhaal vond ik wat minder ter zake doen, en te lang duren, maar op het einde zie je toch wel enige samenhang. Wat mij betreft is vooral hetgeen ze vertelt over Egypte boeiend.
But my opinion quickly changed.Haich writes in a style that is familiar and easy-to-read, avoiding a lot of the jargon and forever-long sentences that seem to fill this genre.
I found myself relating to a lot of Haich's childhood experiences, so by the time she started talking about reincarnation, I didn't immediately write her off.
And while my faith leads me to want to change the world through actions, Haich's writing also made me see the value in meditating on God and how seeking Him in this way can help others as well.While reading, I took time to put this book down and think on what Haich was saying.
An exceptional read.
Elizabeth Haich writes about her current life from her childhood in Budapest, her experiences in World War 2, right up to her escape to the West.
In this way it easy to recognising the characters as they reappear in later life.
A lot of chapters are devoted to her recollections as the daughter of the Pharaoh undergoing Initiation into the spiritual truths of reaching her higher self.
There is a lot of explanation as to how the world works from a spiritual perspective.
A bit hard to understand in places but well worth the read.

This book was the most powerful book I've ever read. This is non-fiction and she puts to words, things that I've tried to make sense of in my head through experience but she has a way of explaining it very well. If you are enlightened and have awareness of the metaphysical realm, this book will blow your mind. I bought 6 copies so when the time is right, I can give them away to people in my life.
There is so much information in this book that it took a while to read through but by the time I finished it I wished I had made my self finish it much sooner. I was repeated astounded at the details that rang true in my mind. Many of my own past life and current life questions were answered.
Life AlteringThere are no words that could give this book justice. It is a homecoming, a ride throughout time, a journey with no end. I will read it again and recommend it to those ready!
I was realizing I'm a little but important part of the energy, while reading this one. And I felt how enormous and neverending space/love/being is. But don't forget you're still in a human body and live the ordinary life on the planet Earth and share it with others. :-)
I wish there are many more books along this line, written by westerners. I am afraid most of the so-called "spiritual" books written by "many" western authors nowadays are not based on their actual experience but products of "cut-and-paste" ideas.
One of the first books I read about metaphysics that opened me powerfully into my work.
Definitely one of my all time favorite reads. Soooo mind blowing.
One of the most interesting books I've ever read in my life. That is all I want to say about it: If you are interested in reincarnation, this is a must read.
A true time traveling tripper's book. Yoga, past lives, destiny, the occult...Will probably read it or parts again at some point.
This is one of my favourite books...
My favorite book of all time.
This book gives you an opportunity to think why did you come in this world? What for? For physical, sexual pleasure or for the way of your spirit. Each person makes his/her own choice.
