https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/539069.Fantasia_of_the_Unconscious
This was a curious book; a strange mixture of faux-science, spirituality, nature-worship, and the sexist "separation of spheres/male-female natures" fairly typical of the day. Its chief value is obviously in providing an interesting window into Lawrence's opinions of life, the universe, and everything, which are as far-flung as they are extensive.
The book also makes a really interesting point about how while we are cerebral thinking sentient beings we cannot deny that a large proportion of us, physically, literally comprises a mass which is more earthy, natural, less cerebral, more instinctive, more animal.
All is sickly repetition of stale stale ideas.”•“The supreme lesson of human consciousness is to learn how not to know.
It is terrible to be young- but one fights one's way through it till one is cleaned; the self consciousness and sex idea burned out of one cauterized out but by bit and the selg whole again and at last free.
I must have read this 3 or 4 times already, at different points in my life, with varying degrees of context for the "ideas" Lawrence expresses here.
Make no mistake: it is not "dated" nor "antiquated" nor "fascinating" nor any number of adjectives given to drivel such as this.
Herein lies the machinations of a man that sought to support and appreciate spontaneous violence.
There is nothing "good" or "worth reading" here.
There is no mind to glean here without refusing to acknowledge this was the articulation of a man that did not give one whit about anything beyond his self-indulgence.
انا اديتلوه تلات نجوملاني مفهمتش هو عاوز يقول ايههما لو برا بيكتبه كده او لو بيفكروا كدهيبقي غالبا مفيش تلاقي حضارات ع الاطلاقالكتاب بيتكلم في كل حاجة انت ممكن متفهماشيمكن لما اقراه تاني و ان كنت اشك في كده افهم هو عاوز يقول ايه م عمارس 2013
المعرفة تعني الموت
Lawrence just went off on one here.
Much of the sensibilities in this book are dated, especially in regards to gender identity and roles, but still, Lawrence's writing and enthusiasm is lively and engaging. His brilliant mind and skills as an essayist and philosopher shine through, and his analogies are always thought provoking. The mores of the time however did make me wince on more than one occasion. But, if you approach it from the mindset of it being a period piece representing the thoughts of a bygone era, there is much to enjoy. A chewy piece of brain candy to be sure.
يكمن وعيك الأولىّ في ضفيرتك الشمسية ، خلف معدتك ، هناك تدرك بالوعي البدائي العميق أن أنت هو أنت !!
