https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/565816.A_Rage_in_Harlem
Instead, he used his time in the Ohio State Penitentiary to hone his writing skills and emerged on parole eight years later with four stories in Esquire to his credit and a growing reputation.It was only later, after he moved to L.A. to seek his fortune, after he had published the novel If He Hollers Let Him Go (1945) to considerable acclaim (catching even Frantz Fanon's attention), after he was hired as a screenwriter by Warner Brothers, that his rage against America got the better of him.
The original title is very apt because the book is all about one man's crazy obsession with a woman named Imabelle.
It’s the same stuff as Saint John the Divine used, Goldy explained.”Now mixed up in all of this trying to make heads or tails out of what exactly is going on, are two cops who are the focus of the Harlem Cycle, although in this book they are only in a few key scenes.
She has had a bit of a rough time herself hanging around with those scheming criminals, trying to avoid church going men wanting to solicit her charms, and keeping out of the hands of the police.
Read by Samuel Jackson, this was an absolute auditory treat, keeping me transfixed on the drive from Georgia to Kentucky.Expecting something more of the snoozy literary bent, I discovered a tight little story of the dark comedy-thriller school set in Harlem in the 1950s.
For instance, at one point someone is being chased by a white policeman and there's a bit of back-and-forth about what it means to give any information to the police from the perspective of a black man.I was a little exhausted by the escalating insanity by the end (driving as much as listening, I expect, as the audio comes in under 6 hours), but the voice acting by Jackson the actor was effing a-ma-zing.
Doesn’t it?The ostensible protagonist of A Rage in Harlem is Jackson, a naive man, not too bright, in love with a faithless, light-skinned (this part of her description matters to Himes, greatly – getting back at his mama, perhaps?) young lady, who borrows (without permission) cash from his undertaker-boss in order to take advantage of a get-rich-quick scheme, gets ripped off by a couple of ex-cons a couple of times, is duped into committing a couple of crimes, and is racing against the clock to get his money (and a hearse) back before he’s arrested by black Harlem cops, Grave Digger Jones and Coffin Ed Johnson.
Jackson narrated it, I downloaded it so fast that smoke was coming out of my laptop.Set in Harlem in the 1950s, it features a hard-working church-going man Jackson whose girlfriend Imabelle has hooked him up with shady characters who can ‘raise’ money by taking ten dollar bills and turning them into hundreds.
My favorite bits were the ones with Gravedigger Jones and Coffin Ed, and Himes did several more books with them that have instantly moved up my To Read list.Samuel Jackson’s narration added a lot of flavor to the story, and he did a nice job of creating distinct voices and personalites to each character.
This was the first book I read by Chester Himes and I loved it! It was exciting, well-written, darkly comic, and unexpectedly absurd while still being noir to its core. Because of his love for his sexy lady-friend: the loose, conniving, high-yellow Imabelle ( “She smelled of burnt hair-grease, hot-bodied woman, and dime-store perfume.” ), simple and square working man Jackson loses all of his money to some con men, setting off a chain reaction that leads to a funeral home robbery, acid throwing,
In order to navigate this dangerous terrain, Jackson gets the help of his resourceful twin brother Goldy, who makes his living impersonating a Sister of Mercy nun, soliciting bogus charity donations and selling tickets to heaven on the streets of Harlem.
Solid ready to cut throats, crack skulls, dodge police, steal hearses, drink muddy water, live in a hollow log, and take any rape-fiend chance to be once more in the arms of his high-yellow heart.”
As you can see, this book is a blast to read, with writing like none other, and should be considered a noir classic.And how crazy is the cover of this early edition?
"Colored folks and trouble, Jackson thought, like two mules hitched to the same wagon." - Chester Himes, A Rage in HarlemFunny as hell.
Some of the best AAVE I've ever read and the imagery Himes pulls out kills me.
This is my first Himes, but definitely not my last.
I think I'll read 'The Real Cool Killers' and 'If He Hollers Let Him Go.' I spent a couple days in Harlem earlier this year with my wife.
I love recognizing the geography Himes describes.
Below the surface, in the murky waters of fetid tenements, a city of black people who are convulsed in desperate living, like the voracious churning of millions of hungry cannibal fish.
For example, Jackson is described as “a short, black, fat man with purple-red gums and pearly white teeth…” Imabelle is “a cushioned-lipped, hot-bodied, banana-skin chick with speckled-brown eyes of a teaser and high arched, ball-bearing hips of a natural-born amante.” Himes summarizes all the characters in the same fashion.The period of the story was probably early 1950s and starts out with Jackson, Imabelle, Hank, and Jodie in Jackson’s apartment.
The confidence team which includes Imabelle has convinced Jackson that Hank can turn Jackson’s one-hundred and fifty (150) ten dollar bills into hundreds.
Out of the fifteen thousand (15,000) dollars to be raised, Hank will get ten (10) percent for producing the bills, with his special paper, and Jodie will get five (5) percent for putting the deal together.
Of course, part of the blame for their misery can be laid at their own doorstep ( I thought Jackson was abismally stupid), but the lack of jobs, of education, of any hope at a decent living will drive a man to crime as much as his inner nature.Imabelle is a typical 'femme fatale', driving men crazy with her lush body and pouting lips.
Jackson still refuses to believe that Imabelle is in league with the men who robbed him, and all too gullibly falls for another confidence scheme, a Mexican Gold Mine, but he lacks the funds.
Then there are the readers who bring up the movie as if the book was an afterthought, or those who can't find anything original to say so they just stuff a bunch of quotations into a review.People, you are missing the boat big time here.This is Himes' Harlem:P.93:"Looking eastward from the towers of Riverside Church, perched among the university buildings on the high banks of the Hudson River, in a valley far below, waves of gray rooftops distort the perspective like the surface of a sea.
He manages to keep his hands on the reins, just barely.Himes is building on a Harlem Renaissance tradition that began with books like Claude McKay's Home to Harlem and particularly the work of Nella Larsen, who can make a pretty convincing case for being the first African American noir writer herself.
Himes' audacious mix of tones, and the grimy feel of his writing, make A Rage in Harlem feel distinctive and memorable; this is a great book."'I ain't done nothing.''Den what you runnin' for?''I just don't want to get caught.'"
A room with two bookcases it was actually the best collection of secondhand fiction I've ever found.
The kind of place that speaks of broken promises and facing up to the stark realism of what a holidaying person is prepared to actually read.
It was secondhand fiction heaven.
I found some brilliant stuff in immaculate condition at very cheap prices.
Included was this first Harlem Cycle novel from Chester Himes.I didn't even realise it wasn't social commentary type stuff, I'd assumed Himes was always high brow but this was a fabulous blend of social commentary with a zany blaxploitation plot of unbelievably convoluted proportions.
Great stuff.
Having read novels set in 1950's Harlem like Invisible Man by Ralph Ellison and Go Tell It on the Mountain by James Baldwin, led me to expect something along those lines with A Rage in Harlem.
Early on in the book I thought Himes must be pulling my leg.
I have never been there so I have no way of knowing, but Himes version certainly left an impression with me.
But Himes certainly knew where he was headed and the end result is a very entertaining story that I would recommend to anyone.
Δεν κατανοώ γιατί αυτό το βιβλίο δεν έχει την επιτυχία που του αξίζει. Αδιανόητο χιουμοριστικό νουάρ. Σκηνή ανθολογίας εκείνη της νεκροφόρας.
Along the way, they get mixed up with Coffin Ed Johnson and Grave Digger Jones, two steely Harlem cops, and pretty much all of Harlem, respectable or otherwise.I listened to this on audiobook, because there's never a good reason to miss a Samuel L.
There's corruption and trickery behind sanitized exteriors--Goldy lives as an eminently respectable woman of a certain age in a house full of other sharp operators who have found they get overlooked wearing women's clothes; a minor character with a good job and a churchgoing history appears late to take aggressive umbrage at Imabelle's refusal of him--as well as honesty and loyalty of all stripes--every black man and woman in Harlem knows the code to not give away information to white cops, for one thing, and Grave Digger and Coffin Ed's partnership is something higher and more motivating than any legal justice.
Λόγω των φυλετικών διακρίσεων στις Η.Π.Α., ο Χάιμς βρισκόταν στην αφάνεια μέχρι που μετακόμισε στη Γαλλία και γνώρισε την επιτυχία.Το 'Χαμός στο Χάρλεμ' είναι, πολύ πιθανόν, εμπνευσμένο από τα χρόνια που πέρασε στη φυλακή λόγω καταδίκης για ένοπλη ληστεία (αρχές της δεκαετίας του '30).
Σίγουρα πρόκειται για ένα από τα πιο πρωτότυπα 'νουάρ' αστυνομικά μυθιστορήματα, όπου οι χαρακτήρες έχουν μοναδικά στοιχεία προσωπικότητας, και το 'βιτριολικό' χιούμορ του συγγραφέα κατακλύζει, κυρίως, το 1ο μέρος, αλλά καί σχεδόν ολόκληρο το βιβλίο.Στοιχεία της αμερικάνικης κουλτούρας δηλ.
Πέρα από αυτό, πρόκειται για ένα μυθιστόρημα με καταδιωκτική ατμόσφαιρα, αγωνία, γρήγορους ρυθμούς και την...
A true classic black murder mystery by the best.Hines knew crime from the inside.
The movie stars Forest Whitaker, Gregory Hines, who died in 2003 and was one of the best actor and tap dancer around, and Bill Duke, another great actor who played in Predator and Hoodlum with Lawrence Fishburne and he directed this movie.
You might as well get the movie and have a good laugh because you will not believe the "jive" talking and the clothes we actually wore and thought we were the coolest thing around.
Great!Just finished reading it.I'm too awed to write more right now.If you haven't read it, read it.Update:A must-read for Chandler enthusiasts.In certain passages this novel played towards a kind of stereotypical depiction of black people as portrayed in B-movies by beloved character actors but there was an undeniable poignancy to it all ...and Himes' prose reads like poetry in places.Chester Himes' descriptions of 1950s Harlem rings in perfect rhyme with Chandler's 1940s Los Angeles.Same coin - different toss.A work of undeniable genius.
Himes' Harlem cycle and I will soon be scavenging the used book stores to find the rest.
Himes is often called the Raymond Chandler of Harlem but I think he is more like a godfather to the gritty crime noir now populated by Joe R.
There are no "good" characters except for the sweet and dumb Jackson.
A must-read for anyone who think they know the crime noir genre of the 50s.This book is also the first appearance of Hime's detectives Coffin Ed Johnson and Gravedigger Jones.
However they are basically minor characters.
I am told they come into their own in the rest of the series.
The stick man stood on one side of the table, handling dice and bets.
Across from him sat the rack man on a high stool, changing greenbacks into silver dollars and banking the cuts.
He cut a quarter on all bets up to five dollars, and fifty cents on bets over five dollars.The bookies sat at each end of the table.
A squat, bald-headed, brown-skinned man called Stack of Dollars sat at one end; a gray-haired white man called Abie the Jew sat at the other.
Stack of Dollars bet the dice to lose; took any bet to win.
Fast, funny and always one step from being completely out of control. Anyone that enjoys the current spate of "high-octane" thrillers should take a look at one of the masters of the crime genre.The writing is both terse and descriptive. No fat, only meat. Himes succeeds in accomplishing one of the most difficult feats for any artist or writer: He makes it look easy.A real pleasure. I'm going to run out and get all the "Grave Digger" Jones/"Coffin Ed" Johnson books. I didn't know what I had been missing.
So what better place to start than the first book in the 'Harlem Cycle'?What a wild, surreal & at times, grimly hilarious story:Jackson is the 'hero' of this story.
She was a cushion-lipped, hot-bodied, banana-skin chick with speckled-brown eyes of a teaser & the high-arched, ball-bearing hips of a natural-born amante.
Jackson was as crazy about her as moose for doe."No shit!and… "Lawd, Daddy, I thought you'd never come.''I came as soon as i could get here, honey.' She held him at arms' length, looked at the pipe still gripped in his hand, then looked at his face & read him like a book.
The farther east it goes, the blacker it gets.The story itself opens with a con game whereby the cons purport to have a patent on paper that will turn a $10 bill into a $100 bill.
Himes gives us incongruity inter-laced with humor in this very dark novel.
Perhaps that is also Harlem and its people would understand this better than I.
Sister Gabriel's verses are usually heavily laden with numbers, which people take to mean tips for tomorrow's numbers game.
Great combination of crime story and social commentary from another under appreciated author. The story itself would rank as a solid four stars but when you add the narration by Samuel L. Jackson it vaults into the ranks of favorites. 10/10
The biggest problem I had with A Rage in Harlem is that it is not very character driven, but rather plot and action driven, and this ruined many other aspects of the book.
The characters are flimsily developed and are easily forgettable, often coming across as mere caricatures.
A Rage in Harlem has moments of dark humor which often comes in the way of violence.
I do appreciate the look into this setting, time and place, being in Harlem and exploring the underbelly of this world, but mostly this was a disappointing, underwhelming read, especially based on all the favorable reviews.
Originally published as For Love of Imabelle, Chester Himes's A Rage in Harlem is a fantastic, Rabelaisian crime novel, and the best book I've read so far in 2008. The plot is the very definition of controlled chaos, with at least one either hilarious or shocking event occurring on each page. The characters all verge on caricatures, and the action is wildly over-the-top, but Himes manages to ground everything just enough so that it never feels too unrealistic.
The novel is written with the breathless intensity of a pulp author writing to a deadline and wordcount - which Himes did - a ferociousness of pace further compounded by the fact that the action takes place over no more than a day or two.In a way, it is a difficult novel to enjoy; while the pacing is breakneck and there are occasional flashes of literary brilliance in the prose, as with much hard-boiled crime fiction there are no characters to whom we can feel sympathetic; almost without exception the cast are venal and criminal and corrupt, or downright vicious.
I had never heard of Chester Himes, until, several years ago I read another author of whom I had never heard of either; Charles Willeford.
Now is not the place to espouse he virtues of Willeford, save one; his adoration of Chester Himes.
Rage,is a brilliant novel that takes its place with greats like Willeford, Thompson, Cain, and others.
What is unique, is that this novel takes place in Harlem, and is populated with Black folks, from the low life scammers to police, to lovelorn saps that are duped into committing crimes.
Reading his words, his prose, is like trying to catch lightning.

They are used, for example, below, in a climactic scene in which a main character, a scoundrel named Goldy, who makes his living impersonating a nun on Harlem's streets, is murdered brutally."Goldy's scream mingled with the scream of the locomotive as the train thundered past overhead, shaking the entire tenement city.
Shaking the sleeping dogs in their filthy pallets, the sleeping cats, the clogged toilets, loosening the filth."Harlem is the primary character of this novel, even though the book offers a tangled noir story of crime, scams, and killings together with many sharply described people.
