https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1235403.Gladys_Aylward
I read this book aloud to Aurora as part of our Sonlight curriculum this year.
I don't think I, personally, would have chosen it as a read-aloud for 4th graders.
Ms. Aylward's life was filled with stories of God's amazing provision but also a fair amount of blood, desperation, hunger, and death.
What stood out to her were all the sad stories, rather than the ways in which God provided.
I definitely think this book is a worthwhile read for adults, or even teens.
Ms. Aylward lived an amazing life, and it's a story worth telling.
I really enjoyed this book. What this woman endured was amazing to me, and I don't think many could have done what she did. She was definitely a devout Christian and her example made me want to do better. Definitely increased my faith to do the hard things God asks of us.
4 stars [Missions]W: 3.5 (fast read, simple and readable, rousing); T: 4.25 (almost stunning); P: 4.
Gladys Aylward was an inspiring woman who followed God with all her heart. Her story challenges me to do the same - to pursue Him fearlessly.
The dictionary defines adventure as "an undertaking usually involving danger and unknown risks." The life & work of missionary Gladys Aylward can be described as nothing less than an adventure.
At the "old" age of 32, Gladys embarks on a journey to China, where she knows she is called to be a missionary.
Gladys is asked to help unbind the feet of women in her province, and shares God's love along the way.
Full of confidence in God's call on her life, Gladys sets out to bring Good News to China for the rest of her life.
I enjoyed reading this book aloud with my girls.
As with all the books in this series that we've read so far, this story is very inspiring and challenges us to dream big!
I've never had to pre-read any books in this series before, and I didn't do so with this one, but I found myself regretting that.
These scenes would have completely freaked my 5 and 9-year olds out so I found myself editing on the fly several times throughout the book which I don't enjoy doing as I am not particularly good at it.
As a young woman, Gladys became irrevocably convinced that God wanted her to serve as a missionary in China.
Following her arrival (an adventure of its own), Gladys continued to serve God in so many incredible ways while she was in China.I had heard very little about Gladys Aylward before I read this book, but I must say that she was an incredible woman.
What an amazing woman of God. If you want to be moved in your faith, then this book (and the rest of the series too, presumably) is for you.
This was an exciting missionary story that I read to my 6-year old. He (and I) really enjoyed it!
Not as good as the first one that I read...but still amazing to think there are people who serve God in this way.
A very nice biography of a wonderful woman.
What an amazing story! Gladys Alyward really had some determination to serve the Lord! Another great biography by Benge
Gladys's story is inspiring, and I want to learn more about her. My sons enjoyed every bit of her story.
She becomes an innkeeper, adopts like a 100 children as she runs an orphanage, quiets a prison riot, becomes an official foot inspect for the Chinese province, escapes with 94 children when the Japanese invade her town, all while telling the good news of Jesus everywhere...it's incredible what she has gone through!
She was a foot binding-reform worker for the Chinese gvt.
& a prison reform activist for the Chinese gvt.
She became a close friend of the local mandarin, and adopted quite a few Chinese children.-This one too I read in the .....
It is the inspiring read of an English maid named Gladys Aylward born in 1902, who got it into her noggin that she must have travelled to China, and done missionary work.
Death and danger were always around the corner lurking:—An inspiring story of how Gladys Aylward travelled from England-China, and back, and back!
An inspiring read:
Gladys Aylward lived a remarkable life. She was obedient to God's call on her life and many Chinese became believers as a result. She experienced incredible difficulties that she was able to overcome only with God's help and in situations where she was out of options, God always came through. He also prepared the way for her and those she helped. She truly lived for others in her obedience to God.This book was a quick read and perfect for those who want to be reminded of God's faithfulness and provision for those who follow Him in radical obedience.
This is an amazing testimony of overcoming trial and adversity through faith. There were many times I felt frustrated with Gladys for not praying or for being stubborn in situations, but God repeatedly shows Himself faithful in delivering her (and many others) from evil circumstances. I would have given this a 5 star rating if there weren't a few historical discrepancies between this and other sources.
This book is a must read. Well-written, easy to follow and a compelling, inspirational story to boot. I don’t want to get into too much detail about the book because you should just read it for yourself. Gladys Aylward lived a fantastic, inspiring life and endured trials beyond imagining serving the Lord in China. Her story needs to be read by anyone who needs a little motivation to live life to the fullest.
I listened as an audiobook with my children. We couldn’t stop listening! This was such an exciting true story. This is definitely one of my new favourite books, and my favourite so far of the YWAM publishing books.
This book is incredibly awe inspiring. Gladys Aylward was a very strong woman that we can all learn something from. She went through so much, and yet she always trusted in the Lord and worked hard to serve him. I'm really, REALLY glad I decided to re-read this, and I highly recommend it.
Its a wonderful & powerful account of her life. Her journey of blind faith in the Lord is truly inspiring. Thank you for sharing her great and living story.
Her story inspires!!
What a determined woman who put her life in God’s hands and saved 1,000’s of Chinese
An amazing and inspiring story of one small woman’s Faith in Jesus, how He walked with her through her life’s ministry to the Chinese and worked many miracles along her path as she followed Him !!
Great little biography of an inspiring life. I highly recommend for tweens and up. I'm considering reading one of the older unabridged biographies on Gladys Aylward as a comparison.
Absolutely loved the story of a brave woman who put all her trust and love in Jesus. Overcoming many obstacles that many of us will never have to face, to show the people of China the love of God
Delighted our entire family for a month of evening reading. The storyline is extraordinary and written with a wonderful flow
Another read-aloud with my 11 year old son. We have both loved every missionary biography we have read in this series.
Great story. My kids loved it even though they got a little frightened by the intense war scenes. This is a great book for family reading time.
What a captivating story of a woman who surrendered everything she had to serve her Savior, Jesus!
4.5This book was wonderful! Gladys Aylward was so brave yet humble. I only took off half a star because it was very simply written and much detail seemed to be left out.
