https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/3425503-ripley-s-game
WHY WOULD A CLASS EVER ASSIGN ME TO READ THE THIRD BOOK IN A SERIES WITHOUT HAVING READ THE FIRST TWO.
Probably closer to dislike if I had to choose my side.Wow my brain is dead when did I lose my ability to not need sleep I cannot form sentences so now seems like a good time to type up some assigned homework sentences about this book am I right.
Oh man my brain feels like a marshmallow.Bottom line: I have basically zero opinions on this.
So. Dope that it's for class and I'll have to spend the next 1.5 weeks making some up.
“If blood can produce money through rituals or the so-called human sacrifice, then it is the basis on which we live, so it is very essential to save and protect it from the fiendish eyes of blood sucking predators.” ― Michael Bassey JohnsonWhile this is probably my favorite Highsmith/Ripley novel so far, it is also the most unsettling.
She manages - by introducing a new counter-Narrator (Jonathan) - to make Ripley's amorality seem even more fragile and desolate.
Throughout the novel the twisting and sometimes converging tales of Ripley and Jonathan seem like spinning endless mirrors.
Great Closet Cases in Literature- Claggart from Billy Budd- Nick Carraway from Great Gatsby- David from Giovanni's Room- Javert (thanks Wendy)- Ripley Patricia Highsmith insisted that Ripley wasn't gay, but he certainly was in Talented Mr. Ripley, and his interest in Bernard Tufts in Ripley Under Ground and Jonathan Trevanny in this book is difficult to explain otherwise.
(hide spoiler)] That's still interesting.)It's still a fun and entertaining book.
Only the first was what I'd call a great book; the next two are just fun reads.
Nothing wrong with a fun read though.PS If you have any other good examples of closet cases in literature, I'd like to hear 'em.
Few novels or writers make you want to read them even after you realize partway through the story that you've read the book before, years ago.
It's all about Tom Ripley's twisted and yet oddly endearing point of view.
Maybe it's because when, as the mafia are bearing down on him hard for gruesome deeds he himself set in motion, Tom relieves his stress by heading to Paris to pick out just the right antique harpsichord for his always loyal and charming wife Heloise.
Here Monsieur Ripley has the same drive that made him act out so horribly in the first novel in the series, The Talented Mr. Ripley, but he's mellowed.
But the second - set to take place on a train - gives Jonathan pause ("Must it be on a train?"), making Tom wonder whether he'll actually pull it off...If you've read the previous Ripley novels, you know that Highsmith is (among other things) engaging with earlier texts: The Talented Mr. Ripley is a satirical rewrite of The Great Gatsby, while Ripley Under Ground pays homage to The Picture of Dorian Gray, the original satire of the homosexual double life.
Tom Ripley is perhaps my favorite psychopath. Even though he is frighteningly amoral, I still find myself somehow rooting for him as he murders his “best friend”, engages in art forgery (and commits murder to cover it up), plays with the lives of others (and murders some of them of course) simply because he feels he was snubbed, indulges in a lot of sexually ambiguous behavior, and generally plays a game of cat-and-mouse with anyone who crosses his path.
Ripley goes missing for a lot of this book. His old mate Reeves wants someone to murder a couple of Mafia men but Ripley does not feel like it so he cons a local to get involved. When Ripley was missing the story was a bit ho hum and when he reappears it all gets a little far fetched and unbelievable.
About half the book is told from the point of view of the victim, Jonathan Trevenny, who has incurable leukemia and a wife and small child and is thoroughly likeable, so for a long time I was angry with Tom for mixing this guy up in trouble with the unlikeable and apparently (and unjustly) bulletproof Reeves.
I like the more mature Tom Ripley than the one from the first book.But the ending is dissatisfying: (view spoiler)[Jonathan, who's already saved Tom's life once by snatching him back from falling off a train, takes a bullet for him and is killed.
‘Ripley’s Game’ refers to the plan that Tom Ripley concocts to get the most unlikely person to commit murder and so realize the perfect crime. As always with Highsmith, things don’t always go to plan and we are suddenly in the middle of an exciting thriller. Highsmith has an incredible talent for laying the characters before us and letting us, the readers, make judgements about their actions. A great Sunday afternoon read.
I must qualify this review by saying I am already a huge fan of the Ripley books.This one is third in the series and takes Ripley in yet another new direction.
I feel this title may have had quite an impact on certain other writers, the comparison to In the Miso Soup could be made for example and is just another confirmation of the quality of Patricia Highsmith.Whilst she pays lip service to Ripleys past 'adventures' i don't feel it was an adequate introduction to his psyche so i wouldn't recommend this one as a standalone title like i might other books in the middle of a series and instead suggest reading them in sequence.
Patricia Highsmith is one of my favorite writers; she really gets under my skin. Ripley is such a great psychopath and he needs to make mischief just because and then mostly gets his friends and family out of danger with his amazing brain.
I don’t know whether my expectations were just a little bit low from Ripley Under Ground when compared to the first one, but this … Ripley’s Game reminds me how very much I love this character and how damn tense and enjoyable the first novel was.
Highsmith evidently wanted to switch things up and so quite lucidly switches between Jonathan and Ripley every other chapter or … whenever the hell she feels like it.
Highsmith knows what she’s doing here and you can really see this with the way she executes and seamlessly blends and makes us care for both Ripley (who we already do) and Jonathan.
I'm not used to reviewing contemporary-esque stories, so I'm just going to break it into pieces as per usual:CHARACTER:I think that Johnathan is the most compelling of all the principal characters.
It was complex and layered and made messy by circumstance, but underneath it all there was always love there.Johnathan and Ripley were almost even more interesting to read.
The plot itself was lovely; wonderfully paced, balancing action with suspense, and constantly raising the stakes for the characters.STYLE:The writing style is simplistic, with short, uncomplicated syntax and word choice, but I think it compliments the type of story well.
I think I'll be reading the rest of the Ripley stories in the future.
The game of the title refers to a rather nasty little rumour Ripley has spread about Jonathan Trevanny, who lives nearby and who Ripley feels has slighted him in some (unexplained) way.
The story also involves another character from the previous book, Ripley Under Ground, Reeves Minot, who is a fence living in Hamburg who Ripley assists in various ways from time to time.
In Ripley’s Game, Reeves Minot asks Ripley to suggest someone with a clean and untraceable CV who might be prepared to assassinate some members of the Mafia for a large sum of money.
& my appreciation for Highsmith grows & grows..
Once again, Highsmith spins a yarn of murder significantly different from the previous 2 Ripley tales.
As Ripley's character ages, his motives for committing murder have transformed from immature greed & envy to twisted ways of 'helping other people out'.
I reckon Highsmith makes herself a primary figure in the "anti-hero" genre w/ Ripley.
But he's a criminal who loves 'his' wife, appreciates the talents & dedication of 'his' servant, enjoys art, & will kill people on the spur of the moment or premeditatively.
This was even a sentimental tale.
what will an ordinary man do to ensure a legacy for his family, when he is mortally ill? murder? this is my favorite of the ripliad: probably because the protagonist, the moral centre, concerns this ordinary man, not the exceptional, charming, murderous psychopath tom ripley. compelling, involving, this also reminds me of wim wender’s film of it 'the american friend'. this is even better, cruel, exact, in following the corruption of this ordinary man and the moral wasteland tom ripley brings trailing along like a favorite old coat…
A strong recovery from the weak second book.Once again, Patricia Highsmith - through Tom Ripley - continues to explore Europe; this time focussing mainly on France. She is deftly skilled at creating a word that slowly closes-in on her characters; it is thrilling and suffocating.I also loved the dual protagonists in this book - the story unfolds through Tom and Jonathan. Both very different people leading very different lives, but connected through one man and one incident.
Che strano giallo senza investigatori, con cattivi così strani, fuori dall'ordinario.Bella storia, Protagonista eccezionale.Questo lo scrissi ricordando le impressioni ricavate negli anni settanta, quando lessi questo romanzo dopo aver visto il film di Wenders.Ora, dopo aver letto i primi due romanzi, confermo tutto e con gli interessi :)Conoscendo il Ripley precedente, il suo comportamento in questa storia è ancora più singolare e intrigante.
The third Ripley novel follows in style. Ripley's motivations and actions in this book develops the character and gives new insights to his mind. Just as hard to put down as the first two of the series. Beautiful late 70's paperback edition with a very good translation by Mårten Edlund, who manages to keep the feel of narrative very well.
This is ok. 3-stars is harsh, so let's call it 3.667 or something. It lacks the originality of the first Ripley and, in the end, doesn't mean very much. Highsmith is a good writer, but these are not really superb or important books, imo.
I fell a little bit in love with Ripley with this book. Which is utterly, utterly twisted and wrong. I'm so delighted to have discovered Patricia Highsmith for comfort reading. Yes, dark and twisted is my comfort reading.
It wasn't til saw the other books by this author that I realized this is actually 3rd in the series, so I need to read book two-Ripley under ground. I have read a few other books by this author and have really enjoyed this author's sinister thinking!Ripley is a great psychopath! Satisfying read!
Another awesome Ripley installment. Highsmith is the master!
Great psychological thriller, perfect holiday read - 3.5 stars really
Of course it’s been done lots of times since, but I think Patricia Highsmith started it.I recall Tom Ripley’s charm.
‘There’s no such thing as a perfect murder,’ Tom said to Reeves.That’s the opening sentence—and then you’re off and away.
Tom had often thought that his ego would have been shattered long ago – the ego of the average person would have been shattered – except for the fact that people, once they go to know him, once they came to Belle Ombre and spent an evening, liked him and Heloise well enough, and the Ripleys were invited back.” It’s oddly true.
Ripley, this most disturbing fictional character, gets especially creepy in the 3rd book of the series.
The way he plotted against the other main protagonist of the book, Jonathan Trevanny, just because he didn't like one small remark when they met at a party, is particularly cruel.
Highsmith is fantastic in scheming an intelligent psychological thriller, though at times I did find the book a bit long-winding.
Nevertheless I was fully drawn into the story and often felt the urge to take the protagonist by the shoulders, shake him and yell at him to either "stop what getting further into this mess" or "just start telling the truth".
I have really enjoyed reading this series so far.
When I read The Talented Mr. Ripley, I had no idea that there were other books about Tom Ripley.
In this telling, Tom sets out to help a friend and avenge what he took as a insult.
As usual, both in real life and in Tom Ripley's life, one lie quickly leads to another and then another.
Unfortunately in this case, a spiteful, petty little lie goes much farther than Tom ever figured it would and greatly changes the life of a basically decent man.
3.5 starsThis is the third book in the Tom Ripley series.
At least at the start of the book, there is not much focus on Tom, himself.
He manages to get involved in the life of a man, Jonathan, who has a disease and isn’t sure how long he is going to live.
To be honest, at least in the first half, I was bored when the focus was more on Tom’s life at home with his wife, Heloise, whom I find very boring.
I found following Jonathan and his story much more interesting, and when Tom got more involved with Jonathan, that ramped up my interest.
Trying to avoid comparisons with "The Talented Mr Ripley" which is one of my all time favourites is difficult. Although this doesn't come close its still a very cleverly plotted and intriguing read.
Rival Mafia groups are setting up in his area and Reeves wants them gone, hatching a plot to kill one from each gang to start a war between them and get the police involved.
Ripley knows he is being watched by suspicious police and declines getting involved but Reeves asks him if he knows of anyone who might do the jobs.
It is only when Ripley gets a grudge against another local man that he gives that name to Reeves and opens up a world of trouble for both of them.Jonathan has been diagnosed with cancer and had once been very rude to Ripley at a party, something that Ripley hasn't forgotten.
