https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/7171876-fallout
Told in the perspective of Kristina's children almost 20 years later, Fallout shows us not only the long term effects of addiction, but also how wide the effects go.
These kids all have deep rooted psychological issues caused by the simple fact of being born by an addict, but also by being abandoned, feeling unloved and alone.
It's like I felt more attached to him because of that.Also in this edition we get to hear from the real "Kristina".
Each book has a special section that make the story all the more emotional just by reading of these real-life stories.
OMGZ!can NOT wait!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
I'm not quite sure what made me not like Fallout as much and the other Ellen Hopkins books.
I'm not quite sure, but I think it goes something like this: freakishly  sensitive boy meets bland girl.
Apparently those  wacky kids are human just like you and me, which provides them  with plentyof opportunities to feed the  monster in Ellen Hopkins' that survives  on drama.
Also, a little thing that nagged me was Hopkins's apparent  hate of foster homes.
Yes kiddies, every foster dad is a molester  and every foster mom is a distant bitch who lets it happen!That said, I didn't really hate Fallout.
For starters, I was initially intrigued at Hopkin's decision to tell the story from the POV of Kristina's oldest children.
The important parts of the story, such as Hunter meeting his father and Autumn discovering her siblings, are weakly played out in short bursts of verse in favor of lengthy pages about driving through various deserts.
Aside from that, however, is the revelation that Kristina's mother writes three fictional books in the story titled "Crank", "Glass", and "Fallout." This is even hard for me to explain- now, is Hopkins trying to tell us that this is an Inception kind of deal, a book within a book within a real life story?
Want to see more bookish things from me?
Check out my youtube channel: https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCfer...3.5/5 Stars Hunter, Autumn and Summer have one thing in common, their mother Kristina.
Kristina has been addicted to meth for over 19 years, affecting her 3 oldest children.
This is their story.
I definitely liked Hunter best.
It felt that Autumn and Summer's stories were quite similar.
This was ALMOST a 4 star book for me, but I feel like the ending came too abruptly.
I wish there was more to the story and I want to know what happens next with these kids.
I've been avidly following Ellen's work ever since I read the first book of this series several years ago.
Whereas the first two books follow Kristina through her devastating dance with addiction and relapse, this one takes place years later with her eldest children telling their stories.
Also living with OCD and panic attacks and soon to be confronted by a past she knows little about.
Emotionally raw and painfully realistic, the final installment to this tragic trilogy is a satisfying stopping place in one family's on-going saga of addiction and its collateral damage.
“Anger is a valid emotion. It's only bad when it takes control and makes you do things you don't want to do.”
This was a great end to this series. I know that this entry in the series got not the best reviews. It was actually the worst rated out of all three. This one was actually my favorite. It shows how one person being addicted effects EVERYONE they are around. This book was form the perspective of Kristina's three kids. Hunter, Summer and Autumn. This book was their stories. I will say this again, this is the best form of education.
Nineteen years after Kristina meets the monster, her children continue to pick up the pieces of their mom’s bad decisions.I was so excited to read Fallout, and while it was good, it wasn’t nearly as engaging as Crank and Glass.
Between sex, drug use, and mental illness, each child battles to find their place in the world and to fill the void that their mother left behind.While I enjoyed reading about the children, I became invested in Kristina’s life and was hoping Fallout would continue to be told from her perspective.
It seemed like the three main characters, Hunter, Autumn, and Summer, all had the same voice and sometimes I got the details of their story lines confused.
Hunter's pages were filled with annoying drama between him and his girlfriend, while Summer spent all her time worrying about her new asshole boyfriend.
I think this book could have been A LOT better if Hopkins had chosen to put more focus on Hunter's feelings when he met his father and on Summer's experiences living as a foster child.
Hopkins could have seriously spent a lot of time developing this character's feelings about his father and their relationship.
As interesting as the premise of this book is, it just doesn't live up to it.Fallout is the aftermath of Kristina's mistakes while she was addicted to meth.
Everything falls apart when her aunt gets married and moves out (because you know, Autumn's happiness is all that matters).
I couldn't tell Autumn and Summer apart half of the time, which is saying a lot considering their chapters were in different fonts and they had different living situations.The thing that bugged me the most about this book is the blatant sexism.
Thanks for your dumb thought, Hunter.Other than that, this book didn't really feel resolved at the end or like things got better throughout it.
The new characters stories are all different, each with their own struggles and temptations, but ultimately connected.I spend a large portion of the book getting to know the new faces and trying to keep all the side characters straight.
And while I liked all the new leads, I think the book was too busy and would have been more effective with two instead of three.I did like, however, that Ellen Hopkins told real and honest stories that made sense in the wake of what Kristina did in the first two books.
This installment not only illustrates how drug addiction can impact the children of an addict, but also the family.As someone who has had a parent use drugs, I have to say the book paints an accurate picture of what some of the circumstances may include.
Hopkins does an amazing job of flushing out all the characters, and catching the audience up on what they have missed in the 19 year gap since the second and third book.I have to say though my biggest critique is when the author changes to three different view points, but I have to say that at times one can get the characters mixed up.
What a great ending to the trilogy!I did not expect that it would take me so damn long to read this novel, but work and school were very stressful and I didn't have time for anything.
But taking me so long to read it did not mean that I haven't enjoyed reading this.I loved how the story took place twenty years after Kristina's demise with the monster.
It was gripping and authentic and I loved reading about all of the different characters.
The writing was great.
Her writing style is just too good not to read any more of it.
Mere glimpses.The descriptions of how Meth affectedThe lives of Kristina’s kidsWere at times dramatic and Made you sympathize with them.Hunter struggles with trying to maintainHimself faithful with his girlfriend(view spoiler)[And keep his anger in check; He holds much resentment towards Kristina.He says that he’s dabbled in drugs and alcohol.
(hide spoiler)]Hopkins writes about Kristina’s two younger children:Donald and David, who have behavioral issuesAnd temporarily live with Kristina‘s parents.Hopkins did an amazing jobTying up any and all lose ends.She even shows glimpses of the characters from The two previous novels: Crank and Glass.
Fallout is the third and final book in this crazy trilogy.
I think it was a fantastic ending.
Have come to love the way she writes her books poetry style.
Absolutely addicting.
This book is written 19 years after Kristina met and danced with the monster.
(Meth, ice whatever) and had 5 kids.
Cause why?
Cause she is addicted to meth and meth destroys your brain people.
Her kids however don't wanna turn out like her and do everything in their power to break the cycle.
Round of applause for theses kids.
BUT do they actually break the cycle?
I wasn't the biggest fan of this book.. I enjoyed the books from Kristina's perspective way more. At least I could connect to her. This book lacked in story and in emotions, something that its predecessors did have. Somewhat disappointing ending to this trilogy which I will just remember as an awesome duology.
As the child of an addict, I found myself sharing a lot of the same emotions and thoughts that Hunter, Autumn, and Summer had.
I kinda wish that Hopkins hadn't added the possible pregnancy, but that's just me.Hunter was an interesting perspective to read since we've seen him in Crank and Glass, even though he was just a baby.
And I'm glad that he really was sorry and did try to make it up to Nikki.Summer was interesting to read about, especially having her in the foster system.
And I totally understand why Hunter and Summer are having a hard time believing anything that Kristina is saying.
What's the point, because you already know you like the series!
Like with Fallout.
Since the main voices in this book weren't hopeless drug addicts it wasn't as horrifying.
We see how Kristina's addiction affects everyone in her life and some people that will never even know her.
This is the third book I have read by her now, and I'm still in awe of her talent.
I don't know that I will ever be able to read another authors verse without comparing it to Ellen's.
If you haven't read these books yet, I suggest you do so and soon!
In ‘Fallout’, Ellen Hopkins has switched up the point of view and timeline of the story.
The story is told from Hunter’s point of view, as well as Summer and Autumn’s: both Kristina’s children.
By now Kristina has yet to fully get her life back on track and has 5 children all living with other family members or in foster care.I was a bit skeptical at this change and how well I would enjoy it after reading through Kristina’s eyes for the past books, but I was pleased at how well written it was.
I definitely did not like this last book as much as the first two.
I didn't like the fact that it switched perspectives.
Instead of Kristina it is told from the 3 oldest children.
I didn't see much difference between Summer's and Autumn's stories.
They were both very similar.
There were a lot of different characters thrown in and it was difficult to keep them all organized in my thoughts.
I do, however, understand it as with the addiction to this type of drug, people often go through a lot of people and then move on with no emotion or care.
OMG!!! this book and the rest of the books in the series Crank was amazing. I couldn't put the book down and from the beginning to the end got me. the author did so well with description and dialogue. she went deep down into emotions and made me cry at some parts but realized what drugs and other things can do to u. also I realized that what other people think of u matter and people have different opinions about who u really r. This series is my all time favorite series in my life.
DNF because I was losing steam on the previous books in the series and I just cannot force myself to go on. Luckily a friend of mine is interested in reading this series so I will pass them along to a good home.
So heartbreaking & powerful to see the effect of drugs on an addict's children.Full Review to come.
The funny thing is that if I didn't know it was written in verse book, I wouldn't have guessed it in a million years.
It reads as a normal book.I liked that this book focused on the children born to a mother addicted to meth- their genetic struggles with mental illness, how different their lives are -one not knowing she has siblings, a young man coming to terms with the fact that he was born from a rape, one in foster care, another adopted by an aunt and another by grandparents.
The struggle some of us face to not be our parents, to not repeat their mistakes.
I loved the first two books of Kristina’s story so much more.
Maybe it’s because I’m older now but I felt like it was the weakest story though the author wanted it to be the most powerful.
I remember feeling anguish during the Kristina parts but not so much here.
While her children each have a compelling story, the fact they have to share space to tell it weakens what they have to say.
Probably could’ve done without so much sex as well but I get this is YA so no chance.
Such an unsatisfactory end to one of my favorite series though.
It wasn’t the same story I was expecting from the first two novels.
However, I do think it’s interesting to see the “fallout” reaction in her children’s lives; all of these different stories could actually happen.
This would’ve been five stars had it been said what happened with Autumn and her “news”.
Did Bryce forgive her?
Was Bryce there for her?
Did Bryce even speak to her again?
I feel like Ellen Hopkins gave Autumn something to set her apart from the other siblings and then it was forgotten in the chaos of things once everyone was reunited.
I'm actually a bit upset with it.So, this book is set like 19 years after Glass ended and unlike the first books, this book isn't on Kristina's point of view.
But for the story, I think it would've been better to leave it like that, like it was Kristina saying that story, and not her mother writing it.There were some times when, for example, Hunter told her mother (grandmother) that it was so mean to have made him be the product of a rape, and her grandmother said she wasn't sure it was a rape, that she just made it up for the writing's sake.
It also felt like there was all this build up, towards the end, about the siblings being reunited and there wasn’t very much interaction between the three of them, which was a huge let down for me.I also found myself skimming Autumn’s and Summer’s part of the story just so that I could get back to Hunter’s story.
The reason why I was doing this was because Hunter was a character in the first two books, so I was more invested in his character than I was in Autumn’s or Summer’s.
I feel like I missed a lot of information and I have a lot of questions as well.My all time favorite thing are the newspaper clippings that update you on the characters from the first two books.
Fallout is a captivating story that is addicting from the beginning.
All three children have a different story of despair and they all have 1 connection.
I love that this book goes back and forth betwee all three stories and that they all have very different paths and in the end all end up at that same table for Thanksgiving dinner.
Kristina will do what ever she has to do too get the monster and that addiction is what causes her to do what she does.
The similarities of these stories mainly revolve around two things: sex and drugs.
