https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/79853.Men_to_Match_My_Mountains
Living in the west myself, I was surprised at how little I knew about household names (they have streets, buildings and towns named after them) such as Crocker, Stanford and Huntington.
While I was reading the book, I received a copy of a letter written by my 2 great grandmother written from Sacramento in 1851.
Sure collaborated what Irving Stone had written, Sacramento at that time was full of thieves and no place for a lady to be alone (she was young and recently widowed).
I have been to Coloma and Sutter's Fort and the usual tourist spots associated with my area, but would love to see them again and more since reading this book.
This is turning out to be a slow read.
The book is interesting but I am also struck by how ethnocentric the book is, telling the story of history from a white North American perspective.
Native Americans, Californios and Mexicans are only shadow characters in this history.
It also was very interesting reading about the Mormon settlement of Utah and other portions of the West and their battles to defend polygamy against outsiders and the US Government.This is an excellent book if you want an overview of the settlement period in California, Nevada, Utah and Colorado.
I have read two Stone novels in the past and have enjoyed them both thoroughly.
Within this book, Stone subscribes to the romanticized version of the West; a land where freedom and hard work built a strong, American character.
That being said I (one of my fields of expertise is American West history) learned a great deal from this book.
I found that some chapters kept me riveted, while others I read without truly taking them in or becoming interested in the action.
It is a truly charming piece of history, and the energy and enthusiasm Stone must have had for the project are evident throughout.
I LOVE this book!
You know I'm always wild about good history books, but this is a particular gem.
The history of the west is filled with larger-than-life characters of the sort we'll never see again (that's not all bad, by the way--a little bit of John C.
Irving Stone is a novelist but this book is pure history, one of two that he wrote.
Even so, he brings a novelist telling to the tale.
I couldn't sleep for days after reading the Donner party account.
Highly recommmended(that means I've read it at least five times).
Fascinating! I'm a Southern California native, with California native parents, I'm a Mormon with family and cultural ties to Utah, and I have been living in Denver for the past 7 years, so this history was especially interesting to me as I've been to or heard of most of the places Irving Stone writes about. I would recommend this for anyone who loves American history though, as the settling of the West was a unique experience.
A very unassuming book until you get a little ways in and then BOOM! Some of the craziest events in history I've ever read! Settling the west, Mining for gold, fortunes made and lost, the scandals of the railroads, duels, pioneers, cannibalism, cities burned to the ground, crazy economic situations etc. This book truly gives meaning to the term "wild Wild West." Folks back then were tough as hell. I gained a lot of respect for them because of this book. It will seriously blow your mind!
My parents introduced this book to me when I was in high school. Since then it continues to be one my favorite books. I admire the bravery, resolve and courage of the early explorers and settlers of the far west. The book shares their stories in a well written tome that's become a classic.
Fascinating, colorful account of the settling of the West (1840-1900). It includes stories of the California gold rush, the transcontinental railroad, the Mormons in Utah, Colorado's Comstock Lode, the building of San Fransisco and its colorful characters. I really enjoyed this account!
My mom told me my grandpa loved this book and talked about it all the time so I'm trying it out. There's already been a chapter titled "An honest scoundrel thickend the plot" ...so it's sort of awesome already.
This is a good book to learn about the settling of the West. I believe it gives a balanced perspective. While its hard for me to remember all the facts put forth in the book (its been awhile) I think it would be a must read for anyone who wants to learn about the American West.
I know that it was years ago and they vividly described how the book contrasts the experiences of the various settlers of the Far West--pioneers, miners, homesteaders, enterprisers.
He helped me to realize that the pioneers did so much more than walk a long way--they truly caused the desert to bloom.While enthralled with the settling and original acts of taming the Far West, I was less interested in the thick portion in the middle of the book that covered all of the gold and silver discoveries, their subsequent mines, and the booms and busts that resulted.
There was a rather nasty sense of the corruption bred by power, and how those in power used whatever means necessary to keep it (see particularly the men who developed San Francisco and the Western Pacific Railroad).Utah was unique of the four, in that mineral wealth was not the source of its development, but rather the religious faith of the Mormons who colonized it.
As a Mormon, I was impressed by the even-handed story the author provided, especially given that this book was written in the 1950s; he was, for the most part, spoke highly of Brigham Young and his ability to muster a people in unity of purpose, and accomplish great deeds with his colonization of the West.
This last time it was noteworthy how the passivity of the Mexican government allowed a territory to split off as others arrived to exploit its commercial potential.It is a good read too in its description of how the Big Four used the Central Pacific railroad to create a monopoly on commerce in the Far West.
They reasoned that the only way they could survive would be to establish a monopoly over all railroading inside the Far West." Then Stone describes in detail the tactics used -- right down to refused public access across their rights-of-way and highly discriminatory pricing.
It had set in my closet waiting to be read for years, and I finally got to it.
I had read Stone in the past (even in high school, and that's a LONG time ago) and I had forgotten how much I liked him.
This is his entertaining and VERY informative take on the Opening of the Far West, notably California, Colorado, Nevada, and Utah.
(I had to keep reminding myself that he was using gold and silver prices from long ago too.) The Utah history was lots about the Mormons, and I found it less interesting.
Best history of the far west I've ever read.
Irving Stone wrote a lot of biographical novels.
I think this is the only true history book he ever wrote, and it is terrific.
Of one tiny little lady with small children, the wagon party leader wrote, "She was the one who put the packs on the oxen in the morning.
She it was who took them off at night, built the fires, cooked the food, helped the children, and did all sorts of work when the father of the family was too tired, which was almost all of the time."
Irving Stove didn't disappoint. I truly enjoy his writing style. This subject matter of opening the West could have been difficult, bogged down with multitudinous information, but he kept it concise, engaging, and opnionless (as much as possible). I was completely absorbed with all if the Utah sections and learned a great deal about the Mormon settlers.
I am a history nut, so I am probably prejudiced, but I thoroughly enjoyed this book. History of the founding of Colorado, Utah, Nevada and California. Colorful descriptions, entertaining as well as educational. Long read, but worth it.
I can not write a helpful review - I found this book to be utterly engaging but I have a strong bias to the time and place. Stone selects stories of various individuals and plays each of them out like a suspenseful plot. Just superb.
This is one of my favorite books of all time. I read it several years ago, recently found it again and read it again. He makes history read like a novel. If you love history, especially of the Old West, this is a must read.
Stone's focus is almost entirely on the beginnings of European-American inhabitation of the region, and the ways in which it took form in the various parts of the developing states.
The various threads are nicely woven from one brief chapter to the next, entertaining anecdotes abound, and the people whose story this is are made lively again in a way that makes them sufficiently understandable to the reader.An excellent survey of a critical time in the life of this young nation, and not noticeably dated, though there are certainly material differences which have been described in the half-century since its publication.
This is a wonderfully written history of California, Nevada, Utah, & Colorado filled with many colorful people.
It is remarkable how much the author coalesces into the salient aspects for a highly readable history book.
Until reading this book, I didn't realize how long it took for Southern California to develop and that real estate was to the LA area what mining was to Northern California, Nevada, & Colorado.
This history is peopled with the ambitious, the hucksters, the promoters, the speculators, swindlers, visionaries, the dishonest & the honest, the hardworking, rogues, the deserving & the undeserving, tycoons & tycoon wannabes; fortunes gained & fortunes lost, and fortunes gained, lost, & gained again; the 48ers, the 49ers, & those who came later.

I had mostly read about wars and empires.
This one was different.Some men comes to a land and finds resources.
No government is here.
And the story begins.
This type of history is less encountered by me.
So i had fun reading it.Also the most valuable lesson for me was that Financial bubbles( an crashes that inevitably follow ) are no new thing.
I always though that for our generation, 2001, 2008 or bitcoin, this things are new, never happened before.
Well, we are not special.
A lot of crashes happened.
Over all, fact heavy, but over all it keeps you engaged.
This is a Fascinating amalgam of numerous larger than life personalities that eagerly stepped out into the unknown, often at the peril of their lives. Seen through the eyes of true pioneers and entrepreneurs from all over the world. The many facets of human nature are exposed in every extremity imaginable. The noble, the rogue and every mixture in between. What a ride! The author does not allow casual reading. Doing so drops significant events and essential summaries. This is wild frontier from another century, not suitable for PC colored glasses.
So this was like a series of snibits on the history of the west. I think the book tried to cover too much and it basically leaves out potential details or perspectives on the subjects. I had the audio version and the reader was like a 1970s announcer and what really bugged me were the mis pronunciations. Maybe look for another book. If quick hitter history is what you want then maybe this will work. Gets a rare bad revuew from me.
Irving Stone writes of the migration into California, Colorado, Utah, and Nevada by telling the stories of the men who made it happen. From the move for land with wagon trains, mineral strikes, railroad building, Mormon empire, cities rising. Originally, this vast area was the empire inherited by Mexico when it gained it's independence from Spain in 1821, but in 1840 that began to change and Stone tells the biographies of the people who shaped that change. Well researched and well written.
I was anticipating a book similar to The Agony & the Ecstacy which was Wonderful, but this one is Strictly Dry History. No dialogue, no emotion, just facts. If I hadn't already read many books about the settling of the American West, among them Michener's Centennial, Dream West, Doc, & many others, I might be inclined to continue reading, but since I have already been familiarized with it, I think I will consider this strictly a Reference Book....
learned a lot about the settling of California, Nevada, Utah and Colorado. This includes the major people and events, e.g. railroad barons, gold/silver barons, Mormons. However, the book was difficult to read because it kept bouncing around the states and included so many minor/miscellaneous people and facts that were really not important.
Pretty testosterone driven interpretation of history that definitely seems a little dated. It felt a little slow at times. I still really enjoyed reading it.
I love history!
