https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/687278.When_Things_Fall_Apart
What initially attracted me to this book is kind of a funny story actually, I was going through a rough breakup and happened to be wandering through the stacks at the ICPL.
It was then that I knew that this was my kind of nun, and decided to read on.Needless to say, she doesn't keep throwing rocks at people.
She actually finds many brilliant ways to cope with pain and ego and loss and all that stuff through Buddhist teaching, and then articulates practical ways for regular non-nuns like myself to deal with pain and ego and loss in their own life.
I was like "OK, that makes some sense." Then it sat on my book shelf for 8 YEARS!
WOW!I have never heard Buddhist philosophy laid out so clearly and accessibly for the Western mind.
When we are on the verge of such acceptance, it seems like the world is falling apart, when, in fact, it is just our illusions that are facing imminent dissolution.She describes meditation as the practice of pure compassion -- first for yourself (when you first attempt the deceptively and frustratingly difficult practice of meditation, and later when meditation provides more insight into self), and then for loved ones, and all humanity, ...Brilliantly accessible.
It was divine intervention that I found & read this book.
I didn't want my son to see me in this state.
Seeing this, my mom suggested we go to Half Price Books to get out of the house.
At the store, I browsing thru the shelves, I saw this book spine.
But when I read the first section in the store, I felt better.
If you asked me now how I got thru that difficult time, I can honestly answer, "this book was instrumental." I read the book that day.
This book was not only a HUGE turning point, it was life saving.
She writes and talks primarily about dealing with both the subtle undercurrent of fear and the rushes of fear from turbulent events that we all face in life from a Tibetan Buddhist perspective.
It's a true discipline to not reach for entertainment, distraction, or medication and to just let things be.She writes: "As human beings, not only do we seek resolution, but we also feel that we deserve resolution.
We deserve our birthright, which is the middle way, an open state of mind that can relax with paradox and ambiguity." In another chapter, she writes: "Things falling apart is a kind of testing and also a kind of healing.
This book has come up multiple times in conversation in the last year so I decided to get it from the library.
This will be a book I will buy to keep in my collection, to pull off the shelf and read bits of when I'm having a rough time.
I would rather have had the ideas presented in simple language than feel like I was being Instructed in Buddhist Precepts (and that there would be a quiz at the end.)The general concepts boil down to that we can learn to live with discomfort, with pain, with dark times, because they are a part of life.
Or, more precisely, this is the sort of book you don't pick up until you need it — when your husband hands you his copy, your mother extols the virtues of the author and your best friend nods sagely from the other side of the world because if there's no wisdom in love, where are you going to find it?
It's easy to read these brief meditations in moments of stillness and sense the rightness they contain; much more challenging is the act of practicing in the midst of despair or joy or distraction.
A thought-provoking book about embracing pain and approaching our struggles with openness and curiosity. Similar to  Radical Acceptance  by Tara Brach, When Things Fall Apart encourages us to accept our fears to better understand them, instead of running away from our doubts or distracting ourselves in unhealthful ways. As someone who has had his fair share of traumas and heartbreaks - as well as joys and privileges - I loved Pema Chodron's continued emphasis on appreciating times of pain as wel
by Tara Brach, When Things Fall Apart encourages us to accept our fears to better understand them, instead of running away from our doubts or distracting ourselves in unhealthful ways.
While this book contains a steady stream of wisdom (more free-flowing and less applied than Brach's Radical Acceptance), I will share two specific, wonderful quotes to end my review.On letting there be room: "We think that the point is to pass the test or to overcome the problem, but the truth is that things don't really get solved.
To live is to be willing to die over and over again."For more insight, check out When Things Fall Apart.
As a practicing Buddhist, this certainly fell apart for me. Did I learn anything new, see something from a different perception? The simple answer is, no. Personally I thought the author preached and was rather detached in the deliverance of her wisdom, it verged on the depressing rather than uplifting optimum I was expecting. Disappointing.
Quite possibly the most impacting book I have ever read in my life.
"As I become more wholehearted in my journey of gentle honesty, it comes as quite a shock to realize how much I've blinded myself to some of the ways I've caused harm.
I've become so use to the way I do things that somehow I thought that others were use to it too." Wonderful, wonderful, wonderful.
Instead, it was a beautiful LIFE perspective, not a book on Buddhism.
Coming from a thick Christian perspective, I found this book to have a healthy, fertile journey of what everyone who wants fullness, peace, healing.
I don’t know if I can deal better with pain or death now than before reading it but it was interesting enough to keep me invested and make me think a bit, and that’s always a good thing even if the thinking is about how ephemeral everything is.But the main reason I’m not rating it, is the fact that I’ve read the Spanish version of it and the translation was...
And I don’t get this kind of things, not for any book but less with international best sellers as this one is.
So...I hope this book helps you if you read it.
There suddenly were all the vulnerable feelings that Pema Chödrön encourages us to embrace: fear, sorrow, loneliness, groundlessness.
As just one example from this book, her discussion of the "six kinds of loneliness" (chap.
9) illustrates how our desires to achieve intimacy with others are an attempt to run away from a deep experience of ourselves.
For all the high-mindedness that may come across in descriptions like the one above, or what you might take away by reading the cover of her book, Chödrön is down to earth and unpretentious, speaking in her American accent (don't let the appearance of her name fool you) and with a self-effacing sense of humor.
In this book, Chodron calls us to "an unconditional relationship with reality".
Here are two quotes that capture this book's essence for me."When we are training in the art of peace, we are not given any promises that, because of our noble intentions, everything will be ok.
In fact, there are no promises of fruition at all.
We learn that what truly heals is gratitude and tenderness".She also says "Every time we give, every time we practice discipline, patiences or exertion, it's like putting down a heavy burden".I will keep Chodron's wisdeom close by always.
When Things Fall Apart is not the kind of book I would normally read.
But I was curious and I respect and admire the person that recommended it.The book goes against the grain of what we are taught about suffering and pain.
Chodron talks a lot about loving yourself, be compassionate with yourself, all parts, find the beauty in you and be kind with your flaws.I will end that Chodron says when you stuck stop doing the same things you done in the past, unstuck yourself by letting go and go into new paths.
Life will always continue to offer both suffering and joy (and a myriad of other things) in unexpected ways, so there's no point in trying to cling on to a (false) sense of security, or be addicted to hope for some better future - both lead to a cycle of unnecessary (avoidable) let downs of not facing the truths of the human condition: fallibility and impermanence being pretty high up there.And as Vonnegut eloquently put it: "There's only one rule that I know of, babies — God damn it, you've got to be kind."
This is one of those great keepers you read, reread and then loan to friends in times of need.
The great message is remembering that we need to learn to live with this sort of groundlessness, when the world pulls the rug, even the earth, from beneath our feets and nothing is ever the same again.
This is life--unfair, even brutal at times, but oh-so-beautiful and magical if you just hang on long enough to make it through the darkness.
Next to Wolfelt's books, this is one of the best books I read in the throes of my deepest grief and return to anytime I am confused or overworked, or simply stressed out.
this book was a refreshing look at how we deal with the not-so-good things in life, and what tools we have within ourselves to help navigate those times.
in this way, i started to feel a new sense of peace and serenity about the difficult things faced in life.
what i loved about this book was that she didn't write it to help readers solve their problems but rather to look at their "problems" as incredibly valuable, illuminating devices to open their minds and hearts to grow and deepen.
a great book, i recommend it to anyone who is willing to open up to a change in thinking.
This is easily one of the most important books I've ever read.
This is one of those books you could read a chapter of every day for the rest of your life and you would always find something new, something useful to help you live your life in a better way.
Simply put, this is an amazing book about the power of being mindful, of letting go, and about the importance of introspection."Some of us can accept others right where they are a lot more easily than we can accept ourselves.
This was wonderful. Pema Chodron expresses Buddhist ideas in such a joyful, irresistible way. Everyone should read this book.
And maybe its just because I know barely anything about Buddhism, but I found this to be a very high level book.
"Honesty without kindness, humor, and goodheartedness can be just mean." This really spoke to me because in my last relationship, all the nasty things that were said to me by him were excused by him as just being "brutally honest." But is it good to be honest when the only outcome is to hurt someone?
And one person's truth is not always anothers.Definitely not the book I thought it was going to be, and I think if I had been educated further on Buddhism I would have enjoyed it a lot more.
Don't worry, I'm not going through "difficult times" right now, but despite this book's title, it had a lot of good insight for not-falling-apart lives, too.
Chodron talks about how we might put a lot of time and pride into something - a job, a relationship, a sense of security - but like a sand castle, the tide will eventually come in and demolish it.
requested via library
The revelation of this book is how powerful it is to embrace and experience uncertainty and difficulties as opportunities to grow.
This is because if you live life as a present moment person you begin to see every moment as impermanent; impermanence breeds a desire to experience the present moment, no matter its quality, as fully as possible.
We experience everything while recognising each day is a new day.
This book is life changing, and challenging.
It changed my perspective on the way to live with life being uncertain and even chaotic.
Doing this as a society can change the world.A+
I was first introduced to Pema Chödrön's work when I was on the road, traveling from Toronto to Vancouver via Recreational Vehicle with five other travelers.
So it was timely that I came upon this work and weeks after placing it on hold at my local library I finally got a hold of it.
"Impermanence is the essence to everything" says Chödrön, and whether we choose to accept that or not we're constantly reminded of it.
Would we experience what it is to truly live?Pema Chödrön does a skillful job of leading the reader through difficult times in this important book.
"Rather than letting our negativity get the better of us, we could acknowledge that right now we feel like a piece of shit and not be squeamish about taking a good look.
Theism is a deep-seated conviction that there’s some hand to hold: if we just do the right things, someone will appreciate us and take care of us.
Nontheism is relaxing with the ambiguity and uncertainty of the present moment without reaching for anything to protect ourselves.""We could save ourselves a lot of time by taking this message very seriously right now.
There is a whole lot of focus on how all of us are afraid of death and that we will do anything to "ward off the sense of death, no matter what." Making blanket statements about the fear of all humanity is pretty off-putting to me.
I think meditation is a necessary and healthy thing, but I believe that breathing patterns aren't as important as focusing on your relationship with God and where you stand with Him. I believe hope is also a essential and healthy thing.
There's just a lot more to life than sitting and breathing properly, accepting defeat and thereby being at ease with hopelessness.
We can thank the situation for showing us just where we are still stuck and then move out of it to freedom.Pema Chodron offers us countless tools to use in our lives to address our problems.
"So we breathe in for all the people who are caught with the same emotion, and we send out relief or whatever opens up the space for ourselves and all those countless others."She offers another bit of wisdom in addressing DISCIPLINE:"What we discipline is not our 'badness' or our 'wrongness'.
In other words, discipline allows us to be right here and connect with the richness of the moment."This book is so incredibly beautiful; so gentle.
I don't think that I need to say anything else other than that, but that day was the first time I really picked up a book by Pema Chodron.
Chodron's note at the end of the book about how rough times are here and that we can choose to do two things, one is to cower in a corner and the other is to embrace the chaos to continue living.And, this book really is lovely.
The chapters on tonglen meditation and opinions were very poignant for me, two things that I need to work on in my own life.
We need to look outward in order to help ourselves and others.
And most importantly and perhaps the hardest of all, is that we need to be and stay in the moment.
I think no matter what your spiritual beliefs are, what is offered here is a universal message of kindness, acceptance, understanding and love for yourself and for others and surely that is all any of us want.
Especially in light of the very recent, tragic events here in Melbourne this is even more relevant and needed right now.
Chodrun's writings challenge me to approach my practice and life situation with more humor and kindness than I believed possible. Her words are simple but powerful.I don't know what else to say about this book except: read it. And may you and all beings be free from suffering.
Incredible. So many things fell apart in 2016 and I'm sure more things will in 2017. If only we could all adopt the wisdom from this book. I'm glad this is my last book read in 2016.
