https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6227.The_Snake_Pit
The fiance kills the rapist while defending himself, but because he gains revenge in the process he considers himself a murderer.
He eventually brings the boy home and publicly claiams to be the father.
The man is distinctly aware that Christ bore his sin in His scourging and redeemed him in His death, but due to Catholic policies of the time he cannot confess his sin to a priest without accepting some form of public pennance which will bring shame on his wife and cost her son the inheritance.
Book 2 of the story over the lifetime of one man carrying sins and secrets of revenge. Great love story entwined.
Ingunn's son from the previous book, Eirik, becomes a character in his own right, a strange and unique boy who gives a slightly skewed but still valuable and moving view of his parents and their lives together.
Another major plot element is Olav's lingering guilt over his crime at the end of the previous book, and his desire to atone for it, as well as struggle to allow himself to.
I would prefer to read this book translated by someone like Tiina Nunnally, rather than Arthur Chater, whose translations I usually enjoy.
The Snake Pit is essentially a sudser describing the trials and tribulations of a couple fostered together who, while they love each other, have a joyless marriage during which each has an adulterous liason and an out of wedlock child in late thirteenth and early fourteenth century Norway.
The Norwegian version was published in the late twenties and this translation dates from 1930.
It badly needs to be redone.
The English used is very archaic and is in some places unreadable, and in others so confusing as to make no sense.
A rendering into modern English is badly needed.
Sigrid Undset is a writer for the ages - her themes cover the most basic of human needs - I finished
The drama and the darkness continue. Amazing to consider this was written by a sheltered young woman in her 20's which led to her winning a Nobel Prize for Literature. Undset's writing "combines a supreme identification on the author's part with the manners, the morals, the feelings of the Middle Ages, and an understanding and creative grasp of fundamental human character. The characters are created wholly from within." That said, it is exhausting for me to read because I struggle WITH the characters.
The second in the 4-volume saga of "The Master of Hestviken" continues here, bringing Ingunn and Olav out of exile and into a new life together. But the hidden sins of the past remain with them, and they do not seek to purge them, either through civil or church means. An already dark saga gets darker, the already tragic ends more tragically here in volume two, but the final word is mercy, pointing to new beginnings (I hope) in the third and fourth.
"The Snake Pit" probably deserves 5 stars, but I found it so excruciating to read...I'd forgotten how Undset can really skewer a mother's heart, especially. I can't think of another book I've read in which despair is so tangible -- and has affected me so much. That said, the darkness only makes the theme of redemption all the more powerful. As I told a friend who'd read "The Axe" with me but couldn't finish this second book -- I'll press on, but the payoff had better be good!
Oh man, this story is heavy. There is not a happy moment in it. But I am still struck by how powerful both the characters and situations are. The family in this book has some big problems, but their struggles and attempts at love are moving. And I still love the Christian themes throughout--although these people have a warped relationship with penance and honor. But that's medieval Norway for you. I definitely want to read the next two volumes, but maybe when winter is over . . .
Olav and Inguun continue to battle with their feelings. Undset shows a beautiful picture of a couple who are bound to each other but have such difficulty expressing themselves. The background of religion and paganism in 13th century Norway becomes more apparent in this book. This series feels like a travel book in a way (a genre which I love). It's both a beautiful portrait of a couple and a portrait of Norway at the time.
This is a fascinating series. Sights, sounds, smells...the setting becomes immediate. The people become known. I'm going to read the next two books.
This second installment of Undset's Master of Hestviken series is equally as well done as the first, continuing the story of Olav Audonsson and his wife Ingunn in medieval Norway.
Loved it - the earlier volumes go slowly, and my favorite is the last volume. The book I had combined all the volumes into one book.
This story--detailing the way sin slowly works its poison through the lives of the characters--is difficult to read.
