https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2080244.Human_Nature_and_Conduct
لفتت نظري في المعرض صورة الراجل الوقور الجميل ده وبقرأ العنوان قولت حلو كتاب تاني هيأكد وجهة نظري ور
In 1918, Dewey delivered a series of lectures at Stanford which became the basis for his important book, "Human Nature and Conduct: An Introduction to Social Psychology" (1921) which offers a point of entry into his thinking, particularly his ethics.
He also has insightful, largely critical observations to make about Kantianism and the Categorical Imperative and about philosophical utilitarianism.As the book proceeds, Dewey becomes more insistent upon the importance of the social sciences as providing a means for directing human action.
Perhaps I just haven't read enough philosophy, but I'm surprised that this book isn't heralded as a key moment in American philosophy, if not Western philosophy altogether.
Dewey's interpretation of Kant's Categorical Imperative is wonderful, and for the first time I think I'm starting to get a grip on why that idea is such a significant part of philosophical history.
I will use this book as a constant reference in years to come.My one criticism is that, at times, Dewey borders on making blank slate arguments.
This outlook is entirely pragmatic, eminently useful, and profoundly inspiring.
If you don't mind wading through Dewey's dense vocabulary and sentence construction, Human Nature and Conduct provides an interesting critique of and alternative to the Platonic, Utilitarian, and religious conceptions of morality and progress.
This book changed my life.
Coming out of the age of Darwin, Dewey acknowledges biological nature by noting the obvious (e.g., where "body organs" like hunger and sex are involved), but then moves to his real point, which is that culture forms our human nature in the way that it really counts.
Nature provides the raw material for human nature (impulses) but impulses and character are formed by culture and habit, which are the "ways of using and incorporating the environment." As biological beings, we all have impulses, but the specific form these take is determined from the outside.
They are the ones who accumulate the wrath that sweeps away customs and institutions in an undiscriminating avalanche.
What he really objects to is any disturbance of his own vested securities, comforts and privileged powers.""What makes the difference in each of these cases is the difference between a self taken as something already made and a self still making through action.
In the former case, action has to contribute profit or security or consolation to a self.
This book came recommended by Steven Jackson when he visited UMD last year.
I'm a fan of Jackson's work on repair, and was curious about how his ideas connected back to Dewey's Human Nature and Conduct.I've been slowly reading it, savoring each chapter on bus rides to work since then.
Let's just say it is a very hopeful book and provides a very clear and yet generous view of the human enterprise.I don't know if I was imagining it, but I seemed to see a lot of parallels between it and some reading I'm doing about Buddhism.
Dewey's logical and accessible inquiry into the realm of human nature is superb reading. I remember thoroughly enjoying this book. Dewey looks at human nature from an environmental as well as habitual/custom standpoint and doesn't fall into an essentialist position regarding human nature from a biological deterministic perspective. He is wildly liberatory and that energy is contagious. To me, it means that we, humans, are not essentially evil creatures bent on chaos and destruction, but rather have the tools to have rational and compassionate understandings. Read this book.
So far...review in progress....Dewey Rocks! This book is taken from a series of lectures given in 1918. I had to remind myself of that as I read because Dewey seems to anticipate and clarify some of the cul-de-sacs that philosophers and psychologists were still wandering around lost in (until functional MRI's). More to follow. Still, more of a review to follow. Bumped the book up to a five after finding it once again and reading another chapter.
this book is life changing... for me at least. if i were the tattooing kind, i would tattoo passages from Dewey on my body. the problem would be choosing which ones. there are too many beautiful and important passages. i would run out of skin.
مقدمة المترجم مشوقة أكثر من مقدمة الكاتب نفسه مقدمة الكاتب محتاج اقراها أكثر من مرة لأنها محتاجة فهم وهضم .إن انشغال الفكر المستمر بميدان مثالي ينبت مرض السخط بالظروف المحيطة أو يثير انسحابا لا غناء فيه إلى دنيا داخلية ينظر فيها إلى الحقائق على أنها عادلة
Dewy explains how humans develop through the reconstruction of habits.
الباحث عن الحقيقة افضل باحث اجتماعى على مر التاريخ . بحوثاته تتحقق الان صحتها عظيم جون ديوى اعتراضى على الترجمة فقط
