https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/40961427-1984
Its characters lack depth, its rhetoric is sometimes didactic, its plot (well, half of it anyway) was lifted from Zumyatin’s We, and the lengthy Goldstein treatise shoved into the middle is a flaw which alters the structure of the novel like a scar disfigures a face.But in the long run, all that does not matter, because George Orwell got it right.Orwell, a socialist who fought against Franco, watched appalled as the great Soviet experiment was reduced to a totalitarian state, a repressive force equal in evil to Fascist Italy or Nazi Germany.
WAR IS PEACE.FREEDOM IS SLAVERY.IGNORANCE IS STRENGTH.Those words keep sounding in my head since I read this book.
The "truth" is what the state says it is.
That's describes the first slogan.The second slogan, freedom is slavery, means the only way to be free is by letting you lose yourself and to be integrated within the Party.
That way, you'll be indestructible and immortal.Ignorance is strength, means the division on high, middle, low classes in society will never be changed.
Afterwards, a new middle class arises, all will change except the low.
His benevolent overlords have provided him with some war happening somewhere for some reason so that he, and the rest of the population, can be sure that the government is really in his best interests.
The television also plays on his fears of the unknown by exaggerating stereotypes of minorities and homosexuals, under the guise of celebrating "diversity", but even these images of being ghetto-fabulous and a lisping interior designer actually exist solely to promote racism and homophobia, which also prove to be efficient distractions.For some reason, Winston gets tired of eating recycled Pop Tarts and eating happy pills and pretending to be interested in sports and manufactured news items.
1984 is not a particularly good novel, but it is a very good essay.
On the novel front, the characters are bland and you only care about them because of the awful things they live through.
These are the successes of 1984's paranoia, far outliving its original intent as a battery against where Communism was going (Orwell was a severely disappointed Marxist), and while people who compare their leaders to Big Brother are usually overreaching themselves and speak far away from Orwell's intent and vision, it is a useful catchcloth for dissent.

حدثني عن القهرعن الاستعبادعن الذلثم حدثني بأدق التفاصيل عن مراحل تقويض الكائن الانسانيحدثني كثيرا وطويلا كي أعي هذا الدماركي أتشربهكي أدميه في لحمي وأعصابي نصلا حادا طويلاكي أنزف روحي بكاءكي أتعلم شيئا نافعا قبل أن أغادر هذا العالم البائسحدثني يا أورويل فما أشهى وجع حديثكوما أشهى ألم المعرفة النازفالحرب هي السلامما المفترض علي فعلهالكتابة عن نفسي أم عن وطني أم عن وينستونبمن أبدأولكن مهلالما التفرقة..؟كلنا واحدأنا.. وينستون..جوليا..أنت..بقعة الأرض التي تنتمي إليها روحكوتدعوها وطنالحريّة هي العبود

!عندما كتب جورج أورويل في الـ1949 كان متشائما لدرجة بعيدة لما سيؤول له العالم بعد 1984نعم، ربما لم يتحقق ما قاله أورويل تماما، لكنه قد حصل بصورة موازية وشبيهة في كثير من المجتمعات الشموليةلنتحدث عن سوريا مثلا :الأخ الكبير : القائد الملهم والرئيس الشاب الدكتور بشار الأسد ..أعضاء الحزب الداخلي: بعض المكونات الرئيسية للنظامأعضاء الحزب الخارجي: حزب البعثالعامة: 19 مليون ونصف المليون مواطن سوريأوقيانوسيا: سوريا الأسدالله هو السلطة: الله سوريا بشار وبسالتفكير المزدوج: "دولة ممانعة لم تطلق رصاصة واحدة على عدوها الذي وجدت لممانعته" مثلاشاشات الرصد: الهواتف والتجسس على الإنترنتاللغة الجديدة: الإصلاح، الممانعة، التقدم، القومية وغيرهاأوبراين: نموذج للمخبر السوري الذي تمنحه روحك وثقتك ليضربك ويهينكغرفة 101: السجن الصحراويغرف وأقبية وزارة الحب: المقار الأمنية المنتشرة في كل مكانحتى الجهاز ذا القرص موجود باسم بساط الريحوغيرها ..المقصود أن بإمكانك إسقاط الرواية على أي مجتمع شمولي لترى منظورا مشابها لذاك العالم المظلم.لكن النتيجة المختلفة ..هناك بعض الجمل التي يجب أن تحفظ حفظا، لا أن تسجل فقط :الولاء يعني عدم التفكير، بل هو عدم الحاجة للتفكير.
I am a big fan of speculative fiction and in my literary travels I have encountered a myriad of dystopias, anti-utopias and places and societies that make one want to scream and.....  ...(with or without contemporaneous loss of bladder and other bodily functions)....Simply put, George Orwell's 1984 is unquestionably the most memorable and MOST DISTURBING vision of a world gone mad utterly bat-shit psycho that I have ever experienced. Ever!!! Despite being published back in 1948, I have yet to f
Despite being published back in 1948, I have yet to find a more chilling, nightmarish locale than Orwell's iconic world of BIG BROTHER and INGSOC.
Looking back on it, I have NO IDEA why on Earth we were reading this book at that age but I do recall we spent quite a bit of time discussing it.
I have always thought that one of the best and most important qualities of science fiction is that it frees the author to take the controversial, politically charged issues and trends of the day and create a possible future based on exaggerations of such trends and in so doing present a compelling and critical argument for change.
I'm gonna ask myself a mandatory question and say nothing more.Why the fuck had I not read this book before?
I must admit that I zoned out a bit while Winston was reading from The Book, but I was very fascinated by the culture.Sometimes it seems as though the only way to really experience a characters emotions is through first person.
I became a member of the Thought Police, hearing everything, feeling everything and last but not least, (what the Thought Police are not allowed to do) questioning everything.I wasn't expecting a love story in this book, but the relationship between Julia and Winston was truly profound.
From Big Brother to the Thought Police, I was hooked and wanted to know more about it all.Basically, I think everyone should read 1984 at some point.
Orwell had a daunting task: creating a future nearly half a century away from the time period in which he was writing.
It's easy to say "no one could ever tell me what to think or what to do," but the Party's use of Big Brother, the Thought Police, the Two-Minute Hate, and Doublethink make it easy to see how a person's ability to think independently and discern fiction from reality can be eroded when there is no touchstone to fact.

This was an up and down kind of read for me. There were parts that I really enjoyed and parts that I found extremely difficult to maneuver through. I'm glad that I decided to pick it up and give it a go, because it's one that I've been curious about for a long time. I can definitely see why so many people love this book. It explores a lot of things that we see happening in the world today. I can't say I'm leaving it as a massive fan, but I'm sure it's one that I'll continue to think about.
What can I possibly say about this amazing novel, 1984 by George Orwell, that hasn't been already said by many who have read the book for over half a century.
When it is said that the book is 'haunting', 'nightmarish', and 'startling' any reader would have to agree!
This well known novel grips the reader from the beginning and does not even let go of the grip at the finished reading.
A classic you won't want to miss if you haven't taken the time to read it yet.
I actually listened to this novel on audio and Simon Prebble was the 'perfect' narrator.
Social media is a cage full of starved rats and all of us have our heads stuck in there now, like it or not.
نتعرف مع وينستون على الحالة الغريبة التي وصل إليها ذلكم المجتمع الشمولي، حيث أربع وزارات تدير البلد، وزارة السلم وهي المسئولة عن الحرب، وزارة الوفرة وهي المسئولة عن الاقتصاد، الذي نعرف من خلال الرواية أنه بعيد تماماً عن الوفرة، وزارة الحقيقة وهي مشابهة لوزارة الإعلام ولكنها متخصصة في نشر الأكاذيب والشائعات، وأخيراً وزارة الحب وهي الوزارة المرعبة التي تشرف على شرطة الفكر، وعلى عمليات التعذيب المنهجية للمعارضين، والتي تتابع الناس من خلال شاشات الرصد الموجودة في كل مكان حتى في منازل أتباع الحزب.
547. Nineteen Eighty-Four, George OrwellNineteen Eighty-Four, often published as 1984, is a dystopian novel published in 1949 by English author George Orwell. The novel is set in Airstrip One, formerly Great Britain, a province of the superstate Oceania, whose residents are victims of perpetual war, omnipresent government surveillance and public manipulation. Oceania's political ideology, euphemistically named English Socialism (shortened to "Ingsoc" in Newspeak, the government's invented langua
رمان در سال 1949 میلادی نوشته شده، زمانی‌که جنگ دوم جهانگیر به‌ تازگی پایان یافته بود؛ و جهانیان خطر تسلیم‌ شدن در پیشگاه دیکتاتورها را نیک فهمیده بودند.
در واقع اورول کتاب را برای اخطار به غربیان، برای گوشزد کردن خطر گسترش کمونیسم نوشته است؛ اما داستان این اثر را می‌توان به شرایط حاکم بر تمام جوامع تحت سلطه‌ ی حکومت‌ها‌ی استبدادی نیز گسترش داد.
و باقي أنظمتنا الثوريّة التي تأكلنا و تفتّتنا و تسحقنا منذ عقود , هذا التوافق في سايكولوجية الاستبداد و خلق القطيع و و تنصيب الصنم للجماهير , و توجيه غضبها نحو الوجهة التي ترضي " الأخ الكبير " , هذا التوافق في مفهوم "الحقيقة" الذي تلعب على أوتاره كلّ الأنظمة الشموليّة لتختصر البلد و تاريخه و ثقافته و حضارته و حروبه و سلامه في العقليّة الجمعيّة بأفق الحزب الحاكم و الوثن الأعلى فيه .
كيف نصنع حدود النظرة : " الله هو السلطة " هذاكان شعار الحزب , و هو الشعار المطبّق في كلّ الأنظمة الشمولية , لا إله سوى السلطة ..
“It was a bright cold day in April, and the clocks were striking thirteen.”This changed the way that I looked at ideologies and changed the way I looked at leadership.
Forty years it had taken him to learn what kind of smile was hidden beneath the dark moustache.
O stubborn, self-willed exile from the loving breast!
He loved Big Brother”** 2018 addendum - it is a testament to great literature that a reader recalls the work years later and this is a book about which I frequently think.
The scene that I most often think is when Winston and Julia are captured.
This was the book that started my love affair with the dystopian genre. And maybe indirectly influenced my decision to do a politics degree. I was only 12 years old when I first read it but I suddenly saw how politics could be taken and manipulated to tell one hell of a scary and convincing story. I'm a lot more well-read now but, back then, this was a game-changer. I started to think about things differently. I started to think about 2 + 2 = 5 and I wanted to read more books that explored the idea of control.
كل ما تشوف صور الرئيس السيسي حفظه الله في الشوارع، اِفتكر الأخ الكبير، وكل ما تشوف الإعلام المصري، افتكر الرواية دي، وغسيل الدماغ اللي بيُمارس علينا.المؤسسات المصرية أصبحت بتمنح مميزات لمن يبلغ عن (إرهابي) , من فرص عمل وخلافه , يعني بورقة وسخة ممكن تأذي جارك اللي بينك وبينه مشاكل أو تسجن زميلك اللي بينافسك في الشغل , يعني المفروض نعمل لجورج أورويل مقام ونطوف حواليه.الرواية التى سنسجن بسببها جميعا , ونوضع فى الأغلال ويركبونا على حمير بالشقلوب ويلفوا بينا الأسواق وهاتف يهتف : انهم يدعون إلى دين جديد , يدعون إلى عدم تقديس الحاكم وسلطته .إنها الرواية التى يقبض على مالكها (لا فى الاتحاد السوفيتى ولا ما يشبهه) بل فى ام الدنيا مصر .أنا قرأت كم كتب مترجمه عظيم من حيث الكم (حتى انى وانا صغير) كنت بقول صعب ان حاجه اجنبيه تبهرنى تانى(هطل بعيد عنكم ) .
“The best books... are those that tell you what you know already.”   Just about everything Orwell says in 1984 is a maniacal truism. In some twisted form, everything reflects the truth of reality. Of course there are exaggerations, though nothing is far from plausibility. We are controlled by our governments, and often in ways we are not consciously aware of. Advertisements, marketing campaigns and political events are all designed for us to elicit a certain response and think in a desired way
Big brother does this by harsh policing, excessive surveillance and language manipulation.
Controlling language is perhaps the most effective thought control method I’ve ever heard of.
Step out of line and you are killed, though not before being dragged to room 101 for torture and even stronger methods of thought control.
As such through the plot the book depicts a stark transformation, a transformation of man who was once willing to fight and to think but falls into one of the ingenious traps big brother sets for him to expose his criminality.
He shows us that we are not so far from big brother as we may think.
(Translation from Newspeak: Excellent, accurate analysis of oppressive, selective society in well-written Standard English reflecting on the the capacity to hold two contradictory opinions for truth at the same time and on the effectiveness of protective stupidity as a means to keep a power structure stable.)There is not much left to say about this prophetic novel by Orwell which has not been said over and over again since its publication at the beginning of the Cold War in 1949.
Thus a creationist believer in the literal truth of the Bible will use the argument of “enquiry”, “controversy” or “evidence” in order to attack real scientists with their own vocabulary, while refusing to question the default setting of their own dogmas, which cannot deliver any evidence at all, being as real as the Bowling Green massacre.
Maybe even more so, if that is possible!!I wonder if there is someone who has read 1984 and has not felt angry and helpless.
It is a good book.
It is so good that it made my want to throw away my Kindle.
I also wonder if this world Orwell describes is that far from ours.
In 1984 the oppression is very in your face, but in reality it is hidden through nice words and fancy laws.At the end of the day, it really makes you ask yourself if safety and security are really what you want.
Read as part of The Infinite Variety Reading Challenge, based on the BBC's Big Read Poll of 2003. "For, if leisure and security were enjoyed by all alike, the great mass of human beings who are normally stupefied by poverty would become literate and would learn to think for themselves; and when once they had done this, they would sooner or later realise that the privileged minority had no function, and they would sweep it away." Nineteen Eighty-Four is an insanely relevant novel in this day and
It was a five-star book up until Julia turned up: whilst I completely understand her character and her paradoxical nature (being so openly physically against Big Brother and yet intelligence-wise and mentally not), I did not like her even remotely, but I understood her character fully.
Whilst I completely understood that this was an intentional info-drop and it really could not have been conveyed to either the reader or the character in any other way, it really made the whole thing very disjointed.
Enjoyment of writing is Opinion: characters being likeable, understandable; worlds being full or non-descript.
(written in 2015)In some ways, this book is very dated.•	The underlying misogyny is unchallenged (Winston “disliked nearly all women, and especially the young pretty ones… who were the most bigoted adherents of the Party” and he quickly goes from wanting to rape and murder a woman (he even tells her!) to lusting after “her youthful body desperate for him” and feeling “he had a right to” her).

Goodness gracious this was very unsettling. I'm already a pretty paranoid person, so the idea of Big Brother was both very intriguing but also extremely frightening.I really enjoyed reading this, but there were moments when I wasn't invested in the story and wanted to take a break from it, mostly in the last half of the book. Still DEFINITELY worth the read, though!
Great Britain is now governed by Oceania and resembles a Warsaw Pact nation--the Party controls every action and thought of its miserable population through propaganda, surveillance and torture--but what's happened is that an atomic war in the 1950s left survivors in the United States and Western Europe desperate for law and order.
It sucks here!2016 JoeWinston Smith is a contemplative thirty-nine year old Outer Party member who works at the Ministry of Truth in London.
If I was Winston, I'd stab Inner Party members all day without a lunch break.2016 JoeGeorge Orwell's writing is so precise, so penetrative, that I felt like he was broadcasting truths into my mind with a laser.
ولربما لو لم أقرأ هذا الكتاب ( وقبله كتب أخرى ) لن يحرضني غيرها للاهتمام بهذه الكتب ..على الرغم من قراءاتي السابقة في فلسفة الاستبداد ، و حكومات القمع والاستبداد وما يمكن أن تفعله حتى تضمن بقاؤها واستمراها ، إلا أن هذا الكتاب صدمة لي ..
مرعب والله مرعب كمية الوقائع حاليا التي تشبه تنبؤات جورج ، تغير القوى ، تغيير العدو في يوم وليلة الخ ..لدى حكومات القمع طرق سحرية حتى تقنعك بما يرفضه عقلك ابتداء، عليك أن تقتنع ب:الحرب هي السلامالحرية هي العبوديةالجهل هو القوة2+2=5وفي بعض المرات ممكن يساوي ثلاثة أو أربعة ..
