https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/148941.If_Death_Ever_Slept
A millionaire came to Nero Wolfe asking him to get a proof his daughter-in-law is - to use his own expression - a snake.
Usually even Archie Goodwin who is always eager to get a client does not touch such cases with a ten foot pole, but this time he just had fallout with Nero Wolfe and they were not on speaking terms.
Let me start my own musings by stating that I really do believe people who disclose the identity of the villain in their review of a mystery books without at least hiding it in spoiler tags bring huge amount of bad karma on themselves.
Wheeler-dealer millionaire Otis Jarrell thinks his daughter-in-law Susan is a "snake." Not only is she unfaithful to his son, Otis believes, but she is also leaking valuable evidence to his business competitors. Archie Goodwin poses as Jarrell's private secretary says he may observe the family dynamics first hand and to amass all available evidence. Soon a gun goes missing, somebody ends up dead, and the fun begins in earnest.This adventure is definitely more Goodwin than Wolfe, and Wolfe has little opportunity to demonstrate his genius. Still, this is an enjoyable entry in the series.
As usual Wolfe is hired to find out if a man's daughter-in-law is trying to cheat him in business.
He fires his secretary and has Archie Goodwin take his place so he can live in the house with the family and snoop around.
Meanwhile the original secretary is found dead.
While Archie is trying to figure out who did it and why, another man ends up dead.Were they killed by the same person, if so, which of this man's crazy family members was it?
And what of the daughter-in-law?
Is the man telling the truth about her or does he have ulterior motives for trying to pin her with a crime?
OK, when I was younger, I used to like to read the same books over and over, but these days I try not to do that.
There are too many wonderful books waiting for me, taunting me, in my "to be read" pile.
However, when it comes to Rex Stout, I make an exception.
I have already read every one of the 33 Nero Wolfe books and 39 short stories at least once.
It sits on my shelf but I can't bring myself to read it, because if I do, there will be no more wonderful new Nero Wolfe books left for me to read.
First, there's Trella Jarrell, second wife to client Otis Jarrell, who likes men to spend money on her and who has a habit of saying things she doesn't mean, but who also provides Archie with several noteworthy bits of information.
Jarrell himself figures prominently in the story, as do his son, Wyman, and brother-in-law, Roger--to say nothing of ex-secretary Jim Eber and business competitor Cory Brigham.
But, with the exception of the horse-mad racing junkie Roger, the women are far more interesting.The mystery itself is nothing spectacular, but Archie gets to demonstrate his wit, charm, and humor, which makes the story worth reading.
Meh. I am done. Weirdly, if it ever succeeds as a miniseries I'd watch it but I find the writing dull. Apparently I am NOT a mystery novel girl. I'll be returning the other 2 books unread.
Neither Archie nor Wolfe much care for the boorish millionaire who hires Wolfe to find a leak in his office.
In fact, only his irritation at Archie causes Wolfe to take the case, which requires Archie to act as the millionaire's new secretary.
Unfortunately, there's a murder that seems to point right back to the posh penthouse apartment.
Wolfe knows he must give the police some of the information he's gathered, but he really doesn't want to.
When he does, he's out a client (and a retainer), but he's also angry enough to want to solve the case even if it doesn't pay.
The mystery in this one is just so-so, but Archie was a star and kept me totally entertained. I think I am in love with Archie! And, I definitely want him to take me dancing.Fritz's menus were a bit on the wild side in this one - avacado whipped with sugar and lime juice and green chartreuse (whatever that is), shad roe with creaole' sauce, fresh strawberry omelet, hedgehog omelets (I hope that is just a nickname for something else), bread fried in anchovy butter. He is certainly original, as always.
A large cast of unlikeable characters! Archie and Wolfe are having a spitting match, and Archie goes to work outside the brownstone. The office gets a very full house, and even Dol Bonner joins in.
Rex Stout's 1957 novel "If Death Ever Slept (A Nero Wolfe Mystery Book 29)" involves a case that Nero Wolfe would normally never take. The only reason he does is a contagion of stubbornness at the old brownstone. The writing, as almost always, is excellent, the characterizations great, and the story line interesting. It really has only one slight shortcoming: the discovery and revelation of the villain is a bit abrupt and anti-climatic. Still, I'm very happy with the book and am rating it at a Very Good 4 stars out of 5.
A little different, with Archie masquerading as a client's secretary; the client's place sounds absolutely enormous and as much a closed biosphere as Wolfe's brownstone. (Good grief: if I had to live with an employer ... Someone would get hurt.) Enjoyable, though as usual I couldn't keep my out-of-brownstone characters straight.This ebook, though, is poorly proofread, especially in later sections. Come on, publishers; running a page image through OCR doesn't mean you've made it into an ebook.
Not long after, another is.With several meetings involving the whole family, the guilty person is accused and taken into custody.One difficulty about these books is that Nero Wolfe rarely leaves his house, so much of the investigation must take place in his office.This was a very good book/story, but I very much dislike how the reader is subjected to the brilliance of the detective in the last two pages without any other clues or indications or foreshadowing that he can use to form his own opinions.
The detective comes up with the definitive answer/solution like a shot in the dark.....Even so, it was a good read.
An excellent Nero Wolfe mystery. I love to read the Nero Wolfe mysteries. I love the characters, especially Nero Wolfe and Archie Goodwin and all the others in the household, associated detectives, and Inspector Cramer. Then the characters that are specific to this particular story - very interesting and lively. A good story, and a satisfying ending.
Another fun Nero Wolfe book. The pacing was good, and the characters, as usual were well drawn. The plot was fairly simple, but the determination of the villain was mired in a bit of minutiae. A portion of the book was eaten by a timeline description, and unless you want to solve the mystery yourself, you could probably give that a skip.
Great fun, and a great read aloud. The puzzle pulls you in and the characters keep you guessing until the very end. Wolfe and Archie are at their best, sharp witted and sharp tongued, and tenacious as always.
This was a very fun one! My particular edition included an article written by RS in Life magazine, about why NW loves orchids. It was interesting and cleverly written! Always a joy to be embedded in the world of Nero Wolfe.
Interesting story. It all comes back to the relationships: Nero Wolfe, Archie Goodwin, Inspector Cramer, Sergeant Stebbins, Fritz Brenner & the rest of the regulars. They are what make all the stories work.
Love Nero Wolfe and Archie Goodwin! A quick fun read!!!!!
Delve deep...Delve deep into the quintessential American detective stories that will cross both your fancy and you intellect...Don’t interrupt me, Archie!
As always with Nero Wolfe stories, a great read I couldn’t put down until the end.
I've never read a Nero Wolfe book that didn't entertain me. Not the best, but it's always fun to visit Archie and Nero.
I love Archie Goodwin's voice in these books!
A funny one, in several places Archie seems a little off, but it's good.
Otis Jarrell wants Wolfe to find out his son's wife is a snake.
Archie is to act as Jarrell's secretary and hopefully find her dishonesty.
Shortly after Archie arrives, Otis' gun (1 38mm) is stolen from his desk.
Then the former secretary is shot with a 38.
Then, a friend of the family is also shot with the same gun.
Wolf and Archie resign from the case, but they hire more help to search for the gun based on the schedules of the family members in the days between the two shootings.
I really liked this one the first time around for the part where Archie is pretending to be Andrew so Orrie has to pretend to be Archie, but upon rereading I found that the plot was really weak and it dragged. It took my an entire week of bus commutes to get through the last 10 pages.
This accusation has no basis in fact, and before long, Archie sees his and Wolfe's client is a bit much.Just as Archie is getting started on his investigations, something happens - a gun is stolen from Jarrell's desk.
This proves to be more important than it at first seems.The rest of the book is very typical in structure and content to a Nero Wolfe story, including Wolfe and Archie finding ways to corral all the suspects at Wolfe's office in his brownstone so Wolfe can interview them.
Bit of a jumble, with a pretty unlikable cast, but the mystery is interesting and the payoff was clever and surprising.
A typical Wolfe novel, meaning the events of the story just follow upon one another without much impact on the actions or demeanor of the characters.
Then, once everything is rolling along in the wake of a murder investigation, he is as unchanged as Gibraltar, a character of one thought and cartoonish determination.
Now from this novel starting point where Archie is acting largely alone and is living away from the Brownstone, and is acting as an investigator on his own initiative, the plot moves slowly through a few chapters before snapping back into a traditional Wolfe formula in the wake of the murder.
When first the man's loaded gun goes missing and then Archie's predecessor in the job turns up dead, the man is convinced that it is his daughter-in-law's fault, but it is up to Archie and Wolfe to determine whether that is the case or not, all the while keeping Inspector Cramer in the dark about Archie's presence in the house....
One fun element of this series is watching the ways in which Wolfe does his best to avoid doing any actual work, and in this outing he spends considerable time being petulant and peevish, while Archie is left to his own devices until Wolfe finally decides to apply his genius to the case.
Another "Archie has to move to a client's home to do inside investigation story," this has a bit more to it than some of the others in that Wolfe sub-genre, though at times it does suffer from that sub-genre's middle-slowdown pacing.
The "extra" this one has is mostly at the beginning, with the very humorous clash between Archie and Wolfe about Archie even taking the case or not, eventually leading into Wolfe getting dragged further and further into a case he never wanted in the first place.
The case takes menacing and deadly turns, eventually, and Wolfe is dragged fully into it, leaving us guessing the identity of the guilty party (or parties?) more so than usual.
