https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/13454149-barely-breathing
I am very sleep deprived still, having been up all night reading this book. I think I fell asleep around 4am. Sweet Jesus, this book was just as intesnse and emotional for me as the first, love it just as much. The sequel picks up months after Emma's attack from the Evil Bitch from hell "aka" Carol, and Emma has now made the decision to live with her mother Rachel and start over. I was little hesitant on her living with her mother again, but I thought hey it can be a fresh start for both of them
The sequel picks up months after Emma's attack from the Evil Bitch from hell "aka" Carol, and Emma has now made the decision to live with her mother Rachel and start over.
I was little hesitant on her living with her mother again, but I thought hey it can be a fresh start for both of them.
I loved the Emma and Evan moments to the fullest.Sara is still the best friend you could ask for, and I am very glad Emma has her.
God Dammit...I am very happy with this sequel, and cannot wait until the third book Out Of Breath.
I don't think so...more like 5 stars to the power of infinity!!I've been breathing quite nicely since 80 days ago when I finished Reason to Breathe...counting the days for Barely Breathing...hoping Evan went back for that crucial moment and saved Emma.
I will always be here for you Emma"...But I can't like him too much because he ended up being the catalyst for how Barely Breathing ended...Emma sweet sweet Emma..I can't agree with you even though I kind of understand why....Evan you gorgeous boy...my heart is breaking for you....Here are 3 songs that played in my head when reading:1.
i have been waiting for this book once i've finished, reason to breath.I remember finishing it, crying at 2 in the night and running to my laptop to see if this could possibly be the end, i was so glad it wasn't and then i cried some more,,.-))Absolutely loved it, can't wait for the final installment, but please a HEA would be preferable because how much can a person suffer.
Me = Totally Uninformed.The only thing I hated Emma for was perhaps when after a particularly hot and sexy make-out session Evan asks her if she wants to stay over (and I’m hoping I’ll get to see a few more steams or cuddling at least) and she’d say  “I should go home” (and that second I’m tempted to throw my refrigerator on her head!) I swear those simple 4 words - which are spoken about a hundred times a day – killed me of fury then and there.
Rebecca Donovan's famous cliffhanger, the mother of all cliffhangers, gave life and meaning to the phrase, just left hanging.
I mean how can you possibly follow an ending like that without coming up short?
To be left not knowing for a whole year, what an incredible ride.
Those who will read Reason to Breathe with the sequel immediately available will miss out on some of the intensity (even though the wait really did suck), but either way you'll get a great experience and definitely need to read this series.
I can't understand why she kept letting her mother hurt her, why she let herself be used like she did by someone who didn't even care for her.
I understood the denial she was living in, thinking she could get through it on her own, but I didn't understand how she couldn't see that she needed help sooner than she did.
I don't understand how we went from the first book where Emma confides that her friggin' Aunt beats her, to this book where she won't tell anyone her mother is a drunk.
Emma decides early on in the book that she wants to live with her mother Rachel who is currently living in Weslyn.
Jonathan and Emma soon realize they have a few things in common that includes being abused by someone who should love you instead of hurt you and nightmares that haunt them filled with pain.While Emma struggles with her existence/reason for breathing she still has to take care of her drunk mommy, school,sports and her sanity.
I truly loved the first book of this series "Reason to Breathe" and was excited to see this would be a series.
I was anticipating this book to be about overcoming the trauma that was inflicted on Emma and was disapointed to read that she had to deal with more abuse from her family.
As I neared the end of this book, I found myself skipping pages of details that I felt were unnecessary.
Unfortunately, I will probable read the third book just so I know how it ends.
I didn't like a lot of the characters' decisions amd I wanted to throttle or slap nearly everyone at one point or another but dammit I just couldn't stop flipping those pages.
Doesn't that just melt your heart??I absolutely loved seeing Emma and Evan have their moment of peace and happiness towards the end.
Again, like with the first book, despite it being over 500 pages, I actually read it in one sitting due to my inability to stop flipping the pages.I have to say I knew this one was another cliffhanger but I did NOT see the events of this one coming!
What am I going to do with myself until the next book comes out?!I read until 3.40am this morning because I was completely engrossed in this book.I would give it five stars, if it weren't for the fact that I struggled a little with the first 20%...
My heart broke for Evan over and over again, and then for Emma, and then for Jonathan...
and when I thought I knew what I wanted, suddenly I didn't know anymore.
But all I know is that I did not want this ending!
I knew how much Evan loved me.
I mean, why can't they at least be together at the end so that we have a reason to hang on until the third book comes out to see what happens next?
I'm honestly pretty pissed and refuse to finish reading until the third book comes and ONLY if I can confirm that Emma and Evan will have a HEA.
I pride myself in being able to read a novel and get so wrapped up in the characters that I honestly fall in love with the well-written ones (Kellan Kyle, anyone?
So imagine my surprise when I find out they aren't together at the end of the second book.
Acoholism has touched my life throughout my childhood and beyond, so this book hit me where it hurts more than a few times.
With her feeling so isolated and alone and not being able to tell Evan or her friend Sarah any of her problems; it was bound to happen that she would turn to Jonathon-who was a partner to her pain.
I know that Emma loved Evan with all of her heart; but for some reason she just couldn't seem to share her darkest hurts with him.
Evan is a loyal as they come, and he truly loves Emma.
I am anxious to get started on where life is going to take Emma now.
Plus sports and school is still perfect leading a way to a soccer scholarship to Stanford.Emma has A LOT to deal with and she doesn't talk about it to anyone, she keeps it bottled up which leads to nightmares as well as a strain on her relationship with Evan because she doesn't let him in.
The two have a lot in common and become to help each other deal with their past.Finally everything comes out at the end, more secrets get revealed, heartache continues for everyone in the story and Emma is left with some tough decisions, hurting everyone she loves.Can I just say I love Evan?
I would love a friend like that.The book ends with a major cliff hanger.
La autora es capaz de transmitir muy bien lo que sienten los personajes en una historia poderosa y muy emocionante.Sin duda es un buen libro para aquellos que disfrutan de un buen drama porque es muy intenso además de poco predecible e inquietante.La trama y los personajes absorben incluso una vez terminado el libro.
El cliffhanger del final no es tan potente como el del primer libro, pero deja claro que todavía hay mucha más por contar y estoy seguro de que seguirá manteniendo este nivel que a los seguidores de la serie tanto nos gusta.En resumen: una historia desgarradora, muy emocional y altamente adictiva.
*Potential SPOILER*...(view spoiler)[The new characters were really interesting; I really expected that Emma was going to walk in on Evan and Analise together (seeing as Emma was being a pretty crap girlfriend in this book) and then that she'd run off to be with Jonathan.
I felt he was needy and selfish and I'm sad that he dragged Emma so far into his misery - although her decision at the end made sense to me, I still hope the situation with Emma and Evan rectifies itself in book 3!
I couldn't help but wondered why on earth could Emma be so frustrated and helpless all the time?Anyway, all we need to know is that she got over it this time and again, like the previous book, the story contained several violent acts and brutal fights, so for me, the trilogy was age-restricted.
I couldn't say she grew a lot from her past, but at least this time, she dealt with her horrifying situation better.MUCH, MUCH to my disappointment, there was an unwanted love triangle going on and I did not like a thing about it.
Not sure how to review this book... After reading the first book yesterday and this book today I feel like an emotional wreck. It was a great book, but I really hated the ending, knowing there is a third book coming and this is not officially the ending makes me feel a little better
A GUY WHO CONVENIENTLY STAYS UP WITH HER EVERY NIGHT; WHO IS THERE BY ACCIDENT TO SEE HER HALF NAKED AND WHO SHE SEES HALF NAKED A FEW WEEKS LATER; WHO SHE SEES SCREWING HER MOM ON THE COUCH; WHO IS IN THE SAME BATHROOM AS SHE TAKES A SHOWER BECAUSE EVAN AND HER MOM ARE OUTSIDE AND THEY CAN'T SEE THIS PIECE OF SHIT WITH EMMA OR ELSE THEY'D THINK SOMETHING WAS GOING ON BETWEEN THEM (and lmao when everyone else around her -- even girls -- she has a hard time being in even a bathing suit or underwear but now she's suddenly like ok i'll just take a shower then since you won't get the fuck out); THE SAME GUY WHO EMMA CONSTANTLY CALLS IN THE MIDDLE OF THE NIGHT TO GET SOME CLOSENESS FROM A GUY WHO HAS NIGHTMARES BUT AT THE SAME TIME SHE DOESN'T GIVE A SHIT ABOUT HOW HER DEATH EXPERIENCE AFFECTED HER CONCERNED BOYFRIEND (WHO, BY THE WAY, TURNS OUT, HAS NIGHTMARES TOO BUT GOD FORBID EMMA ACTUALLY CARES ABOUT THAT IN THIS BOOK BECAUSE SHE DOESN'T KNOW SINCE SHE NEVER FUCKING ASKS) OR HER BEST FRIEND.
Rebecca Donovan played with my emotions like I was ivory and she was Chopin.Barely Breathing was raw, heartbreaking and frankly, I was just waiting for Emma to completely lose it through a good portion of the book.
Since Emma is prone to make choices based on what will make others happy, she often does things she shouldn’t to keep the peace with her mom and it ends up taking a little more of Emma’s breath until she is now barely breathing.I am very anxious to get my hands on Out of Breath which is the third and final book of this series.
Evan is still right besides her, being the amazing supporting person that he is.
She makes the decision to move in with her Mum Rachel to try and fix that relationship.
Enter Rachel's new boyfriend Jonathon.
Rachel thinks he's 28 when he is really 24.
Emily can't talk to anyone else about it as they wouldn't understand what she's going through would they?
.................That's all I'm going to say as I don't want to ruin it for anyone.
I really liked the last 1% where it was Evan's POV.
WHAT THE HELL IS GOING TO HAPPEN TO EM AND EVAN?!
3.5 -4 sterne :)
Emma's entire world shifted at the end of book one.
But in reality Emma never escapes.
But Emma is still that girl that tries to push it all down.
In Emma's attempts as fixing herself and trying to fix the broken pieces of her past, before the abuse, she is forced to see the reality of what led her to that house.
I think I went through every emotion while reading this book and although I have the third book just sitting a few feet away, I don't think that I will have closure from this series for some time.
why?*Emma is supposed to be this rational smart girl that thought things through, I don't know what seemed rational about agreeing to moving in with her mother just like that when she didn't want anything to do with her, but she got what she deserved(view spoiler)[her mother was still a drunk, what a surprise (hide spoiler)]*Jonathan...I hated everything about him(view spoiler)[dating a woman then falling in love with her daughter ummm...
(hide spoiler)] he was a total creep in my opinion and stalkerish and so so so gross (see spoiler)*Emma hanging out with Jonathan because he understands her, because they know what the other feels.
I’ll just do a quick breakdown of the three characters who stole the show.Emma: Still emotionally scarred, terrified to reveal her dark thoughts to Evan and so starts to rely on Jonathan.
His past is not only painful, it’s dark, gritty, and raw, and it’s like a Kristen Ashley character dropped into this book.
On one hand, I despised him for the threat he presented to Emma and Evan, but…I could really see how deeply wounded he was, burned from old love and scarred by his horrific past, and I wanted him to find his HEA so badly.
Well....I was so excited for this book to come out. I LOVED It and read it in one day. I was really hoping though that Emma and Evan could have developed more of a relationship than they did in this book and I am praying that book three will dive head first into their love story. I need me some Evan and Emma LOVE!!! :) the book was great but I need more!!!! The reason for the 4 star rating instead of five is because I want more Emma and Evan!!! Ps I hate the Jonathan character. Creep.
4 stars
ok so while u r wollowing in the raw after glow of this amazing book & cant get ur thoughts together i want u to start thinking about that last part & the situation they find them selves in....what does this mean we get in the next book ????.....think ppl ...2 different POV's mayb ....ohhhh to be in his head could u just freakin imagine !!!!!!!!!!!!!ok i got to go ready something fluffy or full of smutt to get my self together lol ....who am i kidding its going to take a miracle to get over this !!!!i just luv this book !!!now go put on ur big-girl panties & read this book !!!!!!!!!!rock on bitches !!!
4.5 STARSThis is probably the most depressing book, i have ever read in my life. When you read this, it's like you can :  feel  the pain, and all the sadness, all those emotions are just pouring out of the pages. This is how I pictured the main protagonist, Emma" And this is how i kinda pictured Ethan, delete the tiny beard though." Barely Breathing is the second book in the heartbreaking Breathing trilogy, by Rebecca Donovan. May i just say, this is absolutely MASSIVE, it's the biggest book i e
This is how I pictured the main protagonist, Emma" And this is how i kinda pictured Ethan, delete the tiny beard though." Barely Breathing is the second book in the heartbreaking Breathing trilogy, by Rebecca Donovan.
To sum it up, in the simple but really bad way, it's about her tragic life, and what she is going through.To those of you who haven't read book one, it has first love in it, drama, romance, friendship stuff, and it has some serious abuse.
I honestly thought that Barely Breathing was the last novel in this series.
I really expected Barely Breathing to be the lighter, happier conclusion to the crazy, intense story that began this series.
I don't think Emma made one good decision in this entire freaking novel, and all of her poor decision, kept me from the ending that I wanted.
So to be honest, I am really mad at Emma right now!The part of me that was looking for closure and immediate gratification was extremely disappointed with this novel.
I gave Barely Breathing (The Breathing Series #2) by Rebecca Donovan 4 STARS (3.5 STARS).
Like when Evan left to California or whatever again because him and Emma were going through some things I'd love to be in his head at that moment.
Now I like Jonathan and I get why he'd think he loves Emma because they understand each others darkness, the part of themselves they don't want anyone to know about.
Urrrrgghhhh.Evan's annoying-ness : Him keeping Analise as a friend when he definitely knows she really likes him.
Neither did Evan until Emma finally confronted him about her and her damn annoying clingy-ness.
