https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/242795.The_Sentinel
What secrets is the building hiding?Some books stand the test of time.
The Sentinel is one of the second type.The setup for this book has a lot of potential.
Too bad the rest of the book doesn't come close to living up to the potential of the setup.From the beginning, I wanted to be interested but I didn't care about any of the characters enough to be invested in the story.
The blind priest was the most interesting part of the book but not enough to save it.As I said before, the book is a product of the time it was written.
I love a good horror read!
So he gave me a copy and I read it.
An easy read for a scary weekend...
Then I read The Guardian, which I enjoyed even more...
We've been married for 14 years and I found it on the back shelf recently.
Also, I found another completed book on the shelf!
He's taken that one off the shelf and has been inspired to write...
after all these years!
Hopefully he will start on the 3rd part of The Sentinel after the historical fiction!
So, hopefully the third part of The Sentinel will be out within the next year or so!!
This was a very entertaining and addictive read. It was mysterious. I didn't know what was going on til the very end. Halfway through it became sort of a whodunit, but I wasn't disappointed because it still kept its horror aspect. The ending was surprising and had some very interesting elements that tied it all in dealing with religious themes. I also had no idea that its a movie, so can't wait to ser it someday. Recommend strongly.
Well... this book was ok. Allison got on my nerves sometimes but not so much that I hated her or couldn't finish the book. The story was very interesting. I never saw that ending coming!
Genre: Horror FictionPublisher: Ballantine Books Pub. Year: 1974My Halloween book for 2018 was written in 1974 by Jeffrey Konvitz. I read this book the year after I graduated high school (dating myself) and I remember it scaring the "bejesus" out of me. I was wondering if it still could. It did, but with noticeable flaws. As a teen in 1968, I read “Rosemary's Baby.” And in 1973, I read “The Exorcist.” Both books better stand the test of time than this one did. I can see what attracted me back th
I read this book the year after I graduated high school (dating myself) and I remember it scaring the "bejesus" out of me.
As a teen in 1968, I read “Rosemary's Baby.” And in 1973, I read “The Exorcist.” Both books better stand the test of time than this one did.
I can’t say anymore about him or it would be a spoiler.So why didn’t this book stand the test of time?
According to the March 2007 "Time" edition "the Bible has done more to shape literature, history, entertainment, and culture than any book ever written.
this 1974 paperback is in my hands now, it looks like a quire of toilet roll, and it has no backflap, which means that this book is assless to meanyway, what else can i request? it's a modern horror classic, and it's an antique for me, so lucky to possess itbut, what the actual fakk!
Horror Classics Book ReviewTHE SENTINELBy Jeffrey Konvitz(Original publication date: 1974) My suspicion is that there was a different expectation from horror in the 1970s. “The Sentinel” is not as horrific as one might expect from, what is considered, a classic horror work from the early boom of the genre. In 1974, Ira Levin and William Peter Blatty were the leaders of the burgeoning genre, and King had yet to become a household name. Most people didn’t know the difference between a well-written
Horror Classics Book ReviewTHE SENTINELBy Jeffrey Konvitz(Original publication date: 1974)	My suspicion is that there was a different expectation from horror in the 1970s.
“The Sentinel” is not as horrific as one might expect from, what is considered, a classic horror work from the early boom of the genre.
Konvitz took one of the most identifiable tropes of gothic horror (lone female moves into place with mysterious past) and used it to create an admixture of old and new.
Sadly, it doesn’t always work, but “The Sentinel” still remains a brick in the wall of the genre.--Nickolas Cook04/26/06
Review: THE SENTINEL by Jeffrey KonvitzOriginally published in 1974, and later adapted as film, THE SENTINEL relates the tragic tale of model Allison Parker, an Indiana native living the dream in Manhattan. The death by terminal illness of her long-estranged father should finally free her from the traumatic chains of her past. Certainly, the serendipity of discovering an affordable renovated brownstone apartment is an external indicator of her new good fortune. But "too good to be true" often has a gritty underside. How could psychologically disordered naif Allison expect that the brownstone is a virtual portal to hell?
It's like the author realized this and had to stick in lines like "You know I love you, right?" to let us know they were not supposed to hate each other.Then you find out that Michael was married when he and Allison started dating (UGH!) and when his wife decided she wanted a divorce, Michael either outright killed her or drove her to suicide.
So at this point I decide I don't even like these characters, but nothing has happened yet to make this a novel of the horror genre, so I keep reading.
Really it seems like the scariest things that happen in this book are Allison's hallucinations.
Not here, though.I want to address a few other reviewers that had issue with the lesbian couple being referred to as "perverts".
Great book, it has this sinister sense of foreboding the whole way through that makes it more and more suspenseful. Anyone who likes   or   would definitely love this one.
Are Strange things happening? Or are those hallucinations? Is it god or the devil? Suspense! Horror! I loved the book and I love the movie! Totally scary!
Of course the book is dated and not just because of cell phones: the very mention of "lesbians" is supposed to send a chill up my spine apparently, and I'm supposed to think it's normal for them to be excessively perverted and aggressive, and I should expect cosmopolitan New Yorkers to go on and on about how it's normal behavior for "dykes." Yeah, dated.What's fun about this one, against the author's grain, is that, unlike in The Exorcist and The Omen, the forces of Hell don't seem all that bad (they seem to be having a damned good time) and really God seems like a jerk.
I enjoy scary books, but add Satan and a priest and I can't put them down.
Rosemary's new husband is an overly-ambitious actor, and Allison's long-time boyfriend is an overly ambitious lawyer.
Didn't you read Rosemary's Baby?" Although the plots diverge from there, this initial tension pervades both books.The basic conflict that makes this genre work is that the very fantastic stories we learned in church seem irrelevant in the world outside.
I enjoyed the story, but it lacked the allegorical morality of the Exorcist or the freshness of Rosemary's Baby, and depended more on over-the-top supernatural phenomenon.
campy yet creepy story about who guards the gates of Hell; better than the movie which was actually pretty decent(with Christina Raines). Proves the gates of Hell really are in Brooklyn, which I've suspected all along, having grown up in Manhattan.
Oh boy, old fashioned horror stuff going on here!
I give a lot of leeway to 1970's horror novels.
Generally they're not going to have the pace of modern horror novels.
Even the saturation of 80's horror paperbacks that hit the bookstores make these older novels seem like silent movies in comparison.
Her boyfriend, Michael Farmer, is a lawyer, of course, and pretty much a jerk.
You might ask yourself, why is she going with such an obvious jerk, then determine that they probably deserve each other.
And you read it for the horror stuff you've been promised on the blurb.

A lot more intriguing than I thought it would be, though a little heavy-handed in the end. It did, however, rise above my expectations. Will be fun to talk about on Horror 101....
This review may contain spoilers, but since the book is 42 years old the cat is surely out of the bag and long dead by now.The Sentinel is a very mediocre horror story and I think I was a little too generous with my original rating of three stars so I had to knock one of them off because I'm not a very generous person by nature.
This is how basic and bland Alison is, I can only picture her modeling for the Sunday flyers and the Sears and JC Penney catalogs, but according to the Catholic church she's such a horrible sinner that her only chance for redemption is to serve as the new sentinel as penance when the blind old priest upstairs finishes his.
"The Sentinel" is another "the devil in New York" story like "Rosemary's Baby", full of shallow people living hedonistic lives suddenly finding out that the world is a lot deeper than they ever imagined....Allison Parker is a pretty young model dating a successful criminal defense attorney.
She finds a place she likes a lot, although her bunch of weird neighbours includes a mysterious old priest who lives as a recluse on the top floor.
Female characters in their mid to late 30s are referred to as "girls" violence against lesbians is seen as funny, and there are a few references to Allison being "frigid".
Excellent classic horror. Believable characters, well paced plot, and wonderfully suspenseful. The only thing keeping this from being a 5 star is the big reveal. There was just too much exposition there for my liking. I wish that had been dealt with differently. But the ending itself was satisfying. So much so, in fact, that I'm really looking forward to checking out the sequel, The Guardian. If you like horror (especially classic horror), suspense, urban mysteries, etc, check this one out!**I received this copy via NetGalley in exchange for an honest review**
It’s not that difficult to go astray with horror.
There’s such a fine line between it and parody, an author must make sure that he doesn’t cross it.
One way to cross that line is to people your story with caricatures.
Like a cigar-chopping cop who wears a fedora.
Or giving the heroine a lover who you can’t imagine why she’s with him.
Of course, lots of her actions are totally inexplicable.
But then, so is she as a character.
To the point where I didn’t really care what happened to her.
But it could have made such a good story.
This is a classic horror that I missed out on the first time around because I never knew it was a book. I remember seeing the movie when I was a kid or bits of it anyway but I didn't realize it was adapted from a book.A model with a dark past moves into a great apartment with affordable rent. All is well until she meets her neighbors!Some of the language is a bit dated but the story itself stands up to the test of time.I would rate it 4 of 5 stars.I received a complimentary copy for review.
I have had this book since 1977 and had never read it. Because it was recommended to me by goodreads I decided to give it a go. It was a fairly usual sort of horror of its time, nasty goings on in an old building, evil spirits trying to prevent the survival of 'The Sentinel'. There was one part that made me feel uncomfortable because it seem that a sex scene had just been put in for titillation. For me it was a bit over the top and unnecessary. Other than that a run of the mill horror.
A quick read. Like a lot of people, I remember the movie as something scary at the time that hasn't held up as well as some of it's contemporaries. The book filled in a few gaps that the movie left open. I enjoyed it, but could have done without the detective sub-plot. Creepy at times, but not anything that would make me want to leave the lights on. Still, I'd recommend it. Probably more effective if you haven't seen the film.
Classic 70s horror from that era when the Devil and all things underworld was the rage. Decent writing and spooky scenarios kept me turning the pages quicker than expected. Not as creepy as The Exorcist, but worth the ride.
"Black and white cat! Black and white cake!"
One of the scariest I've ever read.
One of my all time favorite scary stories about a blind priest guarding the entrance to hell.
The Sentinel is very much a book 'of it's time'.
Take one half Rosemary's Baby, one half The Exorcist, and sprinkle over a little Amityville horror.
That might not be a disaster if the story here was a little more gripping.
There are plenty of little flashes of dread and horror, but it never coalesces into anything new or vital.The Sentinel isn't terribly written, or poorly concieved, it's just extremely flat throughout.
There is a good book in here somewhere, but the execution just isn't strong enough.
Allison, the protagonist, is a wealthy, successful, attractive model.
Her boyfriend is a wealthy, successful, attractive Wall Street type.
Through no fault of the author's, obviously, the book is quite dated.
I actually enjoyed reading how things have changed since the 70's and having grown up in the 70's, it was nostalgic for me to revisit the simplicity of that era.
There were a few simple grammatical mistakes here and there, but nothing to get hung up over.
I felt like the ending of the book was rushed and left unfinished.
The epilogue gives us a tiny bit of insight into what happened, but I would have liked to have read it for myself.
