https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/20951599-the-confessions-of-saint-augustine
Not an easy read, but well worth grappling with, for the beauty of the language, if nothing else.
In the first half of the book, Augustine describes in detail the intellectual, spiritual, and emotional struggles he went through until, at 32, he converted to Catholic Christianity, as he calls it.
The second half is an extraordinary series of meditations on the nature of God and the Trinity.
It's often difficult to follow Augustine's incredibly analytical reasoning, in which he covers a range of subjects, including memory, time, linguistic meaning, and love.
In a word, the man was brilliant, with a mind like Einstein's.
Going back to college in a very Catholic city I am often running into the unusual fellows with white squares in their collars. Being a rather curious person, and not at all Catholic, I began wondering what all this was about. Surprisingly introspective on the ideas of morality. As someone who used to study criminology I often wondered about the reasoning behind the Catholic view of morality. In-depth, it provides a sense of morality in which I don't always relate too, but I am beginning to understand.
I have heard Augustine quotes for many years and finally decided to read this one. It was difficult for me, but I got through most of it and I am going to count it as read. I used a guide by Ryken to help. May try a different translation next time.
Not an "easy read," but worth it. One of those books you can read over and over again and still get a new perspective. So much encouragement in Augustine's example for Catholics trying to live their fast despite their past and current temptations and sin. Catholic or not, I recommend.
I started this twice before finishing it. I was a little daunted by the language (translated from Latin) but his teachings were important and his journey interesting.
Augustine's insights into human nature are incisive and relevant for the contemporary reader.
He says very little about Christ's death and its relation to the forgiveness of sins as a free gift, but makes much about the power of God to enable you to serve Him. I am not doubting whether Augustine was Christian.
Many Christians began this way, and came to a greater understanding later.
The Confessions will not take you that far, but it will give you brilliant and timeless insights into the depravity and helplessness of man, and man's need to depend entirely on God.
Confessions of St. Augustine was written in the late 4th century. It is considered a spiritual classic. Although a tough read because the style is not in a format that we are used to, it does contain some interesting insights and ideas.
A bit difficult to get through, especially for those unaccustomed to King James English, but well worth the attempt. Beautiful depth and perception. My list of quotes kept growing and growing.
Didn't finish, but had to return it. Beautiful of what i got to read.
I'm not sure which version I read, but I know it was published before 1975. Read for Faith and Doubt class for Dr. Stuart Ryder.
