https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1138543.The_Strange_Death_of_Liberal_England
One of the most enjoyable and fun works of history I've ever encountered.
If you ever wish to try to make sense of Victorian/Edwardian England, here is the book for you.
Its beyond grasping how Dangerfield presents such a mastery of his topic with such authority.
Instructive and sagacious in large, heaping measure.What kind of research must he have undertaken?
What kind of journalism?
There are choice sentences and gleaming pearls-of-phrase in this work which will thrill you.
You know..this is the way books all used to be written.
This was what all authors used to pursue as their style.
I'm just gaga for that kind of thing.This is an elegant book, for sure.
The only problem was, as it is with a lot of history books for me, that I kind of had to take his word on the people he references.
But....I gotta say it really took me out of the book and I can't honestly give it more stars since it became rather dense and confusing for me as reading experience.
I'm not worthy to take in its wisdom, surely, but it really was beautifully written and I'd like to actually read it again but all the editions are rare...NYRB, get on this!
Today we know it for what it was; but there are moments, very human moments, when we could almost find it in our hearts to envy those who saw it, and who never lived to see the new world.” The italics are mine; as dated as this view is, this is what I think of when I think of England and English history...the beauty and quiet of an unchanging England.
What, for example, does this mean:"To reduce the Liberal Party to a definition would be like attempting to reduce the glandular contours of a circus Fat Lady by simply talking her thin."For the sudden loss of prosperity of England's lower classes, he blames the "new financier, the new plutocrat [with] little of the responsibility which once had sanctioned the power of England's landed classes." In truth, the issue was the gold standard, which, since the discovery of South African gold, subjected the Pound to fantastic price inflation.The writing does improve in the second half, e.g.:"The instinct of the British worker was very active in 1910.
Wonderful under rated classic. It was ignored when it appeared in the 1930s because the author had moved to America and became a magazine editor. He was not an academic and he was very dismissive of standard English mythology. The volume is brilliant. It is a masterpiece of acerbic wit and historical analysis. His weaving together of the strands of labor, feminism and Ireland are nothing less than astonishing. It is so well written that academic historians immediately suspect the author of laxity or insufficient research. This is truly how history should be written.
This book moved between a three and a four. I think his writerly ways did not always make for clarity of content. I really liked his chapter on the suffragists and I learned a lot from his discussion of the worker's movements, especially the miners. His political section with its discussion of unionism was the weakest, at least for me. I had a hard time following it and while some of it was due to my own lack of knowledge, some was definitely a kind of writerly fog.
My favorite book...ever.
By the time the Liberals had been shredded by militant unions, suffragettes, Irish nationalists, the rise of militants, the Great War and the nation state, it became clear that the fruits of Queen Victoria had been maggotted by the worms of extremism, never to ripen cleanly again.Dangerfield’s book is audacious in selecting key exhibits and presenting them in support of his thesis, bolstered by keen common sense and robust, limpid prose.
Liberal values of free trade, world peace and evolutionary reform could never compete with the coming firestorm, leaving it in ashes.
However, the book is not a straight-line "A caused B" account of events; rather, Dangerfield wants to give the mood of the period, and capture some of how people felt and talked.
I much appreciated this.
I also enjoyed that the book was written in 1935.
Winston Churchill appears prominently (he was a senior cabinet member, and was even Home Secretary for a while) -- but he appears as "eccentric politico", not as savior of his country.
This book is outdated and reflects the misogyny and prejudices of an era that, though nearly a century in the past, continues to inflict pain on our own time.
Read this with a critical eye and more than a grain--perhaps an entire ocean--full of salt.
Published just eight years after women were finally granted universal suffrage, Dangerfield's bitter bias is hard to miss.
If you're looking for a comprehensive overview of Liberal England, this is NOT the book to read.
If you're looking for insight into the glaring biases of white male privilege in the 19th and 20th century, read on.
Now I know that experts in the field (or indeed well informed laymen) have issues with some of Dangerfield's conclusions. As indeed do I - some of them seem a little too full of mid-20th Century psychology to be reliable. But that (which can be rectified by wider reading) fades away when one considers that this is history as it SHOULD be written: with narrative flow and beautiful prose. We don't write non-fiction books like this any more, and that is a crying shame.
Absolutely fantastic history book focussed, detailed, witty and sarcastic. This is history at its best as Dangerfield elegantly unpicks the various forces that unwound Liberalism's moment of triumph. A gripping account of the divergent forces within Edwardian Liberalism and how social change can fundamentally change politics.
wow--this is history written as literature--An amazing book on the pre-World War I era in Britain.
An astonishing achievement in historiography
This isn't a 'fun' read. It's a fulfilling one though if you're interested in the topic.
There is much to recommend this beautifully written book about the Edwardian period in England - leading up to the War. Opinionated histories written by conservatives - true conservatives - are rare.
And Dangerfield takes a great romping, literate, malicious, very humorous delight in showing how that world of assumptions/ambitions crashed due to wildly emotional, irrational and rebellious movements that the very optimism of the Liberal perspective had aroused.
Then Dangerfield turns to the movements of the unprivileged - the suffragettes, organized labour, and the Irish - each of which rose in utter uncompromising ferocity with their own demands, and yet worse for the Liberal government, their own extreme actions.
So to put it neatly, the argument has been that the First World War destroyed the peaceful and harmonious world that existed in England and the Empire generally before it occurred.This book argues effectively that the Great Britain and the British Empire's entry into the First World War was partly due to the fact it was lead by a dying and unworkable political order.
It was on the edge of civil war and revolution and it had both an outdated economic system as well as a political order unable and unwilling to embrace necessary change.
The order that could have kept the country out of the war had vanished and could no more prevent itself from embracing disaster than it could continue as it was.
This is an exciting read, written with energy and humor, about a crazy time in UK politics, when the ruling Liberal Party muddled through four significant crises of which three had significant constitutional implications -- women's suffrage, the Irish push for Home Rule with the resulting army mutiny and stripping of power from the House of Lords (so I'm counting it as two crises), and the wave of strikes that swept the country.
The author doesn't rate any Labour party leaders particularly highly, and yet by the time the dust had settled after the war Labour had solidly taken over from the Liberals as the party that the Conservatives traded turns in power with.
Writing in 1935, he portrays a Liberal elite, led by Asquith, Churchill and Lloyd George, assailed on all sides by three revolutionary forces - the Ulster Unionists, the suffragettes, and the trade unions.
And, as Dangerfield describes, there was such a gulf in understanding between the governing elite and the union leaders that the Prime Minister, Asquith, was memorably reduced to tears, weeping openly in the middle of a speech in the House of Commons about labour relations.
What would have happened in England, if the war had not come, as it did suddenly changing everything, uniting these three groups - Ulstermen, suffragettes and trade unionists - in support of war against Germany?
Dangerfield’s monumental account of the decline of the Liberal Party in England achieves success, as much for the content as for his entertaining style of writing.
In this way, the book argues that between 1910-1914 Tories, women, and workers helped to put an end to the Liberal party and many of its ideas leaving England in a confused and divided state as the country marched into the Great War.
Also, the book does not focus strongly on its argument and appears more as a work of entertainment rather than a scholarly work through the author’s writing style.
The writing in The Strange Death of Liberal England, by George Dangerfield, is exquisite, and the events and personalities are compelling.
Dangerfield writes about the years 1910 to 1914, when the Liberal Party governed England.
The book begins with the death of Edward VII -- and with him the Edwardian period -- and the accession of George V (grandfather of the current Queen Elizabeth).
I nearly gave this book a 3 instead of 4 stars.
First off, it's important to understand that contrary to the title, Dangerfield is interested in the decline of the Liberal Party, not liberalism.
Nonetheless, here's why I gave it 4 stars instead of 3.
This book was written in 1935.
I can only imagine with the rise of Fascism and Communism surrounding these years, liberalism in general did appear in decline, perhaps it was.
Although I don't feel competent in critiquing the thesis of the book, it deserves much credit for its clarity and flowing prose.
Dangerfield's style is elaborate and yet jocular throughout.
Never have I come across an author as capable of balancing the delicate tedium of political discussion with the colorful prose of truly great writing. Dangerfield triumphantly succeeds in not only enlightening the reader about the troubles which faced England in the years leading up to World War I, but also in providing a narrative which makes it enormously difficult for the reader to turn away from this book. Dangerfield's understanding of the characters involved in this history and his ability to truly grasp the feelings of the age are arguably unparalleled in the realm of political history.
Assigned in a graduate history class on twentieth-century England, I recently reread this political science study of the period just before WWI...1910 to 1914. Laborites, Suffragists, Irish militants come together to rock the Liberal political establishment in England. Much that was true then is true today in politically divided Britain and US politics. Well written by a witness to those years ( 1936) if a bit verbose at times. Bogs down a bit in the labor section, but the book picks up again in the chapters explaining the lead up to the Great War.
Dangerfield explains what happens when forces overwhelm fondly held principles. One either dies in a ditch or one finds ways to adapt. Often those adaptations are unsatisfactory and unsustainable.Fanatics gain energy from the uncertainty of the orthodox. The orthodox seek solace in denial.For citizens of western democracies, this book now (2011) speaks more to their condition than any time since it was published midway through the Devil's Decade.
This was essential to my understanding of modern British history. Why I ever thought that would be important in my life seems a gallimaufry of misguided intentions, yet I actually enjoyed reading about it at the time. I know more about the 19th century politics in england than i will ever know about those of my own country.
I had to read this for a class, blew it off and then changed my mind and read it intensively a few days before the final. I didn't quite finish but I was so invested in that I finished it after I graduated. It's a complex and riveting account of the political sphere of turn of the century England.
This is too much like a text book for my taste. The focus of this book is extremely narrow. It's probably only for someone studying this period in English history.
How did the dominate Liberal Party die in England? How did Edwardian England die?This book answers these questions and more.
Slow
