https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1802466.A_Question_of_Proof
”I think I know who the murderer is. But I doubt if I can ever prove it. A question of proof--that a good title for a detective story, if you ever write one--and I’ve not got enough proof to fill an acorn.” Nigel Strangeways or Cecil Day-Lewis?Nigel Strangeways has been summoned by his friend Michael Evans to a small preparatory school to sort out the rather sordid strangling of one of the students. The student is the obnoxious nephew of the headmaster Reverend Percival Vale and due to the unple
Nigel Strangeways or Cecil Day-Lewis?Nigel Strangeways has been summoned by his friend Michael Evans to a small preparatory school to sort out the rather sordid strangling of one of the students.
He wrote this book because he needed to fix a leaky roof and 1935 was part of the golden age of British detective fiction.
Jill’s father Michael Balcon, the famous British film producer, cut her off without a cent when he found out about her relationship with Day-Lewis.
The situation between Michael Evans and Hero Vale in this story were, I’m sure, based on the personal experiences of the author.
I’m sure Cecil Day Lewis was very charming.
This is the first Nigel Strangeways mystery by the late English Poet Laureate Nicholas Blake (Cecil Day-Lewis).
Set in a 1935 prep school, this is a very interesting read and very much a Golden Age mystery novel.
When the Headmaster's obnoxious nephew is killed Nigel's friend, a teacher at the school who has been having an affair with the Head's wife, is suspected of the murder.
He calls in his friend, Nigel Strangeways, a Private Inquiry Agent and nephew of the Assistant Commissioner.Cecil Day-Lewis worked in a prep school and this shows in his attention to detail and intimacy with the staff room.
Description: The faculty and student body at Sudeley are shocked but scarcely saddened when the headmaster’s obnoxious nephew, Algernon Wyvern-Wemyss, is found dead in a haystack on Sports Day. But when the young English master, Michael Evans, becomes a suspect in the case, he’s greatly relieved when his clever friend Nigel Strangeways, who is beginning to make a name for himself as a private inquiry agent, shows up to lend a hand to the local constabulary.
I wanted to sample something from the man who unceremoniously dumped Rosamund Lehmann and this is what I ended up with, a somewhat run of the mill whodunnit where the reading public is introduced to a new on-paper sleuth: Nigel Strangeways.
What is the motive?The local inspector is a little thick (they often are in classic detective stories.) So the accused man sends for his college friend, Nigel Strangeways, an eccentric based on W H Auden, though only in this first book of the series.
Although our hero knows who did the murders he has no proof and has to scramble to find something that will hold up in court in order to save his friend and the woman he loves.Delightful start to a series.Note 9/2013: I have decided to read all of the Strangeways mysteries in the next year or so and went back to re-read this first book as part of that project.
This 1938 mystery, set in an English boys' school, introduces Nigel Strangeways. I had a fun afternoon reading this and could not figure out who the murderer was or what the motive was. I even went back to earlier parts and reread them looking for clues that Strangeways says are there.I look forward to reading some more of this series, especially since I own some :)
DNF at page 66.The language is to hard to get through and it takes forever for me to read a few pages. Also, there are so many characters that it's hard to keep track of them. Finally, the main investigator Nigel Strangeways still hasn't showed up. So, I am done!
After reaching the end of book one, I've decided it was a little toooo old fashioned for me to continue with the series, that said, I enjoyed this cozy mystery read. Old fashioned it may be, but sometimes that's all I need; spending a few calm hours where my mind isn't expected to work too hard is a pleasure. I've heard there are 19 in this series.
I do love me a good academic mystery.A Question of Proof is the first mystery in Blake's (aka Cecil Day-Lewis, England's Poet Laureate from 1968-72) series starring the charming and erudite Nigel Strangeways.
The police soon focus their suspicions on Strangeways' friend Michael Evans, a schoolmaster who happens to be in love with the headmaster's wife....and who coincidentally met his love earlier that day in that same haystack.
When the headmaster himself is stabbed and the police decide to arrest their favorite suspects (Evans and the wife), Strangeways puts together a reenactment of the crime and brings down the final curtain.This was a very nicely done first mystery.

Rather pedestrian schoolyard murder mystery...
A Question of Proof is a quintessential Golden Age mystery complete with boys' boarding school, upper class eccentric detective, man torn between love and honor, and pivotal cricket match.
(Blake was actually Cecil Day-Lewis, who went on to be British Poet Laureate.) Blake has some perceptive observations, including distinguishing Superintendent Armstrong as a masterful tactician, but a bad strategist and exploring the natural leadership qualities of Stevens, one of the boys at the school.
There's also a well-done comic set piece where Strangeways has to join a boys secret society by accomplishing a series of quaint pranks, such as drawing a mustache on a statue with chalk.
Despite what Nigel Strangeways says, this is not a good name for a mystery. But as a mystery, it's OK, though Nigel holds back info so that one more person dies. This is early, breezy Nigel, and the story moves quickly and keeps one guessing. Psychology and understanding of women both suspect, but still.Better titles (and books): The Beast Must Die, Head of a Traveler, The Smiler With the Knife.
Interesting for its historic significance as written by Cecil Day-Lewis as Nicholas Blake, and that he introduces us to Nigel Strangeways, but not a great book. I like the next one better.
I must assume that the writing was lucrative or enjoyable, or maybe even both, as he went on to write another nineteen over a period of more than thirty years.And that first book was entitled “A Question of Proof”, allowing me to use the potentially tricky letter Q in my Crime Fiction Alphabet to see just what a former Poet Laureate might have brought to the golden age of crime writing.Of course he brought lovely writing, and he also brought a nice little mystery.
The book is a Golden Age ‘puzzle’ mystery.Plot summary:In an English preparatory school in 1935, a schoolboy - the headmaster’s orphaned nephew - is murdered and the police are flummoxed.
Then Nigel Strangeways, nephew to the Assistant Commissioner at Scotland Yard, is called in to help by his friend Michael Evans, a Master at the school who is having an affair with the headmaster’s wife, Hero.
Great scene setting in the common room of Sudeley Hall preparatory school where all the main participants are introduced.
Thereafter it is dramatic action with one of the pupils found strangled in a haycastle.
But not just any haycastle, one used by two of the protaginists for a secret assignment.The police begin investigating and it is soon obvious that they need some other brain to assist their investigations.
And Nigel Strangeways is called in.The action races along in this beautifully written thriller and when another murder takes place, the police are at their wit's ends.
But not Strangeways.
a fresh pot of tea is called for!
The first of the Nigel Strangeways mysteries by Nicholas Blake (actually C.
Day-Lewis).
It was written in 1935, is set in a boys' school (such as Day-Lewis actually taught in at the time), and shows its age; but there is a lot of pleasure in seeing what kinds of behavior were considered natural, and what kinds needed explaining nearly 80 years ago.
The mystery is a first-rate puzzle, and the logic of the sleuth is (as far as I can tell) impeccable.
If you're in the mood for some golden-age British boy's school murder, you could do worse than this Nigel Strangeways mystery. Some fancy-pants writing (Nicholas Blake was the pseudonym of poet laureate Cecil Day-Lewis, Daniel Day-Lewis' papa), a heap of period charm, a good twisty whodunnit, and a lot of tea drinking, oh and a game called "chubb chubb" - maybe could've done with more female characters, but I'd defo read more in this series. Forgettable but cute.
An entertaining book. The author, who was C. Day Lewis, Poet Laureate of Britain and father of the incredibly handsome Daniel Day-Lewis, wrote a series of detective novels with Nicholas Strangeways as the lead. This book is the first of the series. The writing is far superior to that in Georgette Heyers' contemporaneous books, but without as much silly fun. Worth a look for mystery fans seeking something new.
'The faculty and student body at Sudeley are shocked but scarcely saddened when the headmaster’s obnoxious nephew, Algernon Wyvern-Wemyss, is found dead in a haystack on Sports Day. But when the young English master, Michael Evans, becomes a suspect in the case, he’s greatly relieved when his clever friend Nigel Strangeways, who is beginning to make a name for himself as a private inquiry agent, shows up to lend a hand to the local constabulary.
Superintendent Armstrong suspects Michael Evans, one of the masters, who has been conducting a secret romance with the headmaster's wife, but Evans calls in his friend, private investigator Nigel Strangeways, to investigate on behalf of the school, and to clear his name.A great example of the classic Golden Age mystery with its varied cast of characters, clever plotting and sprinkling of red herrings.
The setting of the prep school with pompous headmaster, rowdy classrooms and cricket matches is vividly brought to life, and there are some sparkling interchanges between Strangeways and the boys which made me laugh out loud.
Overall, though, this was a really enjoyable and satisfying mystery with a few surprises and a charming protagonist in Strangeways.
Esta es la primera novela policial de Nicholas Blake, publicada en 1935, y la primera donde presenta a su detective Nigel Strangeways.
Ante la casi inexistencia de evidencias materiales, el detective va reconstruyendo en su mente cómo pudo cometerse el crimen y quién pudo ser el asesino, basándose más que nada en la psicología de los personajes, hasta que , al final, logra dar con el culpable.Es una obra muy entretenida, de esas que se leen sin parar, con una buena dosis de suspenso, y una narración plena de ironías y sentido del humor.
especialmente en la forma en que describe la vida escolar y las vivencias de los protagonistas.
This entertaining mystery was first published in the 1930s. I liked several things about it - the boy's school environment, especially some of the boys, the omniscient narrator (a method that isn't popular nowadays but which can be a lot of fun), the main character, Nigel Strangeways, the literary references (many of which I can't identify without looking them up -- and there are probably many I don't even recognize as references), and of course the clues and the solution. I have been reading a lot of vintage mystery lately, and this series is one of my favorites.
Very run of the mill, okay as a light read but nothing more. A sort of poor man's Albert Campion detective, no depth in the characters and not very puzzling. Poof... It would make undemanding TV. Amazed at how little the murder of a child mattered, he was something like 13 and just another body! Just found out Nicholas Blake was C Day-Lewis! He should have stuck to poetry!
I found this a bit bland, to be honest. I expected more (and not just because the author was a poet laureate) but was slightly disappointed.
Really good, until the last two pages, when the detective reveals a really reprehensible approach to mental illness.
One of my favorite Nigel Strangeways.
It was quite a few years ago now so I don't remember it pretty well, but it was fine.
now i am hooked. This was such a great, easy and creative book. i was hooked after the first page. The characters were easy to fall in love with and follow, along with the story. the author made the mental visions so easy and vivid of the surroundings and the characters actions felt so real.i would highly recommend this author and this book.
It is a period piece in dozens of ways, but mostly because of the setting in that most British of institutions, the public boys' school.
As I said, the book is dated, not just in the slang and expressions used, but in some of the very attitudes described.
Still, these characteristics are not necessarily flaws, and they may even be said to contribute to the charm of the book.
Nigel Strangeways, who was reportedly modeled on the poet Auden, is a less memorable character than Lord Peter Whimsey, Roderick Alleyn, Albert Campion, Herule Poirot, Miss Silver or the other detectives of the Golden Age of British mystery novels.
