https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/40604452-agatha-raisin-and-the-potted-gardener
It's always comforting to see Agatha again and the village of Carsley, almost like coming home. This time Agatha is searching for the murder of a beautiful yet surprisingly unpopular newcomer to the village who has been found quite literally 'planted' to death. I love all the characters, and even the cats are a constant highlight.
If only she could picture herself as others do...but I suppose that's true of all of us and it probably makes the abrasive Agatha more relatable a character.As is common with a cozy mystery (the good ones, at least), The Potted Gardner brings back a cast of familiar characters and makes me feel right at home amidst the village intrigue.
I do wish the resolution of the mystery had a bit more wow factor, but again this is often the way of the genre - lots of clues, liberal splashes of local color, and then the answer suddenly arrives wrapped up in a tidy little package.But we read cozies specifically for their comfort value and Agatha Raisin delivers that in spades, along with a welcome dash of humor.
Loved this book and new character Mary Fortune who ends up not being so "fortunate" Perfect foil for Agatha and all of Carsley.
So much background in this book, and we find out that Agatha seems to still have a love/hate relationship with Carsley.
By the end Agatha is back working in PR in London for six months and seems to be very happy away from Carsley - but I am sure it will be pulling her back come book 4!
A new woman comes to Agatha's village and gets murdered.
It is as if the author suddenly picked one of the villagers and labelled them as the murderer without any legitimate reason.
It was a delight to read about Agatha's problems, even though she comes across as childish sometimes.
All the other characters are also well drawn and the descriptions of village life was fun to read.
So while I would not recommend this book on the basis of it being a good mystery (it is not!), I have no problem recommending it for a quick cosy read.
Digital audiobook narrated by Penelope KeithThird in the series starring 50-something Agatha Raisin, former PR executive who is trying to make a life in the village of Carsley, in the English Cottswolds.
As the novel opens, she has just returned from a long holiday, and is determined to win the affections of her neighbor James Lacey.
So Agatha determines to become an expert horticulturalist … or at least give the appearance of one, in hopes of winning back James’ affection.
It’s clear to all that the women are competing for James’ affection – and then Mary is found murdered.
This was interesting for the deeper glimpses of James Lacey's and a few villagers' characters. Also, of course, there is Agatha Raisin who we see growing as a person. Last, but not least, is the solution to the murder. This is definitely a "cozy" mystery series but Agatha's prickly, honest character makes it more interesting than most. I've been listening to the audiobooks, most of which have been read by Penelope Keith who does a great job.
Agatha Raisin kehrt nach einer Weltreise zurück in ihr Cotswolds-Cottage und muss feststellen, dass ihr Nachbar James, auf den Agatha ein Auge geworfen hat, für die neue Dorfbewohnerin Mary schwärmt.
Sie gärtnert leidenschaftlich gerne, und kurzerhand beschließt Agatha, auch bei der bevorstehenden Gartenschau mitzumachen und ihre neue Konkurrentin zu übertrumpfen.
Agatha Raisin ist eine schrullige und liebenswürdige Protagonistin und ich mag einfach ihre Art sehr gerne und wie sie mit ihrer Neugier Mordfälle aufklärt.
Ich mag die vorhandene Spannung, auch wenn es eher ruhig zugeht, sowie den durchaus vorhandenen Humor!
Excellent, Agatha Raisin is a wonderful protagonist.
Un entretenido divertimento por si se tiene mono de un misterio detectivesco a lo Agatha Christie o se quiere una lectura ligera para pasar el rato.No inventa la rueda, pero tampoco lo pretende.
Aunque puede que sea una cuestión personal, ya que me crié con los misterios y elaborados puzles de Agatha Christie y otra cosa más simple me suele resultar un poco insatisfactorio.De todas formas, aunque no es la historia más original del mundo, sirve para pasar el rato.
I don't like Agatha Raisin.
But when I heard that Penelope Leach narrated the audiobooks I decided to give one a try because I love her in Good Neighbors and To the Manor Born, and I thought I'd really enjoy listening to her read a book.
Unfortunately, I still really dislike the MC and most of the other characters in this book.Agatha Raisin is selfish, greedy, petty minded and self-centered.
There's nothing about her to like, I'm afraid.So though I loved Penelope Leach's narration, it will be a while before I listen to another of these.
Agatha Raisin is back again and her attitude is once again causing her no end of problem!
Being competitive makes for a hard time on our Aggie, and it doesn't help that James Lacey ( her eligible neighbor and sometimes partner in sleuthing) has an eye on another new lady in the village while she's been away.
Will Agatha ever settle down and keep her knickers from getting in a twist?
Once again there is murder, mayhem and mischief in the village of Carsely in the Cotswolds to be enjoyed by readers who appreciate well written and off kilter dark humor at it's best.
I love this series, and can't resist audiobooking it again! So entertaining, and there is nobody quite like Agatha.
Agatha Raisin siempre entretiene
"Après de longues vacances d'hiver, Agatha regagne son village des Cotswolds pour se rendre compte qu'une nouvelle habitante a fait irruption et ravi le coeur des habitants, notamment de son voisin !"Mais que s'est-il exactement passé entre vous?
Heureusement d'ailleurs parce que je ne pense pas non plus que le suspense soit particulièrement insoutenable et comme la nouvelle habitante, on commence à se demander si Agatha ne porte pas un peu la poisse avec tous ces meurtres autour d'elle.
"J'ai hâte de retrouver Agatha dans ses prochaines aventures et de découvrir quelles facéties elle nous réserve encore, d'autant que les tomes 5 et 6 viennent de sortir !"http://booksaremywonderland.hautetfor...
Agatha e il suo angolo di campagna inglese sono una gradevole lettura da ombrellone.La trama da giallo è esile, è più che altro la scusa per raccontare la vita del villaggio scelto dalla protagonista per "godersi" la pensione, non bisogna aspettarsi misteri su cui scervellarsi.
L'intrigue est longue à démarrer puisqu'on ne se retrouve avec un cadavre qu'à 41% du livre et je l'ai trouvé peu intéressante. Heureusement, les personnages sauvent la mise et Agatha est toujours aussi hilarante !
Toujours aussi sympathique de suivre cette chère Agatha Raisin et son voisin James. Mais j'ai trouvé la résolution de l'enquête un peu trop simple et comme tombée du ciel.
Je m'amuse toujours autant à suivre cette série et son héroïne pleine de mauvaise foi dès qu'elle cherche à atteindre son but - rien ne l'arrête ! Agatha, ne change rien.Et je suis complètement fan !! ♥http://blogclarabel.canalblog.com/arc...
J'ai trouvé ce troisième volume très très lent à démarrer, d'autant que tant que le meurtre n'avait pas eu lieu, l'intrigue tournait exclusivement autour des amours d'Agatha, c'est-à-dire de James qui n'est vraiment pas un personnage que j'affectionne. Une fois l'enquête démarrée, j'ai retrouvé avec plaisir l'ambiance des deux premières aventures d'Agatha Raisin et la deuxième moitié de ce troisième opus m'a paru enlevée et agréable.
This series is set in a small English village and follows Agatha who has retired to the countryside following a career in PR in London.
This series is a lot of fun and I love the portrayal of village life.
This wasn't my favourite as the mystery element felt a little rushed.
I do really like the character of Agatha and the other characters in the village.
I did feel that this book focused too much on Agatha's relationship with James rather than the mystery.
Overall I enjoyed this book and the series is a lot of fun.
At the end of the previous book, Agatha Raisin and the Vicious Vet, Agatha had given a rude gesture to her neighbour, James Lacey, after imbibing a little too much.
She wants to show off her gardening skills to James Lacey and everyone else in the village but, alas, Mary was right.
Since Agatha believes that her chances with James Lacey are shot, she feels that she has nothing (and no one!) keeping her in Carsley for the winter and agrees.Before Carsley Open Day, villagers are horrified to find that their gardens have been defiled.
Narrator Penelope Keith has returned in this installment, and I have fallen in love with Agatha Raisin all over again!
Book #9 Read in 2013Agatha Raisin and the Potted GardenerThis is the third book in a cozy mystery series.
Agatha Raisin, a pretty cranky older woman, has moved from London to a small town.
In this book, another newbie to the small town, Mary, is murdered.
While Agatha had no love lost for the victim, she attempts to solve the case.There are times when Agatha is a pretty hard character to like.
But for the most part, I enjoy how she calls things like she sees them.
I enjoy the small town setting and the secondary characters.
Who would want to move to Carsley? Mary Fortune did so, showed her skill as a gardener, much to Agatha's disgust, and then found herself murdered.'That friend of yours, Bill Wong, took me aside and told me to make sure you did not interfere in the investigation.' So Agatha's friend James Lacey told her but this did not bother the intrepid amateur sleuth. She did her usual and followed every clue to eventually unmask the killer, trying to keep her love life on track along the way!Another enjoyable offering from the Cotswolds ... but don't move there!
I love Agatha Raisin! She is such a well developed character and is so funny. In this story, Agatha returns from a vacation to find that James Lacey is infatuated with a new woman in the village, Mary Fortune. Agatha dislikes Mary from the start, and feels that she is a phony person. She wishes that a murder would take place so James would remember how well she solved mysteries. Then someone murders Mary Fortune - James and Agatha find her potted upside down in her garden.
S. S. Van Dine said, "There simply must be a corpse in a detective novel, and the deader the corpse the better." In this book, not only is the corpse dead, but creatively. Don't think I've ever read one disposed of quite like this. Wonderful book by the great M. C. Beaton, which is just one of the pseudonyms used by Marion Chesney. Love her!!
I really liked being surprised (in a good way).For the first 1/3 of the book, I really thought I've made a BIG mistake in picking up this book because Agatha Raisin just did not sound lovable - just a grouchy bitch... However, I'm glad I stuck it out a bit longer because she really is a diamond in the rough.A nice cozy mystery to break up the day :)
The more of the series I read the more I like Agatha, she's blunt and doesn't always think things through but she is entertaining.
Another episode of amateur sleuthing in the Cotswolds village of Carsely.
There's a gardening competition in the village and once again Agatha Raisin plans on cheating to win.
But it seems, someone else is determined to win even more when one of the prime contenders turns up dead.Lot's of quirky characters and British detective novel staples (they spend a lot of time in the pub).
Agatha continues her on again, off again relationship with James Lacey and Detective Bill Wong steps in to bring some professional policing to the situation.A short fun book.
The audio version is read by Penelope Keith.
Nice combination of societies full of mildly potty types (pun intended) and a nicely dotty murder, once again we have Agatha off on the trail of a killer, getting herself threatened and nearly bumped off along the way, moping about after James, having fun with friend Bill Wong, and generally indulging in a spot of silliness in the Cotswolds.
If you've not read any of these books but are coming to them on the strength of the TV series then you are going to be confused.
The book version of Agatha is older, bitchier and considerably less "perky" than the TV version.
Again another driving book which is probably one of the better of those listened to so far.

