https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/3697927-princess-of-the-midnight-ball
This story was lacking in too many elements to be enjoyable for me.
The characters were so underdeveloped that the weren't likable- the writing didn't make me love the hero or hate the villain.
The romance lacked passion and believability.
I couldn't ever figure out what the hero and heroine saw in each other, and why the hero would go to such lengths to save the heroine.
And the plot was so predicable- I never wondered whether or not the princesses would be saved in the end, and the ending wasn't suspenseful at all.
I would have liked more detail and description in this story.
That was a sweet retelling of The Twelve Dancing Princesses. It's in a German setting and follows the original story really well! A lot of people ask me for recommendations for clean, happy fantasy adventures with a hint of romance, so this is pretty much the definition of that. It's all very cute and peaceful, yet there's still a full plot and the characters are believable. The greatest part is how the soldier Galen is always knitting something and there are actually patterns in the back for everything he made throughout the story.
But a polite young soldier named Galen, returning from Westfalin’s latest war, is kind to an old woman who then gifts him with an invisibility cloak and some very good advice.This young adult retelling of “The Twelve Dancing Princesses” recreates their story with a few minor twists, such as the scheming role of the King Under Stone (who is the person responsible for the young men’s deaths, not the girls’ father), the fuller development of a relationship between the oldest princess and the soldier, and Galen’s unusual aptitude for knitting (apparently it’s very useful for soldiers to be able to knit socks), which will eventually play a role in the resolution of the mystery.
Reread this April 2011, as I get ready to write the third book. Kinda impressed with myself . . . fun characters, and I'm excited to get back into their heads.
I couldn't fall asleep one night and without even realizing it I was so caught up and enchanted by the story it was six in the morning when I finished the book.This is a retelling but I'm not familiar with the original tale, so I can't say how close it is to the original.
I can't say how much I loved the Galen character (too bad he isn't real and in reality I don't think there could be, but a girl can dream...) This enchanting, romantic, adventurous tale of Rose and Galen is a must read.
I bought this book yesterday at work, and was excited to start it. I had some time in the evening and read a few pages. When I woke early this morning and couldn't get back to sleep, I decided to read for a while. I couldn't stop until I had finished the WHOLE THING! I loved it. I have read other variations on the 12 dancing princesses, but this one had different twist and turns that made it so much different (and better!).
its plot, however, doesn't really veer into unexpected territory, which meant that it was mostly just a very fleshed out version of the original fairy tale, albeit with some minor twists.the characters were extremely underdeveloped and therefore a huge meh for me.
i couldn't keep track of the princesses and their names, couldn't care less about Galen (more on that later) or Rose or their romance, and basically i think the only character in this story i remotely cared about was Gregor, the princesses' father.
i did like another book of hers called  Sun and Moon, Ice and Snow , so maybe it's just that i couldn't connect to the characters in this one.
The Ionian continent has been devastated by the ten-year war between the kingdoms of Westfalin and Analousia, which ended with Westfalin barely victorious, famine, a depressed economy, and thousands upon untold thousands of deaths.Galen is a young veteran who lost his father, mother, and little sister during the war.
(view spoiler)[Under Stone is obsessed with marrying the princesses to his sons because ¾ humans would be able to survive aboveground and take over the kingdoms of Ionia.
“And all because of some shoes,” Galen murmured as they hurried away.“What?” Ulrike had to trot to keep up with him.“This all began because of their shoes being worn out night after night,” he said. He had fallen into an easy quick-march pace. He put an arm around his cousin’s waist to help her along.“If someone could just figure out what they do every night.” Princess of the Midnight Ball is a retelling of the old favourite fairy-tale of The Twelve Dancing Princesses and it is just lovely…LOVE
Princess of the Midnight Ball is a retelling of the old favourite fairy-tale of The Twelve Dancing Princesses and it is just lovely…LOVELY!!!
A book that makes you happy, holds your hand, offers you a warm smile and a friendly embrace.
Despite being locked into their rooms at night with maids and guards keeping vigil each of the twelve princesses appear each morning with worn out dancing slippers… where do the girls go to???
I enjoyed the romance, the intrigue, the mystery… Sometimes we need life to go at a slower pace.
Felt just like the fairytales I grew up on. Maybe not my favorite book as far as YA or romance, but it was still spellbinding from first page to last, there's just something special about the storytelling that made me feel as if I were reliving the old illustrated collection I grew up on. I would get this book for anyone that loves fairytales in a heartbeat.
Princess of the Midnight Ball is an utterly inoffensive retelling of Brothers Grimm's fairy tale Twelve Dancing Princesses.
Princess of the Midnight Ball is a nicely written story with an interesting setting and likable characters.
Galen is certainly a peculiar hero with a penchant for knitting (yeah, I know, not necessarily a turn-on for me either) and princesses are mostly interesting too, especially those who are developed better.
As for the original fairy tale, I'd like to read Juliet Marillier's version - Wildwood Dancing or, gasp, an erotic version The Twelve Dancing Princesses by Nancy Madore.
5 out of 10 ревью на русском/review in russianShort-Soundtrack:Pianochocolate – WaltzCassidy Ladden – ShineYuriko Nakamura – Flower Well, I don’t know what to say. I thought it would be a true retelling for young adult auditory but this is an extended version of the old Grimm’s tale for middle grade people or even children.The plot is more than close to the original story about twelve princesses. The book is good but the idea and its execution were shamelessly stolen. Okay, it's a retelling, us
I thought it would be a true retelling for young adult auditory but this is an extended version of the old Grimm’s tale for middle grade people or even children.The plot is more than close to the original story about twelve princesses.
The book is good but the idea and its execution were shamelessly stolen.
I was waiting for unexpected twists, for some underground-orgies, court intrigues and revolutions… even a mere good romance could save the story for me.
So why YA?For me the book was a waste of time.
or two...) so here's my best attempt at writing one: (note: I am not particularly good at writing thoughtful, lengthy reviews)To be quite frank, upon finishing Princess of the Midnight Ball I felt deeply annoyed at myself for ever having picked up this book -- and having it sit in the corner of my room, making me feel guilty, for almost eight months.
Galen and Rose were such an annoying pair and their feelings for each other didn't seem real to me; I honestly didn't much care whether their "relationship" would work out in the end or not.
A delightful retelling of The Twelve Dancing Princesses with charming and interesting characters and the true meaning of love.
Princess of the Midnight Ball is a retelling of the Twelve Dancing Princesses story.
Yes, there are indeed twelve dancing princesses here, and George tries valiantly to give them all personality, but there's only so much an author can do in 270 pages.
The last bit of the book is taken up largely with unnecessary complications that result mostly from Galen, who before had always been clever and wise, acting like a bit of an idiot.
(hide spoiler)] Also largely unnecessary is the plot thread about the princesses being considered witches.And yet, I still enjoyed the book.
“What young girl wouldn’t love to dance away her nights in this splendid castle in the arms of a handsome suitor?”I was hooked with the blurb of this book because I used to watch Barbie and the Twelve Dancing Princesses (don't judge, asshole).Princess of the Midnight Ball is a fun read.
This book is just perfect if you want to read something breezy with a little mystery.We're all familiar with the original story.
There was a king (because we can't have princesses without a king) and this king has 12 daughters.
These poor princesses were cursed to dance every night...
A sweet, charming, and simple fairytale retelling!
While I wouldn't normally pick up a fantasy/fairytale book (as fantasy isn't my favorite genre), Princess of the Midnight Ball was highly recommended to my by a friend.
I thoroughly enjoyed this sweet fairytale!
I was surprised that most often the story was written from his POV (point of view) and not Princess Rose, but it wasn't a bad surprise---Jessica wove together the entire story wonderfully well.
And I enjoyed reading it from a guy's POV.
All in all, a delightful fairytale that young teens and adults will both be sure to enjoy.
It's a very light, quick, easy read.
It's dark, no doubt, with it's setting and just the general atmosphere of the book but at the same time, it'll make you smile and giggle and just leave you with a huge smile on your face, the kind you'd get from reading a fluffy book.It's a quick read too so if you're not sure about it, I'd still tell you to give it a shot because you might just end up liking it!With all that said, I have no idea what to rate this book so I am just going to leave it as it is.
A truly delightful retelling of the Twelve Dancing Princesses fairytale that follows a soldier who is returning from war and is caught up in the intrigue of where the princesses go each night and how to help them. There is gardening. There is knitting. There is snappy dialogue and unforgettable characters. And, oh yeah, this book is dedicated to me, so there is that as well.
I loved this retelling of the twelve dancing princesses. I also loved that the hero knitted. So cool. I've knitted a hanger cozy and that's about it, but I remember enjoying the process a lot. The description of the Under Stone kingdom was awesome. I can totally picture it in my head along with the twelve dark princes.
Unlike the original fairy tale, in this story, the princesses don’t want to dance at the Midnight Ball every night but they have no choice: they are under a curse by an evil sorcerer.
The heroes of this story, the eldest princess, eighteen-year-old Rose, and a former soldier, nineteen-year-old Galen, fall in love, of course, while Galen tries to figure out Rose’s secret and how to help her and her sisters.
He sees that the princesses suffer and he longs to help.
Otherwise, it was a book to rest your soul after all the battles and flawed heroes of modern adult fantasy.
The result is an enchantingly fresh and original look at the classic fairy tale.
The Twelve Dancing Princesses is very much a girls story.
I think shifting focus to the male character really helps the book by adding a sense of balance to an otherwise light and frilly fantasy.One of my favorite things about the book is that George doesn’t waste time giving each girl her moment.
George opted instead to focus on a few of the princesses, making it easier to relate to her characters while remaining true to the story.The decision to make Galen a proficient knitter was inspired.
Rose is the eldest princess, cursed along with her eleven sisters (all named after flowers) to dance every night at the ball of the King Under Stone.
Now they must work together to free Rose and her sisters from the dreadful bargain made long ago between the King Under Stone and the queen, who died years ago.As in most fairy tale retellings, the author has to add complexity in order to make a short tale into a longer book, and George does a good job with this.
He follows the tales of his dead mother to find her living sister.
And his uncle, who happens to be the head gardener for the king.
Thus Galen becomes an undergardener.And privy to the most dramatic mystery in the kingdom.For no one, especially the daughters of the king, can tell where they disappear each night.
And why even when they are grievously ill, they are compelled to dance.Jessica Day George’s rendering of the fairy tale, The Twelve Dancing Princesses, is smooth and romantic and a sheer pleasure to read.
I'm hesitant to call  Princess of the Midnight Ball a retelling as it's not so much a retelling as it is a telling.I expect any retelling to bring something new to the original story, some new layers, better understanding of the characters, more intricate backgrounds.But this book doesn't bring anything fresh. Princess of the Midnight Ball is your basic  The Twelve Dancing Princesses retelling, and it stays pretty close to the original version.
MEH.RTC.
Please note that I gave this book 4.5 stars and rounded it to 5 stars on Goodreads.After reading Silver in the Blood I was interested in reading George's other works.
Coming home, Galen starts to work with his uncle in the king's garden and there meets the eldest, Rose.
Galen was a great hero and I liked Rose as well as the other princesses.
George does such a great job with dialogue and action that I wish that Silver in the Blood had been done as well as this book.The ending had a can you believe it ending to it which was the only reason why I gave this 4.5 stars.
Очень наивная, добрая сказка. Прочитала с огромным удовольствием, даже не смотря на то что никогда не слышала сказки о танцующих принцессах. Может автор выдумала? Черт знает, но мне понравилось! Солдат со спицами просто звезда :D Я всегда улыбалась от уха до уха на эти сценки. Любимой будет когда они пришел во дворец и ждал короля - сел, достал спицы и стал вязать xD Правильно, нечего время зря тратить! :D
I love all of Jessica's books. They are fantasic reads. Her creative story lines and well developed characters are always a joy. I can never put her books down. I'm always so sad when I finish reading one because I want the next one immediatly. If you haven't read Jessica's books you need to. They are all fantasic.
