https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/542389.Stalingrad
Undoubtedly, the winters were rough, and the Germans unprepared, but as Anthony Beevor makes clear in Stalingrad, the fault did not lie in the weather, but in Hitler and the stars.
This is all explained in the beginning sections of Stalingrad, which are dedicated to the the planning of Operation Barbarossa, the start of the invasion, the battle for Moscow, and the first Russian winter.
Once the Germans are on the defensive, battling Russians and the winter, Beevor's narrative really grips you.
While the German atrocities in Russia are briefly recounted at the book's start, the Russian atrocities - against their own troops, no less!
The half-year battle for the streets of Stalingrad was an unremitting horror, with not only two armies, but thousands of civilians jammed into a city that was being bombed into rubble while everyone was starving or dying of thirst.
(Apparently this book demonstrated the dangers of trying to substitute snow for water.) Just when the battle for the streets of Stalingrad appeared to be turning into a stalemate, with General Vassili Chuikov of the Soviet 62nd Army fighting Paulus's German Sixth Army to a virtual draw, Marshal Zhukov initiated an encircling movement that caught the Nazis unaware.
List of IllustrationsList of MapsPreface to the New EditionPreface--StalingradAppendix A: German and Soviet Orders of Battle, 19 November 1942Appendix B: The Statistical Debate: Sixth Army Strength in the KesselReferencesSource NotesSelect BibliographyIndex
And I'm like 'nope, but neither did they.' Bunches of people being confused in the snow and doing horrible things to each other.This I greatly regret: I have a friend, Josek, who was in that siege as one of many idealistic Polish volunteers who made the incredible trip there, survived despite getting TB, and was given a loaf of bread to set him on his way back to Poland - if you ask me it's more than a one loaf walk, but anyway.
And then, in that way life is fucking unfair to people who deserve better he fell over and died.Josek was tiny, so small and frail that a strong breeze was his natural enemy.
This is an excellent account of the battle of Stalingrad, I'd place it next to 'Enemy at the Gates'.
The author gives you an overview of the military situation on the Eastern Front prior to the German Offensive towards Stalingrad on the Volga.
The author tells the story of this terrible battle through the accounts of those soldiers who endured this inferno and survived as well as using letters and diaries of those who didn't!
It's a good account of the battle and well worth the time to read.
You'll feel for those common soldiers, both German & their Allies and the Russians.
This book was more from the 6th Army/German perspective, which wasn’t what I was expecting.
But seeing as my background on this event comes more from the Russian perspective, so it was an interesting read.
This book covers a lot of ground, starting with Operation Barbarossa (well, really even a little bit before that) and follows through some prison camps that extended into the 1950s!
There is a part in this book that describes a German officer who gets flown out of the 6th Army encirclement (late in the battle) describing the desperate situation to Hitler.
Ce qui manqué aux Palmeres d'Antony Beevor, c'est le prix Nobel de littérature accordé à un historien pour la dernière fois en 1953.
Pourtant, le genie de Beevor c'est de mettre les souffrances des petits gens aux premier plans de ces récits de batailles.Les simples soldats allemdands ont recu un rude choc culturel sur le front de l'est.
Tandis que les Allemands essayaient de se rechauffer dans leurs casernes, les Russes les ont éncirlclé.
Les allemands ont fini par subir une des défaites les plus absolues de l'histoire militaire.C'est un livre à lire pour qui que ca soit qui aime ou l'histoire ou la litterature.
In the summer of 1942 German axis forces descended on the small city of Stalingrad, Russia, pollution 400,000.
Over the next 9 months, the Axis threw roughly 1 MM well armed expertly trained soldiers, supported by the famed Luftwaffe, at the city.
The Luftwaffe mercilessly bombed and cannons shelled city for months.
An estimated 850,000 Axis soldiers were killed or wounded.
Germany lost and retreated in its first major defeat of WW II.
Law plays Vassili Zaitsev who became a Hero of Russia for killing 225 Axis soldiers including 11 opposing snipers during the battle.
Beevor attains a nice balance between telling the stories of the top leaders with their cigars, brandy and strategy maps, and what life was like for the ordinary soldiers who died in their hundreds of thousands in the snow.
He also has a nice balanced approach to the two sides; we are spared neither Hitler's stupidity and vacillation, nor Stalin's arrogance and carelessness.
Ultimately, the book's thesis is that both leaders were pretty careless of their own people's lives, but that Stalin was the more pragmatic; Hitler's amour propre and fey mysticism cost him and his country dear in the end.
Antony Beevor has written a tome that will last the ages.I found this book so easy to read and follow, but also exciting and majorly informative.
It's written in a style that readers who like statistics and those who like story driven books will be able to come together as this book has both!I'm not one to give too much information away, but what I can say is that if you want to read a book that will keep you hooked from page to page, and stir all emotions inside you, than Stalingrad should be at the top of your list!
"Slavic peasant" phrasing is uncomfortably common, and it makes you question the author's intentions.- Use of individual anecdotes to portray behaviors depicted in those anecdotes as common and regular.- Unfounded claims, the most jarring of which being 13,500 Soviet soldiers supposedly executed by the NKVD during the course of the battle.
Documented sources put the number of NKVD detainees at 1,218 men, of which only 21 were executed, the rest returning back to the front.- The 'totalitarianism fallacy' of equating socialism and fascism.And more.Don't read unless you want to work your criticism muscles.
What if, during the final stages of Operation Barbarossa, when time was of the essence, the Army Groups South, North and Central coalesced into one unit and struck Moscow together?
He reminds us that hard-work, cleverness, conscientiousness are yes admirable qualities in an individual, however, if you are placing the fate of millions of people in a person, the qualities of decisiveness, command experience and toughness should outweigh any other qualities in times of war.
Description: The Battle of Stalingrad was not only the psychological turning point of World War II: it also changed the face of modern warfare.
Historians and reviewers worldwide have hailed Antony Beevor's magisterial Stalingrad as the definitive account of World War II's most harrowing battle.In August 1942, Hitler's huge Sixth Army reached the city that bore Stalin's name.
In the five-month siege that followed, the Russians fought to hold Stalingrad at any cost; then, in an astonishing reversal, encircled and trapped their Nazi enemy.
As a story of cruelty, courage, and human suffering, Stalingrad is unprecedented and unforgettable.Antony Beevor: why did Ukraine ban my book?
Kiệt tác về một trận chiến vĩ đại và kinh khủng trong lịch sử nhân loại
Grazie allo spoglio degli archivi tedeschi e russi, ma soprattutto dell’NKVD (la mamma del KGB di putiniana memoria) e alla consultazione ed analisi di rapporti, lettere dei soldati a casa, interrogatori dei prigionieri, nonché memorie e interviste ai sopravvissuti, vengono alla luce piccole e piccolissime storie, non solo di ufficiali superiori, ma di soldati e civili travolti, sbattuti, inghiottiti e divorati nel terribile gorgo di Stalingrado.
Vita da topi rintanati per mesi in cantine, rifugi e fogne, sotto le bombe che riducono una splendida città in un ammasso di rovine, prima per i russi e poi per i tedeschi assediati, con uno “stupendo” colpo di scena finale in cui le parti si invertono come in una trita e ritrita commedia.
An excellent account of the Stalingrad battle on all perspectives.
It recounts the battle and the importance of Stalingrad as a turning point in the war between the nazi Germany and the allied powers as well as the experiences of soldiers of both Russian and German soldiers.
It also recounts the roles of Hitler and Stalin during the progress of the battle.All in all it was an immensely enjoyable read from which I gained much knowledge.
I recommend it to anyone who wants a general and comprehensive view of the Stalingrad battle which proved to be a vital point in the WW2.
The Nazis started it but the Soviets paid them back with interest.Beevor takes the first 100 pages to give an account of the war in the east up to arriving at the outskirts of Stalingrad.
As the Sixth Army arrives at the suburbs of Stalingrad, the Germans feel like they will win shortly while the Russians despair at ever mounting losses.
The Germans get a taste of the desperation of the defense:Fight like a girl (view spoiler)[While Richthofen’s bombers pounded Stalingrad, the armoured spearhead of the 16th Panzer Division had advanced virtually unopposed across the steppe for nearly twenty-five miles.
One of these was the brilliant short story writer Hector Hugh Munro (aka "Saki") who, during that very dark morning of 14 November 1916 at the front was shot to death by a sniper after warning another soldier with his last words: "Put that bloody cigarette out."And when these burrowing men of war wanted to have more deaths they charge en masse to their adversaries' position upon a long whistle while the other side mows them down with enthusiastic machine gun fire.That was, of course, the first world war.
The battle of Stalingrad was the most important of WWII, the author tell us about the siege of Stalingrad; an very detailed story of the battle and point of view of soldier. The book count with an excellent research, well written like a novel. You have a good look of both armies and their commanders, focuses on the details tactical and strategic of the battle, about decisions of the generals. However the book it barely mentioned the military aviation but this is one the best books of the battle of Stalingrad and a masterpiece, highly recommend.
Сталинград – адът, създаден от човека: http://knigolandia.info/book-review/s...
Бийвър успява по изумителен начин да рисува и едрите краски на победоносното нахлуване на Райха в Съветския съюз, препъването при Москва и офанзивата към Сталинград, която е ключова за тази част на фронта, и да вникне в безброй лични истории и примери и за най-възвишеното, и за най-мерзкото.
История, в която думата “победа” значи оцеляване, но думата “загуба” предлага безброй нюанси на страданието.Издателство "Изток-Запад"http://knigolandia.info/book-review/s...
This is surely one of the best, if not the best, books written on the siege of Stalingrad.
The description of the siege, from both the German and Soviet perspectives, is quite unforgettable.
The battle was joined on 23 August 1942 and concluded over five months later with the encirclement of the assaulting German Sixth Army by Russian reinforcements.
Casualty estimates are always difficult for a battle of this size, but most agree that over a million lives were lost on both sides.
It was a brutal, terrifying engagement for both sides, and with the ultimate Soviet victory the tide of the war on the Eastern front was reversed.
The case of both the Red Army, stuck in their siege and under incredible pressure, and of the invading Germans, Romanians and Italians, freezing and starving to death, are presented equally, and with great compassion.Beevor clearly also isn't without a sense of humour, and his numerous jabs at both the Soviet and Nazi leadership, tongue firmly in cheek, despite the grave and terrible things they were often related to paradoxically never failed to bring a smile to my face.All in all I enjoyed Stalingrad immensely.
During the complete course of war, change in mood, thoughts, impressions of Germans, Romanians and Soviets is easily depicted.
It is easy to trace that conflict of ego, was the main reason for mass killing of mankind and animals.Conflicts of regional political ideologies was another big reason for it.
Then using the beguiled country to conflict was the utter mistake of their leaders.Breaking the chain of command was just another big mistake of Hitler.
The final break through was impossible owing to the exhaustion.Biggest mistake was done by Paulus and Manstein, for agreeing, unreasonably to Hitler and keep pushing sixth army beyond limits.Regional ethnic changes were made by such mass movements.
The ending of siege of Stalingrad was seen by many historians as the defining moment of the Second World War. It cost the lives of hundreds of thousands of both German and Russian soldiers, as well as countless numbers of civilians.
What is certain is that neither dictator had much respect for the lives of their people and a deep seated hatred for their enemy.After the Berlin Wall had fallen, Antony Beevor the writer of this fine book, had access for a short time to a lot of material from the Russian archives which had been unavailable to historians who wrote previous books on this subject.
Stalingrad was the battle that turned the tide in the struggle against the German forces in WWII.
This battle cost over 1 million lives with both sides refusing to lose.
The cost to the civilian population was staggering and this was a true battle of total war.
Both sides showed little mercy to their own soldiers with executions and inhuman cruelity to prisoners.
The interesting sidelight to this battle is how many of the future Soviet leaders were low ranking officers and soldiers at Satlingrad and how their futures were shaped by the events of this historical battle.
Anyone interested in the history of WWII must read this book.
Stalingrad occasionally delves into deeper analysis of subjects, and even rarer so does provide arguments and counter-arguments to popular historical narratives, but I feel a stronger balance would have added to the book.Finally, after all the lead up, Beevor starts addressing the Battle of Stalingrad itself starting in Part 3.
In summary, Antony Beevor’s Stalingrad is a well put together ‘tour de force’ of the infamous Battle which indubitably changed the course of the second world war and potentially human history.
But any general unwise enough to actually make a suggestion contrary to either of the leader's commands tended to be ignored at best, arrested at worst.Whoever “won” at Stalingrad (and like the War itself, it's not clear that the victors came out of the battle in much better shape than the defeated), it was always going to be in spite of the commander-in-chief, not thanks to them.
Beevor seems to agree with this philosophy so a lot of the battle is described in little vignettes: snippets from letters sent home, brief eye witness reports, a datum here and there from the mass of available (and contradictory) statistics.
Beevor manages to capture the scale of a truly titanic struggle without forgetting the human element. A powerful and often harrowing picture what happens when two dictatorships go to war. The Soviet Union may have been a dreadful place to live, but it should be remembered that its people did, once upon a time, save the world from something worse.
I opted for an abridged version on audible, listened to at 2x speed while walking the dog --. A heavier focus on military history than I normally read, but a good enough overview in preparation for reading Vasily Grossman. Not, however, a really superb book, in my view -- though the editing/abridgment may have had something to do with that.
Only the greatest historians can crowd every page with compelling human stories while still keeping the big picture clear in the reader's mind at all times.
Antony Beevor makes the reader feel on every page that he is actually there, and he does it by relying almost exclusively on direct, first-person quotes to tell the story.
He keeps the narrative moving forward while balancing the German and Russian perspective perfectly, and by alternating between the generals at headquarters and troops in the front lines.
But never once does the larger story lose momentum or clarity because of the personal anecdotes that fill every page.
