https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/142464.Royal_Flash
D'Artagnan is superficially portrayed as a classical hero, driven by the purest of motives; his courage, his loyalty to his friends, his love for Mme. Bonacieux and his devotion to the Queen.
Given that Les Trois Mousquetaires was apparently written by two people, I do wonder whether D'Artagnan's interesting character is a serendipidous product of creative differences.
Despite everything, you feel that, somehow, he isn't such a terrible person after all.The thing that's common to both books, it seems to me, is the way in which they subvert staple characters in the adventure story genre, and turn them into real people.
I find myself wondering whether such a character (if it was published now) would be embraced in our own rather politically correct, hypervigilant times, even if this series of novels can not be interpreted in any other way than as being nothing more than highly diverting, escapist parodies.However, Royal Flash  is rather tame (and by extension not as intriguing) in comparison with the excellent original, which I highly recommend.
Here we find Flashman as a far more toned down and passive character, an eternal victim of various villainous schemes and unforeseen circumstances.
However, my sources have divulged to me that the next entries are considered to be the best of the series, so I will most certainly proceed with learning all there is to know about our good old Flashman.
In this one, I wondered if MacDonald might have been making him a little more heroic, a little more sympathetic.Along the same line, most of the difficulties he gets embroiled in throughout the course of this book--the very things that drive the plot--are thrust upon him, leaving him a much less active character.
He's kidnaped, blackmailed, and forced at gunpoint to take part in various plots, instead of being trapped into them by his own faults and greed, as he was in the first volume.But then, that's part of the problem of a cowardly character: how do you make him an active agent in his own story without forcing his hand?
I didn’t like Royal Flash quite as much as the first book in the series, probably because this is the lone Flashman novel set in a fictional location (instead of throwing Flashy directly into real-world events).
But I missed seeing ol’ Flashy thrown directly into actual events, and given that this is the first and only Flashman novel to put him in a fictional location, I’m guessing I’m not alone.Fortunately, the adventure and humor are still top notch.
He's such a product of his age (Victorian), and has all the expected attitudes towards women and other cultures that you would expect from a a man of that era--so much so that he comes across as disgusting and vile at times.
History truly comes alive in these books, some of the best historical writing I have ever read.
For instance, while reading this book, of course I looked up Bismark!The use of footnotes in this series is also brilliant and clever.
It's a brilliant amalgamation of truth/fiction--and again makes Flashman, and his historical time, seem alive and real..
So while I didn't like this book as much as other's I've read, it's still a brilliant series.
A bit slower than the first volume and not quite as fun, but still a good read if you are a fan of the series.
A classic anti-hero and not an easy character for me to relate to at all.However it was highly recommended and I enjoyed the way the tawdry historical references (of the sort you never find in school history books) were woven so intrinsically into the story, so I persisted.
I particularly enjoyed the historical references and context as well.I strongly recommend it for friends who like a different read and who are prepared to invest some serious energy into getting into a book.
Having enjoyed 'Flashman' (The Flashman Papers, #1), I was keen to read more tales of Flashy, the unabashed racist, scoundrel, bully, cad and coward.
George MacDonald Fraser continues his literary conceit that what we are reading is the second part of a cache of papers, written by Flashman in old age (between 1900 and 1905).
The second pack of papers is detailed in Royal Flash (The Flashman Papers, #2) and our disreputable hero tangles with femme fatale Lola Montez, and Otto Von Bismarck, amongst others.
Despite an improbable plot, this really is another rollickingly good yarn.There are 12 books in the series:Flashman (1969)Royal Flash (1970)Flash for Freedom!
Flashman has no liking for adventure, and it requires both blackmail and force to get him to imitate Prince Carl Gustav.
Bismarck, realising Flashman's uncanny resemblance to Carl Gustav, intends to substitute him for the prince, and then reveal his identity, framing him as an agent of British Prime Minister Palmerston, engaged on some underhanded business.
The purpose of this plot is to get both the Danes and Germans in Strackenz up in arms, provoking a general war in the region.Of course, Flashman goes through the whole adventure quaking with terror.
Royal Flash is the 2nd book in the Flashman series by George MacDonald Fraser.
This story was used for the movie (1975) starring Malcolm McDowell as the irrepressible Harry Flashman.
The combination of his troubles with his in-laws and a payment of a considerable amount of money sways him towards this voyage even though he wonders why Lola would want his help after what he has done to her.This starts Flash on an unplanned adventure to a small state north of Germany where he is forced to impersonate a Crown Prince of Denmark, all part of the subterfuges of future Iron Chancellor, Bismark.
If you want an enjoyable adventure, you might like the Flash series.
An exact replica but set in a different location.Flashman is back from the afgan war a hero.
You can guess what happens here.Otto and Flashy meet up again, where flashy gets his revenge on him by organising an exhibition bout against a top puglist and his affair with Lola bores him, so he denounces her her on a London stage as a non spanish charlatan.Otto and Lola plot their revenge by getting Flashman involved in German/Danish politics where he just happens to look exactly like a Danish Prince - standing in for him at his wedding, as he recovers from a social disease.What is it with doppleganger books that I have on at the moment - this is 2nd one in a row.Usualy caddish, cowardly behaviour ensues with Flashman eventually getting away with it all - and the Danish Jewells that he has half inched.Nice twisty ending - with Flashman having met his female equivalent.The humour is once again first class and another excellent history lesson.
Flashman's character is becoming more cohesive in this book.
I felt that in the 1st book Fraser didn't quite know how to handle his creation, and Flashman fluctuated between being a cad and an outright unlikeable bastard.
This time he's a coward, sure, and a bully if he sees the chance, and of course if you put a skirt on a hay bale then he'd probably sleep with it, but he still never dips below likeable scoundrel.
A few slow points where Fraser dips a bit too far into the history aspect, but much of it also lends these novels their authenticity, so they become overall bearable.
What can I say ? If you like your main character to be a rake, a fake and a coward then the Flashman series is the books for you. In the second book, the Flashman focuses on one particular fling with a woman of amazing talents, and how his dealings with her led him to adventures in the attempt to unite Germany by impersonating a Royal Dane. Great stuff. On to Book 3.
From BBC Radio 4 Extra:Celebrated cavalry officer, Harry Flashman is caught with his trousers down in a London club. Read by Iain Cuthbertson.
If youre ever to be chased out of a London club by the peelers and find yourself staring down the opportunity of escape in the back of a carriage containing an Irish girl and a German gentleman. Take the cells sir. Or you may find yourself impersonating a Danish prince, penniless, Sabrecut and lost somewhere in the midst of a revolution. Another brilliant Flashman instalment. What a wonderful cur, a whelping coward, a miserable, sneaky, double dealing brigand. Who you love from page one to page three hundred.Hurrah.
Just as good as the first! I like everything about Flashman so far, whether he's cowering his way through Afghanistan or getting shanghaied by Otto von Bismarck into some madcap scheme in Denmark. Recommended to anyone who has a sense of humor.
Not as humorous as the first - which still leaves it above most comedies.
“I was sufficiently recovered from my nervous condition – or else the booze was beginning to work ...Royal Flash is the second of the Flashman novels.
This makes it the only Flashman novel to be set in a fictitious location.
The story sees Flashman (view spoiler)[fleeing from a police raid on a brothel he was visiting, Flashman meets Lola Montez and Otto von Bismarck.
His mission: to imitate Prince Carl Gustaf, a fictional member of the Danish royal family.
In fact the prince is in prison in Jotunberg Castle.
Flashman is a doppelgänger of the Prince.
Accompanied to Strackenz by Bismarck's accomplices, Rudi von Starnberg, Detchard and de Gautet, Flashy weds the Duchess.
Narrating the story from many, many years later, he has absolutely no illusions about his courage or honor or sense of duty--actually, a buried sense of shame--and this distance and perspective is the only thing that made me keep reading after about the twentieth page.
The work is littered with references to real historical figures, references to fictional historical figures, and fictional references to fictional historical figures, and so forth, and it was an entertainingly futile exercise to try and identify the various Easter eggs and background homework that Fraser used to bring the period verisimilitude.None of it was enough, however, to keep me reading past the 150th page, by which time Flashy's welcome had been well and truly exhausted...just as the intricate and rather interesting machinations in Strackenz (the events of which "inspired" The Prisoner of Zenda) start to engage and Flashman is in trouble in earnest.
Harry Flashman is still rotten to the core but takes you on quite a trip as he carouses his way through England and Europe.
Several laugh out loud moments as he impersonates a Danish prince on his wedding night (the prince's, not Flashman's) and tries to escape the clutches of Bismarck.
Especially entertaining was his description of fox hunting and his "education" in how to pull off an impressive scam.
I had harsh words for the character of Flashman after I read the first book in George MacDonald Fraser's series. But there was something that compelled me to seek out more of his (mis)adventures and so I picked up Royal Flash from the library. Maybe it's that the novel is a pastiche of one of my childhood favorites, The Prisoner of Zenda, or that Flashman is less a victim of his own worst instincts than of the machinations of others. Regardless, I found him less loathsome and more the likable (to a degree) rogue.

We had moved here and this proved topical.
It was a humid summer and the house was gradually coming together.
I'd come home from work and then attend to some task, usually making quite the mess.
I lack facility in such matters.
I read a number of story collections that summer, I also read a Flashman.
The novel's layered plot I found engaging, though not the execution thereof.
Who can complain about a protagonist whose favorite verb is roger?
Sure, the politics are incredibly reactionary and the pacing akin to genre norms.
That said, I did buy a couple more more future diversion.
The second Flashman novel, and as excellent as the first. Despite even the character himself saying he's nothing but a cad and a bully, I actually like him, and let's face it, would any of us behave any differently given the situations he faced? In this story, Flashy gets hoodwinked into helping Otto Bismark engineer all sorts of dastardly deeds in what will eventually become Germany. Thoroughly entertaining, with lots of fights, escapes and beautiful women along the way.
Something about reading about Flashy running around Eastern Europe, drinking and carrying on, can be a little dangerous; particularly when you are running around Eastern Europe. This is another wonderful Flashman book, our hero may be without his whiskers but that does not stop him from romping with chambermaids, acting the cad and behaving very badly in the face of danger.
http://www.bbc.co.uk/iplayer/episode/...Celebrated cavalry officer Harry Flashman is caught with his trousers down in a London club. Read by Iain Cuthbertson.Loosely based on The Prisoner of Zenda
The second Flashman novel is slightly better than the first, at least in my humble opinion. Focusing in more personal affairs and some skullduggery instead of losing itself in macropolitical dabbling, Royal Flash is more of a pulp-spy novel and good fun.
Read any of the Flashman series if you enjoy a great read of fiction based upon fact. GM Fraser is the best, he often has you holding your gut you're laughing so hard.Certainly the best series I've ever had th epleasure of reading.Ringo
Thank you Bettie - loving this! What fun this was, loved the self deprecation and humour of Flashman
this one was a movie and the book is better. read it. love the rascal that is Harry Flashman! hard to put down or forget.
