https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1004655.The_Beetle_Leg
It is a lawless country.Reading John Hawke’s second novel, the purgatorial western The Beetle Leg, is like being a small child awake during the night, staring in horror at some formless dark beast of the imagination that lurks within the shadows of their room.
This is clearly a novel that demands multiple readings, and I am excited for the discoveries I am sure to find on each repeat visit.While being a difficult, demanding little novel, Hawke’s The Beetle Leg is a powerful display of surrealism and poetic potency.
I’ll share:Trim no trees of vines when the Moon or Earth is in Leo. For they will surely die.He stopped reading and marked his place, and began to talk.It is a lawless country.
46)It is almost as if Hawkes foreshadows his own novel’s lawless abandon of story ( sjuzhet) leaving only plot (fabula), which can’t be abandoned whether the author chooses to or not, while at the same time, overestimating the ‘magic’ of his pages.Occasionally while reading TBL, I’d hit a passage that made little sense, actually it happened frequently, but when forced to slow down, slow down and reread, the passage would yield logic when finding the right emphasis—you have to pay attention.
I continue to be perplexed by the early novels of John Hawkes.
His books were introduced to me by John Barth, and nothing could be in starker contrast than the story-drunk Barth and the austerity of early Hawkes.
But story, narrative, and plot, just like character, live rich lives in Hawkes, even if one needs to read far far below the text one is provided with.
There remains in my mind of experience something darker than light in these Hawkes novels; something much closer to experience which has always found itself less than fully illuminated.
Mulge is a great non character: he is the Godot in this ‘surrealistic Western’: in a bizarre but unique scene, which actually takes up a whole chapter, the guy manages to get married without a single reference to himself: clever little technique.I’m not sure how well Hawkes understands the fabric of the ‘wild west’, but even if he doesn’t, hes very good at shaping out complete weirdos and misfits.

Tried twice, found this unreadable. As friend AC said, there's something "deeply inauthentic" here. Read The Lime Twig instead. You'll be glad you did.
"I began to write fiction on the assumption that the true enemies of the novel were plot, character, setting and theme, and having once abandoned these familiar ways of thinking about fiction, totality of vision or structure was really all that remained."This seems to me, to be the mission statement for most experimental fiction.
In fact, it would probably be in my best interest to read it four more times before writing this, but here goes...I mentioned how the beginning of the novel sounds like a direct influence on Mccarthy, in particular his book No Country for Old Men. The law plays a similar role here, but the sheriff in the Beetle Leg has less of a morally upright tone.
Look Who's Pulling Your Beetle LegThis travesty of a post-modern minimalist novel (boldly published and promoted by James Laughlin's Nude Erections Books until "yesterday's obscure gibberish became today’s course requirement") is best left to the forty bearded shovellers banging their forty metal mugs on the planks of the makeshift timber table, sitting shoulder to shoulder, bumping in the darkness of their interminable empty nights.
The employment of dredge and suction pump has done little toward changing the contour and imperfections of this yellow peakless sarcophagus of mud, in which fissures have appeared and deceptively closed, trapping wrestling mice and young lizards.
The barest tracings of a story (a myth? a nightmare?) bubbling up through an indistinguishable murk of words and description. It's not incoherent, it's not nonsense, it just rigorously defies all effort to extract any overarching sense or purpose.
If you tell me you understand all of it, I will tell you that you are absolutely full of shit to your face. Brilliant. A ghost.
Not sure what happened here—reading through many friends' glowing reviews of this one, it seems I have missed the magic somehow.
Was it the book?
I guess those are pointless questions.s.penkevich's review got the closest to making me re-evaluate my thoughts on this book, but ultimately, I just didn't see the depth or necessity to it that others did.
Beyond the snake venom scene early on, there was just nothing here that made me want to linger and parse out.
Hawkes's ability to use elision as a technique in the story telling is masterfully pulled off, however, the problem for me extends to a lack of depth beyond stylistic motifs.
I read a chunk of this and had no idea why... lots of descriptions about boots and tables or something... But what bothered me most is that this is an Ivy League professor trying to sound like he's a dirt cowboy in Montana -- just as, in the Lime Twig (which worked better, I thought), he was trying to sound like a working class Brit. There is something deeply inauthentic about this - though I suppose that some would call him a "master of style". Anyway -- to each his own.
A fractured novel set in a nightmarish American West, comprised of visions and disturbing set pieces. Amazing sentences that defy expectation at almost every phrase abound.
An opaque, surreal parody of a western. Grotesque and confusing, will bring to mind Faulkner and Dante(and David Lynch).
Nota bene: Do not read the following if you have no desire to discover what happens, though I make no guarantee to having accurately set forth what did—and, seeing as it makes not a lick of sense to those not partially subsumed within the ghost world, what the fuck do you care if it seeks to squeal that business anywho?The sheriff narrates the opening chapter in a tongue thick with twanged weariness and the dust of life.Luke Lampson has an older brother, Mulge—the man the sheriff spies frozen by the sludgy river in the opening narration?—who was killed in the renowned (locally) Great Slide from years back, a huge shifting of the sun-baked earth.
An actual visit to these type of desolate places helps in understanding a spiritual side that this barren land offers.The story takes place in a desert near a town surrounding a collapsed dam, which in the past has buried Luke Lampson's brother, Mulge, in its “Great slide.” Some of the characters include a child attacked by a poisonous snake on the side of the road, a spontaneously arriving pack of motorcyclists called the Red Devils, and a local sheriff who has a fancy for girls with short whirling skirts.
this is my first Hawkes novel.
i didn't think i would finish it.
i kept saying, "i'm 40 pages/60 pages/halfway through this thing and i have no clue what it's even about!" now i've got 10 pages left in this book and i'm still not totally sure what's happening, but i still cannot put it down.
the delivery is so alluring, the scenes are beautifully eerie and vivid, offering an impression of a scene with gritty detail on a few focal points.
i suppose that's really how i recall most books anyway, not by the specific turns of a plot, but by the tone and the feel.
whatever is happening, i'm hooked.
Not quite as accomplished as "Second Skin" or later novels (his next novel, The Lime Twig would be his breakout book), this seemed like a warm up for Cormac McCarthy's books of the West, particularly Blood Meridian which it echoes in tone and hyper-realism. The prose style employed here is bravura and exhilerating.
Thick, chewy stew of a novel poured into a small bowl. Plenty of gristle. Salty, salty but shy on spice. Nearly choked a time or two. Wouldn't recommend it as an airplane or commuter train read but an excellent choice for solitary confinement or for those that are trapped under rubble.
strange western about dead water and one dam, about motobikes (once again) and one snake that bites a car, about one Sheriff who doesn`t like sex and one fetus instead of fish and about one corpse as a useless sacrifice.
strange western about dead water and one dam, about motobikes (once again) and one snake that bites a car, about one Sheriff who doesn`t like sex and one fetus instead of fish and about one corpse as a useless sacrifice.
Cap Leech is a good antecedent for McCarthy's Judge, except that things are even more discordant here.
Not so much a book as collection of strange words that have no business being put on the same page together.
It's never taken me so long to read a 150 page book.
I have no idea what it's about or what happened or who any of the characters are.
It's written arhythmically as if by someone who's never read a sentence out loud before.
I'd start reading and half a sentence in my mind would wander away and not come back for half a page.
I can't say I enjoyed it.
On the other hand, I've never read anything like it.
Another dreamscape, this one of the American southwest. No author can distort and twist reality with his prose like Hawkes...
Whenever I read a novel set in the American South, Faulkner usually becomes my measuring stick.
I think the reason is obvious: Toni Morrison, in a recent interview with BBC's Talking Books, praised the ability of Faulkner to not generalize people into stereotypes.
She contrasted Faulkner's ability to characterize with the stock, stereotyped characters seen even in works by Hemingway.
I believe a critic mentioned this and Finnegans Wake as lyrical works with no plot.
I've always believed that novels are written to tell stories, which is why I've a lot more respect for Ulysses than Finnegans Wake.
The white stomach hung full with all it had swallowed.' p132.Imagine I'm in an interrogation room with Cormac McCarthy.
When did you first discover and pilfer from my pal Mr. J.H?"Cormac shrugging shoulders retorts: "I only read science, Ricky boi.
I never read a lick of fiction in this here life a yonder."This being a Western of some conceivable fashion, I might cock the ball of a little derringer and speak slowly, eyeballs licking their sockets,"You lying sack of sorry shit."

This book is good, but SO dense, a more difficult read than Gravity's Rainbow, at least in my experience. It's a little bit Thomas Pynchon, a little bit Cormac McCarthy. The Lime Twig was more of a Hawkes page-turner.
Not rating this one either because I'm giving up. But, I have to say, there's a difference between a challenging book, and a flat-out boring one. At least, I think there is. I don't know. I'm a dumb-dumb. If you need me I'll be over in the corner making farting noises with my mouth.
So amazing
