https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2013.The_Jesus_Incident
This is my favorite book of all time.
I've read it numerous times and own several copies although it's out of print.
Now. Find a copy in a library or through ILL or on Alibris or somewhere else online and read it.
(Note: You do not need to read the first book in the series as it really doesn't add a whole lot and isn't very good.
I first read Destination: Void many years after I'd already decided this was my favorite book and didn't even think about it.)
With Dune Herbert created a whole new world--lots of things going on that were unusual and different, but he managed to give the reader enough information about that world that we knew what was up and we actually cared about Paul's journey to become Muad-Dib. In The Jesus Incident, we have another whole new world....and I just don't get it and I don't really care all that much.Well, okay.
And it has brought the humans and their clones (yeah, what?) to a new "paradise" planet where they will be tested--one last time.
Looking back, I wish I had read Destination: Void first.
This book is the sequel but can be read alone.
My nature will demand the first book before I can read the third, however.
There is a lot of material that takes a lot of thought within these books.To expect less is to sell Frank Herbert short.
It sounds lame to say, but being a scientist Herbert is thorough if he's anything.
His books do not read like fluff, even when they are more watered down or abstract than hard science (i.e. Dune, etc).
First off, this book is listed on Goodreads as Voidship #2.
That's like listing the Fellowship of the Rings as The Hobbit #2.
This is why I just re-read this book before passing it on to a friend.Did you ever play the old Civilization games?
I guarantee whoever wrote that, read these books.The series is deep and complex, as is any Herbert book.
He thinks so much about every aspect, nowhere more so than in Destination Void (Voidship #1), but I recommend you read this trilogy first, then go back and read Destination Void.
The trilogy itself is a wonderfully shifting, fantastic voyage.
'Destination: Void' was amazing in and of itself, but 'The Jesus Incident' took the whole of D:V's challenging concepts to another level! Absolutely amazing book, bursting with provocative ideas and multi-layered characters.
Almost as good as Dune. I love the Avata. I claimed the name...
The setting and the concept is interesting, and is a lot of what kept me listening, hoping to catch more of it, but...There was such a massive amount of description that seemed to be missing, and it felt like a crime given the opportunity provided by such a backdrop - completely foreign, a blank canvas, but left with just stick figures and basic shapes.
Almost the entire book felt like reading two guys' collection of these snippets - just rough, a draft, lacking, unpolished...with the intrigues and main characters identified but an ending not figured out yet.
The Jesus Incident is science fantasy full of characters and scenes lacking verisimilitude and has an awful conclusion that delivers a simplistic theological message.
Comparing God Emperor of Dune with The Jesus Incident makes it difficult to believe that Herbert had much to do with the writing of this book.
From the begining the reader is faced with the challenge of accepting that a ship has god-like powers and abilities.
A human using mental and organic telepathic powers to guide a space freightor in an emergency landing (into the sea or onto a beach - the writing isn't clear).
Those who've read Dune will recognize many of the themes in The Jesus Incident: leadership and how leaders manipulate society, scarcity of resources, civil/human/individual rights, ecology, and religion.
Rather, their inclusion is a vehicle to demonstrate religious violence and the brutality of which humans are capable.This novel can be read on its own as the start of The Pandora Sequence trilogy, or read after Destination: Void.
While both trilogies can be enjoyed well enough without reading their precursor novels, you'll probably enjoy them more if you do.The Jesus Incident is one of Herbert's best works, and very under-appreciated.
This is actually the first book I've read from the "Destination: Void" series, but the fact that it has a prequel doesn't cause that many problems. The new conditions (new planet, different environment, new characters etc) make this readable even if you skip the first book.If you've read "Dune" you'll probably recognize some of the grand themes in these series, from the religious aspect to tyrants and manipulations. But don't worry, this is not an alternative "Dune"; it's a whole new universe with its new (forms of old) problems and its new solutions.
If you've read and loved Dune, this is definitely worth a read. Herbert teams up with a poet (Bill Ransom) to tell a great sci-fi story, which I just now found out from wiki is the second in a four part series!Whoops I gotta read the first one ("Destination:Void"), and then re-read this one and the equally good sequel "The Lazarus Effect." And then read the final one ("The Ascension Factor").I have a lot of work to do.
Secondly, the authors do nothing to demonstrate those unlimited powers except that it can read human thoughts, so I will give it a 2 for premise.The form is perhaps the element that prevented me from finishing the novel.
All in all, my final rating for the novel is 2.5, rounding it up to a 3 stars on Goodreads system.+--------------------------+-----------------+| Criteria | Rating |+--------------------------+-----------------+|Premise | 2 |+--------------------------+-----------------+|Form | 1 |+--------------------------+-----------------+|Originality | 4 |+--------------------------+-----------------+|Characters | 1 |+--------------------------+-----------------+|Difficulty/Complexity | 2 |+--------------------------+-----------------+|Credibility | 1 |+--------------------------+-----------------+|Edition | 4 |+--------------------------+-----------------+|Total | 2.50 |+--------------------------+-----------------+For more details on how I rated and reviewed this novel, please read these guidelines.
To fully appreciate (and possibly understand) Frank Herbert's "The Jesus Incident", one should probably read his novel "Destination: Void", which I actually think is a better novel.
Raja Flattery, one of the four characters from the first novel, is awakened from his hyper-sleep on board the ship Earthling, now simply called Ship, which is run by the human-like conscious computer that Flattery helped create.
My guess is that Herbert and Ransom took turns writing the chapters.
While I loved "Avatar", I'm thinking Cameron probably should have thrown in some acknowledgments to Herbert and Ransom's novel in his film credits.
I admit, I have a tendency to latch onto little details, so I still vividly remember how the character of Waela was introduced as an awesome, powerful fighter; a survivor who through quick-thinking has managed to stay alive on a deadly planet...and oh, yeah, she hunches over a lot, because she's tall and men don't like tall women...WHAT??!!
well, an omnipotent spaceship, a frozen guy who changes his last name and becomes the devil, a poet that likes to talk to kelp and caress tentacled-hot-air-balloons, a female med-tech (who has to be told about atoms by the poet!!) that goes back in time and sees Jesus, some creepy old men plotting...something..., oh right, and someone named Jesus Lewis that doesn't seem to be of any particular importance...And that's just the half of it!
The Jesus Incident did not give me as much grace.
Where Dune's (or rather, the first three books') overarching exposition was on prescience and the future, the Jesus Incident had the same sort of monologues on godhood, consciousness, and 'the oneness of life'.
Herbert does this with consciousness, life, and goodness.
How was Jesus Ship's devil and Raja his own?
(hide spoiler)]In all I thought that there were excellent points made in the book and that the story was certainly something creative and unique.
How could you learn such an essence without experiencing its opposite?" -Ship
Ship does seem to possess god-like powers, and is on the verge of wiping out the human race unless humans figure out how to correctly 'WorShip.'Herbert weaves enough different themes here -- non-human intelligence (both human-made and alien), religion, ecology, genetic engineering, political power structures, psychological manipulation, cloning -- and likewise juggles a large enough cast of characters that the novel is close to 'Dune' in complexity.
However, none of the characters are as absorbing as the best characters in Dune, and the different themes are not quite as well blended as in that book.
My first pick was The Jesus Incident, which after reading it I found out is actually the sequel to Destination Void - D'oh!
Nevermind though, you don't need to read Destination Void in order to understand or enjoy The Jesus Incident.This book has a large cast of characters, but they had distinctive enough voices that they didn't all blur together.
The story deals with religion, atheism, environmental issues, sexuality, technology vs humanity, greed, and unrequited love.
The world building is not as well done as Dune, but the characters are very well developed.
It features clones, some sidewise questions about what determines a quality life [in regards to the clones] as well as are clones 'humans' or offshoots of humanity, genetic manipulation, artificial intelligence, some kind of religion, an alien planet with a powerfully strong alien intelligence, terraforming and colonization, "caste levels" between humans and clones, abuse(s) of power, limited resources [food], violence performed upon people to make them obedient and subservient, aspects of brainwashing, attempts at exploring some philosophical differences as well as why violence is found amidst peaceful religion(s), what may or may not be time travel, the "politics" of domination and manipulation through sex, and some weird sexual shenanigans [including three possible rapes and a strange copulation scene where it seems the local plant-life gets involved and mutually impregnates the woman with her male lover].(view spoiler)[The title is taken from a discussion where Ship is describing how it 'sent' a woman 'back in time' to the crucifixion of Jesus; Ship tells Thomas that "He" [It] has shown her [Hali Ekel] 'the Jesus Incident' at Golgatha (229).
Reporting periodically to Rob as I read this book, I noticed that from an outsider's view it could seem a bit incoherent.
It might be God.""Now it's about a poet.""Oh there is a Jesus, but Haysoos.
But they call them demons.""Oh well I guess now she got sent back in time to see Jesus get crucified.""The clones are rebelling.""Oh did I mention there's sentient kelp?""What's happening now?
With a superbaby."But it all seems to fit together when you actually read it.
I guess that's Frank Herbert for you.
Since The Godmakers and Dune I've tended to pick up those Frank Herbert novels which appear in resale shops and used bookstore sale shelves. I've been into science fiction since childhood, picked up an interest in religion as a young adult, and now favor writers who treat of both at once. While some of Herbert's books have been disappointments--especially the later Dune novels, this wasn't.
Gripping. Religious-based, like Dune, but very edgy and compelling. The savior of humanity and the choices and sacrifices made in the name of human survival. If you enjoyed Dune then you will absolutely love The Jesus Incident.
TJI warps into our reality a fresh new universe, while building on some of the story outlines from Destination Void.
Herbert and Ransom deliver a memorable tale conerning the nature of life, consciousness, spirituality, while overlaid with a story framework of extreme genetic manipulation in a hostile world.
Its not as draining as strategy/counterstrategy from the dune series but more around the gradual spiritual awakenment several of the characters go through.Yea theres some christianity stuff in there, but not enough to call this book a Space Christian opera.
There are seeds of some really good ideas here, and you can see the motifs carried over from Herbert's "Dune" days, featuring god-like beings and sciency mysticism.
It is a book with many, many characters and Herbert does a good job of getting us acquainted with them and keep it all in sync.
Overall however, I was left disappointed and quit the book.First of all, the gold-like central character was very unbelieveable, but I had this problem with God Emperor of Dune as well.
I could go on.What was most grating was realising why my teenage mind would love this book.
So this was frustrating and I almost didn't continue reading after a while.
I don't think I'll read on to the sequels.
The characters are so underdeveloped as to be cardboard cutouts and serve only as platforms for abstract pondering and philosophical meanderings.
The world felt underdeveloped, and the plot itself felt...stale?
The "message" or way of worshipping they eventually realized, that by holistically embracing the oneness and potential of humanity, they embrace Ship as god, felt like it is almost a given nowadays.
The fact that they achieved that understanding through something like an LSD trip and alien-assisted boning...
The challenge that the plot raises for the characters in this book is what is the right way to adore the Creator ( in this case the Ship).
So, in a way, also becoming a creator.
Another thing that i didn't really enjoyed was the pace of the book: although i like reading stories with a slow pace i thought in this case it was not that, it was more an inconsistency of the style across the chapters.
Overall, a great story for 1979, a good reading for 2017, but a bit too much of Christian references...
While I am a great admirer of Frank Herbert, and like many I believe 'Dune' to be one of the finest examples of sf world-building I have ever read; some of his novels fail to engage me with the same rigor as his majestic 'Dune' opus.
In 'The Jesus Incident', the initially antagonistic planet of Pandora is beautifully realized, with many of its truly strange and wonderful incumbents engendering vivid flashes in my appreciative mind, the actual yarn itself proved to be decidedly less enthralling.
The Jesus Incident, written by the author of Dune, is an exciting page-turner with a bit of everything.
And I do mean everything.
Creation, God, religion, the meaning of life...all of humanity's most important themes, playing out in an alternate universe.
Plus lots of weird, alien lifeforms in action-packed fantasy scenarios.
The movie Avatar must have been based on this book (although there are some important differences).
I definitely enjoyed this book.
My only complaint with this story is that it contains too many big ideas that are not adequately explored or explained.
It is thought-provoking but not entirely satisfying.
A very bizarre science fiction book that caught my interest and held it, but is deeply disturbing and even disgusting in parts--not really surprising considering Frank Herbert is one of the authors.
He is so good at exploring humanity in ways that are strange and foreign yet somehow familiar at the same time.
I'm sure this is a book I will be thinking about for a while and it is worth reading through to the end, even though at times it seemed a bit repetitive and bogged down in the nightmarish sequences in the middle of the plot before it rises towards the climax and resolution.
Here starts a 'reboot' if you will of the WorShip series with a new trilogy following 'Destination: Void', Herbert receiving help from 'rookie' Bill Ransom.Definitely a good start to the trilogy, a step up from previous novel. Here come an interesting setting, cool aliens, pretty solid sci-fi concepts overall.Only things wrong were the very difficult style and the convoluted and not very interesting development of events.
Frank Herbert is SUCH a great writer! I just was so/so with this book. I think I am going to come back to the Pandora Sequence to read the rest some other time. I am going to read the Dune series next. I first read Destination Void which is a stand alone but kind of a back story. I really liked that book! The characters were much more engaging. Just with this one.. to me the plot could have been better in my opinion. I like Frank Herbert as a writer but this one didn't do it for me.
