https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2024256.Maigret_et_la_jeune_morte
Sad sack Joseph Lognon, a recurring character who is so unlucky and self-pitying that he’s earned the nickname “Inspector Hard-Done-By,” pits himself against Detective Chief Inspector Maigret in the investigation of a dead young girl found in evening clothes in Montmatre. However, Georges Simenon really does sort of phone in the mystery, while dwelling on the theme of how unfair life can be. Usually, I enjoy the philosophical elements that Simenon sprinkles in most of his Maigret novels — and I still did in this case — but there wasn’t enough mystery here to carry it off.
Set almost entirely in Paris with links by phone and records across France, Europe and North America it is an investigation that shows Maigret at his best.There is the clear support of his team of detectives and criminal support.
However he remains a talented and dogged detective who knows his stuff.Half way through this case it appears Lognon has got the drop on Maigret and seems to be one step closer to solving the crime.It seems the chief inspector's dream about a chess game against Lognon is becoming a reality and Lognon could out manoeuvre his chief.
Simenon’s non-Maigret books should be considered important literary works.
His Maigrets were how he got paid.My struggles to learn French continue, recently with facile editions of Maigret et la jeune morte and La Rue Aux Trois Poussins/Le Mari De Mélie.
This edition of Maigret et la jeune morte comes with audio as well.
I found the voice of the narrator very irritating, so as yet I can’t say if I have gained anything from that aspect of the book.
I suspect that all French narrators have the same effect on me; certainly I always hate them at the movies.rest here: https://alittleteaalittlechat.wordpre...
Dramatisation with Denholm ElliottWL The Man Who Watched Trains Go By3* Maigret in Society3* The Blue RoomWL My Friend Maigret (Maigret #31)3* The Saint-Fiacre Affair3* Maigret in Montmartre3* Maigret Has Scruples3* Maigret Bides His Time3* Striptease3* Maigret Sets A Trap3* Maigret and the Young Girl
***1/2.The body of a young woman is discovered on the streets of Paris outside of a nightclub.
The only clues the police had to go on were her clothes.
When the police decided that they weren’t getting anywhere, other events that occurred at around the same time as this death provided additional clues.
This is a good novel from Simenon involving police procedural methods to doggedly tracking down the facts behind such clues.
Maigret and his crew soon learn that the young woman was only an innocent bystander in the plot she was cast into; a bystander who ultimately lost her life.
Depois de ter feito umas comprinhas na feira do livro de Lisboa a porto editora ofereceu-me dois exemplares da velha coleção vampiro para apelar aos leitores ao reaparecimento desta coleção agora renovada e não podia ter ficado mais feliz.Este é um livrinho curtinho, um caso interessante sobre uma rapariga misteriosa que é encontrada assassinada à beira da estrada. Maigret é o investigador principal do caso acompanhado pelo seu parceiro Langdon.Acredito que quem goste de Agatha Christie irá com certeza gostar deste livro.
I've read it for studying purposes. It has upped my French a bit, I hope. As far as the plot goes, I have found it somewhat anticlimactic and think that the solution to the mystery came out from nowhere.
Il mio primo incontro con Maigret (e con Simenon) è stato, in senso non letterale, una mia lettura d'ombrellone.
Perchè è costruito unicamente su una serie di dialoghi, cosa che all'inizio può anche intrigare e aiutare a focalizzare l'attenzione sempre sul delitto (il che non fa male), ma che, alla lunga, stanca un po'.
Anche perchè manca tutto il resto, ambientazione, caratterizzazione dei personaggi (primo fra tutti Maigret, che infatti risulta un po' inspido), mistero.
Abbiamo dialoghi, dialoghi ovunque e in successione, fra Maigret e suoi colleghi, fra Maigret e i personaggi che interroga, fra Maigret e la moglie, ma poi?
A well constructed police procedural with Maigret on the trail of the unknown killers of an unknown young girl, found dead one night in Paris wearing in a hired evening dress.
The complication is that a colleague of his, Inspector Lognon, known to everyone as "Inspector Hard Done By", would dearly love to solve this case himself.
Maigret feels sorry for him, but nevertheless Maigret's skill and common sense win through, and Inspector Logon is "hard done by" again.
The beauty of Maigret's method is the way in he painstakingly reconstructs the girls life, her history, her movements, and her motivations.
Another good Maigret - well-plotted, humane.
A convincing picture of Paris low-life, and of one of Maigret's colleagues, the type that got him the nickname, even from the criminal classes, of 'Inspector Hard-done-by.'The GR blurb:'When the body of a young girl is found in a Montmartre park, Maigret must team up with a rival investigator to bring her killer to justice.
The forty-fifth book in the new Penguin Maigret series.Maigret and fellow inspector Lognon clash in their investigations into the murder of an unknown young woman in Paris.

A sad little story about a sad young woman who comes to Paris, doesn’t fit in, and is killed by accident because of an attempted good deed by her father, a conman who she doesn’t even know, to get money to her.
The foreground plot among the police is the story of Lognon, the sad police inspector who is always down at the mouth and never quite succeeds.
Here he falls just a little short yet again as he doggedly follows a false lead - the more acute Maigret, who has gotten into the head of fhe dead girl, figures out why the lead is false and solves the case.
A great book for a French learner -- some of the language is antiquated, as would be expected by the date it was written, but the story is easy to follow and Maigret repeats the details of the case to himself multiple times, in case you need a refresher (as is the way of detective novels). As for the story itself, it has a bleak and affecting ending, as Maigret takes his time to understand la jeune morte.
This 'Maigret' novel has an utterly devastating ending, one of the strongest and bleakest I have yet read in this series, second only to the ending of 'A Man's Head'. This book is quite moving and unsettling and it is interesting to watch Inspector Lognon grow into a character as real in his own way as Maigret himself. Another excellent Simenon novel!
No me pareció tan malo hasta que llegué a las últimas páginas y me decepcionó completamente.
un Maigret un po' sottotono ma non soltanto...direi che tutto il romanzo sembra navigare in un grigiore depressivo che permea tutta la storia.
Lo stesso Maigret si adegua a questo scenario, lasciandosi cullare da queste torbide acque e praticamente trasportare senza apparente sforzo alla risoluzione del caso.
Se dal punto di vista atmosferico in romanzo rende bene, dal punto di vista della lettura, spesso ci si trova a sbadigliare parecchio vista la totale mancanza di azione o del colpo di scena maigrettiano, o forse è proprio questa atmosfera opprimente del romanzo a renderci apatici a nostra volta...
Один з детективів Жоржа Сіменона, прочитаний мною давно польською мовою.
This is not for anyone disinclined to be reminded that life is anything but fair. It is a tautly plotted and convincing mystery story in which Maigret is invloved in a race with a junior colleague to unravel the mystery of a young woman's death. The colleague is ahead of Maigret for pretty well the entire story, but does he beat the Master in the race to unmask the killer? What do you think!
This isn't one of the best Simenon books. The story unfolds without really catching interest, or it didn't manage at all to make me care for what happens. A murder happens, then things add up to it, and it takes a lot of time until you get your explanations. Still, it's a book good to have, when you have read everything else and are stuck in a train.
este é o segundo livro que leio em francês, na versão 'très facile' da cle international. a história é bem mais interessante do que o primeiro livro que li (la morte amoureuse), e o francês fácil torna o livro gostoso de ler. a história é um policial bacana, que te prende até o final, e achei que tem cara dos mistérios da agatha christie. gostei :-)
Three and a half starsMy English edition titled "Maigret and the Young Girl" Another good but lightweight story from Simenon. Not one of his best. There was more detection than usual and less of the atmospherics. Although there were some clues it wasn't possible for the reader to know who killed the young girl of the title.I find the character of Lognon difficult to believe in.
This novel shows well the way Maigret works. A woman is found dead in the street one night. She has no identification. Who is she? How did she get here? Why is she wearing a rented dress? Where is her bag? Slowly, Maigret and his team learn all about her past, but it takes much time for them to understand her last evening and what lead to her death.
This is the first Simenon book I've ever read, and I enjoyed it. (In English, and the title was Maigret and the Young Girl). Very dated with everyone smoking all the time, and with no mobile phones, computers etc. But still good.
Although I don’t agree with André Gide who considered Simenon “le plus grand de tous, le plus vraiment romancier que nous ayons en France aujourd’hui,” this was another great read. Just be prepared, though, for a very, very sad, bitter, troubling ending.
2,5
A lonely faceless girl is murdered in Paris, the victim of greed and indifference. Maigret reconstructs who she is and finds her killer.
