https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/159346.Advise_and_Consent
Book Circle Reads 25Rating: 4* of fiveThe Publisher Says: ADVISE AND CONSENT is a study of political animals in their natural habitat and is universally recognized as THE Washington novel.
It begins with Senate confirmation hearings for a liberal Secretary of State and concludes two weeks later, after debate and controversy have exploded this issue into a major crisis."I can recall no other novel in which there is so well presented a president's dilemma when his awful responsibility for the nation's interest conflicts with a personal code of good morals." (The New York Times)My Review: They's fags in this book!
Lets see- a controversial appointment to Secretary of State is voted on by the Senate-seems I have heard that somewhere before-LOLDialogue was brilliant which is how I judge most books- well deserving of the Pulitzer it won and was based on a Wyoming US Senator who shot himself after his son was caught in a homosexual sting with police in the 1950;s.Strongly recommend this and not just for political junkies.
(My curiosity was whetted by having seen the 1962 movie adaptation, starring Walter Pidgeon and Henry Fonda, on TV --the book, of course, proved to be considerably deeper and more substantial than the film, and the latter simplifies a great deal and takes various liberties to ratchet up the drama.)Unlike most of his press colleagues, Drury self-identified with the political Right, mostly in terms of a strong anti-Communism and a preference for a hawkish foreign policy based on a Cold War perception of the Soviet Union as existential menace to humanity and the U.S. as the natural guarantor of the world's freedom and justice.
The New York Times Book Review stated, "Advise and Consent will stand as one of the finest and most gripping political novels of our era..." The book stayed on that paper's bestseller list for over 100 weeks!It is the story of a fictional American President's attempt to put a new Secretary of State into his cabinet, an action which requires confirmation by the Senate.
(You could not pay me enough to be a Senator and I was confirmed in my belief that democracy in practice differs widely from its high flown ideals.)Advise and Consent is not the pageturner its fans claim it to be, but it is a dramatic story still read today and is considered to have started a genre: political novels set in Washington, DC.
I read this book one other time, many decades ago, probably in high school or when I was in the Navy.
All I remembered about it was that I had read it once, and that it was a political novel about a Senate confirmation battle in Washington, which could be guessed from the title.
Well, I read it again and enjoyed it thoroughly.
The only part that clanked was his treatment of the race to the moon, which was understandable because that part was still a decade in the future when he wrote.
His treatment of that was really off.
It’s a paragraph that could have been written in today’s climate.Alan Drury received the Pulitzer Prize in 1960 for his fictional account of the detailed interactions of the Senate and the White House around a Secretary of State cabinet confirmation.
Despite being written almost sixty years ago, there are some obvious parallels in this book to the recent cabinet and Supreme Court nominee hearings in the Senate.
The book is seeing a bit of a relevance revival based on the 24/7 news cycle coverage of the confirmation hearings during the Trump presidency.Robert A.
Leffingwell is the fictional nominee and his confirmation process is the basis for the book.
The drawing of Anderson is touching and heartfelt for any age, but cannot help but be more so for being part of a book written for a popular audience in the 1950s.Every once in a while Drury's love of the Senate overtakes him, and reading the book becomes not a little like reading pages of the Congressional Record (something I do enough of already), and sometimes his anti-communist fervor becomes too prominent, but on the whole this is a balanced, intelligent and loving look at the Senate and the country it represents, as told through characters that one really cares about.
To add to the confusion, soon information is brought forth that Leffingwell may - or may not - have been involved with the Communist Party at one point (remember: this book came out at the height of the Cold War)."Advise and Consent" is told through the points-of-view of four main characters: Democrat Bob Munson is the President's always-loyal right-hand-man who the President entrusts to see that Leffingwell's nomination gets passed; Seab Coolley is an ageing battle-axe Republican Senator whose firebrand ways cause lots of tumult on Capitol Hill, despite his essential faithfulness to his fellow senators, regardless of what side of the aisle they sit on; Brigham Anderson is a Democrat who nonetheless is driven by acting out of fairness first and foremost -- and his fairness tells him to go against the President and try to defeat Leffingwell; and Orrin Knox is a senator who does what's best for the senate and for the country, but who can't shake the bitterness over losing the Democratic Presidential bid against the President who he is now forced to obey.
Between all the names and not much plot development, I could only stomach about 20 pages a day.
However, once Book 3 rolled around (a little past the halfway point), things took a turn, and the trivialities, scandals, and inner workings of Washington DC were on full display.
Having dozens and dozens of names thrown at me in the beginning was initially jarring, but I grew to appreciate the central characters in their own ways over time.
At points I felt somebody was a good, honest politician, and all of a sudden a new chapter unfolded.
The length of time between page turns ensured that my concentration remained firmly fixed on what was rapidly becoming a compulsive read; and less and less on the distractive act of physically moving paper from right to left.
I look forward to repeated readings bringing forth subtleties that I have undoubtedly overlooked this first time through.
No. The tangible progress of the perfectly constructed plot marching, weaving, and, at times, racing through the fine paper pages of a fifty-three year old book is a memorable pleasure in itself.
Allen Drury won the Pulitzer Prize for this book in 1960. If you are a political junkie like me you will love this book about a Senate confirmation process for a Secretary of State nominee. The writing is superb and is very similar to what we see in current day on Senate confirmations. Politics has not changed much over the years. I give this book 5 stars.
There are good parts of this book--it won a Pulitzer (overturning the committee, as it would 13 years later to deny Gravity's Rainbow, so, grain of salt), and some of the descriptions of pain and fatigue of the politickLing life are very evocative and telling.Overall, though, politically it's detestable, and even if I agreed with it, its lionization of Senators Doing American Things with honor and dignity is incredibly stupid, especially considering the outcome--reasonable people disagree, but one senator, a shouting, unhinged lunatic, is without nuance and exists to be castigated by absolutely everyone, as does the mustache-twirling villain (?) of the piece.
All layers of the advice and consent process are covered—from gripping hearing testimony to vitriolic floor debates, from the machinations of the White House to the cloakroom deals in the Senate.Not only does Advise and Consent access the political dynamics of the Senate’s advice and consent to presidential nominations, the novel also delves deeply into the personal stories of the characters who must manage and judge this process.
It is a story that brings together strands of different actual events and real characters to create a composite vision of the U.S. Senate and its workings in the area of advice and consent.
http://nwhyte.livejournal.com/1556070.htmlAnother little reading project of mine: as well as reading the best-selling novels of 100 year ago, as I have done this year and last year, I decided to try the best-selling novel of 50 years ago, a political tale by a long-serving Washington journalist, which soon after (1962) became a film starring Henry Fonda and Charles Laughton (the latter's last role before he died).The plot concerns the nomination of a new Secretary of State by an ailing President whose party controls both Senate and House; the nomination runs into difficulties because of the nominee's alleged Communist past.
I enjoyed it at the time, but I wasn't terribly interested in politics 'way back then so I really didn't get the bigger picture during that first read.If you are into politics (and who isn't these days?) and especially if you'd like to know how Congress -- the Senate in particular -- works, read this.
This book is like that.But, oh, what a story!
I wanted more!I came back to this book because I had read a column in the Wall Street Journal many months ago by a columnist named Terry Teachout.
I read it several times, and had to rest before going on to the final section.Interestingly given recent news, one of the underlying conflicts is, when are immoral past deeds hypocritical and when are they irrelevant?
The real underlying theme is, how best to serve?
What does it mean to be a servant of the people?If you want to enjoy possibly the only Senatorial procedural thriller ever written, and almost certainly the best, I cannot recommend this 800 page novel highly enough.
There is an elaborate formality in the Senate that is part show, part tradition and part just a practical way of keeping the wheels of government turning The book felt more than a little dated in the way it dealt with homosexuality, communism, relations with Russia, the place of the United States in the world and the general tenor of politics.
I suspect that today the level of polarization and relentless attack is much greater, though I much of how the Senate works is probably still the same.
And I felt that the story dragged a bit in his section.
It provides an inside look at the workings of the Senate, at least as it was in the late 1950s.
The way in which Washington works, both politically and governmentally, is shown, and in a very good read.
Two valuable additional reasons for reading this book: while the word homosexual is never mentioned, one of the subplots includes insight into the way homosexuality was viewed in the U.S. at the time.
The other reason for reading is to remind ourselves of the way in which the cold war impacted life and politics, and the great fear of future cataclysmic war which affected decision-making in so many ways.
While Drury's style is a bit repetitious now and then, especially with character's tics and quirks, it was a rich little soap opera about confirmation hearings and all the grandstanding, political haymaking, and behind-the-scenes lives of the politicians.
It was titillating for the era, and he naturally doesn't have an HEA, but he was among the more sympathetic characters.It's definitely a book of its time, and I can see why it won the Pulitzer.
It's a totally engrossing read and takes the reader back to a time before the political parties and regions flip-flopped.The film version starring Charles Laughton, Henry Fonda, Peter Lawford, and many others was a surprising disappointment compared to the book.

An evocative portrayal of Washington politics - Peccadiloes, leadership, stunning arrogance, and a sense of public service all mixed into a hodge podge of a narrative. I loved the way intrigue is explained in this book and the machinery of government doing all it can to sometimes help and other times derail the process of providing basic services to its people. On the whole, a bit of a labored read but enough to keep it moving at a nice pace.
I thought it was hot stuff then. Now its just sad that it's so mild compared to current Washington politics.

That one of the characters has a skeleton in his closet is not a surprise, although the skeleton that came to light was one that certainly would end someone's career back in this time period, and sadly could today too, given how vicious our political scene has become.
Even though this story is now sixty years old, parts of it seem relevant to today's politics: there is much talk about doing things "for the good of the country." Just this morning, on one of the network news shows, a Senator uttered that exact same phrase, making me wonder if anything ever really changes when you get down to it.
Don’t think that’s how things work, unless the defendant is representing himself, fool for a client, that.
And I’m not sure it was when Drury wrote it, either, because I just don’t see the Senate operating like that back then.
Oh sure, there was, and still is, the Old Boy Network (now populated by Old Girls, too) and prickly senses of overblown importance easily recognizable today, but it’s like Drury took liberties with procedure and rules to make his larger point.
So I’m not sure why anyone would want to read this book today.
This is a loooong book, long and slow: you can assume the first third is just about setting the background, the second third starts seeing some seeds of action and only in the last third the novel picks up and becomes really engaging.
But, if you have the patience to go through the lengthy and slow initial parts, the book can be rewarding.
Allen Drury obviously had the same outlook on books as other journalist-authors bound by set column inches and relentless deadlines: "Look at all this room!"Being new to the publishing world at this point, with Advise and Consent his first novel, Drury's writing is often beset by deep pockets of pomposity, massive mountainous paragraphs that few other authors have attempted to scale, that make one's eyes glaze over in a combination of "Didn't I just read that?" and "What the heck happened?
I enjoyed the ins and outs, the highs and lows -- I think (no spoilers) the author makes you care about the characters, even when tragedy strikes.
Only two complaints - the author is a bit to crazy about foreshadowing -- I was often screaming at the book, "Don't tell me what happens yet!!" Oh well, not often a story tries to spoil itself.
My second complaint was the straight narrative in portions of the book of explaining backstory.
BUT -- I enjoyed this book and certainly recommend it to anyone who enjoys a good drama.
Wow.Okay, so the blurb for the book is that the president tends to take to the air waves to make pronouncements.
The senate begins debate and the president tries to bargain -- offer "gifts" (or bribes) to senators who are determined to vote against his pick.
Other senators join in their own way to push through the nomination by circulating stories about the people who are against the nominee.
There is even a senator who has to fly out of town the night of the vote because his daughter is getting married.
The book was published in 1959.
I actually read this second, not realizing the first sequel, A Shade of Difference, was a sequel to this book.
The South Carolina senator against the nominee goes to great lengths to discredit him, including standing ready to reveal a homosexual relationship of someone in his own party.
It was a good look at what really goes on, but some of it a little far fetched.
I didn't like the way the author gave at least a hundred pages at the end with false endings setting up the sequel.
Drury was, prior to becoming an author, a UPI senate correspondent, so the details are from what he actually saw.
