https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/13627214-the-hollow-men
Their voice scare them that no one should hear them- it occurs not to them, whether reverberations of sound waves they give birth convey anything if at all they do, they doubt their existence- as if their being not shone from the darkness of nothingness; blood doesn't flow in their veins or they don't have veins underneath sheath covering the structure stuffed with skeleton and bones.
They grope together one last time, the justice of God may send people Paradiso or Hell  but for our hollow men, even the scorching gates of Hell  do not make way for they are just effigy s.
I do think that Eliot meant to include secularism into his aspect of hollowness, but it needn’t be read that way; in fact, it can be any cultural situation that espouses “hollowness” , and it can be any lack of deep values.This is what makes the poem so classic; because of its bareness, its bleakness, its muted though deeply effective, controlled imagery, it can be used as a basis for almost any contextual interpretation that you’d care to tack on to it.
Between the conception And the creation Between the emotion And the response Falls the ShadowLife is very longBetween the desire And the spasm Between the potency And the existence......I read this, and get hit by countless images, multiple voices and associations, and a sense of closeness, being all part of the hollow individuality, the  shape without form, shade without colour, paralysed force, gesture without motion ; oblivious to the bang and the whimper.Way to go, Eliot.Sept 22, 18* Also on
Between the conception And the creation Between the emotion And the response Falls the ShadowLife is very longBetween the desire And the spasm Between the potency And the existence......I read this, and get hit by countless images, multiple voices and associations, and a sense of closeness, being all part of the hollow individuality, the 
  shape without form, shade without colour, paralysed force, gesture without motion
; oblivious to the bang and the whimper.Way to go, Eliot.Sept 22, 18* Also on my blog.
Between the idea And the reality Between the motion And the act Falls the ShadowFor Thine is the KingdomBetween the conception And the creation Between the emotion And the response Falls the ShadowLife is very longBetween the desire And the spasm Between the potency And the existence Between the essence And the descent Falls the ShadowFor Thine is the KingdomFor Thine is Life is For Thine is theThis is the way the world endsThis is the way the world endsThis is the way the world endsNot with a bang but a whimper.(view spoiler)[That last image is the Pale Blue Dot photo of Earth taken by Voyager 1, a composite photo of the solar system taken approximately 4 billion miles away.
...The eyes are not hereThere are no eyes hereIn this valley of dying stars...
The main problem with this poem (as Bukowski pointed out in his day) is the ending: it was poetic and clairvoyant...
until the atomic bomb.
That ending ruins the whole experience of the poem for me, as the flawed intuition that it is.
Pretty much everything that happens in our lives may end with a whimper, from our relationships to our very own lives themselves, but the world...
could have been finished already because of nuclear weapons various times (Chomsky points out some cases throughout history in his book "Who rules the world?"), which means a total "bang".B--!
"Shape without form, shade without colour,Paralysed force, gesture without motion" - lines 11-12 Nothing like a good T.S. Eliot poem. I mean it is giving you everything and very little. To get the full effect of this poem it has to be recited out loud or to your self--but it has to be recited. "The eyes are not here There are no eyes here In this valley of dying stars In this hollow valley" - lines 52-55The poem is like most modernist work from this period, being concerned with WWI and its after
"The eyes are not here 	There are no eyes here 	In this valley of dying stars 	In this hollow valley" - lines 52-55The poem is like most modernist work from this period, being concerned with WWI and its aftermath.
In it we are given a descent into the underworld(s) a la Dante which is standard of most Eliot's work (try to name a volume of Eliot's poetry that does not allude to Dante) and it gives a very short but beautiful imagery of becoming and of being undone as "hollow men" often are.
Fawkes, Brutus, and Joseph Conrad's Kurtz are the titular "Hollow Men".
Our dried voices, when We whisper together Are quiet and meaningless As wind in dry grass Or rats' feet over broken glass In our dry cellar Shape without form, shade without colour, Paralysed force, gesture without motion; Those who have crossed With direct eyes, to death's other Kingdom Remember us-if at all-not as lost Violent souls, but only As the hollow men The stuffed men.
I read this in a Norton's anthology a very long time ago...
it so filled my brain with images that it took root in my subconscious.
A few years after reading it, I started drawing and painting a series I called The Hollow Men...
they have since evolved into much happier creations in my people of the land paintings.
All this to say that The Hollow Men is not a story for those who want simple diversions, it will grab your attention and rattle your imagination.
Then it will find a home from which to grow in your subconscious.
Good luck and good reading.M.
I Read the whole poem and still loved it !
Bunch of people full of sins, full of mistakes, dreams maybe or hope.
You can't actually know if god has forsaken them or they have forsaken him, the situation in which they are in, I believe, is a sacrifice from both parties.Eliot's succeeded in creating a state of physical and psychological suffering, so the reader can realize that those hollow men are aching from the inside and out, like the Dead Men in Pirates of The Caribbean.
Moreover, I do not lean to the idea that "Death's dream kingdom" is heaven per se; maybe it's the thing that we aspire to complement our lack, our weakness, and our inability, which makes us less hollow.
''This is the way the world ends Not with a bang but a whimper.''After finish this poem, the melancholy made an echo in my heart and my soul feels sad.
This is the way the world endsNot with a bang but with a whimper" The Hollow Men is primarily about a theme very obvious after being repeated in its imagery of ghosts,feeling of being useless and the descriptions of the afterlife.
(This happens to be a quote from Joseph Conrad's Heart of Darkness  something I found out while researching the poem online.)  We are the hollow menWe are the stuffed men  Written during World War I the poem seems to speak of people who are soulless and purposeless as if their mere existence isn't significant enough.
The men can't speak and are unspoken to.
I really didn’t like it because it was really wordy, and hard to figure what theme the poet was getting at.
I liked it because it was hard to decipher what the words meant, which kept me thinking about it for hours.Plot Summary:I’m not really sure what the poem is actually referring to, but this is what I comprehended it to be: In the first part, the poet describes the aftermath of a battle.
In the second part, I believe the poet is talking about what Europe was after World War I.
I think in the very first stanza, the poet shows how children just keep on playing, while the world has no future.
Although Eliot was famous for including allusions of all kinds in his poems, he was opposed to the annotation or adaptation of his works.
He wrote in a letter in 1962, "I will not allow any academic critic and there are plenty of these in America only too willing) to provide notes of explanation to be published with my poems...
I should be allowing interpretation of the poem to be interposed between me and my readers." Ironically, I found this quote in the new Faber & Faber edition, which is stuffed with annotations.
With respect for Eliot, sometimes it helps to have a little background, although I agree that the first encounter with a poem should be unmediated.
Meh.The problem is not in every single line, but in the simple declaratives (We are the X, This is the Y, This is the Z). It is hard to get past those famous, dominant lines. Sections II and IV have none of them and are better for it. Section V takes a startling, different form--until the final four lines.
This is one of the greatest poems I’ve ever read. It got me through a really dark place in my life while I was in high school. In a way it became one of my coping mechanisms. I had little print out of it everywhere and I’d read it methodically. I highly recommend it. It’s not very long but it says a lot.
Fundamentally a transitional piece, and partially a rehash of "Waste Lands"-era issues but drawing ineluctably towards the Anglican mysticism that will become the topic and obsession of Eliot's monumental "Four Quartets".
Very powerful poem. Great, dark imagery and use of everyday, childish things to create a somber, creepy atmosphere.
Nothing like this poem.
This is one of my favorite poems.
I very music enjoyed the Hollow Men. We went over it in AP English class, and it is the first thing I have enjoyed from the reading portion of the class.
This poem talks in riddles, which can be difficult yet incredibly fun to decode.
Eliot wrote this poem shortly before he lost his sanity.
It is thick with allusions to biblical references due to his connection to the Anglo Church.
I particularly enjoyed the format in which the poem was written: exactly 100 lines.
Overall, I would recommend this poem to anyone who enjoys poetry and well written works.
“The Hollow Men,” though it came ten years after “Prufrock,” shares many sentiments with it. In both, rats are mentioned to sully the scene. In both, takes place a painful struggle for truth. Ten years later, Eliot is still full of doubt and feels compelled to avoid things. Ten years later, he is still searching for something to hold onto. “The Hollow Men” also shares similarities with “The Waste Land,” which preceded it by three years. In this poem, Eliot still identifies with the wasteland or
Eliot considers, then, that those who have died consider us “the hollow men,/ The stuffed men.” (Hollow Men, Lines 17-18) One wonders, then, if the straw is indeed a place holder, if those who die feel full.
This poem feels hopeless, thanks in no small part to “This is the way the world ends/ Not with a bang but a whimper,” (Hollow Men, Lines 97-98) but Eliot's outlook has clearly brightened since “Prufrock.” If nothing else, “The Hollow Men” at least admits there is a way for things to turn out well.
Dark, beautiful, thought provoking, grotesque, cerebral. All the things we look up to.
"Lips that would kiss."
"This  is  the  way  the  world  ends  Not  with  a  bang  but  a  whimper."
"This is the way the world ends. Not with a bang but a whimper."
Well, here's a poem of despair and depression cranked all the way up to eleven. If you identify yourself as a goth, I'd imagine you'd love this poem.
Brutal.
