https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/3799.The_Dolls_House

I have a thing for living dolls.
I guess it's the combination of allegory and childlike whimsy that appeals to me.This story perfectly captures the joy of dollhouses as well as the essence of childhood.
I remember how my dolls had personalities that I hadn't consciously created.
I just sort of sensed them.
Godden taps into that sense in the most delightful way!
--But it's not all whimsy and roses.
There's a touch of melancholy to the narrative as well.
There's so much to this little book!
It works on many levels.
It resonates at any age.And I adore Tottie.
I read the first few chapters and was rather captivated.
Yet, at the same time, I felt melancholy the enitre time and decided to stop reading.
The dolls are not happy being with girls who love them, in the shoeboxes the girls provide as homes because they cannot afford a real doll's house.
The dolls long for a real doll's house.
This is my first experience of reading Rumer Godden and it's a book very much set in its time with one, slightly surprising element which is a scene of death and loss in a book that I would argue is for quite young children.
Although the death is that of a doll, this would not detract from the impact as the story itself revolves around the life of a small family of dolls who are owned and loved by two young sisters.
I never did get one, but then I think the fantasy was better than the reality.Which is why The Doll's House has always been a comforting favorite of mine.
My favorite part is not reading about the dolls, but how the girls and their mother cleaned up the 100-year-old dollhouse, refurnishing it and washing the carpets and so forth.
That such things can be loved and kept safe for so long just fascinates me.Of course, this is Rumer Godden, so the story and characters are beautiful as well--simple, maybe too simple, and I think modern readers may feel talked down to, but it's that simplicity that makes the story work.
When Tottie is there, she sees the old doll that she used to live with back when she was owned by the Great-Great Aunt, Marchpane.
Somebody figures out that Marchpane belonged to the same old house that Tottie did, so she is sent to live with Emily and Charlotte.
The theme is compelling to the "real world" as well as the fantasy world because children can relate to getting new toys and pushing old ones away and then realizing how much they missed their old toys.
A very, nasty doll moves into a dollhouse & affects the nice family of dolls that already reside there. The story is subtle but delves into such dark & complex matters as evil narcissistic personality, trauma, female social society, manipulation, love & sacrifice.
I have to add that I have NOT read this but my little sister used to read out loud and I heard most of it. It kept her amused for ages which meant she left me alone.Useless fact (I'm 30 minutes older than her)
A lovely little book that reminded me a lot of my childhood.
The imagery in this book is lovely.It's just a bit melancholy, and I don't think I would have liked it if I had read it when I was small.
This is a fantastic book about imagination. Get the edition with Tasha Tudor illustrations. Reread it as I am trying to write something about the dollhouse I grew up with. An important book of my childhood.
Not for those young ones sensitive to tragedy, even of the doll variety. Told mostly through the perspective of a family of dolls, with parts thru the two little girls who are their owners.
I want to share these with others so that hopefully they can find the magic that I did in these stories.When I was young, a book I kept coming back to was The Dolls' House, by Rumer Godden.
Tottie is a hundred years old or so (I can't remember exactly) and belonged to the girl's great-great aunt, and she remembers the doll house she once lived in.
"I am a little of that tree."I used to love this book when I was younger, and yet every time it came into my head (as it tends to do - it sticks with you) I was seized by an inexplicable dread.
I expected to like it, because of the strong nostalgia attached to it, but I also expected it not to be as good as I remembered, because that tends to happen when you revisit things you loved as a child.
If anything, it's better than I remembered.Tottie is a beautiful, melancholy little book.
I was brought up on all her doll books, and loved them.
I was about eight or ten when my Mom gave them to me, they fuelled my love for reading and I doubt I'd be reading as much as I do today if it weren't for them.The Dolls' House is the first book I remember crying to.
I say it's a children's book, but I think it can be read by anyone at any age.I didn't want to be a hoarder, but I've found it very hard leaving my dolls and their house behind, after growing up reading these.
One of my favorites from childhood. The theme that beautiful doesn't always equal good or kind is an important one to learn, and the lesson of self-sacrifice took my breath away when I first read the ending as a child. I couldn't believe what had happened! Part of me felt loss and wished that the author hadn't let that happen; the other part of me realized that it made sense and was actually beautiful though sad.
This is the kind of book I loved as a child -- the inner lives of toys -- and at nearly fifty, my tastes haven't changed. A delightful story of a doll family, told in shifting third-person-limited points of view: the dolls' and their owners'. There is surprising and subtle wisdom here, too, and perfect illustrations by Tasha Tudor. Very glad I finally got around to this.
Interesting little book written mostly from the perspective of a mixed-matched family of dolls. I found myself a little nervous when I started to read it; probably stemming from an irrational fear of dolls I had when I was little. ;) So funny how those things hang on. There was suspense, sadness, joy, and a few little lessons thrown in. Enjoyable book, perfect for girls ages 8 and up.
A special book. Both happiness and sadness within. Tootie, a wooden farthing doll, is wise and kind. The observes the other dollhouse dolls and also the human children who have human foibles. This is the edition illustrated by Tasha Tudor.
I liked it but felt it was too violent to love.
*RECOMMENDED BY TEHILA R-F
Imagine my delight when I awoke on Christmas morning & my parents had bought it for me.The story in this book is similar but it is the dolls that covet a proper home-they live in a shoe box-as the story is set in 1945 money was scarce & a dolls house was a luxury.There are 4 dolls & one miniature dog that live in their shoe box owned by 2 sisters.
Tottie used to have a home-a Victorian house when she lived with the sisters Great Aunt Laura.
A downer and a disappointment, considering that it is supposed to be some kind of classic book.
The lesson seems to be that, if you are a ruthless bitch, you can get pretty much anything that you want and to hell with anyone else.
The illustrations are lovely but they are quite small and don't make up for my disappointment with the story itself.There are any number of better doll story books; Hitty, Her First Hundred Years, The Mennyms, and, for younger children, the Miss Flora McFlimsey books are all vastly superior.
p 20 It was late autumn.
How do dolls know when it is autumn?
The same way that you do.
They smell the London autumn smells of bonfires, of newly lit chimneys, of fog and leaves soaking in the wet.
When they go out they see that Michaelmas daisies are out in the Park and chrysanthemums are in the flower shops and violets have come back on the the street flower-sellers' trays.
Very much along the lines of "The Velveteen Rabbit", this charming book brings dolls to life through the imagination of the children who love (and tolerate) them. "The Velveteen Rabbit" is one of my all time favorite children's books, and this has just been added to that list. Very sweet and a perfect book for young children who are beginning to read chapter books. Written in 1948, it's still as lovely as it was then.
This is a classic old children's book from the 1940s that thankfully has modern editions. I actually discovered this one for my daughter in early grade school and we read it together. I remember the bratty doll, Marchpane, and how we talked about not wanting to behave that way. It seems that old books were a lot more focused on forming behavior, whereas today's are all about entertainment value.
I've decided to re-read all my old favourite books, and I immediately knew I had to start with Tottie. This book had a profound effect on me as a kid. I've always adored dolls and dollhouses, and Tottie makes them come alive for me even now. (Not entirely recommended if your child is a sensitive soul, though. This book points out what a tragic existence dolls lead when their owners don't take proper care of them.)
After being introduced to Godden through a memoir earlier this year, I was eager to read her fiction. This was a book for children, but it made me want to read more of her writing. She writes easily of family life, even dolls that talk."...you will learn that small things are not as serious as they seem, nor large things as large...."
One of my childhood books that I revisited. For a kid's book this is actually very dark. It deals with themes of abandonment and bullying albeit in a very brief way. However, the ending seems somewhat rushed, if bittersweet. I certainly would have now liked more pages on the Plantaganets dealing with the aftermath of the final act. Also, Marchpane is totally a B-rhymes-with-witch.
I read this years ago, not as a child but as a young adult. If my memory serves right, it's one of the best stories about love and death. And made digestible for children. I'd love to read it again and other works by the author.
