https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/239102.Starless_Night
Anyone who's been reading Drizzt stories until now probably don't need any reviews to determine whether he keeps reading or not.
While I like the many contemplation moments in this book and feel despair and loss as a result of the first book, there's one thing that feels unrealistic - and that's how powerful they are or how lucky they are.
Despite the fact that the heroes are heading into enemy territory, things seem to always go their way.
I just feel that a couple of the encounters could have been made more realistic and harrowing, rather than having things made easy for them.
I read the first 13 Drizzt books back-to-back, so I sometimes forget what happened in which specific book but I certainly enjoyed the ride.
The rating above reflects only the content.This book stood out for a different reason...The cover is so absolutely atrocious it irked me every time I looked at it.
Maybe because Cattie-brie looks 12 on this cover instead of 20.
I realize writers often don't get much say in their cover art, but someone should have caught this, especially since both are main characters in the already-established series.
So if you want to read this book - find the later printing with better cover art.
"It is a defeat of the spirit to learn that one's arrogance causes such loss and pain. Pride invites you to soar to heights of personal triumph, but the wind is stronger at those heights and the footing, tentative. Farther, then, is the fall" (235). My Rating 4 stars Book Series Book 8 of The Legend of Drizzt series (30+ books). My Thoughts? First half was a little slow. The reasons for why Drizzt was heading back to Menzoberranzan were explained and reexplained. I get why the author wanted to e
Book Series
Book 8 of The Legend of Drizzt series (30+ books).
The reasons for why Drizzt was heading back to Menzoberranzan were explained and reexplained.
I get why the author wanted to explain such a dangerous move, but having read the previous 7 books, I understood Drizzt's motives without being told.The scene between Cattie-Brie and Lady Alustriel was a little embarassing.
She's supposed to be some sort of elf queen, but she acts more like a socialite.As the story goes on, the pace gets better.
When the characters hit Menzoberranzan, the story goes from okay to amazing.
If you're new to the series, start at book 1 Homeland.
There are no shadows in the Underdark. There is no room for imagination in the Underdark. It is a place for alertness, but not aliveness, a place with no room for hopes and dreams. - Drizzt Do’Urden My favourite Forgotten Realms novels are the ones that take place in the Underdark. The savage and wild Drow fascinate me more than any other race I know. They’re devious, conniving and cutthroat. And I freaking love them. So, Drizzt deciding to leave the surface and return to his former home of Men
So, Drizzt deciding to leave the surface and return to his former home of Menzoberranzan in the Underdark completely excited me.
The violent death of his dear friend (view spoiler)[Wulfgar (hide spoiler)] by they hands of his own people scarred Drizzt a bit.
As a result, Drizzt returned to the land of starless nights, yay.What resulted was a brilliantly fast paced journey through the Underdark.
A journey filled with excitement, anticipation and intense and vivid battle scenes.
I picked it up, hoping for a fun adventure with Drizzt Do’Urden (the fictional character that I admire most in the world, btw).
That said, I know I missed out on a lot of character work and plot background which is regularly mentioned throughout this story.
And Drizzt runs away from his friends at the start of the book, and is then chased down by his loyal friend and (likely?) future lover, Cattie-Brie.
So this is basically a chase book in which POV switches from Drizzt to Cattie-Brie as Drizzt heads towards a target location but must travel through the Underdark and come up against all of the characters mentioned above because of reasons.I still don't know what this book was really about.
This Book was AMAZING!!!!!!! The characters are a bit difficult to understand if you start the series on this book because they've grown more complex over the series, but Salvatore provides enough to have a simple understanding for the story and relations between characters. I must say that my favorite has to be Drizzt himself, but you'd have to read it for yourself to find out.
Meanwhile, the ever-eccentric drow mercenary leader, Jarlaxle, and the human assassin now stuck in the city of the drow, Artemis Entreri, find themselves playing pivotal roles in this tale - Starless Night, the 8th book of the Forgotten Realms Legend of Drizzt Series.
Many of the earlier and later Drizzt novels focus heavily on Drizzt and tend to have a lot of introspective narrative from Drizzt's perspective; however, Starless Night gives us a respite from the constant musings of Drizzt in order to focus on the larger tale being told and the development of other key character's that play larger roles in upcoming books in the series.
Light on substance, heavy on paper thin characters, magic, swords, and general fantasy trappings.Long Review(view spoiler)[The whole premise of this book, in my opinion, is based around the assumption that Drizzt is a dumbass.The fact that he thinks, even if he is dealing with the guilt of Wulfgar's death and that's making it hard for him to see reason, that going back to Menzobarranzan and giving himself up to house Baenre will someone convince them to leave Mithril Hall alone is stupid.
I know he killed Wulfgar off, but it was clear regardless of how foolish Drizzt and Cattie-brie's decisions were that there would be no long term ramifications.
I enjoyed this one. Seeing the way our band of characters grieves a loss, pulls together, kicks ass and takes names. For me, these usually border a line between "too much action" and "wow, that was exciting." Too many of them in a row and it's too much, but spacing them out a bit improves the experience, I think.
While reading THE LEGEND OF DRIZZT series, I’ve developed the grim suspicion that every time R.A. Salvatore looks at his characters and thinks “time for some development, lads and lasses,” he immediately starts trying to shoehorn in an adventure to go along with it.
Granted, maybe it’s just that I’ve read a lot of these novels in quick succession by now and my patience is starting to fizzle a bit, but I do feel on occasion that whenever Salvatore decides to do some character work, there ends up being this substandard, breezy little quest that doesn’t really go anywhere or do anything except give the characters the opportunity to think about Important Issues.
While a bit silly at times (a talking sword?), Starless Night gets into the action quickly.(The only hitch is that the assassin Entiri gives the magic ruby-pendant back to Drizzt in the last half of the book.
The characters are marvelously written into the plot.The dwarves take a back seat, and the halfing Regis comes into his own leading them.
- It gives vitality to the setting; establishing a history, a present, and a promise for things to come.Drizzt ostensibly drives the plot by daftly leaving his friends.
Drizzt, you are a kick-butt super awsome drow boss, why are you whining like a punk?
This will become a reaccuring complaint by the way.
Then Cattie-brie has to go and drag him out of the caverns.
I was at a toss-up over whether Cattie-Brie came across as an awsome empowered female who isn't afraid to risk her life for a friend, or if she more came off as the woman who drives out in the middle of the night to drag her husband from the bar.
Oh well, doesn't mean I didn't like the book anyways.
The start of another trilogy. Drizzt makes a foolish decision to tackle a problem solo and he has to learn the hard way that friends are important and necessary no matter how skilled in combat you are. This opening book creates nice tension and sets the stage for more confrontation and revenge to follow.
I am continually amazed that R.A. Salvatore can keep coming up with interesting new plot lines for the Legend of Drizzt series.
Something about that place, lighted by fairy light and home to so much backstabbing and intrigue among the various noble houses, is just deliciously spooky.In this story, Drizzt, feeling that he was personally responsible for the attack on Mithril Hall chronicled in the previous book, The Legacy, decides that he must return to Menzoberranzon to somehow keep the Drow armies from coming back for him again.
He tells a good story, no doubt, but I feel like this book sort of got bogged down in the fight scenes.
If you're looking for more storytelling through character interaction, other than fight scenes, read it to keep up with the story of Drizzt, but understand what you're going to be reading.
Dear god was this book amazing!The Good:Drizzt is awesome, as always.
But he's extra awesome here, showing that he's willing to sacrifice everything to save those dear to him.
There's also a surprise appearance by someone that Drizzt saved in the original trilogy.This finally made me go for Belwar.
Such an awesome villain.It was consistently engaging the entire time.Cattie-brie finally got to be a badass with her bow, and went in to save Drizzt.The Great: Most of the last third reminded me of when the Fellowship was running from the Balrog, it felt just as exciting, and it earned this book its fifth star.And of course, tons and tons of awesome fight scenes.
This is a review that also includes comments of the Audible version:The book starts out slowly and gradually builds up the action and excitement, as Drizzt and his friends deal with tragedy and old enemies.
We go into the Underdark and see more of the Dark Elves and other creatures that live down there, which is very interesting and keeps the suspense going.The book is enjoyable, but Victor Bevine still has an odd way of narrating for me.
If you've come his far in the Drizzt series of books, this one won't disappoint.
Die ersten zwei Bände dieses Zyklus sind bisher die schwächsten der Drizzt-ReiheLeider ist der Auto der Ansicht, es wäre eine Super-Idee, seine Helden mal so richtig leiden zu sehen, aber wenn ich das lesen will, dann greife ich zu Büchern von Martin.Salvatore steht für mich für Bücher, in denen am Ende der Held der strahlende Gewinner ist und nciht gebrochen am Boden liegt. High Fantasy liegt ihm defintiv mehr als Dark Fantasy.Drizzt wird hier mehr zu einem nervigen Jammerlappen, der von seinen Gefährten durchgezogen wird. ich hoffe, das ändert sich in den folgenden zwei Büchern.
I liked this one, though I don't think it was the strongest book in the series thus far. It's ultimately a book about grieving and coming to terms with life after grief, and in that it succeeds admirably. Unfortunately, there is some arm twisting to get the characters to the final conclusion. That was spectacular, but the lead up was fairly plodding. However, the climax is worth that plodding. Three stars, just about average, feels right for this one.I've decided to move straight to book 10 because the stakes were fairly high where 9 leaves off.
Going to reread "Starless night" soon for the second time. I remember really liking the plot in this one, especially Cattie Brie's POV. I also enjoyed the overal dynamics of this novel. Jarlaxle meeting Catti Brie for the first time was also memorable and fun to read. Easily my favourite of the Forgotten realms series - it's action packed adorned with Salvatore's flowing narration and lots of interesting tibits of its own. Can't wait to start reading it again!
The aftermath of what happened in the previous book plays a big part in the motivation for Drizz't in this one. Somehow, it didn't feel authentic. However, it was still full of action and adventure, and the plot took advantage of the world built by the creators. I'm worried that the subsequent books will feel a bit formulaic, but it's a good story nonetheless, so I'll stick with it.
Excellent entry to the series. Usually by book 8 in a series, the narratives are becoming formulaic and the characters are static. But not this one. Other than figuring 'the good guy is going to win in the end', I could not predict how this one was going to conclude. And there is still meaningful character development going on.
Not going to lie, but I felt like I forced myself to read this because of how great the earlier books were. Personally lost all respect for Catti-Brie, let's just say Wulfgar deserved better. A lot of time spent detailing Menzoberranzan but couldn't care less about it. Plus side, they finally met their match.
This Drizzt novel finds him abandoning Mithril Hall and going back to Mezzobean to confront Drow who are after him. Has some internal Drow politics as they are planning on uniting the various clans to invade Mithril Hall. A lot of action and mainly just Drizzt and Cati Brie who goes after Drizzt as he confronts some old adversaries and some new ones as well.
I'll admit this got off to a slow start. We're in the Underdark ... again. That guy is back ... again. Uggh. But in the last 100 pages the plot turned, things got really interesting, and we're left with Salvatore at his best.
Up to book 8, the series continues to get better--some repetitive paragraphs now and then, but not as many as I have seen in other long series, and not really distracting. The story is moving forward, and plot is engaging; looking forward to the next adventure!
I didn't think this story was as good as some of the others. I liked Cattie-brie's development and the fact that Drizzt was in a tight spot but the story itself definitely wasn't one of the better ones.
Wieder mal eins der Besseren Bücher der Serie. Der "Big Fight" war für mich sehr fesselnd, einige der Wendungen unerwartet... mich würde jedoch interessieren, wer in der Kapelle alles zum Opfer wurde... vielleicht erfährt man es ja im nächsten Teil..
I like the kindness and charm of Salvatore's books. Though, I'm just tired of reading about fights between Drizzt and Artemis. And here he is. Alive. Again. It would be much better to end this part of story back in Calimport
Drizzt pensa che Mithril Hall sia minacciata da Menzoberranzan. E ha ragione. Quindi parte da solo per evitare una guerra contro la sua nuova patria. Ma Cattie-Brie andrà ad aiutarlo.Bellissimo. Gran sorpresa nel finale.
