https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/17707739-wake-up-and-live
3,5*много харесвам книгите за самоусъвършенстване. тази не е изключение. очаквайте подробно мнението ми за нея скоро.
I came to this remarkable piece of work via an offer from another author who’d ‘rewritten’ it.
And I’m glad I did.In common with a great many people, I’ve had the suspicion for some time that something in my approach to life was letting me down.
I’ve only just finished reading it, so haven’t yet had time to apply these.
However, having read the text, I can see the validity and purpose behind them and will be performing these exercises over the next weeks.The one thing I’ve already taken from the book, which I can apply at once, is her advice to ‘act as though you cannot fail’.
And I admit I didn't think it could be that easy--act as if it were impossible to fail--but then one day while reading it, something clicked.
Mostly, it's about not letting fears, doubts, past failures, and other negatives eat up, consciously or unconsciously, your energy, your drive, and your time.
If you rid yourself of those, you are left realizing all the energy and time you spent on those, unconsciously or consciously, can now be spent on working toward success--and you realize how much more likely you are to succeed now.So it is a great philosophy, and the book was an interesting read with some actions I want to try.
كتاب بسيط لتطوير النفس ..الوصول للنجاح بطريقه جديدة وذلك بمعرفة [اسباب الفشل ، وثماره ]..إرادة الفشل كإرادة الحياة وغيرها ، الكاتبة تخبرك اننا نمضي الى الفشل بفعلنا وبارادتنا ، نخاف منه فنصل إليه ...الكتاب فريد من نوعه كل كتب التطوير تهتم فقط بالخيال اما دا الكتاب غير ، يوصلك للنجاح بقتل (الخوف من الفشل) ..سوف اقرا الكتاب مرة اخرى ..
That they got a man to narrate the audiobook version of Dorothea Brande's 'Wake Up And Live!' is an absolute fucking travesty. That said this remains one of my favourite non-fiction books -- second only to her 'Becoming A Writer.' Both definitive (and actually helpful) self-help classics that should be required reading for writers and other creative types.
Some of the writers have grasped the fundamental of life and what it takes to be at the top of it.
The book is all about habits, basic concepts of behaviour, deal with natural instances of psychology and practices which is required to be at the top both professionally and day to day life.
Without being prescriptive, the book states the fundamental concepts of a good life and act upon the basic concepts of dealing and positioning oneself in the real world.
It encompasses 12 concepts of practicing habits and behaviour which shall bring positive transformation in one life with practical inspirational example.A difficult book yet very educative.
I expected a lot from this book because I love Dorothea Brande book about writing The book isn't about good life as the title eludes , it is a self help book about how to succeed and get over your will to fail or how to stop self - destruct. The book is good enough but not great. not everyone can apply the advises in it.but I liked the twelve discipline rules specially the one about planning your day ahead.
"Act as if it were impossible to fail. That is the talisman, the formula, the command of right-about-face which turns us from failure towards success. ""The law of nature is: Do the thing and you shall have the power; but they who do not do the thing have not the power." "Success, for any sane adult, is exactly equivalent to doing one's best. What that best may be, what its farthest reaches may include, we can discover only by freeing ourselves completely from the Will to Fail."
This is one of those books that is brilliant in its simplicity and in pointing out a lot of things that you already know but need reminders of. I WILL PUT IT INTO PRACTICE AND I THINK MY LIFE WILL DIFFER :)I WILL READ AGAIN
This is one of the earliest self-help books, written during the 1930's, and is still useful, if a little schoolmarm-ish.
The earlier chapters of the book look at the way that most of us subconsciously look for failure.
Procrastination is a way of putting off what we don’t want to do; often because we expect to fail.
The premise of this book is that if we adopt an attitude of expecting to succeed (or, at any rate, acting as if we cannot fail) then even if we don't achieve great wealth, fame or other symbols of success, we will achieve a great deal more than we would otherwise, and will feel far more fulfilled.
Několik praktických a nadčasových rad jsem si musela podtrhat, jak jsou pravdivé. Ovšem povýšený ton, kterým autorka píše (ano, já vím, třicátá léta...) je někdy opravdu iritující. Přišlo mi, že ke mě promlouvá jako k nezbednému dítěti.Líbí se mi poslední kapitola se seznamem úkolů - challenge accepted ;)
I sat with Wake Up and Live! for a while, and it didn't really move me. Not great for a book that is aiming to get readers fired up to live fully. However, it was saved by some very helpful ideas in the last two chapters. The earlier section does offer some helpful insight into what prevents people from accomplishing their goals, which is worthwhile, but also a bit draining to read.
Rating: 2.5Quick, easy read. 40 pages long.While I was reading this, I had a sense that I am wasting my time reading, instead of working. Probably in some perverse way, it means the book is good and its message works. One line hit me: People who live with a Will to Fail live as if there are gonna live for thousand years. Wasting their time in reverie; or sleeping more than required, etc.
ExcellentI would have given it five stars, and intended to do so right from the start of this great book, but the "twelve disciplines" lost me. I thought they were absurd. Maybe it is just that they weren't at all what I expected. However, they take up only one short chapter and the rest of the book is very useful and written beautifully. A life changing read.
I would definitely see if your library has this and then decide if you want to buy a copy and refer back to it. If you can get past how dated it is, the core material is decent. I found myself distracted by some odd references which must have been mainstream conversations at the time.
Loved it! Especially the 12 Disciplines
A bit of a difficult read but definitely a masterclass. The ideas in this book will change your life.
Невероятно безполезна книга.
It is the author’s contention that, “Absurd as it may seem at first consideration that anyone would solemnly enter into even and unconscious conspiracy to fail, it is a matter of observation that there is hardly one person in 100 who does not, in some fashion, deliberately cripple and thwart themselves.” And, while I have no information to prove or disprove this statistic, I do know that Dorothea Brande uses the first 38 pages of “Wake up and Live!” to redundantly advocate her position and this made for tedious reading.If the reader does make it past those initial 38 pages, they will discover that the author finally commences to share the means by which we can overcome our desire to fail: a change in mindset from an expectation of failure to the complete opposite belief - that it is impossible to fail.
A book for our time!Though published in 1936 the instructive value of this work has not diminished.I
It advocates a positive change in one's attitude—"Act as if it were impossible to fail"—and aims to teach how to discipline and train one's mind and imagination in order to combat humans' inherent Will to Die/Fail.
The core activity is working to replace useless fantasies with directed intention, harnessing the imagination for attaining one's real-life goals.
Brande also lists twelve exercises, which involve activities to discipline the ego.
Brande's writing can get airy at times, but her big attitudinal leap and core principles seem sound.
Maybe not as easy-peasy as she says, but a clearly achievable and worthy goal.
Powerful read.
I will actually need to go back and study the notes taken as I read.
Key phrase is "act is if it were impossible to fail".
There is a difference between day dreaming and deciding that there is a mental strategic process needed to erode away the behavior of falling under the radar of comfort of doing what appears to be safe or natural for us.
Oh again, "we must act as if it were impossible to fail".10/17/17 Just an amazing book that holds relevance even for our fast past moving society today.

For the last few years I've thought most people have self-sabotaging tendencies yet I'd never come across a book that talked about it directly until now.
Written in 1936, but essentially timeless.
Proof of the great advice in the book comes from the About The Author section: "A case in point is that of the stenographer whose job it was to type the manuscript for the printer.
The young lady was so impressed by what she was typing that she quit her job, went into business for herself, and in two months owned her own agency, employing three girls to help her."
Short, but even so it contains a lot of extraneous material and spends a lot of time circling its main point without adding anything useful.
I find the author's voice very amenable, if slightly old fashioned (published in 1936) and there are a number of points that are out of date but still useful.
The main point of the book is to act as if it was impossible to fail, the item of primary importance being the action itself.
This work has informed many modern self help and success books, some of which have taken the main idea and expanded on it more effectively.
I didn't know what to expect from this book but I enjoyed it. I'm not sure what my life will be like after reading this book, what I'll put into practice, what I'll forget about, what I'll always remember but never act on, etc., but I certainly enjoyed the insight it provided. This is one of those books that is brilliant in its simplicity and in pointing out a lot of things that you already know but need reminders of.
This inspirational novel has stood the test of time, with the only negative discretion being the cliches within the writing, but that is to be expected with the passage of nearly a century since the book's release. The writing style is fluid, and more naturally humorous than the average modern inspirational read which often seem to try far too hard at cheeky humor. *I received the copy of this book for free through Goodreads
This may be the most inspirational book I've ever read. Dorothea Brande leads you to the point where you can easily believe in yourself and realize that it is impossible to fail in life. Highly recommend. I was so disappointed when our dog tore part of it up one day while I was at work. I found and still have another copy that I read again from time to time.
Probably 3 1/2 stars. Most of the first part of this book is fascinating, talking about the ways we make ourselves fail. It offers strategies to really understand why we do some of the things we do and how to overcome them. Got a little hectoring in tone towards the end, although it offers some amusing and challenging exercises. Definitely worth a read.
