https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1252537.All_About_H_Hatterr
Rejoicing at the just conclusion of the dictate of his conscience, and armed with the legal interpretation of the testament left by my post-mortem seaman parent, willing I be brought up Christian, and the court custody award, the jute factor had me adopted by an English Missionary Society, as one of their many Oriental and mixed-Oriental orphan-wards.
By condemning Giri-Giri’s disciples, rather than Giri-Giri himself, Desani depicts mysticism as a tolerant, if not suitable, sphere for sexual dissidence.
Moreover, by casting queerness as the “musikos,” or secret, of mysticism, Desani posits sexual alterity as simultaneously inside and outside of the nation-state.
And the Magistrates are far more understanding...' --Anglo-Indian writerIndian middle-man (to Author) : Sir, if you do not identify your composition a novel, how then do we itemise it?
Sir, the rank and file is entitled to know.Author (to Indian middle-man) : Sir, I identify it a gesture.
Sir, the rank and file is entitled to know.Indian middle-man (to Author) : Sir, there is no immediate demand for gestures.
There is immediate demand for novels.
Sir, we are literary agents not free agents.Author (to Indian middle-man) : Sir, I identify it a novel.
The author Govindas Vishnoodas Desani(1909 - 2000)--haha, couldn't resist putting his years, read the book and you'll know what this chuckle means--plays, he laughs, you laugh with him, and the words and sentences he created jump up and down happily with you.I am therefore going back, in search of these words, phrases, sentences and paragraphs which brought me joy, my eyes popping out every single time in wonderment, aghast with surprise and merriment that these things can be done with letters (the capitalizations!), words and sounds.Everything seems to be here: malapropisms, hilarious dialogues, comic hyperbole, literary allusions (Shakespeare!
The Good Ol' Daddy of Indian novel in English, the one who added 'post' to the colonial, who took the micky out of everything in the ocean of humanity called India and moved on, crossed the ocean and found himself in "Blackpool, Lancs.
The most unimaginable hell-hole I had ever unimagined." I read this book about 15 years ago when a friend lent me his precious but decomposing and dog-eared copy.
I was so grateful that I decided to repay his kindness by getting him a new copy but managed to find a good condition second HB after several trips to Charing Cross Road.
A tour de force, one of the great obscure books of all time.
The language is a paste-up, a farrago, a dog's dinner of the "'babu English,' the semi-literate, half-learned English of the bazaars, transmuted by erudition, highbrow monkeying around, and the impish magic of Desani's unique phrasing and rhythm into an entirely new kind of literary voice." (Salman Rushdie) The character travels the subcontinent, seeking enlightenment he consults 7 gurus and their teachings send him on seven adventures, each one ending in beating beaten, humiliated, imprisoned, or otherwise taking a comic fall.
This is one of my favorite books of all time.
A layered and complex text that launches a scathing critique aimed at both colonial India and the British Empire via picaresque, pseudo-18th century philosophical treatises, mimicry, doomed spiritual journeys, and a magnificent hybrid language that often matches the heights of Joyce’s wordsmithery (and to which Salman Rushdie is admittedly indebted).
A powerful postcolonial argument, it’s also, perhaps, the funniest book I have ever read thanks to H.
Hatter’s series of (mis)adventures throughout which he wallows playfully and intensely in the absurdity of life, ultimately reminding us that, even when “innocent fellers get foxed,” and “regardless of the unanswerable what is truth?,” we really have no choice but to “carry on, boys, and continue like hell!”
Apart from undermining the very defence it intends to uphold, the ‘naming ceremony’ is a dig at the aristocrats’ and god-men’s tendency to legitimise and iterate their political/ religious status by claiming a long line of descent from royal/ holy forbears.Seven chapters form themainstay of the book where Hatterr, seeking lucre, lust and illumination, encounters seven sages across India who take on increasingly presumptuous names as the work progresses – sages of Calcutta, Rangoon (now resident in India), Madras, Bombay, “right Honourable sage of Delhi,” “wholly worshipful of Mogalsarai-Varanasi” and “naked Holiness number One, the Sage of All India himself!” – matching the ludicrousness of the ‘life experience’ encountered and the lesson learned thereof.
Things won are done, joy’s soul lies in the doing.I would challenge you to a battle of wits, but I see you are unarmed.
"This is the Twentieth Century!
This is the Medical Man's Century.
No sentiment, no dog-cat or Romeo-Juliet imaginative stuff, but realistic brutal true-to-life pictures!
I tell you, the Bacon-Shakespeare pictures won't tally with Life today!
Desani has been rightful hailed as the grandfather of the "global novel" -- and thank heavens to all subsequent literature.
This lusciously worded "gesture" may advocate for Life, but it also cements the importance of literary history, the study of literature while showcasing the modernist convention of fragmenting the traditional literary canon for an altogether new style of narrative.
I don't get this book.
I heard so many great things about it, but I kept reading it and reading it and never once cared even a little bit about it.
This is what I get for listening to the New York Times Review of Books.
The problem is that this book's beauty is supposed to be in the words and not the plot, and I generally don't like books like that.
It was supposed to be hilarious, but I never got the joke.
So despite how much I hate to put down a book, I put this one down and now I feel light and free.

The greatest English language novel from an Indian writer. Yes, its even better than Rushdie's Midnight's Children. First heard of this jewel back in 2003. Have read it several times since then. Couldn't believe this is Desani's only novel!!!.....English language writers from India barring Rushdie and maybe Amitav Ghosh can polish Desani's shoes......check this website out www.believermag.com/issues/200806/?re...
Nothing no book that I know of is anything like this. English is crunched up and tossed out reformed -- into hilarity. When it is so obvious that the author is enjoying his verbal antics, the reader has to enjoy too. If you like your fiction 'spoon-fed' don't go near this. But if you love wacky with underlying true tongues in cheeks, cheers!
No.
Hatterr, born a year after Independence, was an early example of the only kind of Indian protagonist the Indian novel in English could possibly have: a man on the margins, a hero who belonged to two worlds and to neither.
Saul Bellow found that Desani was one of the few writers he could read while he worked on his own novel.
“I learnt a trick or two from him,” Rushdie said once of Desani, and perhaps, more than the linguistic exuberance, what Indian writers received from Hatterr was permission.
Sir, the rank and file is entitled to know.” “Sir,” says the Author, “I identify it as a gesture.
Desani G. V. is a lofty lion of literature. The best work on cultural receptio that ever has been written by any feller Oriental or Occidental.And any suggestion to the contrary will be reviewed by Y. Beliram, legum vir, and published as an appendix.
A book written it seems for the pure delight and playfulness of language.
If there was less than one star, I would give it to this book. I couldn't get further than the first chapter, and I really tried to do so since it was the monthly selection for the Eclectic Readers on Hawthorne. Arriving at our meeting, I found out I was not the only one who couldn't get through this book. There was only one member who read it, and he was far from impressed with what he slogged through.
This is the ‘babu English,’ the semi-literate, half-learned English of the bazaars, transmuted by erudition, highbrow monkeying around, and the impish magic of Desani’s unique phrasing and rhythm into an entirely new kind of literary voice.It would be interesting to read the whole article which that comes from, but it’s hidden behind the New Yorker’s pay wall.The book is narrated by the H.
It’s anecdotal and episodic in structure; there isn’t, at least for me at first reading, any kind of overarching plot.
Picaresque might be a good word for it.It is somewhat ‘difficult’ — it’s not for people who like their prose plain.
Hatterr is sui generis -- an extraordinary melange of Indian dialect, crass humor, literary references, neologistic extrapolations, postmodern noodling, and philosophico-religico-moralistico meanderings.Set in late British Empire India, it tells the story of an Anglo-Indian orphan who engages seven false gurus and loses much for each encounter.
I am ringing for a tete-a-tete with the A1 bedmate de luxe Miss Gipsy Smith and this sawed-off runt is giving me the long-distance to mein Deutschland Herren Colonel-Generals Jerry and Fritz instead!The best parts of the book involve the hilarious dialogues between the narrator and his obsequiously deferential friend, Nath Banerrji.
Most of these encounters ends with him naked or nearly so in some utterly compromising situation--perhaps the most entertaining of which involves a raw steak and a lion.
Framed (lightly) as life lessons, these encounters are prefaced in each case by an exchange between an acolyte and en Eastern mystic.
The ensuing tale from Haterr's life is meant to illustrate or comment on whatever question of moment has come up between the acolyte and the mystic.
In every case, the linguistic pyrotechnics are alone worth the price of admission.
Desani puts his hero in one wickedly funny situation after another, so the story as well is richly rewarding.
Desani is a master of language, wit, and absurdity! Almost every sentence in this book is a masterpiece.The book takes us through a magical journey that Hatterr embarks on -- spiritual search of truth through hilarious examination of eastern & western worlds.It's a difficult book as the language can get really ultra-creative at times, yet one of the funniest books I have ever read.
Amazing play with language. Desani throws references to literary works from every culture into this, with puns, foreign languages, linguistic gymnastics and outlandish scenes. Lots of fun, but also a challenging read.
Apparently this is the Indian Ulysses, or Ulysses is the Irish All about H. Hatter; either way, it's a very hard book to get one's hands on. I am thinking about "holding on" to Brown's copy for "a while".
IT'S BACK IN PRINT!!Until a few months ago, even the old trade paperbacks were seventy-five bucks a pop. I miss the old cover art though... caricature of a neatly mustachioed Indian man cradling some books, running naked from a lion.
An extremely curiously weirdly goofy yet erudite sort of novelish thing. I liked it.
The book has its moments but, for the most part, I didn't get it despite all the rave reviews. I'll try reading again another day to see if I have a different take on it.
A Tristam Shandy-esque/Tom Jones-y novel set in India. The language play is quite incredible, but the politics are hard to pin down. Read quickly, will probably have to return.
damme!!i have never read a book like this before!!
http://www.veryshortlist.com/vsl/dail...
