https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/477801.Let_s_Go_Play_at_the_Adams_
Posted at Shelf Inflicted  “No one can bear to know humans and bear being human.” This is an unpleasant, nasty book. Nevertheless, it was difficult for me to put down. Comparisons have been made to Jack Ketchum’s The Girl Next Door which I haven’t read yet, as both books are apparently loosely based on the 1965 murder of 16-year-old Sylvia Likens. The difference here is that the five children acted on their own, without any adult influence. After looking at the lurid cover pictured in Grady Hend
Comparisons have been made to Jack Ketchum’s The Girl Next Door which I haven’t read yet, as both books are apparently loosely based on the 1965 murder of 16-year-old Sylvia Likens.
After looking at the lurid cover pictured in Grady Hendrix’s Paperbacks from Hell: The Twisted History of '70s and '80s Horror Fiction, I knew I had to find a copy.
When I got home, I side-eyed my 13-year old neighbor who was sitting on the balcony and wondered just what cruelties he was capable of inflicting on the adults in his life.
I don't believe in the world of this book, nor in its worldview.
there is no believable context to why they do the things they do, unless it is mere coincidence that brings these 5 deeply disturbed individuals together.
the reasons provided are not convincing enough for me to believe that 5 kids (ok, let's not count the lil' psychopath) - 4 'regular' kids without traumatic lives or the guidance of a disturbed adult - are going to be able to slowly and dispassionately torture someone to death, and then methodically cover their tracks like supervillains.
I like that feeling when I’m reading a book and I think to myself, “there’s no way the author is going to go there…oh, my gosh…he’s going there, OH MY GOSH, WE’RE THERE, so far past acceptability.” That’s why I’m trying to make way through a list of books that readers have told me are “the most disturbing book they’ve ever read.” Let’s Go Play At The Adams’ by Mendal Johnson made nearly every list I’ve looked at so it was an obvious choice for me.
Ketchum’s novel shows just how easily children can become corrupted and led down some dark and dangerous paths to human depravity.
All great horror writers know this and the theme shows up again and again in books and on film – Stephen King’s short story “Children of the Corn” and his novella “Apt Pupil” come to mind, as well as William Golding’s classic novel Lord of the Flies.
Some of what I felt reading this book, I also felt while watching The Strangers  (the home invasion movie starring Liv Tyler).
And finally, it is a book that promises to stay with you long after the reading is done.
Barbara is a 20 year old college student who likes kids and needed some extra money. She agrees to sit with Bobby and Cindy. Little does she know that these dang kids are the demon reborn. They along with 3 of their friends take Barbara hostage. Torture and rape are on the agenda. These kids see it as playing a game. They are the Freedom Five after all. Little bastards. This book scared the hell out of me. I can see this happening. Kids live in their own world. Some of them don't see their actio
Barbara is a 20 year old college student who likes kids and needed some extra money.
Little does she know that these dang kids are the demon reborn.
These kids see it as playing a game.
Little bastards.
This book scared the hell out of me.
Kids live in their own world.
I lived with a 16 year old girl who had some mental issues.
Scared shitless I say!One of the "kids" in this book is 17 years old!
This book will stick with you for awhile.
But I do want the book out of my house too!
I know children like that exist, but it's a thought that I usually try to push out of my mind.
Do I believe that all children are like the ones depicted in this book?
No. Do I think that all children are capable of these acts?
They are tough to read and definitely not for everybody but they earned 5 stars each for making me feel so strongly and for just how well they were written and portrayed.
In this book, however, the children are acting completely on their own accord.
Rather than going into the plot (I'd like for people to be able to read this with as few spoilers as possible.) I'd like to express both my admiration for Johnson's writing and for the thought it must have taken to create such a thoroughly dark and cerebral book at a time when this sort of book might have garnered a great deal of trouble for him.
Through the course of the story each role is clearly expressed and there are no doubts that these people act based on their own choices and what to them is rational thought and reason.
Mark's review reminded me of this notorious book.
I'm trying to recall if I found the story believable or not (Mark doesn't believe it).
I was a teen at the time, about as old as the older kids in the book.I don't think it seemed that implausible.
The author appeared to be saying: actually, it's pretty easy for the right social pressures to turn normal kids into psychopaths.
The Third Reich isn't necessary; as far as I can reconstruct it, I figured I knew kids who would be torturing their babysitter to death if they were reasonably sure they could get away with it.
It is one of those books that I thought was very good, but I do not take pleasure in recommending it to others in case it makes them feel how I did as a young girl.On the back cover, Publishers Weekly state "A horror tale that will harrow you and haunt you long after you have finished it." I see why I was attracted to it in the first place, with loving horrors.
Quality literature or exploitative crap? Who knows, but this WASP horror novel about nice suburban kids torturing their babysitter is an experience that sticks with you, for better or worse. "Goodness, go out of the world."
I skipped those pages when I read the book last year, knowing that I would come back to them after reading Johnson's novel.
I didn't want anything spoiled for me.So we have a cult status horror novel that's so despicable people either tore it to pieces or felt like vomiting upon finishing it.
In Let's Go Play at the Adams', Barbara is the unfortunate victim of a game devised by 4 highly intelligent and well to do kids who have been friends for years.
This makes the story even harder to read, because we know that Bobby has grown tired of the game, and actually feels bad for Barbara.
Warning, this review is kind-of spoilery. I’m not even sure where to start with this review… what a disturbing, strange, and violent novel.I had so many different thoughts running through my head with this novel, that I actually had to start myself a little review notebook where I could put all my thoughts on paper. This is going to be a long review… I can already feel it.I should start by saying, this book turned out to be nothing like I thought it would be, but that hasn’t let me down. This i
Obviously, as the torture progressed and got worse, my opinion of her did change, as she changed too.While this book sounds like it’s going to be a quick, dark story about the kidnapping and torture of a babysitter, it’s actually a lot slower than that and there isn’t a huge amount of the torture in front of our eyes.
Yes, maybe the idea that 5 kids all come together and mutually agree to kidnap and torture an adult is a little strange, but as individual people, I think it’s easy to assume they all really exist.The eldest of the group is Dianne, at the age of 17, and I personally think she was the least likable but also least believe character.
Mendal Johnson’s Let’s Go Play at the Adams’ is one of those books.It’s difficult to attract attention to a novel without ruining its mystique but that’s my aim with this post.
The day after the parents leave, Freedom Five ‘capture’ Barbara and a new game begins.I don’t want to say too much about the story.
The moment you put the book down, you want to pick it up again and, if you have the time, it’s one of those you could read in a sitting – if you can handle it.I’m not saying LGPATA is an accurate appraisal of your average child’s mind.
I don't regret reading it because it was terribly written or because it was complete and utter crap, but rather because it was just so disturbing and horrifying.I read The Girl Next Door about 8 months ago and I feel the need to mention that book in this review because it and Let's Go Play at the Adams sort of go hand in hand.
While The Girl Next Door was disturbing, I think Let's Go Play at the Adams was even more so.
The Freedom Five composes of Cindy and Bobby, John Randall (almost 17), Paul McVeigh (age 13), and his sister Dianne (age 18).While watching the children for the first four days, prim and proper, beautiful and athletic Barbara became the object of eroticism for the children.
When the children see that the end result is that the winner be either them or their prisoner Barbara, the children made their decision accordingly.This disturbing book was written with mastery, like a virtuoso playing a psychological piano.
The books tone shifts gradually as it develops, from Barbara waking up thinking it will all be a quick game, to her realizing they intend to kill her.
It's so horrific it plays on the mind for days.In a way, this was a very similiar novel to Misery.
Yet, while Misery has a pretty happy ending (he lives...
The second was pretty much every part devoted to Barbara's thoughts and feelings.
Barbara dies horribly, and after spending so much time listening to her thoughts, growing to like her and feeling her pain, its a really hard thing to read.
Let's Go Play At The Adams' by Mendal W.JohnsonThis is one of the most frightening horror stories I have ever read.
Barbara, the 20 year old babysitter, does not take the kids seriously at first but quickly realizes that they are not so innocent and want to win at all costs.
Soon, the game is out of control but the kids want to play to the end...This is the only book ever written by this author, which, in my opinion, is very well written.I don't recommend this book to anyone unless you enjoy horror stories and psychological thrillers.
It's also a seriously slow burn, so I think if you can find it & are planning to read The Girl Next Door, read this one first.
This book was definitely too much for the time period that it was written in, and that's why it's fallen into obscurity.
This is not a fun read, but I'm glad to have read it for the sake of reading rare book, especially in a genre I love.
The writing is good, and it probably would have been 4⭐ if it wouldn't have been so slow in the middle.
I've heard a lot about this book and finally found a copy to read.
The other terrifying thing was that the youngest evil kid was only 9!
The copy I had, had formatting issues so it was a bit difficult to read and maybe that's what made it just an ok book for me.
I did remind me of The Girl Next Door by Jack Ketchum, which I thought was much better.If you're into the evil kids bit, this might be for you, otherwise you might want to pass on it.
Run-of-the-mill "evil children" plot, sort of a combo of Child's Play, Mumsy, Nanny, Sonny And Girly and Communion, but it was well-written and entertaining for the most part, with some surprising and chilling moments that sort of creep up when you least expect it to happen.
And THAT'S why I don't have children. :)
If u want to live in a world where no good or kindness lives, read this book!
I still like Ketchum's better, however, Johnson's vision for what goes on in a victim's mind is pretty spot on.
I do admit that these descriptions bored me a bit but somehow he was able to grab me back in so kudos for that!
The ending was a bit shocking and definitely un-put-down-able.
Make sure u have time to just sit down for the last four chapters.
A lot went down in this book that I will have to reread it at some point.
This book was, understandably, hard to read. Not only due to the torture and other things done to poor Barbara, but the author goes into the depths of the children's and their captures psyche. Explaining why they did it, and Barbara as she slowly breaks down with each passing day. Not to be taken lightly, it is a reflection on what human beings are capable of doing to other human beings...just because they can.
I was intrigued instantly and had an idea of how disturbing this book would be however I didn’t expect it to be as intense as it was.The main character of Barbra awakens in a bound state and she thinks the children she’s looking after are playing a silly game but she underestimates them.
The vicarious way in which the reader is able to gage where the unrelenting torture will take the victim and the “Freedom Five” is what makes this novel.This is a deeply disturbing and dark look into the minds of young individuals.
"das Buch endet gnadenlos, hoffnungslos und pechschwarz.... sie sind nun vollwertige Mitglieder der grausamen Spezies Mensch."
I for one had never heard of it until a month ago, perhaps because Mendal Johnson only ever had one book published and died soon after, leaving behind a handful of unfinished and since still unpublished manuscripts.Let’s go play at the Adams’ involves twenty year old Barbara, hired to baby sit the rich and seemingly well adjusted Adams’ children.
I think those who approach this book expecting shock a minute, "torture porn" on the level of The Girl Next Door will come away realizing they've mistakenly gone down a far darker path.
This book is profoundly disturbing on many levels.Good or ill: this will likely remain with the reader for life.
After finishing moments ago, if someone asked me to sum up how I felt in one sentence it would certainly be: "I feel like I just got raped."I think it's good that this is long out of print and somewhat difficult to find.
This was a great read and is hard to get out of your mind. Of course, one cannot help but compare it to The Girl Next Door. I found the children in LGPATA to be less menacing (other than the psycho Paul)than the horrible family in TGND. I also thought LGPATA was less horrifying because Barbara (the babysitter) maintains her humanity throughout the book, the poor girl in TGND was reduced to a submissive, heart-breaking shell.
Out of print '70s cult novel is a fictionalized version of the horrifying Sylvia Likens murder. Literate, merciless, but not nearly as disturbing as I'd expected (hoped?) it'd be. Not even close to as unsettling as Jack Ketchum's novel about the same case, THE GIRL NEXT DOOR. The "climax," such as it is, burns cold and true. Mostly interesting as a sort of misanthropic political allegory.
I heard about this book from numerous "most disturbing books" lists. About half way through I thought I was going to be disappointed and then it suddenly turned into a very dark and haunting story. Great read!!!!
