https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/18098.Indiscretions_of_Archie
This is my favorite non-Jeeves Wodehouse book.
It is literary champagne like all Wodehouse books, but it's happier than most (which is really saying something).The story deals with Archie, a young man who finds out after a hasty wedding to a beautiful girl that his new bride comes complete with a huge pile of money and a terrifying father who hates him.What sets this apart for me is the basic sweetness of the underlying love story.
Archie's marriage is the healthiest and most affectionate sort of partnership, portrayed with the rare earnestness at which Wodehouse excels.
Well done old boy, simply marvellous.
Archie, a well educated but rather feather-brain Englishman, comes to New York to seek his fortune (as, after looking he failed to find it in England).
He sees Archie as an unscrupulous, gold digging foreigner but doesn’t want to disappoint or alienated his daughter so he agrees to give him a suite in his hotel and keeps a good eye on him.
Archie’s even temper, good cheer and innocence can’t help but endear him to the reader.
I just loved the never-ending supply of non-words Archie uses to describe things, people or places he has either forgotten or doesn’t understand.
Archie……The good egg…… I wish him well!
3 stars. Archie isn't as fun as Bertie but in the same vein. Instead of Jeeves, Archie has his wife Lucille to look out for him. Fun fast read but if you haven't read any Wodehouse before, I'd suggest starting with either a Jeeves book (I particularly like "The Code of the Woosters") or a Blandings book ("Something Fresh" is v. good and is the first in the series).
3½ stars. Archie isn't as fun as Bertie but in the same vein. Instead of Jeeves, Archie has his wife Lucille to look out for him. Fun fast read but if you haven't read any Wodehouse before, I'd suggest starting with either a Jeeves book (I particularly like "The Code of the Woosters") or a Blandings book ("Something Fresh" is v. good and is the first in the series).
At first this one seemed slightly tedious and indeed it is fairly episodic. But in the end I really warmed up to Archie Moffam (pronounced "moom") & co. The ending is cliche but so unexpected that it's a charming way to wrap up the story.It wasn't until this novel that I realized part of why Waugh must have loved Wodehouse so well (other than his impeccable prose style). The part of Waugh that "liked things to go wrong" must of course have delighted in the cycle of peril, scheme, frustration, and peril anew.
Finished 2 Jan 2012. This is a perfect book for reading one chapter at a time, perhaps before bedtime. It was originally bunches of short stories that were combined into a book. Archie seems to get out of scraps and make everyone like him...everyone but his dear old fatherinlaw. And all his attempts to change this only make things worse. PS Lucille, his wifey, though playing a smaller part, is quite wonderful.
[1921] Classic P.G. Wodehouse. Kept wanting to call it the Misadventures of Archie, which would have been a more apt, but also a more predictable title, I guess. Really funny, endearing characters, fun, light read. Was adapted from a series of short stories for magazine publications and you could tell - only barely hung together as a novel - but it didn't matter.
The protagonist always knows a large number of people who happen to be able to help other friends with their specific problems (one friend can't get his song published but another friend is a music producer).Perhaps because I have only read a few of Wodehouse's books it still feels new and original to me.
So far this hasn't been a big deal because the situations, while starting out the same always ended differently.Several scenes in “The Indiscretions of Archie” started out looking like they would follow comedy cliché right through, then things changed.
In which Wodehouse’s plot occurs after the boy is happily married to the gal.
I read this only for a challenge.
Wodehouse without Jeeves or Blandings isn't exactly high on my list of to be reads.
However, Archie is a good egg.
His father in law doesn't think so, but Archie is married to his beloved daughter and he has to put up with this person who doesn't seem to have a bean to his name and no particular interest to actually work either.
He does get caught up in all sorts of situations, and his generally helpful nature and hopeful demeanor helps him get through a whole lot of things.
It's not my favorite Wodehouse, but it'll do.
It somehow feels that the book is a mix of a lot of short, funny stories, strung together. I certainly liked the author's other books much better than this one. I hope the next Wodehouse book I pick up does better justice to the storyline.
Either it was not one of Wodehouse's finest hours when he wrote this or I am finally beginning to become unenamored with his brand of humour. I do hope it's the former!
Such fresh fruity brilliance!
As with all of Wodehouse's books, I laughed out loud continuously
Jolly good, I’d say! The subtle humour was absolutely refreshing.
It has the air of Jeeves tactfully sweeping Wooster's latest idiocy under the rug.)This book is one of many proofs that Wodehouse's true genius lay, not in merely creating a comic idiot--which he certainly could do, for no one is more deft when it comes to daft--but in creating a noble comic idiot, an idiot that the reader loves and roots for and sympathizes with.
While the pacing and format isn't close to what Wodehouse is capable of, it's always fun to read about, and towards the end moments of genuine genius begin to shoot up like so many crocuses in the spring.
Mr Brewster feeling for Archie is similar to his own family and rather than be a novel at all ‘The Indiscretions of Archie’ are a series of episodes with Archie trying and generally failing to curry the favour of his father in law.
The book is basically a series of short stories with a constant theme, that’s not intended as a criticism as Wodehouse is the master of the short form and as an entertainment this book cannot be better, just don’t expect enlightening as to any of the words theological questions.Archie is a self confessed ‘ass, genus priceless, an ass yes but not a silly ass’, a sort of Bertie Wooster but with a modicum of Jeeves’ insight which suggest solutions to the problems with which he is faced.
Amusing, not Wodehouse's best.I actually listened to a Libra Vox audio book of this title, read by the always excellent Mark Nelson.
The story is amusing, but the main character is annoying.
Hearing the story I had assumed that this was an early Wodehouse effort, done before he had mastered his craft.
Wodehouse can create sympathetic characters, but Archie is not one of them.
Dick Van Dyke in Mary Poppins was more realistic.The book is episodic, like a collection of short stories.
In each episode Archie does something well meaning that ends up in disaster and annoys his father in law.
G. Wodehouse, and it obviously suffers from being a series of short stories published in 1920 and 1921.
By themselves the short stories are funny and delightful in pure Wodehouse-manner, but the attempt to weld them together to a single story doesn't work that well for me.
The stories were altered and edited to make them fit together as a single narrative, yet it doesn't.
The jumps between the different stories are just too visible, and at times they're a bit jarring as it jumps from one story to another without proper closure.This s a minor grievance though.
Wodehouse's language is as colourful and eccentric as always.
Perhaps it is due to reading so many of Wodehouse's other novels after it that coming back to this book it doesn't hold up as well.
While this other novels the plot weaves nicely knitting the chapters together, whereas here each chapter is episodically.
This is unfortunate because I find Archie a likely enough character and perhaps a little more average than some of his heroes that sometimes come off a something as a touch too much to a knight in shining armor type level that few of us can obtain.
I don't want this to be a complaint, though, as my affection for Wodehouse literature is undying; I enjoy experiencing new (well, new to me, of course) literature from the man and when I first opened this book I was bloody looking forward to it.
I enjoyed it in that reading is my escape and what better way to do that than to peruse a Wodehouse piece!
(Wow, I appear to be slobbering over the man!)I will begin Love Among the Chickens soon and will have to as well re-read my collection of the Wooster and Jeeves chronicles.
I want to start by saying that the librivox reading was fantastic, Mark Nelson always does a superb job.That said, this was easily my least favorite Wodehouse work so far.
I found the main character too obtuse to even be enjoyable, I mean, he didn't seem to have a redeeming quality like Wooster who is hapless, but still witty.
It was like watching the first season of the Office, it was just too awkward to even be funny.
This being an earlier work, I dont think Wodehouse had found the balance yet between useless and funny.
This is an early Wodehouse set in New York where war veteran Archie moves with his new bride the daughter of hotel owner Brewster.
Archie and his father-in-law do not get along.
He loves his wife and strives to please his father-in-law, not unlike Freddy Threepwood.
Though Archie's adventures usually end badly - for himself or his father-in-law.
This is a series of short tales woven together by Wodehouse but transparently episodic.
Lots of good fun and little effort required for reading.
It took me longer to read this than it should have as I savored it, saving the latter part to be enjoyed bit by bit.
Archie is Wooster without Jeeves.
Worse yet, at least from a Woosterian viewpoint, Archie is married -- and happily!
Both are masters of red-faced frustration and the slow burn.Lucille, Dan's daughter and Archie's new bride, seems too good to be true.
She adores Archie for the simple fact that he adores her and is downright mystified that such a beautiful creature should even give him so much as a second look, let alone her love and hand in marriage.Yes, it's a comic fantasy!Gerald Everett JonesAuthor of the Rollo Hemphill novels- in paperback and ebook -http://www.boychiklit.com
This book starts off as a fairly typical early Wodehouse, with thin characterization, but plenty of humour and wonderful language.
In fact the book must be unusual amongst the Wodehouse canon in that is has a married couple at its centre, and a couple who love each other.
There are laugh-out-loud moments, some O Henry type plots - the book is almost a series of connected short stories - and the Wodehouse verve in regard to the way things are put increases as the book progresses, as though he was gradually letting himself go more and more.This turned out to be a nice surprise, and it's only taken me some fifty years to get round to reading it.
[…]”A lovely observation:The only other occupant of the lift was a striking-looking woman of foreign appearance, dressed in a way that made Archie feel that she must be somebody or she couldn’t look like that.
A general summary of the progress of Archie throughout the novel:He had had one of those sudden, luminous ideas, which help a man who does not do much thinking to restore his average.And my reaction to the whole thing:The child’s happy laughter rang over the restaurant.
Whatever anybody else might think of the affair, this child liked it and was prepared to go on record to that effect.
It's one of Wodehouse's early works, and maybe he just hadn't hit his stride yet.
I actually became intrigued reading this early Wodehouse work.
It is a picaresque novel (homage and apologies to Pickwick Papers and Don Quixote, both clearly in another league) without much of a continuing plot, more a series of independent episodes loosely tied together by wife Lucille's adoring love of husband Archie and father-in-law's loathing of him.
But plot is almost irrelevant in a Wodehouse novel, the delight residing in the word-play, cliches, and drollery.The point of reading this was for a relaxing diversion at the end of each day.
This is one of those books where I really wish you could give half stars.
I haven't read any Wodehouse before 'Archie'.
Maybe I should have asked a fan what a good starter for him is--having read some of the other comments, perhaps this wasn't the best one for a WV (Wodehouse Virgin).At any rate, this is a culture clash story between a happy-go-lucky young married Brit and his American father-in-law.
The book had the taste of a sitcom--each chapter is more or less a stand-alone episode, with the bungling protag's antics and the stock gang to back him up.
If you only read one P.G. Wodehouse book in your lifetime, it should be this one.
Archie is probably the most endearing of Wodehouse's characters.
He's well meaning, but not very smart, and doesn't realize when his actions negatively impact others.
But because of his natural charm (and a lot of luck), everything always turns out alright in the end.
In that way this book reminds me of Bab: A Sub-Deb. The structure is interesting, because it looks like a novel at first glance, but it's really more of a collection of short stories, with something of a through-story.
I want more Archie!
Better as short story still a good readBetter as short stories than being sewed together as a story.. but throughly enjoyed reading it.. wodehouse as always is the man
