https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/43927.No_Second_Chance
I know some may think Harlan Coben beneath them, but let me explain why I find myself enjoying his books: First, I'm tired as heck of books where nothing happens but blushes hidden and a cough of disapproval.
Third, I agree with most of Coben's values, like this snippet from No Second Chance: "Edgar belongs to that unique class of the entitled who have deluded themselves into believing that they somehow earned their status through hard work.
29)"I've lived my entire life trying to meet unrealistic standards: let me have my light reading.
No Second Chance is a first-rate crime thriller, somewhat slow at times but overall very engaging and well-written.
Dr. Marc Seidman has been shot twice, his wife has been murdered, and his six-month-old daughter has been kidnapped. When he gets the ransom note-he knows he has only one chance to get this right. But there is nowhere he can turn and no one he can trust.Okay, so this book is a little "can't happen in real life" but Harlan Coben is such an incredible writer that you kinda forget it and just let yourself be sucked in.
The first novel I read of his was part of the Myron Bolitar series and I so seriously disliked Myron and his sarcastic ways that I dismissed Cobens' books completely.Then, a long airplane ride forced me to reconsider and I found myself enjoying his Tell No One. Smart, complicated and a likable protagonist (a far cry from Myron).No Second Chance falls between the two ends of the spectrum, but closer to the good end.
But Seidman cares only about finding his daughter and flees the hospital with the help of his business partner and his best-friend/attorney.Seidman receives a ransom note for his daughter, and two million dollars from his father-in-law to meet the ransom demand, but the exchange goes awry and he is forced to leave without his daughter.The author quickly begins to plant several question marks on the who/how/why of the kidnapping and murder of Seidman's family.
Once again, Coben brings out his method of giving us a deeply tangled web of lies and deceptions to comb through to get the answers, but the tangling doesn't happen until the very end of the story although we begin to get hints of it along the way.

Another fantastic page turner from Coben. This novel had such thrilling moments that I found myself totally and completely immersed in it and in complete Coben tradition, a 180 hits you at the end which I love. Great book! Coben is a must read author!!!!!!
מוניקה נהרגת ומארק כמעט מת מהיריות אבל כשמארק מתעורר לאחר 12 ימים הוא מגלה שבתו התינוקת נעלמה.ה FBI חוקרים וגם המשטרה וככל שהזמן עובר כך הם מגבשים תיאוריה על פיה מארק אשם.
החוטף מודיע למארק שאם יערב את המשטרה או ה FBI לא תהיה הזדמנות שניה.אבל, כמו בסיפורים גם אחרי שהמשטרה וה FBI מפשלים, מארק מקבל הזדמנות, שניה וגם שלישית.העלילה נמתחת על פי שנתיים, עד דרישת הכופר הראשונה ולאחר דרישת הכופר השניה.
כשמגיעה דרישת הכופר השניה מארק מכניס לתמונה את אהובתו מהאוניברסיטה, רייצ'ל, סוכנת FBI לשעבר, איתה לא היה בקשר 11 שנים.
He had been shot and left for dead; his wife was killed and their six month old daughter,Tara, is missing.When he gets a ransom note, he is desperate to save his daughter's life.
It is not sucessufl and Marc feels he has lost it all.Then , 18 months later, he DOES get a second chance--despite the title--and this time he decides not to involve the police.
Last time his disobeyed the noted and called the police; this time he will not take that risk....So he soon finds himself talking lots of others risks.....And he soons finds out that what appeared to be a simple robbery-kidnapping has more to it than that.
Another great Harlan Coben missing person mystery. You never know what to expect with his books, which makes you keep reading until the very end!
No Second Chance doesn't represent Coben at the very top of his game, and it took me about twenty pages to become completely rapt, but it's near enough that peak that it's still better than the best that most other thriller writers at work today could aspire to.
In other words, it's a reet belter, you bet.Plastic surgeon Marc Seidman wakes up in hospital to discover that the wife whom he loved only halfheartedly has been murdered and the baby daughter he adored is missing.
This is my third book by Coben and although it wasn't my favorite (that still remains as my first read Tell No One by Coben) it was a solid second.
Things go from bad to worse as Marc finally hears from his daughter's kidnappers...can he get her back without getting himself killed in the process???This book had me almost on edge from the very beginning.
It didn't matter because I wasn't for sure and this is an author that constantly keeps you guessing.
I'm a huge fan of this author and I've only read three of his books.
Synopsis/blurb....No Second Chance is yet another of Harlan Coben's terrifying explorations of the worst of fears--Marc Seidman wakes in hospital after narrowly surviving a shooting in which his wife died and their baby daughter went missing.
All of his other books are standalones, including this 2003 effort, No Second Chance.Over the past year, I have maybe read 4 or 5 Coben’s as he is an author that my wife enjoys.
If only life turned out like a Harlan Coben book, we’d all probably sleep a lot better in our beds at night, most of the time at least.3 from 5My/our copy was second hand and I’m unsure where or when I acquired it, not too recently that’s for sure.http://col2910.blogspot.co.uk/2013/07...
When you dream about the mystery unraveling in the book you are reading, you can be pretty certain it is a great book.
Marc is not the type of plastic surgeon you normally think of when you hear the term.
He could make a lot more money doing the conventional type of plastic surgery, but he loves what he does for a living.
Marc believes that Tara is alive – somewhere and he will not give up until her finds her.
I thought I had worked out at least part of the mystery while I slept.
And truth be told, if push came to shove, I would lay down yours too..."This is my first read of a Harlan Coben book.
A coworker suggested him to me when we were discussing our favorite books & authors last week.
Within a very short amount of time, I was hooked and wanted to keep on reading.
As you can probably tell from the quote above, the book is about a parents love for their child.
Loved how this kept me guessing until the end.
No spoilers, I'll just leave you with the advice to read it!


Dr. Marc Seidman has been shot, his wife murdered and his baby daughter kidnapped. When Marc is finally ready to go home from the hospital his wealthy, priggish father-in-law summons him to see the ransom note.Seidman goes against instructions and involves the police and things go terribly wrong. Marc soon finds himself turned upside down in an attempt to try and find his daughter.Just when you think you have it figured out the story hits another bump and twist and you start all over. A great set of twists and turns where nothing is as it seems.
I have mixed feelings about this book.
For starters, I found it to be slow in some parts rather then getting to the point.
However, the last part of the book was page turner with trying to figure out who was involved.
Likewise, the book does have a plot twist that I did love!
The betray of right and wrong is rather complex in the book and left up for the reader to decide!
It would not be my first choice to read by Coben simply because I like fast pace books, but if one has a little extra time on their hands I recommend reading it.
Harlan Coben does a great job of giving his characters interesting professions and portraying them well. There's enough detail to make you think he was a plastic surgeon in a past life.This novel was funny but the support characters are a little unbelievable. At one time or another three of them lend the protagonist their cars, one of which had just met him.Nevertheless it is the same page turning thriller that this best selling author is famous for.
Being a forever "Jersey Girl" even though I'm now located in MT. Even if HC's books weren't packed with wit and a sharp 'Jersey edge' I think I would still like them based on how familiar the locations are. This book is no exception, and although I enjoyed it very much, I must admit it should be nominated for some "most sub'plots ever' award.
I love these sorts of stories where ordinary people are put through the wringer and have their lives turned upside down and then have to do stuff they've never done before to save their families/own skins/whatever. In typical Coben fashion he takes us to hell and back. Good twist at the end. A good, gripping yarn.
It was very sad what became of the friendship between Marc & Lenny. As always Mr. Coben delivered an awesome read!
I was right!!! Had my suspicions about a certain character and turned out to be right.
Interesante e inquietante novela, de esas que te agarran en las primeras páginas y ya no te sueltan.
This book was great and definitely my favorite kind of book, psychological thriller. The author never disappoints. Harlan Coben is always one of my favorites. I could not put this book down. I've spent all weekend reading it and it was well worth it. I will continue to read any book I can by this author.
Harlan Coben raramente desilude :)Mais um bom livro deste autor, uma história interessante cheia de ritmo. É daquelas q apetece ler sem parar, ainda mais qdo se vem de um livro do Richard Zimler.
Even gevreesd dat het routineus zou worden, maar na 50 bladzijden komt de vintage Coben boven, smullen...
I usually love Harlan Coben books, and I mostly loved this one :) Interesting story but with a LOT of subplots....sometimes they knocked the main story a little off its pace. Excellent twists, and loved how the ending came together.
Another really good one by Coben. When the author can nearly make me weep while keeping me enthralled and turning the pages then I know I've finished a good one.
