https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/41012533-fear
And naturally this constant whirlwind of ignorance as a management style has created a whirlwind of people spinning out of control while they simultaneously try to control or please him.There is little new news in this book (except for a harrowing account of how close Trump came to declaring war with North Korea, with no understanding of the ramifications of doing so!), but Woodward is every much the historian that Doris Kearns Goodwin is writing about past presidents, and this book is an alive blow-by-blow meticulous record that will be studied by students who have not yet been born—if we live to see that future.
…the only thing we have to fear is fear itself - Franklin Delano Roosevelt Inaugural address – March 4, 1933 Real power is—I don’t even want to use the word—fear. - Presidential candidate Donald J. Trump in an interview with Bob Woodward and Robert Costa on March 31, 2016FDR was correct. The fear that gripped the nation in the Great Depression may have had a basis in reality, but acceding to that fear could have hindered any attempts to make the dire economic situation better. Would Roosevelt f
The focus of Woodward’s book is on one particular form of fear, the concern the people who work for Donald Trump have that he might do serious damage to the United States, and even to the world, either in his handling of potentially fraught negotiations, domestic or international, (there is particular attention paid to dealings with South and North Korea that illustrates this very well) or in his need to preserve his freedom, and privilege, by destroying respected norms and institutions.
It’s Bob Woodward. How do you think Trumpworld will react? Woodward is methodical, precise, and willing to hold anyone to account, regardless of political stripe.https://www.politico.eu/blogs/on-medi...
Move over, Stephen King, Bob Woodward has written the most terrifying book in years.
From his rambling tirades, to his painful ignorance, to his absolute steadfast intentions to push for his own interests and casting aside the greater needs of our country, Woodward paints an revoltingly intimate portrait of a man who conned an entire country and seems determined to watch it all burn in his wake.
I just want a competent, compassionate president who has the greater interests of our country in their heart.
Woodward's intricate and detailed reporting gives us incredibly specific examples of our president's malfeasance and the shock and awe not only among our allies, but within his own White House.
Revelation?  “Cohn realised that Trump had gone bankrupt six times and seemed not to mind. Bankruptcy was just another business strategy. Walk away, threaten to blow up the deal. Real power is fear.”   Donald Trump is probably the most divisive President in US history and has created a polarised nation between those believing he is honestly and strategically playing a role to achieve gains for the US, and those who think he’s destructive, stumbling from one, sometimes self-imposed, incident to a
Donald Trump is probably the most divisive President in US history and has created a polarised nation between those believing he is honestly and strategically playing a role to achieve gains for the US, and those who think he’s destructive, stumbling from one, sometimes self-imposed, incident to another.
As US President, one of the most powerful men in the world, he is responsible for global politics, economics and national security, and IT IS a matter of life and death.
Whether open-minded pro-Trump supporters will see their President in a different light, is an interesting question.I would recommend reading this book as it does provoke interest and debate but don’t expect any great revelations.
(Speaking of getting things done: in addition to their collaborations, Woodward has to date completed seventeen books.
Predictably, they seem to be big-time players already ejected from the administration: Bannon, Priebus, Cohn, Porter, McMaster, Tillerson, and Dowd, with an occasional scene contributed by a peripheral player, such as Lyndsey Graham or Chris Christie.The sad fact, though, is that little is to be learned from Fear, in spite of all the hype.
But this is an unnecessary virtue when you are writing about a White House where everybody leaks all the time.I’m not saying you don’t learn things from the book.
Woodward offers the reader some insights into this time, where Trump was fuelled by a passionate hatred of President Obama and how he would do anything to derail or dismantle programs put in place, making promises at rallies and seeking to enact them as soon as he had a presidential seat.
I encourage Bob Woodward to return to this topic after the Trump presidency has ended (however that will come about), as I would read that book, which can explore the entire experience in a single arc.
I am sure this will be rather scandalous so I will have tons of candy and good food to accompany me.I am not gonna engage in heated political discussions - I do it enough outside GR - but I am interested on reading this with neutral-Trumps, anti-Trumps and pro-Trumps as I am interested on seeing your views and reactions to this book - not as an outsider but in a spirit of insider experiment.So, do you have got what I need, punk?Here is the link for the group, ladies and gentlemen: https://www.goodreads.com/group/show/...I am a n00b with groups, so if there is a problem, message me here in this comment section.
But more than two years of slavishly, horrifiedly(!) following a spectrum of US news sites and tweeters has changed that.First, I read and reviewed Fire and Fury (my review HERE), as one of the early headline-grabbing books of Trump’s regime.Then, A Day in the Life of Marlon Bundo (my review HERE), as it was refreshingly fun, and with a good, positive message.
(With hundreds of pages of detailed notes, plus hours of recordings, I’m sure their identities will eventually be proven.)“It’s not what we did for the country… It’s what we saved him from doing.” - Gary Cohn.That gives hope to those who still fear what this unpredictable and unprincipled president might do.Image: “Hope” by George Frederic Watts.
I grew up with the Watergate hearings on our television - along with Vietnam, of course - every single day.
Just as Woodward listened to Deep Throat and wrote about that informant's information and kept that source a secret for decades, he again has listened to informants and recorded the despicable acts committed by an entire group of people but namely, Donald Trump.
Americans can get riled up until hell freezes over regarding political parties but that is not what this is about.
The book - the one being read and reviewed - was written by a capable journalist whose facts are very succinctly laid out.
I don't know how others see it, but it's clear to me the real pushback Trump ever got had to do with tariffs and South Korea.
I don't know why the White House needed to rebut anything written in this book.
But Trump's supporters love it!What depressed me the most not that the book draws Trump as the small, limited person that he is, but that he will achieve most of what he aims to achieve, because he has the likes of Lindsey Graham and Mike Pence around to help him.
This is America now; and it can be changed only by people voting in the next election.
i am going to read the hell out of this book (as soon as it is beamed to my kindle).
Occasionally Goodreads members review a book using non-conventional criteria to protest bad behavior by the author on the site, or to protest the author or the author’s subject.
A friend, Mike who commented below, pointed out what became painfully clear, Woodward gives a remedial lesson on every topic before he rehashes the news of the last 24 months.
Same thing here.If Woodward was able to put the Trump presidency and all its horror into some kind of historical or political context that has not been reported before--bring his wisdom to bear--that might have made the book worthwhile.
Unfortunately, Woodward offers no lessons, just rehashes information and news.
I once owned a bunch of his Clinton, Bush books, but I found them obnoxious and DC proximity porn.
While I think some of the information gleaned by Woodward for this book is worth the proximity porn, I still don't like his style.
I'm also not a fan of the actual writing of this book.
Does it convince me more that Trump is a danger, an idiot, self-absorbed, reckless, without a moral compass, lacking empathy, compassion, loyalty, etc.?
But I figured most of that out from JUST Trump's tweets.
Anyway, I'll write more later, but I'm done with Trump for the night.
The results are either wise men restraining the worst impulses of a mad king, or an administrative coup by the Deep State, depending on how you feel.
They're men Trump appointed, praised, and mostly refused to fire.
The revolving door outside the Oval Office is interesting, but Woodward doesn't have much to say about the things that really matter about Trump.
I'm not sure how any ostensible patriot can square that cowardice with their support of the man.Woodward's book doesn't reveal any deep truths.
Find all of my reviews at: http://52bookminimum.blogspot.com/ “Can you come with me up to New York?”“For what?”“To see Donald Trump.”“What about?”“He’s thinking of running for president.”“Of what country?” If you have ever bothered tuning in to the fake news, or read any failing publication or interacted with another human being in the past few years at all, nothing contained within the bindings of Fear will be new to you. I’m not a “let’s talk politics” on social media type of person and I’ve a
“Can you come with me up to New York?”“For what?”“To see Donald Trump.”“What about?”“He’s thinking of running for president.”“Of what country?”
I know that’s what Hillary was for me.As soon as Trump threw his name in the ring I told my husband he never planned on winning.
Running for President was simply a marketing ploy for Trump.
But at some point I think Trump began drinking his own Kool-Aid. I will never believe that on election night he expected to lose.
He simply wanted to win and make everyone admit that he’s “the best.” Eventually Trump will no longer be President and actual sourced information will be divulged.
Hire people on the spot, regardless of qualifications, and fire people on whim if he happens to be in a bad mood.Agent Orange doesn’t know anything about the world.
Agent Orange knows that all Muslims are evil and ISIS is bad, so go for it general!At dawn on a Sunday morning, the raid goes into action.
But at least she has a medal and a flag.Though Agent Orange knows nothing about economics, his followers think he’s some kind of finance genius.
But Agent Orange still admires their leaders.
This isn't my first book on the 2016 Election, chump's campaign or presidency.
That this strategy is successful with the president is humorous and horrifying in equal measures.What stuck with me was members of his cabinet needing to every single day explain the exact same facts to this man.
The author describes the repetitiveness of this process as 'groundhog day' like the movie with Bill Murray.Part of the problem is that chump believes he has the solution when he doesn't understand the question or issue.
I had zero interest in this book until POTUS started a tweetstorm about it last night. Well, now I HAVE to read it. Do you ever wonder if that's actually his goal? Maybe Trump is the Master of reverse psychology. Maybe he hates the Republican Party. Maybe he was actually tired of the USA dominating the world stage and decided to bring it down by exploding from within ...**** UPDATE (now that I've actually read the book): The reality was that the United States in 2017 was tethered to the words an
Here's the short version: Gary Cohn and Lindsey Graham are Trump's top advisors, Rob Porter is great, Steve Bannon is a man of the people, and Trump is dangerously ignorant when it comes to economics and global relations.
He doesn’t know what he’s talking about,” Kelly said.***Cohn realized that Trump had gone bankrupt six times and seemed not to mind.
Translation: Bannon and Priebus were good sources for this book, and Woodward worked hard to maintain that relationship, meanwhile Jared and Ivanka refused to talk to him.It's pretty clear that Woodward finds global issues fascinating, and domestic issues (including Trump's sexual harassment history, general sexist attitude, and blatant racism) to be completely uninteresting and barely worth mentioning.
more dirt on the dirtiest creep to ever occupy the whitehouse... thank you bob!!!*********rofl, lol, lmfao, hahahahahahahahahaha, etc....https://www.bbc.com/news/world-us-can...say it with me - "coup d'état! coup d'état! coup d'état!"**************it's gotta be John Kellyhttps://www.nytimes.com/2018/09/05/op...*************early reviews of the book are... good?https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=KwA1v...
Most of the interesting bits of this book have already been revealed in news stories. The book confirms that Trump is a dumb, ignorant, narcissistic, arrogant and mean liar. We already knew that, but his followers don't seem to care. I doubt that this book will help much. When you populate each branch of the government with people who lack integrity, compassion and decency, the checks and balances system won't work. However, at least this author has better credentials and more credibility than others who have written about this chaotic presidency. His writing style is extremely dry.
I'm not finished. I'm coming back to it. But for the moment, I hate this narcissistic sociopath so much that it's actually causing me anxiety to read about him. Hopefully, when he's fitted for his orange suit, this will be easier reading.
Anyone who has seen Trump in action should not be surprised by many of the horrifying revelations in this book.
After reading this book, I did not see any evidence that Bob Woodward believes there is a better version of Trump within the realm of possibility.
I have no doubt that everything that Woodward has set to print is verifiable fact.
Unfortunately, I also have no doubt that there are people who, no matter the proof, will bury their heads in the sand and cry conspiracy.
Woodward is credible, and I know that there are Americans who will read this book and will pause.
If not for cooler heads, Trump might have: given serious thought to assassinating Syrian President Bashar al-Assad and Supreme Leader of North Korea, Kim Jong un.....whom he calls 'Little Rocket Man'; pulled all American troops out of Afghanistan; closed United States bases in South Korea; summarily fired Special Counsel Robert Mueller; and more.Of course, the people around Trump can't guide everything he does.
James Mattis - Secretary of DefensePresident Trump and H.R. McMaster - National Security Advisor - NAFTA and TPPTrump wants to renegotiate (or withdraw from) the North American Free Trade Agreement - which governs trade among Canada, the United States, and Mexico; and the Trans Pacific Partnership - a regional free trade deal between America and 11 other nations.
Although this book is written by a distinguished journalist, it is unlikely that any Trump supporters will read it.
In fact, the whole thing reads rather as though Trump is a small child, needing to be contained and controlled.
He had slogans, and chants, which appealed to his mass audience, but – as this book shows – during his campaign, he didn’t – for one second – think he would lose, but, also, never really imagined that he would win… After an election which caused shock around the world, he reacted by randomly offering jobs to everyone who came within his orbit.
Perhaps that is really the most shocking thing about this book.
It's almost worth reading the entire thing just for the last sentence, which is the biggest non-spoiler ever: The president is a F%&*ing Liar.
Our president watches a lot of TV and gets his information and opinions from TV pundits.
This is what Bannon says when he quits--Trump was able to get through the Hillary juggernaut, but not the GOP.
I want to say that this is the last of these books I am going to read, but I know I won't be able to keep this promise.
Description: With authoritative reporting honed through eight presidencies from Nixon to Obama, author Bob Woodward reveals in unprecedented detail the harrowing life inside President Donald Trump’s White House and precisely how he makes decisions on major foreign and domestic policies.
Fear is the most intimate portrait of a sitting president ever published during the president’s first years in office.The takeaway is that this backs up all that Wolff wrote in Fire and Fury: Inside the Trump White House.
Rachel Maddow rounds up highlights from Bob Woodward's new book, Fear, which depicts chaos in the Trump White House as staffers struggle to compensate for Trump's abject incompetence.4* All the President's Men5* The Final DaysWL Fear
I bought and read Ivanka Trump’s book of hints ad cheerleading for working women, which I thought was an amazing and banal pastiche of clichés and platitudes from someone largely clueless about real working women.
I’m no delicate snowflake, but I will admit that what I read here, in one interview after another, one incident of subterfuge and deceit after another, endless attempts to thwart and manipulate what goes on in the Oval Office and outside it, and of allegedly trying to protect the country from its president to be more fear-inducing than Khrushchev’s missiles parked 90 miles from the US coast.Don’t expect a book that reads like an expanded National Enquirer or Daily Mail.
I'd guess that it won't have much appeal to Trump supporters; but that said, anyone looking for confirmation of his bullying people he doesn't consider to be "loyal" and bludgeoning anyone who gets in his way will find it in spades and call it a tribute to a [Make America] great man.Detractors will, of course, cry "fake news," but I don't buy it; the author is reporting what others have seen and heard, with everything documented, footnoted and otherwise verified (a substantial portion of the book, in fact, consists of Source Notes).
The focus is on the debates and decision making in the Oval Office, the situation room, Air Force One and the White House residence with Trump’s most trusted advisors.
But reading FEAR I realized it’s even worse than I thought.
Trump refuses to read his own daily briefing book, preferring to fly by the seat of his pant and interestingly finds the pace in the Oval Office hard to handle.
His personal staff spend the majority of their time trying to prevent Trump for making disastrous mistakes.
