https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/200572.My_Man_Jeeves
He's like one of those weird chappies in India who dissolve themselves into thin air and nip through space in a sort of disembodied way and assemble the parts again just where they want them.Most people today probable associate Jeeves with the man that has all the answers not because they have read P.G. Wodehouse, but because they have accessed Ask Jeeves on the web.
I was popping off answers to emails at work yesterday and after reading back through one such message I discovered bits of Wodehouse lilt to my language.
Now of course I couldn't read the books without seeing Stephen Fry and Hugh Laurie as Jeeves and Wooster.
This one contains 9 stories with 5 of them telling Jeeves and Wooster adventures in New York.
While as the whole I liked these less the second Reggie Pepper story contained the only scene of the book which made me laugh out loud.
Every single one of the problems of friends of Wooster and Pepper could be completely solved by making them (friends that is) getting a soul-sucking job 9 to 5 the majority of modern people have; every single one.
In the conclusion the book was amusing enough to earn 4 stars, just do not expect laugh out loud scaring the people around you while reading.
Slapstick Aristocracy?
I guess that pretty much sums it up.
:)It's pretty and pretty much the beginning of all other similar writings and imitators, and for that, I really appreciate it.
Moreso, it's funny and still relevant even if it's just a tad dated.
We've still got tons of historical novel interest, but this one was timely for its day in 1919.The timing and the idiocy and the fairly complicated plotting in the background really made poor Wooster shine as the idjit that he is.
I heartily recommend this for anyone interested in the humorous classics.
Who am I to argue with these brainy blighters?All the stories are about helping a friend out of a difficult situation, usually disinheritance; and they tend to involve deception, stealing or a harebrained scheme of some kind.
My own Aunt Agatha, back in England, has looked at me in exactly the same way many a time, and it never fails to make my spine curl.”When I review a short story collection I usually write a brief note for each individual story.
Not this time, old scout, the stories tend to be fairly similar.
While there are very few things a good Old Fashioned and a plate of freshly baked chocolate chip cookies can’t improve, Wodehouse might be the most effective remedy of all.As noted in a review of another Wodehouse classic, Jeeves and Wooster stories are highly formulaic, and the delight in reading them comes not from plot, but from Wodehouse’s bracingly hilarious prose and what-the-hell-does-that-mean slang.
This book is no different, but take note: not every story contained herein is a Jeeves and Wooster story; some of them are Reggie Pepper stories, which knocks this down a star rating.Why, you ask?
Well, Reggie stories are like Jeeves and Wooster-lite.
Questions we might not think to ask otherwise, but then when we do ask make us wonder how else we would ever have known… For example, the other day it struck me that I don’t really read any Wodehouse in the Summertime.
And I’ve been able to check when I read all my Wodehouse's and it is true.
I guess the reason for that is that I don’t need his warmth and sunlight and laughter in the Summertime, but come the Winter he is like a hotwater bottle in between starched white sheets.
He's had better goes at it with say The Code of the Woosters, The Mating Season or Stiff Upper Lip, Jeeves.
And then there's the issue of all these Jeeves & Wooster stories being set in New York.
Wodehouse's American characters living in America are dull.
When a book's titled My Man Jeeves it'd better be carpetted wall-to-wall with Jeeves.
Only about half of the stories are about the Jeeves and Wooster dynamic duo.
No, it's a decent enough book and a good one to start off your Wodehouse reading career.
Stories of rich men being nice to their fellow rich friends, or deceiving their rich families. That there is an inherent goodness in Wooster (or his doppelganger, Pepper--Wodehouse switches protagonists & they are pretty identical other than by name, which is indeed part of the theme that all aristocrats are equally dim) may be the takeaway here, in these modern times. Jeeves is the perpetual Everyman, trapped in a world he's too good for, being appreciated & always adulated by the Gods; remaining in that constant position, in some unworthy person's life (tragically so).
I'd seen the 1990's British show Jeeves and Wooster back in junior high, but this was my first time actually reading the stories.
There's tons of weird humor in the stories and all kinds of small adventures, not to mention wacky versions of the rich and strange and also Wooster himself, a well-meaning but not particularly bright guy who sort of just happened to fall into good fortune but doesn't flaunt it around the way people might expect.
My only problem with this anthology is that only have its stories were actually about the titular characters; the rest were about a somewhat unmemorable character who wasn't nearly as interesting.
3-faithful-to-nostalgia-starsRe-reading childhood favorites may not always be a good idea.The caricatures images of Stephen Fry and Hugh Laurie will forever be etched in my mind as Jeeves and Wooster (can't imagine anybody else in the role of these two characters.) I don't know whether that is a good thing or not...The stories did manage to make me giggle and break out into a chuckle once or maybe twice...can't say much beyond that. In all honesty it was just an okay read, which will be a 2 starred reading experience for me. Adding one more for old-times-sake.
EXCERPT: Jeeves - my man, you know - is really a most extraordinary chap.
My Man Jeeves is sure to please anyone with a taste for pithy buffoonery, moronic misunderstandings, gaffes, and aristocratic slapstick.Contents:"Leave It to Jeeves""Jeeves and the Unbidden Guest" "Jeeves and the Hard-boiled Egg" "Absent Treatment""Helping Freddie""Rallying Round Old George""Doing Clarence a Bit of Good""The Aunt and the Sluggard" MY THOUGHTS: I had, of course, heard of Jeeves, but until I was sick in bed some time ago and had the great fortune to discover the TV series playing, I had never encountered Wodehouse's paragon of virtue.
The downside to acquainting yourself with Wodehouse, at a ripe old age, is that you don't glean anything else out of his writing other than the humor and that too appears to be strangely contrived in ways. And the repeated usage of words such as 'chappie', 'rummy' and 'chump' end up annoying you more than you thought was possible.Another author I should have read as a teenager. *sigh*
The story is told by a new character (for me), Reggie Pepper - a wealthy boulevardier that comes a bit short right after Bertie Wooster, but the tale itself is quite fun.
Reggie Pepper moves to a yacht in Monte Carlo, where he is once again persuaded to give a helping hand to a friend in need.
The last story brings us back to New York's bubbling night scene, where Bertie Wooster tries to help his recluse poet friend Rockmetteller 'Rocky' Todd convince a wealthy aunt that he is the soul of every party and lives life to the full in the big city.
I just *love* all the British-isms in both dialogue and descriptions.
Bertie is a hilarious and quirky character, and his narration is just so fun to read.
Recommend for ages 15-16+ for interest level.A Sampling: "I tell you, Bertie, I've examined the darned cloud with a microscope, and if it's got a silver lining it's some little dissembler!""I'm a bit short on brain myself; the old bean would appear to have been constructed more for ornament than for use, don't you know;""Lady Malvern tried to freeze him with a look, but you can't do that sort of thing to Jeeves.
Four of them are Bertie and Jeeves stories, and four of them are about another character, Reggie Pepper.
The Bertie and Jeeves stories are always very formulaic, in that each story involves one of the main character’s friends (or the main character) getting into some sort of scrape, which they then must find some ingenious way to get out of, which inevitably goes horribly, horribly wrong.
They’re much like TV sitcoms in this respect, but in book form (which makes them about eighteen times better than TV sitcoms, of course).
A friend loaned me this book, having read the entire series, and I found it to be very funny and delightful! My "to read" stack is so high, I didn't feel like continuing with the series but I may take it up again someday. Great characters...
("Jeeves and the Unbidden Guest")"Jerome, are you there?" That’s what I thought after reading the first pages of Wodehouse's My Man Jeeves.
Good writing and a simple plot filled with funny anecdotes that make the book worthwhile.
19th-century people had sense of humor too, naturally (reference to Jerome and others, since Wodehouse is a 20th-century chappie).
I don’t know why I’m kind of surprised when I see myself laughing with those guys and just awkwardly smiling while reading the “funniest guys of the 21st century”.
However, sometimes his humor was so subtle that I didn't know I was reading something intended to be funny.
The first Jeeves-Wooster short story collection is akin to the wright brothers aircraft - surely a piece of genius but way ruddier than how you've grown to love them.
A collection of 8 stories - 4 of which featuring Reggie Peppers who seems like the earlier version of Bertie, always trying to help his friends.
In the last story, Bertie vacates his house to help his friend Rocky keep up a lie to his aunt.
The best story featuring Reggie is the one where he helps his friend figure out his angry wife's birthday.
Just a few reasons.- Comedy doesn't generally seem to stand the test of time as well as other genres.
I generally don't find older comedy films all that funny.
Furthermore, how funny can stuffy British Aristocrats be?- I generally don't like short story collections.
I've also found that in short-story collections, you'll find the same story essentially written multiple times, just with different characters and settings.- I'd already heard so many good things, I just didn't think it could live up to it.Well, as it turns out, my apprehensions were unfounded.
And his comedy timing is actually writing!
I love Bertie Wooster and Jeeves.
Between Jeeve's restrained resourcefulness and Bertie's self-admitted idiocy, there is a lot of potential for misadventure, and Wodehouse delivers it in droves.
Half of the short stories in this volume are Jeeves and Wooster material.
Peppers wants to be Wooster, but doesn't quite get there because, quite frankly, Peppers isn't dumb enough.I am so glad that Wodehouse decided to stick with it and followed through to give life to Bertie Wooster.
Peppers made an adequate character, but Wooster, with Jeeves as his foil, is pure stupid genius.
The Wooster stories in My Man Jeeves bear this out.
3.5 starsPretty good set of short humorous stories.This is the first thing I've read by Wodehouse, and from what I can tell from other reviewers, this isn't even his best stuff. Looking forward to getting my hands on more!
By Jove! These chappies leading a rummy life sipping in their stiff b.-and-s.And all of a sudden Woosh! Jeeves and Bertie disappear to give way to Reggie and co.Eh? What the deuce?Overall this was bally awful!... what?
He is, quite simply, the best comedic writer to ever put pen to paper.
Sadly, My Man Jeeves, whilst perfectly fine, is not amongst his best work.
Despite the book’s title, the book is not wall-to-wall Jeeves and Wooster, and half of the stories feature a proto-Bertie Wooster character called Reggie Pepper.
The others, whilst pleasant enough, do not quite cut the comedic mustard.My Man Jeeves is not the best entry point into the wonderful world of P.G. Wodehouse despite some enjoyable moments and, should you be new to Wodehouse then rest assured there are many more enjoyable and satisfying books than this one.3/5
The Bertie stories in this collection are phenomenal, but the Reggie Pepper ones are tiresome.Upon reflection, I think I prefer Bertie to Reggie because Reggie doesn't have a foil; he thinks he's very clever, and of course ends up bungling everything. Bertie is self-aware enough that his troubles are amusing, as he's not creating them by attempting to be too smart. And Bertie doesn't worry too much about his own intelligence: I was stunned by the man's resource. "It's brain," I said; "pure brain
Bertie is self-aware enough that his troubles are amusing, as he's not creating them by attempting to be too smart.
And Bertie doesn't worry too much about his own intelligence:
What do you do to get like that, Jeeves?
I believe you must eat a lot of fish, or something.
Do you eat a lot of fish, Jeeves?" "No, sir." "Oh, well, then, it's just a gift, I take it; and if you aren't born that way there's no use worrying."
The corner of his mouth curved quite a quarter of an inch, and for a moment his eye ceased to look like a meditative fish's.
I was expecting the American type of humor, aggressive and ROFL inducing.
I felt like those Johnnies who find themselves thick in a soup and doesn't know what to do :P But as I progressed through this, I began loving the writing, humor and dialogues exponentially.
Wodehouse is one author whose work I've been thinking of reading but never actually did.
PS - If you know me and think I am good enough to give a suggestion, here, take my suggestion and read a book of Wodehouse P.
S - You'll Love Jeeves P.
Calm, cool, and collected, Jeeves is always able to get Bertie and his friends out of whatever scrape they have gotten into.
Comis genius is the only description of what goes on in a Jeeves story.This book, Wodehouse's earliest writings about Jeeves, is a set of short stories, several of them about Reggie Pepper, rather than Bertie.
The two characters are almost interchangeable except for the absence of Jeeves in the Pepper stories.
Some of these stories were rewritten for later Jeeves books.If you've never read P.G. Wodhouse before, his writing is almost hard to describe.
This is the earliest collection of stories featuring Bertie Wooster and his extremely competent valet, Jeeves.
Interestingly, Bertie Wooster is hiding out in New York, having failed to carry out an errand for his indomitable Aunt Agatha and unable to face returning home to face her possible wrath.
During these stories, Wooster – or his friends – get into various scrapes and are saved by Jeeves.
Often the plans backfire, in various farcical ways, but Jeeves always has a suggestion to help rescue the situation.Some of the stories in this collection feature another character – Reggie Pepper.
He is very similar to Wooster and, again, much of the storyline concerns his friends problems.
A month is an unusually long time for me to take on a book, but this was just the perfect palate cleanser between other books.
Finish something-or-other, not sure what I want to read next, or not ready to start something just before bed, or I don't have another book in my work bag (well, except for the other 400 titles on my kindle).
Perfect for that.
Because Wodehouse can be a bit much of a muchness, reading the stories in one swell foop might get tedious.Helpful tip for the day: always have a Wodehouse book going.Library copy
The first collection to feature the inimitable Jeeves and his hapless charge, Bertie! There are several other stories as well, most of them revolving around plots to woo standoffish young ladies or convince elderly relatives to fork over money, all of them going horribly wrong. I think my favorite thing about the Jeeves and Wooster stories is the way he describes Jeeves gliding in and out of rooms so silently that he frequently scares Bertie.
Ah, Wodehouse is so delightfully funny. I always laugh reading his books, and this one was no different. I didn't realize it was short stories at first and so was a little confused when things changed in the second "chapter" but once I understood it, I really enjoyed the short story format. I'm a big fan of short stories and so I liked it!
