https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/59978.Sin_City_Vol_4
Number four - I still really hate the artwork, but the story is first rate.
There's nothing like a good vengeance tale, and Miller's story of a wronged cop finally righting the score is particularly sweet.My most bone-chilling moment?
This little speech delivered by one of the villains:Power doesn't come from a badge or a gun.
Power comes outta lying and lying big and getting the whole damned world to play along with you.
You can turn reality on its head and they'll cheer you on.This could be the stump speech of a certain short-fingered, orange vulgarian currently running for President.
You just cannot go wrong with Sin City!
I have enjoyed every volume equally so far.
You have likely seen me say in my reviews before that if I am cheering for or talking back at what I am reading it is the sign of a good book.
That is definitely how I was with this volume.
For those who have seen the first Sin City movie, you will recognize this story.
Usually the book is said to be better than the movie.
Rarely does the movie surpass the book.
Find all of my reviews at: http://52bookminimum.blogspot.com/ John Hartigan has served the police force well and his retirement is deserved, but when he gets word that little Nancy Callahan has been kidnapped he can’t just hand over his badge and gun without attempting to save her. Little does he know that his final moment of heroism will haunt him for years to come . . . For all of you who know me in real life, follow my blog, or are friends with me here, you are probably well aware that I’m qu
Little does he know that his final moment of heroism will haunt him for years to come .
Since I have more than a bit of an obsession with all things Sin City (when Starz was added to our cable package a couple of months ago I used the “on demand” option and watched the first movie EVERY.
Frank Miller reached such a level of perfection with the graphic novel version of Sin City that hardly a word was needed to be changed before its transformation to the big screen.
Sidenote: The one thing that was changed was the “grandfatherly” Hartigan being cast with the totally un-grandfatherly Bruce Willis.
The pervert is none other than the son of the most powerful man in town, Senator Roark (not a spoiler: revealed in the opening scene!), and the father swears a personal vendetta against the man who mutilated his only son.I will not reveal the rest of the story - it's a bit more straight forward that the other Sin City albums, but this is exactly what makes it more powerful for me.
Hartigan looks like a monster, but throughout the presentation he is a tower of strength and integrity.As secondary character go, the portrait of Senator Roark is another effective combination of powerful monologue and stark monochrome graphics.
That Yellow Bastard is Frank Miller's fourth graphic novel of the critically acclaimed Sin City series to be published, but in chronological terms it is the first.The first novelty that the author publishes in this book is the creation and use of a completely honest character and with unshakeable moral.His heroic and, of course, extremely violent attitude is successful, with Nancy escaping unscathed.
Without having anything to do, Hartigan heroically accepts everything quietly, driving away his wife and friends, taking only weekly letters from Nancy, signing as Cordelia, to warm his heart.But the second most welcome addition to The Yellow Bastard is the Colour.
This is the best so far of the Sin City volumes, which I am reading as part of the BIG DAMN Sin City complete collection, which is 1357 pages long and in a really BIG format, which is sort of appropriate for Miller's sort of approach to noir, mostly black and white (though this one adds yellow for the yellow bastard guy), with BIG cops and BIG women and BIG criminals and BIG splashy art).
But the art and story seem to work better here than in the previous volumes, seem a bit more inspired.
He spends it hunting down a pedophile and saving the little girl, 11-year-old Nancy Callahan.
Hartigan knows what he has to do......LIKES:Excellent writing.
Hartigan leans towards fragmented sentences and he tends to repeat himself a lot.The "hero" of this novel doesn't hit any women.
It wasn't winning any points with me and I'm glad Hartigan never strikes Nancy.Beautiful, stunning illustrations.
Hartigan is hunting down a pedophile/rapist and Nancy is 50 years younger than Hartigan and in love with him.
Also, they use the word "mensch" in the novel.
It starts slow, but gets better at the end of the third chapter! Totally reminiscent of the end of the first movie.
The name Frank Miller is a certificate for quality in the comics world, his noir series Sin City are an excellent example of a quality comic that is based purely on the writer/artist and owned by him as well.That Yellow bastard is a brilliant telling in the oldish noir style with its b/w drawings it sets the mood.
And so Hartigan goes to jail and suffers in silence with as only communication the letters of the victim he saved untill one day the letters stop coming and Hartgan gets a visitor who comes baring gifts of the sadistic kind.A great story of revenge, some gratious violence, some nudity with a bleak ending.
Frank Miller continues to weave his magic.I like that each book is basically a prequel to the book before it.Mr.Miller penchant for penning kick ass characters continues.Hartigan stole the show.Real tough cop with a big heart.Also liked how Nancy Callahan origin came about.Lastly the artwork and writing of the character the yellow bastard was truly demented and disgusting.Just the way it should be.
Until now, this is my favorite installment. Even though it's hard to pick, because "The Big Fat Kill" was also really good, I'm sticking with this one. The Yellow guy is really creepy and the fact that he is drawn in yellow in an all-black drawing work makes him stand out even more. I've already started the 5th Sin City volume.
Another story that was featured in the Sin City movie. Almost forgot all of the details to this one.https://youtu.be/LdggXkVl8gA
L'episodio è così intitolato a causa del colore che il figlio del senatore Roark ha assunto come effetto collaterale degli interventi a cui è stato sottoposto dopo il primo scontro con l'agente Hartigan.John Hartigan, un agente della polizia di Sin City ormai vicino al prepensionamento per via di una malattia cardiaca, salva una ragazzina di 11 anni di nome Nancy Callahan dalle grinfie di un pedofilo, il figlio del senatore Roark.
Al centro della storia vi è il tema della pedofilia, combattuto più volte dall'agente Hartigan, ritorna il tema della corruzione dello Stato e della polizia, il tema della tortura e dell'amore.
This is , for me, the weakest book of the series - so far.I knew most of the story from the first Sin City movie, but that was not the problem. What I like most about the books is the atmosphere they create. THe impressive dark pictures in combination with some meaningful texts (mostly monologs), that's what makes this series special. But I didn't quite get that in this one. It was somehow too little happening, to little talking, to little feeling.
Story Synopsis: (view spoiler)[Just hours before his retirement, Hartigan – an honest and devoted Sin City cop – saves the life of Nancy Callahan, maiming and castrating Roark's pedophilic son in the process.
Wrongly framed for the molestation of Nancy and assault of an "innocent" man, Hartigan spends eight years of his life in prison.
This leads to a rematch with Roark's son (i.e. The Yellow Bastard), resulting in his death and Hartigan making the ultimate sacrifice to protect Nancy – the love of his life – from Roark's wrath.
Sin City: That Yellow Bastard
By this point in reading the series I was damn sick of seeing Nancy twirl herself around on stage in that damn cowgirl outfit.
But, it's more of the intense drama that makes this series what it is, watching the character struggle with his heart conditioning just to save Nancy is, well INTENSE.
It was also nice to finally get to know Nancy (like I said, I was pretty sick of seeing her twirling around) and she turned out blandly sweet, not a character I wouldn't mind seeing again but nothing to write home about either.
Really drove home the point you know?
[Spoiler alert] John Hartigan the protagonist (and our hero) is literally only a few hours from retirement, he is in his 60's (or near enough) and saves a little girl from a fate worse then death from a psychotic son of a senator.
Hartigan takes it all to save those he cares about, sitting quietly in jail for 8 years until he finds out that the girl he saved all those years ago is in trouble and he is the only one who knows and is willing to save her from the man after her, the titular yellow bastard.
Sin City has always been a great series, but Miller outdid himself with this one.
It is ironic that in a comic drawn in black and white (and in this case, some red and yellow) that everything that happens inside is every shade of grey imaginable, although the ones seen to be evil truly are.Frank Miller is one of my favorite artists.
His worlds are dark, sinister, colorful (how many people can get away with making blood white?) and his characters never quite what they seem.That Yellow Bastard takes you into a world of politics and cops, privilege and duty and where these worlds collide.
I hope anyone who reads any of the Sin City series will understand, this is Frank Miller's world the way he imagined it.
Só que agora com um ingrediente especial, sendo que a ideia de amor é multifacetada; ora amor-paixão; ora amor-fraterno.Mas, não obstante, para que este amor tenha êxito só há uma solução, a habitual em Sin City: "Só há uma maneira de o vencer.
209-211)Continuo a dizer que é assim a vida em Sin City, que não se escolhe: ou se morre assassinado ou vive-se assassinando.
Tudo se resume ao amor que se sente: ou se morre por ele, ou se vive por ele.
Sin City é assim: tudo é contraditório.
This volume features the colouring style that really adds something else to Miller's art.
However, that doesn't remove from the enormity of Sin City and still allows for a brief cross-over with Dwight near the beginning.Perhaps the most emotional of the series so far, the story is much more developed and the book is all the better for it.
The art is still incredible - sometimes I find myself fixated on a panel, wondering at the complex simplicity of such contrasting details.
So far, I've learned that Sin City is balanced on every angle to create something that is greater than the sum of its parts.
GREAT... GREAT NOVEL... GREAT...Gosh, this book was really good... The meaning that is encarved in this book is so beautiful, sweet and heart-warming and it is between the many layers of a grotesque, bloody, violent graphic novel which is a lovely twist... It makes satisfied when you reach the end of the book... AND THE END IS MIND-FUCKING-BLOWING... I think a decent human-being will cry at the end of this novel... This graphic novel has such a meaning to me...5 STARSSCORe: 98%
جلد چهارم از مجموعه کمیک "شهر گناه" از فرانک میلر.توی این کمیک، برای اولین بار در این چهار جلد، از عنصر رنگ استفاده شد و خیلی جالب هم استفاده شد. مشابه "دختر سرخ پوش" توی فیلم "فهرست شیندلر"، در اینجا هم از رنگ زرد برای نشون دادن شخصیت منفور استفاده شد.
The best in the series so far.
Onvan : Sin City, Vol. 4: That Yellow Bastard (Sin City, #4) - Nevisande : Frank Miller - Dar 240 Safhe - Saal e Chap : 1996
Definitely the hardest hitting and best of the Sin City books so far. Very good.
Hartigan's story is my favorite. It's also one of the saddest. All of his heroics end up tragic but it goes to show sometimes a hero must face tragedy in order to be the hero. The tie ins to the other stories are always a nice touch but it makes you see the timeline. The books go backwards in a sense so far with the exception of Dwight. Just a great series and more to go.
Great art, amazing characters, good story. Five Stars. Fair trade.
Wow! Just all kinds of wow! Excellent side trip through Sin City.
***3,5 stars***
4.5This series is pure gold. Consistency on par or better than the previous volume. That Yellow Bastard is no different, finished it inside 40 minutes. I was unable to put it down with the twist and turns it had as well as its fast paced well written story
