https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/107406.The_Great_Escape
Written by one of the men who assisted in what is known as the Great Escape, Paul Brickhill's book on the experiences of WWII POWs is tense and at times exhilarating. The detail of the escapes from German prison camps is full of descriptive information that should satisfy the curious. His determination to ferret out the stories of escapees after they left the camps would do any journalist proud. In The Great Escape you feel as if you've received about as full of an account of this famous event as you'll likely ever receive.
There is something about the movie The Great Escape.
More than the fact that as you watch the movie, you go, "Look, it's James Coburn.
The Great Escape is one of those that you can't help but watch.
It's like Lawrence of Arabia, except with Lawrence, I know why I watch.
I love that man in black.Where was I?The Great Escape, right.
Like the one about the mole tunnel, that was true.What is even more interesting is what some of the recaptured prisoners had to put up with afterwards.
A list of people in the begining, like a character list, would've been helpful.
Executive Summary: The rare case where I probably like the movie better than the book. It's a fascinating tale, but I found parts of it rather slow. 3.5 Stars.Audiobook: Robert Whitfield does a good job with this. Nonfiction can be a challenge, because if the subject matter isn't very good, an audio book can sound more like a lecture. Even during the parts of this book I found slow, I felt that Mr. Whitfield did a good job. Full Review I've been on a bit of a "classic" movie kick the last year o
Executive Summary: The rare case where I probably like the movie better than the book.
Even during the parts of this book I found slow, I felt that Mr. Whitfield did a good job.
The story in this book, about an elaborate plan to build not one but three tunnels to escape a German camp during World War Two sounds so incredible that it just screams movie plot.I found the early going with a lot of the background information rather dry and slow.
Either way I'm glad I read the story, but I'd probably recommend renting the movie instead.
This is nonfiction and truly a classic. It was a great read. It was about a prisoner of war camp during WWII. The prisoners all worked together on an elaborate escape scheme. They all knew that not everyone would be able to make the break, but they contributed to the effort the best they could. If this had been fiction, I think the whole experience would have been fleshed out a little more. But the simple fact that this is nonfiction, makes this even more awe inspiring.
And it is all true.On March 24, 1944, The Great Escape happened in the midst of World War II.
Bushell engineered the social network of the camp towards the one everlasting goal, the mass escape of hundreds of POWs. Teams were assembled, lookouts assigned, systems devised, and scams developed in order to obtain freedom.
The tunnels, codenamed Tom, Dick and Harry, were excavated during the year it took to plan The Great Escape.
And the deaths of the fifty will resonate with you.To The FiftyScooprichesP.S. The Great Escape was written by Paul Brickhill and is 265 pages in Hardcover.
Narrated by Simon Vance, under the stage name Robert Whitfield.From Wikipedia: "The Great Escape is an insider's account written by Australian Paul Brickhill of the 1944 mass escape from the German prisoner of war camp Stalag Luft III for British and Commonwealth airmen.
Four of the remaining twenty-three later tunnelled out of Sachsenhausen, but were recaptured and chained to the floor of their cells.[7] One of them, Major John Dodge, was released to secure a cease-fire.[8]The book is dedicated "to the fifty".In the aftermath of the escape, according to Brickhill, 5,000,000 Germans spent time looking for the prisoners, many of them full-time for weeks.[9] (hide spoiler)]
The movie based on this book is surprisingly accurate, I must say.
Sure it skews the timeline, simplifies the characters and gives the Americans the glory they, unfortunately, were denied, but still, it's quite good.Oh, the review of this book.
I'll admit the book is far from perfect and the prose is often perfunctory, but the pace is dead on and the story remains both reverent and faithful with minimal authorial intrusions.
This book I highly, highly recommend.
The book explains in great detail the painstaking efforts taken by the POWs to escape from Stalag Luft-III.
Hollywood changed the story to make it more flamboyant in the 60's film version of the book.
You almost wish all the POWs could have escaped.
The book also covers the efforts put by RAF to track down the Nazis who murdered the 50 captured POWs as a reprisal measure, something the movie did not cover.
The heroism of the POWs can be gauged by the fact that even when the escape failed and many were caught, they started digging another tunnel.
Great Story, unputdownable.
Seeing the movie over 20 times and realizing that many in the film were composites of the actual characters, there still some close similarities, especially to Roger Bartlett/Bushnell "Big X".
This book was written by a prisoner who was there.
With that the book truly portrays the true harsh realities of a prison camp life, that is not portrayed in the film.
From starvation, to cold, fear, etc.
What these men endured and were able to accomplish was a miracle in and of itself.
I bow my head to the fifty.
If you are interested in WWII, or history, read it.
Quarterbacked by Roger Bushell, a charismatic barrister with several previous escapes to his credit, “Project X” involved the construction of three separate tunnels, a meticulous operation to produce counterfeit documents, a mapmaking effort, a garment sweatshop and numerous other activities designed to not only escape the camp, but to improve the escapees’ chances of actually getting out of Nazi-controlled territory.The engineering feat involved in constructing these tunnels was impressive.
He managed to elicit enough details about the other prisoners to help readers understand the mindset underlying the operation.At its best, The Great Escape provides a firsthand glimpse into a fascinating chapter of WW II that’s captured imaginations for decades.
I've always liked the movie since I saw it when I was about ten I think but as soon as I picked this book up and started reading I knew I was going to like it much better and was not mistaken.
I still think the movie is great but this book tells the story of the prisoners at Stalag Luft III so much better as it is written by one of the few men who managed to truly get away and come home.
The author Paul Bricknell was an inmate Stalag Luft III and helped with the famous break-out by 76 RAF prisoners of war.As is well known of the 76 escapees 3 made it home to England, 23 were recaptured and infamously 50 were murdered, most shot at the sides of roads after capture and interrogation by the Gestapo on the orders of Adolf Hitler.Paul Bricknell gives a wonderfully detailed account of all the work that went into the escape, not only the tunnelling, but also the manufacture of clothes, papers, compasses, maps, and rations.Considering his personal involvement and the short span of time from the events Paul Bricknell is very even handed when describing the actions of the German's both in the prison camp and in the wider community.
The book ends with the post-war investigation of the murders and the fate of those responsible.An interesting and enjoyable read, not spoilt by having seen the film based upon it.
There were so many involved that until I was able to get further in the book it was difficult to keep people separated.
This was an organization so well put together that most of the people in the camp were part of it in one way or another and yet they could never be completely discovered.
The writing centered largely on the higher ups in the "X" organization, of course, and was largely similar to someone relating a story at dinner or in someone's living room.
Whether you have seen the movie or not, I highly recommend the book.

Incredible. The skills. The detail. The inventiveness. The doggedness. The secrecy. The patience. The thoroughness. The setbacks.
The movie adaptation of this book does a great job capturing the spirit, adventure and grim reality of what these men lived through. The book does provide more detail.
The book itself is written by one of the men (Paul Brickhill) who took part in the escape operations.
Tunnels were dug (one was discovered before the eventual escape).
But the prisoners were full of surprises and their ingenuity amazing (this story reminds me of the TV series "Hogan's Heroes").When the escape finally took place 76 got away.
More would have joined them but the tunnel was accidentally discovered by a guard, putting an end to further escape.
One night in 1945 the prisoners were marched away (Brickhill among them) as the Nazi's enemies closed in.
Most every man of my generation who grew up in the US knows the story, thanks to the excellent movie of the same title.
Compared to the book, which seems very truthful, the movie takes a few liberties; the book says nothing about a thrilling chase of an escaped prisoner on a motorcycle, for instance.
The book is dry compared to a well-written novel, but everything in the book actually happened.
The amazing ingenuity of the prisoners' escape preparations is the centerpiece of the story; the escape itself seems anticlimactic.
This book was really interesting.
There were times when it could have been written better, and I found it hard to figure out who was who at the beginning, but it got better later.
The drawings helped me understand well, although the way it was written gave me a good image in my head.
I have started watching the movie, and my mental image is pretty similar(although the book is way better).
I wish this was a series so I could read the next book.UPDATE:1)This book is great(this review doesn't really show it)2)The movie is great, although it is not extremely accurate to the book.
Wow!
What an incredible story.
This fills out the gaps in the movie.
The escape parts were great but there's not enough personal info.
It was hard to keep the actors straight.
There's not enough detail on most of them to make them exist as individuals.
PB was better on the mechanics of the escape itself.
They tunneled through almost 200 feet of sand, shored up the tunnel with scrap from the huts, survived cave-ins, hid tons of sand, and ran a professional forgery ring.
Jaw-dropping.
This is a must for anyone into the war, the movie or escapes.
This is the basis for the fabulously wonderful movie of the same name starring Steve McQueen.n The movie is an all-time family favorite and a true story so having seen it many times, I wasn't sure the book could bring enough additional information to keep me interested which, of course, was not a issue at all. Filled with numerous additional details, I truly enjoyed discovering more depth and details about the bravery and ingenuity of the characters that I have come to love through the years. Highly recommended for all history and WWII buffs. Well narrated by Robert Whitfield.
I've seen The Great Escape many times and it remains one of my favorite war movies of all time. This book, written by one of the POW's in Stalag Luft III who participated in the events, is the story on which the movie is based. It goes into more detail than the movie did about the ingenious ways that the prisoners were able to fool the guards and coordinate and prepare for the escape. It's a fun read and, if you are a fan of WWII stories, this one is highly recommended (even if you have already seen the movie.)
Read by Robert Whitfield.History of World War II escape attempts, mainly from one German prison camp for US and British Air Force officers. The amount of knowledge and expertize possess by this group of prisoners was stunning and probably a tribute to British schools.The book gives a more nuanced view of the Germans, showing kind, thoughtful men as well as the criminal class.
I've seen this movie multiple times and had no idea it was a book. The whole time you are reading this you just keep thinking "I can't believe they really did that!" The soldiers of World War II were incredibly brave and selfless and this was a great reminder of all they did for this country, both seen and unseen.
This is one of those works where the movie and book are equally fantastic. The level of ingenuity and team work is inspiring to me. The book was surprisingly funny as well. It is well worth buying for our family library.
This was a great story! I love WWII history, and this was a fun read. I also really enjoy the movie, and the book didn't disappoint. If you are looking for a European version of Unbreakable this is not it. If you are interested in a great historical POW story, this is a good one to read.
DNF. I just couldn't. It was so boring :(
✭✭½
Pero es que la fabricación de otros utensilios para que la fuga fuese un éxito, como documentación, ropa, brújulas, mapas, etc, con recursos limitados y de reciclaje, podría ser calificado como obra de arte.Los personajes que pasan por el libro también son extraordinarios.
El humor de los reclusos es mayúsculo a pesar de las circunstancias.El desenlace, totalmente inesperado (al menos en lo que a mí respecta, ya que no había leído nada referente a los hechos reales), es un duro y amargo final, que baja a la realidad de lo que fue la II Guerra Mundial, lo que hasta ese momento parecía una competición entre caballeros civilizados.Por cierto, la portada, que hace alusión a la película, no tiene nada que ver con el libro.
I had no idea how accurate (ish) the movie is to the events of the book. It's truly mind-boggling how many elaborate and fantastic things the prisoners were able to pull off. Brickhill makes Hogan's Heroes far more realistic than I imagined (full-scale forgery, tool-making, tailoring efforts going on). This book is both uplifting and heart-breaking and truly shows what a group of brilliant men are capable of when they are committed to a task.
