https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/433797.Defeat_Into_Victory
This book is about the Burma/India Theatre in the Second World War where the British arguably scored their first victory against the Japanese.
In fact he had high praises for the Indian units fighting for him and maintained the highest respect for the Gurkhas.The one question that kept coming back to me as I read the book was why this theatre receive so little attention, especially given that it resulted in a convincing victory for the the British.
I do not think that I can give enough superlatives to cover just how good this book is.
I cannot think of anything one would desire to have in a military memoire that is missing from this work.
If you need stirring inspiration or kick in the pants exhortation for struggling on through the greatest hardships, then you've got that.This should be required reading for anyone desiring to obtain command rank higher than Captain, and is beneficial reading for anyone who is either professional military or a politician, or who would wish to understand the same.
Defeat into Victory is his account of the retaking of Burma by Allied forces during the Second World War first published in 1956.
Slim was the commander of the British 14th Army that, in concert with American and Chinese forces, defeated the Imperial Japanese Army during the Burma Campaign.
Slim's theory is that politicians give guidelines for the campaign, and generals provide the training and backup so that the soldiers can get on with their business.
Slim is incredibly respectful of his own native soldiers, as well as the Japanese enemy.
Bar none--The best book on military leadership ever written.
In some respects the war fought in Burma was more like recent modern wars with low troop densities, long logistics tails and a massive reliance on air power.The other engaging bit about the book was that Slim shows you the development of the army from a road bound Western linear fighting force into an all arms, all round defence, jungle fighting machine.
He liaises with Vinegar Joe Stillwell and the Chinese Army too.Later, the British manage to shorten their lines of communication, build defences and work out how to deal with the Japanese.
Slim is a refreshingly blunt writer, always quick to praise superiors, subordinates, and peers while taking responsibility for his own mistakes.
Even when he clearly believes superiors or peers performed poorly, he is rather oblique, demonstrating his disapproval through a lack of praise.The details of the campaigns are not so salient as Slim's observations on leadership and the behavior of senior commanders.
This book would benefit greatly from an annotated and illustrated edition that allowed the reader to see the tactical situation more clearly as Slim describes it.Overall, a brilliant work of military history.
To many William Slim was possibly the finest British (and possibly Allied) General to serve during the Second World War. It is not readily known that the victor of Imphal was also a novelist between wars so this is one of the rarest of items, a memoir written by a general who can actually write!
As memoirs go Slim lays out clearly how the war with Japan went and what it to took to turn a beaten army into a winner.
Slim gives credit to all, and his portrait of Vinegar Joe Stilwell is essential.
I cannot praise this book highly enough.
Few other Allied generals of the war experienced such immense swings in fortune.The best parts of the book are how incredibly British Slim is, and a glimpse into the polyglot, colonial army of the British Empire, with Brits, Indians of hundreds of tribes and castes, and Africans all fighting alongside Americans, Chinese, and miscellaneous members of the commonwealth.
This is only fair; the Imperial Japanese Army were some of the worst war criminals this planet has ever seen, and Slim's thoughts about their command structure and penchant for atrocities are only too true.
An excellent book by a great leader of men.
Field Marshal William Slim was one of the most understated of the Allied commanders during the Second World War. Not surprisingly he was assigned command of the 14th Army which came to be called "The Forgotten Army." This book by the general himself speaks of the arduous campaigns the Allies faced in Burma and India, facing a foe they had never come across before, the Japanese whose commitment to their goals was legendary.
Slim's book also brings out his charm, his natural ability to get the best out of his men and his humility which is a trait one seldom associates with leading commanders of those times.
It is rare to read a memoir by a senior commander (or executive) and encounter the phrase "I was wrong." It appears frequently in this well written, thoughtful and remarkably modest account of WWII in Burma.The Burma front is little known, and often dismissed as a sideshow. Yet Slim simultaneously tied up tens of thousands of Japanese soldiers who might otherwise have been deployed to the main Pacific theater and virtually invented modern all-arms warfare. "Required reading" for all students of the art of leadership.
It is an interesting story overall, but this is a General's point of view, and most of the book discusses logistics, political problems, and strategic goals.
There is a sad comment that I had never heard, about how General MacArthur, in an action typical of his narcissism, refused to let the Brits move to save their prisoners of war until after he had ceremoniously accepted the Japanese surrender in Japan.
I would recommend this to you if you have a special interest in this particular story or theatre of war, but not otherwise.
This is probably the finest battlefield memoir. I began reading this book because one of my relatives had been in theater during World War II. Slim is critical of himself. Most memoirs are hit pieces against rivals and puff pieces regarding the author. This book is far from it. I highly recommend how an under-resourced Anglo-Colonial-American-Chinese force handled defeat, regrouped and rearmed and then successfully challenged the Japanese in Burma.
An excellent memoir from a humble man who gives equal detail to his triumphs as he does his defeats, coupled with a high level of respect for the men (of numerous nationalities) who fought and died under his command.
I ended this book at the 3-4/5th part.
The book had excellent insights on how to respond to failure.
The insights weren't offered to generalize, but I found myself reflecting a lot as I read this book on how I lead and how I reforge myself after setbacks.
I ended up stopping this book midway because I felt that the yield dropped off for me.
I initiated this book for personal reasons (as a study of how one person coped with failure) and I drew what I wanted to from this work.
In wonderfully clear British prose that is often understated just enough to make it bite, Field Marshal Slim delivers a detailed account of his operational approach to his campaign against the Japanese army in Burma, spelling out his own challenges as well as his intelligence picture of his adversary.
Field Marshal Slim was not only an excellent strategist.
He commanded a force composed of soldiers from the breadth of the British Empire's array of ethnic groups.
Slim shares many of his insights into command and leadership as he takes you through each challenge of his force.
I did not find the maps in the beginning of the chapters to be especially helpful and had to constantly refer to alternative maps to find referenced locations.
That being said, Slim summarizes the effects of actions at those locations and the logic for making those decisions.
At a certain point, knowing his logic for the establishment of logistics bases for the further project of air and landpower overrides the necessity of knowing the exact location of a particular brigade at a point in the battle.
This classic military history is Slim's personal account of the campaign uring WW2 in Burma - the so called forgotten army.
He makes some very insightful observations about leadership, logistics and the overwhelming resilience and resourceflness of the soldier - also highlighting how few of his troops were actually British as opposed to colonial.It was slightly strang trying to follow the tactics of an Army - dealing constantly in Brigades, Divisions and Corps.
Indeed there are only very few references to the actions of the individual battalions.
This was a very detailed and informative book about the Burma campaign, and how the British Empire, American, and Chinese forces learned to defeat the Japanese with a very slender supply line.
British General Field Marshall Slim commanded the Burma WW2 campaign. The campaign began in February 1942 and ended in September 1945. Many military historians believe that the lessons learned in the Burma jungles defined the principles of modern warfare for the "nuclear age." General Slim was an outstanding commander who believed that war is an art form anchored in principles of strategy, cross cultural management, moral courage, and alignment to the monsoon forces of nature. Slim is an excellent and very candid writer. His book was taught for many years at Fort Leavenworth's Army Command and General Staff College.
Slim's account of the war in Burma; starts with the defeat of Burcorps, the setbacks in the Arakan, and then the successful defence in the joint battles of Imphal and Kohima, the victories of Mandalay and Meiktila and the final reconquest of Burma. In the interwar period Slim successfully wrote fiction under the name of Anthony Mills and his style is easy and accomplished. Slim's account of his meeting with Aung San, father of Aung San Suu Kyi resonates; Slim describes him as a patriot who wanted indepenedence and the best for his country.
If you read any book about WW2 (and I've read lots), this is one book you should read.I find it inspirational for life in general, because it has so many lessons in it about how to turn around a bad situation and ultimately triumph. Its a very well written story by the man in charge of the English army that was at first completely annihilated by the Japanese, and how he eventually learned how to beat them, through many very hard costly lessons, and thus turned the tables over four long years of very severe fighting.

Excellent recounting of the war in Burma (now Myanmar) by a leading general on the ground. Perhaps the most self effacing book written by a war leader I have read, conveying both successes in strategy and tactics and failures along the way. Having visited Mayanmar and travelled on the Irrawaddy river and visited a number of places cited in the book I thoroughly enjoyed it. And yet, very hard to see the peaceful Buddhist population today in the context of war, but that's what war brings.
This is an excellent book, written by a General who is considered by many to be the finest British field commander of WWII. General Slim is self effacing and honest in his description of a often overlooked campaign. I highly recommend this book to anyone interested in World War II, leadership, and an amazing story of victory over an enemy who gave no quarter on a terrain that was unforgiving.
An easy read that is instructive and enjoyable. Anytime a General starts a sentence with "My first mistake was..." it's worth reading. Good book to help understand the difficulties of coalition, jungle, joint, and combined arms operations or issues of morale and discipline in an Army. Also very instructive in the execution of mission command. I wish I had read it earlier.
Best military history I've read in many years. Slim is honest, forthright, and thoughtful. He doesn't shy from controversy, such as his dismissal of most "elite" units. My one quibble is that he downplays his command disagreements in the Arakan offensive. There are lessons here for leaders of all kinds, from the language he uses in discussing subordinates to his clear and balanced orders.
Very readable autobiography in which Gen. Slim details the British being chased out of Burma by the Japanese Army in 1942, and the reconquest in 1944-45. Refreshing in how honest Slim was in admitting his mistakes and the consequences of the decisions he made, both good and bad. One of the least self-serving autobiographies I have read.
A magnificent account of war, leadership, and one of the most remarkable (and sadly overlooked) fighting formations in history. Slim's memoir is readable and his famed humility emanates from each page. A must read for military historians and anyone studying leadership.
Great book on the thoughts of a military commander deeply involved in operational art. Amazing that despite so many setbacks he was able to continue to promote and eventually overcome all f his early setbacks.
Fantastic book on leadership.
