https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/8235178-across-the-universe
3.5When I found ACROSS THE UNIVERSE at the library, I spent several minutes trying to decipher what the cover was. I finally decided that the cover featured space fish kissing before I realized that it was actually a girl and a boy trying to kiss, Spider-Man style.Before you laugh, look:Lip-Locked FishVERSUSCoverTold you.
My answer to that?There's always going to be a small fraction of reviewers who don't connect with a book and can't finish it, but to dismiss all DNF reviews, I think, is problematic.
Being able to hook a reader within the first couple of pages is an essential skill of any artisan storyteller and if you're having a lot of DNF reviews or simply bad reviews then they probably contain a goldmine in advice to help improve your range of skills.I credit Revis with imagination and thoughtful plot.
Like most YA, after the first 100 pages, you know you're reading a novel written for teens.
The RomanceI have no idea why Elder liked Amy. Oh, I know he thought she was attractive.
Instead, he accepts her and falls in love with her for no reason except for the fact that she is different.
As for Amy, I can understand why she likes Elder.
Amy angst about being in cryosleep for the first 90 pages of Across the Universe.
6. The PacingBy the time Elder and Amy finally meet, we're one third through the book.
I think I can divide my issues with the book into four categories: Flat Characters, Obvious Plot Twists, Science!Fail, and Bad Storytelling.
Several times I actually thought we had solved a mystery, only to have the characters puzzle over it a couple chapters later, and me say "What, you didn't get that, really?" My entire experience reading the book went like this: Hey, they sure talk about how the other Elder is dead a lot, I bet (view spoiler)[ he's not really dead!
It takes away something from the story if I have to question everyone's credibility.As characters, Amy and Elder sometimes seemed more like pawns going through the motions than anything else.
. .' when all the while I was thinking, "You can't trust a damn thing Eldest says!" The only other character I liked was Harley, the is-he-crazy-or-is-he-not artist, whom I actually believed was a better match for Amy than Elder.
Instead, I was left with a read where I liked some parts and disliked others.
The movie Passengers—with the God-like Chris Pratt—made me really want to read this book.I actually couldn’t finish the movie, because I thought it was too slow and the romance was just too expected, but the book entertained me quite a bit.The ship itself—Godspeed—is pretty curious.
The romance lacks originality and passion, but fortunately it’s not inundating the plot.Many plot twists are hidden inside chapters, especially the last ones.
They made me want to immediately pick the second book up.
It’s going to be plot twist after plot twist.
The sequel was fine, but this first book was a rough start and was a mostly negative experience for me.Original 2/6/17 -I wrote some harsh things about this book on Twitter and in earlier reading updates about how it was offensive, so I want to address that.
A terrible society is set up that you are supposed to hate and want to be overthrown.I never know what people consider to be spoilers so I'm hiding some of the following points.
Really enjoyed this! I loved all of the twists and surprises! The characters were just okay though... This could have been a 5 star book, I think, if I'd loved them more! I think Harley was my favorite :'( I'm excited to read on and see where this story goes!
Someone is reviving the frozen people in their containers with the intention of letting them drown.I really liked this whole aspect of it, and I've never been a space story fan.
It should have been shown like this:But instead it was marketed as a romance story, which it just wasn't.
But, let's face it, very few guys are going to be interested in reading this book just by looking at the cover (yeah, I know, guys are silly and what's not to love about pink sparkles?).
This is much more sci-fi or mystery than it is romance.
This book doesn't make space cool; it makes it ridiculous.Let me break it down, now.-Huge society lives in and operates spaceship, with cryogenically frozen peeps in tow, destined to start a colony on a new planet.-Everyone awake on the ship is dark-olive skinned with brown hair and brown eyes.-The society doesn't have any sort of religion or superstitious beliefs.-Their appearance seems to be of Asian decent, but they speak and act distinctly American.-They are supposedly all descendants from the original earth-based crew of many different ethnicities.Even with the backstory we get later on in the book, I just don't see a set of circumstances unfolding logically that would follow these lines, leading to that sort of society, especially since no useful background information is given as to how or why it might have happened.
El libro está escrito desde los puntos de vista de Amy y de Elder, lo cual aunque me gusta este es una excepción porque en las primeras páginas Amy está congelada y no tiene nada importante que decir, salvo recordar a su exnovio Jason.
No pude conectar con ningunos de los personajes, que son muy planos y se sabe poco de ellos.Es un libro escrito para YA, así que es una lectura ligera.
Me fascinan los libros de distopias y aunque esperaba más de este, disfruté la lectura.
What if I read the next book in the series?
The whole time she is either moping or screaming, nothing in between and when she’s moping all she can think about is all the times she missed out with her oh so wonderful boyfriend she left behind (I forgot his name already) and how she misses Daddy.
Ever.I love space, the space program, and everything else so I've watched a lot of documentaries and have taken classes in astronomy and astrobiology so...I’m pretty sure there’s a lot of science fail in this book but the one thing I remember is how the ship’s engines were failing so they were slowing down.
Estoy impresionada con esta historia, me parece sumamente original, las emociones y el peligro son protagonistas. El libro se pone mejor a cada página, descubrimos las mil mentiras con las que funciona "Fortuna" y nos enamoramos de los protagonistas.Me ha encantado, espero leer pronto el segundo libro. Reseña Completa: http://bastvilard.blogspot.com/2015/0...
There will probably be spoilers in this review, but I'll indicate where I'm about to reveal something.Across the Universe is a really cool story about a girl named Amy who is frozen in time for 250 years aboard the space ship Godspeed.
She struggles to adapt with the strange life on the space ship, while she attempts to solve the mystery and unravel the lies surrounding it.One thing I really liked about the book was the changes in POV from Amy to Elder.
Often times when I'm reading YA novels, I'm constantly wondering, "What the hell is he *really* thinking?" I also really liked Amy. She was a strong female character.
First of all: YAY I FINALLY FINISHED A BOOK FOR THE FIRST TIME IN LIKE OVER A WEEK WOOOO. Now on to the actual(ish) review! I AM SO MAD AT MYSELF FOR WAITING SO LONG TO READ THIS. I've had it on my shelf for years and finally decided to pick it up on a whim and WOW. I loved it SO MUCH. I want the next ones already bc I am dying to know how it ends!!
A highly underrated book in my opinion. A great mix of science-fiction, dystopia and murder mystery that keeps you guessing until the very last page. Also a great trilogy as a whole! Definitely recommend this.
4.5*More thoughts later, now I must sleep
Since an obscure past event referred to as "The Plague" severed all connections to Sol-Earth and decimated the breathing population, the on-board democracy has been replaced by a the firm rule of a string of single and almighty rulers, who control access to the Earth's (tampered with) and the ship's (partly hazy) history, the use of cameras, the knowledge about what sleeps in the storage chambers, and who exchanged random reproduction for a system of one mating season per generation.
Snyder, which also takes place in a small, confined and heavily controlled world/eco-system, I have to say I prefer "Inside Out".
Inside Out is so unique and compelling that Across the Universe felt flat, weary, and (frankly, in some parts) disturbing in comparison.(As an aside, I highly recommend Inside Out for sci-fi lite, dystopian fans.
The novel has such a promising premise--I love the idea of blurring the genres into a this sci-fi mystery romance in a dystopian world--and I guess I was just expecting too much.
DOWN.Across the Universe poses some intriguing questions regarding survival, leadership, free will, individual thought, and differences in society, and I hope these ideas will be explored in even greater depth in the sequel, as some of the answers at the end felt too simplistic.
Amy ends up getting woken up early and Elder does everything he can to try to make her more comfortable.
Of course the leader of the ship right now, Elder does not like her at all.
It's basically where everyone starts mating to reproduce to keep the ships population going on.
I understand they need to keep humans on the ship but I wanted people to fall in love!
I liked getting to know them all.No spoilers in this review because I don't want to spoil it for anyone so just read the book to find out what happens!
I unexpectedly LOVED this one, up until the last eight pages, which were bullshit.(Also the whole nuclear thing annoyed me because that's just not how spacecraft engines work, but I was enjoying the story so much that the science fails washed over me.)Review to come. Damn those eight pages.
"A love out of time.
A spaceship built of secrets and murder." So..
# First - the cover is absolutely gorgeous (at least I love it) and this is what made me want to read this book..
And so the myth saying that a book with a great cover is always horrible is busted (just) for the moment ;))# Second, the cover and the beginning of the quote from above are just a bit wrong - this is not really a love story (not so far), we have some romance in it but it is a small part of this book compared to ever
I don't know, it just gave me the impression that the author really needed to finish the book but wanted to tell us the full story in those few pages and it's a shame because in a way this is the part I liked the most.
I'm not saying more, but I guess that in next book we will find out more.Also, there are still questions that need to be answered - for example I want to know what did Eldest tell Harley near the end.
Lessons learned :Never trust history.Never trust doctors.Never trust scientists.Never trust technology.Never trust blanket medication.Overall my experience with this book was like meeting and falling in love, being excited and happy, then slowly finding out that he's not perfect. He drinks out of the milk carton, he ignores you in favour of sports events and when you finally get his clothes off he's as smooth as a Ken doll but insists he can still have children. Then finding out he's right he c
There is a lesson in this: if it reads like unintelligent drivel some readers may give up on your work before you make the big reveal that attempts to explain the drivel.Amy's character is well-drawn and her memories and emotions are brilliantly portrayed.
Ideas have been stolen from movies like Serenity (Phydus is Pax) and the less popular Demolition Man (being conscious in cryo) which makes me wonder how much of this book is original.
~ Incest and MVP problem solved but not in a way I completely accept although I'm feeling very wary of medicine and scientists right now.~ (view spoiler)[They’ve been travelling for more than 300 years.
I'm just going to come right out and say it: This book was BRILLIANT and I absolutely LOVED every moment of it.
I devoured it all through the night and have been thinking about it ever since (3 weeks ago).Where to begin with my (rave-on) review?It's epic, dystopian, has an impossible romance, mystery, creativity and lots of heart and soul.
I can only imagine the immense thought and creativity involved in producing such a book.
The themes in this book would be brilliantly explored in class discussion.
A first class book from a talented new author.
Beth Revis has some of the best sci-fi ideas I have read about, and even when I’d want her to do an adult book, her young adult light development is always refreshing and smart without being over plotted or over explained.
Sabe que hay cosas que no puede explicar con ciencia así que las deja como solo ideas sueltas sci-fi que ayudan a su trama.
Aclarando que todo esta a un nivel YA, por lo tanto aunque se toquen temas como la tiranía, el control biológico o incluso algo sobre sexualidad bastante fuerte, no se siente demasiado oscuro o denso.

I've never read a murder mystery that took place on a spaceship, so count me in.Sadly, I cannot believe that Across the Universe decided to treat me like a moron, by dropping some incredibly obvious hints throughout the story.
Maybe if that aforementioned Paradise Lost-reading character had just been reading it in the background, rather than going on about how Hell is frozen over, or Eldest only mentioned his love for tyranny only a few times, it would have worked a lot more to the book's advantage.
Όταν το ξεκίνησα, η αλήθεια είναι πως δεν περίμενα να μου αρέσει τόσο!!Η Έιμυ και οι γονείς της άφησαν τη ζωή τους στη Γη για να μετοικίσουν σε έναν νέο πλανήτη.
Εξαπάτηση, ψέματα και άνθρωποι που δεν μπορείς να εμπιστευτείς!Διαβάζεται πολύ πολύ εύκολα, έχει πολύ αγωνία και σε αυτό βοηθάει πολύ και η εναλλασσόμενη αφήγηση μεταξύ της Έιμυ και του Πρεσβύτερου.Δεν περίμενα να μου αρέσει τόσο, αλλά ήταν πολύ καλό!!Μείον ένα αστεράκι γιατί κάποια πράγματα ήταν λίιιγο προβλέψιμα και για κάποια ελάχιστα κλισέ τα οποία δεν με ενόχλησαν ακριβώς αλλά θα μπορούσαν και να μην υπάρχουν.....Τέλος θα ήθελα να σημειώσω ότι το εξώφυλλο είναι πολύ παραπλανητικό!!!
I'm somewhat surprised.I did enjoy the book and it's worth reading.If you LOVE sci-fi, you should definitely pick up this book.Amy's parents have been chosen to be a part of the secretive space mission to a whole new planet, Centauri-Earth.
Amy and her parents have been frozen and placed in a spaceship to be awaken in 300 years However she is reanimated and wakes up earlier than planned in a cold-metallic room with 50 more years to go.
While Eldest thinks keeping her is a total danger as the first cause of discord is difference.(view spoiler)[There's no denying that this book is full of surprise and interesting.
Utterly captivating.It is unique with it’s mix of part space travel, part thriller and part romance.
And I can tell you now if somebody came up to me and asked if I would liked to get frozen and travel in space, even it included the gorgeous Elder (who I will get to in a minute), I would tell them NO and then run and hide.
Well let just say part of the story wraps up nicely and well the other part leaves you wanting more.
And the romance is beautiful with lines like this:“I want to take her into my arms and hold her tight.
