https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2068.Darwin_s_Dangerous_Idea
I think Dennett doesn’t mean for this to be an introduction to the topic, maybe a road map, where he points out some interesting spots along the way, and gives you ample opportunities to read and learn more for yourself in his 35 page bibliography, but if you are half-ignorant, like me, then you are going to be taking a lot of what he says at face value, for the time being at least.
It's simply too long and stuffy for its own good; and worse, for a 600-page monolith, it insists on simplifying things to "God did it by miracle" or "natural selection did it mindlessly." This is a typical A/B argument that a lot of popular scientists and religious types subscribe to because they only have to insult one opponent to win, and no other school of thought is given credibility.
From his crane and sky hook analogies, to all his snide remarks about religion, to his adopting Darwin's means for arguments about physics and psychology (things Darwinians might enjoy, but that Darwin himself would have bawked at), his conclusions are neither philosophically sound nor scientifically useful.
Particularly useful was the concept of a library with every volume ever written, AND every variation on those volumes.
This library contains every version of that book ever written, edited or published.
Well, the library also contains a version of the book that begins, "Call me Jshmael." There are millions of versions of Moby Dick with subtle variations, some which have little or no effect on the readability; others are a complete mess that no one would or could read.
Dennett, Breaking the Spell"Is this Tree of Life* a God one could worship?
Pray to?
Probably not.
The Tree of Life is neither perfect nor infinite in space or time, but it is actual, and if it is not Anselm's "Being greater than which nothing can be conceived," it is surely a being that is greater than anything any of us will ever conceive of in detail worthy of its detail.
I could not pray to it, but I can stand in affirmation of its magnificence.
This world is sacred."— Daniel C.
When I do find one I'll probably make it known somehow.
The second read was as enjoyable but more satisfying than the first, but rather than carrying a ladder, I pulled out a highlighter.I've always been impressed with Charles Darwin and believe that his thoughts on evolution are as significant to the advance of knowledge as the discovery of how to make fire was to the advance of civilization.For the roughly 6 million years since our branch of the tree of life separated from the ancestors we have in common with chimps and bonobos, humanity has lived in ignorance of the reality of how the world around us has come to be.Because of the unbearable anxiety that went with ignorance, it was mandatory that something be thought up to explain things and religions fit the bill.
Philosopher Dan Dennett argues that the theory of natural selection is a 'universal acid', burning through our basic ideas about science and beyond, leaving a completely changed intellectual landscape.
Dennett shows that evolution needs 'no skyhooks' - no supernatural powers - and instead produced us and our artifacts and ideas using 'cranes', artefacts and strategies that accelerate development (the image derives from the fact that a small crane can be used to erect a larger one).
He develops the idea of 'memes' as mental analogues of genes; symbiotes evolved to live in minds, making persons of the humans they infest and hyper-accelerating life's trajectory through design-space.
This book is purely about Darwin's theory of natural selection.
IT'S NOT A BIOLOGY TEXT.
It's not really about biology at all, but the larger, widely-applicable algorithmic process that happened to push forth original life.
It covers a massive span of topics, most rather philosophical, including reactions to Darwinian thought (from Neo-Darwinist scientists, and others), issues in reductionism, possibility, 'evolutions' of meaning, 'evolutions' of morality, and a lot more.
It's pretty unbelievable how far these ideas go, and this book expands beyond any one sphere of academia.
Please, don't get all cocky on me.
Even the Evolutionary Biologists need to read this one.
This survey was mostly stuff I'd heard before, however, because Dawkins.Then Dennett started popping caps in metaphorical asses.
He debunked Penrose's theory of consciousness arising from micro-tubules.He also criticizes sociobiology for comically and habitually underestimating human intelligence in the face of forced moves (situations with an obvious, best solution).Dennett uses two particularly clever thought experiments in this book.
I picked up this book because I had always heard of Daniel Dennett, as he is one of the infamous "Four Horsemen of Atheism" (also including Richard Dawkins, Sam Harris, and Christopher Hitchins).
I wanted to read some of his work, saw this book, and thought the title provocative.
However, the more I read, the more of a chore it became just to pick up the book.
So, with heavy heart, much reluctance, and a huge migraine, I gave up at about Chapter Six. Maybe if I get more well versed in this subject by a writer that is better able to simplify it, I'll re-approach this book...
This book felt like brain yoga. It was such a delight to follow the logic-based arguments Dennett constructs and the analogies he uses and the way he picks apart other people's bad arguments. Darwin's dangerous idea, he says, is like a universal acid that corrodes all our faiths and institutions. In fighting this, we have mischaracterized it, feared it, or run away from it. Dennett confronts it head on and explains what that means for us and for our culture. It's not overly scientific. It's well-reasoned, well-written, and a delight to read.
Interesting beginning, but the philosophizing and repetitiveness takes over. Half of it is refuting other peoples' writings. If you're not already familiar with important philosophical concepts and terminology, and you haven't read Stephen Jay Gould before, I can't really recommend this book. I will say that the idea of skyhooks and cranes is really fantastic, though.
It is the first and only book I've encountered that takes evolution as a worldview and not just a biological explanation of speciation.I drew far too many wonderful ideas and frameworks from this book to write a review essay-style, so I'll enumerate the most salient ideas by topic.HISTORY OF THE IDEA-Natural selection may have been the first strong step toward viewing the world by processes and not things.-Humans ignore gathering pools of evidence until an explanation of the mechanism is proposed.
In this book Dennett makes an authoritative case against the necessity of what he calls "skyhooks" in order to explain life and meaning.
Dennett's able to show that evolutionary theory can dissolve just about any argument in favor of skyhooks into plain, old-fashioned incrementalism.The vast majority of the book is devoted to this topic; considerably fewer pages are allocated to describing how morality and meaning can be generated by incrementalism, and I kept feeling there was a lot of hand waving going on in the final chapters.
There was no Theory of Meaning clearly enunciated, but in Dennett's defense he wasn't trying to build one.
As a scientist, or at least a scientifically disposed person, I generally view these concepts as intractable, or entirely relativistic (kind of the same thing in my mind), but Dennett argues that we need to stop thinking about them in essentialist terms (e.g. meaning is meaning: pseudo-meaning is meaningless), because the alternatives all require supernatural explanations that are themselves unsatisfactory (if God gave us free will, where did she get it from?).To quote,Through the microscope of molecular biology, we get to witness the birth of agency, in the first macromolecules that have enough complexity to "do things." This is not a florid agency—echt intentional action, with the representation of reasons, deliberation, reflection, and conscious decision—but it is the only possible ground from which the seeds of intentional action could grow.
The first section is titled “Starting in the Middle” in which Dennett discusses where the theory of evolution is today, where it started (including pre-Darwin theories of evolution), and how it has reached its current state.
The second section is “Darwinian Thinking in Biology” talks about recent biological theories which claim to move beyond Darwinian Theory and Dennett attempts to bring them all back to either Darwin or the supernatural or “cranes or skyhooks” using Dennett’s terms.
While there are a couple of areas that I would rather Dennett had taken a different approach, those are far outweighed by the strengths of Dennett’s writing, and philosophical approach to the discussion of the topic.
This should not be anyone's first book about evolution, natural selection or Charles Darwin.
Dennett, and this book in particular, was referenced in so many other books I'd read on evolution that I felt I needed to read one of his, but was somewhat surprised to find myself in something so abstract that I occasionally had trouble following him.
If you're looking for a book about the nuts and bolts of evolution and natural selection this is not it.
Thus my rating reflects my preference for less philosophical, more practical, hard science approaches to the subject of evolution, and not the quality of Dennett's writing or his arguments.
A slog. Dennet's prose is seldom clear, too much time spent on arguing about words. Most of Dennet's digressions (70% of the book) seem designed to signal the author's breadth of learning rather than to promote understanding.
Since biology is well on its way to explaining mind and language, the prospects for AI are bright."The book's research is a bit dated, but I actually thought that helped a little bit.
In particular, we can see now that many of Dennett's scientific and philosophical adversaries (Gould, Chomsky, Fodor, Putnam, E.O. Wilson) were, in fact, on the wrong (or at least losing) side of the debate concerning the potential reach of evolutionary biology into questions of meaning, mind, language, and culture.
It builds on some of the ideas in Richard Dawkins’ The Selfish Gene, including the idea of memes as selfish replicators on the same pattern as genes.Dennet’s idea seems to be to counter challenges to the idea that the variety of life on earth could have been created entirely by natural selection acting on naturally occurring processes.
He proposes that it is the memes that have created the mind (as opposed to the brain) rather than the other way around.He also discusses quite a bit the idea of evolution as primarily an engineering problem (for both the genes and the memes) using examples from attempts at creating artificial intelligence among other things.
I claim to be no scientist or genius, rather a curious thinker, but this book has by far been the most intellectually taxing yet satisfying book I've read.The author beautifully uses various streams of science - from biology to critical reasoning to AI to physics and chemistry - and adds philosophy with brilliant examples and analogies and metaphors, to defend, educate and explain Darwin's dangerous idea - Evolution.If you're a religious person trying to understand evolution, this isn't the right starting book for you.
As Dennett says, the implications of the Darwinian Revolution have not yet been realized by humankind, even though everyone - Darwinians and anti-Darwinians alike - understands that Darwin's idea hits the core of what we care about.
Dennett aims to show how Darwin's theory, applied broadly and properly, can inform just about every aspect of human thought.
Dennett explains how Darwinian logic applies to human nature, culture, morality, economics, and more.
But what is not so great is that Dennett forces you to wade through endless tangents, obscure passages, and gratuitous thought experiments to follow him.
If you want to read every Darwin-related thought that has ever crossed Dennett's mind, this is the book for you.
The book itself is written in a boring and dry way.
520 pages long, 300 pages too long as he just repeats the same points again and again and uses way too much space to explain simple things.
While I do agree with Dennett on most points he doesn't understand human behavior fully in 1995.
We have discovered much, much more inherited behavior and while Dennett does go against the sky hooks in this book he would be even more critical of blank slate and religious explanations of the brain today.
Read Moral Animal by Robert Wright instead and a few books on evolution.
The material ranges far and wide, from human consciousness, morality, the evolution of theories of evolution, consciousness and morality.
The meat of the book is devastating criticism of attempts by philosophers and scientists to find attributes that are beyond evolutionary analysis.
In particular, he does a thorough job of exposing the shortcomings of the theories Stephen Jay Gould, Noam Chomsky, and Roger Penrose, all of whom have attempted to put the human mind beyond the reach of science.This book is a MUST read for believers in evolution.
It shows how the painful philosophical inversion can and must bet taken all the way down, to the brain, morality, and humanity.
I have read a lot of smart books. This is the smartest.
I have been giving you the benefit of the assumption that you would not waste your own time or mine by playing with the net down.""The temptation, when we think about phenotypic variation, is to adopt a sort of Identikit tactic of assuming that all the minor variations we can imagine on the themes we find in actuality are truly available.
Economists are often political simply because they will hide the (dis)favoring of a group by calibrating utility to the society, or to specific individuals in isolation.By NOT addressing his heady position to this basic difference, by explaining the mechanisms of his attempt at a supervenience view of adaptation, Dennett dismisses the veracity of other views by distorting them into failed forms of supervenience.The ideologue that Dennett wishes to superimpose is that of a consistency from the point of genetics.What makes this position obviously an ideologue is the arbitrariness of Dennett's stopgap.
And finally, a good adaptationist should always watch out for the QWERTY phenomenon, where certain features may just be the result of historical happenstances (the dominance of the non-optimal QWERTY keyboard for example).3) Cultural evolution.
Marriage may be damn hard—and most people do actually fail at it—but it is not impossible because we’re equipped with the brain-meme-culture power to mold this amorphous thing called “human nature.”4) Biological possibility and evolutionary path.
In the same way, we can’t conclude from the ubiquity of certain features across human cultures that they are human universals.7) Finally, good and bad reductionism.
This book stands out as a particularly well-written overview of Darwinian theory, which includes a rather long but delightful discussion of its philosophical implications.
Darwin's Dangerous Idea builds upon the fact that the process of evolution is an algorithmic one, a mechanism that dismisses esoteric explanations for specific realizations of design.
Readers should benefit from being already acquainted with some ideas of evolutionary theory, mostly the works of Richard Dawkins, Stephen Jay Gould, John Maynard Smith and E.
The breadth of the author's erudition is mind-boggling and his conclusions are such that my own worldview is being reshaped by the elegance, simplicity and power of Darwin's idea.
Contents:(view spoiler)[Dennett DC (1995) (27:04) Darwin's Dangerous Idea - Evolution and the Meanings of LifePrefacePart I: Starting in the Middle01.
Did Darwin Explain the Origin of Species?02.4.
Natural Selection as an Algorithmic Process02.5.
Possibility Naturalized06.
Threads of Actuality in Design Space06.1.
Forced Moves in the Game of Design06.3.
The Unity of Design SpacePart II: Darwinian Thinking in Biology07.
Biology Is Engineering08.1.
Cui Bono?Part III: Mind, Meaning, Mathematics, and Morality12.
Losing Our Minds to Darwin13.1.
The Evolution of Meanings14.1.
On the Origin of Morality16.1.
Can Ethics Be Naturalized?17.2.
Universal Acid: Handle with CareAppendix: Tell Me WhyBibliographyIndex (hide spoiler)]
Really liked the first half of the book, but the second half not so much. Do I get bored with books? Or do a lot of writers run out of steam before they're done?
