https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/4958536-tolerance
Calvin's example is only a reminder how much of religion is only a cover for the exercise of tyrannical power by old men.But in the second half of the book, van Loon also discusses the many scholars, thinkers and reformers who have sought to make their societies more tolerant -- including Erasmus, Rabelais, the unfortunate Giordano Bruno, Spinoza, Frederick the Great of Prussia, Voltaire.
How the iconoclastic idealism of the French Revolution turned so quickly to intolerance also comes in for lengthy study.In the end, van Loon ends on a cautionary note, that we should not exult that out times are somehow more progressive and enlightened than those earlier eras of ignorance and superstitions.
Can't believe it is still so relevant today
Van Loon's compassion was basically not tolerated by the world's bumps and restlessness. There are such books that everyone knows how clear the truth is when reading them, however, when they do something, they have to bite the bullet and try to tear the reality down.
encyclopedic
A fascinating search for some tolerance somewhere in the history of civilization. Almost none is found. Very well written and easy to read. The author writes in a narrative style which makes this rather difficult subject quite comprehensible. I borrowed this book from the library. When I finished it, by wife began reading it. She, too, finds it quite fascinating and well written. If you are confused as to why mankind can't ever seem to get along, read this book and you'll see that the problem is not a new one. It still needs to be solved.
Fascinating book. The Chinese version I found in the library over the summer was really horrible, so I had to drop it down mid-way. I will hopefully find a English copy and finish reading it soon.Favorite quote:“大凡为宽容而战的人，不论彼此有什么不同，都有一点是一致的：他们的信仰总是伴随着怀疑；他们可以诚实地相信自己正确，却又从不能使自己的怀疑转化为坚固绝对的信念。”
a wonderful and very hard to find book
A nice book on the history of intolerance in the western world, and unfortunately its theme is still relevant today.
