https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/77425.Desolation_Island
Here's Goodreads' sexy summary for this book:Commissioned to rescue Governor Bligh of Bounty fame, Captain Jack Aubrey and his friend and surgeon Stephen Maturin sail the Leopard to Australia with a hold full of convicts.
Before setting off Aubrey meets with the real life Peter Heywood, who as a young man was aboard the Bounty at the time of the mutiny and who was later captured and sentenced to death.
History is all fine and good you're probably saying, but what about this beautiful and dangerous spy?
I've said the same thing of John le Carré, but I really do feel that when a lot of the bones and books of our modern classics are dead, bleached, buried and forgotten, this series will be still published, read and loved.
I say that after ONLY reading 1/4 of the series.
I can't imagine that O'Brian can sustain this level of resonance, but I have said that before when I first heard Bach's Violin Concertos.
After four books in the company of Captain Jack Aubrey and Doctor Stephen Maturin I have come to expect the best entertainment, the best historical and maritime instructions from each of their new voyages.
I am glad to return now to a rekindling of the friendship between the two protagonists, to a more focused plot with only one ship under Aubrey's command, and to more actual sailing of the high seas.Like many of the previous novels, the first chapters take place onshore in England, where Jack is enjoying (most of the time) the company of his expanding family (twin girls and a small boy) and the affluence brought by prize money.
Captain Aubrey is to take the Leopard, a two deck ship of fifty guns to Botany Bay to come to the aid of William Bligh (yes that William Bligh of the Bounty) who is now Governor of New South Wales and seems to have yet another mutiny on his hands.
On route, they are chased by the Waakzaamheid, a Dutch ship of the line (three decks of 74 guns) into the far southern ocean where a building storm pushes waves sixty, eighty, one hundred feet high.
Captain Aubrey orders the ship to be lightened in an attempt to escape.
Though a second reading is less uncomfortable than the first (the edge of the seat is so sharp, and bad for circulation!) this is still an exciting, dare I say epic installment of the adventures of Aubrey and Maturin.
It should not be missed.More than that, I might also say that it represents a crisis in Maturin's affairs: the point where it must be shown if hatred of Napoleon and love of the natural world are strong enough to maintain a man's interest in life when he has a broken heart.A crucial installment in the series by any accounting.
What isn't to like here?First, a few corrections to the slightly misleading synopsis: although we spend a lot of time discussing Admiral Bligh in the opening chapters, he's basically forgotten as soon as we get on the ship, and we never actually get to meet him; the sexy lady spy doesn't do anything except have a boring affair with a crewman and write some letters (which are promptly intercepted and decoded by Maturin with no effort, because Maturin is awesome); and the disease is syphilis.
For me, Desolation Island is where Aubrey/Maturin settle into a comfortable familiarity with their readers, and the rhythm of these books, their own fine and sonorous strings, takes their ultimate shape.There is confidence in Patrick O'Brian's writing at this point, and one no longer has any sense that he is worried about whether or not the next book will happen, nor any fear over where his Captain and his Doctor are going to take him.
In fact, the only two parts of the story that stayed in my memory were the chase with the Dutch 74 Gun Waakzaamheid and the poor old Leopard's time in the lea of Desolation Island itself.
It was not until the final words of the pursuit sequence that I realized I had been holding my breath:"An enormous, momentary turmoil of black hull and white water, flying spars, rigging that streamed wild for a second, and then nothing at all but the great hill of green-grey with foam racing upon it."'My God, oh my God,' he said. 'Six hundred men.'"
I can't say enough about this series.
And we're talking parts of an 18th century warship, sailing terms, seas, winds, weather....not to mention customs, turns of phrase.
Point is, he plunges the reader into the Napoleonic wars, and you become immersed.His main characters are great: lucky Jack Aubrey, the brilliant man at sea, somewhat lost on land.
Stephen's broken heart over the wily, beautiful woman (also a spy).It's not just he-man stuff, though I think men will enjoy it more.
Give this series a shot.
As always the landlubbing side of the story isn’t for me & find the real adventure takes when they hit the high seas.The main thrust of the story involves Dr Maturin & an American “spy” on their way to Botany Bay where en route he is to ascertain the level of her involvement with ol’ Bony & them dastardly traitors (Americans that is), Captain Aubrey is onboard too with a gang of prisoners going to the colony which he finds a tad demeaning shall we say......Along the way we encounter prison plague......
The fact that he believes the couple will be unharmed--they are merely the messenger, without being aware of the dangerous message they carry--enables the reader to sympathize.Meanwhile, Jack has to deal with the horrible old Leopard, historically accurate: a badly built 50-gun war ship, whose captain in 1807 added to its many drawbacks by firing on an unprepared American vessel in order to seize sailors from it.
While dealing with the ship's vagaries, he is chased by an inimical Dutch captain in a well-built 74, with three times the men.
His mission - to transport a group of convicts to Botany Bay, including a woman, Louisa Wogan, who has been spying for the Americans.
Stephen Maturin joins Jack once again as ship's surgeon - but his real mission is to watch Mrs Wogan.
When a fever breaks out among the prisoners and crew, Jack decides to head for Recife - but he is pursued through the South Atlantic by a powerful Dutch warship.
Producer/director: Bruce Young.2 of 2: Jack Aubrey is pursued through the South Atlantic by a Dutch warship, whose 74 guns threaten to blow HMS Leopard out of the water.
I had expected the convicts to play a larger role in the book, but, contrary to O'Brian's usual fondness for lavish description and social commentary, they are hardly mentioned and remain pretty inconsequential to the whole story, apart from providing a reason for Leopard to be headed for Botany Bay. We never learn who they were and then they're gone.
Sure Desolation Island appears to be the beginning of a longer story arc -- perhaps we will see Mrs Wogan and Mr Herapath again to learn more about them -- but even then I needed just little bit more closure.
--10/24/11)Loved this story, the best of the lot I've read since Post Captain (though every single one is head and shoulders above most historical fiction I've ever read).
Stephen dabbles in matters of the heart again, after being squashed once again by Diana Villiers, and everyone's attention is focused for a time on the Dutch Waakzaamheid, a much larger and heavier armed ship that is stalking them near the Cape.
So persistent is the captain of that ship that Jack wonders if there's a personal grudge at work.
From BBC Radio 4 - Classical Serial:Patrick O'Brian's nautical adventure, dramatised by Roger Danes.
This was one of the best in this series yet. From start to finish I was intrigued, there was so much in this book. Spy games, sea chases, storms, iceberg, diseases and of course the friendship of Jack and Stephen.
La perfezione assoluta. Di nuovo.
Simon Vance was really good at this, and I enjoyed his narration very much.However, I strongly disliked the voices he affects for the characters when reading dialogue.
After several years hiatus from reading the first few novels, the re-patriation to life aboard her Royal Navy's ships is consuming, watching over the shoulders of familiar characters of Aubrey and Maturin.
But foreign ports come alive with the plot, and historical events take on personal significance through the characters eyes.
Each subsequent skirmish drives home the point that the balance of a fight at sea often depends on the difference of a few knots wind.
Within the novel you have nail biting skirmish, storm and sea survival, political intrigue, natural and worldly wonders.
This is the first book in this series that I picked up at the library to listen to.
I did not even realize it was part of a whole series until I looked for the title to add to my currently reading shelf.I had seen the movie - Master and Commander, so I knew who the main characters were - their names at least.
This book was narrated by Simon Vance.
The characters are wonderfully done!
I could almost smell the ocean and see the ice bergs.I cannot wait to listen to the next book.
Just not as good: no action (after the explosive beginning) and the remainder of the book spends too much time in Maturin's maudlin head.
As always, there is a gripping, varied narrative and some thoughtfully drawn characters – especially the capricious and enigmatic Lord Clonfert, whom I found a real source of interest and subtlety in this episode.Patrick O'Brian is steeped in the period of the early 19th Century and his knowledge of the language, manners, politics, social mores and naval matters of the time is deep and wide.
O'Brian's handling of language is masterly, with the dialogue being especially brilliant, but also things like the way his sentences become shorter and more staccato in the action passages, making them heart-poundingly exciting.
They are that rare thing; fine literature which are also books which I can't wait to read more of.
I persist because even the dull ones have spots of brilliant writing, although they are intermixed with long-winded passages of internal dialogue in which Stephen Maturin writes in his diary, muses on his love for Diana, or struggles with laudanum addiction.
(There may be some minor spoilers in this review - not really sure how to review a book without revealing anything about it) Its main conflict is the transport of a beautiful female spy, Louisa Wogan, who, despite being convicted of espionage, is given special consideration due to her relationships with powerful men.
The passages in which the crew is bailing for their lives aboard the sinking and terribly damaged Leopard are intense, nail-biting, suspenseful scenes.
This was my favorite of the series. Probably because I love Antarctica and hate the Dutch. Just kidding, Dutch people!
My favorite so far of the Aubrey/Maturin novels. The last three chapters are some of the most vivid yet. Keep the next book handy--it ends on a bit of a cliffhanger.
Such fun!
Great cameo characters, a warship chase in the Southern Ocean, shipwreck, more and more insight into the virtues and minor flaws of Jack Aubrey and Stephen Maturin.
These book are Homeric but also humorous, phantastical at times and agonizingly realistic at others.
I'm these days re-reading the series, first in haphazard order as plucked from my shelf, now in sequence with gaps to be filled from the library.
Everything builds up, though I recall from the first time around about fifteen years ago that the books near the end of the series circa number fourteen and up fell off a bit.
I just picked this up as part of a reading challenge and had no idea this author had written Master and Commander. Now I'm kind of excited to read the whole series!
O’Brian brilliantly brings home the utter, dreadful horror of such an event: a thousand miles from even the edge of civilisation, at a time when the oceans hadn’t even been fully charted, an exhausted crew endlessly pumping water out of the ship all through the night while others desperately try to repair the damage and jettison what wasn’t already thrown overboard during the flight from the Dutchman – and all the while a good part of the crew insisting that the ship is doomed, that they should take to the open boats and make for South Africa, more than a thousand miles away, a strain of panic beginning to run through a divided ship.Jack was awake, grey but alive, with Killick’s good breakfast dispelling the cold, when Grant came to him, reported the water over the top of the well and gaining fast, and the parting of the new fothering-sail at the dews.
Ugh, so good.
After some time working for the Navy ashore, Jack Aubrey is given command of the Leopard with orders to take her to Botany Bay and a cargo of convicts, including a spy who Stephen Maturin has been given the task of covertly obtaining information from.
Undermanned and unable to fight his ship effectively, Jack makes for Cape Town where he hopes to be able to recruit more sailors, but encountering a larger Dutch ship in the South Atlantic he is forced to change course and flee far south of the Cape to try to outrun her.
