https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/13888.Knife_of_Dreams
Keep loving them Mel 🖤🐾🐺
Sure she had to get captured and put in the white tower to do it but finally her story arc is way more interesting.✔ - Nynaeve and Lan finally getting a little relationship fleshing out and one of my favorite moments of the series.
Actually I think Avienda and Elayne should just do their own thing they don’t seem to need Rand at all (hide spoiler)]✔ - Mat and Tuon playing courting games that seem more like battle strategy I LOVE THEM SO MUCH TOGETHER✔ - Thom finally telling us what is in that letter that Moraince left for him how many books ago.
And a great one it was.
I didn't quite feel that it was on the level of the early great ones like The Eye of the World, The Shadow Rising and Lord of Chaos, but it definitely takes the pace up after three almost disappointingly mediocre books.In Knife of Dreams, interesting things start happening again, and we start moving towards a conclusion.
The Eye of the World
The Great Hunt
The Shadow Rising
Lord of Chaos
Knife of Dreams
Right from the prologue this was a fun and engaging read!So what happened?Spoilers ahead!!!Rand: He was fairly low key in this one but still managed to come to a few interesting decisions and had another epic showdown with one of the Forsaken!Mat: The star of yet another of the layer WoT books.
His chapters were pretty exciting as he finally got to that Faile rescue attempt he has been pondering for books, but I continue to be super disappointed by his development on a personal level.Egwene: She had another good book.
11 down 3 more to go. A much much better book than it's predecessor. Jordan finally got his act together and moved the plot forward. This book has most of the leading characters in action. Will write a detailed review for this later.
Things moves much closer to the Last Battle; three of the most annoying subplots which dragged on and on during the last three books were finally resolved (Perrin, Elayne, and Mat).
Below are my thoughts about the major characters of the series and their development.Rand shows up fairly briefly; one of the prophesies about him is finally fulfilled - I am talking about Min's viewing the first time she meets him in the first book.
ORIGINALLY POSTED AT Fantasy Literature.Knife of Dreams is another huge installment (1.3 days worth of audio!) which suffers the same faults as the last several WOT novels.
There was more spanking in Knife of Dreams than any of the previous novels.
But that's fine with me -- let's get this over with.Since Knife of Dreams was Robert Jordan's last book published before his death, let me say that I have enjoyed the world, the story, and the characters he created -- The Wheel of Time is truly epic and I respect Mr Jordan's work.
But I eagerly look forward to finding out how it all ends.You're up, Mr Sanderson!!Read more Robert Jordan book reviews at Fantasy literature.
Buddy read with the Dragon Sworn over at BB&BWhat a ride! CoT was one of the slower books (if not the slowest one) of the series so I was a bit accustomed to the boredom of political maneuvering and the characters just mull around doing nothing. So when this one started with a bang - the prologue was simply amazing (view spoiler)[ Galad, you made my day with that display of fighting prowess! (hide spoiler)] - I got so hyped that I could barely sleep. Following the prologue things slowed a bi
Now that all the characters were at the right places and everything was set several major plotlines spanning the last several books got resolved - most importantly the Perrin and Faile one.
(view spoiler)[In the space of just a couple of chapters she got the Lion throne and got rid of the Black sister in their mids as well as a few darkfriend prisoners.
(hide spoiler)]As with the previous book Mat stole the show.
(hide spoiler)]The epilogue managed to make me anxious to start the next book, especially with the events at the Black Tower.
WE ARE OUT OF THE SLUMP!!!!!!!!PRAISE THE LORD, THE BOOK DID ITI DIDN'T KNOW IT WOULD FEEL SO GOODBUT IT FELT EVEN BETTER THAN IT WAS POSSIBLE TO IMAGINE, I HAVE COME OUTTA THE OTHER SIDE STILL ALIVE The sweetness of victory and the bitterness of defeat are alike a knife of dreams  All right, let us get down to it.
In the span of 40 pages, in the greatest chapter of the book and one of the best in the whole series, she goes from Elayne level to Rand level.
Highlights include:Spoilers!
(view spoiler)[- Galad’s opening fight scene!- Perrin gets Faile back.
- Egwene fighting back against everything that is wrong with the White Tower.
Fine, she Slaps down the pretenders to her crown and gets rid of some Black Ajah .- Lan becomes a one-man army, but Nynaeve has the last say ;)I am sad that this was the last book by Jordan before he passed away, but I am also happy that Sanderson was chosen and accepted to finish this great epic and cannot wait to see (again*) what he has in store for us.
(hide spoiler)]
Rand doesn't get much showcase here (you know, most of the time, I feel like Jordan really didn't know what to do with rand as a character), but he's trying to make an alliance with the Seanchan happen, and ends up having a confrontation with one of the Forsaken instead.
Tor.com particularly has a lot of good coverage, including multiple re-reads written by Leigh Butler, and a first-time reader's experience that just started up last month, written by Kelsey Jefferson Bennett.But I will not lie when I say I am mostly excited to have gotten this far because I can't wait to see what Brandon Sanderson can do with this story and these characters, as I've historically responded really well to his whole thing as an author.
This is another installment in the series where nothing really happens, but the nothing is ever so slightly more interesting than nothing in the previous books.Most of the action revolves around Aes Sedai talking over coffee, plotting, counter-plotting, and such.
As the James Bond theme song goes: You only read twice, don't look for danger, cause the stranger is gooooooone.Limerick we shall now, yes please:Mat and Perrin in battle they held,Rand's loss was one whole hand,Loial was married,Sevanna was harried,This book was rather bad.Or rather, the Fawkes way:Remember, remember, the Shaido and Seanchan,Marriage, Trollocs and plot,I know of no reason,Why that particular season,My interest in WoT had begun to rot.Regards,Igor
Like in the previous tomes, scenes containing action are countered by the continuing focus on irrelevant power struggles between irrelevant female characters, complete with skirt-smoothing (elevated by Jordan to an infallible barometer of female agitation), arm-crossing (always "beneath her breasts" as if we were confused about where these crossed arms were going, above her head maybe) and spanking, of all things.
Healthy relationships, among women or between men and women, are nonexistent (Elayne and Aviendha are as close as it gets, so of course Jordan separates them); instead we get "I care about this person, but he/she is so hard to deal with!" Endlessly.
While it certainly marks an improvement, I would argue that A Knife of Dreams is a simply mediocre effort and nowhere near on par with the earlier books in the series.The key thing that fans seem to be praising about this novel is its pace; and indeed, the fact that Jordan resolves plotlines that have been festering away for as many as three or four 800 page novels is a welcome change.
3 stars
The first four books were absolutely brilliant but I think anyone will agree that the series went a bit haywire after that, Robert Jordan kept introducing more and more points of view and random plot threads that just never seemed to go anywhere.
Min and Rand fit together perfectly while Elayne and Aviendha are far more upset about leaving each other than they ever have been about parting from Rand.Anyway, Knife of Dream left me excited about the Wheel of Time series for the first time in ages and I'm looking forward to seeing how Brandon Sanderson does at pulling all the different threads together ready for the big finale.______________________Buddy read with Buddies, Books & Baubles starting 1st November 2016
Over 30 hours of audiobook entertainment.
I must admit to a feeling of relief to have finally reached the end although I did enjoy most of it.
There were parts that were really slow but there were also some really good parts especially when they featured Rand or Matt.
This seems to be the norm with these books though.
I will continue to the end.
I believe the next book is even longer than this one so my next review will be sometime in March :)
I also loved hearing about the way that she's progressing with her own internal struggles and seeing the way that this change had affected the way she approached scary situations and intimidating people.As for Matt I think his story in this book certainly interested me most because of how much focus we had on him as a character for once and the way that he seemed to be actually taking a role in the world once more and the ongoing problems following him.
I was very happy to see some of the problems between them and their situations come to a close and seeing Faile overcome her pettiness somewhat was certainly refreshing.
Executive Summary: Slow in places, but nothing like the last few books. This book felt like a return to form for Mr. Jordan. Sadly it was his last.Audiobook: Another fantastic job from Michael Kramer and Kate Reading. They really make this world come alive and have always made the slower parts of the series pass by much easier. Full Review I remember really enjoying this book on my first read. I enjoyed it just as much on my second. By this point in the series Mat was by far my favorite characte
This book is a lot of Mat. This time around I still enjoyed his parts the best.
Now things can move on, and if I remember correctly, I enjoyed the rest of his story much more than the middle parts.Nynaeve had a relatively small part in this book, but what she did is yet another reason that despite all the braid tugging and skirt straightening that she became one of my favorites of the series.The stuff with Rand has also gotten much better and a few of the most interesting chapters in the book belong to him.Egwene's chapters are probably my favorite after Mat's.
I find it poetic that Robert Jordan saved his best for his last completed work and for one are glad he left us with this particular volume.The pace picks up in this particular novel, leaving behind the slow plotting of the previous books.
The one slower section through the novel is the storyline centred around Perin and Faile, however since events are occurring rapidly throughout that narrative it reads easier than anything in the previous three novels.
(hide spoiler)]If you've read this far you might as well continue on because these last couple of books (assuming the last one is good) appear to be some of the best in the series.
I might write a review at some point, but for now I will just say Knife of Dreams was a vast improvement over the previous books, especially Crossroads of Twilight. Improvement in terms of plot, if not characters. (view spoiler)[I came to hate Perrin and Faile with a passion! (hide spoiler)]
With the series dragging plotlines that it did not need on to ridiculous length, subplots bogging down all forward momentum, and most of the fast paced action from the first five books utterly absent for so long that many fans of the series had forgotten there could be such a thing in a Wheel of Time book, Jordan finally pulled the series out of its rut, and set it back on it's path to the inevitable conclusion.
Book 11 of the Wheel of Times series: Knife of Dreams.
Finally, Robert Jordan managed to pull it off in this book!
After a few slow paced books, this book managed to tie up all the events leading to the Last Battle which is coming soon.
Its more action packed as compared to the last few books.
It's so sad that this was Robert Jordan's final book in this series that he wrote himself.
The last 3 books in this series were written by Brandon Sanderson after Robert Jordan's death and I can't wait to start them after this amazing read!
3.5 or 3.75 Stars.This was a weird one.
The usual cast of characters is here, more or less: Mat and Perrin (and Faile) seem largely wasted, as their chapters consist of page after page after page of strategizing.
Thom is likewise sidelined, serving largely as a supporting character to Mat. Elayne has a substantial number of pages devoted to her plight, but for the most part absolutely nothing happens.
Egwene, on the other hand, has an incredibly compelling storyline in this book and has become (I can’t believe I’m saying this) perhaps my favorite character.
U ovoj knjizi sve žene "frkću".
Ja znam da žene cokću, uzdišu, kolutaju očima, ali nikada ih nisam čula da "frkću".
Frkću mačke i psi kada im nešto nadraži nos.
Takođe, izgleda da u celom Džordanovom svetu ne postoji žena kojoj se ne može pripisati barem neki stepen histeričnog ponašanja.
Sve ostale se nešto inate.
Sve su bolesno tvrdoglave, sve se inate, sve se prave pametne.
Čak i one cicke koje su obećavale na kraju su se stopile u isti obrazac ponašanja.
So this was originally meant to be the penultimate book, eh? This was a refreshingly fast paced read after the much slower last few installments. Well, it's SANDERSON TIEM!
I have more comments hidden within the spoiler tags below.(view spoiler)[It’s about time we finally got confirmation that Moiraine is still alive and a clear indicator of how her storyline will continue.
I was half hoping that the prequel (New Spring) that focused on Moiraine might have been a hint that her story would finally come back up in book 11.
After they finally found the bowl but not Moiraine, I started to realize I was going to have to wait a while for any kind of resolution.I had initially expected Moiraine’s letter to Thom to contain some information about how/when he would find her.
He has many secrets he cannot tell, but he must carry the WOT on his back alone…Egwene is also finding the higher meanings of her existence under the torture of her worst enemy, Elaida, the false Amyrlin Seat.
Freeing Faile is going to be tricky…Well, so here we are - the last book Robert Jordon wrote for ‘The Wheel of Time’ series.
The series WAS finished in published books 12, 13, and 14.
I am going to be brave, myself, and push on into Sanderson’s vision of Tarmon Gai’don, the Last Battle, hopefully to begin in the next book, ‘The Gathering Storm’.
'Cause he makes me laugh every bloody time :DHere are my tops of the book (where he is finally caught in the women net ;)).Mat is great general.“Uncase the banner, Macoll.
-Mat Cauthon, Knife of Dreams, Chapter 6: A Stave and a RazorAnd that bloody woman is always so stern, and bloodthirsty.Now, that killed the goat.
-Tuon, Knife of Dreams, Chapter 27: A Plain Wooden BoxBut Tuon understands tough choices that Mat as commander must take.A lion can have no mercy.
-Tuon, Knife of Dreams, Chapter 27: A Plain Wooden BoxAnd she finally succumbs, and acknowledge him as her husband.Bloody Matrim Cauthon is my husband.
O livro teve mais foco nele e como sempre seus capítulos dão uma leveza na tensão da trama.Esperava a conclusão do arco da Egwene na Torre branca, mas parece que vai ficar para o The Gathering Storm.
Nosso querido Dragão não teve muito foco nesse livro, mas nos poucos capítulos narrados foram cheios de ação, e digo que ele não se deu bem no último.
A Torre Branca está uma zona, muitos países estão desorganizados e em guerra civil, mas é como diz o velho ditado, let the Lord of Chaos rule!
