https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/31421.Letters_Home
It seems like she used her letters in a similar way that I use my diary, so I felt as if I was right in her life.
It's difficult not to read her poetry and such autobiographically - I feel so desperately sorry for her because of how everything she did seems to be coloured by her marriage to Ted Hughes and her suicide and a sort of hysterical, whining feminism (and there is a little voice in my head that says that none of this would ever have happened if she was a man).
The disparity between her bleak poetry and these almost desperately cheerful letters to her mother is heartbreaking.
Mothers and daughters are set up to fail.But the love that's undenably there is very special.
In these letters to her mother, Sylvia Plath dares to admit her uncertainties, to reflect her personal fears, failures and questions on her mental status.Why?
So, in this rare look at Plath, when Sylvia allows herself to be more even and human than I've ever seen her, we see Siivy in her most even tones, which is crutial, if you ever want to see her as realistic.I loved it--especially Aurelia's notes at the bottoms of each page, indicating Syliva could not hide.
Sylvia Plath's Letters Home juxtaposed against her Unabridged Journals is a fascinating study.
The face she showed to Mummy in her letters versus what was truly happening in her life and mind is heartbreaking and reminds me of the importance in my own heavy depression struggle of being as true as I can to all the people in my life, so that they might see me and pull me into light when I start to fail.
Her letters are almost manic in their tales of the mad joy she supposedly found while away at college, and then with Ted Hughes in her marriage.
Having read these letters in such a short period of a time, I feel somewhat bereft without them.
Sylvia's ambition, determination, and (more than anything) her love of life shines in these letters.
The later section of the collection is truly heart-wrenching.
After moving from London to the country with Ted, Sylvia gave birth to their second child.
After Ted had moved out and Sylvia became intent on owning an apartment in London (specifically W.B. Yeat's old flat), her writing becomes somewhat frenzied.
A truly haunting collection of letters, I feel I have gained some profound insight into a poet I greatly admire.
Plath transcribes her life in a typically beautiful way, and it's such a joy to read about her daily thoughts and events of whatever day she found herself on.
I'll spare you all the gibbering praise and say that it's truly a must for any Plath fan, especially those wanting to learn more about her life.
It's always refreshing to read Plaths narrative but reading it about her own life is all the more special in the most dazzlingly tragic way.

I finished about three quarters of these letters.
While many people on here felt these letters were more personal and enjoyable than her diary entries, I have to disagree.
I actually got a tad bored with them.
What I did find interesting was to read them along with the diary entries.
There is such a discrepancy between private Sylvia and the way she chose to present herself to the world.
These letters do show that she was an extremely hard-working, perfectionistic girl who genuinely tried to be happy.
But I have no desire to finish this book at this point in time.
Anche se in questa raccolta di lettere è presente solo un terzo della corrispondenza integrale tra Aurelia Schober e sua figlia, Sylvia Plath, non si può non percepirne, tra le righe, l'evoluzione stilistica.
Quell'evoluzione che l'ha resa una delle poetesse più affermate del novecento e l'ha portata al successo solo dopo la sua tragica morte, nel febbraio del 1963.
Being a woman’s hard
I think these letters seem a lot more intimate than Sylvia's diaries. I found by reading her poems in chronological order alongside these letters home, a clearer rendering of Plaths world, or worlds, surfaces. Her letters home were often painfully cheerful and optimistic, it felt somehow unreal standing up against such dark poetry. I got really sad about halfway through. Very genuine and truthful emotions of a hardworking and ambitious girl. Her passions are too strong and her ideals are too vul
I think these letters seem a lot more intimate than Sylvia's diaries. I found by reading her poems in chronological order alongside these letters home, a clearer rendering of Plath´s world, or worlds, surfaces. Her letters home were often painfully cheerful and optimistic, it felt somehow unreal standing up against such dark poetry. I got really sad about halfway through. Very genuine and truthful emotions of a hardworking and ambitious girl. Her passions are too strong and her ideals are too vulnerable. It left me quite upset.
So raw, heartfelt and entirely heartbreaking.There was a universe contained in her existence, with such incredible depth in feeling and experiencing life and nature;I cried reading Sivvy's description of going to Paris the first time for its beauty. I wonder if I'll ever get to live a moment so vividly again, just by reading...There is so much to regret and so much tragedy even after her death. She really could've been so much more if she had stayed strong.Heart goes out to Frieda Rebecca who is fortunately still alive, and the rest of her family.
显然没看完……这里面的女孩，恋家，爱美，热爱生活，享受生活，心里没有阴暗，没有恨，没有厌恶，没有恶毒，没有敌意……其实她的诗里面也没有这些东西。她真的是个诚挚的姑娘，没有敌意的姑娘。软妹子。母亲的语气看上去很好……
What mother doesn't want to think that the self a child presents to her in chatty letters home is the child's True Self?
so good, I gained a new respect for her as a writer or person. she seemed to embrace life; she was just fragile.
It's a book I pick up every now and again and read a couple of poems.Some are quite unnerving when I think about her life and some I don't quite understand, but it doesn't spoil the pleasure of reading!
Dear Mom,I think I might be insane [but really, it's just because I think i'm a genius poet].Her diaries are even better
2.5/5 or 5/10
This book, I have been meaning to read for some time now. It was so good, and I can see why a mentor of mine enjoys this book.
Très intéressant comme lecture. J'ai lu la traduction française, qui correspond à la première moitié du livre original d'après ce que j'ai compris. La deuxième moitié n'a jamais été traduite, dommage. Peut-être qu'un jour je mettrai la main sur l'original.
Perhaps it is the fresh-faced optimism that washes over the early letters and the beginning stages of Plath's marriage, or perhaps it is the truthfulness with which these are recorded and told by Plath's mother, Aurelia, that makes them so thought provoking.
Regardless, these letters offer a wholly different perspective on the bitch-goddess and helpless woman that we are inclined to interpret Plath as.
Aurelia kindly allowed Plath's spiteful interpretations of her to be published in Ted's abridged journals, however, it is difficult not to wonder whether Aurelia was really a manipulative and controlling woman or not.Questions this raises:Was Plath's resentment towards her mother unjustified?
As evidenced by her personal letters, Plath was actually highly ambitious, gregarious, overly exultant, yet cutthroat and critically temperamental at times too.
(Let’s just say had I been stuck in a classroom with Plath, I surely would have detested her holier-than-thou personality.) She was certainly calculating, resolute, and determined to succeed as an accomplished writer.It's also worth mentioning (because I sickly enjoy cross-referencing timelines) that I discovered a thrill in simultaneously reading (and thus comparing) her journals and her letters.
In Letters Home, Plath gives the best and brightest news to her mother but later describes the same event(s) in detail within her journal.
She and Ted worked so hard, sending out 40 submissions in some months, writing for 2 hours + a day, in a fever of love and creativity.Talking to her mother you can see her trying, you can see her pretending contentment, you can see the cogs whirring under her temples.
There are hints of it and even though you know how her story ends it is still a shock when it does.I've always hated Ted Hughes as a reflex but while reading one realises they really were in love and so well-suited to each other.
And the faculty gossip, especially among the men, over morning coffee, afternoon tea, and evening cocktails is very boring: all about the latest gossip, possible appointments, firings, grants, students, literary criticism - all secondary, it seems - an airtight, secure community, with those on tenure getting pot-bellies.
Writers especially are suspect if they don't place academic life first, and we have seen one or two of our writing acquaintances given very raw and nasty deals.
But it has been impossible for either of us to get any work done, and we feel that if we drifted into this well-paid security, we would curse ourselves in ten years' time for what might have been."
After reading The Bell Jar, I just had to know more about Sylvia Plath.
After finishing The Bell Jar, I felt hopeful for the main character, who is thinly disguised as Sylvia herself.
Reading Letters Home felt like a voyeuristic journey into Plath's life, but I was fascinated by her and how she could reach such despair.
The end to Letters Home left me questioning why she decided to remove herself from this world.
However, I felt like I got a clearer picture of who Ms. Plath was as an entire being, not just some tortured poet.
I read this book because I'm a Plath fan, and the letters cover two periods of her life for which there are no journals to refer to.
Plath was honest in her journals: in her letters to her mother, she tries to put a cheerful spin on everything.
Plath and her mother had an extremely close, symbiotic relationship.
There is a subtext to the letters: Plath is listing her achievements, the prizes that she won, her grades, her publications, her dates, and later, her perfect husband and her children.
She could not be 'herself'- she had to present a model of perfection.
I am so glad I read this book.
Reading these letters home to her mother from the time she was at Smith until right before her death show so many sides of her personality- her love of her children, her husband, traveling, writing.
What struck me most about these letters was her strong spirit.
She was determined to make it through the most difficult period of her life- losing Ted, struggling to make a life for her and her children, fending off depression.
It was a side of her I'd never read before.

I read this in college.
Sylvia's struggles with bipolar disorder are not clearly addressed in this book as much as in her private journals.
I could not decide if it was her mental illness that lead to her suicide or her philandering husband, Ted Hughes.
Hughes did publish work after her death but it does not compare to the caliber of talent she shared with the world.
I also wonder about the future collection of letters and journals from authors in this digital age.
It will not be the same as the collections of actual hand written or typed journals.
'Letters Home', a collection of Sylvia Plath's letters to her mother, brother and sponsor, could easily be mistaken for an epistolary novel.
The letters are further evidence of Plath's intelligence, ambition and vulnerability, and showcase the development of her poetic voice in a very interesting and personal way.
They tell a slightly different side of the story to that which is presented in Plath's own journals and in the biographies of her (the letters are often cheerful and optimistic, even when they contain bad news), though I found this volume to be the most affecting.
'Letters Home' is an interesting, heartbreakingly poignant read that I would highly recommend to anyone.
