https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/158857.Charlotte_Sometimes
It was a rainy day so the councilors were letting the kids run amok in the building.
Me, being bored to tears by the rain and driven crazy by the kids running amok decided to check out the bookshelves.The title Charlotte Sometimes caught my eye and grabbed the book to read in my tent later.Once I read the book, and fell in love with it, I had to get my own copy so I could share it with all of my Cure loving friends.
It's still one of my favorite books, and it still puts me in the mood to listen to the Cure.
My 10 year old self gives this 5 full stars.
If I wasn’t so in touch with my 10 year old self, I might have given this only 4 stars, but it’s a completely delightful and smart story.It’s very suspenseful.
It was fun to try to figure out who one particular character was.Charlotte is a wonderful character, and I was particularly fond of Emily.
This is a skillfully told story, compelling from beginning to end, and very touching throughout.When I was a kid I used to love this author’s book The Summer Birds; I’m so glad I read this one for the Goodreads’ group: A Thrilling Term at Goodreads: The Girls’ School-Story Group.
Charlotte Makepeace starts at boarding school, I am guessing sometime in the 1950s.
Charlotte is confused and starts to wonder who she really is.This is a beautifully written book, very thoughtful and philosophical.
Although we have read many books about children in World War II, this was the first we had read about the first war and felt this was sensitively written, describing the family devastated by the loss of their son, and how he had always dreampt of the glory of war and found the reality much different.
Charlotte Makepeace is sent to an English boarding school in 1958.
When Charlotte (as Clare) is sent to board with a family in town, she becomes trapped in 1918.
Charlotte/Clare stays with a family that has lost their only son in the war.
Charlotte sees the wounded soldiers returning from the war, the prejudice and cruelty of the boarding school girls toward a student that is half-German, spies on a séance that her boarding family holds hoping to contact their dead son and celebrates Armistice Day. I’m attaching a link to a video of The Cure’s song Charlotte Sometimes.
A wonderful and unusual time travel story. Another one that I missed as a child and was glad to find as an adult.
.The people seemed so closeSo many other namesPart II, chapter 2, paragraph 37: “Good night, Mr. Chisel Brown,” she said with almost a curtsy.
Good night, Miss Agnes Chisel Brown.
. ..” When all the other people dance - Reference to school danceExpressionless the trance - Reference to séance So many different names - Reference to names of Brown familyThe sounds all stay the same - Reference to airplane sounds overheadOn a different world - Past where Charlotte travelsOn that bleak track(See the sun is gone again)The tears were pouring down her faceShe was crying and crying for a girlWho died so many years before Part III, chapter 2, paragraph 53, 1st sentence: On that bleak track, the sun almost gone again, tears were pouring down her face.
I would have loved this book to bits when I was ten years old. It has so many good things in it - time travel, boarding school, some nice historical facts , possibly a few ghosts........all good fun! Reading it now though it is quite clearly a children's book (not YA) and as such is a little bland and lacking in real action. So for me this was an excellent children's book, well written and entertaining although of course also old fashioned.
4.5 STARSPenelope Farmer is an author who captured "the mysterious emotions of children, their uneasy relationships, and the sometimes terrifying awareness of their encompassing worlds." -- Ruth Hill Viguers, Horn Book."Charlotte Sometimes" is an intensely thoughtful, emotional story about Charlotte Makepeace, a young teenager attending boarding school in about 1950 in the English countryside.
As Clare and Charlotte sleep, they trade places, back and forth between the times.
Emily helps Charlotte make sense of the world in 1918, and they form a strong bond when, after the school dorms are used to house influenza victims, the Moby girls are sent to stay with the Chisel-Browns.
I came to this book somewhat late, having learnt of it only through my adoration of The Cure (Robert Smith took inspiration from the book for three of his songs - 'Charlotte Sometimes', 'Splintered in her Head' and 'The Empty World').
I now share at least one thing with Robert Smith (in addition to my teen penchant for eyeliner); we have both been haunted by this book for years.
Ostensibly a time-travel/adventure story ('with quite large writing', as one of my friends joked when he saw me reading it), Charlotte Sometimes is really about so much more - war, alienation, identity...
Charlotte Sometimes is a wistful, fascinating blend of boarding school story and time travel fantasy.
When Charlotte wakes up from her first night at boarding school, she finds that she has been magically transported back into the past, where everyone thinks she's a girl called Clare, attending the same school forty years earlier.
When she wakes up the next morning, she's back in her own time, but she soon realizes that she slips back and forth every night, spending every other day as Clare.
The historical details are nicely done too, as Charlotte sees the differences between her own time and the time during World War I to which she slips back.
When I first heard the song which shares the title of this book by the 80's pop band, The Cure, I was enthralled.
Astonishment ensued when I found out that the band had written the song about a story.
I had to order the book as it is no longer in print and paid a pretty penny for something I figured would be nothing more than a keepsake for my love of The Cure.
I read it three times since I bought it and every time I try to figure out why and what has caused this riff in time for Charlotte.
Ostensibly a time-travel book, this little gem is actually more about figuring out who one really is. Lots of interesting historical detail thrown in besides. And it's got the perennial hook of boarding school to add to the allure. The characters rang true- especially the confusion and dismay and mustering of wits. Recommended.I read this over the summer and somehow missed reviewing it. It was a perfect book to read by the pool.
The only aspect of the book that I disliked was discovering that Clare died 4 days after her return, which I found to be quite upsetting and wished that Farmer had explored Emily and Clare reuniting after the final swap.
I would use this book with year 5/6 as I think it is a story that adds challenge as well as being manageable to read and understand.
The reader is really able to empathise with the characters and understand the struggle Charlotte has in keeping up with the time travel and living two lives at the start of the story as well as finding ways to reunite Emily with her sister and send Charlotte back to her time.
I enjoyed every single page. A story which plays the time-slip genre with great maturity. A story of a young girl finding her identity by losing it. The relationship between Charlotte and Emily was so intense. I'm really moved by the sense of change and loss.
Time travel and boarding school - how can you beat it?My friend Ellen tells me that the Cure has a song called Charlotte Sometimes based on this book. How very odd!
Charlotte and Clare actually change places bodily; they look enough alike that nobody notices, although everyone wonders why each girl forgets so many things and is one day good at piano lessons, one day good at math, but never consistent in any subject.
Even Charlotte realizes that she's never really looked at her hands or face closely enough to be sure whether she's still physically Charlotte or whether she's inhabiting another body that's just similar to her own.It's an interesting idea, and well carried out.Notes on a June 2004 re-read: I read the 1987 edition of Charlotte Sometimes, but I'd heard beforehand that the later editions (such as mine) had a different ending from the original one.
It's a time travel fantasy, in which two girls at the same boarding school, one in 1918 and one in the present day (which was 1960 something---it's an old book) switch places.
From a science fictional perspective, the book is flawed, not answering questions about how or why the transfer takes place.
However, by exploring the outcomes of their switching places---the bizarre relationship between the two girls who never really meet, and the (hinted at) dangers of learning/knowing too much about the future when you may soon return to the past---Farmer created a novel that is haunting and poignant, blending fantasy with the very real concern of finding one's place in the world.
Even though her fellow students, who closely resemble her new friends at her original boarding school, are calling her Clare!Sufficed it to say, this book was definitely refreshing in its characters and setting, but also it had a big historical inspiration, it's a novel of the First World War. Penelope Farmer researched this well, to weave factual information not only about the war itself but the lifestyle people would've had, from the rations of food and drink to the fact that anyone, including fathers and brothers, would've met their fate in the war.
I was expecting this to be whimsical and sort of funny but it turned out to be extremely suspenseful, at times creepy, and very thoughtful! The bits about World War I and the mystery of where the two girls would end up were terrifying.
This was always one of my favorite books from my childhood.
She comes out of this experience as one who has learned sympathy, responsibility, the importance of history and its creative power, as a girl I would like to consider to be a burgeoning adult.Overall, I think the picture of adulthood that Farmer gives the reader is not one of loss.
It shows the growth and the (albeit different) creative power and understanding of oneself that gives young adulthood its distinction from childhood.
There were a few things that I thought might be relevant that were never addressed again (what was the deal with Elsie, for example?), but on the whole it was a pretty cohesive story.I did like most of the characters, but I especially liked Clare's younger sister, Emily.
(The good thing about this edition, though, was that it included the original ending.
However, you do not need to have read the first two books to enjoy the third (and it's a good thing, too, since the others appear to be out of print).http://theladybugreads.blogspot.ca/20...

This is a low fantasy time-travel novel published in 1969.
The story is simply told in a clear prose style.
It's really a lovely tale, well told.
I was immediately taken with Charlotte and the other characters.
I believed them as characters and felt that the dynamics of their relationships rang true.
Low fantasy narratives are a passion - extraordinary things happening to everyday people - "The Twelve And The Genii" by Pauline Clarke was a recent favorite, "The Children of Green Knowe" by L.M. Boston, "Tuck Everlasting" by Natalie Babbitt are also highly recommended.
I have the vague feeling that I've read this book in the past.
It was published in 1969; I turned 8 that year.
It's highly likely that I found this book in the library that same year, or the next, or the next.
I was already a voracious reader and loved time travel, ghost stories, magic, historical adventure.
The confusion is written so well, and the life of a schoolgirl in both time periods is given in great detail.I'll be recommending this to my grandchildren in a few years.
I loved this book and I thought it could be good for all ages.Time travel.Time travel.I don't read many time travel books because I think there are not that much out there.I RECOMMEND THIS BOOK PLEASE READ!! :)
Really far out experience to read this; it combines time travel with childhood imagination to create an unforgettable story of life in the first world war.
About a third of the way through the book, she and Claire wind up stuck in the wrong times when Charlotte and Emily are sent to live with an elderly couple and their spinster daughter.
I was horrified at whatever was happening to Claire, who'd have no idea.Emily continues to be a shit, mocking the couple who are grieving for their son, a casualty of World War II.
But Emily, that little turd, grew up to be a bigger turd and have 4 children and live happily ever after.Charlotte Sometimes is a good story, but most times just sucks.
It's about time travel, I suppose, though really that's only incidental.
It's about self-knowledge for Charlotte, and how she gets a little braver and more distinct in how she differs from Clare.
It's also about all the other characters and how they change throughout the book, though we only ever see them through Charlotte's eyes.
And it's about people never really in the book at all, like Arthur, and Emma, and Clare for that matter.
It has a feeling of ghosts throughout--though most of the ghosts are real.
And a feeling of mystery.
And comfort through time.
And lack of comfort.
I read the first part of this book as a child but I never finished it – funny that I finished it now, in my 40s. It seems appropriate, given its time travel themes.
