https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/26192467-first-comes-love
Josie and Meredith are sisters who are still coping with their brother's death, 15 years later.
Now, some stories that I categorize as "women's fiction" that involve sisters feature a sort of love/hate relationship.
I know women like that exist, but I just hate how mothers and wives are often depicted this way in these types of stories.
You would think being in her head for part of the story would make me like her more, but I almost DNFed this story at 90% because I was so disgusted with Meredith.
I thought that her relationship with Gabe, her platonic best friend, was inconsistently depicted, and downright confusing at times.
Short version: everyone in this book needs therapy. Long version: *Spoilers ahead. Because this book was so meh, I just don't care.* I'm not really sure when Emily Giffin's characters crossed the line from being complex and realistic to whiny and unlikable, but the latter is absolutely on full display in First Comes Love. Giffin introduces us to Meredith and Josie, two sisters who have let their entire lives be defined by the early, stereotypical prologue death of their older brother. Since that
Since that point in time, Meredith has gone on to marry her deceased brother's best friend (and question every minute of that marriage), while Josie is obnoxious, and eternally obsessed with relationships and babies.
Honestly, between the sisters bickering like absolute brats at every possible opportunity - including a SUPER awkward family dinner- their mom's obsession with remaining connected with her deceased son's one-time girlfriend who has clearly moved on, and Meredith and Jo generally refusing to take responsibility for their lives, I just can't recommend this book.
First Comes Love: A Novel introduces us to sisters Josie and Meredith Garland.
Giffin's novels aren't just about romance; there is usually other forms of love explored in her books and I love all the dynamics that she can bring to the table without the story being confusing or off putting.
A true gem of a read that would be as perfect for the beach as it is in your own home; either way you'll be transported into another story that will touch your heart.
The way something you said or did or thought about doing when you were five or ten or fifteen will be held against you or used to measure the person you should have become twenty, thirty years later.
And it is in these moments that I am most grateful for my sister.”Slowly the story unfolds, like an origami swan, until you see the way that all those dents and creases and wrinkles are what make a family, like the swan, so lovely.
“there is one constant, one thing you can always count on, that not only does love come first, but in the end, it is the only thing that remains.
Fool me twice, shame on me."That's how I feel after reading First Comes Love.
First off, Meredith is the least likeable character in a book I have read, ever.
She was so mean and nasty I found myself hoping that she stays the same miserable person her entire life bc happiness shouldn't be wasted on someone like that.Josie was a bit more likeable but slightly annoying, especially in the beginning with her Will obsession.
I don't know what it is, but something changed with Giffin's writing in the last two books.
Her stories are no longer even slightly relatable, and her characters are lame.
Josie is a first grade teacher, single and living with her best friend Gabe (more on him in a bit).
This story is about how Josie and Meredith confront those issues and how they come to terms with their own decisions in life.
One of my favorite things about this novel (which I haven't really seen before anywhere) was the fact that Gabe and Josie had the best friendship, a friendship that everyone should have...and the author made the friendship happen between a man and a woman, both straight.
First Comes Love is a standalone, women's fiction novel written by Emily Giffin.
Alas, I almost always enjoy books about sisters...so I dove in.As the synopsis indicates, a family tragedy occurs and two sisters, Josie and Meredith, internalize their grief in very different ways.
Based on my personal reading experience, I felt so much of the book focused on Josie, specifically her motherhood goal, causing me to forget that all the layers were meant to thread together.
There's absolutely nothing wrong with wanting to pursue motherhood via a sperm donor but she had an amazing candidate in front of her face the whole entire time and all the leading up to it felt like a waste of freakin' book space IMO.
It is not too heavy but does deal with grief, relationships(husband/wife, sibling, friends, etc.).The book opens with a family tragedy 15 years in the past.
The book then fast forwards (15 years) to the future as we see Josie and Meredith, two sisters who are polar opposites navigating their lives.
Josie is the older sister but reading the book, It felt like Meredith was older and Josie was the younger one.
The book really is about relationships, being yourself, being honest with yourself and others all while dealing with grief.
Sisters Josie and Meredith are left in the aftermath of a tragedy, experiencing their grief in very different ways.
While Meredith appears to be more rigid and type A, the practical person in me identified more with her than with Josie.
Parts of the story made me sad due to the tragic elements that remained throughout, but the story was very good and I had to keep reading to find out what would happen.First Comes Love is about family, the tumultuous relationship siblings often have, and grief, experienced differently by everyone and not something you just get “over”.
I really enjoyed this book!
Giffin's books have been a hit or a miss for me.
Glad this was a hit.
I have to say that I was engaged from beginning to end by Josie, Meredith, and the rest of the characters.
Others have said the sisters were unrealistic but I beg to differ.
Many themes in this novel than your usual fluff: different relationships, love, family, guilt, and survival through tragedy.
Hope her next book is just as good (or better).
Favorite Quote: "...not only does love come first, but in the end, it's the only thing that remains.
The four stars is for the moral lesson, otherwise it is a well written story about siblings, a nice one and a judgmental bitchy one who we were supposed to also root for because the story was told from both of their point of views, but if there’s one thing that’s worse than a judgmental person, is a judgmental person with a shitty life.
It’s been way too long since I’ve read an Emily Giffin book.
It’s her knack for exploring the complicated relationship and her cast of relatable characters that have landed her on my list of favorite authors.
Starting with Something Borrowed and Something Blue.This story is centered around two very different sisters - Josie and Meredith.
Some of the choices they made in the aftermath of his death have resulted in regrets and it’s time to face some hard realities.
Sit back and accept the way things are or make a drastic change?It’s a real struggle for the sisters to find common ground.
Emotionally honest and utterly enthralling, First Comes Love is a story about family, friendship, and the courage to follow your own heart—wherever that may lead.Maybe I'm being generous with giving this book four stars because I'm happy that Emily Giffin has wrote a better book than that horrible The One and Only.
If you are a huge Emily Giffin fan then read it, if you just enjoy reading in general I would say no rush to read this book but it should be on your list.
Josie and Meredith are sisters, but they have little in common other than the fact that they share DNA.
They both, along with their parents, are trying to deal with their grief surrounding their brother's untimely death.
In addition to that, Josie is an elementary school teacher and feels like she is running out of time.
She's got a lovely daughter, an amazing career, and a hot husband, but she isn't happy.
Also, the night of Daniel's death isn't as cut and dry as it seems.
Emily Giffin's First Comes Love is an compelling beach read that fans of family drama will enjoy.
I'm not sure why, but couldn't really get into the story. It wasn't the flipping back and forth, I just couldn't connect. I still enjoyed it and felt that it was written well and had good character development. I just really enjoyed Something Borrowed much better...
Josie and Meredith are sisters the couldn't be more opposite of each other.
Josie is the elder, but makes rash decisions, likes to party, and wonders whether she should look for a sperm donor as she's entering her late thirties.
Secrets are kept and resentment builds until the end of the book when everything all falls down.
Book is told in alternating voices between Meredith and Josie.
By the end of the book, I didn't see the growth that they desperately needed to mend their broken relationship.
I also found myself getting slightly annoyed with Josie and her obsession with getting pregnant and the choices she ended up making seemed slightly far-fetched.
I feel the need to start this review by explaining how I managed to give this novel 4-stars when I completely disliked every character in this book.
Indeed, I think Giffin really shines in family drama and the description of everyday life in a way that’s interesting and smart.This book surrounds the story of this family, the Garlands, who after losing their oldest son in a car accident become extremely dysfunctional.
In the case of the Garlands, it certainly brought out the worst.Although this story does not really have a plot, Giffin still manages to make the narrative engaging and the dialogues dynamic.
Long are gone the days of "Something Borrowed" where you could expect a nice story with some twists and eventually a happy ending.Down to specifics.
This is the story of three siblings: Daniel, Josie and Meredith.Daniel: Dies in the prologue.
Already we start black.Meredith: Unhappily married.
Here's why (view spoiler)[ So. Meredith has a gorgeous, loving husband and a beautiful daughter.
But she's very unhappy because apparently she married her husband, not loving him, only because he was her dead brother's best friend.
I was sorry Giffin chose to make Meredith be friend with Ellen from The One and Only, poor Ellen!Josie.
I wasn't disappointed, even though it's much different from what I was expecting.I liked how the book starts with the tragedy that strikes the family, the older brother's death.
Also, as someone who hasn't lost that many people yet (touch wood), it's always a bit difficult for me to imagine losing a close one, so even though it's a bit painful to read about, grief is something that has always interested me.The main characters are incredibly well developped and they keep becoming more and more interesting.
I won an ARC from a Goodreads Giveaway.In a nutshell? Ugh. I am so sick and tired of reading about emotionally immature characters, absolute selfishishness, inability to move on after a tragic event in their lives, and fail to recognize that others do (and fault them because they have). The blame game they play, major control and inflexibility of characters. Seriously, you are in counseling for years, and you still haven't learned that if what you're doing isn't working, God forbid, should you change it?This is better to skip. A disappoint by a gifted author.
Emily Giffin still is a must read author for me. First Comes Love is so good in so many ways. A great Book Club book filled with lots of important questions about life, forgiveness and love.
The point of view alternates between Sisters Josie and Meredith.
Meredith is the responsible one, a lawyer, wife and mother.
The only thing she knows for sure is that her four year old daughter is the best part of her life.Josie a couple of years older, is a first grade teacher, living with her best male friend Gabe.
Her world is rocked when the daughter of her former love, Will, ends up in her first grade class.
She's in her late 30's, desperately wants to be a mother and worries her chance for a husband and traditional family has passed her by.
I just can't see this getting any better for me and everyone should really enjoy each and every story they pick up!!
Problem is, the content is crap I hate - the problems, the dumb lying, the old boyfriend feelings, marrying for the wrong reasons, not seeing answers that are right in front of you.
I couldn't even keep the 2 sister's straight as they bounced back and forth, that's how badly I connected with this.
Some authors can write this stuff in a really smart and fun way, actually Emily Giffin did - but it was in a book called Something Borrowed :)
I was given a free copy of this book by NetGalley in exchange for an honest review.This is the story of two incredibly unlikeable sisters; a shallow characterization of the relationship between two sisters after the death of their brother.
Giffin shares a skeletal story of two self involved women who constantly attack one another.
Her sister is equally whiny and one dimensional.
Supposedly the mature, responsible sibling, she is as annoyingly indecisive as her sister.
Unless you want to read a story that barely scratches the surface of human emotion, don't waste your time.
A raw, compelling, and emotionally honest portrait of sisterhood. With a master storyteller's easy eloquence, Giffin shines a searing spotlight on family, forgiveness, and the bonds that unite us. Hilarious and poignant by turns, this novel resonates long after finishing.
Talented Emily Giffin  returns following (2014) The One and Only with another gripping tale FIRST COMES LOVE  --the powerful bonds of family, and at the heart, being true to yourself.
An avid fan of Giffin  (having read all her books, starting with her first to the latest), of sisters, marriage, motherhood, family, sibling struggles and challenges.
The two had been dating for more than a year; however, this was her first visit to Atlanta, as well as meeting his parents and sisters.Daniel was the golden child.
Meredith, a lawyer, in Atlanta married to Daniel’s childhood best friend, Nolan for almost seven years.
With the anniversary of their brothers death coming up, Josie and Meredith decides it's about to time to grow up and say goodbye to their brother.
Not forever, but they need to start moving on from that terrible day sooner rather than later.I really enjoyed reading about Josie and Meredith throughout the book.
I have a feeling I've read a book before and it had a mom going on a vacation without her kids and I still don't know how I feel about that either.It's probably because I'm not a mom and have 0 kids.
who knows?!Overall, it was a cute book.
I would say it was a good read. Each chapter represents a sisters thoughts and opinions about what is currently going on in their lives.
Meredith is living the ideal life, she has a great paying job, a 4 year old daughter she adores and the perfect husband.
It's told in alternating perspectives between the two sisters which I think strengthened the story in the long run.
Meredith was very unlikeable and Josie was very whiny but I like how they both developed as time went on.
The relationship between Gabe and Josie was also refreshing and I loved how it depicted a true PLATONIC friendship between a boy and girl, which I rarely see in books.
Even Josie saying something on the phone like, "I guess I'll let you go." was enough to bring out a bitchy response from Meredith.And then there was Josie's decision to have a baby on her own.
Another thing I really didn't understand was that Meredith said Josie's baby would eventually become HER burden and that Josie was not ready to be a mother because she wasn't responsible at all.
It seemed like Meredith and Josie used his death as an excuse for every bad decision they ever made and I didn't buy it.
Then there was Josie acting like a brat about Gabe's girlfriend, Leslie.
