https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/459881.Magic_Cottage_Das_Haus_auf_dem_Land
easy to read and not particularly painful to get through...
Herbert is a real professional: the screws are tightened expertly, our two leads are sympathetic & realistic (although one of them is a wee bit off), the mysteries unfold at a good pace, creepy supernatural goings-on abound, some enjoyable twists & turns pop up, and of course a mysterious & possibly threatening figure lurking on the edge of things appears.here is what i did not like:(1) boring cult action.
perhaps i just don't like reading about creepy cults.
or perhaps i am just against Love?(3) when the horror hits...
Published in 1986, this James Herbert novel is a lot of fun.Herbert had the talent to write very different types of stories.
The Magic Cottage was not a disappointment.A fun, slow burning story about a loving couple wanting to get away from things and instead ending up in the middle of things.
Strange happenings at their new cottage in the country, happenings that they are slow to pick up on, lead up to an all out crazy ending that I enjoyed.
I had a lot of fun with this book, even though the pacing was a little slow.
Recommended to fans of slow burning horror, James Herbert, and haunted houses.
Also a very good book from the late James Herbert. A chocolate box cottage. A beautiful setting. The dream home. Magical forest and a cult. Loved this book by a great British Author.👍🐯
This book was an absolute delight, a thrilling and exciting story from its nicely understated beginning straight down to its boombastic final showdown and picture perfect ending.
Classic Herbert, to take on a what could have been yet another young couple buys the house in the remote area(the subject is actually referenced in a book in an awesomely meta way), all is not as it seems and make it so clever, unique original and fun.
Horror genre has really lost one of its greats with James Herbert's passing and this book is an excellent showcase of his talents.
I have never read anything by James Herbert, and was very intrigued with the premise of The Magic Cottage: A young couple are strangely drawn to a crumbling, oddly charming house in the country.
After moving in, they find that their assessment of the delapidated condition of the cottage and gardens was in error....perhaps.What happens after they move in is sometimes charming, sometimes spooky, and sometimes downright creepy.
I probably would have given the book 4 stars had the final chapters not been so downright "goofy" (for lack of a better term).Not a bad investment of time for those readers who enjoy horror on a mild scale, but could have used a better ending IMO.
This book was very different from The Fog. It was more subtle and was a slow read at first, but began to pick up after the halfway point. The way it was narrated, like someone telling you a story was neat. The descriptions of the quaint little cottage out in the woods with beautiful scenery was wonderful to escape to. As the story progressed, I got caught up in how fast it moved. It got quite sinister, dark, and evil. I loved it! I would definitely recommend to those who like subtle horror and are Herbert fans.
I totally saw everything described in this book in great detail.
Herbert captured the perfect description of a magic cottage deep in the woods.
I expected more things to occur inside and around the cottage and towards the end, I was just left with a wanting.Totally creepy story, I was creeped out by the "SYNERGIST TEMPLE" in the woods.
Freaky, crazy..This is why I love James Herbert.
He can make me see it, feel it, smell it, and just completely pull you along into this magical journey that usually doesn't let up till the end.
My fav read by Herbert is, "Secrets of Crickley Hall".
My sister recommended James Herbert and decided that since she thought I'd not have the heart nor stomach for horror (as I'm a fan of fantasy and dislike seeing anything gruesome or bone chilling freaky), that starting me off with The Magic Cottage would be a good first choice.
I hoped that some great evil wizard will arise from the cult leader, someone who was hundreds of years old, but nothing, just a lame excuse for a man with tricks.
First of all I am a MASSIVE James Herbert fan.
At first this book was really slow moving and I started it over many times before finally reading it through.
Anywho, as i said it was slow to start off but at it gets into it and the two main characters Mike and Midge begin having suspicions about the Magic (capital M for a reason) it really turns into your typical James Herbert page turner hard to put down book.
¡Por Dios, así se termina un libro!Herbert sí sabe cómo concluir una historia... Fue espectacular. Cuando creés que ya no puede ser mejor, el autor te redobla la apuesta. El último cuarto del libro fue un huracán. De los mejores finales que leí.Es una lástima que sea tan pesado y repetitivo hasta la página 220, aproximadamente.
We all have a favourite book that we can read again and again and this is one of mine. I have no idea why I love it so much, but Jame Herbert's story telling is an inspiration to me. The Cottage in the story is my dream home and I love opening the pages and climbing straight back into that world.
I love this book!
One of my top 5 Herbert books
The bath scene is brilliant
Ugh. The novel, Herbert's 12th, isn't particularly bad - it's readable, and there's the bones of something decent there - but it never really rises above the stock, the pat.
Herbert's dead, so he probably won't care, but potential readers might: there's nothing thoroughly offputting about the novel, but taken together it all seems a bit like a crap pantomime - worth seeing through, but fairly forgettable as soon as you've done so.
This was the first Herbert I'd read, so I didn't know what to expect from it.
From the reviews I've read since completing the book, it seems I can probably expect more from his other writings.
The main problem I have with Kubrick’s ‘The Shining’ is that in the opening scenes, before they even reach the hotel, Jack Nicholson already appears to be quite mad.
The creepiness is allowed to build to a conclusion which is rip-roaring and makes sense within the story, whilst at the same time being completely unexpected.The last Herbert novel I read was ‘The Spear’ and that was truly dreadful.
An interesting story where a modern couple find a perfect fairytale cottage - however there is an unexplainable power within that can only be described as magical.
Magic is a constant theme throughout the book and is explored well and ties in with the modern context.
For example - character actions, situations and revelations were explained by the main character narration that were a little too insightful for a character perhaps.
All in all, a nice little frolick into magic in the modern era.
I've always found Herbert a bit hit and miss.
The lead male character is a session musician so I also had a lot in common with him and the bit where he goes to record some tracks with Phil Collins did make me smile.The only criticism I have about the ending is that it all happens so fast when 'it' does happen.
It's a lot like information (and description) overload, but I enjoyed the journey and the writing was fluid and unpretentious.
Time to give Mr. Herbert another chance I think.
This is a story about Mike and Midge who move into their dream cottage, Gramarye - and soon begin to discover that things are not as they originally seemed.
There is something off-beat and disturbing about Gramarye, Mike can feel it, Midge seems oblivious to it.
Animals come into the house and eat out of their hands, they befriend a little red squirrel who comes in daily and chatters away at them.
Thus begins the battle of wills while Mike tries to save Midge from the cult and his new home from their possession.
As always.....Herbert ROCKS!!!
This was my first ever Herbert.
I read it nearly 20 years ago and decided to give it another go.
Although I still remembered the story somewhat, this 2nd time around was so refreshing....like revisiting a good friend.
So sad to think that there will be no more....the death of this remarkable author means that there is a lot less magic in the world.
Read the Magic Cottage, my friend...and let the wonder of it fill your soul for a while.
Trust me, you will be hooked on Herbert for life!
I was quite sucked in by this story, maybe living in an old cottage myself (although not in some woods) appealed to me.
This story built up quite nicely and I have to say at one point I caught something moving out the corner of my eye, and my heart started thudding.
It all built up to a crescendo that just didn't quite work for me, I got the twist about half way though so that didn't suprise me and I'd of liked the result to be slightly different.
Really enjoyed this book.Storytelling at it's best.
Loved this book, even though it scared the he'll out of me.
Hokey, hackneyed and cliched, but a huge amount of fun. The climactic scenes were priceless.
This is the book I wish I could have written.My all time favourite book. I've read it many times and still love it. It's dark, mysterious, enticing.... Just a great book.A magical book.
De Herbert espero todo lo que me emociona: terror ochentero con buena ambientación propia de un autor inglés, casas encantadas con muchos ruidos y sangre chorreando por paredes, presencias y sombras que te miran por la rendija de la puerta de tu habitación mientras duermes con una tormenta que te despierta cada dos por tres… Busco y busco con ansia sus libros, y los compro aunque tenga que pegar sus hojas con cola blanca.
Lo leo y es algo simplón.Aquí prometía una granja encantada.
Para llegar al final y que en 50 páginas suceda todo, siendo el “terror” que no esperaba.
This is very typical James Herbert a slow and gentle meander through the opening half , taking time to introduce the characters and the setting dropping a few subtle hints to paths the possibilities that might be explored.
I thought this started on the slow side , Mike and Midge are likeable enough characters both creative and seeking the peacefulness of an isolated cottage in the countryside.
It's all so fairytale setting with the friendly wildlife the dark gloomy forrest lurking in the background, the fairytale theme to be further explored in the magnificent "Once".
was a good book I couldn't put it down
Top Read 2017 * * * * *Tired of the hustle and bustle of the city of London, young couple Mike and Midge are determined to find a home that offers them a brighter - and quieter - future.
I could be considered a nick-picky reader, or downright pessimistic; someone who doesn't dish out top ratings all too often because even the tiniest things can impact my enjoyment, so it's a surprise and a special occasion when I find something that ticks all the right boxes.
There's a particular scene that takes place in the loft of Gramarye, involving Mike and a large number of bats.
Terrible, hackneyed story with sometimes very poor writing. It wasn't scary, it wasn't particularly magical, and I'm genuinely shocked that some people thought Herbert's writing in this book was Tolkienesque (!) We abandoned it after the cringeworthy/disturbing line in which the main character states his wife looked "ten years old" and his thoughts were "criminal" i.e. paedophiliac- no thanks.
