https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1055477.The_Chinese_Maze_Murders
On the way after a long, slow, dull journey to his new post in Lan-fang, just over the next ridge, the astute magistrate Judge Dee from the Imperial capital, Chang'an (Xi'an), has four horse drawn carts , three wives , an unknown number of children, four trusted lieutenants, drivers, servants and ten highwaymen who ambush the entourage, in a small valley from the cover of a forest, below the hills of remote northwestern China, on the border with barbarian hordes who roam across the river.
In this one, Van Gulik regains some of the needed pacing and action of The Chinese Gold Murders, and had me intrigued from chapter one.Judge Dee has a new post, a border city under periodic threat from the Uyghur tribes.
His loyal servants, technically 'reformed,' included a clever thief, Tao Gan, and two former highwaymen from The Chinese Gold Murders, Ma Joong and Chiao Tai.Done in semi-traditional style and based on a legendary figure, Judge Dee, these stories feel somewhat like The Brothers Grimm starring Agatha Christie's Hercule Poirot.
Like Grimm, the story can be a bit bloody, as traditional Chinese mysteries included punishment of the villain.
It depicts Judge Dee, based on a real and most interesting person called Di Renjie, who was a magistrate in Tang China and who even served the infamous Empress Wu as a Chancellor.The book starts off with Judge Dee, his family and his servants, all moving from the Imperial Capital to an outlying border town, where there is a constant threat of attacks from Uyghur tribes.
In typical Chinese storytelling tradition, Gulik has explored all these different threads to the tale and weaved them into a single narrative without it appearing disjointed.
The depictions of Chinese life in this period appear authentic, and the characters are all very interesting.
Judge Dee wades through a maze of murders, motivations and mendacity to unravel three tricky mysteries and foil a barbarian invasion in the process. I particularly liked the depiction of the old hermit who gives Dee various gnomic but crucial clues and makes the formidable magistrate briefly consider giving up the hurly-burly of public service for a life of rural seclusion.
And so they do!The Chinese Maze Murders marks one of the first of 16 novels, novellas, and short-story collections in which Van Gulik, inspired by court cases and his own imagination, actually penned the plots.
(Although himself Dutch, Van Gulik wrote these novels in English, which may also account for the formal phrasing.) However, the plots are very enjoyable, and the books act as a window into a far-off time and a very different sensibility.
I can particularly recommend the first book, The Celebrated Cases of Judge Dee, and Van Gulik's own The Chinese Bell Murders, The Haunted Monastery, The Emperor's Pearl, The Red Pavilion, and the short-story collection Judge Dee at Work: Eight Chinese Detective Stories.
It's a historical mystery set in China's Tang Dynasty around 700 AD and featuring Judge Dee. He's a historical figure with the kind of legendary reputation of a Sherlock Holmes as a detective.
Robert van Gulik first wrote this in Chinese for Asian audiences, then translated it into English--actually to facilitate it being translated into Japanese before ever thinking to put this before a Western audience.
Regardless, Van Gulik's novel and series has the quality of the best historical fiction: Judge Dee and the people surrounding him feel very much of their own place and time--not our own.
The Chinese Maze Murders is my absolute favourite in the Judge Dee series, which spans 17 books in all - including Van Gulik's original translation of Dee Gong An and two short story-collections.
Invariably, the five books in the "main" series (The Chinese Gold, Lake, Bell, Maze and Nail Murders), are preceded by a chapter written from the viewpoint of a Ming dynasty official, merchant, or other personage, who, following a ghostly encounter of some sort, recounts one of the specific Judge Dee mysteries.
This is officially my first review on GoodReads!!!
It is also one of my first reviews ever.
I have owned this book for at least 3 or 4 years and never even read the back cover or needless to say, cracked it open.
The solutions to the criminal cases were also greatly interesting (and reading about the Chinese sources in the end made it ever more so).The foreword, postscript and Chinese sources all added interesting insight into the book.
The foreword made me think about Chinese culture more while reading (which was also a great aspect to this book considering I know next to nothing about Chinese writing/culture).
1st in a series of books about an ancient Chinese magistrate Dee Goong An,who, with his entourage, solves crimes. In this particular installment, there are 3 subplots: Murder in the Sealed Room, a missing testament, and last but not least, a story that features a girl without a head. Most interesting is the way the story is told and the supernatural elements. Very very good.
Pāris grāmatu par senās Ķīnas tiesnesi Dī jau biju lasījusi pirms kādiem padsmit gadiem.
Sākumā van Guliks iztulkoja un izdeva oriģinālu senās Ķīnas detektīvu par tiesnesi Dī, bet vēlāk "pēc lasītāju vēlēšanās" tapa vesela sērija jau paša Gulika sacerētu darbu (sižeti gan aizgūti no Ķīnas literatūras un citiem dokumentiem), kas pielāgoti rietumnieku gaumei (piemēram, pārceļot noziedzinieku atmaskošanu uz grāmatas beigām), tomēr ievēro vairākas ķīniešu seno detektīvu tradīcijas: tā piemēram, izmeklētājs vienmēr ir apgabala tiesnesis (tiesnesis Dī ir reāls 7.
personāžs), vienlaicīgi tiek izmeklētas vairākas (trīs - četras) lietas, kas var būt, bet var arī nebūt savstarpēji saistītas, grāmatā noteikti jāapraksta arī soda izpildes process u.c. Stāsti par tiesnesi Dī, manuprāt, varētu patikt klasiskā britu detektīva cienītājiem.
A highly enjoyable detective set in ancient China.
He bases his stories on an old Chinese genre of writing detective stories, which revolve around the magistrate: a government official who was in charge of justice.
Gulik has done his research and his knowledge of ancient China, as well as the original Chinese detective stories, shows.
Furthermore, the afterword explains how Gulik used several narrative elements in the original Chinese detective stories.
My only squabble with the book is that the language, especially in the beginning, was a tad old fashioned and therefore it took some time to get into the story.
Unlike modern western mysteries where the detective has one case to solve in the course of the story, Judge Dee solves several, mostly unrelated, cases.
As a result the feel of the story is more "slice of life" than "dramatic event", which I enjoyed.Potential readers should be aware that the story does reflect the culture of the times, both that of the writer and that of Judge Dee. There is a lot of casual violence in the day to day life of the characters, torture is a valid way to obtain confessions, and any executions will be detailed at the end.
Two books in one of my favorite mystery series, the Judge Dee novels, about a 7th-century Chinese magistrate. Robert van Gulik evokes the setting well. Even though he knew much more about ancient China than the reader, he never pulls a bad sci-fi move such as having the characters tell each other the social context they should already know. Van Gulik was also great at physical settings (here, a 200-year-old monastery during a summer thunderstorm and Lan-fang, a town on the northwest border that the trade route has passed by.)
Starts off coming into new jurisdiction to find a tyrant has overtaken the town, is he worried...no. He is more concerned with solving an open 8 year old case than he is with the tyrant. He handles the tyrant easily and goes on to solve 2 murders. Love the look into life in China in the 7th century, what they eat, clothes, customs and punishments.
This is the story of Judge Dee who tries to solve three interconnected mysteries in the 16th century in China. Excellent reading.This e-book is available free at the University of Chicago Press:http://www.press.uchicago.edu/books/f...
Upřímně, jako detektivka to není nic moc (taky byly tyhle věci napsané někdy v padesátých letech minulého století) ale utáhne to tempo (jako tam jsou tři případy, tak se pořád něco děje), atmosféra a doba.
Z knih je cítit určitá nelítostnost - třeba když soudce Ti vysvětluje truchlícími otci, že je to taky jeho chyba, že je jeho dcera mrtvá, že ji měl okamžitě najít manžela a nenechat jí jen tak volnou...
a mohli se mlátit, ale nesměli umřít, to by pak z toho byl malér) a tragické osudy postav (jak většina případů končí smrtí, obvykle na mučidlech, není o tragédie nouze).
Takže jo, je to staré, z pohledu detektivek jednoduché, ale pořád čtivé.
Initially, this novel went against the grain for me because I wanted to read stories written in the Ming Dynasty period, and this was a modern author writing about those times.
Van Gulik included a lot of interesting detail, and the novel was well researched.
I guess I was also convinced to read it because Van Gulik had written so many other novels set in China, so I figured he must know what he's talking about.
I am not a crime novel reader normally either, and so can't really comment on his contribution to the genre.
An excellent re-read of an old series.
I did not expect to bawl my eyes out in this book. Gosh, Chiao Tai made me cry buckets!
Cukup menarik. Terutama alurnya yang menyuguhkan pengusutan berbagai kasus secara paralel. Full review menyusul!!
Jadi teringat kata-katanya Mrs. Oliver, "old sins cast long shadow." #hadeh #nggaknyambung(view spoiler)[Chien Mow, si bandit, berniat menguasai kota dan menjadi raja kecil.Tuan muda Ding menuduh Woo Feng membunuh ayahnya (Mantan Jend Ding dipaksa turun dari jabatannya akibat laporan dari Jend Woo - ayah Woo Feng)Janda muda Loo menuntut setengah warisan Mantan Gubernur Loo dari putra sulungnya, Loo Kee.Kepala jaga Fang meminta pertolongan pengadilan mencari putrinya yang hilang.
Ternyata gadis itu adalah anak gadis Fang yang sedang hilang.Tuan muda Ding juga punya kekasih rahasia.Loo Kee menuduh Janda muda Loo telah berzina, dan putranya bukan keturunan mantan Gub Loo. Janda muda Loo menyerahkan bukti warisan berupa lukisan....Suku-suku perbatasan berencana menyerang kota, hanya menunggu tanda dari si otak makar....Jadi, misterinya adalah:1.
The author was in the Dutch diplomatic service in Asia during WWII and decided to translate an old Chinese mystery novel based on stories of the historical Judge Dee Renjie.
The original book, the Dee Gong An, was written by an anonymous author in 17th century Ming-dynasty China, and recounted three cases as they were solved by the main character and his assistants.
After this translation saw some success on the market van Gulik decided to try his hand on writing mysteries in the same style as the original book, which makes this book, and all of the 14 or so that followed, basically fanfiction.
Robert van Gulik’s series of 16 Judge Dee mysteries are set in China sometime during the era of the Ming Dynasty (1368-1644: Goodreads sets the novel in 670, but that's wrong.) They’re grounded in his intensive scholarly study of ancient Chinese detective stories, some of which he has translated into English.
The book’s historical basisIn a postscript to the book, Van Gulik explains that the character of Judge Dee is loosely based on a Chinese magistrate who achieved fame as a detective some hundreds of years before the Ming Dynasty.
Dabei wird auch das Formelhafte mitübernommen: Die Charaktere haben alle ihre klaren Rollen, die Erzählstruktur entspricht dem typischen Detektivromanschema mit einer langsamen Hinarbeitung zur überraschenden Auflösung durch den klaren, unbeugsamen, unbestechlichen Geist des Richters Di, mit Hilfe seiner loyalen Untergebenen, die die Drecksarbeit für ihn erledigen.Man erkennt sofort, dass Van Gulik ein China-Insider war - jeder Kenner chinesischer Literatur entdeckt viele Versatzstücke, Motive und Beschreibungen, die in originalen Texten allgegenwärtig sind: Von der Prügelstrafe über die (wenig beneidenswerte) Situation der Frauen bis hin zur alles beherrschenden Bürokratie erkennt der Leser eine liebevolle Homage ans alte China.
The Chinese Maze Murders, the first of Robert Van Gulik's Judge Dee Mystery series, published in 1956.
And, no kidding: these are the tales of Lan-fang's new newly arrived District Magistrate who is detective, prosecutor and judge in T'ang Dynasty China -- roughly 670 AD.
In this first outing, Judge Dee arrives in the city, cleans up corruption, solves multiple murders and is confronted by an overwhelming invasion by barbarians from north.
99: "Chien stared at the judge with burning eyes."Last sentence: "He swung himself in the saddle and rode back to the city." From Wikipedia: The Chinese Maze Murders is a detective novel written by Robert van Gulik and set in Imperial China.
It is a fiction based on the real character of Judge Dee (Ti Jen-chieh or Di Renjie - chin: 狄仁傑), a magistrate and statesman of the Tang court, who lived roughly 630–700.
This was the first of the fictional mystery stories written by Robert van Gulik.
Judge Dee and his judicial entourage come to town to replace the current magistrate only to find him deceased. His investigations turn up an intrigue involving the family of a Chinese gang family as well as a number of shady family members. Using his reasoning, Judge Dee discerns the problems and brings order to the municipality. The investigation is interesting to follow, and the fates of the perpetrators are quite medieval. An easier read than most Judge Dee stories.
This is one of the famous Judge Dee mysteries based on an historical character from the Tang Dynasty.
The Chinese Maze Murders presents Judge Dee with three mysteries to solve ( a conceit used in ancient Chinese mysteries) shortly after he arrives in a remote border town, not unlike one you might find in the American West at one time.
Judge Dee arrives with his entourage and immediately begins to rescue the town from the villains, solve the trio of murders and mete out justice, such as it was in the Tang Dynasty times.
I do like the stories and the cultural setting, which back then were rather exotic to me.The books read fast; however, I do find that the characters are rather one-dimensional and not very much developed.
Likely, this is on purpose though.Also, the translation into German is at times a bit "archaic" - but again, maybe this was done on purpose to linguistically reflect the fact that the stories take place in China's past.
Maybe I will look for an English language version in a used-book store.Still liked the book (or I wouldn't have finished it) after so many years, and I will re-read a few more of the series.
However, my fear disappeared after the first chapter, which I thoroughly enjoyed.The Dee novels, written by the Dutch author Robert Van Gulik during the 1950s and '60s, are set in China during the Tang Dynasty, and the actual Judge Dee (Ti Jen-Chie) lived from 630-700 AD.
I found the latter quite enjoyable as they helped me visualize the characters.According to the author, in the Chinese tradition of mystery novels, the hero must solve three separate mysteries that occur during the same time.
While Judge Dee is solving these three cases, he also must deal with a possible invasion of his walled city by tribes from the north.A satisfying read.
