https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/5452.Girls_in_Pants
Maybe 4.5 stars?I think this is my favorite book of the series so far.
It's hard to tell because the first book packs such a hard punch right off the bat.
But I didn't realize how little I liked book 2 until book 3 walked in and brought back that intensity!
It's made more powerful because of all the history I now have with these girls and their lives.I still just don't enjoy the format of this book, and I keep getting stuck on that.
But I feel like the writing has vastly improved since book 1.
What kind of camp assigns a male and female councelor to do an overnight trip with 10-14 year old boys and has them share a tent without the campers in it?
I must be a bad person, but I was seriously hoping that David (Carmen's mom's husband) was having an affair.
I was seriously thinking that Carmen and Win would get to Trenton or wherever he was, and find him with another woman.
But no, of course, these books are too good for that.
She was not predictable, and she changed a lot as a person throughout the book.
But sometimes life offered you the opportunity to put it right.”I do not like young adult books much anymore, especially contemporary young adult, and especially young adult contemporary coming of age stories with romance (whew, that was a mouthful).
That seemed like a sad thing to be good at.”If I was a teenager reading these books right now - they would be my holy grail of books.
But as I am not a teenager anymore, I just appreciate these books for what they are - a really good, proper young adult coming of age story.
And her story arc in this book was so, so good.
Loved rereading this book! This is about the summer before college and we see Bridget, Tibby, Lena and Carmen grow up a lot and figure out what they want. Loved, loved, loved :)
This book takes place during the summer after their senior year of high school, and I actually got choked up when I read the second sentence in this section: "But if you're me, you realize that life as we've known it is over.
I'm sure I found it more touching because my dad isn't alive any more, but still -- it was great reading.I don't think I can give much more of a review without giving spoilers, so I'll end with this: I loved this book!
If I had a teenage daughter, I'd want her to read these books and then discuss them with me.
Toujours une aussi bonne lecture. J'ai adoré suivre la suite de leurs aventures et les bouleversements de leurs vies. Une grande étape va être franchie par les 4 amies avec les peurs qui l'accompagne. Un récit encore une fois émouvant et très facile à lire.
I had some issues with Book #2, but really wanted to see what happened next, so I moved on to Book #3.
I seriously want to slap everybody in this book.
Carmen is still terribly upset when anybody has something going on in her life that doesn't revolve around her, and proceeds to act like a very small child.
Lena and Tibby are moping (*eyeroll* - not very convincingly).
actually, Bee was the only character I liked here.
She's the only character who has grown and changed and isn't acting like an idiot anymore.
For the rest of them, UGH.(Will I read Book 4?
*more eyerolling*)
This time though after creating a friendship they pursue a relationship together.
Despite their disputes Carmen ends up caring for Valia and persuades the Kaligaris to let Valia return to her beautiful, Greek island.
Carmen and a boy, Win, develop a strange relationship which Carmen feels guilty about because she thinks she is giving this false impression of her being some saint who volunteers all the time when really she thinks of herself as a pretty awful person.
Okay, Brashares, you should have quit while you were ahead.
I love the descriptive writing style, but it doesn't make up for what's lacking.
It seems as if Brashares was forced to write this book in a limited amount of time.
The characters get what they want with very little effort, the events are predictable and too much is said instead of shown.
I could go on.The first book in this series is absolutely worth reading, but the rest are not.
Really, nothing so incredible happens to the characters that a reader is missing out by skipping the rest of the series.
I loved this book!! Such a great story!! Glad that carmen went to the college she wanted too!!
I don't feel the need to do a full review so here are some random thoughts.* For the third book/summer in a row Bridget is away from the other girls.
In the first book they were all apart but here especially it felt like one story about the other three girls...
and then another story about Bridget.* Lena showed some growth here that I was applauding.
Go Lena.* Tibby has always been a favorite (I can't help but love her cynical/sarcastic personality) but her pushing Brian away had me annoyed with her.
Carmen, Lena, and Bridget all struggled with overcoming their past unhealthinesses (yup, that’s the word I’m using).
Tibby struggled in the area the most, but even she was attempting to shed past ideals and behaviors.
This book FOCUSED on the development of health.IV.
(Style, plot, characters, ease of reading, pace, world-building.) Brilliant.
The characters are relateable and likable and their struggles are reflections of our lives.
I also love that Brashares is tackling typically final book issues in the middle of a series!V.
I struggled to get into it because it hits with emotional intensity from the get-go, but once I got into it, I read until completion.
In this book we follow Carmen, Bridget, Tibby and Lena to their "last" summer.
Lena struggles with going after her dream and trying to not piss off her family.Bridget goes to summer camp again.Tibby tries to cope with change and with finding her path.The book is a quick read as were the other ones.
It is again a bit weird that all of them struggle at the same time and experience happiness at the same time.
With Carmen I was a bit irritated that her "love interest" from the previous book only got mentioned in one sentence but she met another guy very quickly.
Hmmm, I really enjoy this series but this installment seemed a bit weepy and needy. The focus of the third book is avoidance, which can get annoying at times but ultimately you know all will be alright. I think that some parts could have been left out and at one point all of the characters seemed to blend together until I would walk away and come back, completely confused as to who I was reading about. All in all, not my favorite but I still like the series.
At the end of book 1, Eric made her lose her spark.
So book 2 was all about her learning to love herself again.
Now, the Bee I fell in love with in book 1 was back!
Especially with the little kids (like Katherine).Tibby didn't have her usual spunk.
Which meant she couldn't accept that Brian loved her, she couldn't look after Katherine and Nicky like they deserved, she couldn't get into her film making, and she couldn't do anything that made her slightly happy.
But with that sweet ending, it looks like it'll stay just as amazing.
I want to go back in time so I’m young enough to hang out with them and then I want us to all grow up together so they can help me understand things like mortgages and my 401k.
Although, obviously, there is some overlap, because Ann Brashares knows you just want to read about these BFF(s) 4EVA!!!!1!!1!!!(I’m sorry for that.)Bridget goes to a summer soccer camp, where she’s a coach this time, and runs into Eric, the boy she was obsessed with (and did sex with) in the first book.
Most of the time I wanted to tell her to shut up and stop acting like a brat.
We’re headed off to start our real lives."This is the first book I have read in this series.
This book takes place their last summer together before college.I found myself liking this book.
I started the book and could not put it down.
Each chapter was narrated by each of the girls and really showed what the summer was like for them.This caused one of the problems for me though.
The Pants had a very minor role in this book and the focus was solely on the girls.
I wanted to learn more about the pants and how they affected the summer.
This book is from Tibby's point of viewThe sisterhood of the Traveling Pants graduates from high school and spends their last summer before college learning about life and themselves.So I am reading the third book, and again Carmen is killing me, she just spoiled everything. I just finished and I am really happy for Carmen's choice on Win and Williams, and for Tibby and Brian, and Bee and Erik and Lena for once doing what she is good at. But I don't want the series to end.
I listened to this on audio for the read along #pantsalong. I enjoyed the fact that the girls have all matured a bit since the last two books. It's the summer before they go to college. But without spoiling the book I felt that some of the storylines were a bit unrealistic and we don't see much of the pants in this book. The storyline that I enjoyed the most was Carmen's mothers. Looking forward to reading the next book.
This book surprised me a little bit.
I mean I didn't hate the second book.
But it just made me feel like this shouldn't have been turned into a series.
I mean it was cute and adorable, but it was just...
I did like it though.
And I did enjoy reading it very much.
There are some parts that were rather hastily put in that should have been discussed a little more for context.
All in all, it was a cute book.
I have been enjoying the book and I will finish reading the series.
These books all blended together in my head over the past years, but this installment is again a nice one, of which I forgot quite a bit! I might be cliché but I really liked some of the life-changing things that happened.
Yep, still my favorite book in this series. These characters have grown so much!
Tibby spends the book floating into a relationship with Brian that she doesn't actually seem to want.
Bee spends the book floating through coaching at soccer camp and OH MY GOD NO WHY WOULD YOU WANT TO BE FRIENDS WITH/GET INTO A RELATIONSHIP WITH THE GUY WHO YOU LOST YOUR VIRGINITY TO BEFORE YOU WERE READY AND YOU ENDED UP IN A YEAR-LONG DEPRESSION AS A RESULT????
Speaking of Carmen's mother being pregnant, you cannot HONESTLY tell me that (view spoiler)[when she goes into labour and Carmen decides to go off and find David that the ONLY option of someone to stay with Christina was fucking Tibby.
I enjoyed the movie of the first book, so I picked up the second and third books to read.
I got them in the french translation because I figured that I might as well be learning something if I'm going to read fluffy books.The second book was ok and managed to keep my attention, but this one was a total flop.
I kept reading online how all the books are so much different from one another and that this one is the best one of all.
It is the summer before college and there are a lot of life lessons and self-discoveries.
Lena learns to fight for what she wants and how to uncover the truth with her art - "always draw the chair." Bridget has matured a lot since her first summer with Eric and has learned how to not just focus on her wants and desires, but be more considerate towards others.
Carmen learns (finally!) not to focus on her feelings of selfishness and perceived neglect.
And Tibby learns how to open her heart and give it to others.Definitely a lot of inspiring character development and maturing!
Not as good as the first two, but I still love these books and really liked the ending in this one! I felt this book showed more of the "coming of age" story and that it is inevitable that we all at some point grow up and move on. Now on too the next book ! :)
This has been my favorite forever and is even more so now!
Why am I crying
V good.
While I still really loved this book, I did see some flaws in it. There are a handful of continuity issues, which stood out to me since I’m reading the books back to back. I also found it odd that God is mentioned so many times in this book. It felt like the author suddenly found religion. Nonetheless, this is an important installment in the series. I was surprised how much of this book I didn’t remember. I’m looking forward to rereading the (original) last book.
