https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/208146.Grandfather_s_Journey
Grandfather's Journey is the 1993 Caldecott winning picture book about the homesickness his grandfather has for both the U.
Say says he shares this same homesickness for both countries with his grandfather.
Lavishly illustrated/painted, it is Say's biographical tribute to his grandfather.
It's an illustrated story more than a comics-style "sequential art" story the one-time photographer had so admired as a young man.
I imagined some of the paintings were based on family photographs.
It's short, and sweet, and Say say he came to know his grandfather in the two year process of making the book.
I have been reading Allen Say books for the last few days and I have to admit that I have fallen in love with his style.
Here Allen Say tells the story of his grandfather who left Japan in his early age to travel the world.
After wandering for some time and seeing many people, his heart fell for San Francisco.
In a different book named  Tea with Milk, Mr. Say has illustrated the consequences of his grandfather’s departure from San Francisco.
Sadly, I did not know about this little connection between these two books and read Tea with milk first.
As someone who has taken watercolour classes, I appreciate Allen Say’s talent, and give full marks (5 stars) for the paintings in Grandfather’s Journey.
In Grandfather’s Journey, Allen Say retells his grandfather's story of immigration from Japan to the United States and later return to his homeland.
As a picture book, Grandfather’s Journey’s targeted audience is 4-8 years of age, but I feel the story is too sophisticated for that age group.
Pre-school children could certainly appreciate the pictures, and while some older children could enjoy reading the story independently, others might simply enjoy a discussion about immigration, or even about being in one place while longing for another.
Allen Say's Caldecott Medal winning Grandfather's Journey as a story, as an account, reads sweetly and generally quite pleasantly, but also with much thought-provoking potential emotionality, and even a palpable bit of potential sadness (especially to and for those of us who are immigrants or emigrants ourselves and have personally experienced what the text shows and oh so very clearly presents, namely equal amounts of love and passion for both our countries of origin and the countries to which we have immigrated, often not really knowing exactly who we are, or where we belong, straddling worlds, languages, cultures).

I do wonder whether I’d have rated this book 5 stars if I hadn’t just read the remarkable book Drawing from Memory.The illustrations are gorgeous and evocative of their places.
Its very few words make it suitable for the youngest children, and for all ages.
Not a word is wasted.
4 ½ starsHighly recommended to children and families who’ve experienced moves or who have friends who’ve moved, or traveled, and to anyone who’s ever been homesick.I’m tempted to put this on my san-francisco shelf, but I don’t know if a sufficient amount of the experiences take place there to add it to that shelf.
A standalone biography of a grandson's remembrances of his grandfather's life that should really get a "6".In 1994, Grandfather's Journey won the Caldecott Medal, and in 1993, it won the California Book Award Silver Medal for Juvenile.My TakeIt's beautiful yet sad.
A young man who grows older and appreciates what he has and has had.The CharactersGrandfather is the subject while his grandson, Allen Say, narrates a simple story of what he knows of his grandfather.The Cover and TitleThe cover is subdued in its khaki brown frame of an inset picture with a young grandfather standing in front of the ship's rail with the heaving ocean in the background while he's wearing Western clothes for the first time: a black homburg and double-breasted black coat that comes to his ankles.
A true classic for all ages. Profound enough for youngsters to cut their philosophical teeth on, historical enough for teachers, and simple enough for too-busy parents. And beautiful.I'm sure this is at least my third read.
This is a story about three generations of one family where the grandfather came to the USA as a young man from Japan and fell in love with the country, especially California and the San Francisco area where he finally settles.
He never does return but his grandson (the author) winds up moving to California and falling in love with it but has the same problem- whichever country he is in, he is homesick for the others.
This book is an excellent way to introduce kids to the idea of people coming from one place to the USA and loving both places.
The pictures are amazing, as you would expect for a Caldecott Medal winner, and they tell a beautiful story of the man's life, as he grows up, starts a family and passes on his story to a younger generation.
This story was selected as one of the books for the August 2012 - Traveling reads at the Picture-Book Club in the Children's Books Group here at Goodreads.
It was also featured in the October 2016 - Quarterly Caldecott discussion at the Picture-Book Club in the Children's Books Group here at Goodreads.
Allen Say's grandfather left his home of Japan to see the world.
Allen Say heard his grandfather's wonderful stories of California went to see it and he too fell in love with the land but eventually missed his homeland and had to return every now and then to stop the aching in his heart.
After that, the grandfather looks old and tired as he still aches to see California one last time.
This would be a great book to introduce immigration and different cultures to students.
This is another book that you can pair with a non-fiction book on Japan to learn more about the culture.
A young man who leaves his homeland in Japan to travel to America has some mixed thoughts.
He falls in love with it at first, but begins to miss his homeland and decides to travel back to Japan to see all the beautiful sights that he never appreciated before and to see his sweetheart.
They made their home by the San Francisco bay and ended up having a daughter.
When his daughter is grown, she leaves America to travel to Japan and raise her own family.
She loves Japan and her son grows up hearing about his grandfather who lives in America.
This boy ends up writing the story and eventually travels to America.
This is only the second book by Say that I've read, but I will be watching for others. After the kids have read some of his stories about children and Japan, I think they'll appreciate this story more than if we were to read it first.As an immigrant, Say writes, The funny thing is, the moment I am in one country, I am homesick for the other.I imagine that will ring true for many immigrants. I know it was true for my grandparents.This book is fiction; I'd like to know how much of it is autobiographical.
This Caldecott Medal winning book tells of his Grandfather's emigration to America and his eventual return to Japan, along with his wife and Daughter (whose story is told from her point of view in Say's Tea with Milk). His grandfather was torn between his love for both countries, and his plan to return to America was shattered by World War II. Exquisite watercolor paintings express the beauties of each country.
A touching story about a grandfather, his descendants, and his love for traveling. I particularly enjoyed the photograph-like illustrations and connections to California/Japan across generations.I feel that anyone could enjoy this book but older children or adults may find this book more meaningful because of the complexity of the grandfather's journey and the generational bonds.
His love for two countries started when he left Japan to go to America when he was a young man.
After some time, he went back to his village in Japan to marry his childhood sweetheart.
This book is suitable for ages 4-7 and the themes include cross-cultural experience, immigration, family relationships, and memories.The illustrations are also by Allen Say. The color tone isn't really colorful, but Japanese art tend to use a lot of browns and neutral colors.
Allen say is part of the group he is representing in the book because it's about his own family.
Grandfather’s Journey is about a grandfather who left Japan to explore the world.
He did not want to return home because he loved traveling, but he finally returned to Japan.
He married in Japan and then went back to North America.
The grandfather told him all about California.
When the narrator was grown he visited California.
He loved it there, but still visits home.This book is interpretive nonfiction.
It does not tell facts of immigration, but takes the reader on a journey with the grandfather who traveled from home to North America.
The visual elements of this book are illustrations.
In Grandfather’s Journey by Allen Say, the narrator described the conflict one feels by being from two countries.
The story started out being about his grandfather, who left his home in Japan to see the world.
She gave birth to a son, the narrator of the story.
The grandfather always told him tales of California, and one day the narrator visited California for himself.
Grandfather’s Journey is a poignant story with lavish illustrations.
I related to the grandfather’s sense of adventure, and to the narrator’s longing for his two homes.
I also liked how Say narrated this story as a young boy telling his grandfather’s story, and at the end being able to experience the same emotions his grandfather felt about California and where they are originally from.
I think a lot of kids can relate to this whether if they moved from country to country or state to state.
Reading this warmed my heart because I too moved from country to country and felt the same exact emotions.
All in all, this book is a fairly easy read with a sentence or two per page.
Summary: Grandfather’s Journey, by Allen Say, depicts the story of a man from Japan journeying to America.
The man eventually journeys back home.
Evaluation: Say did a beautiful job portraying all of the emotions that a person might feel after immigrating to a different country.
Personally, the story reminded me of my father who came to the United States from Vietnam.
Teaching Idea: I would have the students create a graphic organizer to compare and contrast the culture of America to the culture of Japan.
The students would have to organize their ideas and form it into an essay.
I don't think I am especially weepy right now, but this book brought me to tears. Maybe it is because my mother is an immigrant. I felt like it connected me to her. I know she has similar feelings for her country of adulthood and her country of birth/childhood. The pictures were simple and stunning. Lovely read.
The longing for other places and other people is a part of modern life. Unless you spend your whole life in one place, you will experience it. If attachment is at the root of human suffering, then understanding that suffering is perhaps a good way to understand your elders. Grandfather's Journey is a kid's book that may have more to offer older readers.
A grandson recounts the life of his grandfather in Japan and America, and how the grandfather would miss one country when in the other.
The grandson grows up in Japan but goes to visit America and stays.
Yet he, too, now misses Japan just as his grandfather had, but goes back to visit from time to time.Beautifully illustrated, this story is one in which many of us can relate to in our transient society.
It can be used in a classroom of 1st or 2nd graders to teach about heritage and how missing home is a universal feeling.I gave it 5 stars because although the story was very simple, the illustrations were very intricate and well done.
The students may struggle with understanding it from a different point of view, but the story is very heartfelt.
Through the story, the students would try to find details that are important vs details that are interesting.
Then I will read the book and let the students use sticky notes to state their ideas.
At the end of the student, we will discuss each note and explain if they are interesting or important.
Readers need to be able to pick out the important features of a story to understand the main idea or theme.
Grandfather's Journey is about a man who was born and raised in Japan but eventually moved on to explore the world.
He took her to California were they grew their family and he then to his family back to Japan.
I like how in the beginning it sounds as if the author is telling the story but towards the end you realize its the grandson telling the story himself.
I like this because when you read to young children they can put themselves in his perspective and it makes more sense to them.
I feel like its very simple but very detailed at the same time.
I really should stop buying books based on their titles.
In this picture book, the author, Allen Say, shares the story of his grandfather who was born and raised in Japan.
Again, he marries and has children, but he claims that "the moment I am in one country, I am homesick for the other" --- explaining that he crosses the ocean back and forth between Japan and the United States in order to fulfill a desire to be a part of both places.
That is to say, I can see younger children imitating the format of the book, tracing the journey of a family member -- parent, grandparent, etc, -- to this country.
A beautiful reflection on family and home and identity (and beautiful illustrations to boot!)
He left his home country to travel the world.
His ocean journey took three weeks, and when he landed he was in "the new world." He explored North America by different means of transportation, steam boats and trains.
The grandfather loved California best, the mountains and the sea.
When his daughter was almost grown, he took his family home to Japan.
There, the daughter fell in love and married.
The narrator heard many stories about California from his Grandfather.
The narrator grew and went to visit California.
The book touched on history, with references to World War II.
Allen’s grandfather leaves Japan for America or “the new world,” He shakes hands with “white,red, and yellow men” finally settling in California (San Francisco).
Allen’s grandfather was never completely at peace whether he was in America or in Japan.
In the end, Allen’s grandfather end’s up moving his entire family back to Japan but the same wonder lust is passed down to his grandson Allen.
The book also touches on the destruction of Japan by America.
As a teacher I would utilize this book to question whether or not adopting new cultural practices is detrimental to identity or whether it is necessary in order for someone to realize who they really are.
