https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/4264.Fever_Pitch
“I have always been accused of taking the things I love - football, of course, but also books and records - much too seriously, and I do feel a kind of anger when I hear a bad record, or when someone is lukewarm about a book that means a lot to me.”  No, you haven't imagined it.
Or should I say, a book about an adorably idiotic Arsenal fan.
Yet here I am reading a book about football.
Every Arsenal fan, the youngest and the oldest, is aware that no one likes us, and every day we hear that dislike reiterated.”
It is thoughtful, well-written and funny, and describes the windy path of a personal/professional life as it develops alongside and sometimes in direct relation to the game-to-game, season-to-season drama of FC Arsenal in London.Now, I am nowhere near as crazy and obsessed a Twins fan as Hornby is an Arsenal fan, but to the extent that I nonetheless have to hear questions like 'can you go a day without talking about baseball?' fairly frequently, I feel personally identified with his sometimes indignant self-defense.
On the one hand it is a highly personal look at the shortcomings of one man and (or should I say because of?) his obsession with a British football (soccer) team, seemingly so narrow in scope that I have a hard time thinking anyone but an Arsenal fan would enjoy it.
"Hey you should read this - I think you'll hate it!" Fever Pitch is Hornby relating his struggle as a die-hard sports fan (in his case soccer), and what an unmerciful, miserable, and ultimately inescapable experience it truly is.

Now I realize that it is not actually about baseball specifically- and please, never speak to me about the Americanized movie starring Jimmy Fallon because I will cry and shriek- but sometimes it's the only thing that can make me feel like part of the universe again after my brain has been completely taken over by baseball fanaticism and I need to come down.
If you like this book at all, and even if you're a Red Sox fan- no, especially if you're a Red Sox fan, do not ever watch the American movie.
Febbre a 90° è tutto quello che mi piace di Nick Hornby.
Ironico, sagace, cinico, mai superficiale, tagliente, tenero e sopratutto interessante.
Consigliatissimo se volete capire che cosa c'è dentro la testa di vostro padre, vostro zio, vostro marito o il vostro amico che per prendere un appuntamento con voi deve avere il calendario delle partite sotto mano...
Onestamente non me la sentirei di consigliare il libro a chi non è minimamente interessato al gioco con il pallone, è comunque un libro che parla solo di quello...
a queste persone consiglierei di leggere tante altre cose di Nick, perché comunque lui è uno scrittore da non perdere di vista.
Sappiate comunque che nonostante siano passati diciassette anni dal giorno nel quale questo volume d'enorme successo proiettò Hornby fra gli scrittori di fama internazionale, permettendogli di vivere del suo e di scrivere il resto dei suoi numerosi e meravigliosi romanzi, che giustamente tante sere di felicità ci dispensarono, il volume (del quale allora lessi un solo capitoletto in una rivista) non è invecchiato ed'è fresco come l'uovo che in certi pub vi servono con la birra.
It felt like the perfect time to finally revisit one of the books I've enjoyed most in my life, the memoirs of Nick Hornby, the now celebrity Arsenal fan and writer of lit-light novels that get turned in to not bad movies.Having initially read this book in 1994 at the age of 12, before my world changed in so many ways and before professional football in England changed in so many ways I was curious as to how Fever Pitch would stand the test of time and how accurate my memory of it was.
Fever Pitch does not tell me in any way that things would get better, infact it does the opposite; but what it lets me come to terms with is the fact that I will not be walking out of this relationship, that I am in it for the long term, and that I am not alone.
Fever Pitch is a riveting book written from the heart by Nick Hornby who talks of the journey that Arsenal took since he started following the English football club, and how events on the field intermingled with events in his personal life.
Fever Pitch is a book that should be read by any Arsenal fan.
I first discovered 'Fever Pitch' when I first discovered Nick Hornby years back - we read one of his novels for book club.
'Fever Pitch' is Nick Hornby's account of his life as a football fan.
Though Hornby mostly talks about players that I haven't heard about (the only known names I encountered were Bobby Charlton, Geoff Hurst, George Best, Paul Gascoigne, Gary Linekar, Pele, Johann Cruyff) - as the book covers mostly English club football from 1968 to 1992 - the descriptions of those times, the players and the matches was so beautiful and vivid, that they transported me to those times and made me feel that I was watching the scenes that Hornby was describing.

The first time I read it, I probably would have given it five stars; something about the glimpse into Hornby's world enthralled me, but then I wasn't quite as familiar with the lifestyle of being a Premiership fan as I am now.
As a result, I felt Hornby came off unintentionally judgmental during certain portions of the book, though I got the feeling that someone who has been an fan of footy in Europe for longer than I have could confirm some of the perceptions (and, to an extent, stereotypes) that he portrayed.The book is very introspective.
There is a great self-awareness at play here, and at some points I felt like Hornby was describing me instead of himself.

It makes it a bit of a slog at times, lacking the obsession (particularly with Arsenal, who are not my team) to really care about minor details.
Hornby strings together a sentence just fine, and he is candid about the many ways in which his behavior and thought processes are thoroughly ridiculous.I feel okay about Fever Pitch, but I don't know that I can recommend it to a general audience.
If you have an interest in soccer it's an interesting look at a true obsessive, and makes me feel better about my own interest in the game.
NB: I received a free copy of this book from the Goodreads First Reads Program, but that has not affected the content of my review.I wanted to like this more than I did.
And like all people with true obsessions, if you let them, they will talk in excruciating detail about the object of their obsession, and they will talk about it endlessly, sure in the knowledge that the subject of their fascination is so interesting that whoever is listening can't help but appreciate every last bit of detail they can provide you with.
Of course, it’s more than a football book, but I was really drawn to his frank admission of the very depths of his football obesession at the same time that the World Cup was reminding me how much fun and how intense it is to watch real top flight soccer.
So on to the content.It’s hard not to admire, and perhaps envy a little bit, Hornby’s obsession with football.
However, the book fairly recognizes the difficulty of cultivating such a devotion anew in this day and age.Further, Hornby’s perspective and description of soccer tragedies and the almost inappropriate way the game just goes on are so well put.A last bit of curiosity is the fact that for most of the book, the Arsenal Hornby describes is hardly the Arsenal I know.
Fever Pitch is laugh out loud funny.
I found myself laughing aloud in my living room, on the train, waiting for public transportation.
Nick Hornby details his relationship to the English football team Arsenal F.C. and yes, it's helpful if you know a little about the sport, otherwise you'd be a bit lost.
Arsenal is really a part of Hornby's life, becoming almost a character, and he details how he has to plan his social life around attending games, how his highs and lows correspond to the team's, etc.
Ovaj tekst ne mogu drugačije da čitam nego kao autoironiju koja govori o jednoj čovjekovoj osobini – biti ovisan o gluposti.
Ovdje se mogu primijeniti na djelu one Borgesove riječi „da je fudbal estetski ogavan“ odn.
„da je to najveći zločin Engleske“, što u nizu primjera Hornby i ocrtava, ali ni u jednom momentu ne isključujući sebe iz cijele te priče, nego je, on, kao pripovjedač u prvom licu, sastavni dio svega toga: „Ali eto šta je fudbal učinio meni.
Kada sam opisao fudbal kao sredstvo za usporavanje razvoja, mislio sam upravo na to.“
Most of us, Indian football fans, started watching English football from around 1996.
This is why India has lot of fans from these two clubs.For the guys like me, who started around 2003/04 season, Arsenal was all.
It will happen in time, so stop complaining.The best thing about this book was that this was written in the view of a fan.
Fever pitch, another great non-fiction book I have read this year.
If you are a football fan and following English Football for quite some time, this is a good read irrespective of whichever club you are.
Ecco, è andata così.So che sono ingiusta - il calcio mi annoia, perché leggere dunque un libro che ha questo tema come argomento?
probabilmente Hornby non si meritava una lettrice così ingrata ma mia discolpa c'è da dire che forse mi aspettavo qualcosa di meno 'settoriale' e più godibile e accessibile anche a quelle persone che non saprebbero distinguere due squadre nemmeno se una delle due fosse aliena: prendiamo per esempio "Il resto della settimana" di De Giovanni: è un libro sul calcio ma mi ha trasmesso entusiasmo e gioia, mi ha fatto sentire parte di qualcosa (....
For someone who's only background on football are a handful of Azkal games and pictures of hot shirtless football players my friends try to entice me with, I honestly loved this book.
But I'm definitely going to walk away with appreciation for Arsenal and football culture in general, deeper than my casual love for hot football players.
Fever Pitch is a tribute to football and Arsenal in all their glory, warts and all, but Nick's love (obsession??) for the game and ~journey~ with football is something anyone can relate to, whatever their fandom may be.
Football is a context where watching becomes doing — not in the aerobic sense, because watching a game, smoking your head off while doing so, drinking after it has finished and eating chips on the way home is unlikely to do you a whole lot of Jane Fonda good, in the way that chuffing up and down a pitch is supposed to.
The joy we feel on occasions like this is not a celebration of others’ good fortune, but a celebration of our own; and when there is a disastrous defeat the sorrow that engulfs us is, in effect, self-pity, and anyone who wishes to understand how football is consumed must realise this above all things.
And now I wasn't taking the train so much.And then a friend asked me to read his book, so that took precedence.
And then I wanted to review a book for a friend's website so I read that.
And then I was editing a book so I read that....And maybe just maybe, Dr. Freud, part of me didn't want to finish Fever Pitch, as it was a connection to the old place.Well...
(Though I did read John Updike's Hub Fans Bid Kid Adieu, and it was absolutely perfect.)Which is why the Fever Pitch book was ideal.
It shows how, in a city as teeming and varied as London, you can still create an identity through a community, even if it's just one that wears the same jersey as you on match days.Unfortunately for Hornby, and--I imagine--many other fans, the sporting community of twenty years ago has changed.
Hornsby's sincere admiration for fans of less dominant teams (your Nottingham Forests, Cambridge Uniteds and Wolverhamptons) is positively quaint in an age when, walking into sports shops throughout the country I could only see jerseys for Arsenal, Chelsea, Manchester United and Manchester City.Hornby's book, though academically intriguing is limited by the greatest limitation a sports fan has: sometimes the rest of the world thinks you're speaking an alien language.
One of the points that he’s made at the beginning of the book is that a true Football fan won’t remember his/her life in term of years (1968, 1969, etc.) but rather in terms of Football seasons (68/69, 69/70, etc.) nor would he remember some of the memorable events (both in personal life or world history) through the dates that they occurred, but some big match that took place around that event.
I could understand why Hornby decided to include certain matches who weren't memorable for their results but meant something to him at that time, because I felt the same way back then.I'm still interested in the game and keep on eye on the club, but in some ways I think my love of football in my early years was the start of a later obsession; a particular pop band.
In my both my love of football and the kind of 'positive obsession' for something, Fever Pitch was an ideal read for me!
I am not a football fan, and had to skip over many of Hornby's descriptions of so-and-so using this foot to score the second goal in that game which was part of that one season.
He does not take the long view, he is not detached, and his analysis comes in bits and chunks between descriptions of particular plays.
Obsessed.So if we as readers can take the long view, and be detached, then we are able to piece together the story of Hornby's development from a 12-year old whose parents are divorcing to a thirty-something who would rather miss a friend's wedding than miss a home game.
I am a huge Nick Hornby fan.
I love his sense of humor and get a warm cozy feeling whenever I read his writing.
So, I decided to pick up this book, which is a bit of a memoir focused on Hornby's obsession with football (or soccer, depending on the country).
I am not a fan of soccer, don't know the players or the teams.
Yet, I enjoyed this book.
I would definitely recommend this to anyone who loves soccer (Arenal is Hornby's team) or Hornby in general.
Not a must-read, but also not a bad way to pass the time.
Hornby managed to describe with passion and grace a period in the Arsenal history when the team was not a valuable target for support.
He listed point by point how it feels like to be supporting a mediocre team and keep loyalty to it waiting for a good day.
Every page is saturated with horror and pain of what football can bring apart from joy.The book ends with a pessimistic note and the author did not not know that Arsenal would have its moments of fame later.
However, today when it's 8 years since Arsenal won the last trophy, I feel the same.
Absolutely astonishing experience, must read if you are the Arsenal fan.
A tale of addiction and obsession, albeit not one we'd readily think of.
A very funny insight into the delusion that is being a football supporter...
no, a football fanatic, where the author lays bare all his highs, lows and personal insights while following Arsenal FC.
It's certainly a "warts and all" portrayal, as while the prose is often very witty and self-deprecating, you can see the underlining remorse (if that's not too strong a word to use) the author feels; that perhaps his obsession hasn't always been a positive in his life.
