https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/3522419-nemesis
In Hole, Nesbo has created one of Nordic Noir’s most endearing and charismatic players.Nemesis is about Blood Revenge and Vendetta and this theme is especially successful in the Nordic Noir setting.
So, after the very, very good The Redbreast Nesbo follows up with the ambitious but narratively overcomplicated Nemesis.
Nesbo, no doubt trying to recreate his great success with Redbreast, outsmarted himself, jumped the shark and got too fancy.The Ugly.Darkly charismatic, wounded protagonist - ruthless and corrupt recurring antagonist - some sub-plots to come back to and have fun with – Nesbo could be sliding into a soap opera series.
But I think I mostly didn't care for this story because I called all the twists toward the beginning of the book: both the true bank robber's identity and motives, and what really happened to Harry's love interest.
The chassis this book is built on is cookie-cutter at best.Still, the book was well-translated, and the prose flowed like Fro-Yo. Nesbø stays true to the character of Harry, and the leaps of logic in getting to the true criminals were not so bad that my suspension of belief suffered a collapse.
You'll likely not remember this book in a month's time, but it will be fun while it lasts.
Not because I actually like being different than everyone else or going against popular opinion, nor do I actually want to stand on the mountaintop and scream “All you fuckers are wrong.” Because let’s face it, it’s easy to follow everyone else, to march in line and in step, even if it sometimes means you’re headed for a cliff or the occasional mountain lion.
Not that writing is a war, but it sometimes feels that way, to get those pesky words down on paper, and then actually have others get behind the words that you have written, until they make them their own.So what does all of this mean for NEMESIS?
Yet another series I keep pushing through, hoping it will get better because I have heard so many good things.
This one fell completely flat.
The story was disjointed.
I didn't understand the relationships between the characters.
Most of the time I had no idea what was going on or why.
I spent the last 200 pages or so on autopilot feeling like it ended about 20 times but at the same time feeling like it was never going to end.
I will probably keep giving this series a shot because I still hope for a positive shift, but I am quickly losing hope!
On the cover Jo Nesbø is likened to Stieg Larsson but he is nothing like.
He just tells a great story with plenty of action and lots of great police work.
He may be flawed but he must be nice because all the best people like him and the bad ones do not.
And although he makes plenty of mistakes - he has to otherwise there would not be a story - he is always ultimately the smart one who solves the trickiest case.
Other reviewers tell me this is not his best book so I am REALLY looking forward to the rest:)
In this book Harry gets involved with two investigations: a bank heist that left a woman employee dead; and the alleged suicide of a young woman.
Harry is assigned to Anna's case and - though it's being called a suicide - the detective is sure she was murdered.
Harry's in a tricky position though: he has to investigate the killing without admitting he knew Anna....or he risks becoming a suspect himself.
And some of the characters have long discussions about the military strategies of Sun Tsu, author of the 'The Art of War.' There's a bit too much of this for my taste, and the story slows down in places.
Ο Χάρι Χόλε βρίσκεται μπλεγμένος από εκεί που δεν θα το περίμενε ποτέ, όταν μια πρώην (αλλά πολύ παλιά πρώην) αγαπημένη του βρίσκεται νεκρή και αυτός είναι ανάμεσα στους βασικούς υπόπτους, καθώς ήταν μαζί της το βράδυ πριν πεθάνει.
Η κάμερα δείχνει ότι ο ληστής – δολοφόνος κάτι της ψιθύρισε πριν την σκοτώσει, κάτι που ανάβει τα λαμπάκια του Χάρι Χόλε και τον οδηγεί μέχρι τη Λατινική Αμερική προκειμένου να συλλάβει το δράστη.
Παράλληλα, τρέχει η υπόθεση του θανάτου της Έλεν, που είχε ξεκινήσει στο προηγούμενο βιβλίο, όπου οι αναγνώστες ξέρουν περισσότερα από τον αγαπημένο μας επιθεωρητή και λαχταρούν για τη λύση της υπόθεσης.
With the Robbery Division unable to make any progress on the case, it is sent to Harry Hole and video evidence expert, Beate Lønn as a murder investigation.
After heading around the world to follow a lead in South America, Hole and Lønn appear to close the case when they find a confession in a suicide note from the teller's brother-in-law.
Nesbø offers the reader a wonderful omniscient view into this and all other storylines in this jam-packed novel with a final chapter that may bring Hole and the Prince into a massive stand-off.
Μην περιμένετε γραφή που θα σας εκτοξεύσει (αν και το βιβλίο είναι μετάφραση από την αγγλική μετάφραση, δε θα μου έκανε εντύπωση αν ο Nesbo είναι κανένας βιτρουόζος της πένας και όλη του η ομορφιά χάνεται στη μετάφραση) ξέρει όμως όλα τα κόλπα για να τραβήξει το ενδιαφέρον του αναγνώστη.Στο βιβλίο υπάρχουν τρεις βασικές υποθέσεις που συγκλίνουν και αποκλίνουν: η ληστεία της τράπεζας είναι μία καλοστημένη υπόθεση, τα στοιχεία είναι εκεί από την πρώτη σελίδα και αναπτύσσεται μέχρι τέλους επαρκώς.
Όσο για την υπόθεση του Πρίγκιππα, που εκκρεμεί από το προηγούμενο βιβλίο, εδώ προχωράει πολύ καλά αλλά ήλπιζα ότι θα έκλεινε.
I am currently on the lookout for a mystery that doesn't "end" three times before it actually ends.
Allow me to give away the entire book - It was that guy who killed the apparent suicide victim!
No, actually she killed herself after all.
That guy!
That guy!
No, that guy's brother!
No, it's a copycat & the first bank robbery was actually a murder!
I like Harry Hole, too, so as I wait for The Snowman (which I'll definitely read because I have to make sure that Waaler gets his comeuppance) to move up in my hold queue, I'll check out other books in the series.
I just couldn't get into this one. I don't think blackout alcoholics could be very good detectives. They couldn't catch a cold, let alone a master criminal. The plot line in this story gets so complicated as to become downright silly. I think I'll lay off Nesbo for a while.
Unlike most detective series novels, you really do need to read Nesbø's Harry Hole books in the correct order to get the most from them.
So if you haven't read the first in the series, The Redbreast, maybe you should do so before you read this book!Nemesis begins with grainy CCTV footage showing a masked man walking into a bank and putting a gun to a cashier's head.
As a result, Harry is temporarily attached to the Robbery Unit in a semi-detached role with a brief to pursue the case in parallel to the main investigation.Lurking somewhere at the back of all this is an event that took place in Nesbø's earlier novel, The Redbreast.
Prve dve trecine knjige su bile prilicno dobre, misteriozni pljackas banaka i u isto vreme ubica, Harijevu staru ljubav Anu pronalaze mrtvu u zaključanom stanu...
sve je zvucalo vrlo zanimljivo i vuklo te napred.A zatim, u poslednjoj trecini je Nesbø jednostavno poludeo (opet) ali s obzirom da ovog puta imamo dve paralelne price u realnom vremenu, isto tako imamo i krajnje zakukuljeno, zamumuljeno finale.
Bar zbog te dve trecine.Puno pozdrava svim Goodreads drugarima, vidimo se krajem avgusta..
Nesbo no suele defraudar, y tiene una fama muy merecida en el panorama literario de los “nordic noir”.
Además, enlaza con la novela anterior y con la posterior, de forma que el lector que no siga las novelas en orden cronológico puede perderse fácilmente, y eso es algo que me molesta en los escritores de series.
Nesbo sabe colocar las palabras adecuadas en frases bien construidas, y sabe enganchar al lector.
¡Lástima que no cierre sus novelas de forma global, obligándote a seguir enganchado a la siguiente entrega!
Es un truco muy recurrente, que me obliga a rebajarle una estrella.
Ma il bello della vita è proprio questo, che certe cose ritornano quando meno te l'aspetti: sono dunque fiero di dire che questo libro mi è stato consigliato dal mio "libraio di fiducia", ebbene sì, un tizio in carne ed ossa, tridimensionale, il cui consiglio è stato acustico e non fatto di pixel.
Voilà la mia introduzione totalmente fuori tema, che però mi sentivo di fare a proposito di questo libro.Trattasi del quarto della serie di Harry Hole; e perchè parti dal quarto, direte voi?
Ed ecco che entra in campo il "libraio di fiducia", uno che ha letto tutta la serie di Hole e sa cosa merita di più e cosa meno.
Watching David Suchet's Hercule Poirot tv series is like comfort food for me.
In the meantime I enjoy myself feeling part of the story as I follow him from here to there and discover this and that.
Ok if I think about it, the story does makes sense as he says it does but I am still feeling like I'm hopping on one foot trying to find sure ground.
Christie intends for this I think, she leads round and round and we enjoy the ride but at the end we do not know what exactly hit us.Why am I harping on about Christie and Poirot when I have just read a Nesbo though?
Νομίζω ότι με αυτό το βιβλίο με κέρδισε ως φανατικό αναγνώστη του ο Νέσμπο! Από την μέση και μετά οι ανατροπές διακατέχουν η μια την άλλη! Πάντως προτείνω όσοι θα ξεκινήσετε από το μηδέν να διαβάζεται τον επιθεωρητή Χάρι Χόλε ακολουθήστε την σειρά που έχουν γραφτεί, και θα καταλάβετε το γιατί! Για να μάθετε την σειρά επισκεφτείτε το http:\\www.anotherlookforyou.blogspot.com
Нивото отново рязко се вдигна и започвам да разбирам, защо толкова хора харесват поредицата за Хари Хуле.Заплетена история за любов, отхвърляне и отмъщение. Сюжетна линия и за циганите в скандинавските общества - не разбрах само, как Ана е наследила огромна къща в Осло от баба си (световно известна оперна певица), след като родителите и са били цигани-номади.Беше ми интересно да прочета и за банковите обири и за това как полицията се бори с тях.Над 500 страници е и не бе скучна дори за момент.Продължавам с "Пентаграм".
When a teller is shot and killed in a dramatic bank robbery, Oslo homicide detective Harry Hole is assigned to the team investigating the crime.
Unhappily, the former girlfriend turns up dead, apparently having died during Harry's blackout.As Harry digs into the series of bank robberies and the death of Anna, his former lover, it becomes apparent that the two cases may be related, and Harry soon finds himself with major problems.This is a densly-plotted, well-written book that will appeal to lots of readers, particularly those who have completed the Steig Larsson trilogy and who might be looking for a new Scandinavian protagonist.
I don’t know how how to describe what I feel at the end of the book!I know exactly what I felt at the beginning of Nemesis (and through three quarters of the plot): I thought, it was one of the best mystery books I ever read.
And then...the final spurt towards the finishing line...and...my initial sensations about my reading orgasm went rapidly downwards.
the plot is very scattered and demands a lot of brain work (don't even try to read it at work, between the meetings, very challenging).
Very confusing, utterly improbable and very soap-opera-like.(view spoiler)[Self-staging suicide was my biggest problem.
Nesbo is an international best-selling author from Norway.
It all starts out with a bank robbery, where the robber, later termed the Expediter, holds a gun to one of the female tellers’ head and tells the bank manager that he has twenty-five seconds to open the newly filled ATM.
When the manager finally gets the unit opened, he was two seconds overdue, and the Expediter shoots the teller in the head, killing her instantly.
Hole, along with the robbery group, is assigned to this case.
Hole stays late and leaves her apartment, apparently drunk, and cannot remember exactly what happened while he was there.
Συνεχίζεται ανοδικά η πορεία του συγγραφέα με κάθε βιβλίο του να είναι καλύτερο από τα προηγούμενα.Ο ήρωας του είναι απόλυτα ανθρώπινος, με τα δικά του βάσανα και προβλήματα που τον κάνουν απολύτως συμπαθή.Σε αυτήν την περιπέτεια, ο Χάρι Χόλε έχει βυθιστεί στην κατάθλιψη, απαρηγόρητος για το θάνατο της συνεργάτιδας του και κάνει ακόμα μια συνειδητή προσπάθεια να απέχει από το αλκοόλ.
Το πόσα πολλά μπορεί να κάνει ένας τρόφιμος φυλακής ήταν ίσως το μόνο αδύνατο σημείο της πλοκής, που εμένα δεν με έπεισε, αν και ίσως σε real life σενάριο να μην αποτελεί μεγάλη έκπληξη.
Harry makes a new friend and gets one step closer to solving the crime that matters most to him. I really enjoyed the mystery on this one, how it split off into multiple different little mysteries and then how they all came back together in the end. I was actually quite clueless until the very last moment regarding the whodunit portion of the story. I thought I had it all sorted out but was pleasantly surprised when I realized I was wrong. *GASP* Yes, I totally did just admit to being wrong abo
Harry makes a new friend and gets one step closer to solving the crime that matters most to him.
A new character was introduced in this book who has quite an interesting back story.
Any member of the Harry Hole fan club knows that character permanence is not something a reader should expect with these books.I do keep waiting for the bottom to fall out on the series and for things to get repetitive and boring.
Plots get predictable, characters become exaggerated and my tolerance for the “on the previous episode” rehashed bullshit becomes null.So here’s to Harry Hole continuing to prove my Negative Nancy ass wrong.
In Harry Hole there is a detective you believe in, he has flaws like everybody else, there are moments of tension, and a good developing plot/story, where footage of a bank robbery has been looked at hundreds of times and the police searched for finger prints twice as long as normal but nothing.
There is so much here in common with American crime fiction, in terms of plot, but the difference lies all in Scandinavia itself, creating a snowy, dark atmospheric landscape that seeps into your bones, although it never really feels that chilling in tone, mostly following the deep police investigation and studying Harry Hole, not just as a detective, but as a human being as well.
...هذا العمل يبدو من أوائل الروايات البوليسية التى كتبها " جو نيسبو" لإنه يفتقد الاحترافية التى تلمس
Harry Hole returns in the fourth book in the series by Jo Nesbø (although only the second, translated ably, by Don Bartlett) and follows on from  Redbreast . Some time has passed between the two novels, although it's not entirely clear how much - not enough to change the other people around him too much or for him to have ruined his relationship with Rakel (surely only a matter of time) or to have forgotten the murder of his partner, Ellen, but enough for there to be a new girl on the force - Be
So while investigating the bank robbery with Lønn, he's also trying to continue the investigation into the death of Anna without implicating himself to his colleagues, and not forgetting the ongoing investigation into the death of Ellen that he's struggling to keep alive.So far, so confusing.
I assumed this was to free up the rest of the book to concentrate on the Anna and Ellen cases, but nope, Hole's got the wrong man (and not for the last time).
(view spoiler)[Even then, while I thought that the Anna case was tied up satisfactorily, I struggled with one facet of the resolution of the robberies.
Jo Nesbo keeps getting better and better! This book is the fourth in the Harry Hole series and the second in what is called The Oslo Trilogy. The story is complex and multi-layered. It's almost breathtaking when all the pieces fall into place at the end.It's hard to write too much without giving away spoilers. Let me just say that I think all hell is going to break loose in the next book in the series.
Světový zájem o severskou kriminálku zřejmě rozpoutal Stieg Larsson svým Miléniem. Bohužel to má i ten důsledek, že se k nám ze Skandinávie tahají romány, které lze bez okolků označit za silně podprůměrné čtivo pro masy (a tedy intelektuálně člověka sotva obohacující). Jedním takovým zastupitelem, který je (naprosto špatně) kriminálním románem označován, je Nemesis od Joa Nesboa.Povězme si, co vlastně nutí vydavatele knihu zařadit do kategorie kriminální žánr:1) Je z prostředí (kmininální) polic
Jedním takovým zastupitelem, který je (naprosto špatně) kriminálním románem označován, je Nemesis od Joa Nesboa.Povězme si, co vlastně nutí vydavatele knihu zařadit do kategorie kriminální žánr:1)	Je z prostředí (kmininální) policie.2)	Vyšetřuje se tam zločin.3)	Obsahuje všechna možná klišé:a.
e.	Hlavní postava jde proti předpisům a nakonec uspěje.f. Doplňte si další, kniha to splňovat vesměs bude.Co však knize naopak markantně chybí, je bod, který dělá kriminálku kriminálkou a co určuje i to, zda jde o kvalitní knihu: čtenář má mít neustále možnost přemýšlet o tom, kdo zločin spáchal a neměl by se to pokud možno dozvědět dříve než na posledních pár stránkách.
One of The Sites Harry Is Sure To Visit At Least Once Per Novel: Vigeland Park Oslo, Norway   This is actually the second in the series and I have to say I found it better overall than a couple of his later ones. It is interesting going backwards and read of the events alluded to in Harry's future. Witnessing the beginning of his relationship with Rakel, probing the roots of the animosity between him and certain co-workers, indeed, the department in general. Yes, Harry gets his man. But at what
One of The Sites Harry Is Sure To Visit At Least Once Per Novel:
Vigeland Park Oslo, Norway
This is actually the second in the series and I have to say I found it better overall than a couple of his later ones.
It is interesting going backwards and read of the events alluded to in Harry's future.
Yes, Harry gets his man.
A decent series, actually better than most.
Another Oslo Site I Feel I've Come To Know Very Well:
Frogner Park Oslo, Norway
Harry does get around....
Oslo, In The Evening:
I'm dedicating the reading of this book to my friend Harry RoolartHarry, when he was a bit more active, pestered me until I read the first couple of books in the HH series.
After that I was hooked by Harry Hole.
He is in my top three characters who I really love and enjoy reading.
(This is a character from authors who are still alive and writing i.e. Michael Connelley.)So thanks, Harry!And remember that Harry is my "go to" person for all things Scandinavian.
:D+++++++++++++++++++This was the very best Harry Hole yet, in my opinion.
This series is right there with Dave Robicheaux, Harry Bosch, and OMG, Travis McGee?
