https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2035352.What_French_Women_Know_About_Love_Sex_and_Other_Matters_of_the_Heart_and_Mind
When I open it, it wasn’t without misgiving as such a book must surely contain a lot of generalisations and clichés and as anyone who read this book must know by now, French people don’t fit in moulds.
However, as I was quite curious about American culture, I decide to give it a try in order to see what exactly were those great differences.As we have many American films and books in France, I already have a good vision of American culture but only a superficial one; I didn’t know the rules behind the behaviour.
In this case, it’s the “typical” French woman, and as we all know, this person probably doesn’t exist outside of popular opinion.
They embrace “flaws” as character; a large nose, a flat chest, too short, too tall, these things are accepted and flaunted rather than concealed or “fixed.” Again, this isn’t absolute and there are plenty of ugly people in France I’m sure, but a big dose of confidence and sex appeal really goes a long way to trick us into ignoring this little inconvenient fact.
Paris-obsessed middle-aged American women will find much to reassure them of the rightness of their Francophilia in "What French Women Know..." A more critical reader interested in a serious cultural compare and contrast will see past the *très* gag-worthy "merci beaucoup"s and obnoxiously frequent "excusez moi"s and know the book for what it is - a masturbatory fantasy for people who love and glorify the idea of France and of being French because some unnameable sophistication must be imbued upon the denizens of Gaul.
In a lengthy conversational essay, Olliver expounds on every personal anecdote, pop culture reference, and quote she can muster relating to the French woman—a woman who boasts an internationally acclaimed allure.
What can an American woman learn in the 240 pages addressing the secrets of the French approach to life, love and most definitely sex?
If you’d like to know, first you must concede that the average French woman is simply sexier, more self assured, and more sophisticated than the average American woman.
If you can accept that premise, then this smartly explores how French Culture produces a distinct woman, and how that woman captivates the world.
She doesn't just say "this is how they differ" or "this is their outlook", she goes out of her way to prove that French women do it better.
This is a self-help book disguised as a text that discusses a culture.
Obviously, in this type of text broad-brush comparisons are necessary.
No, every French or American woman is not like how she describes, but her broad descriptions are the general cultural outlook.
It's just entertaining and made me ponder the potential differences between how I think, how my mom tells me to think, and how Ollivier claims French Women think.
As I said, that was sort of how I took the book: it definitely embraced aspects of French culture, but was sure to point out in different parts why it wouldn't work in America and, well, do we really WANT certain things this way?Finally, if there was one thing that would make me move to France, it was the chapter regarding how they raise children.
"What French Women Know" struck me as purporting to be a bit more intellectual than the author's previous book, "Entre Nous: A Woman's Guide to Finding Her Inner French Girl," in assessing the products of America's feel-good culture and a society in which people are taught to embrace their imperfections, themselves and their opinions.
The substance in this book (French women have a strong sense of the brevity of time, accept that life is inherently imperfect and behave accordingly) could have made for a smashing magazine article.
I read this in preparation for a panel I moderated at Books Are Better Shared. (http://booksarebettershared.com/)The focus of the panel was to discuss how authors help readers access worlds far beyond their own personal experiences, and this was a great addition to the discussion.
One woman with a head full of meaningful and powerful red hair shot up and said, 'The first time I had a multiple orgasm!'"While that certainly is an interesting anecdote, I don't know how many American women have attended a cocktail party like that.
If you're looking for a fun and meaningful look into French culture, I would suggest Harriet Welty Rochefort's "French Toast," Elaine Sciolino's "La Seduction,"* or Jean-Benoît Nadeau and Julie Barlow's "Sixty Million Frenchmen Can't Be Wrong." I would even recommend Ollivier's previous effort, "Entre Nous," which contained excellent book and movie suggestions -- but please, please, steer clear of this book.
I read Debra Ollivier's previous book, "Entre Nous," and enjoyed it thoroughly.
She writes about friendships, dating (a concept the French do not really have), cooking and shopping -- and how French women look at all of these things differently from American women.Ollivier's work is humorous and, at times, self-deprecating when she writes about her experiences in navigating the cultural differences between the French and the "Anglo-Saxons" (a catch-all term that some French folk use to describe the British or Americans).There are many lessons to be taken from the Gallic attitude toward life, and Ollivier shares them in an entertaining fashion.
There are many explanations of what French women know.
But I adore their fundamental attitude: they love Men a lot a lot.
And not surprisingly, the compliment is repaid by French men: they love Women a lot a lot.
So the foundation is always there to build upon.French women know men need a lot of tolerance and looking after.
This view offers a certain relief in the "battle of the sexes" as it is played out in the States.This book gets to the core of the famous French diet and way of eating, and how French women maintain their looks.
The explanation is fundamental and understandable.
Знання і прагнення того, щоб бачити щось далі за свого носика-це велика сила, на жаль якою не всі хочуть користуватися, а можливо просто краще жити так , як є, тому що, пізнання чогось нового часом лякає і ти вже не маєш змоги жити як раніше, тому що прагнеш побачити і зрозуміти всю глибокість свого існування , тому більшість вибирає «плавати на поверхні».
Є ще інший тип, коли приходять у гості , створюють два табори -курятник і табір орангутангів , чому взагалі ви пришли , якщо невзмозі говорити про щось всі разом, якщо не слухаєте один іншого тому що вам не цікаво , або вважаєте себе розумником?
250 сторінок про те, що не варто надто чимось перейматися, що б то не було, але шоколадних еклерів таки краще не їсти, ах і ще мереживна білизна, звісно)
Ця книга викликає дуже змішані почуття.По-перше, вона складно читається, тому що містить багато посилань на різні дослідження і безліч порівнянь на кшталт "а американки те" "а француженки це".По-друге, доводиться дуже багато інформації відкинути, щоб не втратити головну думку.По-третє, після прочитання з сумом робиш невтішний висновок, що ми дууууже схожі на американок.
Та, що там, наше суспільство дуже схоже на американське, на жаль.
Чому на жаль?
Та тому що ми женемося за якимись ефімерними ідеалами, забуваючи, що проживаємо життя цієї самої миті - вона прекрасна і неповторна.По-четверте, знову захотілося у Францію, не обов'язково у Париж, але обов'язково не в туристичний.Ну і останнє, і найкраще у цій книзі, після прочитання виникло бажання придбати нову білизну 😇
Її праці мають психологічне спрямування і публікуються у відомих американських та французьких журналах, окремі роботи друкуються великими накладами і, як інформують джерела, стають бестселерами.Книга “Що відомо француженкам про кохання, секс та інші приємні речі” складається з семи основних розділів: Чоловіки, Загадковість, Правила, Досконалість, Природа, Art de vivre, Тіло, та написана легкою для сприйняття мовою.
Тут ви отримаєте відповіді на ці запитання.Отже, підведемо підсумок: чому вас може зацікавити ця книга?Вам буде цікаво прочитати книгу Дебри Олів'є “Що відомо француженкам про кохання, секс та інші приємні речі”, наприклад, якщо вам подобаються книги про культуру та побут різних народів...
"What French Women Know..." can be summed up with the most oft repeated phrase in the book, which is that French women are aware of "the brevity of life and the immediacy of pleasure." The author is an American who moved to France and married a French man and became a Francofile.
Every woman in France can feel sexy and beautiful based on who they are/ what they project from the inside (character, confidence etc...).
This is not to say every woman does feel sexy in France, and a lot of the book is based on generalizations.
I was a little disappointed when I started reading this when I discovered that it was just another view by an American embedded in Paris.
My disappointment faded, however as the author turned against the social mores of American life with a persistent ferocity.
American puritanism, greed, gluttony, conformity, and materialism all come into scope to be felled one by one as 'completely unacceptable' in French life...
The title of the book might have been more aptly phrased, "What American (Canadian, British) Women (and Men) Don't Know."What did I come away with?
They are, in other words, completely unlike us.Ollivier goes beyond familiar ooh-la-la stereotypes about French women, challenging cherished notions about sex, love, dating, marriage, motherhood, raising children, body politics, seduction, and flirtation.
Less a how-to and more a how-not-to, What French Women Know offers a refreshing counterpoint to the stale love dogma of our times.
Peppered with anecdotes from its Franco-American author and filled with provocative ideas from French sexperts, mistresses and maidens alike, it debunks longstanding myths, presenting savvy new thinking from an old sexy culture and more realistic, life-affirming alternatives from the land that knows how to love.pub 2009
There is a lot of food for thought in this tiny tome.
It explains a lot: the nonchalance, the aloofness, the unfriendliness ...
I could go on but then you'll wonder why I love the French so much.
The best part of reading this book was the really interesting discussion about American/Anglo-Saxon values and perceptions compared to French I had with Angelo until he sliced open his hand with the bread knife.
Plus I heard the best joke/anecdote "Two Men & a Woman." It's very apropos (& a bit stereotypical) about culture.
So what do we learn from the great country that gave us libertine passion; Marquis de Sade, and philosophical giant; Voltaire?Apparently a lot!
I found this a great read especially because I am a non Aglo-Saxon, so it's basically learning both cultures for me.
I would love to inbreed some of this free-spirited values for myself, and can finally understand some of the things I don't understand when watching French movies!I found this an entertaining read, as I am not partisan to any cultures, this afforded me a few chuckles here and there.Very enlightening too.
Read it and embrace the inner French girl in you that wants to come out.
The book is exactly what it claims to be: a quick, fun examination of cultural differences in Lady Stuff (romance, bodies, relationships, diet) between French and American women.
Besides her own experiences, the author includes quips from friends, popular culture, and philosophers to highlight the attitudes and stereotypes surrounding women in the two cultures.
She keeps it light, highlighting that examining others allows us to see our own quirks, while lambasting The Rules mentality that American woman are said to have.
It's always good to see how much greener(or not)it is on the other side or ANY side to be honest.As 
You know, it's just so strange to casually pick up what you think is going to be a quick light read that won't make any dents in your head, and find that some author just nails you when you least expected it.
French women, it seems, are brought up in an adult culture, a confident culture, a culture that applauds the breaking of rules when the rules need to be broken.
It's confident.
It's real in a way that we don't really understand.
And it's going to make a world of difference in my life, way more than any of the silly "believe it and you'll see it" books so many of us read.
I'm not going to get embroiled in all the hoo~ha about this book.
What I am going to do is quote an excerpt from an interview with Vanessa Paradis aka 'Mrs' Johnny Depp, who, when asked the question "'You've been with Johnny for more than a decade.
What are the secrets of a long~lasting relationship"?
replied "Love, respect...and patience" which in a nut shell corroborates one of the messages contained in this book, your husband is your best friend?
this is not the way french women work.Vanesa Paradis interview appeared in Stylist Magazine issue36/30 June2010 and appeared in the Scoop section.
interesting to note that in America there is only one beauty the blond bimbo whereas in France beauty can take many different sides and intelligence is valued for a woman. The author points out that in America it is all about youth and fitting that narrow ideal whereas in France it is about adulthood and women regardless of age are/ feel sexy. They don't obsess about being the perfect woman and go to extremes about obsessing about their husband and children, being the perfect wife and mother and at the same time having a very neat and tidy household.
I loved this book.
I think of the phrase, "you're too close to it to really see" when I read this and think about how I live my live.
All the anxieties about love and relationships, the body and self confidence that we have as American women, (generally speaking) and then there are are women who live else where with out it?
This is possible???
Who knew!
lol.
This painted an entirely different perspective for me and I couldn't stop reading.
(Well, listening, it was a book on tape lol!
I'm a cheater hehe).
Excellent.
I know I'll be enjoying it more than once.
The concept of "ugly beautiful" is covered in this book.
It is a concept the French embrace.
It is the theory that what makes someone unique, while it often makes them ugly to the mass population....
is what makes them truly beautiful.
When you learn this, you start seeing ugly beautiful everywhere: In your old shoes, in your dog, in your car.
And you finally go easier on yourself, because you drop the perfection.
You drop the fake happiness.
You enjoy life right now, bite by bite, person by person, and each and every moment you have breath.
Joie de vivre!
This may be a good book but the author and publisher quoted a full page from my blog without attributing it. Lame at best, unethical at worst. Read about it here.http://pollyvousfrancais.blogspot.com...
3.5 stars
Anyway, this book was as brain-opening as that class was for me.
I love cultural studies in general and loved traveling Asia and exploring other cultures, so this "study" (not scientific but...) comparing French and American women was delightful, humbling, and fascinating.Some of my favorite quotations of Ollivier's:"The ability to hold back the floodgates (of information)...implies not only a capacity to keep secrets but to cultivate them--and that suggests that it's okay for some unspoken experiences to coexist that aren't necessarily shared with one's partner.
