https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/11334.Song_of_Solomon
It’s probably one of the most complex stories that I’ve read from Morrison; such a rich tapestry of stories, including some magical realism, symbolism, myths, and family history.
In many cases, it’s family history that results in this, and in this book we eventually see Milkman going on a journey to discover his past.
He never went over twenty miles an hour, never gunned his engine, never stayed in first gear for a block or two to give pedestrians a thrill.”Being such a central character, I concentrated mostly on Milkman's story the first time I read this.
I think Song of Solomon is my favourite Morrison novel thus far.
I feel that I enjoyed this book more than let's say, Beloved, because the time period in which this is set (the 1930s through to the 60s) is an era with which I'm relatively familiar.
In many ways I found that this novel almost mirrors the early chapters of The Autobiography of Malcolm X, I'm not sure if this was intentional though.
I really found this novel to be "unputdownable", more so than the other Morrison novels that I've read.
If I were to choose a good starting place for Morrison virgins, I'd choose Song of Solomon.
Named after his father and grandfather, Macom the third knows he can’t have a future because his surname is Dead.
They are all groping in the dark, lost in the thick mist of fear and shame, in a world where the living and the dead coexist in the mystical tradition of Afro-American songs.Only those who are not afraid of ghosts, only those who intone healing melodies to suture the scarred past, only those who welcome anonymity with arms wide open possess the clairvoyance to reach beyond the mist and are blessed with the redeeming light of truth.
If the road to hell is paved with Good Intentions, the road to hell on earth is a yellow bricked road bounded on both sides by long sparkling walls of Indifference.
At first you will love them, or you will hate them, and then the tables will switch, and you will be left with the unsatisfying satisfaction of reading about human beings.
What is a human being expected to do with this horrible paradox that is real life?This story poses the question to a boy-child who reaches and then passes the age of thirty in a safe, contained bubble, his head filled with safe, contained problems.
now imagine a common and relatively benign scene in which a young black girl in 19th century america is lawfully taken from her family and sold off.
although morrison never explicitly describes the aforementioned lineage, the characters in song of solomon (set in the early 1960s) are the descendants of any one of a number of girls such as the one described above.
which doesn’t mean that morrison simply reduces a person to a walking manifestation of his/her people’s history.
i almost laugh to myself that one of my chief complaints is that morrison is almost too much of a good storyteller...
One of my absolute favorites, partly for the following:"You can't own a human being.
You can't lose what you don't own.
Suppose you did own him.
Could you really love somebody who was absolutely nobody without you?
You really want somebody like that?
Somebody who falls apart when you walk out the door?
You're turning over your whole life to him.
Your whole life, girl.
And if it means so little to you that you can just give it away, hand it to him, then why should it mean any more to him?
he can't value you more than you value yourself."
Toni Morrison is perhaps the most important writer living today and Song of Solomon is perhaps the best novel of the last 50 years of American life.
Attempting to paint the novel as fable undercuts its central mission: to highlight the important role of mythology in linking African Americans to their past by creating narratives for those that were lost during slavery, Jim Crow, and black peril.
It is that theme--one of a resurrected connection with the past--that makes Morrison's novel of the utmost importance.
We must all connect back to our mythology and begin to understand the language of previous generations in order to benefit ourselves.
Originally, I felt this book was on par with The Bluest Eye, but still not as strong as Beloved.
I now think they are ALL great Morrison novels.
The further I get from this book, the bigger and the bolder the shadow it casts.
I love how Morrison writes and how she juggles big themes (death, family, trauma, class, home, race, slavery and African-American culture, etc).
Obviously, she belong in the canon of great black writers, great women writers, etc., but her words and novels transcend ALL of those shelves.
She is wrestling with global themes and ideas that transcend race, sex, culture, and time.
Milkman's father, the man with the weird name and mysterious past, teaches his son to 'own things'.
When a kind woman brings her cherry jam on white bread, she weeps because the fruit she loves for the taste of sun and earth exploding, the feel of stalk and stone and bark-scraped knees, has lost these elements that forge the relationships between self and world and being that have nothing to do with property, lines of nourishment and communication.
Can I allow myself to believe that this doesn't only happen in tales?Mystery, fable, and also ghost story, for here the dead speak.
I believe the only other Black writer to come close isJames Baldwin in Go Tell It on the Mountain, but even he had to start "explaining" things that he would not have to do for a strictly African-American audience.Names play a pivotal role in this story.
Every significant character is given a symbolic name or nickname which is symbolic of how names play a role in African-American life.
Though the story's main setting is Michigan, Milkman's "Roots" journey leads him not simply through a different land (the mid-Atlantic and eventually the origin of African- Americans: Virginia), but literally (in the magical realist sense) back in time.
I would like to have given a lower rating because I simply did not enjoy the read, but there is a value to this book that I cannot deny. Powerfully written, and has great cultural insight and thought. But really, I couldn't relate very well -- perhaps that is the point in many cases. I can't explain it much better without spending more time looking at it again than I'd like to, so I'll leave it at this:I felt enlightened. I felt like shit. All without feeling very invested.
This is the first 5 star read of the year that wasn't a reread!
I'm really surprised and relieved that my first Toni Morrison was a huge success.
This novel has a parcel of amazingly odd characters who you want to hear more and more about.
The main plot of this novel is a search to understand one's heritage, but the joy I found whilst reading this came from the succinct, yet poetical writing style and those unique characters.
This makes me consider reading all of her novels in 2018 and so eager to read the two other Morrisons I have on my shelves this year.
“Both terms are central to the narrative: flight as escape or confrontation; mercy the unspoken wish of the novel’s population.” Flight as a theme was abundantly clear to me at first read: Pilate, the shunned woman without a navel, who uses flight as a means of survival; Macon Dead, her money-conscious brother who uses flight to get richer; Macon Dead Jr., or Milkman, his son, whose flight is a symbol of all things strange and redeeming; Hagar, Pilate’s daughter who flies by night to hunt the man she loves, the one she thinks belongs to her.
For years I have heard Morrison's name float around, all the praises of how she approaches important social issues through a historical lens and I was so excited when I finally got my hands on this book.Following a black middle-class family through a pivotal moment in America history, we zoom in and explore the complex interactions with each other and the community.
The awareness of the main character's privileged life shapes him into a more contemplative person adding a genuine feel to his interactions with his family and other members of the community.
This beautifully written book about a black family living in Michigan has a little of everything - magic, ghosts, eccentrics, murderers, lovers, and more. Jumping back and forth in time. it tells the story of Milkman Dead, who after growing up indulged and self-centered in a northern, industrial city comes to discover something of his ancestry and roots in the rural south. A fascinating story filled with wonderful interesting characters. 💖Highly recommended to fans of literary fiction.
От едната страна са чудачките, които разумно стоят далеч от нормалните; от другата са разумните, които налудничаво не искат да разберат пъстрия и богат душевен свят на първите; някъде залутан по средата е Биберона (то с такъв прякор към кого ли можеш да се числиш), който е раздвоен между ялово бъдеще и семейна история с корени на трепетликова гора.Тони Морисън дръзко залага на основен персонаж, на когото (почти) липсват положителни качества.
Като дете мечтателен, но съкрушен, когато разбира, че никога няма да може да полети (кой ли няма да се отчае и всичко да му стане все едно като му разбият подобен блян), отхвърлен от почти всички свои връстници и при липса на стабилна опора в семейството, той свиква да разчита единствено на егоизма си.
Toni Morrison can do no wrong. I love her writing. Reading her work is such an ethereal experience. The words sing to me, they lift me up, transport me to another plane. Her writing is music to my ears. Oh how I loved Solomon's Song. Intoxicating. She tells stories like none other.
The final section of the book suddenly turns into a fable, and the main character, formerly a realistically drawn urban black youth, is now suddenly an African folk hero with almost supernatural abilities, largely having to do with moving through the woods better than white people.
Why not show how the main character's awakening helps him grow in a realistic way, and makes him better able to navigate his actual, urban life?
I love Toni Morrison, I really do, but this book reads like a standard lemon of a workshop story: every character has both an eccentric name and some striking characteristic. This one has no navel, and this one is supernaturally lucky, and this one jumps off of buildings. And there is none of the assured economy of either Beloved or my personal favorite, Jazz. Here, we have to get every detail about every damned thing until I feel like I'm choking on the stuff of the book.
The fathers may soar...And the children may know their names... What a book! What an incredible journey! I cannot possibly review this book; it has me completely speechless! What a pleasure to partake in Milkman's journey, to be introduced to characters like Pilate, and to be reminded that one can fly if only one tries enough! This is my first African American and Morrison novel, and I'm so glad we'll be doing her next semester! Ecstatic and eager to fish out gems from this novel! Only hope the
What a book!
What an incredible journey!
I cannot possibly review this book; it has me completely speechless!
What a pleasure to partake in Milkman's journey, to be introduced to characters like Pilate, and to be reminded that one can fly if only one tries enough!
This is my first African American and Morrison novel, and I'm so glad we'll be doing her next semester!
Ecstatic and eager to fish out gems from this novel!
Only hope the instructor doesn't take the fun away.
O Sugarman done fly away...Sugarman done gone...Sugarman cut across the sky...Sugarman gone home...

Through its protagonist, Macon Dead III aka Milkman, and three generations of the Dead family (I know that's a strange name to have), the reader is introduced to the life of African-Americans and how centuries of racism, oppression and subjugation has affected the psyche of these people.
Whether it is Hagar who would much rather die than live a life without her man, or Milkman's father Macon Dead II who values property and gold above all else.
Morrison does mention how whites in the US used to give strange names to blacks.
No sé si seré capaz de hacerle una reseña a este libro (supongo que sí), pero de momento sepan que es maravilloso y que, aunque en algunos tramos parezca pesado, está genial. El final es increíble y da la sensación de circularidad, algo que me encanta en los libros. Se termina donde empieza. Hay que leer a Toni Morrison alguna vez en la vida.
I have read a couple of Toni Morrison's other novels, but this is the by far the best I have read.
This is a stunning tale of self-discovery that follows the lives of a black family living in Michigan.
The majority of the narrative revolves around Milkman, the first black child born at Mercy Hospital, and the son of a prominant and wealthy businessman.
To escape the town and threat of death by the hand of his scorned lover and cousin, Hagar, he goes on a quest for treasure.
Morrison's approach is magical and passionate, and her prose is detailed, riveting, and powerful.
"On autumn nights, in some parts of the city, the wind from the lake brings a sweetish smell to shore … there was this heavy spice-sweet smell that made you think of the East and striped tents and the sha-sha-sha of leg bracelets.
When I finished though, I felt a little strange, a little uneasy, as if she pulled back my awareness until it hurt a little more than I’d like.Song of Solomon is a story about heritage.
You see how singing carries power and magic and history.
I believe in the magic of singing, both personally and collectively, because I’ve felt it.
The fathers may soarAnd the children may know their namesWhen I learned that school would be forcing me to read Song of Solomon I whined and groaned and cursed the name of Toni Morrison to the high heavens.
I had already entered the strange and mysteriously poetic world of Toni Morrison to no avail, and I didn't believe that this book would be any better.
In  Song of Solomon , Morrison weaves a tale of magical realism in which all characters are connected.
Spark Notes has tried and failed.
I doubt even Morrison herself could summarize such a twisted plot line.
A great book. One of a kind. A time it seems strange, how it's jumping to different time and in and out of people's thought. But asI read on I began to see and appreciate the style of writing.
First thing I saw was the name Till, which seemed so familiar until I realized I'd read it in the book I'd just finished.First I thought it was a bizarre coincidence that twitter would be talking about another murdered black boy with the name Till, but it's the same one from 1955.
Song of Solomon is the story of Macon Dead or Milkman, who, quite without knowing it, suffocates under the history of his parents and his family.
It's Milkman's journey towards realization; knowing that what he's been told won't be enough, he's gotta go out there and discover for himself.
I was halfway through the book, enjoying the character development, the vivid story telling, the beautiful language, completely oblivious to the skillful weaving of all these tales.
Milkman's self-discovery, his awakening from the youthful, selfish, one-dimensional, I-deserve-only-happiness state of mind through a quest to find his family roots.
The importance of family history for self-identity, and the difficulty of obtaining the truth, not just in the past but even from his own parents and their unhappy marriage.
The juxtaposition of certain characters and their beliefs.
And I thoroughly enjoyed the path he took to get there.
This book takes me back to my college English classes, when I read so many books that were rich in beautiful language but poor in plot and action.
I didn't connect with any of the characters in the book, so all of their actions seemed hollow and arbitrary; I didn't feel that familiar emotional tug when good or bad things happened to them.
But I can only honestly report what I felt while reading, which in this case is: lovely language; boring story.
