https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2504418.Confessions_of_a_Young_Man
This memoir was finished in his early 30s after he decided to become a writer.
He first tried journalism which he found stifling: "I longed to give a personal shape to something and this could not be achieved in an article." His memoir is youthfully all over the place, at times, but it's stuffed with alluring ideas.
Whiffle even has an orange cat named George Moore.
Says Peter Whiffle: "I've come to the conclusion that the only thing to do was live, just as fully as possible." The sentiment belongs to George Moore and I don't mean the cat.
George Moore writes of a man [himself] in his twenties, searching for his passion. First, its art, then realizing it wouldn't work for him, he switches to reading and writing. Its a very honest book, from the insight of a privileged young man in a different time. I enjoyed his opinions and critiques of the authors he's read and how they changed throughout his twenties. I gave it three stars only because he was so arrogant and unlikeable.
There are those who claim to have finished books by George Moore, but I don't believe them.
First 40 or 50 pages are promising, then arrogance enters to spoil the rest of the book.
Lively report from early 20th c Paris & London.hilites:39..why could i not live without an ever-present and acute consciousness of life?
why could i not love, forgetful of the ticking of the clock in the perfumed silence of the chamber?49..Degas' innovations75..miniature of a beauty of 30.
He dreams of Pleasure and he is offered Duty.94..Manet & Degas in a cafe105..Whistler the least Impressionistic106..reproach of Millet...always the same thing, the same peasant, the same sabot, the same sentiment.109..Oh, for excess, for crime.
Moore's false modesty disintegrates as the narrative progresses, leaving the reader with an insightful, if somewhat egoistic, read about art and life in Paris circa the late 19th century. Some writerly trivia: In his day George Moore regarded Joyce, his younger compatriot, with distaste: : "Take this Irishman Joyce, a sort of Zola gone to seed. Someone recently sent me a copy of Ulysses. I was told I must read it, how can one plow through such stuff?... Joyce, Joyce, why he's nobody - from the Dublin docks: no family no breeding." (Taken from Moore's unpublished letters)
roundup from 3.5 stars, kind of half memoir and half musings on art, culture etc. never read any of moore's other stuff so i really can't comment on his body of work here aside from this. jumps around to subjects rather frequently, the most interesting are his thoughts on literature, which includes the highest praise of balzac. his personal life is less interesting as he comes across as a rich, arrogant dick, but i guess almost any artist from 19c and before had to have that persona
For its era -- 1900s turn of the century -- this narrative offers insight to lifestyles of gay dandies and man about town a century ago, told through the POV of a character who believes himself a literary phenomenon. Snoozed through some passages about protagonist's hero worship of close friend.
Per leggere la recensione vai su:http://letteraturaecinema.blogspot.it...
