https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/22347.The_Invisibles_Volume_1
And don’t get me started on the more disturbing elements and imagery in this book.Here’s some pseudo-something or other to wash your palette.*sob*Bottom Line: This was published in the ‘90’s when creators were trying to raise this medium to an art form.
Jeff, I think the word your searching for is “shallow”.And for the record, I don’t hate Grant Morrison, just most of his attempts to meld comic book story telling with heavy opium use.Oh, yeah, the alien abduction revelation via an acid trip.And the puppet show in India….Pass the hookah to the right!
This is the first volume of what many consider to be a classic series.
The first half focuses on a young Jack Frost, a problem teenager, who is initiated into the Invisibles and thus gives the reader a look into this fantastic world.
To some readers the latter half of this novel will seem confusing as the creators make references to all types of themes and subjects (though these are mentioned to a lesser extent in the first half, too): Aztec Mythology, Gnosticism, 80s pop culture references, alien abductions, emotional control, Biblical tales and characters, Byron, Shakespeare, BDSM and so much more.
When I started to get into comics in college, it was the britwave authors who I found most appealing: Moore, Gaiman, Delano, Ellis, Ennis, Milligan, and Morrison. But when I tried to read Morrison's Magnum Opus, I found none of the careful structuring or intelligent dialogue which I was hoping for. In disappointment, I threw down Morrison's book and it was a long time before I gave him another chance.But when I did, I read  WE3 , Morrison's cleanest and least pretentious story. I still have trou
Of course, Moorcock's critique of plagiarism grows a bit weaker in my eyes after comparing his Gloriana to the Titus Groan books.I find Morrison's complexity outstrips his skill here, though I should note that he was working on scripting for five or six other books at the time, including the enjoyable Flex Mentallo and even better Kill Your Boyfriend.The art of the early Invisibles was also of a lower quality, often simplified without being elegant and with various errors of foreshortening, perspective, and anatomy.
"I'm one holy fucking terror."I went into this expecting a superhero comic and got psychic warfare and psychedelic anarchy instead. Morrison at his most experimental and ambitious."There's a palace in your head, boy. Learn to live in it always."
(Aliens?) So most of it is sort of like The Matrix where Neo takes the red pill and finds out the world ain't what he thought it was.
(But this was written before The Matrix which makes it even more awesome.) There's a lot of symbolism and stuff involving Illuminati and New World Order theories.
Like, literally, there is some sick and twisted shit in this.But I love the deeper messages and ideas going on here.
Parts of it, I was like:But, it's brilliant.
I liked the first half more than the second part, which was called Arcadia, just because there was some seriously disturbing violent parts in Arcadia.
Critics of Morrison’s work might say a book like The Invisibles talks a big game about big ideas and big plans for humanity and society but it doesn’t really offer anything substantial – it’s pseudo-intellectual at its core.
Whatever things Morrison talks about in The Invisibles, mixing in spiritualism and magik, philosophy and art, the impression it leaves on the reader is undeniable and real.
The reason it’s not a full five perfect read is that I felt the French Revolution story arc and the Tom O’Bedlam speechifying went on a bit too long.
Grant Morrison has said that he wrote The Invisibles as part of a magic ritual, and also that aliens told him part of the plot.
The Invisibles ends up being pretty much exactly what you'd expect, given that background.
Let me also add that there's a great deal of ultra-paranoid conspiracy theory culture as well as the expected psychedelic gods and astral time travel and such.
As for the plot...
Well, there's an ill-defined secret conspiracy to rob humanity of free will and The Invisibles are trying to stop them.
Think Assassins Creed, with far less defined threats and goals.
This graphic novel is a spicy gumbo of astounding influences. Listing just a few: Illuminatus!, brain machines, psychedelics, chaos magick, conspiracy theory, mind control, The Prisoner, Michael Moorcock's The Cornelius Chronicles, material gnosticism, Dada, Situationism, violence/ ahimsa, time travel, secret societies... Author Grant Morrison never disappoints and serves as a reminder that much of the most advanced fiction of our times is turning up in comic books. Like Robert Anton Wilson before him, Morrison popularizes difficult concepts and serves them up in a tastily entertaining fashion. Life changing.
This was a lot of fun.
It reminded me of early Hellblazer except it doesn't take itself quite as seriously.
If you don't know much about Grant Morrison, I would suggest doing a bit of homework before diving into this, as it deals with (and is a product of) some occult concepts important to Morrison.
Knowing about this beforehand really helped me enjoy and understand it a bit more than I would have otherwise.
I suggest checking out his disinfo.con lecture (which is what made me want to read this in the first place) or his documentary Talking with the Gods.
1 1/2 StarsI imagine Morrison sitting in a candlelit room flourishing a quill as he wrote this pretentious babble.
That's right, I was so bored that I couldn't even bring myself to read the final 3 pages.It seemed to me that Morrison was just throwing everything he could at it and calling it philosophy.
If you aren't relying on the artwork to move the story then you aren't using the proper medium, write a novel.
If you have to constantly write philosophical monologues designed to beat the story's theme into your readers brain....you're doing it wrong.Overall, I could not connect with this story or any of the characters.
As fellow reviewer William Thomas points out, the book suffers because of the art.
Steve Yeowell & Jill Thompson, respectively illustrating the first and second arcs, don't exactly make the book stand out.
I liked Yeowell's output better than Thompson's, though.Story-wise, I'm aware [1] of the phenomenon that "The Invisibles" has become, [2] that it probably picks up in pace and what-not in subsequent volumes, and that [3] what I'm reading will most likely make more sense later - if not, I'm sure a second reading would clear things up, but at the same time I figure that the series cannot possibly be that dense, or else it would not be what it is/has become (reputation-wise).Anyway.I've got the whole The Invisibles omnibus to go through, so I will be reading the next volumes, but unless things pick up a little bit, I'll most likely be reading it a chapter (an issue) here & there, in between other books.
Should be called, "Ohhhh my! Aren't we alternative!?!"
It's funny, but everything I liked and didn't like about the Doom Patrol book I read is everything I don't like and like about this book.
Whereas I reveled in the "dada" aspect of the Doom Patrol, and was disappointed when all the nonsense began to have a pat logic to it, this book's nonsense struck me as too much free posturing, and I wanted desperately for some semblance of plot to exist to grab my attention on.
This book began too far in the middle, and while I appreciate the riskiness of this maneuver, it caused the best to follow to formulate in my mind as free-jazz sludge.
I realized today that I've never actually reviewed this book. I thought about reviewing it. Then I realized that I hate this book so much I can't even write about it.So: I hate this book. I hate, hate, hate this book.I hate it.

Lots of conspiracy theories thrown together for the hell of it.and none of it making a damn bit of sense.I found it all wildly inconsistent,boring and nothing in it at all made me want to read on except my own will power.I am amazed this desperately hard to read tat gets such good reviews yes its very different ,but it's not very good at all.
Morrison's a fucking spaz.
He always has to have his characters--none of which I particularly care about--ramble on with long speeches that rope in historical perspective and introductory philosophy and grand-yet-hollow ideas for no real reason.I often like where The Invisibles goes once it gets going.
While I like where he goes, where he comes from is what demotivates me.
The Invisibles doesn't seem like it's reaching for anything.
Morrison is creative, but his creativity isn't pointing at much aside from ideas about sophomoric anarchy and a quasi-intelligent acid trip ramble about perceived reality vs reality reality.
The first two thirds of this were arresting, but then it quickly irked me once time travel and the Marqui de Sade were involved.A teenage trouble-making thug is sent to a reform school where parts of their brains and their testicles are removed, but he's saved by an Invisible and inducted into their cell after a long education on the streets with Tom Bedlam.
The influence of The Watchmen and Sandman is evident, but not quite as involved as those (and not nearly as good as Sandman).Sigh, de Sade.
I think he's just the other side of the coin of violent authority, though: a reflection not a transgression.
Picked this one up at the LCS because of all the discussion surrounding the Omnibus release.
I don't think I like it.
I really struggled at first because Dane is so unlikable -- I just don't identify with that kind of rebellion.
(I can see where he would speak to a lot of kids, though, especially back in the 90's.) Then I liked it with Mad Tom playing the Merlin/Wart, Way of the Peaceful Warrior Socrates, etc character for Dane.
And then Arcadia felt pretentious and confusing and a bit "shocking for shock's sake"-- especially the de Sade castle scenes.
This is a book that is British punk angry revolutionary political with sci fi and history and DeSade and the Beatles and by Grant Morrison...
but I didn't really get into it.So today, in early January, I just read Sam Quixote's fine review of this book and have been influenced by my friend Matt Williamson to reconsider it, and to go deeper into it, since it gets better, and my wife's favorite movie of all time is The Matrix, so I am recommending it to her and will read it, darn it.
Have not been a Morrison fan, really.
I actually enjoyed this more than I thought. I gave it a good reading session over two nights and read the whole Vol 1. I must admit, there is some 'weird as' and 'wtf' shit in there, at times, especially as I got tired I had no friggin idea about what was going on. But for a chill out comic session. It was better than I was expecting and that is a good result.
That made only the slightest bit of sense.
Digamos para resumir que es un viaje lisérgico en busca de la libertad y la verdad que nos niegan aquellos que ejercen el poder, pero por el camino nos encontraremos muchas historias increibles, de nosotros depende elegir cómo interpretar las metáforas y hasta qué punto nos parece que Morrison está acertado en sus planteamientos o si simplemente tuvo un mal viaje y se limitó a poner todo lo que se le fue ocurriendo en el papel.
Se dice que los hermanos wachoski tomaron muchas cosas de los invisibles para hacer matrix, aunque desde luego, no fueron tan atrevidos como Morrison.
I picked these first 8 issues up on ebay for a measly $4.00.
Immediately, the work and art is really 90's, which is a bit offsetting, because it seems to need a futuristic feel for the story to function.
By the third issue you forget the 90's, however, and suspend disbelief.
Overall, the writing and art hold up quite well.
If you read this work from the perspective that it is collecting radical thought over the centuries and weaving it together through a weird superhero narrative, however, it is delightful.
There is some creeepy stuff in this comic; those tally-ho hunter guys with the dark glasses, and what about that unfleshed Aztec god? Should not have read about him right before bed. That said, I'm not sure if I'll get into this series or not. It has some compelling plot elements but I don't really like any of the characters, especially the forever whinging Dane.
I'll write this review for all volumes."The Invisibles" is 1960's psychedelia wrapped in modern clothing and wrung through every magickal wringer Grant Morrison could reach. Aliens that may or may not be, conspiracies that loop around themselves and the New Buddha in the body of a foul-mouthed Liverpudian boy named Dane. It's a tale of Us vs. Them that eats itself like orobouros.
I love trippy revolutionaries.
As the Invisibles battle threats and jump through time, a revolution is coming that must not be stopped!Written by Grant Morrison and illustrated by Steve Yeowell, Jill Thompson, and Dennis Cramer, The Invisibles Volume 1: Say You Want a Revolution was printed under DC Comics’ Vertigo imprint.
While there was censorship in this novel it also ties into the series which questions things authority and things like why a 1904 novel was printable but not a modern telling of it.The Invisibles 1: Say You Want a Revolution is a nice start to a good story.
The part with Tom O' Bedlam was my favorite. It is a the older, wiser guide disguised in craziness and poverty motif and reminded me of the movie The Fisher King.
Finally reading this series and I am hooked! I found the bum who takes Jack Frost under his wings tiring and I hated all his verbosity - but then again as a woman I have guys spouting crap at me all the time thinking they have the right for me to listen :(
