https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/408615.Left_to_Tell
Entering this book, I was expecting personal account of the Rwandan holocaust, despite the foreword stating otherwise.
In some ways, my expectations were met, in some others, I was surprised.
More than just a chronicling of atrocities, Imaculee Ilibagiza's tale is also a testament to inner fortitude, faith, and the power to forgive.
As an agnostic (though my views on spirituality are constantly in flux) I expected that her story would come off as a bit hokey, with too much Jesus-speak for me.
Her story, even for a nonbeliever, is an inspiring tale and a stunning demonstration of the power of her faith.Her narrative style is perfectly suited to her content.
BUT THIS MAY SAVE YOU FROM YOURSELF!and isn't that worth the effort, to read a book that may not be at all lacking challenge, but one that will bring you to ask the question: what angers me or what relationship has been forgotten because of the lack of forgiveness?God grant us the strength to not die with unresolved issues, or hate in our heart, regardless of circumstance.
The five stars are more for how powerful and raw the book felt and how much it physically effected me.
To me this is the job of a really great survivor testimony.
Her story is not necessarily unique in the realm of the Rwandan genocide, though as I know from personal experience in working with Holocaust survivors every story is different and unique.
Anyone with any interest in the power of human mind to overcome the absolute worst life can throw at you needs to read this book.
Actually everyone needs to read this book.
For example, I was able to savor all the little things with which Immaculeé filled her story: descriptions of her family and their compassion for one another; their simple lives and deep faith; their concern and care for their community; her family’s lack of prejudice despite their Tutsi minority status; the beauty of the Rwandan countryside; Immaculeé’s intense desire for an education and determination to get one despite all the obstacles she faced as a Tutsi; her many lovely and encouraging dreams of deceased family; her developing relationship with God, and SO much more.
To give this book fewer than five stars would be a statement that it was somehow incomplete or flawed.
How could I find fault with something so heartfelt and genuine?
This is a book I will not read again.
This is a book I did not ENJOY reading, but it is a book that is worth reading.
If you like to read books that entertain and put your brain on cruise control, this isn't the book for you.
If you like books that feed you and make you grateful for the gifts God has given you, this is a book you won't want to miss.
God is the source of all positive energy, and prayer is the best way to tap in to His power."I also loved the part where she asked the pastor who was hiding her for a Bible.
(I had a similar experience recently with opening my own scriptures to a passage that I knew was meant especially for me.) Immaculee had just prayed for another woman (the pastor had turned the woman away) and she had also pled for a sign that God was watching over her and the women in the bathroom with her.
The narrative's glut of horrific violence made me sick at heart, but Ilibagiza's faith and personal strength pulled me through.These people are just like you and me: human, educated, desiring of a happy life, and it's stunning to see how quickly so much of this can go down the tubes when mob mentality, based on racial prejudice, sets in.
Yes, Katrina, New Orleans, wasn't anything close to a Rwandan Holocaust, but I was shocked how many people, in the aftermath -- good religious, supposedly god-fearing people -- said things to me like, "Those people weren't smart enough to leave when they should have" or "Why should I send money, they're just a bunch of welfare cheats anyway", etc.
One of the voices was of a man who she later learns killed her mother and brother and a man who's children she had been classmates with in grade school.Most people assume the holocaust was a Hutu versus Tutsi tribal conflict.
They were suspected of being Hutus because the first soldiers they encountered couldn't believe it possible that any real Tutsis could have survived the holocaust in that part of the country.One story from the book that I think illustrates the predicament of the Hutus is one family that rescued and hid a Tutsi woman who had been left for dead.
Her family is murdered - her grandparents, parents, brothers, aunts, uncles, and cousins (including an 8 month old baby.) They are only a small portion of the million lives lost in the genocide.At one point, she hears screaming, then silence, then a baby crying.
She prays for the child's soul and asks God, "How can I forgive people who would do such a thing to an infant?" He responds to her, "You are ALL my children...
(maybe if I stop reading I can throw away my Paxil!!!) How someone is able to get to the point that they think it's okay, necessary even, to chop babies in half or throw hundreds of people into a fire because they are ethnically different is incomprehensible.
This is a story that everyone should know.
This is a story of great faith.
Even though it deals with what happened in Rwanda (which we should all understand) it is the story of a young woman who found God in a bathroom and how he rescues her again and again even through some very difficult situations.
My favorite quote from the book happens when there are killers outside the place she is hiding, calling her name and she is praying and has a vision of Jesus who says to her "mountains are moved with faith, Immaculee, but if faith were easy, all the mountains would be gone."
I believe the basic facts of the story, because I remember news accounts of the time, but some of Immaculee’s details sound fake.
She’s a tall woman weighing 115 pounds at the beginning of the story, (hard enough to believe in itself,) then she loses 50 pounds over the next three months, getting down to 65 pounds, and the night they are let out of the bathroom, she runs to safety?
But it’s not just the strange and contradictory details, but the whole tone of the book that seems fake.
Painful, horrific, and still so amazing – this book reminded me of the incredible power of prayer and trusting in God. Although her faith in God is beyond measure, there are a few points that come to my mind that I disagree with.
I would always turn immediately to the Source of all true power: I would turn to God and let His love and forgiveness protect and save me.”“But I came to learn that God never shows us something we aren't ready to understand.
Reading this book brought me to tears so many times, and it truly takes a phenomenal woman to go through what she did and then forgive the perpetrators after all was said and done.
I believe that this is a book that everyone needs to read at some point in his life.
Not only will reading this book make you realize how much you may take for granted in your life, but it also shows you that if she can find forgiveness through God, so can you, no matter how big or small the trespass.
It’s very much a companion to The Hiding Place.Immaculee grew up in a wonderful family and excelled in STEM subjects in school despite encountering extreme racism.
Being unable to move or make any noise for that whole time, Immaculee immersed herself in meditation and prayer, using the time to strengthen her faith and character.Immaculee’s efforts to forgive and stop the cycle of hatred and violence is really inspiring; her determination and hard work are great examples; all can learn from it.
This book broke my heart over and over all the while strengthening my spirit.
I learned that no matter what your situation you can put your trust in God's hands.
Often times I feel like my own needs are trivial in comparison to what others may be dealing with and that I don't have a right to burden Heavenly Father with my miniscule problems and questions.
But we all need direction, no matter what your circumstance and we all need support.
This book was wonderful.
It inspired me to serve more willingly, to be more informed, and to try to put my life in God's hands.
Through her ordeal, she was isolated with 7 other women for 3 months in a tiny bathroom.
She turned to prayer and meditation as she had no idea how long this ordeal would last.
It was a great reminder that money and power can influence people to do evil.
Slowly, people can be influenced to believe things that are not true or act inhumanly based on subtle propaganda.
Her ability to forgive allowed her to move on with her life and help others.
"I forgive you." My heart eased immediately.

Immaculee Ilibagiza lived this horror during the Rwandan Genocide in 1994.
This fascinating story was not just about the Rwandan government and about the genocide, but it is also about Immaculee’s journey with god.
Immaculee is inspiring in this beautiful story where she describes her relationship with god.
I personally really liked how Immaculee talked about how God gave her strength to get through such a hard time in her life.
It reminds us the power of god and that shows us how a corrupt government can affect minorities.
Most anyone who lives through a horrendous catastrophe could probably write a successful book about their experiences, but Ilibagiza’s unfaltering positivity, resolve, faith (in both God and humanity), and empathy stick out much more than the circumstances themselves.
God is the source of all positive energy, and prayer is the best way to tap in to His power.” Is she pointing out or missing something that is so simple it is obvious?Call it karma, or divine intervention, or simply getting out what you put in, or whatever you want; the fact remains that Ilibagiza is certainly one of the most impressive and inspirational people I know of.
I can feel Immaculee's voice underneath it--her efforts to put this story into words.
The term "positive thinking" and related terms and ideas are very heavy toward the end of the book.
Saying that prayer and "positive thinking" are the same, which the book literally does, collides thoroughly with the desperate, meditative, almost trance-like prayer that Immaculee holds on to through her hiding and even after.
This really is my big hangup with the book: the imposed message that if you just think positively, everything will work out for you in the end and you'll get everything you want.
UNA HISTORIA DESGARRADORA, CON UNA GRAN ENSEÑANZA DE VIDA. Para ser mi primer libro de temática histórica y de escritora africana, me conmovió y me dejo un grato sabor de boca.
The Rwandan genocide lasted only about one hundred days, but in that brief span of time, the ruling Hutus brutally murdered over their Tutsi countrymen.
For starters, I can walk down the street without fear that my neighbors could chop me to pieces.Another thing I loved about this book is how the author, Immaculée, immersed herself in prayer during her 91 day stay in a tiny bathroom with six other women.
I have to be honest, I don't really want to read this book because it hurts my heart too much.
I heard Immaculee speak at a banquet.
I was captivated by her story (while I sobbed), and found myself marveling at how vastly different our life can be, even in our modern world.
I recommend this book to everyone (even though I have not read it), because it is an unbeleiveable story.
Overall, it's a book about learning to forgive, and not letting hatred rule your life.
This book is much like "The Hiding Place" in its focus on forgiveness and God's love and support through such great trials. It is very difficult to get through, with details of the violence and horror that were a part of this genocide. Very disturbing. Most distressing to me though, was how much about this event I didn't know. It's hard to imagine that we live in a world where things like this happen, and we don't tune in or send help. I think of W. H. Auden's poem, "Musee des Beaux Arts," and I am ashamed.
For all the books I have read in my lifetime, none have touched me and inspired me and challenged my faith as this one. The reality and really words Ilibagiza uses to describe the horror that affected an entire country startled me. I cried through every chapter. I thought of God on every page. I'll never be the same after reading this book. Anyone who reads my review, read this book. Read it! Read it with a compassionate and open heart and your world will be changed.
Marvelous personal story of her being saved from a massacre. I did meet her at a conference where Wayne Dyer was sponsoring her as a speaker.
When Immaculee reunites with a family friend, Jean Paul, she says “The genocide is happening in people’s hearts...The killers are good people, but right now evil has a hold on their hearts”(Ilibagiza 144).
She is learning to forgive what happened to her family in the genocide but she will never forget.I would recommend Left To Tell because it takes you through a journey of faith, courage, leadership and of never giving up.I feel like adults would enjoy Left To Tell more because it talks about wars and killings.
Here is a thought from Elder Holland (fireside address, "Lessons from Liberty Jail", September 2008) that I thought went along well with the overall message of the book..."...when you have to, you can have sacred, revelatory, profoundly instructive experience with the Lord in any situation you are in.
Indeed, let me say that even a little stronger: You can have sacred, revelatory, profoundly instructive experience with the Lord in the most miserable experiences of your life—in the worst settings, while enduring the most painful injustices, when facing the most insurmountable odds and opposition you have ever faced.Now let’s talk about those propositions for a moment.
Ce témoignage est juste impossible à noter pour moi, je ne peux donner une étoile ou cinq étoiles à une femme qui a vécu un génocide et qui s'est reconstruite avec force et acharnement...
Je ne pouvais m'empercher de me dire que ces atrocités ont eux lieux en 1994, qu'encore en 2017 y a un génocide qui se perpétue sous nos yeux....
Je n'ai pas pu m’empêcher de faire le lien aussi à la décennie noir qui a eu lieu en Algérie....Tout le monde doit lire ce bouquin, pour ressentir ce que c'est qu'un génocide, ce que c'est que de voir toute sa famille décapitée....
For a reader like me, I was already vested in the political atrocities of Africa and I wanted the book to explore this further.
I'm glad she told the story, but I'm concerned for the unsuspecting soul who picks this up just to get a religious high.
I just don't want people to think..
Clearly, many people died including her parents, brothers, little children (born and unborn)..Were they any less religious as Immaculee?
for those who could, I'm sure they were just as religious and faithful has her..
I think Steve Erwin could have helped to tell this story better.
