https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/750407.The_Book_of_Ebenezer_Le_Page
•	A non-religious man who respects the beliefs of others and enjoys pondering religion.•	A fisherman who can’t swim.•	A man who doesn’t read much, but treasures Robinson Crusoe, albeit in part as a lesson in the dangers of travel!•	A loner who sacrifices time, effort, and money, “always trying to arrange happy lives for other people”, overlooking his own needs, even though he knows that “perhaps I put things wrong when I tried to put things right.” •	A moral man who commits minor fraud for many years.•	A man who doesn’t like the idea of homosexuality, but is accepting of and sympathetic to gay men he encounters.
“The great rocks was not rocks, nor the sea sea, yet they was real as real; and the clouds was gates of glory, and every way I turned my eyes the view was waves of joy and golden light.”(480)  There is a place where waves of two seas meet, to blend the water of their different shades, the grey ones barging in from insulated shores, embrace the foam of the silver redemptive sea.Ebenezer Le Page sits in Les Moulins, his granite house where he has lived all his life on the Channel Island of Guernsey, and writes.
The patois Ebenezer used in his very conversational narration was a fun and constant reminder of the local color.
The older generation played an important role when Ebenezer was young and the younger generation got its due when he was old.
There’s something appealing about an energized old-timer who wants his life to have meant something, wants his perspective to have registered, and wants some kind of legacy to mark his existence despite the long odds.
It’s like a fine wine: improved with age, boasting a great finish.
In real life, G.B. Edwards befriended a young artist who inspired him to write this pseudo-quasi-memoir in old age.
Ebenezer liked that.
Those who feel offended by spoilers, be strong and just skip it as usual.Well now, let me spell out what got me reading this book day and night.
(hide spoiler)]He is a fictional, 80-year-old gentleman who decided to write down his memories of his life on Guernsay Island.
It is not that I want to say much; but I like to sit in a corner and listen to people talking, and put in my spoke now and then.
Ebenezer Le Page took the time to share his own experiences of the old and new in his memoir.
Ebenezer views these changes as a sort of “end” to Guernsey life as he has always known it, and unwittingly becomes a human parallel to its terminative quality when he finds himself inching imminently closer to his own mortality with no one left to extend his legacy, or at least no one he deems “Guernsey” enough.
He thus spends a large chunk of his remaining days deciding to whom he should bequeath his property while simultaneously composing a memoir of his life, a memoir that becomes The Book of Ebenezer Le Page.This is one of the easiest five-star ratings I’ve ever applied to a book.
The Book of Ebenezer Le Page is the kind of novel you don't really know in its truest sense until you've reached the very end.
A loner, a rascal, and a textbook example of a curmudgeon, Ebenezer gets the itch, in what he assumes are his final days, to write out the story of his life, the people he has known, and Guernsey itself.
What results is the hodgepodge of humor, poignancy, and earthy philosophy known as The Book of Ebenezer Le Page.
A man in his twilight years recounting the story of life?
This book pierced my heart and left an aching void. It covers the scale of human nature from wondrous to pure meanness, the depth and range of our emotions, and recalls the importance to a life of the few true connections one really makes in a lifetime. I hope to soon write a more complete review. I should say here though that I didn't see the narrator as the "cantankerous" old man the publisher describes, a description that held me back from reading this for a couple of years.
But sometimes they are so vividly drawn that they seem to pop off the page, and you look up, almost expecting to see them sitting across from you spinning a yarn or telling you their life story.
Ebenezer Le Page is such a narrator.
The pace of his story is unhurried and seems to meander at times.
But rather than being a chore, this is one of the delights of the book.
It is difficult to review a book like this, and others have done a better job than I could do.
The Book of Ebenezer Le Page is sweetly old-fashioned and painstakingly humane and it exudes an aura of the best classical works.It is a story of a man and an island…“The older I get and the more I learn, the more I know I don't know nothing, me.
And The Book of Ebenezer Le Page is a story of an island.A man is a splinter of the humankind but like a splinter of a mirror, it reflects the entire humanity.
And The Book of Ebenezer Le Page is a story of a man.“I don't like people who preach.
I often think 'So, are these people appreciating it for what it is or are they REALLY enjoying it this much?'.How can a book about a somewhat normal existence, (which in all is rather boring) strike me so hard?
At the end, some of us find ourselves alone; we are the last ones left and have no one to leave our items to, those pieces of us to not be forgotten.As it is humorous and sad, I didn't truly appreciate it until the last 60 pages.
I appreciate it for its simplicity, it's message and I enjoy it for what it is.
No she wasn't born on the small island of Guernsey where Ebenezer Le Page lives but in a small city in a neighborhood about which she always has many stories to tell , some of which sound unbelievably similar to the things that Ebenezer writes about in his books - courtships , and marriages and children , a father's love.
It is something more,' The same thing could be said about this book - it is Ebenezer's story , yet it is not Ebenezer's story .
Basically my take was that Edwards has created a truly memorable character (Ebenezer Le Page) and a fascinating milieu (the closeted island of Guernsey) but ultimately simply isn’t a very good novelist when it comes to organisational artistry.
A fairy story motif provides the scaffolding for this fictional memoir – Ebenezer buries a crock of gold under the apple tree in his garden.
However I’m not sure Edwards saw the irony of this sentimental and dangerous stance – he ultimately rewards Ebenezer and so creates an ideal of him - and again this drew attention to his shortcomings as a novelist.
And by part three, most of the important things in his life have already happened, and we are left with the feeling of being out of time--we are stranded on an island with Ebenezer, looking for a bit of humanity when everyone we love has gone.
Now is probably a good time to stop reading this stupid fucking inarticulate review, and go get a copy of this book.
i see them here, in the book of ebenezer le page, presented as the reminisces of a very old man, who is from the channel island of guernsey, and has watched the world change from his little stone house, as it moves through some of the most chaotic moments in history.
liza is as complex as character as i've stumbled across but she is never understood, even by raymond, the radiant and tortured soul at the heart of this book who distrusts women, and rails against them.
It's like sitting at the kitchen table, well past 2 a.m., with grand-père offering his reminiscences on a life well-lived.
And as with all of grand-père's tales, they were vibrant and interesting until about 1:30 a.m. Then they became a little tedious, not the least of which because you'd heard them all before, several times.It is also very much a mood book.
To my surprise, this book had all the echoes of all those villages we visited, all the people we met.
A love song to his native island of Guernsey, from which he lived in exile for most of his adult life, a monumental fresco of its windblown vistas, its secretive and proud inhabitants, its cultural heritage rapidly disappearing under the pressure of modern technology and commercial interests, the novel is like a drop of amber preserving for posterity the 'slice of life' as seen through the cantankerous, wickedly funny, heartbreakingly lonely eyes of Ebenezer Le Page, the oldest inhabitant of the island, looking back to his long life and how it was affected by the radical changes of the 20th Century.It is only the very old now who can fully understand this: what it means to have known, in the one lifespan, both a time when city streets were full of horses, the car not yet invented, and a time when man stood on the moon; or even more incomprehensibly, both a time when even the most terrible weapons could kill a few hundred at most, and a time when their power risks entire cities -and their aftermath, whole countries.
The complete appreciation of this fact has also made one other thing clear: my review of The Book of Ebenezer Le Page has also been woefully MIA.
This was the same stretch of highway, at around the same time, on an average day.
Our average, normal lives are wonder-filled insightful things which allow us, as human beings, to penetrate to the deepest questions and issues of our existence.
Ebenezer Le Page was a normal, average guy (in his own way).
Every aspect of human existence plays out in the world of Ebenezer Le Page.
I would not be too far off the mark to conjecture that Edwards left traces of himself in the narrator and breathed his own observations of life into this remarkable novel.This is a fictional memoir of an 80-year-old Guernsey man, Ebenezer Le Page, who lived through two world wars.
Reading this book in Guernsey patois is like listening to an old grandpa tell you the story of his life and Guernsey itself.
I enjoyed reading about school life in the Channel Island of Guernsey and their local food (e.g., salted pig, spider crab, ormers).
Ebenezer Le Page has to be my all-time favourite cantankerous old man.
writes John Fowles in the introduction to this epic novel about Guernseyman Ebenezer La Page.
The sweep of this life comes with every possible detail and name of friends and relations imaginable (and it seems most people on Guernsey, an island world unto itself in the English Channel, are somehow related).
Ebenezer writes his life story as one might speak it over decades of kitchen table chatter to a very good friend.
This book is not just a journey through somebody else's life, but through a land that is as much a character in the story as any of the people.
Time, which changes people, does not alter the image we have of them.- Marcel Proust The Book of Ebenezer Le Page was completed in 1974; it was never seen published by its author, Gerald Basil Edwards (1899-1976)Ebenezer's memoir relates provincial life on the Isle of Guernsey, in gradual inevitable motion, affected by The Great War and the German Occupation in WWII, on toward the second half of the twentieth century.
He notes the changes on the island, the Guernsey life he has loved and lived- of cows and farms and close relationships, its community of people whom for generations have been on the island, such that perhaps inbreeding might have occurred more frequently than said.
(And don't mention that Potato Peel book because I haven't read it yet and also I know where it takes place.)I like island life.
Everyone knows each others' stories, something that is beautiful and annoying all at the same time because the insularity can sometimes be really glaring there.Le Page writes about island life too, and in great detail.
Everyone on Le Page's island is related in some way, and he likes to tell us about each of them.
Personally, though, I could not imagine being in any way drawn to pick up either of the other two books if they did exist.
I like this novel, but it didn't make quite the impression on me that it seems to have made on others – I wonder if the dramatic story of how it came to light at the very end of the author's life just made me want it to be more than it is.
The narrative mode is simple and declarative, and a good example (pace the advice of countless writers' groups) that telling rather than showing can be a nicely effective way of writing a novel when the narrative voice is sufficiently interesting.
It's certainly the most interesting novel to come out of Guernsey since Hugo's 
Partaking in this ‘memoir’ straight off the back of Proust’s ISOLT proved a delicious immersion in in Queneau-stic ‘exercises in style’: how many ways can you parse a memory, bind over the past, resurrect it in the corner of the eye? This quirky gem defies genre-fication. Liberally doused with Guernsey patois, the narrative falls into a dry, terpsichorean cadence wringing out pitch perfect amelioration from Franco-English linguistic start-ups.A soporifically paced ‘domestic scene’ memory beginning languidly but assuredly circumbobulates and imbibes the historical gamut of the two world wars, refracted through the kaleidoscope of Guernsey-provincial sensibilities. A true voyeur’s paradise.
I left Thee in anger, I knew not Thy worth,Journeyed afar, to the ends of the earth,Was told of far countries, the heaven of the hold,Where the soil gave up diamonds, silver and gold.The sun always shone, and ‘Race’ took no part,But Thy cry always reached me, its pain wrenched my heart,So I’m coming home, Thou of all art the best,Returning to greet Thee, Dear Island of Rest.  (G. A. Deighton)G B Edwards created through Ebenezer le page, a vehicle to give vent to his own most candid expression, h
I doubt everything I hear, even if I say it myself; and, after the things I have been through and seen happen to other people on this island and known to have happened in the world, I sometimes wonder about the existence of God: but I know I am Ebenezer Le Page.Surprisingly, unmarried all his life and living it on his own terms with his own straight-forward rules or no rules at all.
For the sake of a single poem, you must see many cities, many people and Things, you must understand animals, must feel how birds fly, and know the gesture which small flowers make when they open in the morning.
You must be able to think back to streets in unknown neighborhoods, to unexpected encounters, and to partings you had long seen coming; to days of childhood whose mystery is still unexplained, to parents whom you had to hurt when they brought in a joy and you didn’t pick it up (it was a joy meant for somebody else—); to childhood illnesses that began so strangely with so many profound and difficult transformations, to days in quiet, restrained rooms and to mornings by the sea, to the sea itself, to seas, to nights of travel that rushed along high overhead and went flying with all the stars, and it is still not enough to be able to think of all that.
I am going to let this book gestate a bit before commenting too much about it.
I will say it is one of the most heart-warming books I have ever read.
Though there are many characters in the book it is apparent later on that the reader becomes somewhat intimate with the ones worthy of our warmest feelings.
The written quality of the book sneaks up on you.
It is an easy book to discount at first glance, but it is a grave mistake if you do so enough to set it down for good.
Ebenezer Le Page writes in English, but an English veined with French inflections and phrases from the French dialect of the island—mainly guessable if you know French, though you may be puzzled by j’sis fier (“I’m glad [to hear it]”) or chonna, in the sense of cela.The local color, and the sense of cultural distinctness, is one of the elements I liked most in the book.
Fowles tells us that Edwards resisted any editorial intervention in the novel, even when it was rejected by a whole series of publishers.
Eighty year old Ebenezer, who has spent every day of his life on Guernsey, tells here of what happened one afternoon:It was sun and cloud and wind and very cold, and yet for some reason I thought I would go in a churchyard before I went home.
He remarked, on hearing the blank book’s price: “That’s a lot for a book with no writing in it.” And then there is this line, which isn’t funny but is just so wonderful: “It takes two to make a painting: the chap who paints it and the one who looks at it.” Ebenezer’s view on art, well it is the same as mine.
Harumph!As Ebenezer tells the story of his life, it is obvious he is a keen observer of human nature: the small community of people, many of whom are related, living on the 25-square mile island gives him endless opportunities and most of what he sees, he does not particularly like.
The island of Guernsey itself becomes a main character in this tale which reads like a memoir.
This is a book I can imagine reading again to spend more time with our good friend, Ebenezer, and the island of Guernsey.
Over in one corner there is an unoccupied stool, next to an old man who appears to be alone.
Soon the dialogue becomes more of a monologue, but you don't mind because he is quite a teller of tales and his language, impregnated with the local dialect, is rich and lyrical.He tells you about his mother, a devoutly religious woman; about the petty rivalry between his aunts and his friendship with his cousins one of whom, Raymond, was a particularly close confidant.
So pull up a chair, get yourself a pint of bitter and let old Ebenezer tell you his story, in his leisurely and unique way.
