https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1200458.Listening_Valley
I have just finished reading it and am feeling a little sad, because I would have liked it to go on and on for a lot longer: but all good things must come to an end, as the saying goes...
I totally and whole-heartedly recommend this book to my Goodreads friends who are as passionate as I am about the progressive revival of these amazing women authors.I read this on the "Celia's House" page, and want to share it with you: "Finding a re-issued D E Stevenson novel is like finding a Tiffany lamp at Woolworth's."
I loved this endearing story of Tonia Melville as she emerges from her repressive cocoon and takes wing through the love of her older husband. Their relationship is very sweet and he is key to her finding herself. Her friends and neighbors that she surrounds herself with are interesting characters especially the Scottish people! This is one of my favorite books of D.E. Stevenson.
Poor Tonia is left alone without her sister, without Nannie or anyone to love her or help her.
I loved the connection to the Dunnes and learning more about both Celia's, my favorite characters who didn't get enough page time in Celia's House.
I liked and identified with both Lou and Tonia.
I am also like Tonia - shy and going away to a place in my head where I can dream of more pleasant things.
I loved her character development.
Lou probably wouldn't have let people walk all over her and would have figured out what was what quickly.Daisy is lovely.
War & Romance I had read Celia's House first & even though they tell you it is not necessary to read Celia's House to enjoy Listening Valley, I am glad I did because the story becomes clearer & complete. I loved these two books & I will be looking into more of her books. This book had some mystery to it as well as wartime story line which is very interesting being it was written in 1944. Loved it!
Re-read as audiobook.
Such a gentle, comforting book--vintage D.E. Stevenson with its Scottish setting, family dynamics, and normal-with-a-backbone heroine. I always enjoy her World War II books, which are clearly so based on her own life and the stories she heard as a military wife.Very glad that Sourcebooks has republished some of of Stevenson's books and hope they do more.
In this old-fashioned romance/Cinderella story, a young woman is initially overshadowed by her parents and sister but gradually comes into her own with help from new friends and neighbors. Most of this enjoyable story is set in a charming, small town in Scotland during WWII, but the reader also gets a picture of London during the Blitz.
A good light read featuring wartime Britain and written in 1944.https://piningforthewest.co.uk/2018/0...
I'm a huge fan of Stevenson's Mrs. Tim stories, I own them all, but it's hard to get her others if you don't want to buy them, and I'm trying to downsize my home library, not increase it.
Unfortunately I didn't love this book like I do her Mrs. Tim and Miss Buncle stories, though I did basically enjoy it.
And it's hard for me to enjoy a really passive heroine.
NB - The book is a sort of follow up to Celia's House, which I haven't read yet.
I didn't feel that I was missing any important info not having read the first one.
Many of the allusions to family names in Listening Valley make more sense if you've read the first book.
And unlike most of her books, Stevenson takes a cavalier approach to marriage in this one (as she did in Shoulder the Sky) when she writes about a man who kindly divorces his wife so she can be happy with another.Best quote: "They were such trifles to remember, but it was trifles like this that made up your life, and if there was somebody who could share them with you, understandingly, it made life a paradise."
Lovely companion to "Celia's House." I was glad to see a few of the characters from that book again.
Instead of a green smoothie (that can be hard to get down but is very nutrient-dense and we should all have more of that, but just don't do it often enough, right?) this is more like homemade chicken pot-pie with wholesome veggies and lots of buttery crust.
I like this author.
Yep, another old lady gives away a house.
Where's my old Scottish Auntie I wonder?
I want a sweet old house.
Who doesn't love reading a cozy WWII novel in one sitting? Is there a better way to start a new year?
You made Antonia dependent upon you -”“Robert, you must be mad!” cried Lou, who was completely taken aback at this reversal of the tables.“You made her dependent upon you instead of trying to bring her forward and encouraging her to stand on her own feet, and then, quite suddenly, without the slightest warning, you went away and left her.”“Listening Valley” follows mainly through the course of Tonia’s life, through war-time, meeting soldiers, gathering moss (yes, I did write that.
“To tell the truth it’s difficult to believe that even the Almighty Himself could love Hitler and Goebbels and the rest of them.”“It is difficult,” agreed Tonia.“I asked the minister,” said Mrs. Smilie, nodding.
What a gem of a book!! Tonia is as dear a heroine as you can find. And, of course, Scotland is a character as well. All of this set against the backdrop of WWII, and the struggles and joy in a small highland village. Wonderful romance...wish I'd known about it when I was younger. Would have loved this even as a preteen.
The story starts with two girls, Lou and Antonia, who live a rather neglected life in Edinburgh with a grumpy father and bridge-obsessed mother.
She instantly feels at home in the village and makes great friends with her neighbor, Mrs. Smilie, and some of the local gentry.
When Mrs. Smilie discovers that she was spying on the nearby military camp, she flees the village, leaving Bay and Antonia free to declare their love for each other.There were several aspects of the book that I liked.
I was happy that the May-December romance between Antonia and Robert turned out so well.
Tonia and her sister Lou grow up thick as thieves in a world apart from their extremely detached parents and the other kids in town.
Tonia particularly is dreamier and more sensitive than the gregarious Lou. Whenever things become too much, she retreats to that quiet and calm place in her mind she dubs Listening Valley.
This time is not to last, however, and Tonia eventually finds herself back in Scotland attempting to refashion her life once more.Above all, this is a sweet story about life and growing up, leaving home, and finding it again.
The novel began with lots of promise, with frail, quiet Tonia and her lively attractive sister Lou growing up within a dysfunctional family and exploring the world around them.
She eschews Robert's large Edinburgh home, leaving it to be occupied by his difficult sister and her equally unlikable daughter, in favor of the smaller home once occupied by her great-aunt Antonia, Tonia's namesake.
There she meets a lively group of British and American pilots who fill her life in various ways.I felt the first half of the novel was the strongest, with the relationship between the two odd, interesting little girls.
The story follows her adventures with her more daring sister Lou, the press of her absent parent, her strange first marriage, her freedom in her legacy and finally a troubled romance.
Such a delightfully comfortable book to read.The characters are sketched nicely but the thing I feel lacking is the deepness and attachment to them.
I've been trying to figure out what it was that bothered me about her stories.
However the overall book gave me a very pleasant feeling.Update: I gave it a reread after reading Celia's House.
I have more appreciation for it, the growth of Antonia is lovely, enduring and well done.
Nevertheless, it's Antonia and her sister who are the main portion of the plot at the beginning, and there is much about their symbiotic relationship until Lou runs off with Jack, which leaves odd little Tonia bereft.Fortunately, our dear little heroine is rescued by a (much older) prince of a fellow who helps her gain confidence.
Antonia must deal with leechy relatives, spies, and grumpy trustees before true love really comes along and sweeps her away to a satisfying ending.Written during WWII, featuring England and Scotland, Listening Valley is filled with lively characters and memorable detail.
It pulled me in and kept me reading, but it is still not among my very favorites for this author, although I know it is for my daughter and other friends. I like Tonia, the main character, very much. I like her marriage to an older man, who carefully builds her up from the neglectful and careless upbringing of her parents. It really is a good book.
Another gem by Stevenson! It started out a bit dark but I started loving it about a third of the way through. Read "Celia's House" first as some of the same characters make an appearance in this book as well.
Read this book after reading Celia's HouseI liked this book better than Celia's House, but I was glad I read it second. Many of the characters in CH come up in this book. It's delightful!
Not her best
Love being in Scotland with D E Stevenson.
Another easy but enjoyable read by this author.
Perhaps I just need to read another author for a while; I’ve been on a bit of a DE Stevenson marathon lately.
I did find it interesting to read about people’s experiences of the war year from an author who actually lived through them and likely heard soldiers’ and pilots’ accounts first hand.
At times, I feel her portrayal of interpersonal relationships are a bit too whitewashed, but I suppose this is what made it acceptable in that day and age.
All in all, I enjoyed it as good relaxing bedtime reading, not likely to give nightmares!
I read this because somewhere on the internet someone claimed it was their favorite book and raved about it. I liked it OK, but it wasn't a real standout for me. It is about a younger sister who must strike out and make a life for herself after living in the shadow of her sister. She manages to have a good life and do well, but it wasn't a story that stayed with me.
I flew through this book! I really enjoyed it. I love historical fiction and war time stories. I really liked the main character too. It’s definitely a warm and fuzzy type of book with a happy ending
Clean read and loved the pace. Fell slowly in love with this little gem!
I enjoyed this book. The author has a rhythm of a different time but beautifully written.
Such a sweet story set during WW II.
