https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/758496.A_Writer_s_Notebook
Building on Darwin’s and Lylle’s pioneering work in dethroning God, by 1882 Nietzsche could declare in The Gay Science that “God is dead.” Long before Hitler, the concept of Social Darwinism, which adapted the survival of the fittest regime to humans, fueled all sorts of pathologies, many of them still alive and well today.Recently I read an article titled “Harvard’s Eugenics Era” by Adam Cohen, which, in appearing in the Harvard Magazine, is the institution’s partial coming to terms with a sordid history a century after the fact.
I took this to the park earlier today not knowing this and started reading it and was amused at Maugham's offhanded apologies for the defects of the thinking in his youthful writings herein and also for his self-congratulations for allowing them to stay in uncensored, though the claim is frought with falsity to some degree given that the notebook is the result of intensive selection from several volumes -- in other words, stuff is omitted.
And, even if Maugham is not censoring his earlier self, his older self cannot help but interject a running commentary on his youthful stuff.

This is a weird read.
I was surprised that I liked it.
It is a collection of Maugham's notebook entries from the turn of the 20th century to 1949, minus his notes on India.
There is, of course, much more, ranging from brief scenarios for hypothetical novels or short stories to random observations about human nature.
He waxes philosophical about the meaning of life and about the validity of religion, as well.
An interesting glimpse into a writer's thoughts and inspirations.
His jottings through life, from 1892 to 1949. Lots of amusing anecdotes. eg.· Unselfish parents have selfish children.· Fools don’t become less foolish when they grow old, and an old fool is infinitely more tiresome than a young one.
1892-1944
The one star is not for the content but for the layout of this particular edition.
Please look at the 'Look Inside' part before purchasing.
You will notice that each observation is given a line and there is no division between the lines.
They all run into one another.The original hardback copy has each observation distinctly separate from all the rest.
This journal is not designed to be read from cover to cover as it is an edited collection of his observations over decades.
Others are just some throw away lines.Hardback copies are easy to find.

It was really interesting to read these excerpts of Maugham`s notebooks, for the book is exactly what its title states.
Except for the preface and for the last pages which were written to give an introduction and a closure to the book respectively, the rest of it consists of a series of sketches, descriptive passages, thoughts on politics and plots that could have been the basis for a short story or a novel and were later disregarded by the author.
Notwithstanding the sometimes disjointed character of the book it is undoubtedly a good read for anyone interested in Maugham´s life and works.
I am often very fond of Maugham's novels, but I just couldn't finish this, basically a collection of bits from his journals. I couldn't stay interested in the fragments, and I recoiled from the occasional unpleasant observation about women or non-European people. Sorry, Willie, back on the shelf you go -- maybe I'll take another whack in a few years.
Discovered this book recently and REALLY enjoyed it. The combination of character sketches and insight into historical events due to the author's presence there (e.g., the Russian Revolution of 1917) was deeply engrossing.This book led me to seek out other writer's notebooks, e.g., the Journal of Jules Renard.
A patchy read that is all swings and roundabouts. There are some stunning insights into a writer's mind and some worrying ones as well. I'd recommend flicking through it but nothing else.
I loved watching the change in Maugham's style as he grew older. Not the most entertaining, but if you're a fan of his writing, you'll appreciate it.
I just skimmed it cover to cover and read extracts I found interesting. Got an insight into how a great writer like Maugham keeps his writer's notebook.
Full of insights, full of ideas. It's worth a reading for every fan of Somerset Maugham.
