https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/8146619-the-right-stuff
No one was able to determine the cause of the incident (even after the capsule was recovered from the ocean floor thirty years later) but the universal consensus among NASA's engineers and astronauts was that mechanical failure couldn't be ruled out, and that Grissom deserved the benefit of the doubt.For some reason, Wolfe decided that Grissom, despite having been a combat veteran and despite the fact that the most dangerous stages of the mission (launch and re-entry) were behind him, had panicked and blown the hatch himself.
reading this book was such an eye-opener.
I'll never forget the pure pleasure I had reading this book, as well as the great satire that was, that is, Bonfire Of The Vanities.***Yee-hawwww!!!
Tom Wolfe's 1979 book about the American space race is a high-octane non-fiction masterpiece.Wolfe's maximalist style – full of exclamation marks!!!
Even if you've seen the terrific Philip Kaufman film, I highly recommend reading this ridiculously entertaining and informative book that tells you a lot about the space program, the Cold War, the rise of mass media, gender roles and even (near the end) the race issue.And just for fun, try reading some passages aloud.
(Whatever device you’re reading this on right now has more computing power than all of NASA had at the time.) It looks more like a toy, something that a kid might have in his backyard to play rocket ship, rather than a vehicle that actually took a man into space.
That’s the kind of thing that shows that Yeager had the right stuff practically dripping out of his pores and put him at the top of the test pilot pyramid.Yet when the Soviets launched Sputnik and America scrambled to catch up Yeager wasn’t seriously considered as an astronaut candidate, and to many of the other test pilots who were setting speed records and pushing the boundary of space anyhow in their rocket propelled aircraft it was only a matter of time until they'd be flying into space anyhow.
Good GRIEF, somebody please remind me about this the next time I think I will read a Tom Wolfe book.
I'm one of those people who, constitutionally, cannot ignore an exclamation point on the printed page, so reading this was like being shouted at for great lengths of time.
I'm sure I've seen the movie countless times, mostly in parts on cable, but I had never read the book and that didn't seem right.
I'm not even sure it seems right now, either, but I will say that for a book that I found almost painful to read, I have absolutely no doubt it informs just about every image we have of the space race and NASA in popular culture.
A quite good read, but not really what I would expect from Wolfe.
This makes the first third a bit slow and drawn out as we're repeatedly hammered by the problem with the start of the Mercury program being that the pilot-cum-astronauts would not be required, or even able to, use their flying skills.
The race with Russia was full on from the start and the feats being accomplished under their program, with little forewarning or insights, is compared to the "Chief Designer" and the "Integral" of Zamyatin's "We".
As it is, it's well worth reading.
Thus Tom Wolfe pulls us into Chuck Yeager's world in Muroc in the 1940's when the sound barrier is about to be broken and segues us into the original Seven - the chosen ones with the righteous, righteous stuff, the first men into space.
Easily one of the best books I've read this year, and one of those books I kick myself for having put off for so long.
It possesses the very best of Wolfe; Kesey-like humor, Heller-like shrewdness and Steinbeck-like depth.
Unlike so many biographical or journalistic books, it managed to make me feel for these people as well as inform me about them.
It examines many rungs in our social hierarchies, and never forgets who deserves the most sympathy - not the hero, not who forces the hero to become the hero, but the people who are helpless to do anything but watch as their loved ones ascend.
The Right Stuff aged well, managing in this recent read to deliver relevant and insightful commentary about an intensely fascinating historical period amidst the Cold War. From Edwards Air Force Base in the high desert of southern California to the new space centers at Cape Canaveral and Houston, this story is packed full of colorful topics, including early spaceflights, astronaut rivalries and astronaut wives, the end of the golden age of flight, and the author’s chosen super-pilot, Chuck Yeager.Much of the work’s magic comes from the wondrous way in which Wolfe blended teaching and entertaining.
At several intervals, Wolfe compares the accomplishments of the rocket pilots (especially the X-15 pilots such as Robert White, Neil Armstrong and Joe Walker) to the accomplishments (really lack thereof) of the Mercury astronauts.
Wolfe is saying that the X-15 pilots (who were really piloting their crafts, as opposed to being mere occupants like the Mercury guys) were never given the recognition they were due.
This book genuinely gets the adrenaline pumping.
There's a scene where Chuck Yeager takes an NF-104 up to 110,000 feet (about 10 miles into "space"), then looses control and goes into a spin, plummeting to 20,000 feet before regaining enough control to safely eject.
Then the seat gets tangled in the parachute lines and spills corrosive fuel (why was there corrosive fuel in the chair?) on his face and hand.
He fights through the intense pain of melting eyeball to free up the parachute and land safely, maintaining his cool through the ordeal.
I still defy anyone to read the first chapter, as Wolfe follows the path of a plane crash through the trees, and not be dazzled by his style.
I also enjoyed the pilot's humor.Sometimes the prose went past poetic and into repetitious.
While I don't always understand why the NASA administrators fought astronauts (Deke Slayton), I really didn't get why Wolfe seems to have gone after Gus Grissom.
I plan to rewatch the film also - it's been decades.Addendum June 2017 - read the referenced biography and another book on the early space program (Into That Silent Sea: Trailblazers of the Space Era, 1961-1965).
In Grissom's case, for example, the book mentioned panic (and then pride) as a possibility, where the film made it a certainty.
But Tom Wolfe didn’t write The Right Stuff to be correct about all the historical details, he wrote it to entertain and inspire, telling a marvelous tale of human ingenuity and courage while demonstrating how us normal folk respond to the presence of those extraordinary few who change history.
In this sense, the book is an amalgamation of the top-down “great man” view of history and the bottom-up “everyday man” view, showing how, even in the moment, society exalts certain world-changing men and places them on a gigantic pedestal, for better or worse.Wolfe’s work traces the story of NASA’s Mercury Program, that launched the first men in space.
It's Flying & Drinking and Drinking & Driving and Dicing with Death and doing anything to climb the pure pyramid of macho essence.Most of us don't live in this world, but Wolfe reconstructs how for a few years in the early 60s, with the mighty and infallible Soviet Chief Designer beating the pants out of the American space program, the Mercury Seven became Cosmic Knights, Single Combat Champions of Truth, Justice, and the American Way, and the entire nation became caught up in the sage of The Right Stuff.
Wolfe records the contradictions and absurdities of the fighter pilot lifestyle, and how they became tied up with America and the space race, with the utmost respect and tenderness.
I have always been a gig fan of the film version of The Right Stuff but never got around to reading the source material, which is surprising since I really like Tom Wolfe. This is stellar non-fiction. It is funny and incredibly informative. If you never got around to it, like me, give it a spin.
With his much-celebrated The Right Stuff the recently departed journalist/novelist/sartorialist seemed born to document this important era of American history, and the men who helped anchor it.It had been some time since I’d first read The Right Stuff; so long in fact that I can’t quite pinpoint whether it was in high school or college.
Wolfe superbly details the inception of the American space program through the lens of the Mercury Seven (and their wives), the group hand-selected to compete with Russia in the race to outer space.
And it was Tom Wolfe who made these men household names, even if for only a short while.
Forrest Gump goes to space.
He's the third American in space, and we've just been reading about Alan Shepard's and Gus Grissom's flights (thrilling, but less so than you'd expect).
But then, John Glenn floats around the earth three times, seeing continents and clouds, and the sunrise...and, reader, I wept.
Tom Wolfe evokes the majesty, mystery, and overwhelming-ness of outer space and of seeing the entire world spin beneath you.It was the middle of the night in Australia, but they stayed up with their lights on so he could see them.
In fact, after reading The Right Stuff, I decided that Mr. Wolfe has earned the spot of my favorite living author.The novel opens where navy pilots push the science of flight beyond the envelope, just prior to the advent of the US Space Program.
These daredevils were men of talent, grit and without fear - they had "the right stuff" as author Wolfe proclaims.
Wolfe tells the story of the astronauts who, although they were these same men with the "right stuff," were now glorified monkeys strapped to rockets.
They were called the “original seven” and they were considered the greatest pilots and the bravest men in America because they were pilots on the most daring flights in American history.
They possessed courage and honor but more importantly, they had all the “right stuff”.How awesome would it be to live during this time when America was putting men in space and there was a surge of patriotism throughout the country?
Tom Wolfe did an excellent job and I recommend this book to anyone who has an interest in the space program or anyone who just wants to read a well written nonfiction book about one of this country’s greatest achievements.
Tom Wolfe is in his own class.
He navigates the reader through the highly technical world of military flight test by finding the human drama.It's not just raw entertainment, either.
It's impossible to miss Johan Huizinga's ludic theory of human nature in Wolfe's explanation of the fighter jock ethos.
And Wolfe's depiction of the nationwide fervor over the Mercury 7 astronauts recalls Paul Johnson's point about the American vulnerability to periodic convulsions of shared madness.
He throws out big ideas in parentheses - e.g. the Cold War ended with the lack of reaction to JFK's assassination by a Communist with Cuban ties, etc.
Nearly perfect, from the cold open to the elegiac closing.
I got so I couldn't stand the plethora, the multitude, the excessive amount of hyperbole, of italicized words/phrases, of exclamation points!
Lest you think I exaggerate, I'll open the book to random pages:p.
208 - two exclamatory sentencesp.
209 - one exclamatory sentencep.
292 - two exclamatory sentences and two italicized phrasesp.
356 - two italicized phrasesp.
357 - eight exclamatory sentences!
and four italicized phrases.Really?
I could keep opening to random pages but you get the idea, don't you?
By the end of the book, I found the style so distracting that it kept pulling me away from the content!Goodness!
Always been somewhat fascinated by space travel, so this may be a little more in my wheelhouse than for others. That said, I wouldn't hesitate to recommend this book to anybody. Whether the subject is the genesis of NASA and the Mercury Program, the individual sub-orbital and orbital missions, or broader discussion of the space race with the Soviet Union, the writing moves at a breakneck pace and captivated me from open to close. There is some especially great stuff about the dangers faced by the test pilots of the first manned rocket flights. And, of course, Yeager.
Nonfiction at its finest.TRS remembers a time when astronauts were thought of as big damn heroes. So sad how quickly we all moved on.
He sets the stage for two decades worth of pushing that barrier, of young test pilots climbing the great pyramid of having the right stuff, and rushing towards the Space Age under the eager eye of the U.S. government.
Wolfe writes in a thrilling and absolutely hilarious way, making you chuckle about test pilot quotes and medical procedures on pretty much every second page.
It was the build up to the Gemini and Apollo programs, which decided the space race not even ten years later, and a true homage to all the pilots and astronauts who lost their lives along the way.
E' un libro paradigmatico e per uomini (non tanto "veri", come titolava il film, assai bruttino, tratto qualche anno fa da questo libro), perchè traccia le coordinate di un mondo a parte - le gesta più o meno epiche dei primi sette astronauti americani - profondamente virile, protestante e bianco, straripante ormoni e cameratismo, assolutamente falso ma immensamente reale sotto la penna scintillante di Wolfe che sa disossare e riplasmare con la sua prosa onnivora qualunque concetto, anche il più urticante, il più ideologicamente e culturalmente fastidioso, e renderlo credibile, affascinante, mai scontato.
With the passing of Tom Wolfe, it's apropos to update this review. I read this book in the late 90s and despite the fact that it's a cliche often said about books, in this case it's absolutely true: "I couldn't put it down". This is highly inspirational journalism about Mercury 7 and the American men and women who where at the forefront of the space race, in a completely different time and place than now.
One of those books that makes you shocked to ponder never having read it. The beginning is masterful as it describes a pilots life, especially a test pilots life. A recounting of the history of the Mercury program that reaches into the lives of the astronauts and others and helps you to understand them. As a slice of history it is also brought alive. Growing up remembering the Apollo program this provides that history I was too young to know. Just brilliant.
Tom Wolfe, writing in his classic book The Right Stuff about the Mercury 7 astronauts, the first American men in space, gets directly to the heart of what made these men tick.
A career in flying was like climbing one of those ancient Babylonian pyramids made up of a dizzy progression of steps and ledges, a ziggurat, a pyramid extraordinarily high and steep; and the idea was to prove at every foot of the way up that pyramid that you were one of the elected and anointed ones who had the right stuff and could move higher and higher and even-ultimately, God willing, one day-that you might be able to join that special few at the very top, that elite who had the capacity to bring tears to men’s eyes, the very Brotherhood of the Right Stuff itself.” (P.17-8) Wolfe returns to the image of the ziggurat numerous times throughout the book, and it’s a perfect metaphor that lingers with the reader.
I wish that I had read this book before I watched the movie, because the story of the Mercury project is so surprising, and I felt like a lot of it was spoiled ahead of time for me.
But I’m glad I read it, Wolfe tells it in such an interesting way.
A few notes:- Wolfe frames the Space Race as a series of “single-combat” battles - two countries sending their best warrior to fight on behalf of everyone, like David and Goliath.
The way Wolfe tells everyone’s story from their eyes is what makes his writing-style so novel.
