https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/24814045-this-side-of-paradise-and-other-classic-works
(Though to the end Amory cherishes the thought of the girl who threw him over for someone with money, thereby demonstrating that in another age she could have matured into one of the Real Housewives of New Jersey or some other desolate spot.)But most unendurable is some of the experimental writing: all the captioning of short sections of text, the insertions of bad (but oh so earnest) poetry, the changes in style from narrative form to play-scripting.For me it's two-and-a-half stars tops.
Wow, I guess besides The Great Gatsby, F. Scott Fitzgerald really isn't for me. I didn't enjoy any of the pieces in this book and was actually pretty bored the entire time which is probably why it took me f o r e v e r to finish this book.
The bizarre structure of the book, at least to me, parallels the chaotic, ever-changing life of Amory; I especially love the play format of Rosalind's section, where the young lovers merely act out the motions of romance perhaps without ever really feeling it.
The sudden discussion of socialism in the last fifteen pages, which is simultaneously interesting and what every single boy educated in the northeast spews out at some point in his life.I get the criticism of this book - Amory can be extremely annoying, the writing is long-winded and naive, the plot is nonexistent.
And I can honestly think of rebuttals for all of those things but I won't write them.Anyways I love this book.
First off: I really highly disliked This Side of Paradise. Second Off: Fitzgerald really has a gift for short stories and I've never read such beautiful writing in such short work as I have his. I love Great Gatsby but I really wanted to read more of his novels and I'm really glad I finally finished this. All of his short stories were incredible and packed a punch, though he does have a tendency towards ending with a death, which is interesting. I actually cared much more for his short stories than his two main stories in this book.
