https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/92575.Concrete
In a sublime balance between grumpy and gorgeous, Bernhard exquisitely details a tortured mind as it projects it’s own self-dissatisfactions outward, latching on to every corner of society possible to avert any horrific inward gaze, while constructing a portrait of confined genius and giving voice to the dismay felt by those who hold the arts in high esteem.
I’ve always been fond of insufferable narrators, the type of people that I accept would probably be unbearable as a friend or to encounter in person, but I can’t help but loving their bitter, volatile personalities on paper.

It was an effective marriage between [indicate two somewhat related authors or styles such that their average approximates the book; e.g. Dickens and Nick Hornby, Russian realism and Danielle Steel].All in all it was [fill in a brief summary of the experience; e.g., as underwhelming as I had feared, a powerful statement about morality and justice, a labyrinthine trip down memory lane with an unreliable narrator leading the way; Tip -- don’t drone on too long here – part of the point is to allow readers to save time, too].
I’m going to say that I am an observer of myself, which is stupid, since I am my own observer anyway: I’ve actually been observing myself for years, if not for decades; my life now consists only of self-observation and self-contemplation, which naturally leads to self-condemnation, self-rejection and self-mockery, in which ultimately I always have to take refuge in order to save myself.  I knew it would happen. I knew that whatever little I missed on my first outing with Bernhard would no long
I’m going to say that I am an observer of myself, which is stupid, since I am my own observer anyway: I’ve actually been observing myself for years, if not for decades; my life now consists only of self-observation and self-contemplation, which naturally leads to self-condemnation, self-rejection and self-mockery, in which ultimately I always have to take refuge in order to save myself.
The fact that this review you’re reading right now is finalized after several failed attempts at formulating something that can vaguely express my views about this book can marginally be used to signify one of the highlights of Concrete.
The World of Thomas Bernhard is one populated almost exclusively by obsessive losers.
These are the kind of hair-pulling people who hunker down for years at a time in a single musty room in some rambling country manor bemoaning their fate or fretting about countless things, including but not limited to the stupidity or cruelty of others, the general horribleness of Austria, or accomplishing some esoteric goal.
There I go again.)Rudolph is attempting to write some sort of magnum opus on Felix Mendelssohn, but he has spent the last ten years agonizing over the first sentence.
Without apology.Thomas Bernhard's writing -- which includes no paragraphs or chapter breaks and often embarks upon obsessive, repetitive run-on sentences -- can't help but remind me of Gertrude Stein's.
Some years ago a colleague of mine suggested I read Thomas Bernhard, and in the random impetuousness of my callow youth I read, no, devoured, a number of his novels without first devising a method of “attack”, for whenever I first encounter an author it has been my practice, since my early days in the gymnasium if not before, to proceed systematically so as to maximize my experience and avoid any need to read through authors again, since it is my belief that every artist’s (and I do consider novelists poets and playwrights artists) creative path follows a certain arc of development and by sniffing out this arc at the outset I can maximize my overall absorption of knowledge of that particular artist.
"La vida es maravillosa, pero lo más maravilloso es pensar que tiene fin. Este es el mejor consuelo que me guardo en la manga. Pero tengo muchas ganas de vivir. Siempre las he tenido, salvo los momentos en que he pensado en el suicidio."  Thomas Bernhard es ante todo un provocador, en absoluto fiable, un enredador irónico, un histriónico amante de la exageración, la frase lapidaria, la expresión furibunda que es replicada pocas palabras más allá en otra frase no menos lapidaria, no menos furibu
No es extraño, pues, que los personajes de Bernhard sean enfermos, no únicamente enfermos espirituales, sino también, con mucha frecuencia, enfermos físicos, agravando su ya penosa enfermedad espiritual.
Se convierten en degenerados, por utilizar una de las palabras favoritas del autor, en personas insoportables que pasan los días en una continua y morbosa observación de sí mismos, escudriñando hasta el más mínimo resquicio esa culpa que frecuentemente arrastran consigo, una culpa personal, pero a menudo, también, una culpa colectiva.
Todo en Bernhard es exagerado, no hay que tomarlo muy en serio, al menos no más que al bufón que expresa lo que a los otros les está severamente prohibido.
People who feel this are quite special." I thought about this quote for some reason about Rudolph from Concrete.
It's an exhausting and preventive hobby, sometimes.)I haven't found my own way of putting this feeling of self-grief nostalgia yet (I am going to make a point to remember Rudolph's term "self-laughter".
I can feel nostalgia for times past that I KNOW must have been exactly like now (depressingly the same.
Why do I feel nostalgia for Rudolph's past?
Where did it all go wrong?Damn if I don't feel affection for Mendelssohn Bartholdy now.
An Austrian musicologist has been trying to begin work on a book about a favorite composer for ten years, but he's blocked.
He lives in a rather grand family house bequeathed to him by his parents.
Just a continual acceptance and subsequent rejection of self, work, society, family and so on.
The critics I have read tend to embrace positions only after years of deliberation.
Our narrator possesses nothing like this capability.
Once there the velocity of the narration slows as he begins to tell us the story of someone he met in that city 18 months before.
Προσπαθεί να γράψει εδώ και δέκα χρόνια μια μελέτη για τον μουσικοσυνθέτη Μέντελσον...Ο Μπέρνχαρντ μας δίνει έναν φιλοσοφικό μονόλογο σφιχτοδεμένο και συμπαγή σαν μπετόν...Ο πρωταγωνιστής πνίγεται, αηδιάζει, κουράζεται από την υποκρισία και την "ασχήμια" του κόσμου.
Σταδιακά απομονώνεται στον εαυτό του βρίσκοντας σαν δικαιολογία την ολοκλήρωση της μελέτης του..
Οι χαρακτήρες φωτίζονται όσο ακριβώς χρειάζεται για να καταλάβουμε την πολυεπίπεδη σκέψη του συγγραφέα..Ουσιαστικά, περιγράφει την ισόβια δυστυχία των προβληματισμένων ανθρώπων.
Έτσι λοιπόν φτιάχνει και εκ διαμέτρου αντίθετους χαρακτήρες για να τονίσει μέσω της σύγκρισης πόσο δύσκολη γίνεται η συνύπαρξη για ορισμένους ανθρώπους.
Η γραφή του Μπέρνχαντ είναι κάπως δύσκολη...
At one point early in the book, Rudolf admits that his sister might be right when she says that his work on Mendelssohn Bartholdy is just a pretence to justify my absurd way of life.
Οσοι είδατε το φώς το αληθινό διαβάζοντας Σάλιντζερ και Καμύ, γοητευμένοι από την αμεσότητα της γραφής τους όπου έκαναν τα δύσκολα απλά για χάρη μας και κυρίως ενδιαφέροντα για να τα διαβάσουμε, μην χάνετε καιρό.
Ακόμα κι αν δεν συμφωνείτε με όλα (όπως εγώ) αυτά που λέει.
Μονολογεί και αυτοσαρκάζεται, μπερδεύεται, δεν ξέρει τι θέλει κι αν το θέλει, πως να το ζητήσει και από ποιόν.
Στα δικά μου μάτια είναι ειλικρινές συναισθηματικά την ίδια στιγμή που παρωδεί τους πνευματικούς ανθρώπους αλλα και τους υλιστές με ένα απλοικό αλλα εύστοχο τρόπο.
Συνεπώς μάλλον βρήκα την εκτέλεση φτωχή για τα γούστα μου.
'Yeni bir başlangıç diye düşündüm ve taş banktan kalkıp yoluma devam ettim.'Huzursuz bir yazar olan Bernhard ile tanıştım dün.
Tam da zamanında.Beton, Sezer Duru'nun muhteşem çevirisi ile ilk sayfadan itibaren içine aldı beni.
'Öte yandan durumumuz ne olursa olsun yapmak istediğimiz şeyi yapmalıyız, yolculuk yapmak istiyorsak yolculuk yapmalıyız, en kötü durumda bile olsak aldırmamalıyız, hele ki en kötü durumdaysak hiç aldırmamalıyız, çünkü o zaman yolculuk yapsak da yapmasak da kaybolmuşuz demektir.'Biçim olarak dikkatimi çeken uzun cümleler -başını unutmadığınız,kaçırmadığınız şekilde- ve tekrarlar oldu.
Evet, aslında yazar tekrara düşüyor fazlasıyla fakat bu Rudolf karakteriyle öyle güzel harmanlanmış ki; 'bu karakterin tam olarak böyle konuşması gerekiyor, olması gereken bu!' dedim her seferinde.
Sonunda ne kendimizi ne de başkaca bir şeyi haklı çıkarmak durumundayız.
http://ankaradakitap.blogspot.com.tr/...
Dei-lhe 4* porque deixou-me, literalmente, agoniada no final. Talvez mereça 5*, há que reconhecer em T. Bernhard a genialidade da escrita; em cento e poucas páginas de narrativa tensa, sem interrupções, traçou todo o absurdo de uma vida aprisionada no medo, no pessimismo e na contradição. No início até que lhe encontrei alguma piada, mas aos poucos a ansiedade tomou conta de mim perante a dimensão do desequilíbrio da personagem do seu pessimismo e indecisão.Um livro que nos envolve assim tem que ser mesmo muito bom. Tão bom, tão bom que é péssimo.
öyle bir ülkeden gidiyorum ki, dedim kendi kendime demir sandalyenin üzerinde, orada düşünce insanı denilen insana zevk veren her şey, zevk vermese bile, hiç değilse varoluşundan haz duymasını sağlayan her şey uzaklaştırılıyor, atılıyor, söndürülüyor, orada artık yalnız bütün ayakta kalma dürtülerinin en ilkeli hüküm sürüyora benzer ve orada düşünce insanı denen insanın en ufak bir isteği henüz filizlenirken boğulur. orada yiyici devlet ve aynen onun gibi yiyici olan kilise birlikte sonsuz bir
öyle bir ülkeyi terk ediyorum ki, dedim kendi kendime demir sandalyede otururken, orada hakikat anlaşılmaz ya da kabul görmez ve hakikatin karşıtı her şey için tek geçer akçedir.
seçim sürecinde thomas bernhard ile tanıştım, beton güzel bir başlangıç oldu.“büyük yazar” diyebileceğim kadar başarılı bulmadığımı ekleyerek yazım tekniği ve memnuniyetsiz hali ile özgün bir tarafı olduğunu düşünüyorum bernhard’ın.
hiç paragraf yapmamasını zorlayıcı buldum ama, farklı olabilmek için özel bir çaba sarf etmiş ve üzerine yakışmamış gibi geldi, sıradan bir editör bile birçok parçaya ayırabilirdi bu metni ama hadi yine neyse.bernhard’ın garip popüler bir tarafı var sanırım.
(Instead of “sitting in a wing chair,” Rudolph, Bernhard’s narrator in Concrete, sits in an iron chair.)Like Woodcutters, Concrete is the internal monologue of a self-loathing and neurotic malcontent, bitching about the many irritants in his life; the distracting presence (and absence) of his tyrannical sister, his inability to successfully complete (or begin) his magnum opus - an ode to Mendelssohn, the physical torment he suffers at the hands of a dubious “disease,” the simultaneous contempt and envy he feels towards the simpletons of the world - the “woodcutters,” if you will, his scorn for his country (Austria), etc.
Bu çok bilmiş, sözünü sakınmayan, huysuz Thomas Bernhard'a şöyle söylemek istiyorum; "Bundan sonra senin adın Zebercet Thomas Bernhard olsun." Dahası Beton ve diğer bütün kitapları için de diyebilirim ki, bu eserler birer "kendini gerçekleştiren kehanet" olma özelliğine sahipler. Bu kitapları ergenlikte okumayı başarırsanız, (kitap uzunluğunda paragraf okuyabildiğiniz için Proust'un nehir romanını okumayı da başarırsınız, ama diyeceğim bu değil) ergenliğiniz ömür boyu sürebilir, evlenmeden önce okursanız, aile kavramı anlayışınız daha ilk günden sakatlanmış olacaktır, askerlikte okursanız neler olacağını tahayyül edemiyorum mesela. Beton bu kehanet kitaplarının benim nazarımda birincisi ve en iyisi. Özetle, aile ve diğer ölümcül şeyler.
'Quando conhecemos o mundo verdadeiramente, verificamos que não é mais que um lugar cheio de erros.' (p.87)diz o meu amigo Jorge que o seu filme preferido de Andrei Tarkovsky são todos. ora, fazendo uso dessa sua afirmação, que subscrevo, posso dizer sem grandes reservas que o meu livro preferido de Thomas Bernhard também são todos. este, em particular, é de valor superlativo.
And when I read you, I often reflect and wonder, how often do I rhyme with Bernhard?
And that my negativity, while disguised from those who don't know me, is rancorous and destructive to those who do, and that they are often disgusted by it, as I am disgusted by Bernhard's rancorous hatred, and my own rhyming with his rancorous hatred.
But I am also amused by Bernhard's rancorous hatred.
My own Bernhard ryming is merely the self-recognition of rancorous hatred, petty venality, and stupid mistakes in etiquette and norms.
Is it true that the the best Bernhard book is merely the first Bernhard book read?
Is the first Bernhard book read always, for that reader, the best Bernhard book?
BETON ist mein erstes Buch des „Skandalautors“ Bernhard, von dem ich ein Bild hatte, ohne etwas über ihn zu wissen.
Es ist der kapitel- und absatzloser Bericht eines Ich-Erzählers Rudolf, der das geerbte Elternhaus in Peiskam nach langem Zögern schließlich verlässt, um in Palma seine Studie über Mendelssohn Bartholdy zu beenden; eine Studie, an der er seit 10 Jahren arbeitet, ohne auch nur mit der Niederschrift begonnen zu haben.
Spätestens am Ende wird deutlich, dass dem Erzähler nicht nur das eigene Leben furchtbar ist, sondern die gesamte conditio humana, wie sie sich durch seine Brille darstellt.BETON trägt keine Gattungsbezeichnung.
Ablası, yaşadığı yeri terkedip terletmemek konusundaki git-gelleri, Niederkreut’daki yaşlı adam, Bayan Härdtl derken, hayata bakışını uzun cümlelerinde görüyoruz Thomas Bernhard’ın. Konusu başı, sonu hiç önemli değil; ardı ardına onun cümlelerini okumak zevk veriyor sadece. Onaylayıp onaylamamak arasında tereddütte kalıyoruz bazen.
When we have sentences in our heads we still can’t be certain of being able to get them down on paper, I thought. The sentences frighten us; first the idea frightens us, then the sentence, then the thought that we may no longer have the idea in our heads when we want to write it down. Very often we write down a sentence too early, then another too late; what we have to do is to write it down at the proper time, otherwise it’s lost. Concrete is a rather difficult, deep, philosophical novel. The
The narrator is a scholar who, for ten years, hasn't managed to write even the first sentence of his book about Mendelssohn.
We're talking about a character that could be a perfect case study and who offers a great subject for discussion and analysis.
As I said it is a rather difficult book as it has the form of an uninterrupted monologue with no chapters and no paragraphs which can be tiring, but I think it is a brilliant work of literature by a brilliant mind and the ending is more than rewarding, although not without questions.
Is he afraid of the world?
http://msarki.tumblr.com/post/7938337...It is almost impossible to write a critical review of a book I read almost twenty years ago and now am attempting to read again after having been philosophically and physically altered so dramatically from the person I was way back then.
In 1996 I was a first-year student of the infamous fiction-writing teacher Gordon Lish and it was he who had informed me of the great work of Thomas Bernhard.
Fact is, Rudolf the narrator, has written nothing but notes that he casually mentions near the end of this book that proved, I guess, to provide the substance of the novel Concrete I am holding in my hands.
This droning, paragraphless trek through the sludge of a hate-filled, pathetic, sickly-and-depressive-Austrian-Mr.-Burns-with-intellectual-aspirations-who's-obsessed-with-his-sister-type narrator's mind should be a total downer, but instead it's weirdly elating. Somehow the distillation of all this odious, self-defeating, self-inflicted, and yes, disturbingly close-to-home misery has an invigorating comic effect that can make the reader feel positively perky. This isn't schadenfreude; it's something much darker and more weird.Not for everyone, certainly. But it worked for me.
Rudolf's ravings were feverishly musical and hilarious and, by the end, devastating.
"Luftmensch" means an kind of artsy, high-minded idler, someone whose feet aren't on solid ground, but it literally translates to "a man of the air." In this book there is air and there is concrete: two opposing elements.
I won't spoil it if you haven't read it, but Rudolf, after a whole book in the air, concusses against some pretty hard concrete and you begin to understand what he's been avoiding.
And so Rudolf colonizes his brain instead with these rantings and ravings, to take up all the room, all the resources, that might otherwise encourage the truth to take root.
Rave on, Rudolf!
This was more enjoyable than The Loser and Gathering Evidence, in large part because the irony/sincerity levels were a bit more in keeping with, you know, basic human intelligence.
But when Bernhard's narrator draw back slightly from the hyperbole, you get revolting things like:"Poverty can't be eradicated, and anyone who thinks of eradicating it is set on nothing short of the eradication of the human race itself, and hence of nature itself," 41.Unlike the annihilation of intellect or the fool/knave ratios, there are a great number of people who *actually, seriously* think things like this.
Thomas Bernhard's Concrete: A Novel is actually a novelette, a 150-page monologue by a wealthy 48-year-old Austrian who is tired of life.
(Perhaps he should have tried a sentence outline first?) When he finally manages to actually do something, it is to take a trip to Palma de Mallorca.
When our unnamed narrator arrives in Palms this time, he finds that the wife had, in the intervening time, committed suicide.Bernhard's narration is quite hypnotic.
However much we may pooh-pooh the narrator, his strange view of life is hypnotic, however negative it may be.
This book is the literary equivalent of being cornered at a party by that one guy who would have most definitely played for the NFL, if only his coach gave him playing time....This book is the friend who constantly asks advice, only to completely ignore it and complain about the exact same outcome on but another occasion.
The angst filled teen who is now middle aged and trying to find a [external] reason why their life didn't work out the way they know it SHOULD have.
Concrete is also a cautionary tale of what can happen when you don't recognize those little defeats and let the blame you try to give others consume you.
What was this book about? I couldn't tell you. Is it any good? It's alright
