https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/20613470-heir-of-fire
"Enemy. Lover.Queen." Heir of Fire is undoubtedly one of the best books I've ever read. It certainly will be my favorite book of the year. It is gloriously long and kept me occupied for an entire day (night hours included) making me crave to find out more, but also stop reading so that the book won't end just yet.You think you know Celaena from reading the first two books, right? Oh, but you're so so wrong. In this book we see her more than broken, relentlessly blaming herself for the fates and
It is gloriously long and kept me occupied for an entire day (night hours included) making me crave to find out more, but also stop reading so that the book won't end just yet.You think you know Celaena from reading the first two books, right?
Celaena makes the transition from assassin to queen with the help of Rowan, a Fae Prince and my favorite new addition to the series.
But keeping secrets, judging, not being able to accept Celaena's and Dorian's powers -- all these things make me wonder if he has any shot left at our heroine's heart, because whereas Celaena would always pick him, Aelin would not.
This is going to be a book that I will constantly be thinking about until I'm able to get my hands on the next book. It was incredible and I'm so happy with the way this story is evolving. NOW GIVE ME QUEEN OF SHADOWS. (full video review coming soooooon)
It's been a while since a book took me longer than a week to read.So basically:I liked but had issues with Throne of Glass.I absolutely LOVED Crown of Midnight.But this book...
Maas sacrifices everything deliciously fast-paced and compelling about her series in the first half so we can be introduced to a whole new cast of characters we don't care about, be taken through different (all boring) perspectives, and emerge feeling like we've read an extremely long filler book.Dorian's new romance only served to remind me why I found him unbearably boring in the first book.
Picking up not long after the heart-wrenching end of Crown of Midnight, Sarah J Maas dazzles and entrances readers once more with a phenomenal third book filled with magic, character growth, sacrifice, rebellion and more.“I wish you to become who you ­were born to be.
Both characters come so far in this book.
There are quite a few new characters introduced in this book: Rowan, the fae prince and warrior who teaches Celaena how to control her magic.
Maas has been spreading the crumbs throughout the series until BAM you read Heir of Fire, and it all comes together!!
SO GOOD. THIS SERIES. I LOVE IT SO MUCH. Here's my full blown booktalk discusison with all the theories and thoughts: http://youtu.be/yRCCFlvBeu8
Oh god.OH GODI just finished this and I cannot -- my thoughts are -- no I can't think straight.There are so many hot guys in this book that it should be illegal.My over-hormonal body cannot take reading about these characters while knowing that I cannot have ANY OF THEM.There's Dorian charming the ever-loving hell out of me:There's Aedion walking into our lives like:Then there's  Rowan: like hot damn [inhales]small note: Who else was reminded of Prince Ash from the Iron Fey series when reading a
Oh god.OH GODI just finished this and I cannot -- my thoughts are -- no I can't think straight.There are so many hot guys in this book that it should be illegal.My over-hormonal body cannot take reading about these characters while knowing that I cannot have ANY OF THEM.There's Dorian charming the ever-loving hell out of me:There's Aedion walking into our lives like:Then there's 
I didn't mention Chaol.
Well that's because he was such an annoying, indecisive, self-righteous prick!I just wanted to:Dear Chaol,Full review to come.For updates and news on everything Throne of Glass,Visit the Throne of Glass fansite!
;-PSo here I go: Celaena, Dorian, Chaol, Rowan, Aelin, Manon, Abraxos, Sorscha, The King, magic, faeries, witches, darkness, fire, ice, wind, a kitchen, a healer, an apartment, blood, murder, and let’s not forget about the black stones.
Still, I’m glad he decided for Dorian and I swear if Celaena and Chaol don’t do anything about this damn ending, I’m going to riot!!!!
Sarah, I swear it here and now if Dorian isn’t saved by the end of book 4 I won’t continue to read this series.
Reasons why I didn't like this book:- It was dull as dirt- It was waaaaaaaay too long- I was so tired of the angst, no matter how justified it was- Rowan is overrated.
There, I said it.- I fell asleep listening to the audiobook over 15 times.
7 alone for the last 10%.- The chapters with the witches felt SO POINTLESS.
(BTW, the king outlawed magic, but witches are okay?
dafuq?
Oh well, I don't care.)- I feel like each book follows the same plot: Celena trains.
Celena fights with cute guy.
Mysterious monster is killing people.
Celena kills monster.
BEAUTIFUL. JUST SO DANG BEAUTIFUL.I loved the new characters (except Sorscha) and it was just a wonderful book. ESPECIALLY BECAUSE OF MANON. AND ROWAN. AND CELAENA (duh).Now where's my copy of Queen of Shadows?
This story is a lot slower than the Crown of Midnight; it concentrates more on the character development.At the end of the last book we learned not only who Celaena Sardothien really is but also what she really is.
Having "suggested" to the king to send her on a mission for her own protection, and cutting Prince Dorian out of the loop, Chaol is in no man’s land.
This forces Chaol to make some decisions of his own, how long can a good honourable man serve a tyrant like the King of Aldarlan and his many atrocities.Dorian is more alone then he has ever been, but he does manage to find solace.
THERE IS LITERALLY NOTHING BETTER THEN THE PROGRESSION OF THIS SERIES.. THIS MIGHT BE MY FAVOURITE ONE SO FAR!
Ohmygosh. The Maas-ter has done it again She was the heir of ash and fire, and she would bow to no one. This one was so freaking good. Honestly, when was the last time that the third book in a series was just as good as the first?Celaena -  deadly, battered and broken  - is sent to a neighboring kingdom. She must find a way to destroy the wyrdkeys to save the kingdom (and possibly the world) from the rule of a corrupt kingdom.  And then I am going to rattle the stars.  Manon - ruthless, discipli
Honestly, when was the last time that the third book in a series was just as good as the first?Celaena -  deadly, battered and broken  - is sent to a neighboring kingdom.
She must find a way to destroy the wyrdkeys to save the kingdom (and possibly the world) from the rule of a corrupt kingdom.
She's sent to join the corrupt king's army as a wyvern rider and manages to raise hell while doing it.
Sarah J Maas manages to weave these three unique storylines  together in such an unforgettable way.
I cannot wait to get my hands on the next!P.s. Young Celaena is possibly my fave character ever.
4.5 bloody, beautiful starsThe adrenaline, the heartbreak, and the sweeping epicness of this story just slay me. What the hell am I supposed to do now? *weeps piteously*Also, I imagine Manon smiling calmly as she rips out your heart. :D
*Reread January 2016*Reread to refresh my memory because wow I forgot everything. This is my least favourite of the series so far, but I still loved it. I just found it to be a very informational, plot advancing book with not a lot actually happening, but I will be doing a video review for it soon so stay tuned for that!*Originally read May 2015*I need Queen of Shadows now please
First read: June 2015Second read: August 2016Third read: August 2017Fourth read: October 2018-----------------------It is EXTREMELY rare for me to cry in books, but I sobbed. This book hits me like no other. <3-----------------------Check out my vlog for this book! -> https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gSjyX...
I'm loving these re-reads on audio, they make the world come to life.
www.melissa413readsalot.blogspot.comI AM IN LOVE WITH ROWAN WHITETHORNRowan is the absolute best hero I have read in a long time.
Rowan trains Celaena in her magic, she has fun magic, she's not called fireheart for nothing.
Their stories were nothing compared to Rowan and Celaena.
The full five stars I'm giving this book is for Rowan and Celaena, nothing else.
There are some evil things going on in the world of the Fae and other places and it's up to Rowan and Celaena to put a stop to it.
So the second and fourth books are a lot more action-packed, but I think this third book REALLY gives the series the character growth and substance it needs in order to be so powerful.Side note: I feel like characters usually need to break and seriously remake themselves in order to be as strong as Aelin ends up being.
It still is not my favorite in the series, but I'm SUPER glad I gave it another shot.
What's funny is, the first time I read Heir of Fire, I skipped over many of Manon's chapters because I just wanted to read about Celaena, but this time, I was more bored with her chapters and was WAYYY more invested in Manon's!As Heir of Fire is what stopped me from continuing the series back in 2014, I am definitely more motivated now!
I think I'm going to take a short break because this book was a LOT to listen to, but I am 100% planning on finishing this series in the near future.
I dont think you fuckers realize how fecking amazing this book is  “So she steeled herself. “I have never told anyone this story. No one in the world knows it. But it’s mine,” she said, blinking past the burning in her eyes, “and it’s time for me to tell it.” This series is either a love or hate for most but either way you have to admit how  brilliant  the writing is. Celaena/Aelin our heroine, broken and exhausted by life “You cannot pick and choose what parts of her to love. You do not have th
And in general Aelin’s story is just fucking amazing and complex and intricate and everything has meaning and comes together and this world is just awesome
Her story has become so much more than a simple assassin trying to buy her freedom, but a powerful queen willing to fight for everyone’s freedom....once she masters her powers 
“At least if you’re going to hell,” he said, the vibrations in his chest rumbling against her, “then we’ll be there together.”“I feel bad for the dark god already.”
She began the story as Celaena: assassin of Adarlan beytrayed by loved Chaol, manipulated by Nehemia and scared of her own power and destiny.
3 - 3.5 StarsMaybe I will review this later, maybe I won’t...Regardless. The most important thing you need to know about my totally non important thoughts on this book is this: Helloooooooo Rowan.Hubba hubba.Other than that, some parts moved like a ship through mud; but in the end, I really loved seeing our protagonist come into her own here. I live for special powers, yo. But really...Hubba hubba, ROWAN.
perfection.
This was everything.
A year? I have to wait another year? I can only hope that I live that long and don't die of anguish first.And Celanea and Chaol had BETTER get back together in this one or There. Will. Be. BLOOD.
Going into this series at such a late date meant I was aware of all the major spoilers before reading them, and I was truly ok with this; I like being prepared and knowing when my heart can finally focus on a coupling that may last for awhile.
I've seen a lot of talk about how the series changes at this point because it's about when SJM began writing ACOTAR, and we do see a lot of similarities in the personalities and actions of the characters of both worlds, so I guess it makes sense that this was the first book that really feels like the start of the series.
They'd be on the equivalent of a break, but that wouldn't change the bond."Sometimes, mates can be together intimately before the actual bond snaps into place."Except they were intimate and the bond still didn't form.And before you can start shaking your fists at me, YES, I concede it's also possible that all of this could mean the bond won't form until after they've been intimate again, now that Celaena is reacquainted with her Faeness, but, sorry, it feels much more likely that they just aren't mates.4.
Maas fangirls like I am, but I've been stalking her on Pinterest since before THRONE OF GLASS was released.
(hide spoiler)]THRONE OF GLASS remains my favorite YA series, and in HEIR OF FIRE, Sarah J.
I’m a big fan of the first two books even though I admitted how fussy I am with this genre.
Revelations were deemed to unfold, unfolded; but all those things changed my entire perspective of the story.
But I came to love all the things that happened in the first two and to see them changed didn’t sit well too much with me.
At least at the beginning.Now that I have let the nit-pick parts admitted, let me emphasized on this new journey.
Celeana might have great bloodline(s) running through her veins and looks like from there things are getting harder and harder for her.
One of the main things I’ve noticed whilst rereading the series this time round is how parallel and connected each plot and each character is to one another.
There’s something about that that I just love, because it not just about Celaena trying to reclaim her kingdom, but about how each characters struggle and success adds to the bigger picture of it all, of this world they are wanting to rebuild and the peace it is trying to regain.
Every character and their journey is adding something to the story, the bigger overall picture.
Everything about this world and story just sits well with me.
im running out of ways to praise the masterpiece that is SJM storytelling.
i loved learning more about celaenas past (which i have been desperate for since book one) and i enjoyed seeing chaol develop as a character.
if i could change anything about this book, however, it would have been to not separate the main characters.
i hate it when the plot of a book allows for a separation because i spend the entire book waiting forever for everyone to be reunited again.
so i am very much looking forward to that reunion in the next book!
(Also check out Cait's review because it says everything I was trying to say and more.)Wow this was a difficult review to write because this book was 100% emotional for me.I'm gonna get a little opinionated first, then I *promise* to get more lighthearted ;) ;) AND I promise to spare you of my SJM speech but you can read it in my other reviews.One of the biggest complaints that I've seen about this book is the fact that Celaena, our resident heroine and badass extraordinaire, is no longer herself.
So while I totally agree that this is entertainment and not to be taken too seriously- I can't help but nod to Sarah for showing a realistic character arc in a character we love so deeply.
This was easily my favorite book in the series thus far, and I feel like it was so much more well-written and intricate than the first two—comparing Throne of Glass in particular to this is like comparing night and day, with how much Sarah’s writing developed over that time span.
I know I sound like a broken record by now, but I just don’t understand why people love to hate her character so much.
On the flip side, I was so happy to finally meet Manon, a character who I’ve heard so many people rave about that I felt like I loved her before she was even introduced.
