https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/24662100-maigret-s-holiday
Αδιάφορο....
Κλασικός κι αγαπημένος ο Ζωρζ Σιμενόν, τα βιβλία του είναι πάντα μια πολύ καλή επιλογή για όσους λατρεύουν το αστυνομικό μυθιστόρημα.

Maigret’s Holiday, first released in 1948, was republished in 1970 with the more accurate title No Vacation for Maigret.
Louise Maigret, Chief Inspector Maigret’s placid wife, undergoes an emergency appendectomy while they’re on holiday (vacation, for you Yanks) in Les Sables-d’Olonne.
While his wife is recovering at the hospital, Maigret gets a note directing his attention to a young patient; however, by the time he gets to her, 19-year-old Lili Godreau is dead.
Needless to say, Maigret begins to look around — especially at Lili Godreau’s brother-in-law, with whom she lived from the time she was an ungainly girl of 13.
Un giallo ben costruito, un Maigret che nemmeno in vacanza rinuncia alla conoscenza quasi ossessiva di tutti quei piccoli dettagli che costituiscono l'anima di ogni persona, e che invariabilmente lo portano alla soluzione di un caso all'apparenza irrisolvibile, e che alla fine regalerà ben più di una sorpresa.Maigret mi fa un effetto strano, anche se nella storia è estate, splende il sole e i bambini corrono sulla spiaggia, a me sembra sempre che l'atmosfera sia cupa.
Forse sarà perché ogni volta che lui è preso in un caso si rabbuia come ben sanno i suoi colleghi e sua moglie.
Come al solito posso affermare che Simenon non mi delude mai.
Lisbon Book-Fair 2018.
I'd never read the Maigret books before Penguin started re-issuing the series with fresh translations and stylish covers.
The chief character remains enjoyable, the multiple mordant views, the swift sketches from French society at particular points in the past century, always light up my imagination – but there is a law of diminishing returns as with even the best series.
(I think the only instance in which I read every book by an author one after the other and didn't weary was when I flew through the flight of Jane Austen's novels.
It's risky; this approach will ruin Dickens.)All to say: this is an enjoyable evening's read.
È stato il mio primo incontro con il commissario ed è stato decisamente positivo, sicuramente approfondirò. Il giallo in sé non è niente di straordinario, anzi è anche abbastanza scontato ma tutto sommato godibile. Più che altro è stato un bel modo per iniziare ad amare un personaggio.
Maigret e l'estate. Maigret e le vacanze. In realtà è sempre Maigret e l'assassino. Perché il romanzo è una lotta mentale continua fra il taciturno commissario e chi pensa di farla franca. E particolare dopo particolare, indizio dopo indizio, Maigret ricostruisce una storia d'amore. (view spoiler)[Un amore assoluto e totalizzante, che non concepisce null'altro all'infuori di sé e arriva al delitto per non perdere l'oggetto di questo amore. (hide spoiler)]Ma non ha fatto i conti con il nostro tenace commissario.
I am so glad Georges Simenon finally brought his detective back and places him pre-retirement back in Paris; however, for this novel we find Chief Inspector Maigret on holiday with his wife at the seaside.Unfortunately almost immediately Madame Maigret has to be rushed to a local hospital with acute appendicitis.
The visiting time is brief and painful; Maigret is uncomfortable by the nuns who nurse the patients and the lack of privacy afforded by the twin-bed rooms.A degree of confidentiality is afforded him however as he is known as monsieur 6; that doesn't stop someone dropping a note into his pocket about a patient in an adjoining room.The novel is interesting in that the detective is both bored but reluctant to get involved in a case that isn't a case.
This is a very traditional mystery, Maigret, while on holiday gets involved with solving a murder(s).
He runs around denying he's on the case but of course the reader & all of the characters know better.Enjoyed the seaside setting, and had a laugh at all of the posturing and wine he was able to put away during the course of the day.
The mystery had me stumped until I was almost at the end, when of course it all came together.This was an easy book to follow without reading any of the prior books (he wrote 75 Maigret books + short stories).
It's a nice quick read, only 199 pgs, perfect for a commute.
I will definitely pick up another Maigret mystery soon.
Another superb Maigret crime novel.
Maigret has to get to know a wide range of characters, high and low, to understand what is driving the murders in a provincial town."A local scandal intrudes on Maigret's seaside holiday in book twenty-eight of the Maigret series.
It was an ordinary sheet of glazed squared paper, probably torn out of an exercise book.
'For pity's sake, ask to see the patient in room 15.' When Inspector Maigret's wife falls ill on their seaside holiday, a visit to the hospital leads him on an unexpected quest to find justice for a young girl."
Jag hade nog alldeles för högt ställda förväntningar, hade läst om Simenons storhet och hur relativt bortglömda hans böcker är, tänkte att här har vi ju en guldgruva, mannen skrev bortåt 250 böcker.Men även om boken inte alls var dålig var den heller inte överdrivet spännande eller gripande.Lagom spännande och tillräckligt intressant för att snabbt läsa sig igenom men det är lite väl platt och grunt. Den påminde en hel massa om Agatha Christie och det är ju inte så pjåkigt precis, men jag hade som sagt hoppats på nåt mer.
A sensible plot, and all the brilliance that made the series, too!
Bellissimo giallo pieno di colpi di scena. L'ho apprezzato più di altri Maigret. UnGrande Simenon.
A holiday in the sun for Maigret in the seaside town of Les Sables d'Olonne is inevitably interrupted by death. Wandering around the town, imbibing freely in the bars and cafés as always, the wheels of his unique brain functioning in top gear, he winkles out the truth behind a cruel crime of passion. Another masterful and compelling tale from the incomparable Simenon.
In the introduction to the 1953 edition, Simenon writes ""I tried to abandon Maigret after writing some twenty odd novels about him but, just like a dog that wont get himself lost, he soon imposed his presence on me again.
He would allow me to write, each year, three or four novels in a different vein, but each year also I would devote one or two of my books to him."" So it goes.This is one of the better ones, with the familiar Maigret methods and sympathetic understanding for all, including the guilty.
He just goes on and on."
The longest Maigret I have read so far, and I suspect one of the longest Maigret novels Simenon ever wrote. It's also one of the most richly written, but they are all richly written, and one thing is almost guaranteed with Maigret novels, namely that they will be atmospheric and evoke a specific time and place with incredible force. In this book, Maigret meets a very self-controlled villain who is actually less in control of his emotions than he seems to be. It's an extremely well designed novel in terms of plot, pacing and mood.
What can a mystery writer NOT learn from Georges Simenon?Maigret brings us mood, class tension, self-consciousness and self-awareness.And in the end, of course, justice.Simply written and simply terrific.
As usual, a great Maigret.He waits, he studies, no violence.The guilty man taunts him.He waits.The guilty man collapses.All psychology - all brilliant.
Maigret is thankfully no longer retired, Simenon appears to have ditched that idea.
He is however on holiday at a small provincial seaside town, and at a loose end, as Madame Maigret has developed acute appendicitis on her third day and is in hospital.
Maigret's behaviour to his long suffering wife and staff remain intolerable, but apparently Simenon was equally bad to his wife, so maybe that was his role model.
The way in which Maigret passionately defends the rights of the ordinary man against the presumed superiority of the middle class is becoming a theme, which I imagined went down well in 1940's France.
A lot of casual Maigret fans might not realize that there is a divide in Simenon's output - an initial run of novels written in the 1930s at a breakneck pace that ends at #20-something, depending on where you put the dividing line.
A few after that are written from the perspective of Maigret in retirement.
Like Sherlock Holmes or even Doctor Who, the protagonist is there to lead us through an exciting story about someone else.I enjoy the mystery of this novel, but it's not my favorite.
Worth a read if you like Maigret, but don't give this to a novice who you want to get hooked.
Compelling story, easy to read. I enjoy getting to know Maigret’s process. I love that he’s someone who makes himself comfortable everywhere he goes. I love his sheer passion for his work of investigation. I love how absorbed he gets. I do think he is an alcoholic, however, and a selfish, neglectful husband. I do not imagine it would be easy to be close to I’m. The setting was very beautiful, as well. Pretty straightforward in terms of text/subtext. What you see is what you get. I solidly liked it.
Hade glömt hur mycket jag gillar Maigret och hans dåtida Frankrike. ”Bara för att en flickunge var död och en nunna med patentfromt ansikte stoppat en lapp i fickan på honom var han nu i färd med att slå sina lovar kring doktor Bellamy, precis som en skolpojke slår sina lovar kring klassens rikaste pojke. 'Ett glas vitt vin till, vaktmästarn!'”Trist inläsning dock där Maigret genomgående benämns Mägrääh och liknande konstigheter. Räddningen blev att det var en kombinerad ljud- och e-bok så jag kunde läsa den själv istället; Bok 1 - Ljudbok 0.
I have never read a Maigret book before, but always loved the tv adaptations, when I was young, Rupert Davies, and then later, Michael Gambon. This book was very good-good plot, sparsely, but beautifully, written. Maigret really is a puzzle all to himself. One of the original moody detectives. Written in 1948, but timeless.One final thing, when I saw the recent tv adaptations starring Rowan Atkinson, I was not impressed. Now that I've finally read a book I can see just how perfect Atkinson is in the part
My first Maigret, and I must say I loved it. The plot was pretty easy to figure out, but Simenon is doing more than telling a detective story: this is really about social class in France in the mid 20th century. He has a real eye for how his characters' lives and choices - even more intimate behavior - are to one degree or another a product of their upbringing. The character of Maigret is well done. Clearly the author knows him well, and likes to hang out with him. I do, too.
This translation follows Maigret as he copes with his wife's illness while on holiday by solving a series of murders involving the patients and personnel of the small hospital. The first death sets off a series of other deaths that all connect with an unexpected twist coming at the end.
Maigrets liebe Frau hat im Urlaub eine Blinddarmentzündung. Die Atmosphäre des klösterlichen Krankenhauses schildert Simenon einmalig gut. Maigret sucht sich derweil eine Routine, mit der er die freien Tage rund um die Krankenbesuche herumbringen kann und stößt auf einen Sack voll Verbrechen.
Maigret è un po' come la Fletcher - pure quando è in vacanza, ci scappa il morto. A parte questa attitudine da uccello del malaugurio, e nonostante le trame un po' datate, rimane un imprescindibile per gli amanti del giallo.
This book is so good that I read it in one sitting. Like most of Simenon's books it is quite short but what it lacks in length it makes up for in quality. I've said it many times before and I'll say it again: this man was a genius.
