https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/25152052-the-japanese-lover
Allende also touches on this theme with two other couples: Ichimei's sister Mugami and Boyd as well as Irina and Alma's grandson Seth in present time.
In present times Alma's grandson Seth has decided to write a book about his grandmother's life while she is still lucid enough to share her memories.
When Alma finally decides to tell Seth and Irina about her and Ichimei's relationship one afternoon in Lark House, I realized that Allende has rekindled the magic that I grew to love with her first sweeping novels.
This is the Allende that I fell in love with when I read House of the Spirits for the first time.
The story alternates between the present with Alma working on the Belasco family history with her grandson Seth and Irina, whom she has hired as her assistant and Alma's earlier life when she is first sent to America from Poland.
As a young girl she meets Ichimei Fukuda , the son of her aunt's gardener and her life is forever changed .
The novel also contains sections covering the Fukuda family's experience in a Japanese internment camp reflecting on this difficult time in our history for Japanese immigrants and their American born children.
A held-at-arm's-distance recitation of characters' histories, loves, lives, and losses, interspersed with patinated scenes of an assisted living center for geriatric WASP hippies in the woods a comfortable, but convenient, distance from San Francisco.
Whereas Alma lives a silver-spoon life in a mansion overlooking San Francisco Bay, Irina's formative years are a horror show, a secret revealed deep into the book's narrative.
The novel wakes up and shake off its velvet glove when Allende takes us into the concentration camps where Americans of Japanese origin were held captive during the war.
That 8 year old memory includes loss of the new custom home my parents built that we were about to move in a week before he died....then a week later a major flood & mud slide destroyed every house ( all new developments)...'except' ours.
Now imagine the loss for 8 year old, Alma Mendel, in Isabel Allende's book, "The Japanese Lover".Alma remembers loss of her 'mother' and 'country'.
While Irina and Seth work together, a relationship between them is growing......(a new love story emerging?) Isabel Allende's new novel takes place - mostly-in an upscale - assisted living type complex in San Francisco, called 'The Lark House'.
Was this novel really written by the same woman who thrilled me with "Island beneath the Sea," "Zorro," "Portrait in Sepia," "Daughter of Fortune," "House of the Spirits?" Somehow I find that hard to believe.Rather than putting her "beautifully drawn characters" into history, the book just throws every societal ill of the last 75 years at the reader.
Nothing was left out of this book, that's for sure!"Beautifully drawn characters" as in the past novels?
And I guess the parallel to this is our 2nd leading lady, Irina, who holds down 3 responsible jobs, but yet lives in a rat infested rent-controlled hovel without bathing facilities.
When I started reading Isabel Allende's The Japanese Lover, I liked it well enough but I wasn't feeling anything special.
It doesn't have the intense richness of The House of Spirits or some of Allende's other books set in Latin America, but Allende's particular ability to weave characters and their stories and history together is very recognizable.
What I really liked most about the book is that Alma and Irina are great characters.
But if you read The Japanese Lover on its own terms, taking the story as it comes, hopefully you have the same experience I did of being drawn in by Irina and Alma and their stories.
Interesting story idea, but too many disjointed and melodramatic plot lines, too much telling vs. showing, and totally lacking in the lyrical prose of some of her earlier books. This one felt formulaic and thrown together.
Anyone who has read Allende recognizes her talent for narratives that transcend time, love and cultures across generations.
In this novel, there are two stories entwined: one of eternal love told by Alma, an 80 year old woman as she reflects back on her life to her assistant Irina, from the walls of her retirement room; and Irina's own difficult, sad life journey.
Themes of friendship, loss, family, love and forgiveness abound.I've read some harsh reviews and perhaps I didn't feel the same emotional connection as I would have preferred - this is only my 2nd following House of Spirits which I loved - I still felt she skillfully spun a captivating and memorable read.
I really liked this book. It's about friendship, love, and aging with many touching relationships.(I also learned about how the Japenese Americans were sent away to interment camps after the bombing of Pearl Harbor, I had never known this happened).
After years of learning and growing and forgiving herself for choices she has made, the aging Alma knows a thing or two about living life and feeling fulfilled.
However, war, the internment of the Japanese-Americans after the bombing of Pearl Harbor, and economic and cultural differences are all seemingly insurmountable barriers to Alma and Ichimei's relationship throughout their lives.
Alma, now a resident at Lark House where this young, Moldavian immigrant is employed, is perhaps the one person who can teach the haunted Irina how to find peace with herself and seek happiness.
Very good book. A story told throughout several decades. And some stories told were "gasp" worthy.
She also uses a deceitful little trick at the end, aided and abetted by her main character, which confuses everyone about the ending of the love affair.
Speaking of love affairs, this book is not a romance.
The romance does occur, in fact it is ticking over the whole time, but it is always quiet and in the background just like Ichimei, the Japanese lover, himself.I enjoyed the Belasco family dynasty especially Nathaniel and Seth but felt a little short changed on Irina who had plenty of prominence in the story, plus an appalling back story, and yet I still felt I did not know her at all.
3.5 After overcoming my initial reaction that this novel would not have the depth which Allende was noted for in her earlier novels (and it did not)I realized that this was a very good story.
I did, however, have a problem with Ada throughout much of this novel, liked her much better as an elderly lady than her portrayal in her backstory.
Would have liked Irina to have a larger part.Yet it did have its problems for me.
Did not feel the emotional pull behind the words.
I read them but did not feel them.
: Sweeping through time and spanning generations and continents, The Japanese Lover explores questions of identity, abandonment, redemption, and the unknowable impact of fate on our lives..I found it to be one of those big-hearted tales that pluck your heartstrings while you root for the main characters to find the love of others that they deserve.
We watch a friendship develop between an elderly Jewish society woman, Alma Blasco, and her young assistant, Irina Bazili, and in the process they begin to overcome emotionally debilitating barriers arising from their secrets.
Alma we soon learn has had a periodic Japanese lover in her long life, a gardener’s son whom she didn’t have the courage to love openly in defiance of the barriers of class and racism.
Alma Belasco, now an octogenarian living in a retirement residence, is telling the story of her life to her grandson Seth and her immigrant care worker Irina.
Alma met Ichimei Fukuda, the son of her family's Japanese gardener, when they were children.
The Fukuda family was sent to an internment camp for Japanese-Americans during World War II, and lived under terrible conditions in the Utah desert.
Alma was a Jew from Poland who had been sent to relatives in the United States as the Nazis invaded her country, so she had also been a victim of prejudice.The book has a large number of characters and covers many social problems, tragedies, and important events in the 20th Century.
3☆“Why do you ask, Aunt Lillian?””Because...marriage without passion is like food without salt.”Such was the issue for me with this one. It was like a well prepared meal without salt. Or perhaps, not the seasoning I prefer. I kept putting my fork down after each bite to sip my wine only to experience a disconnect. I was hoping for a nice dessert at the end that made it worthwhile. Instead I had more wine. A Dianthus Rosé from Tablas Creek. That put a smile on my face.
However, unlike 'Ripper', which Isabel Allende also wrote, this book is coherent.Reader, if gelded literary reads are the kind of books which you recommend to your book club because it helped you pass the hours between arranging the flowers into a delicate expression of beauty and checking the work of the servants, or you wish you had a quiet, but socially-responsible, elevated life of wealth and 'the mind', may I then recommend this book.
Aah, the quiet desperation and hidden heroism!These people should have been engaging and long-lived in our minds long after we, gentle reader, have put this kind light-stepping book down on our highly polished coffee tables, and probably they will be for some readers.
By the end of this book, they felt like family and friends to me.The Japanese Lover swings from present day to Alma's, Irina's and Ichimai's pasts and back again, but does so seamlessly and to great effect.
Allende's writing is, as always, beautiful, evocative and haunting.Although I listened to it on audio (and the narrator Joanna Gleeson was superb), this is a book I will be buying to keep, one I will return to time and again.THE AUTHOR: Isabel Allende Llona is a Chilean-American novelist.
At a very young age, Alma Mendel’s family was torn apart – first her beloved brother Samuel was shipped off overseas then not too much later, her parents informed Alma that she would be journeying from her home in Poland to San Francisco to live with an Aunt and Uncle she had never met.
He was following in his father’s footsteps – the two children became playmates.Many years later, an elderly Alma moved into Lark House, a residence for the aged – Alma was housed independently as she was still a fit and active woman.
L'intesa fra le due donne svelerà i segreti delle loro rispettive vite.Una storia punteggiata di drammi e tragedie, anche se l'atmosfera che si respira è melodrammatica, per il sentore agrodolce che impregna tante pagine.Questo libro dal titolo ottocentesco, lezioso fin dalla copertina, mi ha dato l'impressione di un brutto romanzone d'intrattenimento presumibilmente rivolto ad un pubblico femminile affezionato spettatore di telenovele .La mentalità di fondo che percorre le improbabili vicende narrate è quella di certi salotti televisivi, cioè basata sui diffusi stereotipi dell'edonismo-laicismo modaiolo spruzzato di femminismo alla panna montata, che intravede nel consumismo volto a soddisfare vanità e desideri, il convenzionale orizzonte valoriale ed estetico.
Irina works at the complex and our story begins when one of the residents, charismatic and enigmatic Alma Bellasco takes a shine to her and offers her extra work as a secretary.
As their story progress you realise this is not just the love story between Alma and Ichimei, there are other loves in this read and I marvelled at the way the author showed that it is possible to love different people at the same time and in different ways.
I adored Alma and her capacity to love the people in her life in a read that is quirky and moving at the same time, and one in which I really got drawn into.
A look at the life of Alma Mendel, sent as a child to live with her aunt and uncle in San Francisco.
Alma is at the centre, bracketed by unconditional love.
Alma was uncompromising, created a life to suit her talents, travelled the world to explore creativity, had choices and took them bravely, lived realistically yet freely...
No choice, no love, choking loss...Allende brings them together in Lark House, another house of spirits...
Seth and Irina collate Alma's papers and her memories.
In the folds, there was always Ichimei, or Ichi, first the boy who Alma loved and then the man.
This isn’t up to the level of her South American novels (e.g. The House of the Spirits), and in elaborating both Alma’s and Irina’s stories there’s a bit too much telling rather than showing, but I thoroughly enjoyed the book all the same – I devoured it in just a few days.
Allende is sensitive to both the process of aging and the various strategies for dealing with traumatic events from the past.
If you’re interested in exploring the internment of America’s Japanese during World War II, two other novels that also feature this shameful historical episode are 
At 73, Isabel Allende is finally old enough to write about retirement with some personal authority, but there’s nothing retiring about her treatment of the twilight years.
Although her new novel takes place in what we used to call an old folks’ home, “The Japanese Lover” is animated by the same lush spirit that has sold 65 million copies of her books around the world.
While brushing aside the dismal expectations and hoary jokes about elderly people, she captures the real complexity and abiding passion of a long life.“The Japanese Lover” may be furnished with oxygen tanks and painkillers, but it blasts along like a turbocharged wheelchair.
The action takes place at.
Isabel Allende is such a skilled storyteller. This novel is full of surprises, slow disclosures, and containes loveable flawed characters. It also has some interesting yet sad historical pieces like the treatment of the Japenese on the west coast during WWII. The Japanese Lover  is my first Allende book. I hear her other books are even better so this won't my last.This was a buddy read with my friend Nita. It was fun discussing the book with her.
The first half does spend a lot of time on the Belasco and Fukuda family history but it is essential in setting up the main characters in the book.
It was only because of the Belasco’s friendship and generosity that the Fukuda family were able to re-establish their farm.The relationship between Alma and Ichimei is a complicated one and goes through many changes throughout their time together.
There are beautifully worded love letters from Ichimei to Alma which she reads again and again.
I would recommend this one to book clubs as there is lots for discussion and just to anyone who wants to read a well written, beautiful novel.
So sad. Allende is one of my favorite authors, which is why this audiobook is especially disappointing. It reads more like a first or second draft, needs another run through to give depth to characters, storylines, scenery, and to purge it of heaps of trite phrasing. Despite all that, the book is worth a read. Unforgivable was the choice of audiobook narrator. It's a wonder I have teeth left after all the grinding I did of them amid her lackluster reading, mispronounced Spanish words, and inappropriate inflections.
I was looking forward to starting 2016 with my first book by Isabel Allende. Unfortunately I'm disappointed as this book turned out to be quite blah. As a reader, it was easy to fall in sync with the pace of the story but I never became invested (or cared) about any of the characters. The story remained flat with only a few elements that sparked my interest very late in the book. Will I read another novel by this author? Absolutely! The House of The Spirits comes highly recommended.
The story is set in San Francisco where little Alma Mendel is sent to live with her wealthy aunt and uncle, the Belascos, just before Poland is overrun by the Nazis.There she meets the love of her life, Ichimei Fukuda, the Japanese gardener's son.
After Pearl Harbor, the Fukuda family are among the Japanese-Americans sent to containment camps in Topaz, Utah--the first of many separations that Alma and Ichi must endure.The book begins though when Alma is an old lady, living in an assisted-living facility where she is aided by a young Moldovian woman, Irina, with a haunted past.
Allende's sweeping tale of forbidden love and loss, is really two stories.
Alma is sent from Poland to live safely in San Francisco with her relatives in 1938 when Natzi threats lead the world into war.
It's here that their paths meet and where they will both share their histories some of which ( Alma's) span years and continents.
But the war and the internment of Japanese Americans , who were viewed as the enemy after the attack on Pearl Harbor, play a big part in secrets that have been kept for 60 years.
Sometimes when everything is lost ..love may be all that endures.
