https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1351679.Dobry
This is what's on the back cover of DOBRY:BREADMAKINGRoda, the mother, baked bread in the courtyard ovens.
When the ovens were hot enough Roda raked out the coals and put in the loaves of bread, well wrapped in horseradish leaves which Dobry brought.When the first bread was baked from the new flour the miller had ground from their own wheat, that made a day of thanksgiving and neither Dobry nor his grandfather nor his mother would taste a bite of the new bread until everybody who went by their house had eaten some.
Mrs. Duff was mentioning great children's books with food in them!
They bake and farm for a living, yet Dobry has an artist's eye and a bent for beauty in the ordinary.
This book is very slow moving (which I loved, but some might dislike), following the agricultural seasons, traditions, a mix of religious and folk traditions and beliefs drive the whole community.
There is very little plot to this book, just a general look at their day to day lives, and a gradual realization the Dobry is meant to be an artist.
Though I have no idea of Shannon's qualifications to write of Bulgarian peasant life, I do remember enjoying this beautifully written story when I read it for the Newbery club:I don't think I would have enjoyed it as a child, though, as it's so subtle and quiet.I particularly liked bits of wisdom like this:"When we eat the good bread we are eating months of sunlight, weeks of rain and snow from the sky, richness out of the earth.
Some are careful and realistic, some look like more casual sketches, and some are almost like abstract art, focused on the shapes and lines of the scene.
I'll have to look for more by Atanas Katchamakoff.
Dobry’s passion, however, was not to become a farmer, but rather to attend art school and become a successful artist.
Dobry shared his simple country life with Neda, his best friend.
Together they shared all the exciting events of Bulgarian culture.
With his optimistic view on life’s everyday events, Dobry was able to look beyond the outward appearance.
So, Dobry taught Neda how to view the world through art.This book wasn’t the most enjoyable, for me.
In my opinion, this was the best part of the book since it portrayed his artistic ability in an interesting way.
I am beginning to think my quest to read all the Newbery winners is a colossal waste of time.
Maybe it was not acceptable back then to write books about the real challenges kids face, or to have complex characters, or to make kids really think or feel something, because it seems all the early Newbery winners are that way.
I guess it is similar to all those black and white tv shows that didn't necessarily address what the real world was like.It makes me wonder if the changing Newbery choices reflect actual cultural shifts, or if it has merely become more acceptable to talk about the dark underbelly that has always been there.
(That is something I especially love about Lois Lowry's Gathering Blue, as well--the attentiveness to and nurturing of giftings.) I appreciated how self-assured Dobry was--and how passionate he is about life.
Maybe because I feel myself to be very passionate, as well.)An added bonus for me was that there was a hand-written card left in my used copy of Dobry.
It made me smile to read a note a father had written to his married daughter.
Anyway, I received an added blessing as I read the back of the card.
:) The man who painted best what he loved most.
I was a bit surprised at the lovely little bits of Orthodoxy found here. It's more slow-paced than I had expected, but a sweet little book nonetheless, with an overall optimistic and happy tone.
Pulled a few quotes that were interesting but that's about all.'"You eat too much at once," the grandfather said, "too many tomatoes, too many stories...everything is good but not too much of it.
The water--good to drink, good to grow the tomatoes, good to wash in--but too much water out of place carries everything away."'"today seems brighter, the way our house looks after a good cleaning.
Some plants need to be moved; other plants die if you move them.""You are too anxious.
Just enjoy your bread and some day, without knowing how, you'll bite right into luck."
As he lives and works through the months and seasons, he develops his art as well as his affection for Neda, a neighbor girl whom he plans to wed.Well.
The ALA really does seem to show undue favor to books set in another place or time, that open a cultural window.
It's a decent enough book, perhaps a bit over-subtle in its message of positivity and carpe diem – but it lacks drama, conflict, suspense.
Dobry's mother is a simple peasant women who doesn’t understand his artistic streak, but agrees to send him to Sofia for art school.
The premise of this book is fairly boring, but Dobry is such a lively character that he made it enjoyable for me. He embodies mindfulness and what it can do to create happiness even in very humble circumstances.
Bulgaria Apparently, this book is based on the life of the artist Atanas Katchamakoff (whose illustrations are included in the edition I read).
The book really deserves a preface and an afterword that talk more about Katchamakoff and how much of the story is true.
One would think that Newbery Medal Books 1922-1955 would provide this kind of information.
Shannon's Newbery acceptance paper is a rambling non-sequitur that does not mention Bulgaria or Kachamakoff at all.
I just wish there were more that expanded from this book to other things - songs, images, recipes, etc.
Newbery winner.
1935I wanted to give this book more stars just so my review started in stark contrast to all the 2 & 3 star ones that really hated it.
Why give a book ANY stars if you disliked it that much?
(One of the plus points on reading others reviews was seeing that someone else agreed that this book had some WTF moments--their words not mine, though appropriate.
A completely appropriate tale for 1935.
The bits of culture weren't bad either and this was a pleasant read without any evil, malice or deep- rending conflict.
(Any book that starts with a boy sick in bed because he ate too many tomatoes has got to be at least a little charming right?) I liked the simpleness of the story, I loved the illustrations, and I loved the Bulgarian setting.
There is virtually no plot at all, nothing is at stake, it's incredibly boring and really the only thing that makes the book at all readable is its Bulgarianness.
It seems pretty obvious to me that the the book was written simple for its setting, and a book has to have more than an unusual setting and pretty illustrations to be a great book.
Newbery Medal Winner--1935The tiny blurb for this one reads "a Bulgarian peasant boy must convince his mother that he is destined to be a sculptor, not a farmer." Well...kind of.
The first hundred pages barely mention any art--it's mostly picking vegetables and wheat.
Oh...and waiting for the Gypsies to come with their gypsy bear.
Who gives massages.
(This was a real thing--I looked it up.) The second half has a little more action and we see Dobry get more involved with drawing and clay.
Still waiting for an older Newbery winner to really catch my attention, but it's been pretty slow going.

1.75Must. Keep. Going. Even the massaging gypsy bear couldn't make this book less painful. Yes. A massaging gypsy bear.One day I will look back and proudly say 'I have read all of the Newbery award winners'. No pain. No gain.
A good book, but I didn't love it. Interesting because the setting is different than any other Newbery I've read.
There is no leaf exactly like that one in the whole world.
He makes a beautiful thing and nothing else in the whole world is exactly like it...
The Cat may have been a quicker read, but it was also stranger.
If the boy is strong, [like] live and good yeast, the work he chooses will rise, become great, nourish everybody.There are a number of these wise sayings of Grandfather.
"Jingle Bells" got it all wrong.I'll leave you with one last quote from this oddly endearing story and a question to ponder: in which season do you feel most like yourself?"Snow is the most beautiful silence in the world.
Nestled at the foot of the many mountains of Bulgaria his village carries on the rhythm of life closely aligned with the seasons.
His mother, Roda, a widow who lost 4 children before Dobry was granted to her, makes excellent bread from the wonderful wheat which they grow.
Won’t it break if he goes off to the capital to study to become a famous artist—will he still care for a modest peasant girl from a mountain village?
As the seasons turn so does Dobry grow in stature and reputation—especially the night he fashions a manger scene out of snow, where devout villagers come to worship.
They all "count" toward the end goal (and I am nothing if not goal oriented).Yet the two things that drew me to the book once it was in my hands were the title and the cover illustration.
The book gives us two years in Dobry's life.
Each chapter revealed something about how seasons were celebrated, traditions observed and relationships maintained.Beyond that charming and no doubt rosified view, the book was not very good.
On more than one occasion, however, I could not tell what was happening in a photo until after I finished the chapter to which it corresponded.Reading this book was like looking through a viewmaster.
As he grows older, he develops great talent as an artist, and in the end, he goes away to Sofia for formal schooling in the subject.The village life described in the book is an odd mix of the mundane, like baking bread, and events which are so outlandish that they leave you stunned and nearly speechless.
In Dobry, you will find a midnight journey on foot through a snowstorm to a vegetable garden to satisfy a child’s sudden tomato craving, a bear owned by gypsies that goes around from village to village to give people back messages with its paws, and a bitterly contested competition where men race to find who can melt snow fastest with latent body heat.The biggest problem with the book is its almost total lack of anything resembling conflict.
I took the time to try and smell the bread baking, to imagine the coldness of the tomatoes kept in snow and to feel the changes in season which are given such importance in the culture, as depicted here.What I loved about this book is the great detail that is given to the simple way of life, the customs and the importance of the land and how it provides everything the peasants need.The relationship between Dobry and his grandfather is special.
We get to see their relationship evolve from friendship into the early stages of love.Unlike much of the literature preceding and contemporary to Dobry, the gypsies are depicted as kindly and helpful.
79 1935: Dobry by Monica Shannon (Viking)Aug. 27, 2013 176 pagesDobry is a Bulgaira peasant boy who lives with his mother and grandfather.
The book also features stories told by the grandfather or by Dobry.
It all becomes a part of us, sun, clouds, rain, snow and the rich earth.
Able to run the way clouds do, able to dance like the snow and the rain.
But nobody takes time to think that he eats all these things and that sun, rain, snow are all a part of himself." p.
Dobry, a boy from Bulgaria who is full of life and energy and good humor, comes from a family line of bread makers.
His mother worries for him, though; there certainly are a variety of viable occupations available to a boy who wishes not to take up the family business, but a life as an artist?
Through the boisterous, happy wisdom of his grandfather, Dobry and his mother both come to see that Dobry's future is an unwritten book, and it is up to Dobry alone to complete the story in its empty pages.
The sculptor part didn't even show up until pretty late in the book, and even then there weren't any interesting plot twists or challenges.I did like the author's writing style though.
As I already said, it mostly consisted of Dobry doing various things in the town, and it didn't include many of the usual things that make books interesting.
In Dobry, none of these things were present, nor anything similar.I gave this book a 2/5 rating because although the writing style was good and there were some interesting things included (like Grandfather's stories), it wouldn't go in my list of favorite books.
It's a very poetic well-written book with some valuable themes: hard work, accepting a child for who he is, getting along with you neighbors, and being grateful for what you have. But that being said, I don't see this as a book that would interest a kid at all.
This book was a little too uneventful for my tastes.
It was a bit dull reading about their every day activities, but these peasants kept busy from sun up to sun down.
The highlights of their lives seemed to be the coming of the gypsy bear, who helped them know when it was safe to bathe in the river Yantra, and who also massaged anyone who wanted one, by walking on their backs.
There is certainly no modern technology mentioned in the book.I didn't hate it, but I sure didn't love it either.
This is a slow-paced book with an old-fashioned, slightly foreign feel.
It's a good story, with lots of description, but I had a hard time getting through it.
This is one of those styles of writing that I have to be in the mood for, and when trying to review 100 books, a slow pace is just killer.
This would not be a recommendation for someone who isn't already pretty invested in reading.
It might be a good read-a-loud, especially since it is set in Bulgaria and some of the folk customs might need explaining along the way.
A snapshot of life in a Bulgarian farming village, presumably just after WWI.
Dobry lives with his widowed mother and his grandfather.
They expect that he will continue the family tradition and be a farmer, but he discovers a passion for art.
His break from expectations is paralleled by the changes in society (there are hints of the larger world outside the village).
The story is disjointed -- suddenly it is "four years later," and Dobry is an adolescent.
Grandfather is a great raconteur who needs little encouragement tell a tale, the taller the better.
Finally finished this book.
I read it because it is a Newbery Award winner from 1935.
It's not like today's books that are all action and adventure right away.
In fact, there's really no action in it at all.
Despite that, I really enjoyed the book.
I can recommend this book to adults and kids that really enjoy reading.
If you read it knowing it is OLD (but it is not dated, if you know what I mean), and not like the modern Newbery's, I think you can enjoy it.Having said that: I really disliked the ending.
