https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1571607.My_Friends
Have you done so with some hope for a better future?
Has it occurred to you that the worst part about a move like that was the, at times, crushing loneliness?There’s something about Bove’s My Friends that may (likely, will) strike some readers as familiar—the bungled, missed opportunities in pursuit of intimacy of the most basic sort.
It seems somehow appropriate that Colette was one of Bove’s champions, with his brief exposition on loneliness, his feel is familiar.
Poverty and physical disfigurement contribute to the alienation, and yet never dim hope.
You don’t like it?
Don’t use it)(FYI: this is NOT a book about Moving)
But above all, simple sentences--Bove makes writing seem easy, even self-evident, when it is obviously not.
And the tone is not as exaggerated (exaggeration is a good thing in Walser's hands, but I must say what Bove does is probably more difficult).
(hide spoiler)]I think Victor Baton is more real to me than most of the people I know in real life.I have the odd, uncomfortable feeling that this book was written just for me.
Now, as the residents don’t have a front door key, anyone foolish enough to be out past 10 pm, like our hapless protagonist Victor Baton, takes their own lives into their hands, rings the doorbell, and is at the mercy of the Furies.
Victor Baton, then, once circumvented of concierge lambastment, must now climb up seven flights to his attic garconniere.
I do know, however, if you were to pop out and discover its pelting it down, going back up to retrieve your brolly would be a non sequiter.
Emmanuel Bove is Colette’s protégé: that sold me.
And neither Colette nor Bove disappoint.
Yes, this is a perfect novel.
Perfect tone, voice, tempo.
Perfect sentence by sentence.
(I mean, is there a more tidy, well-crafted, luminous sentence than "Raindrops were falling on the ground, never one on top of another."- and I can't even tell you why it's perfect, it just is).
All the perfect strange phrasing.
Perfect in its brevity.
Bâton out-Molloys Molloy, and he doesn't even have to try so hard to unsettle you.
Also, there is something uncomfortably familiar and close to home about Bâton's meandering thoughts; under all of it is a spookily recognizable abyss.
"Nesse prédio de operários, eu era o louco que, no fundo, todos queriam ser.
Era o que se privava de carne, de cinema, de lã, para ser livre.
Era o que, sem querer, lembrava todos os dias às pessoas a sua condição miserável.
A sua vida resume-se a comer, dormir e deambular por Paris à procura de alguém que lhe dê atenção, que lhe queira bem.
Na medida mais precisa que eu puder.
Mas amar-te sem medida e ficar na tua vida, Da maneira mais discreta que eu souber.
Nem ausente, nem presente por demais.
É bonito ser amigo, mas confesso é tão difícil aprender!
Os Meus Amigos é sobre um homem que não tem amigos.
Bactôn é uma figura patética; solitário e melindroso torna-se espectador do mundo e de si mesmo.
Mais de si mesmo do que do mundo, diga-se.
Para o espectador paulatino todo o pormenor é significativo, porque tem tempo de lhe atribuir significados.
Ele tem tempo e talvez não tenha mais nada, mas parece pensar que os outros nem tempo têm.
Vive, assim, pobre, sem amor mas com tempo.É um livro engraçado e triste.
Bove é um Dostoiévski que não se preocupa com ideias gerais, graças a Deus.
Bove is amazing in Baton's private thoughts a parallel world to the worlds of his "friends".
How they like to see themselves wasn't as good as the sick wanting something good to happen underneath that Baton and the suicidal bargeman had.
Baton is the person that is thinking all of those nasty things someone afraid of people would cross the street.
I thought it was going to be super important to me his longing for a dream-friend.
The real world doors are closing and keep going, your friend is right around the black white corner....
Yes. Hell and expletive yes. As ever, other reviewers have capably articulated my thoughts for me, so there’s no reason to read this when you can read Geoff Wilt, Knig-o-lass, Jimmy, Adam Florida and Mark Zero’s fine reviews. I won’t provide links, since they’re easily findable by looking above (or below) this sparse paragraph. All I can say is: heartbreaking and melancholy, perfectly realised, the real deal. Universal. Read it. But don’t listen to this after.
'Is mijn leven dan zo abnormaal dat het de wereld aanstoot geeft? Ik kan het niet geloven.'Sublieme roman over eenzaamheid, pijn en vervreemding, maar ook de wil om te leven en de moeizame zoektocht naar verlossing en loutering. Korte, krachtige zinnen die met slechts enkele subtiele wendingen en een verbluffend oog (en oor!) voor details een van intensiteit huiverend en zinderend universum vol duisternis en wanhoop oproepen. Knappe vertaling van Angèle Manteau.
This is an incredibly depressing book about an incredibly insecure, self-conscious man, who I, nevertheless, couldn't even find myself liking or sympathizing with because he's so manipulative.
One could argue that parts read like a grocery list, or perhaps more accurately a children's book: it is one simple declarative sentence after the next.
I suppose like "Solitude, what a sad and beautiful thing it is" (150), one could say "Simplicity and precision, what a sad and beautiful thing it is."Anyway, I just hope that some of My Friends read this review.
C'est un petit tour de force sur la solitude humaine. Pourtant c'est bien petit. La maitrise technique vaut quatre étoiles mais le contenu ne vaut pas plus que deux. Je donne trois étoiles à ce roman vraiment bien écrit.
Osserva tutto e soprattutto la gente perché il suo unico desiderio è non essere solo, avere degli amici.
Come è triste quando ci è imposta da anni!Certi uomini forti non sono soli nella solitudine, ma io, che sono debole, sono solo quando non ho nessun amico.” * Dalla nota finale del traduttore: ” È lecito dire che il silenzio che dopo la sua morte ha avvolto l'opera di Bove, sia stato infranto solo negli ultimi anni grazie ad una traduzione devota di questo romanzo (e del successivo Armand) da parte dello scrittore austriaco Peter Handke.
While I often enjoy 'novels' of this nature, the similarities between the two narrators and their activities are so striking that My Friends ends up reading like a less evolved version of A Singular Man. That being said, there is still a lot to enjoy here courtesy of narrator Victor Baton, including amusing lines such as this one:
And there is much poignancy in the life of this lonely, sad, and poor man who constantly wishes only for someone to show interest in him, and for a chance to love, like everyone else.
A questa etica della scomparsa in vita, Bove affianca uno stile che consiste, secondo quanto ne disse Artaud, nel rifiutarsi di fare letteratura, fuggire da tutto ciò che era letterario e dalle sue servitù, a cominciare dalla maggiore di tutte, quella dello stile”.
E così ho letto il libro, che è la storia di un giovane uomo solo e povero, che, nella speranza di dare e ottenere amore, si dedica un po’ ossessivamente all’antieconomica pratica della flanerie in una Parigi post-bellica (la Grande Guerra) cinica e disincantata.
Sono così brutte le orecchie allargate.” http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=iO1ToQ...
Proto Beckett. Beckett learned everything from this book. Not sure when he read it, but the character and the style are very similar to Watt.
Följer instagramkontot ich_bin_ein_bokmal för att det speglar mitt litterära ethos; att så ofta det går läsa lite alternativa eller bortglömda böcker av hög kvalitet. Den här är sorglig, men så fin och unik. Hjalmar Söderberg möter Pessoa!Fanns flera exemplar på Bokbörsen.
C’est également un tour de force stylistique qui atteint un grand niveau d'incarnation dans une forme brève avec des effets minimalistes, où chaque phrase est savoureuse."J’aime les enfants, aussi quand je rencontre ces deux gamines, je leur adresse la parole.
Alors, elles marchent à reculons et, subitement, sans me répondre, elles se sauvent.""J’aime les mots “espérer” et “avenir” dans le silence de mon cerveau mais dès que je les prononce, il me semble qu’ils perdent leur sens.""Il regarda une montre en or dont les aiguilles élancées donnaient autant d’importance aux minutes qu’aux heures.""Cette personne en s’en allant pour toujours, m’a rappelé, j’ignore pourquoi, que je mourrai seul."
An adorable, understated little masterpiece, studded with relatable existential thoughts and vignettes about alienation, loneliness, solitude, companionship, and love from the perspective of a free-spirited, romantic, thoughtful, and passive slacker living at the center of a relatively buzzing, careless modern world. Through the narrator's lens, these descriptions don't overwhelm, but instead provide solace and invoke fellow-feeling. I wanted to give this book a hug. I'd be your friend, Victor Bâton!

"I think about death and the sky, for whenever I think about death, I think about the stars too. I feel very small beside the infinite and quickly abandon these thoughts..... Solitude, what a sad and beautiful thing it is!"
Wenn sich das Gegenüber dann nicht meldet - obwohl dies nicht mal vereinbart worden ist - wird er ärgerlich und grübelt lange darüber nach.
Trotzdem rappelt er sich immer wieder auf und gibt nicht auf diesen einen Freund zu finden, mit dem er sein Leben teilen kann.
Schade das er nicht verstanden hat, das sich Freundschaft nicht erzwingen lässt und nur weil er jemandem Feuer gibt, ist sein Gegenüber nicht automatisch zu irgendwas verpflichtet.
Niemand sollte einsam und alleine durch das Leben gehen, aber er steht sich oft nur selbst im Weg und macht es damit nicht unbedingt einfacher.Bove hat einen eindringlichen Schreibstil, der jedoch nicht erdrückend oder gar verstimmend wirkt.
The wry glint and ironic humor of the scenes keeps them from becoming maudlin or depressing.The highlight of the book is Baton’s encounter with Neveu, a friendless, depressed man who is collecting stones along the Seine.
When Baton approaches to ask why Neveu is collecting stones, Neveu tells him that he is about to drown himself, and he needs ballast to drag him to the bottom of the river.
Baton decides to help Neveu collect stones, and then he decides to throw himself into the river as well.

The story follows a very sad fellow through a few chapters of his friendless life in Paris.
There is something about the melancholy and drab hues of his life that Bove captures effortlessly.
He is a master of subtlety which makes even the most terrifying episodes of his character's life feel like soft cashmere.
If you are looking for linear storytelling and a happy ending do not continue; if you like to contemplate loneliness and watch a character who is as lost and floating at sea slowly disappear into a little speck, this book might be for you.
"Bove fu in effetti tra i primi grandi scrittori della periferia (ciò che corrisponde così bene alla sua scrittura eccentrica), consapevole non solo che non c'è niente di meno marginale dei margini, ma che ai margini della vita c'è sempre un sovrappiù di vita." - dalla postfazione di Beppe Sebaste
It must have sucked to have been a loner before the internet
A very sweet read...
I am too sensitive and that is all there is to it.”“On the way, I was very much inclined to turn back, but the thought of an empty evening stretching ahead of me quickly got rid of this half-formed idea.”“One always hopes to make a good impression on people one does not know.”“Raindrops were falling on the ground, never one on top of another.”“Guessing that she had been watching me, I made a mental summary of what I had just been doing, in order to reassure myself that I had not been doing anything unbecoming.”“I sometimes wonder if I am not mad.
Toujours un plaisir de lire Emmanuel Bove. Ce premier roman de 1924 paru désormais aux éditions de l'Arbre Vengeur avec de délicieuses illustrations est une merveille pour la lectrice désormais assidue de Bove. Une fatalité incroyable dans ce personnage cherchant absolument l'amitié en déambulant dans Paris et souhaitant ne vivre de rien ! J'en parle plus longuement sur mon blog : https://akathegirlwhoreads.wordpress....
Ich kann mich jetzt nicht mehr genau erinnern, wodurch ich auf diesen französischen Autor und sein (1924 geschriebenes) Buch aufmerksam wurde, es ist jedenfalls ein ganz fantastischer kurzer Roman, der mich in jeder Hinsicht restlos überzeugt hat. Übersetzung von Handke (1981, die erste und einzige ins Deutsche). Allerhöchste Empfehlung.
