https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/95141.The_Kitchen_Boy
Hey, I wrote it, what am I supposed to say but I love it!
aaaand my massive binge read on all russian related books continues.
я ни о чем не жалею!
i was blown away at how much of this read like a memoir.
the story felt so personal and so realistically genuine.
i believed nearly every single word of this book!
and if that isnt a testament to the phenomenal quality of this story (not to mention the research done to ensure its accuracy), then i dont know what is.
i found this to be quite moving, highly informational, and truly a gem of a book on what was otherwise a terribly dark moment in history.
In America lives an old man with a guilty secret.
He calls himself Mikhael Semyonov, and he starts recording into a tape recorder.
Does the man who now calls himself Mikhael Semyonov know what happened to the two bodies that were never found?
Why does he reveal the story now?Against a background of historical fact author Robert Alexander creates the fictional character of Leonka/Semyonov, and explores different possibilities of what happened to the two bodies that were not found when the rest of the murdered family was eventually exhumed.
For the first 170 pages, I felt like the Alexander was beating a dead horse by focusing on the same four points over and over again.
I guess I liked Alexander’s writing style.By the way, this was our Book Club's March book.
They kept telling me how the end had a twist and how they were still thinking about the ending.
So, I thought of the most wild and strangest endings I could think of—just in case it was a really crazy twist.
I was NO WHERE close to guessing the ending!!!The last seventy pages, WOW!
Like all well-educated individuals, I first learned about the Romanovs from the animated movie Anastasia.
Being aware of this, I decided to approach The Kitchen Boy as a newborn babe - unaware, innocent, and wrinkly yet adorable.You know what I loved about this book?
There is a mystery/twist, but I was a little oblivious and didn't get caught up in that at all.
This is why I appreciated the authors note: ...the indented passages, select notes, and letters attributed to the Romanovs, their captors, and Rasputin are all accurate and can be found in various archives.This helped me separate the fiction from the non-fiction.
9,5 de 10*Aqui está um livro completo! Não tenho nada a apontar, já que gostei de tudo nele. O tema - a história trágica dos últimos dias da família Romanov, a forma como nos é contada, com um narrador fabuloso que me agarrou da primeira à última letra, a escolha de uma forma possível do desfecho deste episódio trágico muito bem construída e ainda uma surpresa no final. Perfeito!Comentário completo em:http://abibliotecadajoao.blogspot.com...
Nikolai, Aleksandra, and their five children were the ultimate symbols, both good and bad, of all that was Russia...3.5 stars. If like me, you know very little about the Romanov's, this is an excellent introduction. The author explains, while blending it in as part of the story, the politics and history. He also shows that bad rulers, can still be good people. And to top it off he manages to still add a lot of suspense to a story where everyone knows the ending.
Na verdade, são 4,5.
Cansei-me aqui e ali de algumas repetições, embora as compreenda, uma vez que quase toda a história é contada, na primeira pessoa, por um homem já muito velho, e devem ser assim, às vezes erráticas, às vezes repetitivas, as recordações de um homem perto do fim e consumido pelo arrependimento.Ainda que se trate de uma ficção, tem como base factos comprovados e com testemunhos materiais, peolo que creio que fiquei a saber um pouco mais sobre os Romanov (sabia pouquísimo).
Para além disso, entusiasmou-me e comoveu-me a reviravolta final.
Granted, of course, we learned plenty and read books on the time line, learned about Russia, saw the anger and the mobs during that bad time, etc.
But no book brought to life just how tragic and serious that time of history was like this fictional novel.
This book is from the fiction perspective of the 'kitchen boy'- he lives with the Romanov family while they're 'under lock down' (basically, that's what happened).
God was in no part of this book, so I didn't quite expect for hope to be found in the story: but I wish it had.
Que livro espetacular!
Descreve acontecimentos com uma emoção e carinho fora de série.
Nem parece que a ação se passa numa casa com uma família e alguns criados como prisioneiros e os seus guardas.
Está muito bem ficcionado e tem ali 2 plot twists finais fantásticos.
A hemofilia está muito bem explicada.
Quem não percebe nada de hereditariedade consegue perfeitamente perceber como se transmite a doença.
De salientar que o autor não recorreu a um chiché bastante conhecido sobre o fim dos Romanov o que também me agradou bastante.
Porque é que não li este livro há mais tempo!?
I am demoting this book to two stars because after stewing for a couple of months, I've decided it annoys me.
The Kitchen Boy is not bad.
The language of the narration is interesting.
There is a stilted, halting, slightly awkward flow to the language which reminds me of how my husband (who lived in Russia until his mid-20s) would write in English.
I'm not sure if Robert Alexander (a native English speaker) wrote like this on purpose or not.
Just read Robert Massie's Nicholas and Alexandra, for god's sake.
Most of the book is confessional-style - the narrator (the kitchen boy) is spilling his guts to a tape recorder.
Robert Alexander’s The Kitchen Boy is a fictionalized account of the Romanovs’ last days.
Indeed, Misha suggests if the royal family had acted differently, had been more in tune with the country, they could have prevented Stalin’s eventual reign of terror and spared the lives of millions.Despite their heavy historical responsibility, despite knowing their fates, I irrationally hoped the family, particularly the children, would escape and was horrified by the manner of their deaths.
Like Alexander’s Rasputin’s Daughter, though, Kitchen Boy inspired me to research further to discover how much of Alexander’s account was based on fact and what we really know about those last few days.
Mesmo antes de conhecer a história dos Romanov, eu já nutria por eles alguma simpatia, é uma daquelas coisas que não fazem sentido.
É impossível não nos colocarmos no lugar do Nicolau e da Alexandra e sentir uma tristeza enorme por aquilo que lhes fizeram, a eles e aos seus filhos.
Gostei muito deste livro porque, apesar de ser uma história ficcionada, traz-nos muitos factos verídicos sobre a família e o que lhe aconteceu.
É claro que não sou uma expert no assunto, mas acho que foi o livro perfeito para começar a conhecer a história dos Romanov mais a fundo.
The story of the last Romanov Tsar, Nicholas II and his brutal murder, the family and their staff has been one of conspiracy theories, mystery and fantasy.
The story is a reasonable tale although I was bored with the constant day to day details of the Romanov imprisonment to a point that long before the end I realised that there were to be more revelations by the end.
One paragraph dealing with escape from Russia was insufficient and seemed a fill in.
The epilogue deals with the final twist to the story but is a disappointing effort.
Loved it! I love historical fiction. I get to learn more about history AND I get a great story. This is one of those books. And even though I knew it was going to end very badly, I still wanted to see it through. I especially enjoyed getting immersed in the Russian psyche. (from first reading)I'm excited to be sharing this book with a new book club. Yes, I enjoyed it that much.
Excellent historical novel about the final days of the last Tsar of Russia and his family. A plot that makes you want to keep reading, with a great twist at the end.
Releitura 5 estrelas
Opinião em: https://livrosgosto.blogspot.com/
Another thought that could be worth discussion about mindsets - it is interesting to know who read what during captivity, a great issue was/is made of Hitler's prison reading list.---Opening paragraph: America Summer 1998"My name is Mikhail Semyonov.
I was born in Tula province and my name then was not Mikhail or even Misha, as I am known here in America.
They sent me away, but I snuck back, and that night, the moonless night of July 16-17, 1918, I saw the Tsar and his family come down the back twenty-three steps of the Ipatiev House, I saw them go into that cellar room ...
It just didn't flow.It wasn't until the very end of the book (The last chapter and the Epilogue, actually) that I really felt like I was reading a work of fiction and felt any real interest in the book, because it isn't until the end that the fictional twist is revealed and explained.If Robert Alexander's goal in writing "The Kitchen Boy" was to document the last days of the Romanov family, he would have met that goal very nicely if he hadn't confused history with his random, fictional twist thrown in as an afterthought to conclude the documentary.If his goal was to take a well-known historical tragedy and turn it into an intriguing, believable work of fiction, he failed miserably by making his readers suffer through 20 or so chapters of unnecisary historical facts before getting to his plot (which only lasts about one chapter).I think that the idea of his fictional twist was great!
Contudo, em tal classificação, também tive em conta a brilhante escrita de Alexander e a sua soberba capacidade para, a partir de relatos verídicos e cruéis, ter construído uma história de grande interesse e sobre a qual posso dizer que gostei.Sim, é verdade: apesar de tão minuciosa e cruel descrição do assassínio, suficiente para me deixar horrorizada, consigo dizer que GOSTEI REALMENTE IMENSO DESTE LIVRO; apesar de ter acompanhado, ao longo das páginas, a triste e sufocante prisão domiciliária dos Romanov, os seus últimos dias, e de ter 'presenciado' a crueldade (mais uma vez repito, mas este adjetivo é mesmo o mais adequado para descrever o horror descrito nas páginas do assassinato desta família) da sua morte e a maneira como foram tratados (antes e depois disso), gostei bastante do livro.
I was really excited to read this book as I have always been interested in learning more about the Romanovs and this was a fictionalized first hand account of the last days of the family.
At first this was really interesting but than became a little much.
I love historical fiction.
I love reading a story woven with facts and information on time periods, cultures and events that I know little about.
The "fiction" part though needs to be only the devise, the serving platter for those fun factoids.
When the fiction part starts to take over and the author rewrites history, no thanks.

Having known neither anything about the Romanovs nor anything at all about Russian customs or the language, I found this book an excellent primer in those historical details many people are already familiar with.
The way that the fiction is depicted within the well-researched, factual occurrences is well done, and very creative.
At times, Alexander's writing style is....is annoying, but thankfully there are many dry spells of this "ellipsical" habit.
The end is pretty gory (as only the execution and burial of an entire family and their closest companions can be), so I don't recommend this to the faint of heart or to children.
If I could I would give this a 3.5. I think it is worth reading. It is about the Romanov's last days before they were all brutally massacred. (I know, very uplifting.) I read this about a year ago and I still occasionally find myself thinking about what happened to Anastasia. You know, they never found her body. Creepy. Anyway, I was bothered that there was never an explanation of what was fiction and what was accurate. I don't like that. I like to know what parts I read are true and what parts are just embellishments from the author.
*4.5*Although I understand it's supposed to be fiction, some historical inaccuracies bothered me too much to give this book a full five stars. That being said, I immensely enjoyed it. Also, the plot twist at the end? Just, what? Totally did not see that one coming. It's pretty much how you wish the story had gone. The Romanovs have fascinated me for years, and it was interesting to see Alexander's take on their last months of captivity.
Narrated by Leonka, the kitchen boy, this is the story - part fact, part fiction - of the Romanovs last month. Using some of their real-life letters, notes and diary entries, and with storytelling that incorporates both haunting factual detail and suspenseful dramatic fiction, it’s a desperately sad but equally fascinating page turner. A riveting read.
One of my FAVOURITE books of ALL times!!!!!!!!!!! I recommend it!My opinion on my blog: http://flamesmr.blogspot.pt/2010/12/l...
Desde que em tenra idade vi o desenho animado "Anastásia" fiquei fascinada pela trágica história desta família. Por isso mesmo, foi com entusiasmo que iniciei esta leitura que, apesar de ficcionada, certamente teria muito para me ensinar sobre o cativeiro dos Romanov. Foi uma leitura interessante, contudo tenho de admitir que, para mim, a imaginação do autor foi longe demais relativamente ao final que ficou demasiado fantasioso. Não fosse essa tentativa do autor de dar um final feliz ao livro, e certamente que teria apreciado mais esta obra.
Sem duvida uma das melhores leituras deste ano. Sou uma fanática pela história russa, sobretudo da dinastia Romanov. Por isso não fiquei surpreendida por ter adorado. As personagens são cativantes. E o enredo apesar de conhecido é muito bem realizado. Ficamos automaticamente atraídos e fascinados. O final é surpreendente e adorava que não fosse ficção. Seria tão bom que pelo menos um dos Romanov tivesse sobrevivido! Aconselho vivamente, tanto para amantes de história como para curiosos sobre este tema!
