https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/37683751-from-lukov-with-love
Have you ever seen the amazing 1992 movie that was The Cutting Edge?No?Well, I loved this movie growing up.
This thing was like a Kulti-fied Cutting Edge and it made my inner little 1992 nine year old heart just burst with happiness.
Cause not only is Edge one of my favorite all time movies and Zapata one of my favorite authors...figure skating is one of my favorite sports, so this was just a joy to read all around.
Maybe one day, many, many years from now, when I retire, I will decide to finish this book while I wait for my georgeous future grandkids to wake up from their midday nap.
That’s how traumatized I was by the heroine in her last book.And I know what you’re probably thinking.
Why did you pick up this book, Anna?
You DNF'd her last book.
This is Mariana Zapata for heaven's sake!Let me explain.
My sincerest apologies.And Mariana Zapata is definitely a writer.
I'm sure she will blow my mind again.As I was saying, maybe one day.
"If I can’t skate with you, I don’t want to skate with anyone else.” Well this is awkward...This started off as a solid 4 star read for me, and it all went downhill from there. Not to say that this was not a fun read - because it was. I was just expecting more*ahem* Ladies and Gentlemen, let me introduce you to one of the slowest slow burns in the history of slow burns. ____________ Here's what I think's going to happen  This was a unique romance novel. I would even go as far as saying that thi
I also think a lot of people will love this story for what it is - just like I have.
I loved Jasmine as a character because even though she was a bitch, and different to any other MC we usually get, she showed how she developed as a person as the story unfolded.
But here's the thing: Personally, I felt like their chemistry was at a constant 'best friend' level, because both of them needed that at the time.
It felt rushed and like the author needed to get out that they were actually more than friends.
No 30-yr-old man speaks like this"B2: *ignores bitch1 B1*B1: *wrings hands* but....you dislike slow burn romanceB2: *casts a pitying look at B1*B1: You said Ivan and Jasmine were too old.
*wails*B2: *casts another pitying look at B1* B1: After all that we've been through, you would do this to me?
Don't think I didn't see how you cackled at that scene with HRH Lacey.
I can't even comprehend those liquid things that fell from your eyes during the scene at the restaurant or how you couldn't contain your joy while reading the epilogue.
I totally saw it, you...you...Ivan-fangirling, backstabbing, slow burn loving traitor.
Despite Jasmine being Ivan's sister's best friend, the two have been at each other's throats since they were teenagers, and the animosity stayed with them even as they grew up.If they want to make their partnership work, they'll have to try to get along, or at least not try to kill each other while they're training.
There were times my chest ached and I wanted to kick Ivan where it hurts because some of the things he said were pretty sore points for Jasmine, and honestly for me, too.
4.25 stars!!! I am obsessed with Mariana Zapata's audio books. I'm kind of just obsessed with her books, period, but I love listening to them. They have the amazing narration and make my heart happy. From Lukov with Love was the best enemies to lovers/friends to lovers/slowburn/sports romance. Ivan Lukov and Jasmine Santos have been in the same ice skating circuit for many years. Not only that, but Jasmine's best friend is Ivan's sister. Still, these two have not had the best relationship. On th
I am obsessed with Mariana Zapata's audio books.
I'm kind of just obsessed with her books, period, but I love listening to them.
From Lukov with Love was the best enemies to lovers/friends to lovers/slowburn/sports romance.
Ivan Lukov and Jasmine Santos have been in the same ice skating circuit for many years.
Not only that, but Jasmine's best friend is Ivan's sister.
Ivan seems like such a jerk at the start, but he is truly the best guy with the biggest heart.
I love the duet style narration, even though the book was told solely from Jasmine's POV, Ivan's lines were voiced by a male narrator.
✨4.5 stars✨ “My mom said I had serious trust issues, but honestly, the more people I met, the more I didn’t want to meet.”  I don't know what's more sad:1) finishing this book2) my love life3) or this gif If I were to become the Prime Minister of Canada; every citizen will be required to read all of Mariana Zapata's books. I heard reading at least one book written by Mariana Zapata will clear your skin, make you hear colors, bring world peace basically no more trump and prolong your life but sss
PLOT ✔️ i could probably re-read this book 67 times and never get exhausted✔️ the plot is very basic and I'm pretty sure you've at least read something similar like this once in your life.✔️ it has that "enemies to lovers" trope✔️ AAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAND I LOVE IT OKAY I'M TRASH FOR THIS KIND OF TROPE ✔️ even though i've read plots similar to this; It still never failed to surprise me✔️ ssshhh i was so into this okay let me be ✔️ The plot begins when Jasmine is offered to be Ivan's skating partner for a year.
So, on Feb 2, 2018, I HAVE SAID:on Feb 3, 2018, I'm kinda speechless...This was the fastest long slow burn romance book I have read by Mariana Zapata, and I have read them all...so, i would know *wink*This was as equally or even more beautiful as the rest of her stories, but more closely this story is closer to the cult status KULTI & The Wall of Winnipeg and me have in my heart.And most of all, after reading it, I feel this tremendous joy and fulfillment.Yeah, you might even say It made me happy.
It about the friendship, trust, family & love.It's about self-discovery and self-worth, it's about being yourself through and through and giving your best at any point in life...It's about a lot of things that makes us human, vulnerable, strong, real and palpable...But it's also a story of completion.
5/5 starsit's no real surprise that I loved this one, although I did go into it a little more apprehensive than I usually do with MZ books. I knew nothing about figure skating other than I wasn't particularly interested in the sport, but it only took me a few chapters before I was completely in love. rtc x 2(also I just know I'm about to binge reread all of MZ's other books, because that's just the way of life. her writing is addictive).
I LOVED THIS SO MUCH!  'No shit.'  From Lukov with Love is hate-to-love story about Jasmine and Ivan that features figure skating. You can feel the hate between those two from the beginning. They throw sarcastic and hateful notes at each other like it would be an olympic sport. But in pair (figure) skating you have to trust your partner if you want to win and they both know it. So they have to do something about it. Step by step. From haters to best friends.I loved Jasmine for not giving up. Nev
From Lukov with Love is hate-to-love story about Jasmine and Ivan that features figure skating.
But in pair (figure) skating you have to trust your partner if you want to win and they both know it.
From haters to best friends.I loved Jasmine for not giving up.
I loved Ivan for the support he gave Jasmine when she needed it at most.I loved their fights because they were the funniest and made me laught out.Maybe this book might not perfect and might have its flaws but it was perfect for me.
***New Zapata's book?Love/hate relationship?I AM SO SOLD!
"If I had to choose anyone to help me bury a body, eat dinner with, or watch television with, it would be you, every time for everything."  MY HEART IS SO FULL.I have laughed, cried, fumed, cringed, swooned, and had every other reaction in between while I was reading this book. Mariana Zapata has been so good to me - gracing me with such wonderful writing - that I actually feel guilty that my first impression of this story and these characters was:Because, confession time.It was a little hard
Mariana Zapata has been so good to me - gracing me with such wonderful writing - that I actually feel guilty that my first impression of this story and these characters was:Because, confession time.It was a little hard for me to get into this book at first, and some of the thoughts that crossed my mind were: JASMINE IS SO ARROGANT.
We've all had days when we questioned ourselves, "Am I good enough?" and "Are all the sacrifices I've made for rewards I have yet to see worth it?" And it was during moments like these in the book that made me fell in love with Jasmine and Ivan.
3.75 Stars Mariana Zapata gifts an ice skating slow burn romance. This novel does deliver on the banter, family, puppies, however for me fell a bit short feeling the love. Nevertheless, it was an entertaining read!
First things first, if you love slow burns, you know Zapata is your go to.
She’s lost her couples partner and isn’t sure what’s left to her ice skating career.
Ivan Lukov is an Olympic medalist, has devoted his life to ice skating, he’s one of the best there is out there.
This is solely a heroine POV so we don’t really get in Ivan’s Head, however with saying that, to me he clearly wears his feelings openly, to an extent.
If you have the will to burn, DON’T pass this book up.
I love slow burn romances and I was looking forward to reading this novel.
Not only whole story was too slow, but there was no burn and definitely no romance for almost whole book.
Let me tell you, it got super annoying after a while!This is a second time I got „burnt“ like that by book by Mariana Zapata because of incorrect expectations.
Looks like our definitions of what we consider slow burn romance to be are different and I think it is time to say goodbye to this author.
Just don’t expect novel focused on romance...
“We both know you love me.”  From Lukov with Love is a unique sports romance with complex characters and a lot of heart! With love and skating in the mix, what could be better? “Give me all your competition dates in advance. It’ll be the Hunger Games on ice. I’ll buy everyone in the family front row seats,”   Jasmine Santos is a competitive skater who has spent her whole life striving to be the best. When her partner suddenly drops her for someone else, she continues to train. When her arch nem
From Lukov with Love is a unique sports romance with complex characters and a lot of heart!
Jasmine Santos is a competitive skater who has spent her whole life striving to be the best.
Ivan Lukov is a highly decorated skater who has made it his mission in life to harass Jasmine.
Told in multiple POV, From Lukov with Love is a slow burn romance full of heart.
Jasmine is one tough woman and paired with Ivan she excels on the ice and in life!
Overall, I highly recommend From Lukov with Love to anyone who enjoys a slow burn love story between two adversaries.
⭐⭐⭐ 2.5 STARS ⭐⭐⭐ From Lukov With Love  was... like : The Wall of Winnipeg and Me—on ice, Wait For Me—on ice,Kulti—on ice. And Kulti was my least favorite book by Zapata.From Lukov With Love wasn’t necessarily bad, just a copy carbon of situations and scenes from the author's previous books, only transposed to the figure skating world.There were really golden moments in  From Lukov with Love , the banter and bickering between both main characters was truly entertaining, Zapata did a great job at
Speaking of personality, I'm probably alone on this one but why does Zapata's male characters always have to act so...
I told her in all honesty that it felt more like a strange extended camaraderie taking a sudden 180 ten percent before the end of the book.As such though, Ivan and Jasmine friendship was lovely to read about, but not at any time did I feel any kind of chemistry between them, not even with the fail attempt at throwing them naked together under a lame photoshoot excuse.
THIS BOOK WAS EVERYTHING. It's 2am and I just need to share my love for another fantastic Mariana Zapata book.   “If I had to choose anyone to help me bury a body, eat dinner with, or watch television with, it would be you, every time for everything.”    “Are you two ever going to get along?” Ivan said, “Yes” at the same time I said, “No,” giving him a dirty-ass look as I said it.   I absolutely LOVED IT. I was never worried that my expectations would be too high because she's never disappointed
I love that they don't automatically get new personalities or love each other in 24 hours like some other enemies to lovers books.
Get you some.The 'problem' with slow burn books like this is that you know they are gonna end up together but it takes a loooooooooooooooooooong time to get there and you just want to smoosh them together.But there's a reason MZ is the Queen of the slow burn.
Please write more!I BASICALLY JUST LOVED THE WHOLE BOOK OKAY.
Jasmine Santos was a very talented hard-working dedicated figure skater.
Coming back to the tale her partner dumped her (once again, why in the world would he do this???)and she was ready to retire - 26 is the old age in figure skating - when an offer to team up came from a boy wonder of Russian origin, a guy who had won everything there was to win Ivan Lukov.
Wrong as our gentle Jasmine hated his guts.
What did not work: Jasmine.
The development of characters were great - even Jasmine when she eased up on her bitchy act.
I wanted to fall in love with this book, because who doesn't love a slow-burn romances?!
Was that meant to be the slow-burn aspect?
Everything about this book just felt rigid.
As Zain (who I was buddy-reading with) mentioned, the writing was sloppy and needed polishing.
Major polishing.
It's the writing and the characters that could've gotten the depth of their romance across, and their dream that they were striving for, but since that felt weak, it meant that every aspect of the story was weak.
It's not that this book was bad, the potential for it was there, but I just couldn't connect with it.
the romance in this book was so slow burn it literally gave me a stomach ache.
Yup. I place the blame on Mariana Zapata's from Lukov with love.
I'll tell you something, there's a reason why Mariana Zapata's books are a one-click / no brainer for me...I'd read just about anything she ever writes...and yes, even if there were toilet papers in collaboration with her, I'd buy it.
I generally have a love/hate relation with slow burn romances but Mariana does what she does best...
This book is pure bliss.
It's worth the slow burn..
from Lukov with love is absolute bliss!
1st DNF @ 53%#youcandoitAlex2nd DNF @ 55%#loser!!!(?)NOT because of the slow burn, and the writing was good!Alex just couldn't stand the HAnd then she just couldn't...
4 Being Enough Stars* * * * Spoiler Free2018 Best Romance Semifinal Round Nominee UPDATE:  I have been so fortunate to have read many of these Semifinalists. If this review helps in deciding your voting choice, then I have done my job. Happy Reading ~~~~~~~~~~~~ If you read a Mariana Zapata novel, be prepared to dig in, become invested in the people and their quirks, lives and inner dialogue. Know there will be detailed experiences which could be part of anybody's life... and it will be used to
You are seeing a life through Zapata's eyes and they are showing all the good, hurt, determined and wanting in Technicolor Splendor.
Ice Skating has always been a thing for me...Watching the Olympics since little to seeing in person the Olympic team being chosen through the National competition.
The level of heart and how Zapata confronts personal pain is so real...
Wait For Ithttps://www.goodreads.com/review/show...~~~~~ Before Reading ~~~~~
Or I have just had my head in the sand...Leave it you to have the perfect book...For the Lovers of Olympics and Ice Skating...I am a sucker for both...BUT to have this done with your abilities...I Cannot wait to start...For more Reviews, Free E-books and Giveaways
I have made an important decision: Mariana Zapata, queen of slow burn romance, is now one of my favorite authors of all time.
I am so happy with myself.Now, From Lukov with love, is a freaking slow burn romance centered IN PAIR ICE SKATING.
AND NOT ONLY THAT, but the protagonists hated each other, so is a hate-to-love kind of romance and IT WAS AMAZING.Jasmine and Ivan are two skaters extremely talented.
If that doesn't sound like the most amazing romance ever written, I don't know what will.
It was beautiful, and it was written by queen Mariana Zapata.
I can't even right now. Review to come...
IT'S LIVE!!!!!!!!I'm so excited!!!!
God, yes. My soul needed this book.
The instant I put FROM LUKOV WITH LOVE down, I wanted to read it again.
I read some reviews that said Ivan and Jasmine didn’t have any chemistry!
I don’t know if we read the same book but, Vanya was ALWAYS it.
When I wasn’t actively reading about Jas and Lukov, I was thinking about them and how perfect for one another they were.
Shes fierce, a fighter, dedicated and hard working; not to mention self centred at times as well as selfish.
He embraced life a day at a time and navigated through life in a positive way-it doesn’t come across that way early on, but you learn how wonderful he is.
I liked the hero, I loved the heroine and the sports aspect was great...but then...nothing.Jasmine is a professional figure skater...or well she would have still been if her partner hadn't dumped her.
They even become friends....Now everyone knows that this author is the queen of "slow burn" , but in this case I didn't really feel the burn.Yes they were friends, and yes they were nice to each other...mostly....but I didn't feel any real romantic build up.So when they finally did take that jump....the leap was too big for me and I wasn't all that invested in their romance..
The most I’d ever seen out of him was a smile or two around his family, specifically Karina.But that was it. I hadn’t even known he knew how to laugh….Unless he was doing something shitty, like taking people’s souls and stuff.  There are very few things in life I love as much as I love the books my favorite authors write. Even fewer still are the moments where I can’t even finish a page because I can’t seem to find the breath to support the amount of air in my lungs it takes to supply hosting
I don’t do the dance where I can’t move on to another book very often…but this author, in the span of two months, has managed to do just that-make it impossible to read anything for a week or more after-with two novels I think I’ll take with me to my grave.
And that’s the beauty of Mariana Zapata-her books are 100% character driven, and you care so deeply for Ivan and Jasmine, Aiden and Vanessa, that every little thing that happens to them rips and tears at your soul, makes you a puppet to their emotions, twisting and pulling at each and every hardship, failure, or triumph.
