https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/16305.Evil_Under_the_Sun
After reading the book, I watched the movie adaption given some of the actors playing the roles.
You should read and then watch, too...
who doesn't love to compare!This story is good - lots of little twists and turns.
There are several angles you think it will take.
A good start for a new Poirot reader!
here's the scoop: I read A LOT.
I write A LOT.
And now I blog A LOT.
Leave a comment and let me know what you think.
Thanks for stopping by.
Many thanks to their original creators.
The title says it all ..... one of my favourite by AC ....
I was just recommending this book to a friend in another Agatha Christie thread and noticed that I had only rated this 3 stars.
I’m not really a big Poirot fan, but this was an excellent murder mystery with a particularly intricate and twisty resolution.The setting is an expensive, exclusive vacation resort in Devon, on the coast of southern England.
Besides Hercule Poirot, there are only about a dozen guests at the hotel.
The victim: one of the hotel guests, a flirtatious newlywed woman who is found dead on an isolated beach in a cove, strangled to death.
There’s a pretty good 1982 movie version of this book starring Peter Ustinov as Poirot.
"-Dar, domnule Poirot, răul este o realitate! Este un fapt! Eu cred în Rău așa cum cred în Bine. El există! Este puternic! Umblă pe pământ!""-Durerea pentru o persoană la care ții este diferită - nu se poate trece peste așa ceva. Dar poți trece peste șoc și oroare pur și simplu nelăsându-ți mintea să fie acaparată tot timpul de acest subiect."
Even on a holiday Poirot finds himself in middle of a murder mystery. It appears that it is destined that this Belgian cannot have a peaceful holiday! The plot is brilliant for the way in which the woman is murdered and alibi for the culprit. Unlike other Poirot novels, there are three strong suspects and when at the end with a flourish Poirot unravels the plot and rising to the challenge of the murderer makes him confess, you are left satisfied at the justice delivered. Interesting read

Choose Your Own Adventure!You are at a posh seaside resort and you are in love with a hot-bodied bitch, and even worse, she is not your wife.
You already have to deal with your clingy wife, the gorgeous woman you are obsessed with, rumors of murder, the hot hot sun and the illusions that can arise in that heat...
What’s an ambitious young stud to do?If you decide to leave this sordid affair behind you, grow up, marry and settle down, choose http://www.goodreads.com/review/show/...If you decide to give the seaside a rest and try an exotic journey across land as your next fabulous vacation idea, choose http://www.goodreads.com/review/show/...
All Agatha Christie readers by now know that Hercule Poirot can't go on vacation without a murder popping up.
This time the detective has retreated to a mini island thing (sort-of) with history, and he finds himself trying to solve the crime of a woman who uses her charms to lure in men.
Despite being another good mystery and having my favorite detective grace the pages, it wasn't as enjoyable as some of her other greats.
The characters gossiping and general lives didn't suck me in as much as some of her other fiction did either, but still another recommended Christie enjoyment.
This was the second Agatha Christie mystery I read, immediately after The Mysterious Affair at Styles.
Dame Agatha gives us a clue at the very beginning (no, you won't be able to detect it, even after I say this) which seems so obvious once the mystery is revealed.
And once Poirot explains everything, we see things from a different angle - and all loose ends are neatly tied up.And this must be one of the most appropriate titles for a mystery.
So Arlena’s husband has a good reason to kill her, too.
Is it in fact evil that exists under the sun?
She (though Poirot) wants to make a commentary about what people assume about very beautiful people such as Arlena being "bad" (or even evil) because they look or dress in a certain way.
I liked that part of the resolution a lot, actually.This is a slightly higher rated Poirot than others on Goodreads, I see, and I agree with that assessment.
Does a body turn up every time you go to the beach?
Then you might be a detective in an Agatha Christie novel.Evil Under the Sun finds our favorite little Belgian sleuth amongst Summer holidayers, a small sampling of flirtatious women, jealous wives, inattentive husbands and an angsty teen.
Christie must have spent a good deal of her time at seaside retreats, because that setting pops up a lot in her books.
However, recycling settings, especially very specific settings where only a limited number of people spend their time and only on a limited, seasonal basis is creating an elephant in the room.
Another good score from my garage sale box of books - an Agatha Christie I hadn't previously read. Our fussy and fastidious Belgian detective, Hercule Poirot, and his friend Captain Hastings, find themselves on an island spa at Poirot's doctor's insistence. Instead of exercising his 'medically obese ' body, Poirot finds himself exercising his 'little grey cells' when he fails to prevent the murder of a wealthy and beautiful woman, and murder he could see coming. Classic Christie.
Αυτή η ιστορία δεν μου άρεσε τόσο όσο άλλες με ήρωα τον Ηρακλή Πουαρό, που τυγχάνει να είναι κ πολύ αγαπημένος μου.
Και αυτό γιατί δεν με τράβηξε ιδιαίτερα η ιστορία.
Κατά την διάρκεια της λύσης δεν έμεινα έκπληκτη, όπως μου συμβαίνει πάντα, γιατί ούτως ή άλλως δεν είχα κάνει κανέναν ιδιαίτερο συνειρμό για να βρω τον δολοφόνο, καθώς ο Πουαρό ήταν πιο σιωπηλός από όσο συνηθίζει, ακόμα και στις ερωτήσεις ή τις παρατηρήσεις που έκανε.
Δεν έχει αυτή την ζαβολιάρικη περιέργεια, μιλάει λίγο όπως προανέφερα και μου έλειψαν οι ιδιοτροπίες του.3/5 αστεράκια από εμένα.
Coincidentally, our favourite Belgian detective, Hercule Poirot is hoping for a relaxing vacation at the beach but unfortunately he does not get one as he is called upon to solve the case using little more than his famous little grey cells :) The young and seductive Arlena Stuart is vacationing there with her husband and step daughter.
No one is terribly surprised when Arlena is murdered but, even if some considered her evil, the police need to solve her murder.
i thought this was going to be 4 stars but then the murderer was revealed and hoooolllyyyy shit Christie literally never fails to amaze mealso, i've read five books by her so far and each of them has a relatively large cast of characters and yet each character is so distinct and developed and unlike any of the characters in her other books??? how tf does she do that??? Christie is not only the Queen of Crime but the Queen of Characterisation and i am so impressed
We have Rosamund Darnley, a successful business woman, Kenneth's young daughter, Linda, a couple that cracked me up due to the husband going yes darling through most of the book (the Gardeners), a reverend that creeped me out, a retired officer, another man named Horace Blatt, a spinster (eyeroll) named Emily Brewster, and of course the police who come on to the scene that Poirot investigates with.
The remote island and murder made me think about "And Then There Were None."I always love reading these books to see how it was that back in the day many people just seemed to constantly be on vacations at resorts.
I loved it in the end how Poirot put things together.
The presence of evil."Hercule Poirot is on holiday, on Smuggler's Island, staying at the Jolly Roger Hotel.
When Captain Kenneth Marshall, his daughter Linda and his wife Arlena arrive, they cause quite a commotion.
Its up to Poirot to discover who murdered Arlena Marshall and why.Seems like Hercule Poirot can not go on holiday without having murder happen while he is present.
The tranquility experienced by the guests is broken by the arrival of Arlena Marshall (formerly Stuart).
Arlena is credited with breaking up a marriage and has a reputation for misleading men and she seems to have caught the eye of one at the hotel already.
A young couple, Christine and Patrick Redfern, are also staying at the hotel, and it is soon clear that Patrick Redfern is smitten with Arlena Marshall something which she does nothing to discourage...Agatha Christie really builds the tension in this novel, as the relationships between the various characters make the holiday atmosphere uncomfortable for those residents at the hotel, who are all too aware of Christine Redfern’s embarrassing situation.
Of course, Poirot’s holiday is disturbed by a murder and, although Christie’s novels are always exquisitely plotted, this is a particularly interesting puzzle, with a great ending.
I will not give the plot away – if you are lucky enough not to know how this novel ends, then it is an excellent introduction to Poirot and one of Christie’s best mysteries.
Poirot's vacation is interrupted with a murder11 March 2015 Well, after reading And Then There Were None I was wondering whether I was going to be able to read another Agatha Christie book – well it seems that I have. Okay, I selected five from my Mum's bookshelf, namely the five that I knew about, just to get a good sampling of her work. Unfortunately of the five that I grabbed, four of them happened to be Hercule Poirot mysteries (and none of the Ms Marple – which I'm going to have to rectify
Poirot's vacation is interrupted with a murder11 March 2015	Well, after reading And Then There Were None I was wondering whether I was going to be able to read another Agatha Christie book – well it seems that I have.
Well, it probably does happen, but you are never actually going to learn about the detective's musings until such a time that the trial is over, the murderer has been convicted, and everything released to the media.
Nope, if I enter that into Google it simply turns up a bunch of references to Agatha Christie novels, but nothing from a tabloid.
Perhaps not one of the most riveting of Poirot's cases nonetheless Evil under the Sun is another classic addition to Agatha Christie's flawless bibliography. However the solution to the case may take a lot of convincing to be feasible. I read Christie for escapism and enjoyment and it delivered on both.
Agatha never disappoints. That’s all I’m going to say.
Whilst holidaying in a secluded Devon hotel, it’s not longer before Poirot has another case to solve.As glamorous actress Arlena Stuart is found strangled on the beach.Poirot has noticed the tension she had been creating during he’s stay, it’s going to take all he’s skill to solve this one.Another great Christie mystery that kept me hooked, I love how she always constantly fools me!
Not my favourite Christie-mystery, but it is entertaining with a nicely twisted plot!Ahh, the never-ending allures of love triangles. :)
He claimed her detective fiction was worthless due to shoddy construction: clues strewn about left and right, with an eventual grand reveal strung together from seemingly haphazard information.
I understood -- the books can seem more like a vehicle with which Poirot or Miss Marple can display their formidable sleuthing skills and mentally lay waste to all villains in their path, instead of an interactive mystery-solving experience....but I love her anyway.
Christie has written so many books that to pick a favorite, I rely on atmosphere.
The grand reveal is always so grand.
Maybe I don't want to solve the mystery.
"There is evil everywhere under the sun" (Hercule Poriot)  4 Stars  A mystery full of twists. When everyone has an alibi just who killed Arlana Stewart? And what was the true motive? Blackmail, drugs, adultery or jealousy. The only person who can unravel the red herrings from the truth is the famous Belgian deceive Hercule Poriot. Loved the use of multiple POV's and the use of different voices under David Suchet's narration.
I'm a Christie fan and enjoyed the story, but also felt it was a bit thin.
This book does have an apt title - Evil Under the Sun. It also has Christie's usual finite, ensemble cast of characters with a love triangle, a angsty stepdaughter, an apparent femme fatale, insecure wife, cheating husband, unrequited love, and - drugs.
Like Christie had painted herself in a corner about the stepdaughter and this was the best way out she could think up.
Despite these personal annoyances, I think the core story was worth the read and one I'll remember.
I read this book in my mother language. I think that the crime execution was a little unbelievable.
3.5⭐
Mi è piaciuto molto. Come molti ho visto la trasposizione cinematografica con il simpatico Peter Ustinov che, devo dire, è abbastanza fedele e quindi l'effetto sorpresa finale non c'è stato. A testamento dell'abilità della scrittrice nonostante conoscessi il finale l'ho letto con indubbio piacere e divertimento.Poirot è sempre Poirot.
Mas, como em todas (ou na maioria) as obras de Agatha Christie, o assassínio dá-nos sempre essa impressão, impressionando-nos no seu final empolgante, não por se tratar de uma cena de ação de cortar a respiração, como em muitos outros livros, mas porque não há nada mais esperado numa história de Agatha Christie do que os longos relatos de Poirot sobre quem é afinal o assassino, porquê e como conseguiu a peculiar mente do detetive chegar a essa conclusão.
Pela primeira vez numa obra de Agatha Christe, consegui adivinhar o assassino pela primeira vez, mas os factos não coincidiam, o tempo não coincidia, o, claro, o álibi, a maior preocupação de um assassino.
