https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6400090-the-last-song
I never thought I would love it the way I did, I mean, I knew I would like it, but not that I would be this crazy about it.My problem with other Sparks novels:His beginnings are always very slow , so until now I never gave more than 4 stars to any of his books.
If you liked A Walk to Remember and The Notebook, you will love this one because it has the same style, while most Sparks' other books are of a different sort.
She managed to end up satisfied with her life and proud for what she accomplished.Jonah, her younger brother, was the sweetest kid ever.
(Is it just me or Milers really look stoned here*kidding*)Amazing book, it's kind of emotional and depressing in the end but still it has a happy ending. Ronnie was like a character that I can personally relate to and the dialogues are just humorous. It's kinda like predictable but all in all it's really meaningful and highly recommended to all Sparks fans.
A teenage-girl one step before entering adulthood trying to deal with life and the obstacles thrown at her, her dysfunctional family trying to hold together what hasn't already been shattered, and this gorgeous boy from neighborhood who is so sweet and courteous and attentive that it seems like Nicholas Sparks wants you as a reader to fall in love with him as well.
However, Sparks defined Will, the protagonist's love-interest, as sweet and beautiful and successful and ...
Let's summarize: He is the perfect guy.It seems like Nicholas Sparks wants to handle every stereotype available out there.
I wasn't able to fully appreciate this book the first time I've read it. I thought I should give this novel a chance, thus I read this again to see if I will like this more on the second time. I didn't like it, but rather I love it! I could see myself on Ronnie's shoes at family matters only. And how I wish that I have someone like Will in my life too just like Ronnie. hahaha!
Don't hesitate reading any of Nicholas Sparks books if you are a hopeless romantic...Ronnie - short for Veronica - is a troubled seventeen-year-old.
Her parents divorced three years ago, and she hasn't spoken to, or seen her father since then.
When she is forced to spend the summer with her dad in a small beach town in North Carolina, she is soon on the edge of `out-of-control'.
However, over the weeks of the summer, she experiences her first love, and discovers things that change not only her outlook on life, but also her very existence.
Reviewed by Jaglvr for TeensReadToo.comVeronica "Ronnie" Miller won't be eighteen until the end of the summer, so she has to follow her mom's rules and is off with her younger brother, Jonah, to spend the summer with her dad in a North Carolina beach town.
With the addition of Miley in the title role when the movie is released, THE LAST SONG will find even wider circulation.As with all of Mr. Sparks' books, expect tears, joy, love, and ultimately redemption and forgiveness for many of the characters.
I have always enjoyed Sparks’ books but we all know that we can only read his books at certain times (at least for me) because we CRY!
I have read almost all of them and so far, this one takes the cake.
Ronnie is such a relatable character to me on many levels and the whole first love/coming of age story is something that we have all experienced.
I fell in love with the characters, cried when they cried (of course), got mad when they did stupid things, and was rooting for Ronnie the entire time.
Loved this book. It was different to the movie and went into more detail. I loved the ending better than the movie, after such a sad thing that happened I was glad Ronnie and Will get back together.
17-year-old Veronica "Ronnie" Miller is a troubled teenager who is wanting to live her own life and is trying her very best to ignore her divorced parents: Kim, her mother with whom she lives in New York, and Steve, her father who lives in his hometown of Wrightsville Beach, NC.
Her mother decides that it would be in everyone's best interest if Ronnie and her 10-year-old brother, Jonah, spent the summer in Wrightsville Beach with Steve.
نویسنده در این رمان از عشق، شادی، آرامش، صبر، مهربانی، خوبی، تعهد و جوانمردی و ...
I've read a few Sparks books and for the most part, I’ve really enjoyed them from beginning to end.
During this summer of growth, revelation and maturity, Ronnie is faced with the possibility of mending her differences and coming to terms with her new reality.Overall, I feel this book isn’t one of Sparks strongest examples of his writing abilities, but it’s signature of his style to pull at your heart strings.
“Sometimes you have to be apart from people you love, but that doesn't make you love them any less. Sometimes you love them more.” Astonishing good. It's my first Nicholas Sparks novel and I don't intend it to be my last after reading this. I like the way he writes and the way he depicts life in the most real way possible. This book had something true to it, well, it must have been the characters who had a vibe of realness in them that most books lack sometimes. Ronnie is a seventeen-year-old g
And they fall in love, they spend their summer together, always together, doing things together like watching over the turtle nest outside Ronnie's house because a raccoon has been seen lurking around.
Which is why I loved it so much.I've certainly watched my share of romantic movies based on Mr. Spark's novels but I've never quite liked them that much that I would grab the book and read it but maybe it's just that the movies lack what his books have, that magic and realness because the movies seem somehow shallow..Well, okay, read this because it's heartbreaking and heartmending and it explores lots of things about the parent-kid relationship.
After her parents divorced, seventeen year old Veronica "Ronnie" Miller felt as if her world was crumbling around her, especially when her father decides to move from New York City to Wilmington, North Carolina.
Three years on and still Ronnie is angry and has a bad attitude especially towards her mother.
In fact Ronnie is becoming a handful to say the least.
Ronnie's mother decides the best thing is for her daughter is to spend the summer with her father.
Could this be exactly what Ronnie needs or could it make things worse?
Ένα πολύ γλυκό, τρυφερό και πολυυυυυυυ συγκινητικό βιβλίο.
Είναι απλό αφηγηματικά και πολύ ευκολοδιάβαστο.
Τα κεφάλαια αν και σε τριτοπρόσωπη αφήγηση, χωρίζονται ανά ήρωα, με την οπτική γωνία του καθένα κάθε φορά, με μια μικρή προτίμηση στην Ρονι.Το διάβασα πολύ ευχάριστα, αλλά σε ένα σημείο προς το τέλος μου το χάλασε, (εσείς που το διαβάσατε ξέρετε σε τι αναφέρομαι, εσείς που θα το διαβάσετε θα καταλάβετε) θεωρώ ότι το τράβηξε οοοσο μπορούσε για να βγάλει συγκίνηση.
Δεν ήταν ανάγκη!
Φυσικά όλο εκείνο το κομμάτι δεν το διάβασα.
Δεν μπορώ να κλαίω στα βιβλία βρε παιδιά, με πιάνει η καρδιά μου!
I cried a lot.Half way through the book, I decided I would download the osp for the movie.
And while reading, I was listening to the song over and over again.
I borrowed and put MAGYK aside to read this.And I will never regret it.I told you, half way till end, I was listening to Miley Cyrus sing 'When I look at you'.
Then I read Chapter 31.
And when i finished crying, I'll hear the chorus of the song, and read more touching scenes and I will cry again.
Not reading this would be like never having to taste chocolate.
• "Primero tienes que aprender perdonarte a ti misma" • Siguiendo su estilo romántico y dramático que tanto lo caracterizan, Nicholas Sparks nos vuelve a emocionar con "La última canción", una novela de amor y de perdón.Todo comienza en las vacaciones de verano, cuando una adolescente de 17 años rebelde y hostil se ve obligada a pasar el verano en un pueblo de Carolina del Norte con su papá y su hermano menor.
"La vida era como una canción. En el comienzo, hay misterio, al final, hay una confirmación, pero es en el medio donde todas las emociones se asientan para hacer que todo valga la pena". ¡¡Amé, amé, AMÉ este libro!!Sin embargo... ¡a leer con Kleenex! Los que vieron la peli, ya están prevenidos de que se puede terminar así:...o así...o, como en mi caso, así:
I had fun reading this book :DI've been fangirling during the cute moments between Ronnie and Will.
They were frenemies at first but of course the love between them develops into something much deeper...This book has multiple POVs, each person has their own voice/writing style, my favorites are of course, Ronnie and Will's.
Beware though, this book made me cry like a whole lot due to unexpected feels.
So make sure there are tissues near you, just in case.P.S Nick Sparks wrote this book especially for Miley.
But quite frankly, she just struck me as a brat who needed a bit of a kick up the wazoo.Essentially, The Last Song is a coming of age story about Ronnie growing some self-awareness and some self-respect but it’s done so fakely that I could just not get into it.
Oh no, Marcus is lurking around causing trouble!So many things happen in this book that just seem entirely unnecessary.
Sparks seems quite religious, God and religion was a bit of a theme in Dear John too, but it was much more prevalent in this book.

I first read this book 8 or 9 years ago before the movie came out and I absolutely loved it (I also loved the movie and it is a fairly good adaptation but the book is better.
I am glad to say that years later, my opinion on the book hasn't changed and I loved it just as much this time around.When I was younger, I used to love all of Nicholas Sparks's books.
Throughout the novel, we see how Ronnie's relationship with her dad changes by her being forced to spend the summer there, as well as seeing her fall in love for the first time.
An angst-ridden teenager.
A boy (for no apparent reason) falls for her.
She starts to show her real personality.
She and her father reconnect.
Her father coughs.
Revelations start coming out of everywhere.
Her dad's dying (see above: cough).
She verbally abuses the boy and he kindly takes it, because he's a gentlemen.
Her dad dies.
She's matured as a person.
She goes home and completes the task her father left her with.
The boy returns.
There is nothing endearing about the aggressive Ronnie and nothing deep or revealing about her relationship with Will, there only connection seems to be angst.
About the middle of the book something really shocking happens.
I would have never guessed it happened.
This is totally a girl book!
Once you read the book you get why The Last Song is such a good title!
And why it's The Last Song.
The reason for why it's called The Last Song is sad.
I decided to give this book a try because I saw the preveiw for the movie and it looked good.
I also gave this book a try because Nicholas Sparks wrote one of my favorite movies.
Good movie!-Girl movie.
The Last Song is a heartfelt story about first love, loss, the common problems of a teenager's life and is filled with many emotions and stunning, but imperfect characters that develop throughout the novel.
It's a quick summer read that portrays many realistic feelings of the characters, good writing (that isn't overly descriptive), fun/sad experiences of life, and has a great solid storyline from beginning to end.
The Last Song is a beautiful coming-of-age book about first love, family, loss, and plenty of drama.
More than 5 stars ,I enjoyed reading it from the first word to the last word of it , It was a light reading, and PERFECT
Buddy read with my good friend Joanne

Finally I picked it up and I'm so very glad I did.I can't began to explain how much more I love the book rather than the movie.
It broke my heart and filled it with joy at the same time to see Ronnie and Steve interact with each other on such a deep level.
It really surprised me when I read about the true story lines and backgrounds of Marcus, Ronnie, Will, Steve and Blaze.
Nicholas Sparks  truly inspired me with this character and I don't think any other character could trump Steve.
Overall-  This book was all around amazing and I'm so very happy to have finally read a  Nicholas Sparks  book.
The Last Song is by far so much better than the movie.
There are so many details that were not done in the movie that Sparks truly made the book feel complete and perfect.
He always adds a dramatic twist at the end of his books, which is why I enjoy reading them!
However, the ending of this book is so bittersweet and adorable that made me love it even more.
Of course, If I could change one thing about this book, I wouldn't want it to be so predictable, especially when it got towards the end.
The main character is 17 yrs old and with Miley Cyrus having a say in the character's name and a dedication in front of the book, it is sure to be a seller among young teen readers!
I don't like the way the mother handled the "divorce" situation, I think that the 17 year old was a disrespectful to her family and with no real consequences.
I like how the relationship between the father/daughter ended up but I feel sad that so many years were lost because of a misunderstanding that the mother was aware of.
I read this on a summer holiday, I recall being in a caravan and also being at the beach at the time. Isn't it funny the things that we remember whilst revisiting a book. This was a really nice story, Mr Sparks will always deliver a sweet story with angst and emotion, and always a message thrown in for reflection as well.
