https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/29430788-faithful
I have read just three of them and it is apparent to me what a great story teller she is .
While this felt YA at first , it became clear that what happened to Shelby and Helene could happen to anyone and how Shelby deals with it or didn't actually , could happen to anyone.
I felt for Shelby right from the beginning hoping she could forgive herself, care about herself as she deals with guilt, depression and lack of self worth.
These are characters you'll care about .
And I can't forget about the dogs she saves or is it the other way around?
After a horrific accident leaves her best friend in a comma (this is a little bit of an odd situation) and she’s able to walk away virtually unharmed, Shelby has tremendous guilt.
It was little things, coming together at just the right moments, that gave her the strength to find her way to the surface and let go.
All with different messages urging her to do things like - say something, do something, be something, feel something, want something, save something, believe something, love something.
The only other book of hers I’ve read, The Museum of Extraordinary Things, had an entirely different feel, but what they both have in common - her beautiful words.
Honestly - for one thing, I don't understand why this story had Helene live at all?We certainly never get a chance to explore her living in her parents home, as a brain injury daughter for eight years?
I had an issue with Helene being in her parents home for those eight years.
Oh and for the first two years after the accident - kids from the school - who did 'not' know Helene were crying?
There was a time when Shelby ran into a neighbor who was just coming out of the house from seeing Helene when she tells Shelby ...."oh Helene is such a beautiful girl".I'm thinking...
"In February,when the snow comes down hard, little globes of light are left along Route 110, on the side of the road that slopes off when a driver least expects it. The lights are candles set inside paper bags, surrounded by sand, and they burn past midnight. They shouldn't last for that amount of time, but that's part of the miracle." There's a heat wave all over Greece at the moment I'm writing this review. I don't like summer and heat, I want to live in a place of eternal winter. Also, brigh
This is how deeply I feel in love with Hoffman's novel.After a horrific car accident, Shelby's life changes dramatically.
And if by now you haven't been convinced that the writing is impeccable, I don't think I can trust you...I read that it took Hoffman ten years to write Faithful and this definitely shows in the way the story is tightly put together, in the characters that are fully developed, in the interactions that are realistic and vivid.
I mean, come on...This is perfection.Shelby is one of the most beautiful, most memorable characters out of all the books I've ever read in my life.
Obviously not in the right section of the bookstore!FAITHFUL by ALICE HOFFMAN was a spellbinding and beautifully told coming-of-age story that I devoured in two sittings which rarely happens for me as I normally don't get that much time to read in a sitting!Although I do find the embossed floral blue COVER of this book very attractive and pretty it isn't the reason I chose this book to read.
Thank you, Brenda!To be totally honest while I was reading this novel I didn't really discover any clues or figure out the reasoning behind why the author chose this particular TITLE for her book.
The next thing I knew, Hoffman started writing woo woo stuff, like Practical Magic, and I ran the other way.I might have made up the term “woo woo”—sounds like something I’d do—so let me explain.
Woo woo and I don’t get along very well (with one notable exception, the book Big Magic: Creative Living Beyond Fear).
Good thing I did, because I ended up liking this book a lot.
It must be hard for a writer to get you to feel for a heroine, and though I don’t call it a miracle, I do call it magical (but definitely not in a woo woo sort of way).
Received from the publishers and NetGalley in exchange for an honest review.Save SomethingSay SomethingWant SomethingThese are tidbits of advice that Shelby receives from her "Angel" after surviving a car crash that resulted in her friend being in a Coma.
She cannot find the way to forgive herself for the accident that injured her friend so badly.
Shelby continues to grow as she saves animals and cares for her friend's children in her absence.
This book is big on forgiveness, acceptance, love, betrayal, loss, infidelity, moving on, and simply living.
I think fans of Hoffman (as well as others) will enjoy this book.
Before she ever left the hospital, she received a postcard with a sketch on one side, and on the other the words: “Say something.” It’s two years before she receives a second card, this with a picture of her house, a shadow of herself infinitesimally small through the basement window, on the other side the words: “Do something.” Shelby’s life changed overnight, the night it happened.
Always with a message.Eventually, Shelby finds a job at a pet store, where she meets Maravelle, a very young mother to three kids.
Shelby finds she being drawn to down-on-their-luck pets, those needing rescue from their owners.
After the accident where Shelby was the driver and made it but her best friend would live paralyzed and in a comma.
How does one forgive herself after something like this?
This is her story and parts of it are not pretty.A different read from the Hoffman of the last few years but her understanding of people and their imperfections, traumas shine through.
I applauded her watching as she, almost against her will, tried to move forward and forgive herself.
A very poignant story and one that touched me, that I found credible and with characters I loved.
Seriously, if you know someone like this, they need a mental health intervention.
This reads more like Young Adult or New Adult at best.The main character is late teens when we first meet and psychologically devastated by events her senior year of high school.
The second part sees Shelby's view of herself through the ugly dogs she "saves".
She's not even trying to be perfect; she's the anti-Stepford wife.All this combined with the hackneyed there's a boy behind all this trauma, and stupidness, and everyone not knowing what their angel was really like smells like Eau de After School Special.
She is stopping her life, matching her breathing so that it has become a counterpart of the slow intake of air of a girl in a coma."Shelby and Helene were inseparable best friends from the moment they met in childhood.
But more than that it's a book about learning to give yourself to other people again, learning to let yourself experience the joys of friendship, love, and having people depend on you—and realize that you can't punish yourself forever.This book started off a little slow, and I wasn't sure if I would enjoy it, because at the beginning, Shelby is a miserable character.
4.5 stars!! What a great coming-of-age type book!! It had everything tragedy, friendship, & romance. I will be reading more of Alice Hoffman's books. One more great book like this one and I might just have another favorite author.

It wasn’t hard to read because it’s bad or is written in a challenging style, but because it’s sad and for a long time it feels relentlessly sad.
Reading Faithful felt like a test of my sense of compassion.
It’s like spending time with someone who has had a terrible experience, who just can’t get beyond the sadness, trauma and sense of loss.
But it does mean that reading Faithful is hard, and fortunately things get easier when Shelby emerges from her dark space toward the end of the book.
I was skeptical when I picked this up, but was rewarded in the end.
Magical realism isn't my thing so when Shelby started receiving anonymous letters I was thinking, 'oh no, letters from beyond?' I was too hooked by that point to care.
Shelby is dealing with a death of a friend that she feels responsible for and withdraws form everyone.
Enter a friend, a few dogs, and endless Chinese food.
The healing power of dogs really can soften a character so full of angst and guilt.
I enjoyed this coming of age story as Shelby finds forgiveness, acceptance, and her calling.
Some things that happen feel like they happen to Shelby (the promotion to manager of the pet store) but Hoffman does a pretty good job of showing Shelby slowly regaining control and power over her own life and destiny, nodded to cutely in the ongoing refusal to open fortune cookies, until the very end when she receives her most on the nose fortune: "What is behind you is gone, what is in front of you awaits."
Alice Hoffman’s “Faithful” is a novel about Shelly Richmond, a young woman, who has her whole life ahead of her.
She finds love in animals who need rescuing and a new friend, Maravelle, whose family needs taking care of.
The characters of Maravelle and Sue were also very well written and assisted in Shelby’s growth as a character.Faithful is a book about friendship and love, conquering your fears, surviving things you don’t think you can survive, and most of all, finding compassion for yourself.I must say that I absolutely adored this novel.
She also rescues (steals) pets all over the city because she loves animals so much and knows what is best for them.Shelby, in her way, is a total Mary Sue. She's so determined to self-destruct, and yet just so special that all the forces of the universe conspire to keep her alive and give her a happy ending.
Romance played a much larger role, but, in the end, I only became convinced that Shelby makes horrible choices when it comes to men.Shelby didn't grow enough for me as a character, especially considering the timeline of this book spans over a decade.
I love stories like Faithful that explore characters who are flawed and scarred and that draw me into the their lives as they find their way in life.
I love the friendship Shelby has with Maravelle and the connection she makes with Maravelle’s children.
I do have to admit there were some things in this story that didn’t quite work for me and would have liked a little better closure for someone but I won’t say what or who that is, as it could give away something.
Overall Faithful was a powerful read with a satisfying ending for me that I highly recommend.
My experiences so far with Alice Hoffman's books have been varied but this was one of the good ones!Poor Shelby right at the start of the book has survived a car crash which has left her best friend in a coma.
I very much enjoyed the postcards which arrived periodically from an unknown source and seemed to be spaced perfectly each with a little piece of advice to help her on the road to recovery.The author writes well and the book is well paced, never dwelling too long on any one aspect of Shelby's sadness.
There was fun too along the way with humorous comments and some good times.
She is fiercely loyal to her friends and can’t fathom the idea of allowing any animal to suffer.On the other hand, she also gravitates towards men that are for the most part, not very good for her.Also she hasn't always being faithful to said men.At the pet store, Shelby meets Maravelle, a single mother of three that becomes her best friend and someone whose sense of humor and optimism helps Shelby through moments of failures and heartbreaks.
This book had everything in it that I love: dogs, books, and broken characters.I have to say that I love Alice Hoffman's writing- this one didn't quite have many magical elements in it like some of her past works, but I enjoyed it immensely.
My heart broke wide open for Shelby- she reels into herself and makes some serious mistakes (who hasn't), she's obsessed with Chinese take-out and always choosing the wrong life.
The drug dealer who changes his life around, a older single mom with 3 teenagers she's trying to keep out of trouble, a married vet, and my favorite- the rescued (kidnapped) dogs she saves.
The most magical parts of the story are when Shelby periodically receives anonymous postcards with inspiring messages like "Be something," "Feel something," and "Trust someone." The postcards are the one thing she looks forward to in life.
Each chapter is a transformative event in Shelby's life.
Who remembers you when you were young and handsome and had faith in the world?" The deepening of the mother-daughter relationship had me sobbing!!-------Vague assessment of my feelings towards the end, but skip the next part if you want to know absolutely nothing.--------!This is one of those books where there's a constant stream of dramatic events.
TW's: Suicide Attempt, Rape, Self-cutting, Substance Abuse, Depression, Cancer...Edit:You know what, the more I think about it, the more I think this deserves two stars...I am afraid that if I don't write this review asap it will end up with one star...(...)More than two months later... Arc Provided by Simon & Schuster through Netgalley Release Date: November 1rtHere's the thing, I am starting to realize that Alice Hoffman's writing is like a drug to me: I am addicted to it ( why? Idk. Faul
The worst is that lately, her books seem to be dominated by weak people and by their socially inapt families, and the fact that through some convoluted fairy tale scenarios, most people overcome their issues.Unless you're killed: Alice Hoffman's characters have a high mortality rate.Mostly due to cancer,(strangely, in some parts of the world, cancer is already seen as a chronic disease, but not in A.H's novels), but there's also drugs, and finicky parrots that suddenly decide to fly (yeah, I still haven't got over that one) leading their owners to death.The writing as always is great...
That's right, for about two years Shelly does whatever she wants, falling into a deep depression.And like I said the rape is never properly addressed, so yeah for me, that was really badly done.2) At the beginning of this review I use the term "weak people".
My screen confirmed that, indeed, this was Hoffman and that "Faithful" was a very different book than "Opposites." Once I let go of my expectations for what this book was "supposed" to be, I found that I enjoyed and appreciated it.
Hoffman aptly captures not only Shelby's emotions, but the those of her parents as they watch their daughter punish herself for the accident.While this book is not officially a YA novel, it definitely had that sort of feel about it, and those who don't care for that genre will likely not enjoy this book.
Shelby Richmond is a normal suburban teenager, growing up on Long Island, enjoying high school days with her best friend, Helene, and busy planning for college, until the cold winter night Helene talks her into driving to a party.
The only bright spot in her life is the occasional encouraging postcard from someone she thinks of as her 'angel'--someone who seems to know her innermost soul and what it needs.
There she is slowly, if reluctantly, drawn back into life, suffering a few more hard knocks but finding friendship, love and even a passion for a career along the way.
I was a huge fan of The Marriage of Opposites, so I was excited when Netgalley provided me with an advance copy of this book.
And as her friend is unable to live a normal life, Shelby has also stopped living hers.
Hoffman has created some wonderful characters and the plot just draws you in.
I had to keep remembering how young Shelby was and how much growing up she still had to do.
It doesn't hurt that dogs figure prominently in her life.
Many thanks to netgalley, Simon and Schuster and Alice Hoffman for an advance copy of this book.
DNF@30%
Ring the bells that still can ringForget your perfect offeringThere is a crack in everythingThat's how the light gets in Leonard CohenI've come to realise that most novels I enjoy grab me from the very beginning.
Ben is kind and so supportive, yet Shelby doesn't feel the same about him, and she's not very nice to him.Following months of drifting about, Shelby gets a minimum wage job, shelving food in a pet shop.
But then, Shelby's kind mother gets terminal cancer.
How sad is that?Through the years, since the accident, Shelby was getting cute cards with one word or a short message.
Feeling worthless, she needs to be reminded that her life is not over.
She is about to discover that while it’s not possible to save others, she can perhaps save herself with the love and support of some very special people in her world.For me this read like vintage Alice Hoffman although I would not put the label of magical realism on it.
Beautifully rendering the oftentimes complex and life-affirming mother-daughter bond as well as the value and sweet rewards of true friendship.
That said, reading it was a pleasurable interlude.Thank you to Net Galley and Simon & Schuster for this ARC.
