https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/991197.The_Complete_Persepolis
I sat down to read a little of this during lunch, and ended up sitting in the restaurant for an hour after I was done eating.
I wish there were some mechanism on Goodreads to occasionally give a book more than five stars.
Something to indicate when you think a book is more than merely excellent.
Like for every 100 books you review, you earn the right to give one six-star review.
I read the whole thing in less than three hours, and I can honestly say I am better for the experience.
A masterpiece of graphic novels This edition as the name indicates, collects the complete run of “Persepolis”.Creative Team:Creator, Writer & Illustrator: Marjane Satrapi REVOLUTIONARY WORK  I remember the days when we traveled around Europe, it was enough to carry an Iranian passport. They rolled out the red carpet. We were rich before. Now as soon as they learn our nationality, they go through everything, as though we were all terrorists. They treat us as though we have the plague. Persep

ألا يسقط يسقط الانقلابات العسكرية التي تنقلب لفاشية ديكتاتورية؟ألا يسقط يسقط الأنقلابات الملزقة بالأسلام "الأديان" التي تنقلب لفاشية ديكتاتورية؟ألا تسقط تسقط الفاشية الديكتاتورية؟هذا كان حال مرجان سترابي، فتاة صغيرة من أيران في 1979 وقصة عائلتهاوهي تتعلم تاريخ انقلاب الخمسينات..صعود الشاه..ثم ثورة الحرية العدالة الاجتماعية التي تحولت الي ثورة"إسلامية" ثم حكم فاشي ديكتاتوري"الثـورة الإيرانيـة"لماذا كل هذا يبدو متشابها؟ لماذا اشعر بكل هذا الديجا فو؟التاريخ فعلا له وسائله المعقدة ليعيد نفسه...في اي مكانهو كتاب جبته صدفة رمضان الماضي..شدني غلافه واعلم انه شهيرا..لأكتشف انه كوميكس بعد ان اشتريتهولأكتشف انه كوميكس بسيط للغاية..ايراني الاصل ..ايراني القصة..ايراني الطابع والتاريخلا ترفع توقعاتك عاليا..فهي أبسط أشكال الكوميكس، ومع ذلك الحكاية كأقوي اشكال الروايات الميلودراميةهل تعلم لماذا؟لأنه قصة حياة حقيقيةذكرتني كثيرا بمسلسل "ذات" -المسلسل نفسه اكثر من الرواية المبني عليها- والذي يحكي حكاية بنت من مصر من ميلادها بثورة يوليو 1952 وحتي ثورة 25 يناير2011 -والتي لم يعلم أحد وقتها إلي ما ستؤول عليهريفيو رواية ومسلسل ذاتوالكتاب علي جزئينقصة طفولة، حكاية مورجان سترابي، فتاة إيرانية من عائلة كبيرة لم تتم العاشرة عندما اشتعلت الثورة الإيرانية الشهيرة في 1979 وحتي 1984..
~Full review ~ 4.5 starsThings I didn't know before : The Complete Persepolis was originally written in French. Way to feel dumb as shit in the (French) bookstore, I assure you. Things I know now : Marjane Satrapi, as a French-Iranian, can't enter the US now. But hey, it's for your "security", all that shit.****** I just learned that French-Iranian had been authorized to go to the US with a Visa.Favorite quote from the whole collection :  "As time passed, I grew increasingly aware of the contras
I, for one, believe that we need this kind of insight just as much as history books, because as I said in my review of Rooftops of Tehran, it's way too easy to dehumanize people we know nothing about, to forget the much real people living in the countries that our leaders target.
It doesn't mean, oh my god, erasing western culture** - and that concept, loved and spread by so many of far right voters is so fucking ridiculous given the fact that we have controlled the narrative for so long, it's not even funny.
It means educating yourself, reading about and from people from different cultures.
The thing which surprised me most was that I found I liked the book better in Spanish than I had in French.
This time, I gave the graphical aspects the attention they deserved.But dammit, forget the Spanish and the artwork: it's still the story that wins.
Does she know what had happened to the teenage daughter of the man they knew who made false passports?Marji looks at them.Well, say her parents, they arrested her.
But, according to Iranian law, one may not put a virgin to death.
But, again according to Iranian law, the groom must give the bride a dowry, and if she is dead he must give it to her parents.
4.3 stars.This is an exceptionally charming, funny and real account of the Iranian revolution and its aftermath, through the eyes of a young woman who lived through much of it. I laughed, I cried, I learned things.
It shows the horrors of living in a war-torn nation, as well as how terrifying it must be to live in a country run by religious fundamentalists/fanatics.
The Muslim leaders recruited 14 year old boys in the war effort, closed down schools, targeted intelligent people and women wearing jeans and nail polish...As a woman, the sexist views of the Islamists made me angry.
And her self-realization as she tried to determine her identity in Austria and when she went back to Iran and was perceived as an outsider and a worldly woman also held my attention.It made me think of people,especially children, living in other war-torn places such as Syria, what must they be going through everyday?
Hace poco leí el cuento de la criada y me pareció un libro de distopía inconcebible en la actualidad.
Sin embargo, leer Persépolis me ha abierto muchísimo la mente, para una mujer occidental es fácil olvidar la realidad que se vive en los países como Irán e Iraq que están sometidos a regímenes religiosos extremistas donde las mujeres no tienen ningún derecho.
Ni siquiera pueden correr en público, maquillarse, enseñar los tobillos o las muñecas...
es que es tan surreal para mi pensar que eso pasa en el 2017.
Que importante es leer este libro amigos que en forma de novela gráfica se pasa volando.
Persepolis is a truly amazing graphic novel....
I keep promising to write a full review for this but never get around to it. Basically, I read Persepolis for my Gendered Communities course and I think it's one of those rare reads that actually gets better when you study it for the historical, cultural and political context. There are depressingly few Middle Eastern women whose books are read on a large scale so the insight which Persepolis offers into this part of Iran's history is very important. It offers a perspective we don't get to see too often.
Ugh. I am deeply ambivalent.
However, I really disliked Marjane.
They believed she was raised to be "free." I certainly appreciate their hugely liberal views in such a repressive environment, but their version of "free" felt more like "offensive" and "disrespectful" and "tactless." There are so many instances in this book where Marjane faces conflict, and instead of sticking up for herself in a decent manner, she resorts to calling people prostitutes or bitches or whatever.
I never thought I'd be one to criticize profanity or being up-front, but I found that they made Marjane very unsavory.
The changes in their culture, the forming of an Islamic Revolution and its aftermath; Persepolis is the story of Satrapi's childhood.
Marjane Satrapi also paints a vivid picture of what it is like to be a woman in Iran during this time of political and cultural shift.And so to protect the women from all the potential rapists, they decreed that wearing the veil was obligatory.At the committee, they didn't have to inform my parents.
For example, universities are closed and schools are taught that the Islamic Revolution is the right way.To die a martyr is to inject blood into the names of society.Persepolis 2: The Story of a Return documents Satrapi's attendance to schools in Vienna, the rebelling, boys, modernisation and homelessness.
Three hundred years ago it was the novel in Europe, two millenia ago it was the writing things down in general in Greece,, and really, if you can find a memoir that is erudite as it is hilarious as it is heartbreaking as it is politically conscious in a social justice manner as it is life affirming as it is of a country that has for decades been horrendously misconstrued six ways to Sunday by the United States as this one, please, let me know.
Books such as this and The Complete Maus remind us how powerful the medium of "comics" is. It is not all Walt Disney and Tom and Jerry, folks.
Also, more political.Most readers are unlikely to be really conversant in 20th Iranian political history and it is absolutely fascinating to be introduced to the topic through the eyes of an impressionable child, an emotional teenager and a jaded young adult.
Marjane tells her story in an intense, honest, funny and heartbreaking fashion.The style of art is beautiful and everything is drawn in a kind of a kooky way.
I though that the style reinforced that this whole story comes from one young person's distinct point of view.
İdeolojik yapının nasıl değiştirilebileceğini, bir ülkede yönetimi halkın hiçbir şeye karışmasına fırsat vermeden sadece devlete bırakmanın ne demek olduğunu, erkek egemen toplumun insan hayatına karışmasının sonucunda nelerin kısıtlanacağını, bu kısıtlamalar doğrultusunda sanatın nasıl yok olacağını, din diye tutturup dini en çok suistimal edenlerin pisliklerini ve din ile toplumun nasıl uyutulabileceğini, başkalarının düşüncelerine, yaşam biçimine ve tercihlerine saygının ne kadar önemli olduğunu iyi bilen İran halkının, İranlı Marjene'nin romanı...
Bu noktada kendime geliyorum; Çoğu kez söylenirim 'Türkiye'den nefret ediyorum!' diye.
Sen Türkiye'den değil, baştakilerin zihniyetinden ve bu zihniyet doğrultusunda değişen fikirlerden nefret ediyorsun.' diye.
her şey bir yana olaylara verilen tepkiler, düşünceler çok bizden.
Y eso que he leído cosas demasiado buenas.1)"Quería ser la justicia, el amor y la cólera de Dios.""La revolución es cómo una bicicleta; cuando las ruedas dejan de moverse, se cae.""Para despertarme, me compraron libros.""Para que una revolución triunfe, todo el pueblo debe estar implicado.""Me repugna que la gente esté condenada a un destino oscuro sólo por su clase social.""Ha salido la gente cargando el cuerpo de un hombre joven al que había matado el ejército.
Satrapi'nin ülkesinin geçmişini (ve bugününü) okudum. Umarım ülkemin geleceğini okumamışımdır.
"Nothing's worse than saying goodbye. It's a little like dying." My very first graphic memoir and wow… what a read ! Clever, funny and very informative .:). Marjane gives us a glimpse into the day to day life of someone living in an extremely oppressive regime, but she does it with so much humour and satire. I have so much love for her Grandma.I wish she had written a memoir too. "I have always thought that if women's hair posed so many problems, God would certainly have made us bald." Full RTC
"Nothing's worse than saying goodbye. It's a little like dying."
My very first graphic memoir and wow… what a read ! Clever, funny and very informative .:). Marjane gives us a glimpse into the day to day life of someone living in an extremely oppressive regime, but she does it with so much humour and satire. I have so much love for her Grandma.I wish she had written a memoir too.
  "I have always thought that if women's hair posed so many problems, God would certainly have made us bald."
Full RTC :)
loved this
Graphic novel was the perfect medium for this story.
I am not saying I would not have enjoyed it if it had been prose, but Satrapi's words and images together drew me in right away and I flew through the story.
The theme is that we are all people even though we are often defined by our government, media, religion, etc.
It is also interesting to see that people who we think are completely different may have more in common with us than we think.
While this may not be your typical super hero, monster fighting, graphic novel - I think a wide variety of people will enjoy the story.
I learnt so much reading this!Around the Year in 52 Books Challenge Notes:- 41. A book about a major world event (The Islamic Revolution)
Una de las mejores novelas gráficas que he leído. Pronto os hablaré más de ella en el canal, pero en resumen: me ha encantado, me he reído muchísimo y he aprendido un montón. 100% recomendada. ♥
Sem dúvida uma experiência diferente da primeira leitura. Vou ter que pensar melhor na classificação e escrever uma nova opinião. Ou revisão da opinião 1ª Opinião. *a ser revista*http://p-encadernadas.blogspot.pt/201...
I initially assumed that reading a novel in this format would mean I missed out on a lot of the detail or ultimately felt less attached to the characters because we only get snippets of their conversations, but that wasn’t the case at all.
I know this will be one of those books that I keep returning to again and again and I can’t wait to lend this to everyone I know so that I can spread the joy that is Marjane Satrapi's writing.
Also, this interview between Marjane Satrapi and Emma Watson might be one of the most inspiring things I’ve ever read.
A question I heard a lot while I was reading this book was "how does it compare with Maus?" -- and if I were to answer that question, I would say, I suppose, that I thought that Maus was more compelling, with more classically heroic characters, detailed, careful artwork (and-I-mean-come-ON it was about the holocaust, haven't we all agreed that's the official trump card?) -- but I'm not sure that it actually makes much sense to compare this book with Maus.
It seemed that way, sometimes, but maybe it depends what you expected from the book.That said, Marjane Satrapi's character is a well-developed one: never the perfect angel, not always striving to even just be good, but continually just trying to figure things out and attain the same, elusive happiness everyone else seems to have.
There's so much I love about this graphic novel.
It's both culturally relevant and impactful.
It's both amusing and emotionally real.
It's probably the single best book I read in middle school.
This is so much more than just a politically relevant story.
It's a story of one specific person in 1970s Iran, not of every Iranian woman, and it never tries to be everyone's story.
Marjane Satrapi owns up to her mistakes in life, to her darker side.
She has flaws and she allows her memoir to explore those flaws.
This is definitely a standout among graphic novels and literary fiction.
Η Satrapi,ένα κορίτσι της "γενιάς του '79" στο Ιράν,μ' αυτό το λιτό,ασπρόμαυρο comic μας θυμίζει ότι αυτές οι "μικρές" ιστορίες,οι άγραφες,είναι περισσότερο αληθινές από τα βιβλία στείρας,ακαδημαϊκής ιστορίας.Και,τελικά,αυτές οι ιστορίες μόνο "μικρές"δεν είναι.Μας υπενθυμίζει,επίσης,ότι η θρησκεία είναι ο μεγαλύτερος μηχανισμός καταπίεσης ενός κράτους.Σ' αυτό βοηθάνε πολύ και τα μαύρα χρώματα που χρησιμοποιεί.Συγκινεί η γλυκόπικρη ζωή της Marji,σε κάνει να γελάς κόλας.Σου θυμίζει να είσαι αληθινός στον εαυτό σου και τα πιστεύω σου.Αυτό είναι το πιο πολύτιμο μάθημα απ'όλα,που δε το διδάσκει κανένα σχολείο ή πανεπιστήμιο.(Αφιερώστε του λίγο από το χρόνο σας και δείτε και την-εξίσου-υπέροχη ταινία.)
Special and enlightening.It was delightful to learn about Iran and the Islamic Revolution, something so far away from me, through the eyes of a character to whom I could so easily relate.

‎دوستانِ گرانقدر، موضوع اصلی این کتاب، واژهٔ بی مفهوم و توهین آمیز و احمقانهٔ «حجاب» است...
و پدر و مادرش تصمیم میگیرند در سن نوجوانی او را به خارج از کشور بفرستند تا بلکه بتواند مانندِ یک انسان زندگی کند و درک کند که همه جا مثلِ عرب و عرب پرستانِ کثیف با جنسِ لطیفِ زن، همچون یک کنیز و یک ماشین بی ارزشِ تولیدِ بچه، رفتار نمیکنند‎امیدوارم این توضیحات مفید بوده باشه«پیروز باشید و ایرانی»
