https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/10104.The_Six_Wives_of_Henry_VIII
i have never before spent so long reading a book and having less to say about it at the end.
before reading this book, what i knew about henry VIII came mostly from one pbs (week-long)special and the herman's hermits song, which turns out to be historically inaccurate and not actually about henry VIII at all.
henry really wanted a son.
it's great to be king.my new favorite man in all of history is (eustace) chupuys, henry's much-harried ambassador whose name i adored saying aloud every time i encountered it in the book.
Extensively researched and fascinating - a must-read for anyone interested in the women behind Henry VIII, aka the patron saint of man-whores.
(I just made that up on the spot, but it works so I'm keeping it)Weir isn't completely unbiased in her description of Henry and his various women, but I can't blame her.
This is especially clear when Weir describes the way Henry felt about Anne of Cleves, his wife for about ten minutes.
You can just tell she's dying to call Henry a fat bastard, and I'm proud of her for resisting that urge.
Watch "The Other Boleyn Girl." Then watch an episode of "The Tudors." Afterward, immediately go to confession for such shameful and useless acts. Do penance by reading "The Six Wives of Henry VIII" to save your soul lest ye go through life thinking that the Tudors were all about bad acting and awkwardly placed sex scenes. Be warned that ye may lose friends when someone tries to talk to you about an episode of "The Tudors" and you turn it into a teachable moment about what *really* happened because you...you know...read one book so, of course, you know everything.
Weir is always lively and entertaining, perfect for a recreational history reader like me, and I found myself zipping through this as if through a novel, even though I knew how each character's story ended!It's strange, though, that my interest is always greatest up to the point where Anne Boleyn dies.
I always think that the real Henry VIII story was that of the Henry-Catherine-Anne triangle, and the rest of the wives never seem to match up to the cut and thrust of the Great Matter.
Still, if you're looking for a good recap or just a bit of Tudor entertainment with real-life characters, read this one.
A Kirkus review I read ages and ages ago, back in those days when their reviews were reliable, i.e. before it had been purchased by a publishing company whose aim is to sell books, said the book was meticulously researched but a bit dry. So unfortunately, I put it off until now. I did not find it in the least dry! The book's content  is  based on meticulous research, but in that Alison Weir, author and historian of British Royalty, is so very knowledgeable in her field, she has the ability to pr
This isn’t always easy when so many are given the same name – Mary or Edward or Catherine or Elisabeth or Jane.
Which Mary, Edward, Catherine, Elisabeth or Jane must be crystal clear.
You know a book is a hit when the first thing you do is pick out more books to read by the author.Books I have read by Alison Weir:*The Six Wives of Henry VIII 4 stars*The Life of Elizabeth I 4 starI want to read:*The Children of Henry VIII*Queens of the Conquest: England’s Medieval Queens which is the beginning of a series.
I’ve read some Phillipa Gregory and Hillary Mantel titles about Henry VIII and was totally entranced.
The only problem with the historical fiction titles, is that they only deal with one or two wives at a time, so I could never get a complete picture.
I also wasn’t sure how much of the stories I’ve read was fictionalized.
Catherine of Aragon – “The queen had conceived six, possibly eight times, yet all she had to show for it was one daughter.” Divorced2.
Anne Boleyn – “...thus effectively crowning her as queen regnant, as no other consort has been before or since.” Executed3.
This prodigiious work on the wives of King Henry the 8th of England is so well written.
It reads like a novel of suspense, passion, treachery, European History, betrayal, obedience, faith, God and love.
It did what I really enjoy in books--made me want to read more about other characters mention such as Elizabeth I and Mary Queen of Scots.
Also to review maps and learn of the royalty of Spain, France, and Germany.
Learn about the first theatrical musicals and how the masked ball came to be.
In the end, decide for yourself if Henry was evil, tyrannical or the greatest King of England.
That Henry didn’t object to these pursuits in his wives (Anne Boleyn too was well read and read some fairly heretical matter openly and with Henry’s knowledge, and Katherine of Aragon in a manner of speaking was well educated), even though this may have led to some serious differences at times (particularly for Katherine Parr, who averted some serious danger very cleverly) and although his word was of course law, I thought reflected in his favour.
Henry VIII, England's most famous and rougish king, takes somewhat of a back seat (though still figures prominently) while his six wives (their courtship, marriage, and their fate) are front and center by one of England's most preeminent storyteller of royal history. Intrigue, duplicity, executions, and, of course, Henry's marital infidelities that led to a major and cataclysmic reformation of religion in England, Weir weaves her spell that gives breath and personality to each of Henry's wives, and their feelings on the reasonings behind the kings dissolution of each of his marriages. An excellent read!
Even with this marital focus though; Weir explores some of the politics of the reign in detail making “The Six Wives of Henry VIII” an excellent secondary source for research and as entertainment for both novice and well-versed readers.There are moments when Weir is too detailed and sidetracks on the topic.
This certainly creates excitement in the piece and helps the text not feel so dry (which it is sometimes guilty of).“The Six Wives of Henry VIII” becomes increasingly compelling throughout with Weir becoming more passionate and confident in her writing.
Ένα πολύ ενδιαφέρον βιβλίο που αφηγείται τη σχεδόν θρυλική ιστορία των έξι γυναικών που είχαν την τύχη - ή την ατυχία αν προτιμάτε - να στεφθούν βασίλισσες στο πλευρό του Ερρίκου του 8ου. Μέσα από την ιστορία αυτών των γυναικών η συγγραφέας μας μεταφέρει με εξαιρετικό τρόπο στην ταραγμένη εποχή όπου κυριαρχούσε αυτή η πολύ ενδιαφέρουσα προσωπικότητα. Παράλληλα όμως δεν ξεχνά ότι πρόκειται για έξι ανθρώπινες ιστορίες που αξίζει να τις εξετάσουμε και από τη συναισθηματική τους πλευρά για να μπορέσουμε να καταλάβουμε ποιες ήταν αυτές οι γυναίκες που επηρέασαν την ιστορία σε τόσο μεγάλο βαθμό.
This was a very lucidly written and entertaining history of Henry VIII's six wives.
However, Weir keeps herself reined in, and these points come up as interesting opportunities for discussion and critical thought rather than an interruption in the storyline.She presents each woman as a three-dimensional human in her own right, and takes a very clear-eyed look at the rationale that began (and often, ended) each marriage.
I highly recommend this book to anyone interested in history, or who would like to know the facts behind the legends.My only real quibble with the book is with the printing.
הספר מקדיש חלק נרחב לתיאור חייהן, פועלן והתפיסות הדתיות של נשותיו.אין ספק שהנרי בחר לו נשים חזקות ואינטיליגנטיות, למעט קתרין האוורד שמתוארת כריקנית וחסרת אינטיליגנציה (ואכן היא היתה מספיק טיפשה לבגוד במלך מתחת לאפו בזמן שהוא מאוהב בה עד מעל לאוזניו השמנמנות ).
ומי שלא השכילה להבין שהיא אמורה לסור מדרכו, סבלה יסורים קשים.
הפרקים המתארים את יחסו לקתרין מארגון לאחר שהחליט שהוא מאוהב באן בולין ושהוא רוצה אותה למלכה, מזעזעים באכזריות שלהם.
כמו זו של קתרין האוורד.הספר מתאר את המרדף אחר יורש שגם יחיה ואת המרדף אחר הכסף.
I am notoriously slow reading non-fiction (I still have not finished John Adams).
So I gave this book 5 stars as I could not put it down.
I read it in a week (and it is a substantial size book).
It reads as nicely as any fiction (much like I thought seabiscuit was).
The idea that "sex" or in more euphemistic term "lines of succession" completely dominated all aspects of these peoples lives is really fascinating.
That Henry VIII actually lived and that these stories are in fact true is a testament to the line "truth is stranger than fiction".I think anyone would enjoy this book.
THIS WAS ONE LONG BOOK TO SAY THE LEAST BUT I ABSOLUTELY LOVED IT. A FEW MONTHS AGO WATCHED THE TUDORS ON NETFLIX AND FELL IN LOVE WITH THE SHOW, AS I HAVE THE WHOLE SEASON ON BLU RAY NOW :) THEN I HAVE SLOWLY STARTED GETTING BOOKS ON THIS SUBJECT. I HAVE REALLY ENJOYED READING THIS BOOK AND LEARN A LITTLE MORE THAN THE SHOW. I WOULD RECOMMEND THIS BOOK TO ANYONE INTERESTED IN THIS DYNASTY.
Die Ehe wird irgendwann zwar dennoch geschlossen werden, doch niemand ahnt, dass Katharina nur die erste von sechs Ehefrauen des jungen Königs sein wird.Die Geschichte der Tudors ist kein Neuland für mich, ich habe mich schon sehr viel mit Henry VIII.
a. habe ich auch “The Lady in the Tower” gelesen, ein Buch derselben Autorin über die Frau, deren Verbindung zum König die größten Konsequenzen nach sich zog: Anne Boleyn, die Mutter der späteren Königin Elizabeth I.
Oh wait that wasn’t Henry the VIII or was it?
Find out why Henry had the heads of two of his wives lopped off.
Was the last wife of Henry a mad crack whore or something?What about the children?
Find out if Henry really did sire “Bloody Mary”.You’ll also learn much about the politics and workings of the royal court during the reformation of papal jurisdiction and the dissolution of the monasteries.
But wait .
. What did the wives of Henry have to do with England’s transfer of wealth and power from the church to the crown?
A great book that I never would have attempted without audio nor without my book club. I had never read much about this time period and found it fascinating. If you are an audiobook listener like me, or an ebook reader, find a hardcopy and look at the pictures.
Weir creates a portrait of a powerful leader struggling with ruling a nation while growing older, heavier and having massive issues with fatherhood and fathering.As the book gets to Anne of Cleves, Catherine Howard and Catherine Parr, Weir does not disappoint.
In many respects this is the same story I've read from the point of view of the Children of Henry, the Life of Elizabeth and other histories, but from the point of view and experience of these three women.
I enjoyed Weir's following through with the stories of Anne of Cleves and Catherine Parr who outlived Henry.
Weir has gone into great depth, especially on the first two wives, Katherine of Aragon and Anne Bolyen.
The book goes into detail on the character of the six ladies, and all the court intrigue and political posturing that went on during his region.Henry was infatuated with women, and as well as marrying these ladies, also conducted numerous affairs.
He spent the fortune that he inherited from his father very quickly, and was always looking for extra sources of income.Weir has written a comprehensive account of one of the significant monarchs of our country, and the effect that his insistence on marrying who he wanted had on the religious, social, political infrastructure of our country.
The introduction presents an overview of life in the Tudor court, particularly for women.
I was hoping more of the book would be like that, and for some kind of conclusion that sums up the lives of the six wives.
I'm not entirely sure why I was hoping for a sixth grade essay, but the book did kind of end abruptly (followed by 40 pages of bibliography, which I did not read).I like Alison Weir's writing.
I found the history fascinating, and I loved how the lives of these women were so intertwined.
I became interested in the reign of Henry VIII after watching the Showtime series, "The Tudors." After reading Alison's Weir's well-researched book about the six wives of Henry VIII, I can understand why so much has been written about the period and why it still fascinates more than 500 years later.
King Henry was married to his first wife, Katherine of Aragon, by far the longest, and I'd always assumed it was simply his infatuation with Anne Boleyn that made him discard Katherine.
Katherine was seven years older than King Henry and was already in her 40s when he decided to have his marriage declared null.
To the extent possible, Weir focused on each woman's personality, her actions, and her own words, and as a result "Henry VIII's wives" became intriguing people in their own right.If you're unfamiliar with the fates of Henry's wives, the following six paragraphs could be considered spoilers.Katherine of Aragon: she was hard done by, both before and after the height of her marriage to Henry.
She was too reckless about her indiscretions during a time when infidelity to the king was treason, punishable by death.Katherine Parr: a well-educated woman, her marriage to Henry was the most amiable and mature of any of them.
Katherine married Henry's brother, but it got annulled with Papal dispensation on the grounds that the marriage was not consummated.
(And so did several totally innocent men, just to complete the tableau.) This marriage got annulled on the grounds that it was incestuous -- since Henry had already had an affair with Anne's sister Mary before marrying him.
I think this is because, of all his wives, she had the good taste to die before he got bored with her.
It's also pretty clear that Henry understood this, but he was hurt and wanted her dead for it.
I was really impressed by the detail in this book, if the colour of the Queen's gown was recorded then those details where included.Henry VIII was a complex and highly intelligent man who controlled a nation with fear and suffering.
Katherine fell pregnant six to eight times but only had one child, Princess Mary.Anne Boleyn was six months pregnant with Elizabeth when she had her coronation.
The only Queen's that Henry gave a coronation to were Katherine of Aragon and Anne Boleyn.
Henry's four other wives were Queen's without coronations.I will definitely read more from this author!
Considering that this is my second time reading it, I can easily call this book a page-turner!!
As usual, this book demonstrates that Alison Weir is undoubtedly among the finest authors and historians of our day.
Note ***Upon reading it a second time, I found that Weir's writing showed bias during the Anne Boleyn years.
I am surprised how much credit (aka: blame) Weir gives to Anne for Henry's actions.
Considering Anne could not rid her own household of Henry's mistress, I'd say the king had a mind of his own....
Another Alison Weir, another book I loved. If you're looking to learn more about the Tudor period, this is a good way to do it. She presents the story of the wives in a pretty readable format, even for those who aren't usually into reading historical books for fun. :) Well researched, well put together, very informative. And not at all a struggle to read!
My respect for Anne of Cleves is strengthened.
A very interesting and thought provoking read about the 6 Wives of Henry VIII. For anyone that loves biographies, this hits it on numerous levels. For lovers of history, this is a must read.
It's always fun re-visiting this book. So much great historical detail and perfect narration. Henry VIII was an ogre. The most interesting wives are of course the first 3.
