https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/35354.Remember_Me
Read a book you can read in one calendar day.I know that this book is not literary in any way, and it is probably not as good as most books I gave three stars to, but I'm giving this a 3.5 because, you know what?just so we're clear.I know these books are cozy mysteries.
While Adam is tied up with the case, Menley decides to do some research for her next book which she hopes to set on Cape Cod. She begins to dig into the history of her own rental, "Remember House" which is starting to give off some creepy vibes.
عندما يصدقني حدسي بشأن القاتل والمتورطين معه في ارتكاب الجريمة ..سرعان ما أفقد الشعور بالمتعة والتشويق :\وعند نهاية الرواية ..تبين لي إنه لابد وأن تسوء الأمور كثيراً لكى تتحسن فيما بعد..
الترجمة كانت قوية ولاغبار عليهاالقصة: لزوجان ينتقلا للعيش في بيت فالزوج محامي بارع يترافع عن متهم بقتل زوجته وزوجته كاتبة قصص لاطفال تحاول جمع معلومات كافية لتبدا بقصة من هذا المكان الذي انتقلت اليه رغم معاناتها من اضطربات بسبب فقدانها لإبنها بوبي فتحدث المفاجاتالنهاية كانت غير متوقعة
Σκευωρίες, κρίσεις πανικού, παραισθήσεις, αμφιβολίες, ένας μυστηριώδης θάνατος και… φαντάσματα!!! Όλα αυτά συμβαίνουν σε μία έπαυλη του 18ου αιώνα! Πώς να μην ξετρελαθώ; Απρόσμενα καλό, αν σκεφτεί κανείς ότι αυτό το βιβλίο ούτε το ήξερα, ούτε το άκουσα ποτέ, και όταν το βρήκα απλώς το προσπέρασα. Το πώς έφτασε στα χέρια μου και μάλιστα πως έτυχε να το διαβάσω είναι μια άλλη ιστορία! Σίγουρα ήταν πάρα πολύ καλό, δεν ήθελα να το αφήσω με τίποτα. Κρίμα που είναι εξαντλημένο.
Tt ces éléments me donner cette sensation de décu.أخيرا أنهبتها هذه الرواية تنتظر في مكتبة مدة 2شهر ليس لضيق الوقت بل لانني قرأت تقييمات عالية لها لذلك اردت تأخيرها لاستمتاع بها.اذا بي اصاب بخيبة امل.اولا اسلوب الذي حمع بين حكاية في ماضي و شبح المرأة و ربطها بحاضر لم يرق لي بتات و وجدت نفسي اتتبع معلومات لا تهمني و ليس مكانها رواية بوليسية.
ثانيا تمكنت من تكهن من قاتل قبل نهاية بمراحل و شخصيات كانت غير موظفة جيدافلقد كرهت العاشق السلبي الذي يصدق كل ترهات حبيته و الزوج الذي لا يثق في زوجته.كل هذه اسباب و كرهي لجانب الرعب جعلني لا احذو مع جميع و اعطيها تقييم عاليا لكنها جعلتني اسأل سؤال محوري.هل يوجد علاقة صداقة بين المرأة و الرجل؟هل من أجل ان احتفظ بمن احبه مبرر للقتل؟
Ακουγόταν με το ζόρι. Σε μερικά σημεία άγγιζε το παιδαριώδες. Μου θύμισε εκείνο το φτωχοφτιαγμένο τρενάκι του τρόμου σε ψωραλέο λούνα παρκ δεκαετίας ογδόντα. Σανίδια που τρίζουν, αέρας που λυσσομανά, μια μυρωδιά που πλανάται, το αφρισμένο κύμα κλπ.Τα κακά της διασημότητας και το πιστόλι του εκδότη στον κρόταφο του επιτυχημένου συγγραφέα για ένα επόμενο, γρήγορο βιβλίο.Εντελώς ακατάλληλη η φωνή της Ξένιας Δεπόν, που διάβαζε το βιβλίο. Ανάγνωση μαθήματος από το αναγνωστικό έκτης δημοτικού. Το βιβλίο ετάφη και εξαιτίας αυτού.
I really enjoyed this book until the last page or two, and then I remembered being disappointed by one of the Clarks before.
Mary Higgins Clark obviously does her research and she sets a well paced story with interesting characters.
Her process of educating the reader is integral to the narrative rather than a thinly veiled attempt to show us how much she knows.
(Thank you so much!)The last "note", however, was as anticlimactic as possible.
Had she placeced that tidbit a littel earlier, it would have been interesting and perhaps might have helped to build the tension.
This was one of my favorite authors when I was a teenager and I think I read this back then as it seems familiar. All I can say now that doesn't give me the same "wow" feeling! But fast paced satisfactory story!
THE QUEEN OF ROMANTIC SUSPENSE WRiTES A GHOST STORY....In an introduction to this novel, Mary Higgins Clark acknowledges reading several books of folk legends and history about Cape Cod and its outer islands near Boston, Massachusetts.
Although the house was originally called Nickquenum, an Indian word that means "I am going home," the residents of nearby Chatham have dubbed it Remember House after a story about a woman who knew she was going to die when her baby was born and changed the name so the child would always remember her.At the beginning of the story, Clark introduces us to Adam Nichols, a criminal attorney, and his wife Menley, a writer of children's stories, who live in Manhattan.
Reread for book club- good mystery and I had forgotten everything. The climax was saved until the very last few pages and everything seemed to resolve quickly. Logically the motives seemed a little far fetched, but was a still a good Mary Higgins Clark book.Read in 2005: One of my favorite suspense/mysteries! Full of thrills and ghost stories, I had to keep my roomate up with me just to go to the bathroom afterwards.
This is my all-time favorite Mary Higgins Clark book. What I like most about Clark is that I can count on the book to be clean, yet entertaining--a combination that's hard to come by these days. This one is set along the northeast coastline and has a windswept, cottage feel.
Am început acest roman forțată oarecum de împrejurări, pentru că îmi uitasem acasă romanul pe care îl citeam în acel moment, și aveam câteva ore libere pe care voiam să le dedic cititului.
Pe de-o parte este cuplul Menley-Adam, iar de cealaltă parte sunt cuplurile Scott- Viviane și Elaine-John.
Scott este cuceritor, dar dubios.
Mi-a plăcut ca și personaj, chiar dacă nu am fost de acord cu acțiunile și deciziile ei.Subiectul e bun și romanul are acel ceva care să te prindă, nu e genul de lectură plictisitoare, însă mi s-a părut previzibil.
Nu zic că nu mi-a plăcut, ci pur și simplu i-au lipsit lucrurile care fac dintr-un roman comercial unul bun, memorabil.
Hoping to mend their failing marriage, the couple move into Remember House on Cape Cod and try to start over with their little baby girl, Hannah.
Soon enough, strange events begin to occur in the house and Menley begins to relive the horror of her son's death.
When it was revealed that Adam's childhood friend, Elaine and his client were behind the mysterious occurrences at Remember House all I could say was: "I KNEW IT!!!' But yeah, I was a little bummed about the ending.
All in all though, it was an incredible book.

أول قراءاتي للكاتبة ولن تكون الأخيرة إن شاء اللهالفكرة كبداية مطروقة عن البيوت المسكونة وربطها بالأم
Mais uma vez esta autora não desilude. É sempre um prazer ler os seus livros e este não é exceção! Gostei bastante da Menley e da sua família. O toque de sobrenatural deu mistério ao enredo, o que apreciei.Gostei ainda de conhecer as histórias do passado. Quando ao assassino, não me surpreendeu...mas mesmo assim gostei muito da história. Esta é uma autora que toda a gente devia experimentar ler, mesmo aqueles que não costumam apostar em policiais!
رواية رائعة... تحكي عن مينلي التي فقدت ابنها في حادث سيارة و عانت بعدها من بعض الاضطرابات نفسية و الاكتئاب حتى بعد انجبت ابنتها هانا... قرر زوجها آدم اصطحابهم في اجازة الى منطقة كيب كود حيث كان يمضي فترة الصيف في تلك المنطقة ايام طفولته... وقام بالتواصل مع صديقه طفولته ايلاين و التي تعمل في المكتب العقاري لتبحث لهم عن منزل مناسب ليستاجروه خلال فترة الاجازة... و خلال تواجدهم هناك كانت احداث المنطقة تدور حول مقتل فيفيان غرقاً و اتهام زوجها سكوت كوفي... ما هي الاحداث المتربطة بين هذه الشخصيات ؟ هذا ما ستعرفونه عند قراءة الرواية ...
This was a great one - and set in Chatham with mention of many places we’ve been!
Ao desenlace curto e incaracterístico soma-se uma nota de ironia alegre demasiadamente conclusiva, prejudicial ao romance pelo tom factual, cerrado e decisivo com que lida com um dos motivos mais sobrenaturais do enredo.Compreendo que o processo de “educar” o leitor é capital para a narrativa de Higgins, e esse é talvez um dos poucos pontos a favor do livro: há todo um trabalho de introdução e gradual acompanhamento do leitor na história de Cape Town e de Remember House, sem o qual não haveria envolvimento possível com o romance e a trama.
Mary Higgins Clark ist einfach die Krimi-Queen für mich!Auch dieses Buch hat mich wieder von Anfang an gefesselt: Denn nicht nur ein unglücklicher Tauchunfall passiert, bei dem man sich fragt, ob es auch wirklich nur ein Unfall war.
Aber wer die Autorin kennt weiß, mit so was hat sie nichts am Hut. Deswegen wird auch alles zum Schluss logisch und ohne Lücken aufgeklärt.
Auch die Kapitel hatten eine angenehme Länge und dadurch, dass öfter die Perspektiven gewechselt wurden, kam auch keine Langeweilge auf.Mir hat das Buch sehr gut gefallen, deswegen gibt es von mir 4 Sterne!
Trying to save his marriage, Adam decides to rent a house in Cape Cod taking Menley and their baby Hanah there.
Menley, taking advantage of the situation, decides to write a book about the house they rented called Remember House.
In the meantime, Adam decides to defend Scott Covey suspected for murdering his young and wealthy wife who drowned in a strong squall.
Menley becomes friends with an Alzheimer’s victim who holds a few answers to Scott Covey’s wife’s murder and also to the Remember House ghosts.
Amidst the ghostly happenings in the Remember House and things happening out of place, the book is a good read.
Super impressed with Remember Me. I wasn't expecting a murder mystery novel that I couldn't put down!There was a ton of moving parts in Remember Me. Scott and his wife Vivian are out sailing one day and decide to go scuba diving.
Minley and Adam are trying to overcome the tragic accident leading to the death of their son.
They rent out a house for the summer, but Adam ends up taking on the case of Scott.
I was really interested to know what had happened to Vivian as well as what was going on with Minley.
It was really fun to read while I was in the Cape because a lot of the places, streets, restaurants they talked about, I knew where they were.
It was a super easy read (almost equivalent to how I remember a Nancy Drew).
But once I figured out who everyone was and got more into the story it was a fun, easy read.
The end made the whole story come together and it was not what I expected, although it was not a very exciting, thought provoking or intricate ending, it was still worth reading if you are going to the beach and want something extremely light.
Mary Higgins Clark illustrates suspense and deception with perfect ease.This is my first high-school book read, and I thoroughly enjoyed, right from the beginning until the very end. She reels more and more suspense into her novels with the turn of every page, making it impossible for you to keep the book the down. The unique combination of haunts, ghostly feelings and a detective criminal story line, makes this story a memorable one.I will surely remember you ;)Wonderfully written, can't wait to read the others.Three cheers to Mary!
Mary Higgins Clark does a good job of penning an easy read.
Menley Nichols & her husband Adam are vacationing in a Cape house named Remember House.
Dealing with a bit of post-traumatic stress after their 2 year old son gets killed by a train, Menley thinks she is going crazy only to discover that -SPOILER ALERT- Adam's "good buddy" Elaine & his client Scott Covey, who is on trial for the murder of his wife, have been playing cruel tricks on Menley to try to get her out of the picture so Elaine can have Adam for herself.
The ending wasn't my favorite.
A spooky murder mystery set in Cape Cod. A lawyer takes a vacation at the Cape but then ends up taking on a high profile murder case. His wife is still trying to get over the loss of their two year old son. She keeps reliving the night she lost her son and is now worried about her baby Hannah. She tries to tell herself she is ok and immerses herself in writing a children's book set in the early days of the Cape. The book ends with climatic twist on a stormy night.
Prose style: 4Plot: 5Depth of characters: 4Originality: 3Entertaining: 4Emotional Reaction: 4Intellectual Stimulation: 5As much as I liked the unexpected end, the whole story seemed to me a lot like the Rebecca's, by Daphne du Maurier, and that's the reason I didn't enjoy it as much as I could have. But it was very interesting and captivated me from the beginning. The plot twist was just perfect!
Mary Higgins Clark writes a good mystery, but this book was not one of her best. The storyline was excellent; however, too many viewpoints muddied the waters. Had she narrowed the field slightly, I would have it enjoyed it more. I also thought the ending was trite. How convenient that Menly would be descended from the daughter of the seafaring captain who built the house.
Loved it. This one is about Menley and Adam. Menley lost her two year old son in an accident, then had baby Hannah. They vacationed at Remember House on the Cape for the summer. Adam is a lawyer who represented Scott Covey who supposedly murdered his wife. Awesome twist at the end. Enjoyed the whole book.
this is one of Mary Higgins Clark,s older books that somehow got pushed way back on my bookshelves at home. I'm glad I found it. Loved it as most of her books. A great psychological thriller that leaves you guessing right up to the end. If you like thrillers and haven't read this one yet I recommend you do. I think you'll enjoy it.
