https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/3411302-asylum
The man was William Seabrook, a world-famous travel writer from the Lost Generation and the book was Asylum.
On a regular basis, he says things so clear, so self-aware that you're stunned an addict could have written it - shocked that this book isn't a classic American text.I read three of Seabrook's books back to back so I'm unable to say where one stopped and another began.
It was this fear and anxiety that drove Seabrook around the world.
Way too many memoirs are hampered by their own narcissism but Seabrook is honest and self-critical.
3.5 Stars. Some little gems in this book. Very 'One Flew Over The Cuckoo's Nest'. Worth a read.
Asylum By William Seabrook is a self-help and non-fiction read."With zombies in vogue and his books coming back onto the market after decades out of print, maybe old Willie Seabrook, the lost king of the weird, can finally get the recognition and infamy he earned." ― Benjamin Welton, Vice.comThis dramatic memoir recounts an eight-month stay at a Westchester mental hospital in the early 1930s.
Fascinating patient’s-eye view of a happy but all-too-brief period in mental-health care.
Physical restraint (straitjackets and the like) had been abandoned.
Seabrook writes:“This whole phase of modern psychiatric therapy, it.seemed to me, was legitimate and successful...if costly.
I am not using costly as a weasel-word or metaphor.
I do not mean that it was costly in terms of gouged eyes or broken bones.
I mean that this modern system is obviously more expensive to the institution in terms of actual money.
They didn’t have to pay salaries to straitjackets or work handcuffs in eight-hour shifts.”.
Remarkably contemporary for a book written 75 years ago. Given Seabrook's life (and death) I fail to understand why he is out of print and forgotten and yet his near contemporary in time and certainly in lifestyle (and manner of death) Hemingway is so lionised. I leave it to you to draw your own conclusions.
A valuable snapshot from a different timeThis book gives a view into the mind of one troubled by mental illness and dependence. It also gives a comparative to where society and psychiatry have arrived in the last 100 years. Valuable insights.
Heartwrenching and humorous insight into the mind of an addict. Written nearly a century ago, this diary-of-sorts gives the rest of us more than a peek at crazy inside an institution of old, and in the meantime, we may recognize slivers of ourselves through the author's candid self-reflections.
Well I enjoyed it. It was a good picture. Combine this with Cuckoo's Nest and it almost feels like you can have an idea what it would be like to be in one of these places at the time.
I've been wanting to read it ever since I heard it mentioned in the Big Book (1st edition) story Women Suffer Too. Seabrook tells of his treatment while in an Asylum.
Perhaps the saddest part is Seabrook has glimpses of some of AA's basic wisdom and yet it is just beyond his grasp or the doctors and system of the Asylum discount it and thus lead him right back into his troubles.Of note: pg 147.
I wanted to scream at the psych doctor.Sadly, they told Seabrook he could go back to drinking safely, which he did not do, and thus 10 years later OD in 1945 before his writing could achieve the fame it deserved.
A sense of well being is a sense of well being even if toxically induced-- William Seabrook, Asylum
This book was amazing.
Not in that it was thrilling or horrifying or anything I thought it would be when I picked it up...
I wouldn't say that Seabrook is an amazing writer, but he has this ability to empathize not only with others but his own troubled self.
I don't think this book set up the 12 step premises as some suggested, I think it shows one persons journey to understand himself and save his life.
What got me to the core was that he was afraid of life.
I feel you Mr. Seabrook, and I really would have liked to know you in real life!
"Whiskey was a gift of the gods--dangerous, like fire and all gifts from heaven--to be used by the strong man with pleasure for joy, to solace and stimulate the imagination, to clothe reality in rosy light, evoke elusive happiness. I had misused it as a stupefying poison, to deaden consciousness--as an escape."Don't expect a harrowing tale of violent withdrawal but a realistic account of hospitalization from a guy who drank a quart and a half of whiskey a day. Writing is occasionally brilliant and even mystic.
In one of the original stories in AA's "Big Book," the first female AA (I think...) talks about having read "Bill Seabrook's story" about getting "cured" of his alcoholism in an asylum. This book IS that story. It is an historically fascinating personal account of pre-AA treatment for alcoholics, and it also held a special fascination for me as a recovering alcoholic. Mr. Seabrook did not actually ever STOP drinking. His "cure" allowed him to drink sensibly and stop when he felt like it. Bbwwwaahahahah! I wonder if there's an "after-the-asylum" bio on him?
When taken as an anthropological study of a distinct culture or place in the vein of Margaret Meade this is a interesting and somewhat compelling read. There is very little narrative to speak of and drags on a bit, the book functions more as a travelogue through a mental institution and sobriety itself. The only major critique I have is the inclusion of the extended direct quoting of Philip, the piece starts off well enough but quickly degenerates into rather nonsensical blathering.
I thought the writing was awkward at times. It was a report, not a story. A report of a drunkard who goes to a mental hospital to take care of his drinking habit. It is a lot like One flew over the cuckoo's nest.He comes uncover the root cause of his drinking problem towards the end of the book but it was too neat, everything nicely tied up at the end. Life is never that neat.
Unique, interesting writing style, providing insight into a mental hospital and encounters with men experiencing psychiatric conditions. Also some interesting outlooks on alcohol use disorder. I had never heard of William Seabrook before, but after reading this book, I want to learn mor.
Couldn't make myself finish it. Love most asylum-books, but this one is just too detached, uneven.
Apparantly a very well-written memoir of an addict who commits himself to a mental institution.
My review plus a matching cocktail can be found on my blog.
