https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/15762561-the-weary-blues
In 1926 a twenty-four year old man of color wandered in to a white man's world and declared here are my words.His name was Langston Hughes.His first publication, The Weary Blues, was nothing less than badass, a compilation of poems that nodded respectfully both to Walt Whitman and the incomparable Carl Sandburg and.
however you feel about the negro, he existed before you, he will exist after you, and even when you pretend you can't see him crossing the street, he still remains:Proem (prologue + poem):I am a Negro:       Black as the night is black,       Black like the depths of my Africa.I’ve been a slave:       Caesar told me to keep his door-steps clean.
Wall's recent book "The Harlem Renaissance: A Very Short Introduction" (2016) inspired me to revisit the poetry of Langston Hughes.
The volume is even shorter that Wall's book that I read in the "Very Short Introductions" series."The Weary Blues" (1926) was Hughes' (1902 -- 1967) first published book of poetry and is the work of a young man of twenty-three.
The poems in the book speak of African American pride and experience but they are universal in scope as well.It was valuable to read this short collection of Hughes' first published poetry rather than an anthology.
Droning a drowsy syncopated tune,Rocking back and forth to a mellow croon, I heard a Negro play.Down on Lenox Avenue the other nightBy the pale dull pallor of an old gas light He did a lazy sway .
O Blues!In a deep song voice with a melancholy toneI heard that Negro sing, that old piano moan— “Ain’t got nobody in all this world, Ain’t got nobody but ma self.
Got the Weary Blues And can’t be satisfied— I ain’t happy no mo’ And I wish that I had died.”And far into the night he crooned that tune.The stars went out and so did the moon.The singer stopped playing and went to bedWhile the Weary Blues echoed through his head.He slept like a rock or a man that’s dead.
‘The Weary Blues’ is among the first works of Langston Hughes and is a benchmark in history of African-American poetic history.
It innovate the use of American blues in English poems, which serves as a landmark for various black musical artists; like, Sterling Brown, Yusef Komunyakaa, Michael S.
Blue music, which is considered a pure Negro work, unleashes a completely new dimension of the very exceptional black art and also reflects his early memories of Lawrence.
Using the blue rhymes and lyrics, the poem not only reminds of the singer’s disappointment, sorrow and lassitude, but also the callous resistance in Afro-American society.
Read complete poem analysis
Great collection of poems by Langston Hughes. A few of my favorites are: Ardella, Poem (To F.S.) and Epilogue. Read it and discover your favorites.
In honor of the book’s 90th anniversary, Knopf re-published the collection with its original cover art and introduction, plus a new introduction by poet Kevin Young.
It includes such familiar classics as the title poem, Dream Variation, Winter Moon, The Negro Speaks of Rivers, Suicide’s Note, The Dream Keeper, Danse Africaine, and Mother to Son. It is in this volume that Hughes would, as Young puts it, “first perfect that mix of hope with heartbreak.” It is here to that the music of early jazz, blues, and spirituals disrupts the ordinary ebb and flow of city life, life at sea, and of art with new rhythms, perspectives, and truths.
Highlights: The Negro Speaks of Rivers, The South, Poem (To the Black Beloved), Long Trip, Epilogue.

Sharp and poignant, one of the best poetry books I've ever read in my life. This is Langston at his best, maybe not always at his most vulnerable, but definitely at his sharpest. There's a focus or maybe a maturity I bid earlier writings that is arguably missing or just decreased in his later work. For me, this collection of poetry encapsulates the very best of him.
I'll never get tired of reading Hughes. Ever.
Not much is any better than Langston Hughes, poetry, and jazz.Thump, thump, thump, went his foot on the floor.
He played a few chords then he sang some more— “I got the Weary Blues And I can’t be satisfied.
The singer stopped playing and went to bed While the Weary Blues echoed through his head.
He slept like a rock or a man that’s dead.Hughes argues that jazz is everywhere, encompassing the blues and rock and roll.
To those who would deny the connections between musical traditions, Hughes states, “Jazz is a great big sea.
The “Mother to Son” poem is the most famous from this collection, and rightfully so.
But there are many gems here (after all, it is Langston Hughes).
“Epilogue” is similar to “Let America be America Again”, and just as heart wrenching.Some of them these could be written today, such as “Afraid” which is about alienation/isolation even though we live “among the skyscrapers”.Others are timeless and “Suicide’s Note” is stark and profound.
Asked me for a kiss.”My favorites aside from “Mother to Son” are “Ardella” (“I would liken you To a night without stars Were it not for your eyes.
I would liken you To a sleep without dreams Were it not for your songs”) and “Fantasy in Purple”.
The volume's original introduction, by the controversial white impresario of the Harlem Renaissance, Carl Van Vechten, emphasizes the poet's well-traveled life, ranging from his Missouri birthplace to Mexico, Italy, and West Africa.
As in the volume's most famous poem, "The Negro Speaks of Rivers," the point is to find a set of aesthetic coordinates outside of Northern Europe and its North American emanation, a civilization that is, as Hughes complains, "So hard, / So strong, / So cold," and which he elsewhere characterizes as a condition of being "Caged in the circus of civilization." Thus the rivers of which the Negro speaks—Euphrates, Congo, Nile, Mississipi—are the rivers along which civilizations of color have grown, however subjected to the brutalities of history.
I was first introduced to Langston Hughes in my third grade reader. Just one poem. The first "grown up" poem that ever spoke to my little, naive 8 year old self. He wrote it in his early twenties and it is in this beautifully musical book. He is still one of my favorite poets and my favorite writer of all types from Missouri. I wanted to quote one of the best parts of this collection but there is more than one best. I need to buy a copy of this book.
The whole book reminds me of an artist painting the black experience in those days with watercolor paint. It is warm and eloquent and it is brilliant. The closes modern poet now that I believe is similar is J.G. Finch. We need more real poets today like Langston Hughes. Great book. A classic.
Read this for class and really enjoyed it. The poems were deeply musical and exquisitely sad. Personally though, I had a little bit of trouble connecting with them. Not because they were poorly written or boring, but because thematically I could not relate most of the author's experiences to my life. Still, it was a beautiful read.
In his quintessentially American volume Langston Hughes - Half Walt Whitman, half Robert Johnson - Manages to capture the sights, sounds, sorrows, joys & frustration of Harlem between the wars while considering the unfairness, ugliness, and beauty of America and the world as a whole.
Read a book published between 1900 to 1950. Read for the BookRiot Read Harder Challenge 2017. This a powerful collection of poetry from Langston Hughes. Famous poems like I Too Am America are included.
My copy is a beaten first edition given by Langston Hughes to my great great great grandfather Alva W. Taylor who was his friend. It's signed with a little note and I treasure it. These poems are beautiful, read them.
Through struggles, there is still hope.
Wrenching, soaring, introspective, exquisite. My soul runs deep like the rivers.
A classic!
Man, do I love Langston Hughes!
Beautiful, lyrical poetry. Some of them I read several times. I'd love to take a poetry course that included his poems.
Beautiful.
There is a special feeling from reading poetry in a foreign language. Poetry uses very specific vocabulary and plays with sororities that are foreign to the reader.But, I was taken by the beauty of some of the poems in this book. Troubled Woman really moved me, Sea Calm is beautiful, Pierrot is touching. Langston Hughes brings you in his world through his poetry and you learn as much in his verses as you would in a documentary about his era.
The assertion Hughes is making though this poetry—his right to celebration and love, to walking in the night, to music, to taking joy from his life as a black man in America—is powerful and deeply relevant today.
Over and over again, these poems insist (this is the most apt word I can come up with) on celebrating, and specifically on celebrating the kind of joy that is unique to blackness.His skill as a poet is on full display here as well.
The mess of contradictory emotions and experiences makes the poems all the more relevant, all the more human.
I don't know much about poetry, and because there wasn't much diversity among the authors for the challenge, I decided to read Langston Hughes.
Like I said, I don't know much about poetry, but so many of the words in these poems moved me.
And it's striking (and sad) how many of the same words published in 1926 could still be written by a young Black man in today's day and age.
As I was reading, I came across this video on YouTube of Langston Hughes reciting "The Weary Blues" while accompanied by a jazz band.
Very nice--I wish I could hear all the poems performed this way.https://youtu.be/uM7HSOwJw20
Even considering that Langston Hughes had travelled widely, experienced much, and engaged with people of different cultures, lands, and outlooks by the time he was 24 when this, his inaugural poetry collection, was published, the maturity and confidence of the work is strikingly impressive. Sights, sounds, and feelings, passion combine to make The Weary Blues as powerful today as it was 90 years ago.
Probably enough has already been said about how brilliant and touching these poems are, so I'll just mention that I'm pretty surprised that the ones I dogeared were pretty sad ones in a work that has a generally even mix of uplifting and mournful works - "After Many Springs", "Poem (To F.S.)", and "Afraid". I did also mark "Dream Variation" as a wish I'd like for this summer, so there's that.
