https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/3173112-the-valley-of-the-giants
While the book starts in 1850, most of the plot is "present day" (roughly 1917-8) and focuses on the romance and rivalry of the second generation: Bryce Cardigan and Shirley Sumner (niece of Col. Pennington).With a book written by a local author (whose influence is still felt in the Bay Area, all the way out to Tracy) and a setting in an area I know and love, it was hard to just take the fiction as fiction.
It is reminiscent of course of the Avenue of the Giants which runs parallel with 101 in a stretch south of Eureka.Kyne's novel has been adapted for film four times: in 1919, in 1927, in 1938 and finally very loosely in 1952 as The Big Trees.
This is one of those rugged old manly man kinds of books, pitting a good, fair-playing capitalist against an underhanded one.
It's a pretty good yarn, albeit melodramatic, at times.
The characterization of women is predictably paternalistic (hey, its from a century ago, before suffrage).
Interestingly, however, the primary female character is unusually shrewd in a business sense in between her fits of swooning and peevishness over the manly man of her dreams.
This is escapist literature from a century ago, the kind of stuff my grandfather-in-law liked (although he turned me on to James Oliver Curwood, but this stuff is somewhat similar).
This is one of my favorite works of fiction. I like it because of the vivid descriptions of the American spirit, the beauty of the Pacific Northwest, the building of a business and life in the outdoors. There is something about Kyne's word choice and phrasing that I also like--there is a certain formality to his writing like others of this time period. It's a shame that Kyne employs certain stereotypes and other insensitive descriptions in his writing, which has probably hurt his popularity. But, if you can overlook the political incorrectness, it is a very enjoyable read.
Peter B. Kyne is my father-in-law's beloved author. I read this book so we could talk about it. I will read more of his books for the same reason. The book was a fast read. It was intereting to see the author's view of women and minorities. The story was perfect for the old movies system. I am happy to have read it.
The romance between Bryce and Shirley is different from those that I have seen in other books as it is subtle and complicated by their conflicting alliances to their family businesses.
However, the day I acquire the right I shall exercise it.” A strong, well rounded man, Bryce proves himself to be a thoroughly enjoyable character to read about.
The setting may seem like a minor thing that wouldn’t affect the story to some people, but without it the interactions between the characters and the businesses and the conflicts that arose wouldn’t have made much sense.
My edition the 1918 2nd edition. Interesting for an older book
