https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1058611.Legion_of_the_Damned
Now they've reissued them I thought I'd read it again.There seems to be a bit of confusion over how much of his books are autobiographical and how much "based on events" or just plain made up.
From what I can gather this is the most autobiographical of the lot though and the first one he wrote.An antiwar book that shows how he was brutalised and in turn found moments of humanity in the horror.
The horror and futility is balanced by a dark humour, and like most of this type of book a love for his comrades.
(As I read I could feel him almost peeing his pants in sheer terror!)The real magic of the book, however, is not in the depiction of the fighting or in the often amusing stories of Sven and his comrades behind the lines.
The real magic is in the slow, everyday, callous loss of humanity among Sven and his comrades.The most moving part for me is when Sven and his tank finally kill a particularly hard to kill Russian soldier.
And by 1944 it was only worse.I think that is the story that Sven wanted to tell with his books.
After 100 pages read from this book I've already said to myself that I DO not like this book, because it's to boring even though it's about WW2, which is my obsession.
But at some point, the main character, Sven, said that people think that war is someting wow, something romantic and they always expect great stories from it.
All in all, I loved the way he described the war and the unconsciousness of some people who thought they could win no matter what!It was a good book, and even if it's not real, or it's all lies or whatever all those people say about "Legion of the damned" I still love it!
It is a must read novel for as many people as possible, especially for the ones that did not participated in any war. Its purpose is to spoil the heroic vision regarding wars and to show that there is nothing good in such an action. Perhaps the human kind would avoid in the future such events if as many as possible people would read similar books. In this context it makes no sense to discuss anything about style or literary value. The book must have 5 star rating.My copy of this book is in Romanian.
There is much controversy on the Internet as to whether Sven Hassel's autobiographical books are true or fiction, whether he was what he claims to be - and whether he exists at all or is a fictional identity created by someone else!Well, it is obvious that the books cannot be taken at 100% face value.
However, taking into account that this, the first book was written 12 years before any of the others, and that it appears to cover his entire wartime experience, my impression to say that it is genuinely autobiographical (something that emphatically cannot be said for all later books!) The obvious inaccuracies may arise from a desire to protect the identities of those with which he served - it is notable that he only gives biographical details about the deceased.
-En realidad tampoco estuvo en casi ninguno de los escenarios que nos presenta, pero qué más da.-Género.
Primero sufrirá la dureza del Campo Disciplinario de Lengries , después tendrá que desactivar bombas durante su estancia en el Campo de Fagen, volverá a Lengries para trabajos forzados en sus minas y canteras y, finalmente, es destinado a servir una compañía disciplinaria desde la que, tras un duro periodo de instrucción, es trasladado formar parte de un escuadrón en el que, a pesar de la dureza de la guerra, las cosas no son cómo Sven está acostumbrado a que sean y que será desplegado en el Frente Oriental.¿Quiere saber más de este libro, sin spoilers?
The guy clearly hated the SS, in fact he recounts with relish the number of times on the Eastern Front that the German army and Russians would stop shooting at each other for a while in order to shoot up SS units that had just arrived on the line, before continuing to shoot at each other.As a novel it didn't quite work, too much jumping around, and the narrative structure itself is weak.
I have read this book about 4 times, at large time intervals, and it still has the same powerful impression on me. I admire the story itself beacuse of it's cruelty to the reader, who is spared of nothing.. I think it's an amazing window through which we can see one small, really really small part of the suffering that went back way back during the World Wars..
I am aware of the controversy that swirls around the author but if even half of this stuff is true (and maybe only half is) it is still mighty disturbing. Despite brief interludes of fleeting happiness, the book is a relentless cascade of brutality: "Such atrocities had a stupefying effect on one. For a long time I went about in a state of queer, dull resignation and was on the point of being infected by my companions' belief that we were all doomed and that nothing mattered at all, since all men were evil and sinister without exception."
Sven Hassell's first book has a much more autobiographical feel to it. It pulls no punches, telling of life in the Wehrmacht's Penal regiments. At times brutal, at times sensitive, even funny. When there are masses of war stories about the winning side, this is an excellent book for redressing that balance.
O carte ce prezinta viața de coșmar al unui soldat neamț trecut prin lagăre, dezertări, explozii, prietenii și iubiri puternice. A fost interesant să văd războiul și prin ochii unui soldat neamț, nu doar din perspectiva prizonierilor evrei. Dacă îți plac cărțile de război, merită citită.
A shocker novel about the atrocities of war very well illustrated by Hassel especially on Germany's Russian campaign. This read gave me much desire to read other of his writings.
Mrs Mapp, on clocking me reading this, exclaimed "What are you doing reading Sven Hassel?
I was 13 when I read this.For a generation of people brought up in the 70s and 80s, Sven Hassel books were de-rigour.
When I cannot remember a book read last year, the characters just lept off the page.
Future books concentrate on particular events but by the end of this, we have followed Sven through WWII and we know what happens to the main characters in the end.Strong anti-war message and a nice balance between the violence and insanity of war and the little acts of camaraderie and fun that can only happen between people living in extraordinary times.Justified in my adolescent selection.
Un razboi vazut din perspectiva bravului soldat care lupta chiar si atunci cand nu mai stie pentru ce lupta.
Sincer si modest, romanul se parcurge usor si pe alocuri te amuza teribil mai ales prin personajul Joseph Porta, si pisica adoptata si numita Stalin, pisica purtata pe meleagurile razboiului si atat de invatata cu transeele si betiile de dupa.
Singurul motiv pentru care nu am oferit 5 stele, este faptul ca subiectele sunt uneori tratate usor superficial, lasand lucrurile in aer, desi se simte ca nu e vorba de lipsa vocabularului scriitorului, ci mai degraba pura evitare a dramei si a starilor intense.
The first chapters of this book, when Sven is in the concentration camp, are relentless and harrowing, and are reportedly based on the writer's own experiences.These beginning chapters get a full 5 stars from me, and a recommendation to absolutely everyone.So much time has passed now since World War II that we kind of forget just how much of an affront to humanity that these concentration camps were (and still are).Sven and his fellow prisoners put through their paces, kept constantly on the move with very little time to sleep.
The brilliant beginning gets 5.
Partiendo de un relato más o menos autobiográfico el autor nos va narrando sus terribles experiencias en la II Guerra Mundial, tanto detrás de las líneas como en el frente de batalla en Rusia.
Todo el horror, toda la pesadilla que se llevó por delante las vidas de millones de personas, militares y civiles, se nos expone aquí con el conocimiento que da haberlo vivido de primera mano.Y sin embargo no se hace pesado ni aburrido porque Hassel sabe hacer entretenido su narración y al cabo, entre tanto drama también se construye un relato entretenido con emoción, con amistad e incluso con momentos de humor, provocados sobre todo por las absurdas situaciones que se producen en la guerra.Recomendable.
This surprised me a little.
Having seen the lurid covers, I was expecting a Hassel book to be cartoon tales of battle and Jerry derring do.
Was pleasantly surprised to find a thoughtful, more measured approach lurking beneath the whole artifice.
There was action and battle, but only as background, the vast majority of the novel deals with the sadness and madness of war.
Sections reminded me of an updated All Quiet On The Western Front, the German as an unwilling sad part of a huge grinding machine of war.

"¿Qué puede hacer un regimiento disciplinario contra sesenta o setenta millones de cotorras que no ven nada, porque no quieren verlo?" frase que resume el libro que describe las locuras vividas por unos soldados alemanes que no creen en el ideario de la raza superior y que acaban convirtiéndose en una familia que trata de sobrevivir y donde de seis mil en 1941 tan solo sobreviven "3".
Los protagonistas de ficción se prometen escribir un libro para contar a las generaciones futuras las locuras de la guerra que los noticiarios y la prensa no muestran...
y se podría decir que este libro muestra con un toque de humor ácido.
Sven Hassell wrote a series of mostly fictionalized WWII novels which we would describe as "pulp fiction", from the point of view of cynical, fatalistic German soldiers trapped in the machinery of Hitler's war machine.. This was supposedly his most autobiographical book.. Regardless of the veracity of his writings - which have been hotly contested - (entire series has sales in excess of 50 million), it can't be denied they are ultimately anti-war books.. I find them a guilty good read..
A guilty pleasure - my dad had these books on this shelf for years and I'd peek at them, for some reason they seemed forbidden.They are a fun read, a kind of WW2 pulp fiction, all from the perspective of a German penal unit. Wild, realistic most the time, and oddly poignant for such a tale.
This book is a must to better understand the complexities of the war. And World War II is unlike any other war in the history of humanity.Who is an enemy and who is a friend? Who is right and who is wrong? Sven Hassel shows that the line is so thin that at times it just can't be seen.
In each of his books Sven Hassel shows episode from World War II. This is about fights in Russia. He showed brutality of war with dark humour. Great antiwar book.
Trivial and shallow - not recommended at all, unless you are a stereotypical 15 year old kid with no knowledge of WW2.
Filthy Deserter Description of Sven's court martial for desertion.
2. They Died By Day, They Died By Night Long description of Lengries Concentration Camp and reasons for telling story (some serious philosophy here!) Prison food.
Sven is pardoned and sent to serve in a penal regiment.
4. One Hundred And Thirty-Five Corpses Description of penal battalion drill and training.
Sven and Porta meet in the sea.
More about the chaplain and his fate at the hands of Sven and Porta.
Death of Stege - two versions of his death given by the Old Un. Sven leaves hospital to return to unit.
Il risultato è poco convincente, poco verosimile, persino un pò affettato nelle numerose riflessioni antimilitariste sparse un pò ovunque nel libro: il paragone con la straordinaria arringa finale de E Johnny prese il fucile, che a me è subito venuta in mente, è impietoso per profondità, raffinatezza, spontaneità.Un racconto di svago, con numerosi spunti di riflessione e altrettanti argomenti per rimanere perplessi: la natura delle peripezie del protagonista e dei suoi compagni di guerra al limite del credibile per prima cosa e, più grave, un goffo tentativo di individuare i buoni, nonostante tutto - i soldati, della Wermacht come dell'Armata Rossa - e separarli nettamente dai cattivi - le SS e l'NKVD.
Arrivando a scrivere addirittura di una strisciante minaccia militare dei soldati tedeschi nei confronti dei camerati di Himmler: cosa storicamente totalmente infondata, dato che l'esercito spalleggiò sempre (e in numerosi casi eseguì materialmente) le nefandezze delle SS.
Rauw,Hard en humor vertelde me iemand en dat is precies de juiste omschrijving. De stijl is voor mij precies zoals een oorlogsboek moet zijn spannend meeslepend en ook verslavend. Hij is dus ook in een paar avonden uit omdat ik hem niet kan wegleggen als je van oorlogsverhalen houd is dit meer dan een aanrader .....een Topper !!!
This book shows the true, stupid face of totalitarianism and the terrible price that has to be paid by the warriors...sad but excellent!
La espontaneidad de cada uno de estos hombres es impresionante, igualmente pude sentir lastima por cada persona que fue afectada a raíz de la guerra.Algo que pude notar fue la narrativa del autor, siento que se trata de un libro muy fresco, al empezarlo tenía la idea de que la narrativa sería un poco más completa pero no fue el caso, quien no sepa su fecha original fácilmente puede decir que se trata de un libro escrito no más de diez años.
Jsem zvyklá na Hasselům ironickým přístup, na to, že se občas zasměji, i když se to při čtení válečného románu považuje za nevhodné, ale v této knize se mi zdá, že autor vlastně ještě pořádně nevěděl, co psát.
(Mimochodem, v této knize je také mnohem více pohledu první osoby než v jiných.) A také mě neskutečně mrzí a bolí ten konec - ke smrti některých postav se člověk nechce dočíst tak rychle.
A on to na něj autor vyvalí hned v první knize série - ale co, život není fér, že ano.
And the editor did not make a good job on blending all these things into something more organic.
The actions depicted offer enough information for a reader to form his own opinion on the matter of war.
They do their job well in that manner.
I was secretly always on your side." riiiiiiight) or the needs of the book("Well, I'm almost at the end of the story and I totally forgot to add some action.
Better take care of it now.").All in all, it is an enjoyable book, easy to read, manages to represent a lot of the various aspects of war, but I would not go as far as consider it autobiographical.
Hassel skilfully treats many aspects of life in those dark times: tank warfare, concentration camps, love, women, comradeship, officers.Now I know I'll read the remaining 12 books too.
I can take the feverish intensity and nightmare images only because everything Hassel describes happened to real people, day in and day out for 6 years.
And I know they still happen to this very day: if you can read without blanching descriptions of how North Korea treats victims in its secret camps, you have a stronger stomach than me.Actually there is another reason I can read these books, even with great enjoyment: as I said the books are readable in the highest degree.
At first as i started to read this i did not know it was an autobiography, the book started out good, but when it hit dialogue heavy "romantic" parts, to call it boring would be being kind.
So do not see the boring parts of the book as just that as i did at first, see them more as food for his soul, what he needed to let the world still have meaning to him.
Comparing the stories reveals so many similarities in the emotional state of the fighters that it is safe to say that even if Sven Hassel is recounting tales of others, it is done very well.
I personally do believe that Sven Hassel did really experience most of the Accounts himself.
Un doloroso ritratto biografico della Seconda Guerra Mondiale vissuta dal soldato Sven Hassel, assieme ai suoi compagni.
Magistrale narrazione dell'inferno della guerra, evento che distrugge persone e cose, cuore e anima di tutti i popoli.
Preferisco non aggiungere altro, ma solo alcune frasi dello stesso autore sulla guerra: " Preferirei poter essere umano.
Preferirei poter dire di non nutrire nessun istinto sanguinario; ma ancora oggi vedo rosso quando penso, o peggio incontro, coloro che incitano alla guerra, tutti quegli idioti che apertamente, o con infide insinuazioni, spingono ai conflitti i popoli e coltivano gli istinti bellicosi dei singoli individui.
The Sven Hassel books were very popular in Britain in the early '70s.
I assumed these books would be all violence and derring-do.
While there is quite a bit of that, there is also much humour (some of it almost Wodehousian) and serious, sometimes disturbing descriptions of life and warfare under the Nazi regime.
All I can say is that in this book at least I got the distinct impression that when reality didn't meet the needs of drama, Hassel never felt any compunction about adding whatever was necessary to move the story along.
Ultimately it felt a bit like the World War 2 exploits of Flashman.
Initial illusions proved wrong: Upon starting this book, I thought the translation from 1950s German to English seemed a bit wooden, but after 70 pages I was really involved.
Sven also has a great sense of humour.
Before starting this book, I didn't know if would resonate with me as well as it did with the millions of readers who came two generations before me (nor were the 1980s covers I saw growing up appealing to me).
I was wrong again, in the best possible way.
I wish I didn't wait so long to begin reading Sven Hassel.
Una forma muy original de ver la guerra desde el bando alemán donde uno es consciente en el gran núm
"- Nu har du hamnat i människohänder, ditt jävla svin, och vi släpper dig inte.När vi var färdiga med honom, jagade vi honom över till ryssarna och sköt honom i båda benen, innan han hade hunnit två tredjedelar av vägen.
Vi höll upp med skjutandet, tills de hade fått honom med sig.- Jag vet inte, hur det är med dig, sa Porta och torkade svetten ut ansiktet, men jag känner mig som en ny och bättre människa.""Vi vet ju allesammans, att vi åker rätt åt helvete, och det har vi vetat hela tiden.
Lika blinda och maktgalna och avtrubbade?
Standard Sven Hassel level.
Personally I think he has written better novels after this one.
But basically they are all the same.
If you like WWII books, these will give a slighly different view on German War Machine.
Dirty, violent, mutinous and non-ideological.
The Finnish "jubilee edition" I read includes actually two novels and a pictorial supplement on Hassel's war time photographs.
I don't know who had written the texts for the pictures but his/her expertise on WWII tanks has been quite modest.
I trust that Hassel himself knew a lot better being a Panzer Krieger.
This is the first of Danish writer Sven Hassel's many novels surrounding a penal battalion during WWII.
We are introduced to many characters that Sven Hassel said are real.
Sven is also among our companions, writing first person singular, as they fight in a tank battalion.
This particular book spring boarded Sven Hassel into a genre of writing where by his latter stories, although made up from real events, can't always had been true.
However, our characters from this story are brought back to life for adventures in future stories in various conflicts during the second world war.
But despite that, I found I quite liked it, even as someone who finds blood and thunder books and films a bit dull.The narrative spans the entire Second World War, and documents the exploits of a penal regiment, with the protagonist Sven sent to prison camp for political reasons.
They weren't all gallant heroes, but people who didn't have much of a choice, with plenty of evidence that standing up for your beliefs merely saw you killed.I'm not sure I'll be rushing to read Hassel's 14 other books as war stories aren't really my thing, but it was definitely better than expected and not as awful as made out on subsequent search results.
Retumbar de botas claveteadas en el cemento del patio, con producción de chispas fugaces. Cuarto de vuelta al salir del cuartel e inicio de la marcha por el camino empapado, bordeado de álamos. En un batallón disciplinario, las conversaciones y las canciones están, naturalmente, prohibidas; individuos de cuarta categoría no pueden aspirar a los privilegios del soldado alemán.  Como tampoco teníamos derecho a llevar el águila o los otros símbolos de honor: sólo llevábamos, en la manga derecha, u
Cuarto de vuelta al salir del cuartel e inicio de la marcha por el camino empapado, bordeado de álamos.
Como tampoco teníamos derecho a llevar el águila o los otros símbolos de honor: sólo llevábamos, en la manga derecha, una cinta blanca —¡y que siempre debía permanecer blanca!— cruzada por la palabra SONDERABTEILUNG en letras negras.
Como debíamos ser los mejores soldados del mundo, todas nuestras marchas eran marchas forzadas.
En menos de un cuarto de hora estábamos cubiertos de sudor, nuestros pies empezaban a calentarse y abríamos la boca para poder respirar, pues la nariz por sí sola resultaba rápidamente incapaz de suministrarnos una cantidad de oxígeno suficiente.
This book, "The Legion of the Damned," is his first of many books, written after the war ended while he spent four years as a POW in Russian prisons.Although it is written as a narrative of his actions in combat during WWII, in reality, the stories told in his books are composites of the actions seen by many soldiers of his time.
Such were the horrendous casualties the Germans suffered in WWII.What's most interesting is the camaraderie between soldiers that I recognized from my own military experience.
Novela bélica ambientada en la segunda guerra mundial que nos narra la crueldad de la guerra desde el punto de vista de un soldado alemán, cansado ya de todo aquello. Amistad, humor amargo, crueldad... Todo se entrelaza armónicamente para dar lugar a un libro de fácil lectura cuyos protagonistas no pasan desapercibidos, compartiendo todos ellos una idea antibelicista común.Uno de los pocos libros que he vuelto a leer con el paso del tiempo y me sigue gustando tanto como el primer día.
