https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/145562.Cunningham_s_Encyclopedia_of_Magical_Herbs
i love this book - i wander around the yard with it - i practically read it to my plants.
mint is no longer mint - it's a plant at the end of driveway keeping out evil spirits and promoting good neighbor relations.
i don't really believe in evil spirits but since all the neighbors stop to rub and sniff the plant and also say hello, i cannot argue with this book!
it's also amusing to think of ones grandmother wandering around town with a potato in her purse trying not to catch a cold.
The folk names and the suchlike were interesting, the illustrations are inspireing the books subject matter is nonsense. yes I do respect other peoples beliefs, but I have had access to books over three hundred years old and I can only say the magic from this book (if it's to be believed)is from the Sooty and Sweep school of "izzy wizzy lets get bizzy" magic.
i’ve been using this book as a reference for all my medicinal herbs to align known medicinal properties with spiritual and energetic properties.
i have a couple different books in this vein and this one i trust the most.
it’s simply organized (it’s an encyclopedia, so it’s all alphabetical, by common name, not by latin names) and has some useful appendix tables in the back.EDIT: i lowered my rating to a 4, 3.5 more like it.
while it is exactly what it says it is, an encyclopedia for reference, this book leaves me wanting.
The index allows you to look up herbs by the proper name, Folk name or Latin name.
For each herb you will find the related Gender, Planet, Element, Deities, Powers as well as magical and ritual uses.
While this book is great as a quick reference book, it will not tell you why a plant is related to a specific planet or deity.
The illustrations leave a little something to be desired, if you are looking for a tool to help you identify different herbs, this may not be your best option.
I have to say, this is one of the books on my shelf that is filled with post it notes and book marks..
I use it a LOT and you can really tell as I'm soon going to have to order another copy!
It's been tremendously handy when I've been making incense and herbal kits as there's just so much to draw from.It's a fabulous go to book for just starting out as well as seasoned practitioners who work with herbs as it's filled with helpful information.
There's quite a lot you can sink your teeth into.It's one of those books that I'd recommend as a "must have" in your library.
This is one of my two absolute favorite books on the magical use of herbs.
It is fun and easy to use, and I highly recommend it for anyone interested in undertaking the practice of Wicca or modern Witchcraft.
Scott Cunningham was a wonderful, light hearted, positive Light Being (I knew him personally), and everyone I know who uses this book loves it.
There has been some criticism that everything in it is not based in perfect scholarship.
This book has been in active use by practitioners for over 30 years.
Based on that, it stands on its own.
I've realized that my expectations for what I want n an herbal, and what is actually out there, are two completely different things. Yet Cunningham's Encyclopedia has more of what I would want, with some folk history of the different herbs. I don't like that everything is structured into the generic Greek 4 element model, but you get that with Wicca and ceremonialism. As a supplemental reference book, I feel it does pretty well, and it did spark my interest into herbalism.
This is an encyclopedia about herbs. Cunningham includes folklore, edibility, and ways these plants can be prepared. Symbols are included in each profile to signify for medical use or for spells. The reader should use their common sense. Out of all Cunningham's books I see this one as the most important. I use this book as a reference any time I am making gris-gris bags, tea, or gardening.
You don't really "read" or "finish" this book because it's more of a look-up-what-you-need encyclopedic book, but it's very clear and concise and informative. Highly recommended for anyone who wants a down-to-earth magical herbal guide--interesting for folklore buffs as well as Crafters, ya know?
This is a must-have for every herbalist's shelf. Cunningham's work is accessible, well-written, and easy to follow, one of the better Herb guides on the market today for magical and health uses.
The 1-5 Star Review is the total of what I have to say about this book, specifically.Caveat: This review is historical/archival in nature.
Additionally, I worked for a company in this field, 2015-2016, and had to read an ocean of this stuff to do my job.Like televangelists, and snake-oil salesman, these publishers prey on the vulnerable.
To quote Holden from Chasing Amy, "Over- or underweight [people] who don't get laid - they're our bread and butter."Though a copypasta of it, these books never tell you about hermeticism.
Having worked in this field, including sales of these exact books, I can tell you...
It Gives you the name of the herb with a line drawing of it it's folk names gender planet element and powers, as well as it's magical uses.I'd recommend the book to anyone with an interest in herbs whether it be magical or not as it gives some fascinating information about the plants and their folk history.
If your interest in them is magical then it's also very good as a reference book and has chapter on the powers of herbs and how to perform magic with them which is easy to understand, it explains how to charge herbs before using them in spells amongst other things.I use this book quite regularly in my work and think it would give a valuable contribution to any pagan library.
Eye of newt, and toe of frog, Wool of bat, and tongue of dog, Adder's fork, and blind-worm's sting…did you know that herbs are magical things?
Many herbs throughout history have been named some spooky things, but they have been found to help and heal.
Folklore associated with these herbs led to the belief that some plants were magical.
Scott Cunningham’s Encyclopedia of Magical Herbs has sold over 400,000 copies.
With over 400 herbs, flowers, and plants listed, along with their astrological and magical uses, this book will be adored by those who practice natural magic.
First let me explain why exactly I bought this book.
It includes chapters on the powers and intentions of herbs as well as specific spells to use.
Then it breaks down each herb with its common, scientific and folk names, gender, planet, element, associated deities, powers, and ritual and magical uses.
It's the perfect handbook for gardeners, magic practitioners, and the odd writer who's interested - like me!
I do wish the illustrations were in color and that it included medicinal uses for each herb too.
I guess I will have to get a second book for that.
This may very well be a book I buy.
His introduction is really spot-on and I love that he leaves in some of the less practical rituals to "spark the imagination." My only real issues with this volume are (a) his use of gender in dealing with the properties of the plants (of course, this could easily be ignored by a practitioner that doesn't cotton to such essentialism), and (b) the book's selection of plants is a little dated/Eurocentric for today's practitioner, as many Ayurvedic and TCM herbs are in wider circulation now.
This book could use a little facelift, but it is still a practical guide for anyone interested in magical herbalism.
I had this book for years but, unfortunately, didn't actually much use of it. It seems like it should be a great reference; it's packed with descriptions of various plants, their correspondences, and some of their properties. But this is very much a magical reference text, not an academic or medical-style herbal. If you're trying to figure out which herb to use for spellwork, this may be the book for you. If you're trying to figure out which herb to take for your headache, have a cup of mint tea and read something else!
If you're wondering about which magical herbal book to pickup (As there are many! and not all are created equal haha) ...Although it's nice to have more sources to pull from in any realm of knowledge...I can honestly say I don't personally bother with any other book then this one when I'm needing this information. An absolute MUST have if your interested in learning more in this area, I promise you will return to it again and again.
This is my herbal bible! My current copy is starting to fall apart by the binding from over use, the plastic on the cover is coming away from the paper, the pages are well loved...A lot of people think Cunningham is too simple, that he's a 'good place to start', but why overcomplicate things when they're so effective to begin with? I would definitely recommend this book to anyone who wants more info on magical herbs.
A MUST have in any herbalist, magical, naturalist library. Contains pictures along side the herb, folk names, gender, planet, element, powers, and magical uses. Also has cross reference names in the back to help the person searching.I love this book and find it helpful when looking to make a mix or when I have a celebration.
I love this book. I had it years ago in paperback and constantly used it. In a move it was left to one of my children. I have since bought it on my kindle because I missed it so much. I think I prefer the print version better though, ( for the drawings of the herbs). I am putting no date finished on it as I use it all the time. I do not think I will ever officially "finish" this book.
The quintessential herbal book for magickal purposes, if you can only have one, make it this one. most modern witchcraft books are based in whole or part on the works of Scott Cunningham.This book has excellent appendixes and cross references, as well as offering both multiple common names, pictures, and the Latin taxonomy, uses, planetary correspondences, etc.
The books by Scott Cunningham are truly informative for any practitioner of Paganism or the Wiccan paths, whether you be a solitary or coven practioner. Personally I am a solitary who reads all the Neo-pagan books of knowledge concerning herbs, practices, incense and oils, history, etc... I can get my hands on. to truly understand the path one must research and practice, Blessed Be.
Very useful and well written. Really enjoyed reading it. Definitely recommend it to anyone new to witchcraft, Wicca or Pagan traditions. Scott Cunningham is a good go to for beginners and seasoned witches alike. Check out his whole spread.
I really enjoyed flipping through this book because it gives a detailed book on herbs. If your are interested in not the herbs but their meanings, history and magical properties then this book is for you. Scott Cunningham did a wonderful job with the details of this book.
will be extremely useful in my coming ventures into root work and herbal spirituality! recommended by juan, of course.
Informative for all of your Witchy needs.
A must have for anyone interested in plants and nature. Soooo much good information.
This is a pretty amazing resource for those who want to know how herbs and plants work in our bodies and how they have been used over time.
Wonderful reference book for my Ovate studies.
This is the most detailed description of the the uses of magickal herbs I've ever seen, on the internet or anywhere. I'm so glad I found this invaluable resource at a used book sale! If you are just interested in folk magic or anything more, this is a definitive guide to herbs.
