https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/8320645-the-outward-room
In bad cinematic, the protagonist's friend (or uncle/girlfriend/karate instructor) knows people in organized crime, what they call it, who come as a deus ex machina to the protagonist's rescue.
It touched the room with pale rays hardly strong enough for the shadow.John cries, and she remembers:Once when she had been a child, she had seen her father cry.
She could see the shadows of the bedroom, the blue squares on the quilt of the bed -- she was looking into the room again as though she were again a child.Part of me wants to start at the very beginning again, this time looking more sharply for the symbols.
Another thought provoking read from the New York Review Books Classic list.
This a beautifully delivered, simple and yet poignant story set against the backdrop of the Depression in New York.The story of Harriet her battle with Mental Illness and the relationship she finds with John, a factory worker who takes her in.
This gentle story is about the highs and lows of everyday life and finding joy and healing in simple pleasures.
It's also a tale of self discovery and healing for Harriet, who is stronger than she first thought.
It's an unusual story, quiet and unassuming but so well worth the read.
The four page description of spending a night homeless on the New York subway c.1935 is worth the price of admission alone. It dramatically changed my perception and appreciation of the novel and fills all that comes afterwards with so much more weight.
Initially I had doubts, though, that a sane man could write a truly convincing book from the perspective of a female psychiatric patient.
"The Outward Room" is the farthest thing from a sensationalist fantasy; rather, Brand creates a wholly believable little world, populating it with a cast of non-professional actors, each of whom is gradually revealed to have a pulsating inner life: the gruff neighbor Rocco and his pet dog who won't stop barking, the wistful neighbor girl Mary, the thwarted co-worker Anna, etc.The fact that the mental hospitals described in early-twentieth-century novels bear a more-than-casual resemblance to modern psychiatric facilities used to unsettle me, but I'm getting used to it now.

Madness. Wholeness. Healing through the tiny details of a life lived among others who care for us, and the terrible fragility we all navigate. This is a classic. So much larger than can be contained within its pages. THE OUTWARD ROOM is the best kind of philosophical book: one rooted in story, in character, and one in which the word 'philosophical' never appears, and yet it asks all the important questions, and does so brilliantly, in a mere 230 pages. Reward yourself. Read this book.
Forced to sell her only possession—a ring given to her by her brother—she manages for a few more days until a chance meeting with John, a young man who works a lathe in a machine shop.Eventually John and Harriet become lovers and John asks her to marry him; but Harriet holds back, confessing to John only that she is insane but not the reason for her insanity.Throughout The Outward Room Harriet battles bouts of great depression, convinced that her end is near.
I loved being in 1930s New York--the dark apartments with their soggy stairs; the courtyards filled with Italian children; the sweatshop the narrator briefly works in, cutting the threads off beautiful dresses.
I enjoyed the realism of the story, and I found Harriet's child-like way with the world--after being in the hospital for so long--quite riveting, and surprising each time it came up.I didn't, however, like the more associative, stream of consciousness writing that was braided into the straightforward story.
I was glad for the drama of the story, and the quiet beauty of Harriet and John's love, which felt real and tender and delicious to me, and so of the era, and yet timeless, too.
Harriet is in a locked ward of an asylum since she had a nervous breakdown five years ago when her brother died in an accident.
Her days are fenced in by the hospital routine, visits with her doctor, and interactions with other patients on the ward.
Impulsively, she escapes and makes her way to New York.The novel is about her return to life and how her heart opens with her return to the world.
It’s not an unrealistic miracle cure; it does feel real, though against the odds.
It’s also a vivid picture of New York life in the depths of the Depression, which would depress anybody.
That I was expecting something depressingly awful to happen at any moment just shows how sensationalistic and overly dramatic most fiction is and how well it has shaped our expectations--and how removed from the lived daily life most of us lead. This novel has a quiet, understated decency, depicting the lives of a couple--particularly the woman--eking out a living during the Depression. Think William Maxwell, and you're on the right track. (Maxwell was also a contemporary of Brand's, but unlike Maxwell, Brand has only one book in print--this one, after decades of being unavailable.)

When comparing the two stories, it’s easy to note the similarities between Brand’s 1937 novel and the 1961 film: a girl who experiences a shocking tragedy suffers from a nervous breakdown; she later runs away lost and alone, and in a moment of utter despair is “saved” by a mechanic who takes her in despite not immediately knowing what had happened to her.
Brand’s novel is a sad, speculative tale that immediately engages the reader.
The ending might feel abrupt to some readers; however I think it’s fitting.
The abruptness provides the reader with a tangible sense of Harriet’s moment of catharsis.
Somehow the idea of an asylum escapee trying to make it in The Big City is a lot more appealing than some rosy cheeked Career Girl trying to make a go of it. "The Outward Room" is all that and more, the literary equivalent to a sad Edward Hopper painting, i.e. "Automat" with the lonely girl in the cloche hat sitting all by herself in the diner, or his studies of the girl in night gown all by herself in her desolate afternoon tenement bedroom. Brand writes with a feminine touch, making the subject matter a lot easier to take.
The NYRB continue to shock me and keep me in a constant state of awe. Millen Brand's outstanding The Outward Room asks of you nothing more than to reach inside your hearts and realize that no one is alone and each of us can find that something that excites us. Brand does an amazing job of putting us inside the mind of Harriet who is self proclaimed as insane. That and the incredibly vivid views of depression era New York City makes this one of the best that NYRB offers.
This book has been sitting on my shelf for far too long, and I'm glad I finally read it. I confess, I loved this book before the entrance of John. After that, I still enjoyed it, but not as much as I had been. I wanted to see Harriet continuing to make her way alone. But perhaps she was not capable of that. I've missed books like this. (I think what I mean by that is lyrical prose?) I need to find more...
I love when a book can be this plain and this quiet while still being highly emotionally evocative. It's masterful really. The book doesn't ride only off the emotional force tied to the underlying subject matter, though that is there. It doesn't pull cheap tricks either. The words are just set out there, plain. Somehow that all explodes inside the reader when the eyes run across those words. It might not be one of my most favorite books, but I was highly impressed.
A beautiful, quiet, reflective novel that holds up moments in a chain, linking the heroine's incarceration in an institution to a path to life, and love, outside. This could have been even better were there not so many odd stream-of-consciousness diversions from the beautiful descriptions, but as it stands it's pretty damn good anyway.
Beautiful love story! Refusing to let mental illness take over her life, I admired Harriet for this. 4 stars
Thanks to Daniel@Boswell Books for the recommend. He recommends "Skippy Dies" in the same newsletter (and I so want to read that) that I know he has great taste!
I found this NYRB title on a Park Slope brownstone stoop - one of the things I miss about my old neighbourhood, where even walking up a block or two meant going through book offerings left for passers by; once I found a signed, crisp first edition of Tim O’Brien’s The Things They Carried – sorrysorry, yes. The Outward Room.  Millard Brand’s depiction of Manhattan life during the Depression is reminiscent of an Edward Hopper painting, a New York snapshot at once dated and familiar. The opening, h
The scenes are necessary for the story to come, but it’s when Harriet re-enters the all too real world that the novel becomes something substantive and memorable.
Her search for a cheap furnished room and the hostile rebuff she receives from one building to the next reads like a passage out of The Grapes of Wrath, the meanness of poverty lifting off the page as Harriet is refused and then ignored, doors shut in her face.
Millard Brand's apt title was inspired by John Donne’s The Second Anniversary:“Forget this rotten world, and unto theeLet thine own times as an old story be ….
Think then, my soul, that death is but a groom,Which brings a taper to the outward room"
This book was surprisingly good. It was mostly very well written and evocative of the time and places depicted. I couldn’t put it down because it was very engrossing, despite being a story about quiet daily life for the most part. This book also depicts PTSD flashbacks and sensory overwhelm in a highly convincing and sympathetic manner.
this isn't a holiday read. I was glad to get to the end and start something which was more of a page turner. but it has stayed with me. Harriet is so innocent, like she has no skin, and so her experience of falling in love is very touching. it reminded me sometimes of Virginia Woolf, the streams of consciousness approach. recommended, but not for the beach.
I loved this book and its focus on redemption. The sense of old New York and the struggles the poor endured during the recession are beautiful. The protagonist is multidimensional and real and the other characters are interesting and nuanced. The writing is magical. I wish the author had written more.
Wonderful
Reading this book was a little bit like dreaming.
Things didn't feel quite real most of the time, or at least felt like they were coming to me from a distance, or through a couple of layers of gauze.
I liked it, and readers who really appreciate that kind of mood when they're reading won't want to miss it, but for me, I need a little action.
Despite the setting of an unfamiliar city in the midst of the Depression, Harriet encounters few real obstacles, and a great number of kind and friendly helpers.
Brand's style encouraged me to care deeply about the characters' plights - without barraging me with the thick descriptions that would make me feel it were all being shoved down my throat.In some respects, though, this novel is a real curate's egg.
It operates using a stream of consciousness that feels clunky when set against the attempts of (later) writers.
As this unfolds, so too does the beauty and enjoyability of this largely now-forgotten novel.As Peter Cameron points out in his brilliant afterward, a book of this quality simply does not deserve to be forgotten.

Watching the development and transitions that the main character goes through over the course of the year the novel takes place is fascinating -- and it was this aspect that got a 4 star rating.
I have to admit that the writing style was hard for me at the beginning...to the point that I didn't know if I was going to make it through the book.
However, the last little bit of the book, when the story slowed way down again and my attention went from the plot and characters back to the writing, I struggled again.
What an odd little book this is.
It the story of Harriet, a woman who suffers a nervous breakdown after the death of her brother.
Making her way to Manhattan, she barely scrapes by until she meets John, a machinist who takes her in.
They fall in love and live as husband and wife.
All of this takes place during the depths of the Great Depression, so their existence, as well as that everyone they know, is tenuous.
Homelessness and death seem to loom in the background of the entire story.
Brand's style is choppy and odd, like half-formed Hemingway.
Millen Brand brings alive a long ago New York as the setting for the story of a young woman's regeneration.
The main character escapes from a mental hospital where she has spent seven years of her young adulthood.
She finds the will to live through the struggle of life during Depression-era New York and the comforts of carnal love.
This is a quiet book, not much is said by the character, who calls herself Harriet, but much is observed in careful detail.
Although sometimes as bleak as the time and circumstances it describes, the book tugs the reader through to the finish.
