https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/47626.Shade_s_Children
Yes. I'm reviewing a YA book.
Garth Nix has never, ever done this.This is a man of astounding imagination.
Is everything conceptually fully realized?
Hell yes.
I won't rehash plot or details and I fully encourage the reader to approach this one with as little information as possible to get the full experience since this is a journey of discovery, of putting the pieces together as the characters do.It's tense, it's stomach churning, it's immersive, it's tragic and triumphant.I don't know why this man isn't more famous.
The night he was close to capture, he was rescued by a group of three, Drum, Ella and Ninde and taken back to their refuge – an old, abandoned submarine where Shade ruled, and small groups of children ventured out into the danger to search for information for him.Shade was a computer-generated adult male who provided creature comforts for his children.
But he also sent them on dangerous missions into the Overlord territory where the risk of capture and death was constant.
The four friends quietly made plans to do all in their power to destroy the Overlords, which would in turn destroy the strange creatures who controlled their lives.
Garth Nix is wonderful. He is one of the true great sci-fi and fantasy authors. Shade's Children was heartbreakingly sad and clever. This book is not a pick-me-up but I do think that it is original and interesting. However, fans of the Old Kingdom beware, this is very different from his other books.
داشتم کتابخونه رو گردگیری میکردم که نگاهم افتاد به این یکی؛ از اونجایی که به تازگی وارد لیست انتظارم شده بود، با کنجکاوی بازش کردم و چند صفحهای ازش خوندم؛ چند صفحه خواندن همانا و دیگه زمین نذاشتنش همان.ـداستان در زمین خودمون روایت میشه (دقیقتر بگیم در آمریکا) اما در زمانی کاملا متفاوت؛ دورهای پساآخرزمانی. طی تغییری بزرگ و ناگهانی تمام افراد بالای چهارده سال ناپدید شدن و گونهای جدید به جای اونها به زمین اومدن که با اومدنشون زندگی بازماندگان رو به کابوسی زنده مبدل کردن؛ به حدی که مرگ به آرزویی شیر
داشتم کتابخونه رو گردگیری میکردم که نگاهم افتاد به این یکی؛ از اونجایی که به تازگی وارد لیست انتظارم شده بود، با کنجکاوی بازش کردم و چند صفحه‌ای ازش خوندم؛ چند صفحه خواندن همانا و دیگه زمین نذاشتنش همان.ـداستان در زمین خودمون روایت میشه (دقیقتر بگیم در آمریکا) اما در زمانی کاملا متفاوت؛ دوره‌ای پساآخرزمانی.
اما اونچه متمایزش میکنه، اول از همه روایت جذاب و پیچیده‌ایه که نویسنده انتخاب کرده؛ در ابتدا خودتون رو در دنیایی کاملا غریبه و مبهم پیدا می‌کنید که تشنه‌ی شناخت بیشترش هستید و نویسنده کم کم از زوایای گوناگون رازهایی رو براتون فاش میکنه که حتی تا آخرین صفحات کتاب ادامه دارن؛ دوم وجود لایه‌ای عمیق‌تر در داستانه که خیلی جالب داره سلطه‌گری و عوام‌فریبی و...
But boo for not noticing that if all the submarine's supplies come from grocery stores that were abandoned 15 years ago, those condoms are really not safe to use anymore.)This time I was amused to think of the Overlords as (view spoiler)[a really dedicated gaming club playing an evil version of Warhammer (hide spoiler)].The best part of Shade's Children, and what if anything really makes it worth reading, is the characterization of the four human protagonists.
And this really did ace it.Shade's Children is set in a dystopia setting, perhaps more modern than not, as the technology of present day is still there in that setting, but no one knows how to use it.
And all the children know that when you die, you become monsters.
There's something about Nix's writing style that makes it very easy for me to read his books, regardless of the subject matter, and it was easy to read as well as enjoyable.Recommendable, but not for the faint of heart.
یا تبدیل به ابزارهایی بلا اختیار (هرچند که ناخودآگاه انسانی شون رو حفظ می کنند و این رنجشون رو افزون می کنه) یا تبدیل می شوند به جنگجویانی که با ید با همون ابزارهایی که قبلا از جنس خودشون بودند مبارزه کنند.
یکی از قسمتهای دردناک این داستان جایی بود که یکی از قهرمانهای دختر داستان ، متوجه می شه اون کسانی که این وحشی گری رو به راه انداختند ، افرادی از جنس انسان هستند.
هرچند که از عالم دیگه ای اومدن و دچار این بهت می شه که چطور انسان می تونه تا این حد وحشی باشه...داستان بی نهایت تلخی بود.
انسجام داستان هم مناسب بود و تقریبا نقطه ی ابهامی در نهایت باقی نمی موند.
So, in midst of all this, what was lagging?Garth Nix seems to like happy endings.
But, given the overall dark content matter of the book, it must be positive to a certain extent.There are several points which are left unresolved by Nix and which glaringly do require our attention.
I think we'd like to know more about these parallel dimensions, and the world from which the Overlords came.
Shortly after the adults disappear the children are rounded up and taken to dormitories where they are raised until their 14th birthday at which time they are taken away by creatures, to the Meat Factory.
The Meat Factory is a holding area where the children are held until their brains and bodies are used to create more creatures, whose sole purpose is to participate in horrible war games for the enjoyment of 'overlords'.
Shade shelters and trains the children to survive against the creatures, while at the same time, using them to gather information so that he can 'set things right'.
it could be epic.Shade's Children tells the story of the world fifteen years after the "Change" led to the rule of the evil Overlords who harvest children on their fourteenth birthdays (called your Sad Birthday) and take them to the Meat Factory, where they are used to create the monsters the Overlords use in their constant warring.
Shade is an interesting character, and probably one of my favorites of the story.
It was a very original, very intense story and it's refreshing to see a well-crafted stand-alone in a world where John Green and Sarah Dessen seem to be the only people who haven't launched into trilogy or 5-book series.
From what I remember, this was a really dark book to read. Being as young as I was, I do remember picking up once and unable to read it. The second time was better because I was so sucked in, I couldn't put it down. Unfortunately, because I was so young and naive, I didn't understand half of what I was reading until the third reading. Quite intensely dark for a children's book--for a child!
Maybe 3.5 stars. An interesting teen novel with some great aspects. The characterisation is very good and the plot engaging, although I feel like the premise had more potential that was perhaps actually explored. Anyway, an enjoyable read.
My favourite individual book from Garth NIX. The plot is great! It's racy, thrilling, futuristique... and the ending made me cry it was that good!
I kind of fell out of love with him when I got to Drowned Wednesday in his Mister Monday series (I can't remember the real name of that series tbh..) I haven't attempted to read anything else of his until, after being pushed by more than a few friends, I ended up picking up Shade's Children on a whim.And thank god I did.
(Which made it really hard to do homework this week) It had everything I wanted in a scifi book, and got me to question my earlier tastes concerning Nix's other series.
I think I was expecting a mish-mash of The Hunger Games and Lord of the Flies, where well developed characters run a survival gauntlet, while re-forming society using their childish wiles alone.
Instead, I felt that it was entertaining at times, and though I was horrified by Shade's Childrens' plight, I was uninvested in the characters, and by the time the incredibly rushed conclusion occurred I didn't care as much as I should have.
After saying all of that, though, I think that Shade's Children might be the rare instance where a movie based on the book is better than the book itself.
I'm a big fan of Garth Nix and have read practically all of his books.
It's almost like he decided he wanted to do what all the other young adult authors were doing by putting in a bunch of swearing and sexual references, but it was very clumsily done and just made his writing sound amateur.
And nothing really important happens until the last few chapters of the book.
I wouldn't recommend this book to anyone, let alone a young adult, for fear it would make them not want to read the goodness that is Garth Nix's other books.
کتابی که بر خلاف کتابهایی مثل آقای دوشنبه و سابریل از یک سری و مجموعه نیست و کتابی مستقل و کامل است. کتابی که خیلی عمیق و جدی نیست، داستانی از ماجراجویی است.در آیندهای نزدیک همهی افراد بالای ۱۴ سال ناپدید میشوند و فقط کودکان زیر ۱۴ سال باقی میمانند که آنها نیز به اردوگاههای منتقل میشوند. در جشن تولد ۱۴ سالگی این بچهها را به کارخانهی گوشت میفرستند تا بخشی از ساختههای اربابان برای مبارزه باشند. موجوداتی به نام اسکریمر، ترکر، وینگر، میرمیدون و فرت. این هیولاها از سه بخشی جادویی، ماشینی و انسانی تشک
اربابان که بر جهان حکومت می‌کنند این موجودات را در مسابقه‌هایی شرکت می‌دهند و به ارباب برنده جام قهرمانی اهدا می‌شود.این مسابقات بسیار طولانی است، زیرا این موجودات باید این مسیر را در عرض ۱۴ سال طی کنند.کتاب ما را به دنبال گلد آی می‌برد، آدم ۱۵ ساله‌ای که از اردوگاه فرار کرده و همچنان در حال فرار است.
سایه به یک بدن احتیاج دارد تا بتواند از بچه‌ها محافظت کند، و این بدن را فقط می‌تواند از اربابان بگیرد.
این تکنیک در این کتاب خوب عمل می‌کند زیرا خواننده انتظار چندانی ندارد و البته بخش‌های اکشن جذاب است و داستان تعلیق خوبی دارد.
For 15 years, when these children and any others that they breed from the survivors reach the age of 14, they are shipped off to the Meat Factory to be turned into various "creatures," which the Overlords, as the seven humans from the other dimension call themselves, use to fight one another in bloody battles held all over the city, all for a trophy that the Overlord who wins the most battles each year gets.But one man, a computer science professor, survived the projectors being turned on because he had placed his consciousness in a computer beforehand; this man now calls himself Shade.
There were three reasons why Shade's Children only got 3 stars, for it was a entertaining storyline and you bonded with Ella, Ninde, Drum and Gold-Eye. First, after having read a series of dystopian novels such as the Gone series, Matched, The Maze Runner series etc..
I found the novel to have way too much sci-fi for my taste.
Picking up the book, I excepted it to be similar to other dystopian novels.
Rather, it would be enjoyed most by people who have an interest in sci-fi thrillers with a bit of a post-apocalyptic twist.
Possibly, if this book is read in these days of popular post-apocalyptic stories, one might be tempted to throw this one in with the "ah, someone read 'Hunger Games' and wrote a book" crowd.
"Shade's Children" is a decidedly different, but similar story.
Different, in that it is science fiction/thriller, and similar in Nix's ability to write young people at odds with their environments and others in a convincing and deft way.
I won't spoil anything here, but if you might enjoy another one of those "post apocolyptic" thriller-y types, or even if you know you won't, you can read this either way.
It was one of the very few stand alone books that blew my mind....fantastic writing and veryyyy original considering its a dystopian and i dont usually like dystopian (after suffering from PTSD from readin fail dystopians such as Matched and Delirium) so yeh read this book its sooooo good and sooooo original and creative...
) (hide spoiler)]yeh so by all the other review and from my five stars u cud tell that it was a GREAT book.when i was reading it i thought it was quite good, but now i think its AWSME.
It's one of those novels that sucks you into the story and doesnt let you go till you've reached the end, and then want more.It's about these kids, set in the future, when all the adults are gone.
Or even if you're starting on this and you're reading Nix for the first time (this was my first book by him too) you'll appreciate this one and want to read more of his work.
For some reason I found this book rather difficult to get into the first time around, although upon picking it up for the second time I managed to work my way through it in next to no time at all.
I cannot pinpoint what prevented me the first though, yet I am glad I managed to get over whatever it was.It’s a thrilling story of a group of people in a world where children are the only ones left and being used for a much darker reason.
We follow the story of one group, with their story full of twist.
Four stars, though I don't know why. The writing wasn't outstanding, though it was good, I'm not so sure I liked the ending, some things could have been explained better, and all my favorite characters got killed. Still, it was quite hard to put down; I read it in two days. It has loads of action, the characters are believable and largely likable, and the general idea of the story is also good. And if one were of a mind, there would be plenty of moral, ethical and philosophical questions to ponder.
One day, everyone over the age of fourteen has vanished from the Earth, and in their place are Overlords and hideous alien creatures. The children are rounded up and trained until their "sad birthday," when an alien attaches itself to them or they are ripped apart for meat. The few children who manage to escape live a borderline life, constantly fleeing the aliens that have overrun their world. The only ray of hope is "Shade," a personality left behind in a computer. And yet Shade has been worryingly casual about the children’s lives…Action packed and nicely dark.
Normally I love anything by Garth Nix, but I'm just not so sure about this one. Obviously the writing is fantastic - that is to be expected, but I just couldn't seem to connect with the characters or really feel involved in the story. Perhaps that might be because I've so enjoyed everything I've ever read by Garth previously, so my expectations may have been elevated.This is a good book, but just not great... In my humble opinion.
Nearly twenty years ago, I purchased Shade’s Children. I hadn’t read it since I was a kid. Two decades later, the story is still mesmerizing. I couldn’t put it down! The book reads like a film; there is constant action. Every sentence serves a purpose; there isn’t fluff. For a Young Adult book, it’s rather impressive. Honestly, someone should consider making this into a movie or a short series. It would do well.  The genre of the book is science-fiction. Essentially, only children remain on the
Nearly twenty years ago, I purchased Shade’s Children.
The book reads like a film; there is constant action.
For a Young Adult book, it’s rather impressive.
The genre of the book is science-fiction.
Essentially, only children remain on the planet.
However, the new world is ruled by evil Overlords, using the bodies of children to create monstrous creatures.
Most children do not survive past sixteen years of age.
It’s a disgusting concept – one that pulls at your heartstrings.
However, it’s a glorious read.
Shade’s Children is action-packed, well-written, and philosophical.
It holds-up – even twenty years later.
It was good.
However, the lack of emotional development of the characters limited the depth the story could have reached.
Like in most dystopian novels, the question of what had happened to the rest of the world remained unanswered.
Shade’s Children was limited to the city and the immediate area around it.
The Overlords felt like secondary characters and I wanted them to be more three dimensional.
Whilst reading Shade’s Children, I felt like I was reading about a computer game.
I know that this book would appeal to people looking for loads of action without much of the emotional drama but Shade’s Children was not one of my favourites.
So, without giving too much away: dystopian future (from before dystopian books were cool) in which fourteen-year-olds give up their organs and brains to fuel creatures controlled by evil Overlords.
(hide spoiler)] The clear villains are the Overlords, but everyone else seems to exist in shades of grey--something Nix has always done well in his work.Now that I'm older, I also understood the structure of the book better as well.
