https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/313929.The_Big_Bounce
Romantico a suo modo.Bevono molto, lui soprattutto birra (basta che sia ben fredda), lei Cold Duck, un vino frizzante tipico della zona di Detroit (una schifezza composta di almeno un paio di vitigni diversi, di origine tedesca, aromatizzata al limone e menta – forse per rinfrescare l’alito?)I protagonisti del secondo adattamento del 2004: Owen Wilson su tutti, in onore del quale il personaggio diventa anche un po’ gigolo; lei è Sara Foster; Morgan Freeman, Gary Sinise, Charlie Sheen completano il cast.
Washed up wannabe ball player Jack Ryan has a brush with the law and soon gets entangled with Nancy, a rich man's young girlfriend.
Turns out Nancy is a thrillseeker and soon has Jack headed for another brush with the law...If I'm not mistaken, this is Elmore Leonard's first crime book.
Also like it's descendents, the dialogue is slicker than a wet raft and the lines between good and bad are as blurred as the drive home after a weekend-long drunk.Brief side note: This has been made into a movie twice but I have no inclination to see either since I don't buy Ryan O'Neal or Owen Wilson as Jack Ryan.
(This is a blog post I did that covers the two Leonard books featuring Jack Ryan.)One of my favorite aspects about Elmore Leonard’s writing was that by shifting perspectives constantly he had the ability to make you sympathize with a character so that the hero of the story might not be who you thought it was at the beginning of a book.
Jack Ryan from The Big Bounce and Unknown Man #89 is unique because it seems like Leonard couldn’t decide if he was cool or not.
I have to have some liking for the characters in a novel of this sort. I got about 1/3 of the way through hoping to find one & that's all I found; one minor character. He's not bad, but not enough to prop up the rest.
Leonard is a fantastic writer and his skill shows in certain aspects of this work, but for the most part, this book just doesn't function well.
THe plot didnt feel like a heist novel, it seemed to be filled with hot air and unsure as to where to go, never finding solid ground.
To be honest I will read more of Leonard's work, something with a higher rating next time for certain.
I wouldn't exactly call this novel a stinker, but it isn't a satisfying good read either, unless maybe you are a huge fan of Elmore and want to have read his complete body of works.
An old Leonard tale from 1969. Very pulpy with cardboard characters. Some fun and oddball moments but forgettable. Great thing that Leonard got better and better with time.
He's a petty criminal and drifter whose first caper in the novel is to sneak into a resort house and steal the wallets of vacationers who have left their pants and purses behind while they surf and sunbath.
Pretty daring stuff.He wanders around the resort a bit more, looking for opportunities of one kind or another and ends up getting himself hired as a handyman by the resort's owner, Mister Majestyk (who later has a book of his own, who seems unrelated to this guy except by Elmore's name.
As if all that weren't enough, Frank's being pursued by some wetbacks on the other end of the income scale who think they were stiffed on the beach house caper.
It's a well-oiled machine, a Leonard novel.In The Big Bounce we meet a drifter who has done a little prison time and who recently nearly beat someone to death with a baseball bat.
And we meet a 20 year old woman, the mistress of the drifter's ex-boss, a sociopath, always looking for a kick, which usually involves doing damage to someone or something.You get a feeling from this book - the same feeling you get from the best of the Raymond Chandler novels.
There's a kind of languor and coolness to the main characters that makes you think of Bogart and Bacall in The Big Sleep.
Thumbs up on this ending. It goes where you least expect it and cuts short of the “big bounce,” but man, still completely satisfying. Great example of Elmore letting his people take the plot where it wants to go instead of the other way around.
2-dimensional, tone-deaf - none of the words on the page feel necessary - pulp without the charm
I'm usually a big Elmore Leonard fan, but I found this story to be entirely lacking. The characters weren't very interesting. There wasn't really much of a plot or conflict. It seems to come down to the fact that Nancy is just bored and has no moral center. But to root for Jack Ryan is difficult in that he seems to want to be better, but continues to go along with Nancy's increasingly immoral ideas because why not? Fortunately, I know that Leonard gets much better than this.
The protagonist of the book, Jack Ryan, is a classic Elmore Leonard leading man.
You better believe Jack Ryan plays by his own rules.
Anyway, if I had a picture of Owen Wilson in my mind, the character of Jack Ryan would have been tainted.Overall, The Big Bounce was a solid airport book, but I enjoyed it slightly less than some other Leonard books.
I believe Leonard originally wrote the story in 1966, so maybe he was using archetypes with which I'm not familiar.I was not especially impressed by the ending.
Much like this review.(P.S. This is my 100th "read" book on Goodreads, which feels surprisingly satisfying.)
in this book.Elmore Leonard's Jack Ryan, not Tom Clancy's, or the jerk who was married to Jeri Ryan, will be return in Unknown Man No. 89.~…the real bounce was breaking something expensive.~~…giving him something to think about when he was home with his wife from Holden and the boy eight and the boy six.~~“Boiled potatoes, just plain or with some parsley,” Ryan said.
I mean it’s got the most potato taste.”	“Right!” Mr. Majestyk said, with a tone that said it was the correct answer.~~There was no reason to hunch your shoulders.
I recently wrote a short review on The Hunted, another novel by Elmore Leonard.
In that review, I suggested that you can never be certain of the eventual outcome.
The protagonist, as usual, seems to be a guy with a past.
And, unlike the former novel, this protagonist doesn’t seem to have the proverbial heart of gold.
Although I finished the book, I never was satisfied that I did or ever could care about any of the characters except for one supporting character who seemed to trust the main character, regardless of evidence.
I wasn’t happy with the ending and I don’t recommend the book.
It is hard for me to understand what I think about this book.
I want to say I didn't like it -- but I've spent quite a bit of time thinking about the two main characters, dwelling on them, wondering if they depict a reality I am just too far from to understand.
Tough guy Jack Ryan, adept at petty larceny, encounters a seductive young woman who is pushing the boundaries of deception and violence in a quest for a bigger ‘bounce’ each time.
Slowly (because they have to take their turn in the TBR pile) I’m reading all Leonard’s novels in order of publication.
I’m a little frustrated by the slightly open ending – but some readers do like them, and I know what I want to happen next, so I’ll assume that’s what will.
Leonard’s spare style is brilliant, sometimes a bit tough to follow with all the American English, but well worth the effort.
I'm slowly becoming a big Elmore Leonard fan. He writes solid, modern crime fiction about interesting people who rarely do the expected. It doesn't hurt that the dialog is usually a joy to listen to. This was one of his first after an early start writing westerns, about an ex-con/ex-baseball player and a thrill-seeking kept woman. How they fit and how they don't kept me engossed throughout.
Every Elmore Leonard novel provides a clinic on how to write a crime thriller. Even these early ones show a master at work.
Elmore Leonard's talent for dialogue and character sketch is here in spades, but the characters sketched aren't likable enough, the plot doesn't move soon enough (things don't get going - at all - until nearly halfway through), and the story isn't interesting enough to hold the reader's attention.While the tale does delve interestingly into the development of criminal mentality in its characters, it does so with meandering pace and jarring shifts in perspective.
These are artifacts common to first novels - that this is Leonard's first crime novel is evident to the reader - and he does get far, far better in his later efforts.
You'd be better served reading his later work - though this is certainly of interest to completionists and devotees.
Second favourite author is Elmore Leonard-Stephen King first.
The Big Bounce is a fun suspense drama with a beautiful girl: Nancy who is a nasty piece of work: a rich mans plaything and even a menace throwing rocks at house windows and is a gold digger..
Nancy meets Jack Ryan not so rich but they hit it off.
She informs Jack about fifty grand in some rich guys house and now two temptations for Jack.
1 is the beautiful Nancy and 2 is fifty grand.
More drama then thriller but like Stephen King Elmore Leonard is unpredictable: anyone can perish or triumph.

You know the author is wrapping it up and you set your mind to how things are going to end.
Then the entire last 25% was filled with hoopdedoodle (look at Elmore Leonard's ten rules of writing).
So I wish these e-book publishers would stop ruining the flow of the author's hard work - and from taking away from the reading pleasure of their customers - us.
Stop the hoopdedoodle, please.As far as my opinion of this work, what can I say, except that it was written by the king of dialog and prose.
Just make sure you check where this fun read ends and the hoopdedoodle begins.
Elmore Leonard's characters are the stupidest, most frustrating, orneriest, most real characters you are ever likely to read.Some people are just dumb, and some just annoying and that happens in real life, but not so much in fiction. He also has this way of filling in details about people's lives that are absurd and pointless, yet so important to them, and to us as readers to get inside the heads of these strange/normal people.
At first I was underwhelmed. Then the pace picked up and the plot quickly turned into a page turner, for a while. The built up to something that I expected to be shattering, but it fizzled. I enjoyed how the main characters were all crooks, each with varying levels of experience and none with reasonable motivations. All elements considered, I enjoyed this book for the character development, the writing, and the pace. It still won't be a long-term favorite.
Fun characters with interesting interactions and solid dialogue, the setting was well developed and felt full, but the story was a little lacking, if an interesting twist on the traditional heist. I think if the book would have ended 15 minutes earlier I would given it another star.I enjoyed this but it was nothing special.
Elmore Leonard is the all-time master of perfectly creating people you absolutely never ever want to meet in real life. His people are totally real. They (unfortunately) actually do exist. Nobody does it better than Dutch.
I enjoyed the novel and agree with the reviews I read: it's the characters, not the plot, that make the story special.One thing I couldn't figure out: what outcome did Jack Ryan envision for himself at the end of the story, and what made him embrace or accept it?
In writing this book it didn't site the author followed his own writing principles.
sharp prose, disjointed ending based more in character than the heavily foreshadowed plot.
Simple prose, but I don't care for this genre and never felt any attachment to the characters. Tough to get through.
