https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/87976.The_Tower_Treasure
Published in 1927, The Tower Treasure is the book that introduced the teenage heroes, Frank and Joe Hardy, and which also began the series that would introduce generations of young boys to the world of crime fiction.
This first volume was written by a Canadian author, Leslie McFarlane.As the book opens, Frank and Joe, sixteen and fifteen respectively, are riding their motorcycles down a narrow road, when a speeding car nearly runs them off the road.
Later, the car is found wrecked and the driver has apparently stolen a yellow roadster belonging to one of the Hardy boys' chums.
★★★★★★★☆☆☆[7/10]✅Frank Hardy is eighteen, OK? He could definitely do well to handle a case which doesn't have the culprits leaving bread crumb trails, particularly keeping in mind to make sleuthing easy for the young detectives. ✅The older detective could do well to remember that his sons are capable of doing this dirty job all on their own and get off their case. ✅Famous Five adventures have more nail biting moments than this one and Famous Five is only a bunch of kids!
And one of those simpler pleasures was reading these books about two brother detectives, their friends, and the adventures they had fighting criminals in their fictional hometown of Bayport and elsewhere in the world.I have to give credit to the library in my grade school for introducing me to their extensive Hardy Boys collection.
I used to eagerly await the end of classes to get the chance to borrow a worn book at least once a week and read it at home.In an age of innocence, the Hardy Boys series provided a rich fare for the imagination and fantasize about being a detective oneself.
I know, this book is not a great book, not by any stretch of the imagination--and the whole series is dated now but I give the book five stars because the Hardy Boys' books was the series that made me a voracious reader when I was in elementary school.
How much do the Hardy Boys's books mean to me?
One of the best days of my life was the last day of school at the end of the fifth grade.
One of my friends was cleaning out his desk and he had a stack of seven or eight Hardy Boys' books that he didn't want to have to carry home.
I own all of the old ones that were written before they were edited in 1959, and years later I began reading and buying the older Nancy Drew series.
Here I am in my older years, and I am still reading them, but now I have added The Hardy Boys to the list of books I am in the process of collecting, but only if they, too, were written before 1959.
Books that are this old and are well read must have been really loved.So now the story: Frank and Joe Hardy are driving their motorcycles along Shore Road when a speeding car almost drives them over the cliff.
The Hardy Boys.
I grew up reading the Hardy Boys Casefiles Series but I also read a few from the original series.
If a man enjoys mystery novels, I'd make a healthy wager that obsession began with this series.Right from the start, all of the great Hardy Boys components are there:- The father detective- The low stakes mystery- The rival detective- Teamwork as far as the eye can seeSpecifically, this novel had:- More use of the word "chum" than I've ever seen any all of the books I've ever read before this combined!- Hobo Johnny!- Multiple Trap doors!- Not cool jokes about fat kids!I enjoyed this book immensely but am disappointed by the lack of quick sand.
Pa: So who did you like better?Miloš: Umm ...
Pa: Like Sherlock Holmes?Miloš: Yeah.
Pa: Are you going to read more Hardy Boys?Miloš: Yeah.
But first I am going to finish Frankie Pickle and the Mathematical Menace, then read James and the Giant Peach, then read book two.
Where's James and the Giant Peach?Miloš: I dunno.
Miloš: You couldn't?
Maybe it should be a Hardy Boys mystery?
Pa: Anything else to say about the Hardy Boys?Miloš: No.Pa: You're effusive.Miloš: Although it was cool.
Go look for your book.
The iconic Hardy Boys, Joe and Frank and their intrepid father Fenton are a delightful crime-solving family and this is their very first adventure.
It is full of cliff-hangers and fun.
Actually written by a collective that hides behind the name Franklin W.
Dixon, the books had to be re-written in the 50s to remove some of the inherent racism that pervaded them.
My son and I have only read the more recent volumes.
After this first one, my 9yo wanted more Hardy's and so far we have read seven of them.
Every book should have a bad hobo.
Cause I know you like him best.Miloš: The fact that at the very end he suddenly popped out good ideas, and he was the one that actually really made them find the treasure because he figured out where it was the old water tower.Pa: He was the one who said it was there, but Frank was thinking the same thing, remember?Miloš: Yeah.Pa: Is it that Joe wasn't afraid to think out loud, to maybe make a mistake, and Frank was keeping things to himself, and maybe was more self-conscious?Miloš: Yeah.Pa: Okay.Miloš: But at the same time, Frank is sort of the hero of the tale.Pa: So you like the underdog, the supporting character.Miloš: Yeah, sometimes I do the same thing with villains.
As a kid, I had read one or two of the original stories, as well as a handful of the "Hardy Boys Casefiles" series-- the updated, more contemporary adventures of Frank and Joe Hardy (at least for the 1980s)-- but I never fully got into them; now I wish I had.
For sheer fun and simple entertainment, I would definitely recommend the Hardy Boys series to young readers, families, and anyone who just enjoys a good story.
I can honestly say these books taught me the love of reading.
When I got one in the mail, I would tear into it and not be able to put it down.
I loved the suspense at the end of each chapter.
I loved the simple adventures and the cool things the "chums" were able to do.
There were boats, cars, and motorcycles, not to mention the cool remote locations they were able to go to.
Now that I write my own fiction, I love to use some of the same tools the original "Franklin W.
The Hardys believe the man in the wig is guilty, but Hurd has another theory: the transgressor is Henry Robinson, caretaker of the Tower Mansion.
Robinson's son, Slim, is friends with the Hardy boys and they know his father isn't corrupt, but Hurd is convinced of Robinson's guilt, and Chief Ezra Collig of the Bayport police tends to agree.
Linking the holdup attempt, the mansion robbery, and the man who almost ran Frank and Joe off the road requires diligence, but Fenton Hardy takes his sons seriously once they provide him evidence.
Fun read with my little boys. 5 yo loved it. A bit much for the 3 yo :)
When I was a young man, or younger than a young man, I delved and consumed Hardy Boy books as if they were the best thing ever.
Much as they are becoming again.First books in a series, a long series, do their best to introduce the various characters that will be in the series.
And now as an adult, reading many mysteries and even writing a few, know about trying to pull the reader along, this does not hold for an adult.It works as a piece of Nostalgia and another time, another era, a remembrance for me of when I was young and clamoring for more of the series.
As a kid, I read Nancy Drew/Hardy Boys SuperMysteries, but have never spent time with the Hardys on their own.
I was surprised by how indistinguishable Frank and Joe are in their first outing, as I remember them having very distinct personalities in their outings with Nancy Drew.
With the exception of a weird confrontation with a homeless man, everything was fairly predictable.What was surprising to me was the father/son relationship between Fenton and the boys.
It would have been nice if the female contribution was more than just baking but this is the 20's, i think the 20's and 50's are probably the most sexist of decades in terms of media, as the male-society reasserted its control after the relative female freedom caused by the war years, just a hypothesis.There's a good bit of interest in the outcome of the case as it effects some of the characters in the story in a very sympathetic way.
The detective elements were quite good and overall i liked it more than i expected too.
It really kept me interested, thanks to the few twists and turns!It's been a while since I've read a good mystery and coming back to the hardy boys series reminds me just how much I love the genre.
I adore frank and joe's relationship p, and I especially loved the way they behaved with their parents and that they didn't lose hope or give up just because they were stumped.
I liked to see the characters in a book have numerous sides to them.
I felt like frank and joe were very 2 dimensional at times.
In this book, Chet, who is fat, grows upset when his jalopy is stolen, and also grows upset when sleuthing keeps him away from his Welsh rabbit, as he fears that good cheese has gone to waste.
(It has not.) Chet doesn't get to do much sleuthing, hopefully not because he's fat.
His friends, Frank and Joe, do, and they also see a performance of The Merchant of Venice and laugh hilariously because of the lead actor's comedy and gestures.
Later, Frank and Joe distract Detective Smuff by setting a fire behind Rocco's market.
Frank and Joe later locate some stolen jewels.
When their friend Chet's jalopy is stolen, Frank and Joe think it is their chance to prove they can be detectives. But when they find his car, it just leads them to more mysteries.This is my first time reading a Hardy Boys book in years, and I found it interesting. The characters were still as shallow as I remembered, but I was surprised to find the plot was episodic and their father did some big chunks of the investigation without them. Still, I enjoyed it and think kids today will, too.Read my full review at Carstairs Considers.
I don't know... It was kinda like a mix feeling and all. I used to really like mysteries and seeking out the bad guy books when I was younger, probably because times have changed and so have my interest. Yeah, probably. But it was an enjoyable read those, so there's that.
Gee boy this book was swell. Very dated but a fun little read for my little boy.
Book 18: Mid-20th Century American Crime ReadathonWe move from Nancy Drew's Florida outing at Nasa (the 18th in the series) to the first Hardy Boys book.HOOK=4 stars: "Frank and Joe Hardy clutched the grips of their motorcycles and stared in horror at the oncoming car.
There are some good twist along the way and everything falls into place nicely.PEOPLE=3: I've read a number of these, and it seems so odd that in this opening book of the series, Frank and Joe are 18 and 17, respectively.
Overall, I remember the Drew series to seem better, but here, the plot of "The Tower Treasure" is exemplary for any mystery, really.
I came across The Tower Treasure while flipping through audiobooks on OverDrive.
Pure nostalgia.
I loved these books when I was a kid.
This series is special to me because it made me love to read.
The Tower Treasure is the first Hardy Boys mystery and it’s a great story.
Good mystery, amusing friendships (i.e., husky Chet Morton and his yellow jalopy), and a well written plot with an interesting and entertaining use of adverbs and vocabulary.
I don’t know if kids still read these books today, but I hope they do because they are really fun stories.
I decided to start reading this series because a few years ago my father gave my brother and I the complete boxed set of Hardy Boys books for Christmas.
For instance, one of them says something like "You grabbed onto that banister with flash camera speed!" And I'm sure feminists would be offended because the gender roles in this book are so old.
There is no character development and you can't even distinguish between the Hardy Boys, Frank and Joe. And the author just randomly throws in minor charcters that have nothing to do with anything.It's a mediocre start to a pretty famous series.
I'll give it a few more books to get better.
Read some more Hardy Boys...finally.
I'm not sure I'll read the rest, but I would like to some day.
These are mostly a quick read.
Yes, these are dated, they were dated when I read them, but I still like the books.
One reason I like the Hardy Boys is like Harry Potter and the Unicorn Chronicles, this book got me into reading.
You can blame the Hardy Boys and Nancy Drew for my liking to detective fiction.
These days, I like more mature mystery stuff, but reading light stuff isn't a bad thing either.
My older son is still a couple years shy of reading these, but I have very fond memories of the Hardy Boys books. They introduced me to so many basic concepts of storytelling, and (to my young mind) they were exciting as all get out. I'm not going to put every single one of them on my Goodreads shelf ... just the ones that especially stand out in my memory.
I have great memories of how books like this developed my love for reading. I devoured almost every book in the old series. I have good memories of searching for the next book in the series and never tiring of them. They had more meat than other series like Tom Swift that I read.
Classic mystery tale as two boys attempt to find a hidden treasure.
What a swell stroll down my childhood memory lane!
