https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/786256.Stellaluna
Mom read it to me whenever I asked until I lost Stellaluna in the first grade.
(TRAGIC.)My mother, being the most awesome of mothers, put up Missing Poster signs for Stellaluna.
Stellaluna was gone.
I thought back to the book, and how the birds cared for Stellaluna while she was lost - teaching her to sit upright during the day and all that - and how her time with the birds - and me - was short-lived so she could return to a life of living in the night and sleeping upside down.
“Stellaluna” is a gorgeous picture book by Janell Cannon and it is about how a baby bat named Stellaluna learns how to live with the birds after she is separated by her mother during an owl attack.
Janell Cannon makes the story extremely exciting and heartwarming as it details the adventures that Stellaluna embarks on after she is separated from her mother and lives with the birds.
Janell Cannon also did a great job at providing tension in this book, especially when Stellaluna is separated from her mother and many children will definitely feel afraid for Stellaluna as the idea of losing one’s parent is frightening to a child.
I read this book so often when I was younger! It is so cute!
I bought some children's books and was about to gift them but decided to read them first before giving them away.
This particular book I used to read to my daughter when she was little.
Not surprising that I don't remember what the plot was about, as many times as I probably read this to her.It is such a cute book about a bat who becomes separated from her mom and is raised by a bird family.
✩ 4.5 Stars ✩
Apparently I reserved something called a "big book" so when I went to go pick it up, it wouldn't even fit in my bag.
It was this big floppy paperback book that was roughly the size of my kitchen countertop.
Trying to hold open the floppy book so that I could read and the kids could see the pictures was very difficult.
The big size of the book enhanced this.
Somewhere around a level 2 reading book, It's the story of a bat who gets separated from her mother when young and tries to learn to ignore her nature and be a bird.
I have read this book to my children 752 times (well maybe that's an exaggeration). And I've cried 751 (that's not.)It's that moment when the mom says, "You are MY Stellaluna." *sob* My kids weren't weepy, btw. Nope, just me.This has to be one of my favorite books for the 6 and under crowd- amazingly beautiful pictures I was tempted to frame, a nice (but not annoying) message about acceptance and friendship, makes you laugh and cry. Thank goodness I have kids or I would have completely missed out on this perfect children's story.
I read this book to a classroom of first gradersThe children loved this story! When baby bat, Stellaluna, is separated from her mother, she tries to be a bird. She does not hang upside down; she stays in the nest, she does not eat fruit; she eats grasshoppers, she does not sleep during the day; she sleeps at night. It was so fun to watch the kids be distressed by the mother bird trying to make Stellaluna into something she's not. This is a classic story for a good reason!
I love bats! I miss my bat box. So I enjoy this little story of a bat finding her way. My niece enjoyed this. I enjoyed it too.The art shows just the right emotions. Could bats be any cutier?
How cute is this book? A bat who tries to be a bird. Lovely illustrations. I bought it immediately and forced it on every child I knew.
Amazing book with a healthy message. Themes: identity, friendship, acceptance, kindness and the list goes on. Recommended to all children.
My youngest squirt's first-grade book club met to discuss Janell Cannon's Stellaluna, the story about how a bat and birds befriend each other regardless of their differences.stellalunagroupSince the bat in question is a fruit bat, various fruits were offered for snack such as kiwi, pineapple, and grapes.
After reading her clue, the bookie then told me where to put her name on the Venn Diagram.As bellies neared fullness, each book club member shared a picture she drew of a favorite character or scene and shared a discussion question with the group.
My squirt wasted no time in decorating her house.Next discussion: Miss Piper's pick of Chrysanthemum by Kevin Henkes
Delightful and informative but never didactic: a splendid debut."From Booklist:Cannon's delightful story is full of gentle humor, and even young children will understand the little bat's need to fit in.
Cannon provides good information about bats in the story, amplifying it in two pages of notes at the end of the book.
Her full-page colored-pencil-and-acrylic paintings fairly glow: Stellaluna's depiction reflects the starlight and moonlight of the bat's name, and the pictures of the creature hauling herself onto a limb, hanging by her thumbs, and "joy-flying" are truly amusing."
Stellaluna finds herself in a bird’s nest, and her adventure of believing she is a bird, learning she is a bat and being reunited with her mother follows.
Stellaluna attempts to unite her adopted bird family with her rediscovered bat community.
There are also two pages of notes on bats at the back of the book, lending this text to a science lesson or a unit on animals.
The large full-color illustrations are accompanied by small sketch-like drawings that show Stellaluna’s mother searching for her throughout the story.
As with many picture books, the illustrations are so elaborate non-readers can tell the story in their own words using the pictures.
I had only ever read the first few pages prior to today, and I thought this book would be sad.
It isn't, it is freaking hilarious!!!
The pictures (and the premise) add a lot to the humor -- the idea of a baby fruit bat being adopted by birds is about as hilarious as the idea of Simba being adopted by Timon and Pumba in The Lion King.
My favorite moment would be Stellaluna hanging by her thumbs...just the very idea.
Anyway, there is a lot to work with in this book for different character voices, and the pictures are also wonderful.
Such a sweet little bat. I love the effort Stellaluna makes to fit in with her bird fosters, and the efforts they make to be more like her. And it has a happy ending, which is always nice in a book about critters. [That's right, kill the kids all you want, as in [book:The Gashlycrumb Tinies|47558], but don't kill the critters, or I'll get cranky]
Can you believe Ellen Pompeo named her daughter after a bat?!? Not just any bat either. NO! One who is separated from her mother in a traumatic attempted murder by an owl and subsequently forced to live with birds and eat BUGS?!?!
A simple story with profound ideas about family, friends, identity and environment. With beautiful illustrations, Stellaluna offers thoughts on how a life is shaped & educates on a fascinating flying mammal. A perfect bedtime story to enlighten young minds.
I love this book! I think it would be great in a unit on animals and could lead to a discussion about nocturnal animals and what that means. This book reminded me of another book by Janell Cannon called Verdi that would also be good in an animal unit.
Loved it so much!
I mean, it's a fine book. (My little cousin is going through a bat phase right now, so we're learning all about bats and their lives. It's pretty cute.)
If you're different you better act like everyone else around you or they will kill you but they'll be your friends if you help them. I find the artwork bizarre and the bat shooting beams of light from its eyeballs will haunt my nightmares.
While they have become a close knit family, Stellaluna needs to learn how to be on her own and soon meets other bats including her mother.Time has passed tremendously and we see how Stellaluna grows and it was nice to see that her mother wasn't killed by the owl.
While she has met her mother again, she is still close to her other family and compromises to meet in the middle and show the birds her world of a bat in the nighttime.What impressed me the most about this book is the author did her research about fruit bats and how these were suppose to be drawn, how they fly, and practically every single question you may be wondering after reading the book.
Summary: Stellaluna is an award winning picture book that tells the story of a bat who loses her mother and grows up with a family of birds.
The book does a wonderful job of educating its readers on bats and birds and the difference between them.
9) and the story of Stellaluna does just that for its readers.Classroom connection: Stellaluna would be a great way for teachers to teach their class about bats and birds and the differences between the two.
Although the story itself is fiction, the book is based on facts about bats that are extremely educational.
Stellaluna is a sweet story about a young fruit bat who is raised by a family of birds after becoming separated from her mother.
Also funny to see the young birds trying to hang upside down.
:)Educational notes about bats are provided at the end of the book and a lovely blurb about the author and how she spent years developing summer reading programs for children.
This same love and respect for all creatures inspired her to choose bats as the subject of her first children's book.
This book haunted me even in my dreams.
I was at Mimi's house and all of a sudden a tree grew from the middle of her floor and out the window.
My dad and I climbed out on the limb that hung over a highway that looked eerily similar to that frogger game.
All of a sudden Stellaluna showed up with a graduation cap on and one of those pretentious pointer things ivy-league professors supposedly use.
Then we were lectured about pollution and how highways result in a numerous amount of roadkill.I woke up feeling like I had a duty to protect the environment.
What a lovely story!
I first read this (technically, it was read to me) when I was six years old and years later, I still love it.
It's about a baby fruit bat named Stellaluna who is separated from her mother at a young age and raised by birds.
Eventually, she reunites with her bat family, but remains friends with the birds.
I love the moral of this story: that even if you are not like your friends, it is still possible be friends with them.
This is a really sweet story, and even though it's a picture book, I think it will resonate with readers of all ages.
Very cute book about bats and birds.
A little simple, but a good children's book.
Halfway through the book I thought the author had been lazy and stupid trying to convince us that bats saw with beams of lights shooting out of their eyes...
But at the end of the book there is a fact page about bats, and what do you know?
I learned something today.
Some bats use their ears and clicking sounds to navigate, and the bigger ones shoot lights out of their eyes!
It's amazing how just because you're grown up you think you know everything.
An education in bats and a little education in birds. How can they seem so similar but be so different. What a wonderful book and a great story. The illustrations were great and the dialogue was comical. There is even an added educational bit in the end that tells you about the variety in bats.
A cute picture book about a lost bat who eventually is found by her mother again -- it also helps point out some of the primary differences and similarities between birds and bats. This caught my interest because my daughter's name is Stella, but I realized the bat's name basically means "Star-moon." Makes sense!
