https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/40806.Turtle_Moon
Impresionante! Es increíble cómo un libro que no te atrae, es capaz de convertirse en una maravillosa sorpresa. Una novela que ha llegado a mis manos por azar y se ha convertido en una de las mejores lecturas de este año.
Μια γυναίκα δολοφονείται, δυο παιδιά εξαφανίζονται, ένα κακό αγόρι πιάνει φιλία με έναν τρελό σκύλο, ένας άσχημος άντρας ερωτεύεται μια όμορφη γυναίκα και ένας άγγελος προσπαθεί να συγχωρέσει για να περάσει στον Παράδεισο. Καταπληκτικός συνδυασμός μαγικού ρεαλισμού και αστυνομικού αναγνώσματος. Διαβάζεται ευχάριστα χαρη στην τρυφερή και ονειροπόλα αφήγηση και γρήγορα χάρη στην ελαφρώς αγωνιώδη δράση. Μου αρεσε πολύ.
The first Hoffman book that I ever read (it was recommended to me by another librarian--Karlan Sick). It started me on a frenzy of reading her books. I read everything of hers that had been published up to then, and I've read most of her books since. She's one of my very favorite authors.
Like a lot of Alice Hoffman's work, it has a magical realistic touch.
And unlike a lot of magical realism, it feels very realistic; its details evocative of a real life somewhere.
I think this is why I love Alice Hoffman's work.
She creates worlds where magic is entirely credible, like it could happen to me or someone close to me.
She also creates such richly human characters that it feels like they are the someone close to me.
In other books, people talk about it being hot but in this one, somehow, she made me really feel Florida.
It took ten years, but I finally finished "Turtle Moon" by Alice Hoffman, an off-beat magical, romantic, mystery journey that several characters embark on after a runaway wife is murdered and her baby taken.
Some reviewers called this novel suspenseful and thrilling, but its beat sways to the lazy, hot weather in Verity, Florida, where emotions drip like the sap from a gumbo tree and relationships are as messy as the squashed turtles on the road in May. One must wade through a muddled beginning, but the story line eventually straightens out, clarifying the obstacles each character must overcome.
I often pick a favorite quotation from a book and keep it in my own personal list of books I've read.
Here's my favorite from this one.
"He was waiting to see if his mother would come back for him, even after it became clear that she never would.
With every night he spent at the window, his heart closed up a little more, and it would have stayed that way if Bobby hadn't come looking for him.
He remembers exactly the way it felt, sitting on the porch with his bucket of toads, blinking in the sunlight, not quite believing that someone had actually found him.
I hated the ending which left me grieving for days.STORY BRIEF:Karen is divorced with a baby.
I loved reading about these odd people, but as a story, there were too many unanswered questions and too much sadness for me.
I loved the way Julian just looked at the high school yearbook pictures of two people and could tell much about them, and he was right.
I loved the relationships between a boy and a baby, and also between the boy and a dog.I did not like that there were so many unanswered questions.
This was my first Alice Hoffman novel and she immediately became my absolute favourite author. I can only describe Alice's writing as poetry in the novel form. I often have to stop at the end of a sentence and close my eyes, so I can imagine it, smell it, or feel it brush past my skin. Her writing is so vivid I sometimes think I absorb her words rather than just read them. Quirky, raw, heartbreaking and lovely. Treat yourself to every single one.
I don't think I finished this as she just rambled on and on and on.........in the strangest most pointless fashion. A couple of her books are excellent but this is NOT one of them. I got very bored.
Then for the more spoilery things that bugged me: (view spoiler)[Why on earth would the infant's father risk hiring someone to re-abduct the infant?
We're supposed to believe that Julian (a cop) allows the infant's father to get away scot-free on his wife's murder, on the premise that he'd spend the rest of his life wondering what happened to his child?
So, all the infant's father has to do is wait a year or two, hire a new investigator to find the child, then reclaim custody...
Even if you hate the father, she's not going to know her grandparents or aunts, uncles and cousins on either side of the family.
Ms. Hoffman delves into the richness of human relationships while exploring the mystical dimensions which we can all experience if we open ourselves to them.
This book may just give you a hankering that will lead you in that direction.Turtle Moon is a book with a strong spiritual theme.
Being the author of a spiritually-oriented book entitled "The Misadventures of Sister Mary Olga Fortitude," I always appreciate books that explore this oftentimes hidden dimension of the human experience.
Turtle Moon will help you make a soul connection.Davis Aujourd'hui, author of "The Misadventures of Sister Mary Olga Fortitude"
“Every May, when the sea turtles begin their migration across West Main Street, mistaking the glow of the street lights for the moon, people go a little bit crazy.”– This is a novel about loners; dogs; vagabond spirits; angels; and the magical words that swirl around them.
Once you enter Verity, you will not want to leave.
Even with heat so hot you could fry an egg on the concrete.
You just will.“Since Verity is the most humid spot in eastern Florida, local people know enough to drink their coffee iced in the morning.
Even in the sweltering heat.
After reading Skylight Confessions, I decided I wanted to read more books by Alice Hoffman, so I made a list of the ones I wanted to read and figured I'd buy any of them that I saw in the thrift stores I frequent.
Well, I saw Turtle Moon and Here On Earth both at a Goodwill in La Crosse and was pretty torn between which one looked better.
not interesting to me) and Turtle Moon's synopsis just sounded boring.
The Angel was the most interesting character but NOTHING HAPPENED in his story, if that even makes any sense.
Alice Hoffman leaves the temperate Northeast and heads south to Verity, a fictional town that "is home to more divorced women from New York than any other town in the state of Florida." As with other Hoffman books, it's difficult to pin down a protagonist, but the action revolves around a divorcee named Lucy, a K-9 cop with a nasty scar named Julian, and Lucy's 12-year-old son Keith, the "meanest boy in Verity.""Turtle Moon" is the magical, maddening month of May when the heat ratchets up and the locals "slip two aspirins into their cans of Coke, wear sunglasses, and avoid making any major decisions." Hoffman has such a skillful way of weaving the impossible along with the improbable into the description of a place that could exist on the coast of Florida, that the reader follows right along, believing it all.
Lucy's efforts to protect Keith bring her into close contact with Julian and lead her to her own desperate measures.
While it still took me a little while to get used to the drawn out descriptions, "Turtle Moon" turned out to be a great read.
In a small town called Verity, divorced women walk around with green hair, Diet Dr. Pepper addictions, and children who are generally unhappy, wanting their no longer present fathers.
One woman chooses Verity as an escape from in-laws bent on taking her little girl from her.
Unfortunately, he becomes known as the meanest boy in town.
I'm a little more excited to read some of her other books now that I read this one.
Until one of them is murdered .
. Lucy's young, troubled son Keith (12 going on 18) turns up missing, along with the murdered woman's baby.
If this were written by another author I'd expect the two to track down the missing kids and fall into a blissfull love affair but it's a Hoffmann novel and her stories are more complicated and melancholy.This book, like the others I've read by Hoffmann, focuses more on its offbeat characters than it does it's mystery and that's fine by me.
It's bittersweet and doesn't go where you expect it too.
TURTLE MOON - OkayHoffman, Alice - standaloneWelcome to Verity, Florida--a bizarre & mysterious place where transplanted New Yorker Lucy Rosen and her son are determined to start a new life.This was not really a mystery. It was okay, but didn't do a lot for me.
She has an uncanny ability to use elements of the natural world not only to describe the setting but also to reveal the thoughts and feelings of her characters.
In Turtle Moon, the wild marshy area where Julian Cash makes his home parallels his wild nature before he encounters the "meanest boy in Verity." Turtle Moon is all about finding one's true home, or, put another way, coming home to one's true self.
People who come to Verity or come from Verity, are truth seekers (The name Verify means Truth.) I especially enjoyed Hoffman's use of the gumbo-limbo tree as an element of her narrative.
Anyway, it’s best to just press on, as it all sorts itself out eventually.
Pretty much all of the cast are somewhat whacked, and it got in my way a bit at times.
As well, the denouement left a bit to be desired for me.
Nothing really negative or devastating, but the story just sort of ground to a halt, with no resolution.
Rereading this, I sound rather negative, but in fairness it’s an interesting story, it’s definitely alluring, I just have an undefined feeling that it could have been a more satisfying journey...worth a read, I like Hoffman, and I will read her again.
It’s May and that means there’s something in the air in the town of Verity in eastern Florida.
As the sea turtles make their yearly journey across West Main Street, the craze in the air (a mixture of stifling humidity and heat combined with superstition) settles upon Verity and its inhabitants.
When Lucy’s neighbor, “Karen,” is found murdered in their apartment complex, the town police are thrown into a frenzy trying to uncover her true identity and the reason behind her murder.
That’s May for you in a town like Verity.
I would recommend this book to anyone looking for a quirky coming-of-age/small-town mystery type of read that includes just a touch of magical realism.
Alice Hoffman is, without a doubt, one of my most favorite authors.
Her ability to make ordinary situations magical, is something I truly enjoy.
This book, was not a favorite.
It was a lot like some of her other books in the way that as she is describing a hot, summer day you can feel yourself there.
The romance that popped up mid story, was in bad timing for me.
The other problem I had with this book was that it was very repetitive.
I still love her, and am dying to zip through my collection of her books, but this just wasn't a fave.
Turtle Moon's main character is Verity, Florida.
I don't know when I've read a book with such a strong sense of place-I felt I was there and could see it, feel it, smell it, touch it.
Most of the other characters are well developed and the writing is fluid.
The novel has a murder, a kidnapping, a coming-of-age, and lots of divorcees all in this small Florida town.
I've read four other of Alice Hoffman's books and this is an early one, hence a four out of five rating.
Her two best which I rated 5 stars were The Dovekeepers and Here on Earth.
I loved this book! From the moment I started reading it I was drawn into her magical, melancholy characters and their lives.
Imádom Alice Hoffmant, de ez a könyve sajnos csalódást okozott, és el is adtam gyorsan. A nyomott, poros kisvárosi hangulat megvan, de a könyv nem több néhány alig-történésnél, csupa érdektelen szereplővel… Nekem valahogy nem jött be, és vagy 2 hónapig tartott mire átrágtam magam rajta.
I liked how the book was told from many different prospectives.
As if by switching the storyteller yo can almost change the story itself, but amazingly the story continues to flow as on air.
This is mainly a story of past and present, and how one can sometimes drasticly influence the other; how sometimes you need to remember everything in the past, to keep yourself from doing the same mistakes over again, but sometimes you need to learn how to let go of the past, that haunts you.Beautifully written story.Loved it.And now I am definitely going to pick some more of Hoffman's books.
Turtle Moon  is about a town named Verity where all kinds of mysterious things happen during the inauspicious month of May. When Lucy first moved to Verity following her divorce from her ex-husband, she never expected that raising his troublesome son Keith on her own, would end up with her chasing the trails of a dead woman with a fake identity. But now that Keith was found missing along with the dead woman's baby, Lucy is forced to find out the truth of who murdered her neighbor, in order to c
is about a town named Verity where all kinds of mysterious things happen during the inauspicious month of May. When Lucy first moved to Verity following her divorce from her ex-husband, she never expected that raising his troublesome son Keith on her own, would end up with her chasing the trails of a dead woman with a fake identity.
I've been trying to find a copy of the book that the film was based on but I've been unsuccessful so far.
Although, when I saw this book on sale for only P30 (less than a dollar), I figured, why not, let's try her other works for now.
It starts very good - Hoffman's prose is delightful, witty and completely seductive.
Every night he drank a bitter tea made from the bark of the paradise tree to ensure his good health, but as it turned out he was eaten by an alligator up by the pond where the municipal golf course was later built." How delightful and what a quirky sense of humour!
Coming straight from "Practical Magic", "Here on Earth" and "The Probable Future", this is the fourth Alice Hoffman novel that has this intriguing premise and no amount of elaborate nature descriptions can disguise it.
There is something about Florida that inspires a subset of American literature that is both tragic and comedic in the same breath.
Set against the oppressive heat and humidity of May in Verity, Florida, Bethany Lee is murdered and the "meanest boy in Verity", a twelve-year-old named Keith becomes the reluctant ward of Bethany's infant daughter.
Keith and baby Rachel find safety at the home of a woman who knows a thing or two about wayward children.Although the ending isn't a happy one with all loose strings neatly tied up, it's a satisfying ending.
So I selected this book from the shelf because, despite my critiques of Practical Magic, I really did like the writing style and magical realist vibe.
I was in the mood for something like that.What it's about: A single mom to a troubledish child lives in super hot Florida and then ~something bad happens~ and...that's what the book is about!
I love the magical realism she weaves in and the whole mood that her books set is great.
I recently re-read this book and liked it even better the second time.
But everything changes when Karen is mysteriously murdered and Keith runs away with the baby in an attempt to protect her from her mother's killer.Into the mix comes Julian Cash, a K-9 policeman with 2 huge, skilled dogs, Arrow and Loretta.
But as he searches for Keith and the baby he and Lucy develop confusing but powerful feelings.I loved this book for its complexity of emotions and I loved Julian even more the second time than the first.
