https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/920810.Uncle_Abner_Master_of_Mysteries
He was a prolific writer, penning numerous stories in national magazines like The Saturday Evening Post and The Ladies Home Journal.He wrote a couple of series and some standalone novels, but it may have been his twenty-plus stories featuring the mystery-solving and justice dispensing West Virginian backwoodsman, Uncle Abner, which helped make Post popular.
Ellery Queen called the stories "an out-of-this-world target for future detective-story writers," and the 1941 review of the mystery genre, Murder for Pleasure, declared that Uncle Abner was, after Edgar Allan Poe's Arsène Dupin, "the greatest American contribution" to the cast of fictional detectives.Uncle Abner is described as "a big, broad-shouldered, deep-chested Saxon, with all those marked characteristics of a race living out of doors and hardened by wind and sun.
Some of the stories demonstrate the limits of human law, while still reinforcing its importance, but above all stress the existence of a higher justice, and the conviction that all guilty parties will meet the justice of God even if they are beyond the reach of human law.As a reader of Westerns, a number of elements in the description of life in Virginia at this period struck familiar chords—the grazing, driving, selling (and sometimes stealing) of cattle and journeys on horseback.
Definitely a great read for anyone who loves classic, old-fashioned detective stories; a fine piece of entertainment with deeper, edifying elements as well.
Abner is the sleuth, solving apparently insolvable crimes and defending innocence.“Oftimes, to win us to our harm, the instruments of darkness tell us truth.”Each story is a short, stand-alone murder mystery.
Not sure about Post’s denominational affiliation, but Abner comes on strong for truth, justice and the American way.
Along the way he quotes and applies the Bible truthfully.“No one of them believed in what the other taught, but they all believed in justice.”Not "the finest mysteries ever written", but they’re good.The heart of a woman is the deepest of God’s riddles.”
Post created a Christian character who is dedicated to his God and the Word of God. When was the last time you read a book that dared use Scripture and all the attendant social implications?
It seems that it’s okay to love America, but you have to be at least embarrassed by the strong Christian men that founded it.
He explains how each aspect influenced the other.
It’s very refreshing to read a book that stands so firmly for the rule of law, especially a law based on God’s authority.
The Christian characters never use them, but I wish they weren’t there.
18 short stories. The stories were okay, but they were written in the early 20th century and were set in the mid 19th, so the language made it difficult to follow. I was reading a Kindle edition, so there were what I believe were typos, but who knows. I just found it hard to follow the dialogue as the characters were not speaking as we speak today.
InterestingI enjoyed this book. Great short mystery stories! I was fascinated how Abner solved these mysteries! If you are looking for a collection of short mysteries to read, I highly recommend reading this book!
Synopsis: eighteen Uncle Abner stories, a pre-civil war outdoorsman who solved murders and robberies in W.Virginia.
This book answers the question "What if Sherlock Holmes were a cowboy?" The narrator, now grown, recalls tagging along with his Uncle Abner as he solved various 'mysteries' that utterly befuddled the inhabitants of a rural community in western Virginia (eventually West Virginia) at the turn of the nineteenth century.
The stories combine the moral code of the Old West and Holmes' logical reasoning and observational skills (though Abner lacks Holmes' extensive scientific training), with a healthy dose of religious conviction thrown in.
Post interjects lots of historical, political, religious, and legal observations along the way, and it is these passages--rather than the actual mysteries--that make the stories worth reading.
Of all the detective stories I remember originally reading in some long-forgotten Ellery Queen omnibus, Uncle Abner has stayed with me the most clearly.
The stories have a strong religious element, with good pitted against evil.
There are quite a few forays into justice versus law, as well: what is right?
And when is lawful not right?
The stories are not all fair play, which may bother some readers.
The historical viewpoint, however, has a charm of its own, and I confess to a great liking for the straightforwardness of the stories: good versus bad, and good (in the form of Uncle Abner) wins.
Maybe 2 stars. These short mystery stories are not mysteries in the contemporary sense - they aren't whodunits which the reader has a chance to figure out the culprit. Rather, they are crime stories which show the darker corners of human nature. Post's main character, Uncle Abner, was interesting but not enough for me to want to read more. The style was sort of a cross between Washington Irving and Arthur Conan Doyle, which I found trying at times. The setting was a bit muddled - in some of the
Maybe 2½ stars.
Rather, they are crime stories which show the darker corners of human nature.
Post's main character, Uncle Abner, was interesting but not enough for me to want to read more.
The setting was a bit muddled - in some of the stories, it is clearly before 1860 (there are still slaves & the region described is part of Virginia instead of West Virginia) while in others there are indications that it is supposed to be the 1890s ("200 years since the massacre of Glen Coe").
Originally published in 1918, these stories are set in the mid 1800s in Virginia. They are as interesting for their historical setting as for the clever deductions made by Uncle Abner in the pursuit of justice. As the story progresses, the reader is led to the suspect without understanding how Uncle Abner has arrived at his conclusion. Often the solution cannot be deduced by the reader because of the withholding of a vital fact, which would not be considered "fair" nowadays. Highly recommended for mystery buffs.
The stories are uneven and there is never a doubt whodunit, but even the lesser stories are excellent. The best are among the finest mystery stories ever written. "Naboth's Vineyard" is one of my all-time favorite stories. The stories are set in what is today West Virginia before the Civil War and some stories are marred with stereotypical portrayals of African-American slaves. Not that this in any way justifies the author's choices in his portrayals of African-Americans, but the stories were written a century ago by a man who was born in and lived his whole life in West Virginia.
Read so far:The Doomdorf Mystery--The Wrong Hand--The Angel of the Lord--An Act of God--The Treasure Hunter--The House of the Dead Man--A Twilight Adventure--The Age of Miracles--The Tenth Commandment--The Devil's Tools--The Hidden Law--The Riddle--The Straw Man--The Mystery of Chance--The Concealed Path--The Edge of the Shadow--The Adopted Daughter--Naboth's Vineyard--
Over the top awesome. Another great Christian detective. Maybe even better than Father Brown. Imagine a massive Calvinist who solves crimes in 19th century Virginia. Great stuff. Deserves a wide audience.
Transport Father Brown to the hills of Virginia, give him physical strength to match his wits and character, set him on a horse, and you have Uncle Abner. These fine mystery tales were first published in 1918.
A protože jsou to dobře napsaný příběhy, skvěle se ilustrovaly a upravovaly (Kalich).
Published in the 1910's and 20's these short stories are seminal works in the history of American crime fiction. Mostly interesting to modern readers for their setting in Antebellum Virginia.
Read "The Age of Miracles"
Great stories of old-fashioned justice. Shows where the authority to judge comes from.
