https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/85425.Final_Jeopardy
Final Jeopardy is book one of the Alexandra Cooper series by Linda Fairstein.
With the help of Detective Mike Chapman started to investigate her murder.
The readers of Final Jeopardy will follow the twist and turns in Alexandra Cooper and Detective Mike Chapman investigation to see who murdered Isabella.
I have read other books in the Alexandra Cooper series, and I enjoy them so much I decided to start at the beginning.
I enjoyed reading Final Jeopardy it provided me with background information on the main characters of the Alexandra Cooper series.
I thought, as a Law and Order SVU fan, this might be something I might like (except in book format).
So, the plot was rather mediocre, and although I did like the characters, it wasn’t enough to make me fully enjoy the book.
Now although this is realistic, to me it felt like it was added to fill in pages of the book.
It came to the point where I skimmed through most of the last third of the book, read the grand climax (which wasn’t that great in the first place) and then I was done.
Alex is told to stay out of the case, but she helps out her friend Mike Chapman, a detective with the NYPD with the investigation.I liked parts of Alex that we see her.
He is derogatory to the extreme and the only time I could even stand this character was when something came to light about someone close to Alex and Mike called their mutual friend Mercer and they came and hung out with her.
The case dealing with Alex's friend was nasty at times.
This is the first book in the series. I think Alexandra Cooper is one tough-as-nails woman. She's a sex crimes prosecutor and pulls no punches in the courtroom. Someone is out to get her. Is it a case of mistaken identity? I'm looking forward to reading more about her in the next book.
That went quickly. I should have realized that with so few chapters that it was abridged. The library has subsequent book in the series on audio, and this was good enough that I'll read more. I like the main protagonist Alexandra Cooper. It's pretty light, but not a bad mystery.
Naturally, she was far from dead, but knew at once from the reports that the body found was not her but her friend Isabella Lascar, a Hollywood star whom Alex had allowed to stay at her Martha’s Vineyard home.
The characterization of Alex and her colleagues were wonderful as well as the background one is exposed to concerning the legal workings of a top ADA prosecutor.
I loved the dialogs between Alex and her wisecracking colleague Mike Chapman who is a hoot in some ways to disguise a brilliant investigative mind.
Bottom line: A terrific thriller and a most enjoyable way to discover a new author whose I hope to read a lot more from.
Alexander Cooper is Manhattan’s top sex-crimes prosecutor who finds herself a part of a murderous tangled web.
A “friend” is murdered while staying at Alex’s home in the Vineyard and everyone at first suspects that Alex was the victim.
The main character comes across as a little rich girl at times, but she definitely is gutsy and someone to admire.
I found the first half of this book slow, perhaps because I did not have the time to sit down and let myself get into it or perhaps it was because the story seemed to take a while to gain momentum.
I will definitely look for the second book in the series.
Linda Fairstein mined her own experience as a top prosecutor in New York’s Sex Crimes Unit for this debut thriller, starring NYC prosecutor Alexandra Cooper.
The book opens with Alex reading her own obituary – a case of mistaken identity when she loaned her vacation home to a Hollywood star.This is definitely what I look for in this genre.
It’s a fast-paced mystery with plenty of suspects, interesting plot twists, a likeable main character, and some complicated relationships.
I was kept guessing right along with Alex and the detectives.
I definitely want to read more of this series.
The question is, was Isabella the target or was she just there at the wrong place and the wrong time and it was Alex that was the real target?There are several things that appeal to me when it comes to this series, first I like that Alex is a sex crimes prosecutor.
Alex has to with some close police friends try to find pout the truth and I have to say that it was an interesting book to read and the revelation towards the end of the book was, well fascinating.Final Jeopardy is a good solid book and a great start to the Alexandra Cooper series.
It's not everyday you read your own obituary..... Assistant DA Alex Cooper does just that but is it a tragic mistake or does someone want her dead?An easy to read crime novel, nice camaraderie between Alex and cops Mike and Mercer and a bit of New York history to boot. Not as gripping as Tess Gerritsen or early Patricia Cornwell but an entertaining enough read - I did guess the killer early on but that didn't spoil the story for me. Would definitely read more in this series to see how the characters develop.
What a fun experience to read a book written in 1996! The scene where the police had to Fed Ex photos to a police station in another state cracked me up! The mystery was solid. I definitely will start following Alex Cooper.
In the case of "Final Jeopardy", Linda Fairstein’s debut crime thriller, the author attempts to create a tough but sophisticated female SVU prosecuting attorney who juggles an ever increasing caseload as she tries to solve the brutal murder of her actress friend.
While this protagonist type promises appeal to reading fans ranging from Patricia Cornwell to John Grisham, Alexandra Cooper proves to be a heroine lacking any qualities that might endear her to such readers.
Sobbing for hours over a friend murdered by a shotgun blast, Alex then dishes on “the bitch” a few pages later.
Sadly, it seems that the only loser here is the reader who wasted time on this poorly edited unbelievable story.
This is the first in the Alexandra Cooper series, I read it and got hooked:"This critically acclaimed, explosive thriller is a book only prosecutor Linda Fairstein could write.
Patricia Cornwall knows the morgue; John Grisham knows the courtroom; but no one knows the inner workings of the D.A.'s office like Linda Fairstein, renowned for two decades as head of Manhattan Sex Crimes Unit.
Alexandra Cooper, Manhattan's top sex crimes prosecutor, awakens one morning to shoking news: a tabloid headline announcing her own brutal murder.
Was Isabella targeted by a stalker or -- mistaken for Alex -- was she in the wrong place at the wrong time?
I got really tired of all these asides into previous activities of minor characters.
The inner workings of the Sex Crimes Unit of the DAs office was interesting - up to a point.
There was just lots and lots of "filler" to wade through.The plot was good and the characters were pretty much OK, but reading through all the filler was boring and tedious.
It would have been much better confined to 200 pages instead of the 400 in my edition.I'm glad I finished it.
I'm glad I persevered.

Hello Alexandra Cooper! Looks like I'll be reading all 16 of these page-turning murder mysteries as fast as I can. A mix between John Grisham, law and order SVU, and the NYT society pages, I couldn't put this first book about power lady NY assistant district attorney and her police force squad hunting down an actress's murderer. Full of fun New York City haunts, it keeps you glued to the page for the romance and the mystery... next please!
What a fun read this book is! The main character, Alex Cooper, and several of the supporting cast are well described -- I feel like I know and like them. I was surprised that more about their relationships was not resolved at the end, but the book obviously left open many avenues of personal relationships for the series that followed. I can see why this novel remains a perennial favorite among Linda Fairstein fans!
A thrilling read with plenty of twists. In plenty of places I laughed out loud, and in plenty more I held my breath in suspension. As soon as I finished this book I set out to buy every copy of Linda Fairstein's novels they had at the nearest used bookstore.
Well, I'm all in for this series, especially when I need a break from my regular romance reads! Alexandra Cooper is a fabulous heroine! Check out my full review on Scandalicious Book Reviews:http://bit.ly/2CJwl6u
I started this series somewhere in the middle so I decided it was time to find out how Alex started her job. Not a bad book, but I like some of the later ones better where I learned a bit about NYC history which even though I grew up about 60 miles away from this great metropolis, I know little. I did learn a bit more about the backgrounds of the main characters in this one however.
Nice start and great audio!
I am always looking for a series to listen to these days... female protagonist, thriller.. sounds great.Alex Cooper is a NYC Assistant DA specializing in special victims work.After reading about Linda Fairstein it's clear she clearly knows the work!Give it a read!
This is the first book by this author that I have read, and I enjoyed it very much. It's an interesting mystery with characters both likable and most definitely not! Looking forward to reading more in this series.
Nov 2018. Discussing this with reader friends, I think this was the only book I tried to read and tossed it in disgust. Heroine is way TSTL (too stupid to live).
Never a dull moment!I enjoyed this book. This is the second time I have read it, by the time I remembered I had read it already, I was too committed to the story.
Dead, on the wooded road leading to Alex's summer home on Martha's Vineyard, is beautiful film star Isabella Lascar.
Somebody despised Isabella enough to trace her to Alex's Vineyard retreat.
Or the killer's intended victim was Alex, and Isabella was shot by mistake.
The hunt for the killer goes on, while Alex, with her characteristic intensity and humor, continues the gritty procedures of her daily life - witness and victim interviews, courtroom appearances, serial rape investigations, and late-night precinct meetings with cops and detectives.This is the first book in the Alexandra Cooper series.
The characters are strong and interesting, maybe the comparison in my mind from the series I'd just finished and loved might have made me more critical than I would have been otherwise.
Alexandra Cooper has an impressive work history, now she’s the Assistant District Attorney in charge of sex crimes in New York.
The police had no idea she’s lent her beach house to her friend and beautiful much loved actress Isabella Lascar.
Alex and her companion, Mike Chapman, a NY homicide detective, begin the investigation.
Add to that Alex’s passion in prosecuting sex crimes and you’re in for an interesting read.
(She was prone to mood swings and sudden bouts of whining, because how else would we know she was a woman, amirite??) Overall, this felt like a generic thriller that kept me entertained but didn't do much else.But yes, I do understand why people enjoy these books, and I think someone suggested this series for fans of SVU.
For myself, I do enjoy solid legal thrillers, and I'd be interested in trying other books that deal with a similar subject matter...I just wasn't impressed with this one.Readalikes:Kay Scarpetta series by Patricia Cornwell.
I started the series with this book because it is the first in the series and mostly enjoyed it.
It is the strong-female-character, inside-the world-of-law-enforcement, complicated-relationship-with male-colleagues type book.
There were a couple "Alex's support crew" characters who were off screen most of the book so I kind of forgot who each one was until the character turned up again.
Another reviewer compared this series to the Kay Scarpetta series by Patricia Cornwell.
I hope that's not true because I was considering reading another book in this series and I wouldn't read another book in that series even with a gun to my head.
I liked the main story, which involved Alex when a movie star friend was murdered on her property and Alex's boyfriend becomes a suspect, along with a few others.
What kept my attention, however, was the banter between Alex and co-worker Chapman (who looked out for her), and the insight we were provided into to a myriad number of other cases Alex (or her staff) were working on.
It was also fun reading a mystery novel that was written in 1996, before cell phones when pagers were being used, before advanced DNA technologies, and when work processing templates were first being utilized.
