https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/38465.Tell_My_Horse
Read in the 1990s. I was delighted by it, by the sheer novelty of reading an academic book by Their Eyes Were Watching God's creator. One day soon I'll re-read this because of Bitter Grounds.
[review posted on my blog too]I stumbled on a little masterpiece the other day, "Tell My Horse" by Zora Neale Hurston, in a rare bookshop.
Nobody gets it till they're gone, sometimes long gone.In view of the new appreciation, if not reverence for, this long ignored major Black American author, it's amazing to me no one has left a comment or review of this book.
Surely it will become a collectible and gain esteem among those who appreciate such things.Kudos to the publisher and regrettable that Zora Neale Hurston did not live to see her reputation rise and the value of her work vindicated.
i suspect this may have been behind her eventual adoption of right wing politics, as she did NOT see how this country treated most African Americans.Her level of comfort is obvious as she travels with apparent ease through the Black communities of the Caribbean.
This is one of the reasons that this book is so important for those of us interested in syncretic religions, especially those African religions that were forced into existence by Roman Catholicism's mandatory application to the slaves arriving in chains from West Africa.
A jumble of a book with diary, travelogue, political commentary, and ethnography mashed together.
I know it's not hip to not fawn over Zora Neale Hurston, but unless you really want to know about vodou in Haiti in 1937, I wouldn't recommend this book.
She deserves a significant amount of credit for her copious documentation of vodou ceremonies and songs, and for treating the religion with respect (as opposed to the sensationalist white writers of the time).
But the book is lacking in context for vodou practices, the political analysis is way off, and even though she is respectful, she herself does wander into generalizations when discussing Haitian-ness, and sensationalism when discussing zombies, cannibals, possessions, etc.

Hurston is black woman who had to make her own way in the world when she was fourteen.
Hurston was able to make connections with people in all levels of society.
She spends considerable time relating how women are perceived and treated, but Hurston must have found a way to garner the respect of men, no little feat in these surroundings.
For example, on page 102, Hurston writes, "The Hatian people are gentle and lovable except for their enormous and unconscious cruelty." She has no compunction to temper her opinions, and that speaks volumes about her self assurance and her unfailing will to be an authentic folklorist .
In the late 1930s Zora Neale Hurston won a Guggenheim fellowship to travel to Jamaica and Haiti to study the "cult of Voodoo." This hard-to-define book -- not quite ethnography, not quite travelogue, and not quite fiction -- is the result of that fellowship, and it's an unusual and deeply rewarding outsider's look at a part of the world the author says has too rarely been studied closely.
My feeling while reading this book was that it was fine, in the most middle-of-the-road sense possible. Is it nifty how Hurston blends personal narrative with personal observation with tales she's been told with un-sourced speculations, making a text that is as much an ethnographic object as it is an ethnography? Yes. But that sentence was more interesting to say just now than what this book was to read, for the most part. There are moments when the style is quite impressive; there are moments when the style just is.
When I use the word black I mean in the American sense where anyone who has any colored blood at all, no matter how white the appearance, speaks of himself as black."p 282: "...When a Jamaican is born of a black woman and some English or Scotsman, the black mother is literally and figuratively kept out of sight as far as possible, but no one is allowed to forget that white father, however questionable the circumstances of birth.
Once they were dead, and after that they were called back to life again.No one can stay in Haiti long without hearing Zombies mentioned in one way or another, and the fear of this thing and all that it means seeps over the country like a ground current of cold air.
Luckily, I found this book not only entertaining, but learned a few things too.Tell My Horse is about voodoo culture in Jamaica and Haiti; Hurston mainly focuses on Haiti.
One thing I picked up, most of my knowledge of voodoo comes from the media.
Starting to realize after reading this book, there is way more to voodoo than dolls and curses.
Maybe some who knows the country better will get more out of it than me.I think this book is worth the read, but I think you have to be really into the topic or into Hurston to fully enjoy this book.
Hurston's description of Vodou beliefs and rituals verges on romantic, but it is also well-informed, respectful and endearing.
Primarily, this is a book concerned with recording legend and relating it to ritual practice.
I can't help but see the relationship between Tell My Horse and Alice Walker's collections of essays/poems/stories.
The practice of combining the author's story telling and poetry with history's stories and the stories of fellow travelers is one that Hurston initiates in this work and Walker expands in the latter half of the century.
An interesting aside: while in Haiti researching Tell My Horse, Hurston composed the entirety of Their Eyes Were Watching God.
I initially bought this book over twenty years ago, made it halfway, and then let it sit on a shelf. Finally, many years later, I dusted it off and started anew. Sometimes age makes something much more accessible.This book is fascinating. It feels near and close, like I'm sitting in a room listening to Zora talk. So many details that much nonfiction lacks. This book feels real, human, experiential. I have dozens of passages marked for further contemplation.This book fed my imagination.
Might have finished this sooner but I was scared. Lol, I'm just serious *__*
I originally found mention of this book while I was reading through The World's Greatest Unsolved Mysteries' chapter on zombies.
There's one chapter on them, and a few mentions here and there, but given the time this book was written, I don't blame Hurston.
The appendix is full of the various songs and prayers she heard while she was down there, including sheet music where she actually remembered the tunes.Some of the songs and ceremonies were beautiful affairs.But dear lord, there were so many dead chickens by the time I finished the book.
She had a complicated life, filled with interesting stories and ideas, and it always shows in what she writes.
I'm no expert on Haiti, or Voodoo, so I can't attest to the authenticity of what she writes, but I do know what she wrote, she wrote well.
I'm not an old-hand academic texts, but from what I've read, and from reputation, it seems the ease and clarity and joy she writes with is a rare thing.I think this may come from her interesting views on race.
I think that's in part where the tenderness of her writing comes from, in this book.
But she did not look for it in the guise of the New Woman, she wanted to reconnect with the wily, wild conjure woman from the African Ur-cultures, the pagan witches of antiquity.Tell My Horse: Voodoo and Life in Haiti and Jamaica is divided into three parts.
Hurston respectfully introduces this practice as "a religion of creation and life," but then describes at length the "people who have been called back from the dead," in particular "this case of Felicia Felix-Mentor .
It's like in real life when someone tells you an elaborate story leading up to a particular event, and they give you all the details about each person involved along the way, but you don't know any of these people, so the details about each of them doesn't necessarily matter to you in regards to the overall theme of the story.My main takeaway from this book is that I apparently did not know anything accurate about Voodoo.
I gave this book three stars.
However, the writing throughout is superb, and despite the less interesting chapters, I am quite happy I read this book.
As I said, the section on voodoo is by far the most interesting; The bad news is the tedious chapters come first.
The good news is that the largest portion of the book is the section on voodoo.If you're interested enough in the subject matter to even be considering reading this book, or if you are a fan of Hurston's beautiful writing style - I would emphatically recommend this book.
definitely a good read if you're curious about voodoo practices.
haiti and jamaica are by far and away much more interesting places in regards to religion than our great country.from a postcolonial perspective, i had some major issues with the way in which ZNH imposes herself into the Maroon community.
her subversion of process makes me think that her selfishness holds her back from getting as close as she desired to be.
but, you must give way to the window she opens for those far too outside of this culture to ever know their intimacies.
it is a very intriguing look into voodoo and "telling one's horse."
Many, many, many chickens were killed in the research phase for the writing of this book. White chickens, black chickens, gray chickens and occasionally red chickens, sometimes in imaginatively gruesome ways. Zora Neale Thurston is better known as a novelist, most notably as the author of Their Eyes Were Watching God. This is the work of Thurston the folklorist and anthropologist and I found it surprisingly tedious despite what should have been some pretty spicy subject matter. I actually found the history of successive coups more interesting than the zombies, secret societies and cannibalism.
I might regret giving this book four stars. Certainly, there were some passages that troubled me- most notably Hurston's political commentary. Nevertheless I found that, for the most part, she wrote of Voodoo (Vodou) respectfully and with the purpose of dispelling Western myths that paint the religion as something other than that- a religion. I have a deep respect for Hurston and her love of the culture of the African Diaspora, which is why I don't too much mind forgiving her suspect political analysis.
Intoxicatingly written, "Tell My Horse: Voodoo and Life in Haiti and Jamaica" turns an unbiased eye on the religion and folklore of which Voodoo is the centerpiece. Hurston's well researched and experienced first hand book is a can't-put-it-down treat and I learned many things-- the truth about zombies, the poisonous efficacy of graveyard dirt, possession by the Gods, etc.-- all written in a lyrically arresting style. Brilliant.
This book is the fruit of Hurston's research on Vodou and folklore in Haiti. It is fascinating ... I read it in high school and now reading it again. Really interesting ... she hypothesizes about what is used to make zombis, which was later confirmed by Wade Davis in his research approximately 40 years later.
A first-hand account of the mysteries and horrors of voodoo. Based on Zora Neale Hurston's personal experiences in Haiti and Jamaica, where she participated as an initiate rather than just an observer of voodoo practices during her visits in the 1930s, this travelogue into a dark world paints a vividly authentic picture of ceremonies and customs and superstitions of great cultural interest.
Very interesting book. A first of its kind by way of anthropological forays into voodoo traditions in Haiti & Jamaica, but still there was a slight sense of U.S. paternalism even in Hurston's analysis. Surprising, but also interesting.
An outstanding and thorough first-hand book of research about the history and culture of Jamaica and Haiti; gives a great background on Haitian history, especially, and details the unique Haitian interpretation of Voodoo.
Zora Neale Hurston was an anthropologist as well as a writer. This book is an account of her initiation into voodoo in the early twentieth century.
Interesting travelogue and expose of voodooism in Jamaica and Haiti.
As for Voodoo, I'm truly perplexed by all the people claiming Hurston showed a very objective view of the practices and cultures she was describing.
(Or so I was led to believe.) However, that does not make her objective.
For example, how the christian influence added to voodoo and the two seem to coexist in a unique way.
At least from the voodoo perspective.Finally, you simply have to give props to Hurston for describing men the way men tend to describe women:He is a tall, slender black man around forty with the most beautiful hands and feet that I have ever beheld on a man.And what a beautifully polished Sam Brown belt on his perfect figure and what lovely, gold-looking buckles on his belt!In conclusion, unless you're studying Hurston, or voodoo, or Haiti, or Jamaica, this will mostly be an annoying read.
Ever since I first learned about Hurston’s anthropological work, I have wanted to read it, but I never had the chance to until a vacation I took to Chicago recently.
While I am unsure of wether everything Zora reports is a hundred percent accurate, as Ruth Behar and others have instilled a sense of skepticism in me regarding anthropological studies, Zola’s time in both Jamaica and Haiti reveals a richness to the elements of these cultures that I have glimpsed from other texts, but did not have a fuller understanding of.
Although some of the terminology may be outdated, such as Hurston’s use of voodoo instead of vodú/vodún, this book pairs exceptionally well with any text that deals with Afro-Caribbean identity.
