https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/387509.Houseboy
J'ai aimé ce livre plus que mon dernier livre d'Afrique subsaharienne, mais je n’ai toujours pas aimé ce livre. Cela m'a rappelé trop de « Things Fall Apart » de Chinua Achebe et de « Heart of Darkness » de Joseph Conrad, qui étaient des livres que je n'aimais pas. Je préfère lire sur les sociétés, les vies et les cultures africaines que sur les hommes blancs diaboliques. Le livre a attiré mon attention au début, mais a ensuite perdu mon attention à mi-parcours.Traduit en anglais:I liked this bo
Cela m'a rappelé trop de « Things Fall Apart » de Chinua Achebe et de « Heart of Darkness » de Joseph Conrad, qui étaient des livres que je n'aimais pas.
Le livre a attiré mon attention au début, mais a ensuite perdu mon attention à mi-parcours.
Traduit en anglais: I liked this book more than my last sub-Saharan African book, but I still didn’t enjoy this book.
It reminded me too much of Chinua Achebe’s “Things Fall Apart” and Joseph Conrad’s “Heart of Darkness”, which were books that I didn’t like.
He translated the book from its original language, Ewondo, stating that he "tried to keep the richness of the original language without letting it get in the way of the story itself."I enjoyed reading this book written in diary form because of the guileless storytelling: the book gives you such breathtaking story without trying to evoke a certain feeling from you, the reader.
Although it is such a short read, there was so much descriptive language within the dialogue and narrative from Toundi, that you end up knowing so much in just a few pages.
As Toundi revels more and more in the white man's secrets, he seals his won doom in the process.For example Toundi is initially fascinated with the wife of his "master" (more of this later) but soon realises that apart from being a mere human too despite her white colour, she is actually worthless and sleeps around extravagantly.
In the end our narrator finds himself in an awkward situation though in no way culpable: he is arrested by the system and viciously worked over...soon to die more or less like a dog.There is a memorable passage in this work that reflects how much Toundi initially "worshipped" the whites; when he first meets the wife of his master and she awkwardly shakes his hand.

The things that Toundi accepts as just a part of life as a black boy in Cameroon during this time period is sad and frustrating.
The malice and pettiness that impacts Toundi's daily life from a young age made me want to grind my teeth just reading the descriptions.
There is more that I would have like to have gotten in order for the story to come full circle.
I kind of understand why it ended the way it did because Toundi was unable to continue the diary, but man I would like to have gotten the last leg of the journey for Toundi.
) غريب هذا المنطق جعلني أتساءل هل هو منطق متوارث ومن أين جاءت الفكرة أم إن اللون الأسود تعود على الطاعة و يجب أن يكون تابعا للون الأبيض ومن له الحق في إتخاذ ا مثل هذا القرار أعني أن يكون الأبيض هو السيد ووكأنه أصل الألوان لا أظنها سوى مجرد بدعة اخترعها الرجل الأبيض !نعود للحكاية تصل زوجة القومندان وهي فتاة جميلة يقول عنها الفتى في يومياته ( سرت في جسدي انتفاضة للمس يدها الصغيرة الرطبة , حياتي امتزجت بحياتها مع تلك اللمسة ابتسامتها منعشة كماء الربيع ونظراتها دافئة كدفء شعاع شمس قبل الغروب , يغمرك بضوء يدفء أعماق قلبك إنني أحس بالخوف ..
Book 29 of the African Writer's Series depicts the despotic, cruel treatment of native Cameroonians in French Cameroun, the former League of Nations's mandate.
The perspective is that of Toundi.
The book is in the form of a diary although the reading is fluid like a novel is.
Eventually, the solitary Commandant hires him as his Houseboy.
The former is rough but eventually softens his attitude to Toundi and approves of him.
After a long while, the Commandant's beautiful wife arrives and settles in the house.
Initially unbeknown to the Commandant, her secret tryst becomes the beginning of the end for Toundi.
Tragic.Toundi - the main character (the houseboy), is naïve of the realities of his world in the French colony of Cameroon.
While he's is a good natured boy with a pure heart, the French exploitation of native Cameroonians cause the demise of Toundi (this isn't a spoiler, trust me!).
This book really highlighted how fearful French colonialists were of native Cameroonians and Black Africans in general.
Toundi's innocence gave this novel so much humor.
The ways the natives spoke about the French gave me some good laughs as well.
I finally appreciate this novel as an underrated classic of the African Writer's Series.*full review on africanbookaddict.com soon!
قراءتي للرواية قديمة لكن اذكر انها كانت ممتعة وتستحث القاريء على إكمالها من دون مقاطعة أو إبطاء! ربما كانت من أول الأعمال التي قرأتها من الأدب الإفريقي المظلوم عربيا! ء
A journal written in Ewondo, the indigenous language of the Maka, translated by its founder into French. Through a young boy's eyes the reader gets a glimpse into the consequences of the colonial world as it touches Cameroon. Pay close attention to notions of propriety, whiteness, violence, sight and knowledge, and secret forms of resistance (through music, feigning understanding, feigning incomprehension, etc.) This novel is very written with subtlety, making it a compelling and challenging read.
This book was originally published in 1956, when Cameroon was still a French colony, and no doubt caused a stir at the time and has historical value for that reason.Eh, I could give some analysis of this book, the simple and abrupt writing style (at least in translation), the story that focuses on the day-to-day activities of the white employers more so than the narrator's inner life or feelings, but it boils down to another "this book has some academic value, but otherwise isn't likely to be of much interest unless you're from the area" review.
i read this book as part of my English literature in school, and i must say that even though the idea of colonialism is not a new concept, it is quite well written.
the story is quite touching and touches the concept of colonialism and its effect on our lives, but to me it was more a story about being interested in a world or things that seem perfect from afar but i have no experience with.
basically what i get from this book is that no world is perfect, which am sure is commonly known by a lot of people.
There are a lot of reasons to like books.
Some have great prose.
It is a combination of several of these, not necessarily an achievement in one, that makes me feel compelled to give this novel four stars.
Books like this aren't always fun to read.
The dark absurdity of white interference in Toundi's world becomes readily apparent and deeply shocking.
Toundi's voice is clear and concise, and for that reason the world can't help but feel realistic, and that realism in turn fuels thought, empathy, and understanding.
Deals with the issue of colonialism in Africa, and the greatest and most tragic contradiction there is-young, educated, Christian black men (and women) struggling to be like their colonizers, the ones who turned their lives upside down & erased their culture - in this case, the French.
The story is in the format of a diary , told from the perspective of Toundi, a young Cameroon who runs away from his abusive father in a tribal setting opting to grow up in the church around whites, abandoning his family and culture in hopes of making something else of his life.
It's a first-person diary account of the boy's life from his father's house to the final days.
The story of a Cameroonian boy during the height of colonization who thought life would be better with the colonizers than under his father's strict rules.
Honestly, it's one of those books that, as a Black woman, you read and realize that you have been socialized in such a way (as a result of colonial/slavery/racial issues touched on in the book) that your interactions with other races will always be scripted in some manner.
That advice is what many people of color consider life's script now.
"إلا مَ يؤول العالم"الرواية من اروع ما قرأت , نحن نجهل افريقيا تقدم رواية جانبا من صراع عاشته افريقيا مع الأوروبين.
سؤال الهوية فيها حاضر بشكل موجع من الجمل القاتلة في الرواية ذلك السؤال الموجع:" أخي ما نحن؟؟ ما نحن الرجال المسمون فرنسيين و صار صوته يقطر ألماً"تعرض الممراسات الاستعمارية البيضاء ضد الافارقة و ذلك الامتهان لكراماتهم و حقوقهم و اعتبارهم أقل ذكاءاً و انسانية من الأوروبي الأبيض , تعرض أيضاً دور الكنيسة في افريقيا.
في الرواية الكثير مما يستحق الاقتباس لكن صعوبة الاختيار قيدتني تستحق القراءة بشدة بعد إنهائها لا أجد ما أقوله إلا ما قاله تاوندي " إحساس صقيع يجتاحني"!
French colonials could be awfully nasty.Since I knew this already, I didn't come away with any new insights from this book -- nor was I especially moved by the prose. Perhaps Oyono's work almost seems cliche nowadays, which is certainly not his fault. As one of the founders of the negritude movement, Oyono deserves props for being one of the early writers of the colonial experience, from a native perspective. I do wish that the female character was better developed. She was simply nasty, rather than a fully-fleshed character who might have some redeeming qualities.
سيدي رجل مكتنز لساقيه عضلات ضخمة كساقي بائع متجول ، هو نوع الرجل الذي نسميه جذع الماهوغوني ، فجذع هذه الشجرة غاية في القوة ، ولا تنثني أبدا للعاصفة ..و أنا لستُ عاصفة .. إنني ذلك الشيء الذي يطيع______عن إفريقيا و الاستعمار و عبودية الطاعة , عن رئة العالم السوداء الدامية
I could probably like this book, if I didn't have to read it for class.
http://maryokekereviews.blogspot.com....
Brilliant little novel about French exploitation of the Cameroon people. So well written. Can use in library and as book report choice for African literature course. Painful but funny.
باب على الكتابات الأفريقية " المنسية" عمدًا ..!
I liked how easy going the guy was, no whining here
I read this book when I was sixteen. It is a beautiful soul stirring piece that captures colonial Africa in its real form. An absolute masterpiece.
Binne critique implicite de l'ex système colonial
The diary, referred to as ‘Exercise Book’ belongs to a man called Toundi, who is found unconscious close to the frontier in the Spanish zone, and who later dies.The story takes form as the Frenchman reads Toundi’s diary, although the former is never mentioned again in the book.
When father Gilbert dies in an accident, Toundi is taken to serve as the Commandant’s Houseboy, where he witnesses a sordid affair between the Commandant's wife and The Prison-Director.Toundi is compelled to act as a go-between for the two.
It is at this point Toundi decides to escape to Spanish Guinea.Houseboy has some really witty lines, but the story is quite sad and touching.
When he dies the narrator is given two exercise books which make up the diary of Toundi who has been houseboy in the home of the French commandant of a Cameroon town.
In part one Toundi escapes his brutal father's beatings (a porcupine trapper) to a local priest where he acts as houseboy before ending up with the local French Commandant in what appears to be a good position.
The ending is brutal as justice is effected summarily without any recourse to a rule of law, the natives viewed as lower than low , but what makes this book a good book is that it is suffused with humour of Toundi and his friends which contrasts with the inhumanity of their rulers, the French.
I'm not going to pretend that I have extensive historical knowledge of the colonization of Cameroon, but for those with an interest in postcolonial literature, this should be on your "must read" list.
I first read it about ten years ago in one of my undergrad courses on African novels, but I decided to reread it as one of the works in translations I'll be teaching for my IB English course next year.
While the end did not feel as tightly constructed as the beginning, I think it rightfully deserves inclusion in any postcolonial literature course.
I think the part about this novel that struck me the most was that while it managed to be sad and subtle, in terms of storyline and characters (esp the white characters), it combined that sad, quiet, subtlety with these casual little asides of brutality.
(hide spoiler)]This isn't related to anything else, but I just want to put here that I often think about something my friend once said about 12 Years A Slave, about how unconvincing and weakly liberal it was that they had Solomon strung up in the yard in full view of the slaveowners' house.
Oyono's writing style is simple and poetic at times, I loved the form through which the story is told- a diary and I particularly loved the way the main character's view of his condition and the condition of his people (Africans) evolves from naïveté to realism.
It is truly remarkable the way the author communicates this naïveté from the houseboy who at first is fascinated and even in admiration of his masters- despite how badly they treat him and his people.
