https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/372392.Briefing_for_a_Descent_Into_Hell
He is delusional, and spends most of the time on the verge of remembering things, before being overcome by the stories he believes are real.
Lessing apparently thought the content of 'Briefing for a Descent Into Hell' so startling, that she was impelled to add an explanatory afterword, a two‐page parable about the ignorance of certain psychiatrists at large London teaching hospitals.
The early parts in the novel where Charles describes his incredible fantastical voyage, where he gets to fly on the back of a huge white bird and witness the appearance of 'rat-dogs', were enjoyable enough, and weather dealing with the real or the unreal it's all powerfully written.

I don’t exaggerate when I am saying that I felt like quitting reading this book several times before I became quite enraptured by it.
Most of them were as thick, heavy and unredeemed as the bulk of stone and earth that had no crystalline air kneaded into it.” While she is talking about human beings this way as seen from above, she is the one saying that “in the great singing dance, everything linked and moved together.” Even planets and gods admit this.
Lessing kneads a story about Gods, planets and human beings.
The Nobel Committee, in one of their famously ambiguous statements, defined her contribution as that of the “epicist of the female experience, who with scepticism, fire and visionary power has subjected a divided civilisation to scrutiny".I guess that makes sense.
In those two books Lessing certainly took on the female experience, she certainly was sceptical, she certainly had a visionary power, and she certainly scrutinized her characters and the world that they lived in.It is harder to be certain that she is doing the same in this book, a 1971 Man Booker Prize Nominee (which she lost to fellow Nobel Laureate V.S. Naipaul).Briefing for a Descent Into Hell is unlike any book that I have ever read before.
Some crazed english teacher assigned this to our class in 10th grade. I loved the book and have re-read it many times. I think this may have been one of the first adult books that turned me on to reading
Immediately we're drawn into his (already debunked) subjective reality, which removes (the pre-debunking does, that is) much of that excitement of trying to figure out what exactly is going on.
Soon, his (interior) journey takes on enough concrete detail and sense of place to teansport me despite this, at least until it starts to develop that excessively domineering allegorical sensation, perhaps with a little bit of that piercing-of-the-veil and ultimate reality that I tend to find a bit trying.
The questions of what is the truer reality and who is more crazy (individual or society) begin to emerge, but these aren't exactly earth-shatteringly unique treatments of so-called insanity.
Bardzo podobał mi się styl pisania Lessing i jej koncepcja na całą książkę, jednak wiem, że to nie będzie historia, która zostanie ze mną na zawsze. Była przyjemna i fascynująca do przeczytania, ale prawdopodobnie nigdy do niej nie wrócę, nawet w myślach.
All a methaphor for something, but what I dont know.Then we get into the investigation of who he is, resolved through being introduced to his wife, lovers, friends, work colleagues.
He is a professor of greek and some of his early hallucinations are linked to the histories that his friend supply.The professors condition improves and he is off given lucid representations of his involvements in the war - all of which are dismissed by the colleagues that worked with him.He then is faced with the choice of being moved to a new long term facility or taking electro shock therapy....
You will be like a drowning person who drowns his rescuer, so violently will you struggle in your panic terror.” At this point I started to realise that the madman in the hospital who’d been raving about his experiences lost at sea and then on an island and finally after entering a mysterious Disc or Crystal which takes him on a journey probably most similar to the one David Bowman takes when he enters the Star Gate in 2001 could quite possibly be an alien—or at least an alien consciousness—struggling towards self-awareness.
My second Lessing book and what a one to pick.
Who do you believe, what is real and what is a hallucination?
In the end we are still left guessing is the amnesiac cured or was he a amnesiac.
This book was shortlisted got the 1971 Booker Prize.
The plot revolves around a man found wandering on Embankment in London with no memory and apparently hallucinating.
He is taken to a hospital for treatment by two doctors and we embark via the patients imagination a voyage at sea, space craft, abandoned cities and the viewpoints of Greek Gods.
I feel differently about works of art that fall into this category because I was in a coma for a month due to a freak illness in my 20s, and during that time lived in a futuristic cube-shaped world that technically doesn't exist, but I felt time passing, had a job, knew people there, etc.
Heavy stuff, and this is one of the only books that I can think of that works with that idea (if I'm missing any books, please recommend them!) It seems to be a more common trope in movies and TV shows.
The tale of a man found wandering in London having lost is memory.
The first part of the book seems to be about about what is going on in his mind and is about the wanderings of a man in a fantastical world.
The roles of the two doctors and the nursing staff are interesting and they follow the psychological theories of the time.We learn the man is an academic who teaches amongst other things Greek mythology and this illuminates the earlier part of the book (The influence of The Odyssey is strong)In the second part of the book we meet his wife and various other friends and colleagues and learn something of his past.Trying not to give too much away the man has a choice (via treatment) as to whether to retrieve his memory or to stay with his new reality, which is the only one he knows.
Hell as in Hades as in the land of the living dead, a place of stasis.
Change in the form or a re-imagined life, or liberation, is not an option for Professor Charles Watkins because he is in the care--at the mercy--of doctors whose perceptions are easily, readily handicapped by the vast array of labels they so easily apply to Professor Charles Watkins.
Watkins arrives at an English hospital as a lost soul, a man who has lost his memory and, therefore, his identity.
What should be a collaboration toward healing becomes a competition as the clock ticks toward Watkins's inevitable release from the institution.Can we be ourselves?
Having heard so much about how good this is and having my expectations raised so high, there was every chance that this could've been a let down.
Lessing has written a tale that it utterly gripping from start to finish through all the strange unusual flashbacks and visions and all the real heartfelt moments as Watkins is torn between his old and new realities.
As his doctors try and cure him and his family and friends are brought in to help, the questions Watkins' raises about them, their aims and society as a whole are as poingant now as they were then, possibly even more so.
While it is clearly a more challenging read, Lessing's work is incredibly brilliant.
The beginning of the novel, when Watkins is at the height of his madness, and crippled by poorly prescribed medication, his thoughts are difficult to follow and become quite grotesque and violent at times.
To have written such scenes, though, is truly a marvel, and this makes me want to read more biographical information related to Lessing.
For those in the profession, I found the madness of Watkins to be quite revealing.
Lessing is quite revolutionary and bold, and I admire her work here.
Lessing has some cool ideas in this book, but the execution is sloppy and it has not aged terrible well. There are some really good parts in the second half, the Yugoslavia section especially, but the first 200 pages or so were a clunky slog.
I imagine it is supposed to combine some sort of science fiction with a psychological analysis of mental illness, but it just came across as uninspired drivel to me.I read this book over the course of about two years because I just simply could not force my way through it.
This might have affected how I feel about the book, but truthfully, had the story any merit, it wouldn't have taken me two years to read it.
A full half of the book is taken up by a stream of consciousness monologue by the main character, a man who is suffering from amnesia/schizophrenia and has been admitted to a psych ward.
For the first half, despite the fact that I was enjoying the parallel stories (man lost at sea in his mind, and the same man in a mental institution with doctors trying to figure out his deal), I had a hard time maintaining interest in the long passages of stream of consciousness.
I could see how they were appropriate to show the Professor's confusion and loneliness in his mental journey, but that didn't keep me awake when I was reading the book before bed.
The section made up of correspondence between the Professor, his doctors, and the people from his life was fascinating, drawing in all these different realities.
But unfortunately, sometimes there were long narrations I really couldn't place where its leading to, so I got bored.
The beginning was interesting with giving some insight to the patient’s madness and revealing the disconnection between reality for sane and insane.
But when he started on long narratives of his imaginary island life, most of the time I failed to relate incidents to any sensible things, probably, I missed a lot due to wavering in less interesting parts.
Then, as his real life and his opinions and views as a sane man was revealed, I could identify bits and pieces from reality flashing in his madness.
Well, I made it almost exactly half-way through. While I love the title and appreciated the experimental and very free-form approach, I was neither entertained nor illuminated by this. I'm glad it exists, perhaps other will enjoy its mysteries and fantasy/sci-fiesque new-aginess, but it left me cold. I was impressed it was concerned with global warming (as early as 1971!) but, when the goddess Venus called science just another human religion, well, that was that for me.
She has some lovely phrasings and poetic leanings, which makes for beautiful and lyrical reading. However, the first half of the book is quite difficult to understand, and I was not satisfied with the conclusion. It certainly had promise, and perhaps I'll like it better on a re-read.
I guess in the time of the book, the word "neurodiversity" hadn't been coined yet.
But this book, with its experimental form and somewhat taboo topic, reads like a compassionate but tragic apology for neurodiversity.
It shows the inherent oddity of the Normal: that it is a double bind, forbidden to contravene but at the same time impossible to comply with.
I guess this is part of the amorphous metafiction parallel to the text (if you read the book you'll see what I mean by "parallel") -- to heck with the walls that divide genres, whether they're genres of literature or of humans.
to be reviewed
Maybe it's because the way such things were romanticized started with how we needed to reform the treatment of mental illness, which is urgently important, but we can't do that by romanticizing the experience of the illnesses themselves.I think you can see where I'm going with all this, but I'll spell it right out: This is another one of those books where someone suffers from a debilitating mental illness that is portrayed as a breakthrough rather than a breakdown, sees through the Lies That Are Our Lives In This Soulless Modern Society, but (view spoiler)[is shocked (literally) back to normalcy and goes back to an anodyne little life with his wife and kids, what a tragedy, what a loss for all of us, the end.
I read this book about 8 years ago - no, that's not true .
I partially read this book about 8 years ago.
And it does describe a person in a state of amnesia - from my research so far I would surmise that Watkins has global amnesia, also called fugue, in which he has no recollection of who he is or of any of the people he knows, and is in a state of confusion.I skimmed over the elaborate 'adventures' that Watkins describes as Watkins himself held no interest for me.
I know that we write in shorter paragraphs now than we did 40 years ago, but even so.
This novel takes place (mainly) in a hospital ward where Professor Charles Watkins has suffered from loss of memory.
The first part is mainly the dreams (or perhaps they are really buried memories inaccessible consciously) of Charles: a sailor whose companions have been taken by a "crystal", and then his journey to an island that very metaphorical and poetic happenings there and then back to a semi-reality in the hospital.
Yet I still rather enjoyed this book on the conscious and unconscious and the ideas that Lessing instills, of family and of the ecological effects humanity has, and the psychological ware-and-tare that happens over time to people.
Se siete arrivati fin qui state tranquilli, ce l'avete quasi fatta!Al viaggio seguono considerazioni di mitologia classica e una riunione di creature celesti, un briefing tra gli dèi noti della classicità che consegnano al protagonista senza nome un messaggio.E poi lui nasce.Il protagonista nasce.Il lettore è riuscito a scavallare la prima metà del libro e si chiede cosa diamine stia leggendo, non senza però aver provato almeno una decina di volte il desiderio di mollare tutto, mandare a quel paese gli dèi, la Lessing e tutti i premi Nobel della storia.Tra le mie note leggo "Mai più un premio Nobel!" Leggo "Ma davvero c'è qualcuno che ha letto tutto questo libro?
A rather disturbing book. But even many years after I've read it, I still think about some of the books themes and of certain passages. That itself tells you there is a lot going with this book. Give it a try -- and resist the urge to stop reading until you get to the end, however tempting it might be -- and only then you can answer the question "What the h*ll did I just read??" .
It's a truly noble attempt to "walk in the shoes" of a mentally ill person: incredibly courageous & remarkable, since Lessing wrote this in 1971!
I know this firsthand from experience with several family members, my late mother included.Nevertheless, and probably because I simply understand little about the causes of the "mechanics" of mental illness, the first half of the book was almost totally incomprehensible to me.
And, yes, I was tempted several times simply to set the book aside.
I'm glad that I didn't, because the last third of the book was helpful and, at times, inspiring.
I'm one of the ones who found this laborious.
There is a hint of an interesting idea in the late-middle section that didn't end up as developed as I had anticipated, but regardless the hint and the interest were not enough to compensate for the truly laborious opening sequences.I've tried to read Lessing before (notably The Golden Notebook) and will have to conclude that her style is just not something I appreciate.
(And they aren't too hard, so to speak--I read Georges Perec, for God's sake--they just don't go anywhere).
