https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/89232.Augustus_Caesar_s_World
At about halfway through, I now know that I really enjoy Genevieve Foster's storytelling style of relating history, following multiple notable people from one period and intertwining their stories. Augustus Caesar has never seemed like a real living, breathing person to me before, but in this account I feel I know him, to say nothing of Virgil, Mark Antony, Cleopatra, and Herod. I previewed this book to decide if I wanted my children to read it as part of their history lessons, but I'm walking away looking forward to more of Foster's writing for myself!

Highly readable, I thought.
Her religious stuff is wonky a lot -- her version of what Gautama Buddha taught is much closer to the modern Americanized version than what he actually said -- and she niceifys a lot (Tacitus wouldn't recognize her Livia).
Aside from religious stuff, and despite the fact that the book was written in the 1940s, the only serious historical blooper I caught was the "peaceful Mayans" -- the Mayans are a lot closer to the Aztecs than most archaeologists believed back then.So not very good on the comparative religions front, but terrific as history.
This is an extraordinary book.
The way it presents history makes it ideal for using with children, but it is a good crash course for highschoolers or adults who want to brush up on their history of the Roman Empire as well.
Unfortunately, though so adept at weaving history, Foster can't help but speak nonsense whenever she tries to explain or talk about various religions.
She does this with Buddhism, Christianity, Roman religion, Confucianism, and others.
So though the book is great for historical content, I can't give it a full 5 stars.
Great primer on world history during the first century. Age appropriate content for grade school children. A great refresher to create or revive an interest in Roman History. Love all of Foster's books for this purpose. There are no footnotes or bibliography, so if you question her accuracy, you will need to "google".
Reading this book in 5th or 6th grade was absolutely the best history experience I ever had in elementary school. Made me so much more confident tackling Shakespeare's Roman plays in High School. Best History Book I Ever Read!
This was a part of my child’s history for Rome to the Reformation this year.
We all really enjoyed it, even my pre k kid, although there were some gruesome parts for her.
My 4th grader says “I really enjoyed this book, and it is my second favorite history book.
I learned something new every time we read it, either about something I already knew a little about or about something I had never heard of.” We used this as a read aloud and the kids looked forward to it coming out everyday.
Only downside, it is long at 325 pages as a read aloud.
I loved. this book. This is how I learned history. Mom would read it out loud.
A fabulous, sweeping view of the world during the time of Augustus Caesar. I love how this book set the stage for the birth of Christianity, how it addressed all the religions of the world in their search for light and hope. Really fascinating and a pleasure to read.
Genevieve Foster's writing is easy to understand and digest, and her presentation of history in narrative form definitely holds the reader's attention, while her drawings add charm and interest. A fascinating look at what was going on not only in the Roman Empire, but in other civilizations during the life of Augustus Caesar. This book was written for young adults but I learned a lot from it as an adult.
It contains a (sketched) family tree of the line of Augustus Caesar, which we copied and referenced often to keep the stories straight.
(see the final chapters of the book for this)2.
The portions regarding Julius and Augustus were engaging and written in an easy, "living-book" style.3.
The book describes the superstitions and mythology of the time, but also treats the Bible as just-another-superstition.
Just a heads up to folks who follow a Biblical worldview, this book at times (loudly) equates the Bible to a fairy-tale.2.
So much so that we often lost sight of the main story of Augustus himself.3.
It involves everything from politics to religion to the military, so it feels like your getting a rounded view to their lives.
The reason I give four stars is because some of the religious aspects weren't totally accurate.
I only know for sure about Christianity, so I don't know if the rest of the religions covered were accurate.
The author sometimes had a cynical view of Jesus and the disciples, and sometimes hinted that the Bible has errors or is exaggerated.
In spite of four stars, I definitely recommend this book to whomever would like more knowledge of the Roman world, particularly through a Roman point of view.
I love these books but two things bug me 1) the extensive use of passive voice actually has me wondering if these books are actually the source of this problem in my kids' writing! and 2) I really wish she included notes so that I knew where her information comes from. As it is, I find myself often wondering which parts are verifiable fact and which are not so much. Still, as far as middle grade world history goes, these are fabulous reads.
As a youth-oriented introduction to the history of the early Roman Empire (with handy context about what was happening in other parts of the world at the same time), it's decent. As a historical artifact, with elegant mid-century illustrations, maps and timelines created by the author, it's wonderful.
Excellent, engaging and globally-scoped history text. Ideal for upper level/advanced elementary students and middle school students as history curriculum. Also just a fun read for adults. The illustrations are gorgeous and informative. Highly recommend, especially for folks who normally find history "dry" or boring.
2.5? Better than I expected. Skips around quite a bit covering different aspects of history. A good read aloud since it was in narrative form.
Seems like it's written for a kid. It's not a bad kid's book if it is one, but I don't think that was intended.
Enjoyable to read, and well written.
One of the best history books I’ve ever read! Both interesting and informative! It felt like reading a novel!
a bit tedious, but informative. Read it to my kids for homeschool
I enjoyed reading this history book. It was age appropriate for the boys (8 and 11 yrs old), and digestible for them.
Good overview of the world during, and shortly after Augustus Caesar's life. I disagreed with some of the author's opinions in the book, but overall found it an interesting and well-done history.
read this to my children as part of our history lessons. It was easy to read and they were able to understand it and what was going on during this time in history (3rd and 5th grade).
I don't have time now but want to review more thoroughly later.
I started with great expectations based on good reviews I'd heard of Foster, but I was dissatisfied with some negatives, although she did write well--thoroughly and in an engaging manner.
(I am a conservative Baptist.) And even though she doesn't mind going back in time to explain other cultures and histories of those other peoples, her slice of Roman history was very selective.
She barely talked about Julius Caesar, which is just unforgivable IMO if you're going to pretend to cover ancient Roman history.
In Augustus Caesar's World, Genevieve Foster uses this technique to weave together multiple cultures touched by the Roman Empire during the period from 31 B.C. to 14 A.D. Children will come away with a better grasp on who the major players, events, and religious beliefs than they would from a fractured study of multiple books and time lines.
Adults too will find that Foster has presented them with a view of history that is coherent and vivid.
As an introduction to history, the book does an excellent job of whetting the appetite for more rigorous study later.
Up until now, she hasn’t been a great fan of reading history, but this book was interesting enough for her that she would request that I read it.Foster’s writing style is a little stilted, but the story doesn’t suffer for it.
In addition, the last part of the book devotes several chapters to the happenings of other cultures far removed from the Mediterranean, including a bit of Mayan and Chinese history.
Full of war, love, politics, monument building, religion, storytelling, and culture clashes, Augustus Caesar's World was, overall, a very interesting read.
Augustus Caesar’s World Book Review:Augustus Caesar’s World is a delightful read for the curious soul.
Genevieve Foster does an exquisite job of telling history as a flowing story.
She also does a lovely job of including the diverse stories, cultures, and religions of many unique nations.
Foster writes in a very unbiased style when it comes to religion.
Which I prefer in a history book.
Understandably, since 330 pages is not nearly enough to completely describe all the history and religions, that are touched on in this book.
Augustus Caesar’s World was a refreshing read for me this term.
It is written in narrative form to make it more interesting to children.
As a result, I think the author takes liberties with some of the facts.
For students of the Bible, the author provides some helpful information about people and events that provide more insight to Biblical events.
The book was written in 1947.
The author seems to use the King James Version of the Bible when she quotes it.
I had to use a magnifying glass a time or two.
The first half of the book was more interesting than the second half which bogged down in the various world religions of the time.
this book covers the world during the time period of Octavian/Augustus Caesear's world, (just as the title says).
The struggle Octavian had with Antony to follow in Julius's footsteps.
The book covers: Virgil, Pythagoras, Socrates, Plato, and Aristotle, the Mayans, Lao Tzu, Confucius,and Buddha, Tiberius, and the German tribe that killed three legions of Romans.
After that Augustus decided to leave the Germans to become civilized at their own pace.
(they continued to fight among each other, but there is debate as to whether the first two world wars would have happened if they had become civilized under the Romans.) The book ends with the life and death of Jesus of Nazareth.
Genevieve Foster wrote "horizontal history" so that she not only covered events in Rome during Augustus Caesar's life, but also around the world surrounding his lifetime.
So the narrative would often jump from the life of the Caesars in Rome to the life of Jesus Christ to the Palestinian Jewish Zealots and other events that impacted history during that time.My favorite sections were those that talked about the life of the caesars and their families.
I just found them fascinating.I do not agree with Foster's worldview, but she did a wonderful job of summarizing history during the time of 44 BC to 14 AD in a way that was interesting and engaging.
