https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/74952.Angel_Sanctuary_Vol_1
I'm just going to review this first volume instead of adding every single one, though I've read the entire series and it only gets better.One of the great epics of our time. Totally irreverent and creatively blasphemous. Incest, angel sex, astral drugs, divine tattoos, a psychotic God, aborted tentacle-babies, apocalyptic battles, sword magic, nuns with uzis... and Satan is drop-dead sexy.
I shall give you the most exquisite nightmare. This review is for the series, volumes 1-20. There may be spoilers (but I'll try not to include them), and there WILL be a lot of pictures!This series was quite a ride. I can't believe I didn't make it a point to finish it sooner, having only made it to volume 11 years ago. Well, I rounded up the rest of the volumes and buckled down and now I'm done.First, here's a picture I drew of Kira a long time ago. He's one of my favorite characters, which sh
Well, I rounded up the rest of the volumes and buckled down and now I'm done.First, here's a picture I drew of Kira a long time ago.
Setsuna Mudo, an idiot boy in love with his sister, is the latest reincarnation of Organic Angel Alexiel.
He and his friends get caught up in the war between Heaven and Hell, with their connections to each running deeper than they ever could have dreamed.Unfortunately, Setsuna is the most annoying boy on heaven and earth.
ONE OF MY ALL TIME FAVORITE SERIES! Even though I don't think the first volume is all that awesome, still Miss Kaori Yuki, whom I worship night and day, quickly improved a great deal in the later volumes!
It is only when two demons appear and make his life an even bigger mess that Setsuna comes to realise all his misfortunes might be linked to the fallen angel Alexiel.I would definitely consider Angel Sanctuary a great and classic manga.
In addition to the incestuous relationship between Setsuna and his sister Sara, there are drugs and alcohol, gruesome murders and mutilations, rape, child murder, a twisted view on religion and god, suicide, characters whose minds turn grotesque and obsessive - the list goes on.
Although I would consider the plot a strong point of this work, it is yet the characters who seem to turn it into something special.
I disliked it completly. I seriously couldn't get past Chapter 2. The characters were annoying, the art was a mess ... it just didn't appeal to me.
You can tell that the author doesn't have a brother. The "love" between the siblings is so strange O.o
This reviews stands for the whole series.
It may start out simple (and perhaps even slightly amateur) but it quickly grows into an all-encompasisng series that covers every moral and philisophical issue on the spectrum, all without seeming cheap.
With a strikingly original fantasy world and "Inferno" level-depth (which is clearly a major inspiration here), this series made me laugh, cringe, gawk, and FEEL.
I have no idea how the author juggled all of this and still made it work and without having it fall apart as the series progressed.
But angel sanctuary!
Ive read all of them and well they are amazing.
First off Kaori Yuki is so talented and a pure genius, the plot is so mind blowingly epic it can be complicated at times but it never fails to amaze, the art work is beautiful and so detailed it makes me wonder if Kaori Yuki is actually human.
One down side of reading angel sanctuary is that frankly it will ruin all other manga for you, nothing compares to it in the slightest.
And if your not yet convinced angel sanctuary is amazing so many characters in it are down right hot!
A challenging, interesting storyline with some really great characters, but the plot is So Epic that it's hard to keep everything straight.
Still, the art is gorgeous, and Setsuna's flailing attempts to understand his past and come to terms with his not-so-platonic feelings for his sister are intriguing enough at this point for me to stick around for a few more volumes.
FYI, the story involves a lot of violence and quite a bit of focus on Setsuna's and Sara's incestuous relationship, so if either of those things squick you, be forewarned.
(I'd still recommend keeping an open mind and giving this one a try, though.)
Buoni i disegni, anche se presentano alcuni dei ‘difetti’ tipici degli shojo, anziché essere ben definite le vignette si mescolano un po’ per creare una sorta di opulento effetto romantico.
Per non parlare dei suoi interventi esplificativi che, per quanto chiarificatori, sembrano realizzati da un’adolescente emotiva.Eppure la storia è riuscita a prendermi (richiamando piacevolmente per certi versi “I Cavalieri dello Zodiaco - Lost Canvas”), una lotta che si preannuncia senza esclusione di colpi - come abbiamo già potuto constatare dalla condotta dagli angeli - con potenze divine all’opera, e gli esseri umani mina vagante.
It has forbidden and taboo themes that may be unusual and strange to other readers not familiar with Japanese manga and culture.
So I never got to reading it /read manga summaries instead and satisfied myself with the really short and incomplete animation OVA.
We got angels, demons, reincarnation, angst, etc.
The first volume tried to include some lightheartedness but I'm not sure it really jives well coz everything does seem pretty tragic for our main characters and even the demons and angels.
It was a pretty fast read since it's a comic and now I'm off to volume 2.
I'm just forsaking all my other books and binging on Angel Sanctuary.I can't stop,it's just so good!
Well, this was really, really weird. Chaotic angels, incest, gore, fights, apocalyptic shit... It's a hell of a lot going on. Interesting, and with a cool artwork. I'm in for the ride.
Incest gothic manga? I just don't get the appeal.. one of the most disappointing manga ever for me..
Alla fine l'ho fatto e me ne sono innamorata.Premetto di aver già sentito parlare di Angel Sanctuary nei paragoni con altri libri che ho letto (angelici e non) ma non mi era mai capitato di poterlo leggere, e neanche tuttora che non mi trovo nemmeno a metà serie.Insomma, compro i primi tre capitoli e mi ritrovo alla fine del terzo col cuore spezzato ed un sentimento di ambivalenza verso la Yuki, che, solo al volume 4 della serie riuscirà a riconquistarmi.Siamo in Giappone nel '99 (la storia è stata scritta nella prima metà dei '90, quindi è di genere anche un po' futuristico) e ci troviamo alla volta del nuovo millennio.Conosciamo Setsuna che, dopo quasi dieci libri che ho letto di Angel Sanctuary, non sono ancora riuscita a capire quanti anni abbia, comunque immagino fra 16 e 17.Setsuna è un ragazzo problematico: non ha amici e attira risse dovunque vada, tanto che certi suoi compagni cercano persino di ucciderlo volontariamente.
Just thinking about summarizing the plot makes my head ache, anyway.So first, let's get the most obvious thing out of the way: the art of this manga is GORGEOUS.
(It's also fascinating to see how this classic series has influences others - I think I recognized Kira as a model for a lot of Minamoto Kano's characters, for example.)Then there's the plot.
I suppose it all makes sense in the end, and it's definitely interesting and thought provoking.
I admit I mostly read this because a colleague gifted me most of these volumes, and a gift like that deserved to be read.
A very interesting read about one of society's greatest taboos.Also,very well written and expressed.
Kaori Yuki is probably the most interesting artist in manga. Though her story telling is border-line insane, and if you get to absorbed in this story; it could give you nightmares.  "Let's Kill Each Other!" is the title for the first volume cover art. This has our entire cast of characters, and what a cast it is! On top of that a very complicated mythos to get through. Then an introduction that just jumps right in on a present-day high school setting.  Here's an awesome quote that the main chara
Kaori Yuki is probably the most interesting artist in manga.
Though her story telling is border-line insane, and if you get to absorbed in this story; it could give you nightmares.
"Let's Kill Each Other!" is the title for the first volume cover art.
This has our entire cast of characters, and what a cast it is!
On top of that a very complicated mythos to get through.
Here's an awesome quote that the main character says at the beginning of the sh*&storm."From the beginning, if you come near me again.
All of my manga friends should check this out if you haven't yet.
The supporting cast includes sweet demons and rude angels, dragons, magicians, and every powerful, moody variation in between.Word by word, it is not particularly well-written (it is a comic, after all), but the art is phenomenal, and the fantasy worlds of heaven and hell are impressively profound; Yuki combines a slough of literary and mythological interpretations of characters and places, from Dante to vampire lore, to trip up and reward the main characters.
But it's also philosophical and I'd even say, a little bit educational, if you pay attention.I started this series because of it's amazing art, and I stuck with it because of the surprises I found inside.
Срам ме е да си призная, че има 10 години от както се каня да прочета тази манга.
Арта на мангата е страхотен макар, че сканлацията, която чета да е с кофти качество.
Те и тези с ясните тела (в смисъл ясно е кой е в това тяло и как изглежда в действителност) не са много ясни от към пол...
Някак е ясно, че се предполага, че е мъж, ама никак не е лесно да останеш на същото мнение много дълго.
Има също романтика и любов, интриги, лъжи, красиви момчета (макар и много, много объркани).
Всичко си има мангата :)
We are introduced to Setsuna, a teenage boy from Toyko, but it is revealed that he is the reincarnation of Alexiel, an angel who rebelled against God and her twin brother, Rociel.
In the beginning there are two streams to the story - first there is Setsuna's own life, filled with fist fights with the local thugs, and his confusing and illicit love for his own sister, Sara.There is also the story of Kurai and Arakune, two demons who seek to free Alexiel to overthrow Heaven once and for all, and who seek to convince Setsuna of who he really is.Meanwhile, a mysterious game called 'Angel Sanctuary' has appeared among Tokyo gamers, and is causing deaths all over the city.
Who is responsible and what does it have to do with Setsuna and Alexiel?
I already read this in high school, and I enjoyed it even this time! It has been ages since I last read a manga, and this one is pretty weird and strange and it has a really interesting plot (even though it could be a little disturbing due to the incest factor). And the drawings are GORGEOUS!! So I'll definetly keep reading this manga series!
Something is incredibly profound and captivating about this series. The fact that it follows its own rules is definitely something to admire. I can only imagine what I've yet to read, but I'm sure to find out soon, because the story is addictive. It's a different kinda manga, in a world full of contrived ones.
Poor writing at its worst, this series is a huge nonsensical blob of meaningless phrases hidden behind flashy themes and detailed artwork. From shallow, predictable characters who serve no purpose to a plot that is as clichéd as it is full of inconsistencies, this series' only strength lies in its never ending storm of flowy hair.
I found the story very confusing, the swirl of bizarre characters dizzying, and the artwork flat. It may progress into something "more," but for me there was absolutely no pull to continue on with this series.
I think I need to reread this before I come to any sort of conclusion. It's been a while since I've read any manga so I was a little confused at times and not used to the pacing. I'll just leave it at that for now. But I'm intrigued enough to come back.
I should really learn to read the back of a manga and not just grab the pretty covers...incest is never for me
La vicenda degli Improper Child, sempre nel contesto paradiso, ricorda molto da vicino la realtà del nazismo, perché si basa proprio su quell’assurda idea che è la ricerca della perfezione; esperimenti genetici, creature Grighol, la scelta di quel dio di creare gemelli (Alexiel e Rosiel prima, Metatron e Sandalphon poi) sono tutti aspetti che pongono al centro questo tema.Come accennato, il luogo dove si svolge tutto questo è il paradiso; non che l’inferno sia roseo, tutt’altro, ma il paradiso è decisamente peggiore, il vero inferno!
The brother is evidentially a re-incarnation of one of the major “Angels”, who was female, and is a key part in the saving or destruction of the world.Review: The romantic tension and back story of the siblings are mixed almost haphazardly amongst cerebral explanations of the fights between the angels and a fair amount of bodies being ripped and sliced apart.
Of course, when bodies are often being torn up around you, a bit of normal life is what anyone would want.
The opening chapters are a bit cluttered, so it took me a few chapters to really get into the story.I really, really like angels.
I feel like a learned something new.It seems the mangaka wanted to check all the boxes for "character types usually seen in controversial manga", so there's male and female homosexuality, a trans person and of course the main topic of incest.
And the incestuous feelings that the main character has towards his sister are complex and lead to the right amount of angst.As a person with siblings myself, I don't know if I'm super into the incest storyline.
