https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/426034.Skye_O_Malley
Ick.I wonder, would I have hated this book so much if I'd stumbled upon and read it on my own?
It was making me flip-flop on my opinion of this book, just like our heroine switched from loving to hating to loving to forgetting to ignoring to hating to loving the same man.
The other road leads you to a child-rape scene that I HATE SO MUCH I can’t even find words to describe this total nausea I feel from it.People say, you know, it doesn’t matter if authors put scenes in books that so violate the reader’s brain that the readers find it necessary to reach for bleach and a syringe.
Then, suddenly, back to fashion porn.So that you don’t ever feel the need to read this book, I’m going to give you a summary of its major plot-points and overall message, and highlight a couple of moments that lived up to my MSGR3K hopes.
Oops.The witch hightails it back to England, where the small globes bewitch her a third husband, a man with Shreck-green eyes and a phenomenally long tongue.
Instagram || Twitter || Facebook || Amazon || PinterestBertrice Small has a very distinctive style. So distinct, in fact, that you could probably make a drinking game of it, although I would advise against this, as the end result would inevitably be alcohol poisoning. When you pick up a Bertrice Small book, you know that the hero and heroine are going to play a game of musical beds, until the end of the book where they're magically reunited with their 5+ children from various marriages in which
You know that the sex scenes are going to be outlandishly bad, with phrases like "honey oven," "love grotto," and "manroot" being used so liberally that you begin to feel like Regina from Mean Girls as you think to yourself, "Oh my God, Bertrice, stop trying to make manroot happen.
Niall wants to marry her but his father is titled and snobby and thinks a ship captain's daughter isn't a good enough catch for his son (a decision he rues in earnest once he lays eyes on her for the first time and sees how perfect her breasts are).
Bad Book Is Bad, Scientists SayA team of top researchers from the prestigious Goodreads Institute of Bodice-Ripping Studies have recently published a report concluding that a bad book is bad. "We were very surprised when we analysed the data," said the Institute's charismatic director at yesterday's press conference. The rest of this review is available elsewhere (the location cannot be given for Goodreads policy reasons)
Re-reading this with my sis and Rachel.Original review:Oh that sneaky summer of 1988 when I would pull Bertrice Small off Mom's shelf as soon as the door shut behind her in the morning!
Hours of frantic reading, only to pop it back on the shelf just as she walked through the door.
As far as I can recollect, this was the first romance I ever read and it is probably my favorite book of Small's (as well as being the best of the O'Malley saga that followed).Skye's adventures begin on her wedding night when she meets her soulmate Niall Burke, who exercises droit du seigneur to spare her from her abusive boor of a new husband.
Yes, I was warned that the purple prose was plentiful, rapes abounded and that the sex was OTT and I was prepared for it, but still - "As his seed thundered into her hidden valley he shook fiercely with the intensity of his passion." "Ahh...Skye, your little honey-oven is made for me." Remember that honey-oven bit.
Yes, they are pretty much standard for these older books and I can live with a forced seduction or two, but what I can't live with is when the heroine is raped by the meanest, baddest, most irredeemable man on earth and we get this, "And though she hated him, her body treacherously yielded itself." I won't spoil, but the reader should also be warned that there is a scene towards the end involving a twelve-year-old girl and an aroused dog.
After nearly 25 years, it was time to pick this Bad Girl up again and see if it was as awesome as I remembered.
I didn't hate her, but she wasn't the awesome alpha wench character that I remembered.
Because I'm ready to give this book plenty of latitude since......it's my "first" and you never forget your "first" - it warpsforms your future loves and expectations of the genre......and the batshittery is crazy as fuck.
(Almost the entire fucking book!) That's ballsy, Bertrice.
I approve.This was one of the funnest re-reads I've ever had - despite the 20 year gap, as stuff happened, I remembered it.
She sets the bar high for herself from the beginning of the book, both in the physical description of Skye O’Malley (including incredible details about her appearance like this: “when she laughed she revealed small, perfect white teeth” (11)—when even something so ordinary as teeth are so precisely detailed, you know you’re really in for something) and in the description of her initial connection with Niall Burke, the hero: “They were suspended in time, their souls flowing back and forth between their bodies, twining into one perfect being” (17).
Or I might as well admit I was feeling randy and needed an excuse to check out a bodice-ripper.I was actually going to give Skye three stars after the first couple of hundred pages, as the reviews are correct: the book is so poorly written it's actually funny to read, like a bad horror movie that wants to be scary but turns out into a parody of itself.
The 'bodice-ripper' is actually the most correct description of this kind of book, along with Elizabethan "soap-opera".
I don't actually hate the genre, like I said : the book had its funny, if unintended, moments.
This started out as a fun trashy romp with wild plots and hilariously bad sex scenes, but somewhere along the way it crossed the line into repetitive tedium - just how many taut little nipples, pulsating manroots, orgasmic faints and obligingly dead husbands can you get? Shame, as I would have rated the original trashiness an amused 4 stars, particularly for those manroots; I've read a lot of tat in my time and they have to be the best/worst ever. Genius.
Skye, though based on a real life Irish female pirate who lived in the Tudor era, is a Small creation through and through.
What I love about her, and the majority of Small heroines, is the decidedly modern woman stuck in a restrictive historical era, who does not meekly sit by and let life happen to her but takes a great, big, bite out of it without apologies.
Apart from a loltastic string of lovers and husbands (Bertrice Small very rarely does the "one and only" type of romance), the funnest part of the book for me was Skye's confrontation with Queen Elizabeth, another bombastic woman who would defy her era's conventions to rule as she saw fit, without cowtowing to any men, especially not her lovers.
I loved this book! Very fast paced, exciting tale. I laughed and cried, loved and hated right along with Skye. Great escape reading. The author pulls you right into Skye's world and keeps you wanting more.
I recently read a novel by this author in which Skye's granddaughter was featured, which prompted me to go back and check out the original O'Malley saga.
Love at first sight is now out of fashion, but back in the time period this book was written in, it was not unheard of for two people to instantly lock eyes and have their libidos take over, meaning a marriage would have to take place.
The saga will continue on through several more books, and I have the second one checked out already.
Skye was a strong heroine, especially for the time frame in which the book was written.
this has been one of my all-time favorites for years. fun, romantic, hot, sad, shocking, all of the above in one story.i love Bertrice's version of Elizabeth too (well except for a certain VERY horrid thing Elizabeth does to Skye that pisses her off and fires Skye's need for revenge...no spoilers here!). and having enjoyed the movie Elizabeth with Cate Blanchett, when i see the scenes in my head, i see Cate across from Skye. and Sir Richard Attenborough as Cecil, who really wasn't done justice in that movie. (but that's another subject ;)my recommendation: just read it.
If you're going to read this book comparing it to another genre, say classical literature, then of course you are going to hate it!
But if you see if for what it is, a total escapist fantasy, then it is quite possible that like me, you will love the fictional heroine Skye O'Malley.
There is no woman living or dead who can compare to Skye because she is a work of fiction!
I personally think Beatrice Small has never created another heroine to compare to Skye.
If you only read one of her books, then this would be it.
Through Geoffrey she is introduced to Queen Elizabeth, who is the necessary person to talk to in order to obtain the charters Skye and Small want.
Good thing, because fertile myrtle over there in her little independent townhouse is pregnant with his baby, and good and moral Queen Elizabeth would not be happy to find out Geoffrey had been messing around on his wife, or that Skye was such a hussy.
Ok. So she still loves Geoffrey though, and Niall kind of acts like a jerk, and so she's mad at him.
I want the next book to see what's going to happen next in Skye's life.
"Niall an iarain, Niall of the Iron," she said softly.
This was a famous man, the secret dream lover of half the maidens in Ireland."I see my reputation precedes me, my lady Skye.""It is an open secret that you are Captain Revenge, and that you conduct those daring raids against the English who live in the Dublin Pale.
Of course, no one would dare accuse you of this.""Yet you, my lady, do not fear me," he murmured, holding her fast with his gaze until she blushed.Here's an early description of our hero.
And none of this is meant to be ironic!!
I make no apologies for loving this book. As far as girlie romances go-- (which I only read if they are very, very good) this one is a great read and doesn't leave you feeling like you left your intellect on page two. It's also a great adventure story--the heroine is strong willed, spirited and actually intelligent with a sauciness that may seem contrived until you remember that this book was written decades ago and has probably been copied ad infinitum. It's equally as good as Outlander, if not better.
Stories about a series of men in a beautiful woman’s life.REVIEWER’S OPINION:At times I wanted it to be over which is my definition for 2 stars.
Skye is so beautiful that almost any man near her will fall in love or be so in lust that he will kidnap, rape, or whatever it takes to have her.
I didn’t like the way she hated Niall for a period of time.
One rape scene has men attempting to force sex between a girl and an animal.
There are group sex scenes, prostitution, incest, and sodomy.STORY BRIEF:Skye’s father is the O’Malley, head of a wealthy shipping business in Ireland.
I just recently discovered (from one of the other reviewers and then did some investigating) that Bertrice Small based this "loosely" on the life of 16th century sea captain, pirate, pain in Elizabeth the I's ass, Grace O'Malley.
It's not a biography of Grace O'Malley, but a romance writer actually ripped off Grace O'Malley's life and turned it into smut and made a living from it?Now I understand about how writers do take events and people and sell their lives and change small things around.
In short, until I reviewed this book, I thought it was great.
Though the ride down O'Malley Saga lane, was well written and fun, by the third installment you think you are reading about Wonder Woman, or some other female superhero.
I think that in the beginning, miss Small's talents were new and exciting, and very erotic, but as time goes on, the stories start to sound familiar,the plots of raging lustful torture, repetitive to say the least, and the outcome almost assured.
I first read this book when I was in high school...an impressionable age, for sure.
It instantly became a favorite.
Skye is a STRONG female character who adapts and dominates, no matter the situation that arises.
I consider it important to remember when writing or reading reviews to remember that a review is a personal opinion.
This is definitely a bodice-ripper, but no bodice-ripper is going to win any literary awards.
Keeping that in mind, I thoroughly enjoyed this one!If erotica is what you're looking for, this has only minimal moments compared to Small's later books about The Channel (such as Forbidden Pleasures).
Long ago I read this book because I was in charge with mailing romance novels to my aunt, who lived in Thailand.
I read it before sending the book away.
I cannot say I like this book though it's not the worst romance I've ever read, it is not.
Though Skye clearly is a vividly written character, still I failed to relate myself to her or any of the other character, I don't care about them, and the sex scenes grows tiresome soon enough.
I once hoped that Skye O'Malley would offer something original and daring, different from the stereotyped romances, but it isn't the case.
Or that Niall was a tad more interesting?
hello Geoffrey.Read this for the outlandishly graphic tale that it is rather than for the romance.
While Skye O'Malley  is fiendish smut, Small's writing style can be mechanical in sensual descriptions and her strict pacing of the story that moves Skye from isolated, rugged Ireland to a whorehouse of Algiers to the court of Queen Elizabeth, show just how tightly controlled are the puppet strings pulling Skye's fate along.
Skye O'Malley  is a worthwhile introduction to Small's works.
Not sure if she's for me but I'm interested enough to read another of her books to find out.
Set in Ireland, Algiers and London in the mid 16th century, it is the first in the O’Malley series, and tells of the Irish noble families and the loves of an amazing heroine.
When she is 15, though betrothed to another man (a man she hates), Skye O’Malley falls in love with the dashing Niall Burke, heir to the MacWilliam, the O’Malley’s overlord.
For example, using the vehicle of amnesia, at one point Small has the heroine forgetting who she is and adopting a lifestyle that is inconsistent with who she is and her life in Ireland.
Fast paced....character driven. So well written that I became an instant life long fan of Ms Small. I own every book she has written and I often reread them, making notes and learning how she puts her story together, why she ends chapters the way she does...I study her prose and style. I am writing my own book and I am also a columinst for an online magazine...her writing has helped me become a better writer. She has great talent!
Rape, rape, and more rape. Here are three excellent reviews if you don't want to take my word for it:http://www.goodreads.com/review/show/...http://www.goodreads.com/review/show/...http://www.goodreads.com/review/show/...
Brenda peddles the best smut books ever. Actual quote, "I want you to do to me what your stallion does to my mare." Oh the aching hardness in my groin!
CRACKTASTIC. GIMME MORE.
Uno storico con un personaggio femminile di carattere...
