https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1379125.Autumn_Term
At the front introduction of one, an old friend of hers speculates that critics scorned her for her first book being a 'school story'—a type that fell into disrepute earlier in the twentieth century, due to its extreme popularity, and the almost rigid storylines and character types so many writers churned out.
I happen to think school stories are fascinating, and have studied them rather a lot, but this is not the place to get into that.) Anyway, out of 14 books, apparently only 4 are considered school stories, if I got that right.In Autumn Term, Forest does not pay any attention to accepted character types or storylines.
You've provided an abundance of book pleasure; you’ve read so many children’s books that aren’t esoteric, but were unknown to me and apparently to many others as well!
I’ve always been fascinated with twins, and I’ve always wanted sisters & to be a part of a large family, and I could have really used this book for vicarious gratification.
It’s a very well written book, although the word negligently was a tad overused in my opinion – only mentioning because it was so noticeable to me: it didn’t detract from my enjoyment of the book.I loved how all the girls, including the twins, had very distinct personalities.
Antonia Forest's writing is so unique and wonderful, she really gets into her characters' qualities and flaws, it goes much further than anything I've read before in terms of characterization.
Brilliant writer and though the Kingscote world isn't fluffy and comfortable and encouraging (like, say, the Chalet School is, or even Trebizon), it delivers so much in terms of family dynamics, how a young girl copes with failure, how actions are defined by character and the other way around, that I can't help but think this is a cut above the rest.
Wonderful read and such a shame the rest of the series is so expensive!
When I was a girl, everybody had read Enid Blyton's school stories, and a few people had then moved on to the Chalet School and Trebizon.
And whenever I tried to persuade somebody to read Autumn Term, they'd say no thank you, they'd already read the Malory Towers books and this book would just be more in the same vein.
All school stories are not the same.In Autumn Term, all the characters are real, and the events wholly believable.
That alone puts it head and shoulders above most other school stories.
Read and enjoy.
Incredibly good.
One of the best school stories I have ever read, hands-down.
As a result, it is incredibly emotionally effective.
The characters are astonishingly well-rounded, complex and believably flawed for a book that never really steps outside known school story formulas (new girls want to become successes, make a lot of blunders, but show hidden talents and triumph at last)and really likable even though they are awful at times.
Without being original at all in content, it is still in a different class altogether than most school stories.I really wish the later books in the series were freely available!
I grew up on Enid Blyton, especially Malory Towers , and the boarding school genre has always been a favourite of mine.
Very highly recommended, and essential reading for anyone who likes the schoolgirl, hockey sticks or boarding school genre.
(Update February 2015: Btw, I've put together a guide to Antonia Forest fanfic if anyone would like to take a look: written to acknowledge the first-class AF fanfic out there, and to share it with those who haven't seen it yet.
I hope no-one minds that I'm sharing it in reviews of some other AF books here - my motives are altruistic, I do most horribly swear.A Reader's Guide to Antonia Forest fanfic.
I read this book quite a while ago on Constance's recommendation--if only more of Antonia Forest's books were available here! I always search them out when I'm in the UK. A great girls' school book--and thanks again, Constance!
You know you're going to enjoy a book (or at least I do) when characters chide one another with "Don't be an ass." Forest's writing is straightforward and engaging, and she caught me up in the adventures of the Marlow twins right out of the gate. I am so pleased to have found this series and look forward to reading more of it.
AF is probably one of the most underrated children's authors ever. Her school stories are filled with depth and sophistication missing from most other entries in the genre. Her family stories are even better.
British boarding school drama that I missed when I was young and a boarding-school-drama addict. Thanks, Constance!
Absolutely the greatest schoolgirl book I have ever read. I am looking forward to "Attic Term" if i can get it away from Pansy and Sophy
The Marlows are a large family of six girls (Karen, Rowan, Ann, Ginty and the twins Nicola and Lawrie) and their brothers (Giles and Peter).
At the time of writing this review, I have only ever read the school stories: Autumn Term, End of Term, The Cricket Term and The Attic Term.In Autumn Term, Nicola (actually perceived to be the main character) and her twin Lawrie have much to live up to.
As well as ending up in Third Remove, the twins have other problems to overcome: their conflict with Marie, a girl in their form keen to cause trouble for them, and with Lois Sanger, a contemporary of elder sister Rowan, who has no time for the Marlow family, full-stop.
This painfully observant book about boarding school and the inner lives of young women is at times sarcastic, bitingly witty, thought-provoking, and touching.
I love getting into their world and experiencing the embarrassing realistic observations about the lives of girls and young women.
Antonia Forest writes with such precision and skill that I find myself nodding in recognition of truths that I have never noticed before.This is the first book in the series, and The Marlows and the Traitors is next, in which the Marlow girls and their brothers have an adventure outside of the school setting.
I thought it was silly to have two main characters in a boarding school book with FOUR older sisters (and two essentially off-screen brothers).
One might have thought it would have been wiser to reserve a younger sister for future addition.
Also, it annoyed me that EVERYONE had a freaky British nickname.
Seriously, there was this huge expositional introduction of characters and plus you had to remember everyone's nutty mannish nickname.Also also, the cold-fishishness of the Marlow parents disturbed me.
I was never certain if the parents and/or older siblings actually liked our protagonists.That said..boy, am I annoyed that the sequels aren't in print.

I had this recommended to me because I mentioned loving books that take place at boarding schools, and fortunately the recommendation was spot on :-) I loved reading about Nick's and Lawrie's antics in Third Removed and especially thought the description of the play extremely well done - that is EXACTLY how it feels... right down to the melancholy and "day after blues". I think Antonia Forest must have had experience with acting herself, to be able to describe it so well.A lovely cozy book, and the perfect accompaniment to a lazy afternoon.
I missed reading when I was younger as I wasn't a huge fan of school stories but if I'd come across this then it could well have changed my mind. The characters really come alive with all their faults and grow, change and learn lessons throughout the book. Lots of lovely subtle humour and a real feel for school life. I wish the other books in the series weren't so expensive so I could read my way through them all.
When my mother was getting her master's degree, one of her professors heard about my interest in school stories and introduced us to this amazing author. This is the first of her books about the Marlow family, and begins with Nicola and Lawrie Marlow setting off for their first term at boarding school. Kingscote is a school with more dimension than Malory Towers or St. Clare's, and the Marlows are a family you will enjoy.
We enjoy reading school stories together but after a promising start I'm afraid I started skipping large parts that we found boring, arguing ect. These parts perhaps had lost their meaning with time because we couldn't quite see what there was to argue about. We did enjoy some detailed descriptions of girl guiding which was very interesting to see how different it is today.
I love Antonia Forest. Her school stories are full of real people, and things do not always work out for them. This is the first of the stories about the Marlows, concentrating in the main on the youngest, twins, Laurie and Nicola, and their adventures at school. Great antidote to the saccharine sweet version available elsewhere.
The plot is standard "going away to boarding school". The characters, however, are very lively and much more interesting than the standard issue. The play-within-the-book is well described and involving, and the whole very nicely done. Another I wish I'd read when I was 12, though I'm glad I had an opportunity to read it now- thanks to Abigail!
whattay discovery this book was! A boarding school story, but SO different from Blyton's malory towers/st clare's series, though I didn't expect it to be. the characters are much more human, there is less judgement, less morality, less preaching. Though all the essentials are there, midnight parties and whatnots, but there is also much more. now if i could only find the sequel.
Good fun, more a 3 1/2 star book though. None of the characters were particularly loveable, but I found their adventures to be thrilling to read about! Would read more in the series if they came my way, but am not going to begin a massive hunt for them.
Seemingly more realistic than Enid Blyton's boarding school stories. Very interesting to note how attitudes to children and their behavioural standards have changed since the 1940s. Very enjoyable and vastly better written than EBs efforts.
oh, boy...wow!things niggle at me that probably make it not fully top-rank. but damn, that worked on me.
The characters are first rate, but this boarding school story doesn't have enough plot for my taste. The dialogue is great though, I might still read the sequels.
Please note this is five stars for what it is within the expectations of the school genre. Review to come.
Very enjoyable. Sometimes I found myself wishing the main characters were a little smarter or more academically inclined, though.
At last I have gotten my hands upon the first one, and I am very pleasantly surprised by how much I enjoyed it.
Tim herself is a fascinating character, depicted without much moral judgement -- I hope she is in future books and continues to develop.
(hide spoiler)]There is certainly some moral didacticism but much less than I expected.
I almost wish I hadn't enjoyed it so much since I don't know how possible it will be to find the rest of them.
This wasn't my first Marlow book - but the one I've read wasn't a school story, but a school holiday one and was very different. This is probably one of the most interesting boarding school books that I've read. The characters are very human and have plenty of flaws on display - even the ones you're meant to like. I'm not sure I've come across characters quite as well developed in any of the other books from a similar era that I've read. I definitely need to read more of these - particularly the school ones.
