https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/10577.Roadwork
A new stretch of interstate is being build and Bart Dawes' house is right in its path.
Bart Dawes is cracking as progress threatens to take his house and place of employment.
Normally, my complaint with a lot of Stephen King books is that they're a lot of unnecessary crap and they could easily lose 300 pages.
Dawes started out mildly interesting and then just seemed pathetic and sad.
By the end, I was ready to run the wrecking ball and destroy his house myself.The fourth of the original four Bachman books is now closed.
I thought The Running Man was okay, I liked the idea and I enjoyed the ending, however it felt like it dragged a bit in the middle.
So I went into Roadwork feeling a bit apprehensive and not really looking forward to it.However, I'm happy to say that I enjoyed this one way more than I thought I would.
It's very understandable that you'd want to hold onto whatever is left in your life.When reading more about Roadwork, I found out that King wrote this book as a way of dealing with the grief after losing his mother to cancer.
It seemed like something that should have been a short story but was stretched needlessly into a full length novel.
Normally I always love King/Bachman's characters but they left a lot to be desired in this story.
Dawes has to be one of my least favourite characters that I've encountered in a King story.
And I wasn't sure Dawes had the balls to actually do anything so I was quite pleased with the bang of an ending.
But I'm still left feeling a bit disappointed, it feels like there was a heck of a lot of nothing leading up to it!
As much as it pains me to do this, I calls 'em like I sees 'em, and this was an effort in futility on just about all fronts.
Now I know, I know, the Bachman books are depressing and dark and bleak and grim.
I've read all of the Bachman books, and they've all been dark and grim and whatnot...
Dawes was OK, but every other character sounded like they should have been a cartoon.
Mr. Magliore would be a fatcat Get It Man, whose right hand man would be a lanky tomcat with big ears, sharp claws, and showing ribs.
They thought they were living the American Dream but that dream has a dark underside and as Jim Morrison said in Roadhouse Blues “the future’s uncertain and the end is always near.”King, in an introduction, stated that Bachman had become like an alter ego for him, not just a pseudonym to sell more books; but rather a means to write what he could not as the scary but likable SK.
Bachman was to King like a fake Twitter account created to allow him a chance to leave behind conventional inhibitions and get DARK.
Por las cosas perdidas.
Por tu sonrisa, Mary.
Perdóname si echo la cabeza hacia atrás y me pongo a gritar por la sonrisa que ya nunca aparece en tu rostro.
¿De acuerdo?Hacerte viejo es como conducir el coche a través de una capa de nieve que cada vez se hace más y más espesa.
A partir de determinado momento uno no hace otra cosa que girar y girar las ruedas, que no cesan de patinar.
Tu barco no llegará para salvarte, muchacha.
Y no hay botes salvavidas para nadie.
Nunca ganarás una disputa.
Ninguna cámara seguirá tus pasos y no habrá nadie contemplando tu lucha.
But as the story progressed I became absolutely engrossed in it, it really becomes difficult to put down.
In short, its a tale of one man standing in the way of progress, clutching onto the remains of the past with whatever it takes, slowly losing everything and descending into madness.Stephen King has gone on record as to say that this is the book he wrote at the time of his mother's death and the feelings he was experiencing at the time.
Honestly, I think its a very underrated novel, King now claims this as his favourite of the Bachman books where once he said it was his weakest.
Stephen King, considered "roadwork" one of his not so good novels. I want to disagree with His majesty . Lots of readers thought that it would have been a fine short story, but it failed as a novel. I object to that. For me, "it" and "the stand" would be better if they were "less" ,but "roadwork" is exactly the right size.Because it is real life. In 300 or so pages, it holds the full extension of human vulnerability and despair, in front of painfull fate ,grievous blows of life and the system's cruelty. For me, a masterpiece!
Audiobook – Narrated by G Valmont Thomas – Dreadful narration.This is the first audiobook narrated by Thomas that I’ve listened to and it will probably be my last.
His reading voice is beautiful and if he’d stuck to that I would have thoroughly enjoyed it.
But he didn’t.His character voices were just awful.
It was like watching a puppet show.
At least that’s the image that kept popping into my head.
I couldn’t finish listening to it.***Ebook:Bleak and depressing as the Bachman books tend to be.
I liked the story but I was glad to be done with it.
Ο μαιτρ του θρίλερ ξέρει να χειρίζεται και να σκιαγραφεί χαρακτήρες της καθημερινότητας μ έναν μοναδικό τρόπο. Σκέψεις και φράσεις μέσα από την ψυχή του απλού ήρωα. Να σαν αυτή: " Ο πόνος στις πλάτες των γονιών δεν είναι το πιο φρικτό πράγμα. Το πιο φρικτό πράγμα απ όλα είναι είναι η ταχύτητα με την οποία τα παιδιά ξεχνούν αυτές τις ίδιες πλάτες και στρέφονται στις δικές τους υποθέσεις"Το έγραψε ως ...πιτσιρικάς, πριν περίπου 38 χρόνια, μέσα του όμως κουβαλάει αγωνίες, σκέψεις, σοφίες, πόνο ενός
Ο μαιτρ του θρίλερ ξέρει να χειρίζεται και να σκιαγραφεί χαρακτήρες της καθημερινότητας μ΄ έναν μοναδικό τρόπο. Σκέψεις και φράσεις μέσα από την ψυχή του απλού ήρωα. Να σαν αυτή: " Ο πόνος στις πλάτες των γονιών δεν είναι το πιο φρικτό πράγμα. Το πιο φρικτό πράγμα απ΄ όλα είναι είναι η ταχύτητα με την οποία τα παιδιά ξεχνούν αυτές τις ίδιες πλάτες και στρέφονται στις δικές τους υποθέσεις"Το έγραψε ως ...πιτσιρικάς, πριν περίπου 38 χρόνια, μέσα του όμως κουβαλάει αγωνίες, σκέψεις, σοφίες, πόνο ενός ώριμου, πολύ ώριμου συγγραφέα.Αξίζει να το διαβάσετε..
Bert Dawes lost his son Charlie to a brain tumor.
They want Bert to leave a home jam-packed with memories and mementos, the site of so many happy hours with his wife and son, and a neighborhood equally filled with a sense of love and safety and wonder.
They want Bert to leave the place he works.
Once again Stephen King shows us more than his ability to paint pictures with words, or capture the details of the moment, or scare the holy hell out of us.
Bert has to make two statements and they are very important statements for all of us...
Yπάρχουν κάποια βιβλία που,πραγματικά,δεν θα συνιστούσαν καμία απώλεια για τη λογοτεχνία,αν δεν είχαν γραφτεί ποτέ.
Το "Έργα οδοποιίας" είναι ένα τέτοιο βιβλίο.
Ο ίδιος ο King έχει πει πως το θεωρεί το χειρότερο -ίσως- βιβλίο του Bachman και απλά θα έρθω να συμφωνήσω.
Πέστε να με φάτε!Αν επρόκειτο για διήγημα 80 σελίδων μάξιμουμ θα έλεγα ίσως άλλα πράγματα τώρα,αλλά για μυθιστόρημα 300+ σελίδων ούτε για αστείο!
Σκυλοβαρέθηκα,και ο μόνος λόγος που το έφτασα μέχρι τέλους είναι γιατί σιχαίνομαι να αφήνω βιβλία στη μέση.
Όλο το υπόλοιπο για μένα ήταν ένα ανούσιο παραλήρημα ανευ ουσίας.
Ξαναπέστε να με φάτε!
1.5 stars. Move aside Rage and Gerald’s Game, new least fave King coming through! I can’t even be bothered to write a review for this, it was just crap. Main character drew no sympathy from me, he was distasteful and absolutely fixated on vaginas. I swear every other word was ‘vagina’. And it was dull. That’s all you’re getting from me folks. The reason it’s not a 1 is the possible Dark Tower connection.
This one is more like 3.5 stars. A perfect example of psychological horror. There are no monsters in this book except the ones in Bart Dawes own brain. The best part of the book was the way that Mr. King was able to make the highway extension feel like a character. This story was written in 1981, I'm not sure if it would even have been published in a post 9-11 American society, at least not by a major publisher.
That book was Roadwork.It took me a long time after that day to finally fall in love with the works of Stephen King.
A lot of this novel is an excruciatingly detailed look at Bart Dawes's gradual descent into madness by way of all-pervading depression and a sense of self-loathing, so in that way it isn't totally unlike Jack Torrance's situation in The Shining (which King apparently wrote right after completing this novel).
I wasn't sure about this one but by the end I did like Bart and over all enjoyed this book. it's kinda heart breaking :(
Barton avoids making decisions and take actions pretty much as far as possible and you read along with a feeling of constant dread, plea bargaining for his sake in your head: "maybe it's fixable", "it may still be time", "if he moves now, maybe he won't be..." But time runs out.I really enjoyed the book this time and my rating of it is a strong star up from my old one and the only thing keeping it from a four-star read in my mind is that it actually is too long; at about 3/4 there is really not much more to tell and only so many ways (read: one) that the story can end.
Throughout the story, I came to like Bart, the main character whose elbowed off the stage of his work and social life like a has-been actor.
Until Bart's final moment that is, when I was able to connect the final piece of the emotional puzzle for his character.
I'm reminded of Michael Douglas's "Falling Down" - a man unable to accept the major changes in his life, where I felt the same kind of loss during his final moments.Marginal recommendation; I liked meeting Bart Dawes, but not so much the way in which I had to.Not for the sensitive crowd: language, sexual content, some violence.
Πρόκειται για ένα βιβλίο που δεν έχει καμία απολύτως σχέση και σύνδεση με το Φανταστικό, είναι μια άκρως ρεαλιστική ιστορία, που περιγράφει με ιδιαίτερο τρόπο την αντίδραση ενός μεσοαστού άνδρα στην επικείμενη κατεδάφιση του σπιτιού του, απ'όπου θα περάσει ένας νέος μεγάλος δρόμος.
Αυτά τα έργα οδοποιίας θα βγάλουν στην επιφάνεια την τρέλα και τα προβλήματα που έχει ο πρωταγωνιστής, Μπάρτον Τζορτζ Ντοζ.
Κυρίως ο δεύτερος θάνατος είναι που επηρέασε σε μεγάλο βαθμό τον Ντοζ.
Επίσης δέθηκα με τα προβλήματα του πρωταγωνιστή, αν και μου φάνηκε κάπως υπερβολικός στις αντιδράσεις του (από την άλλη, απλώς του την έδωσε!).
You will either care about this character or you won’t and if you don’t...well you’ll probably want to move on quickly and pick up IT or The Shining to get this book out of your memory.I was immediately drawn into this character’s misery and paranoia.
No this book will stand out on its own as one of the most unique Stephen King novels I’ve ever read and will stick with me for a while.Whew...I need a pick me up and some sunlight now...oh wait never mind....theres a construction crew outside doing work down the street...
In my rereading of King's work, this, along with Eyes of the Dragon and The Tommyknockers, was one of the novels I was kind of dreading, because, though I remembered very little of the novel, I distinctly remember being somewhat bored with it and flat out not liking it much.Yeah, well, that was the young me.
Yes, it's a touch dated now, but that current of despair, that feeling that the world is moving too fast, that it's moving on, that everything is in a slow decline...all of that resonates with my feeling for the world right now, forty-two years after the events detailed in the novel.Don Henley has a line that, I think, describes Bart Dawes perfectly.
It wasn’t until almost halfway through the book that King reveals his son’s death of cancer that the pieces start to come together.
Other Notes – It seems like King had mixed and changing feelings about this book over the years after it was first published.
In a new introduction of the second edition of “The Bachman Books” King shared that “Roadwork” had become one of his favorites of his early books.
Overall – As I re-read King’s early works, this is the first book so far that I haven’t really liked.
A well-written, tragic tale of a "beautiful loser", whose life has gone downhill at an exponential velocity, ever since he learned that there was going to be a highway built through his living room.
Ok, maybe just a coincidence right?Also, we learn that Dawes is living in one of the many alternate Earths of the SK multiverse.
Well, in Dark Tower VI we learn that Stephen King himself is writing the story of the characters in the Dark Tower, Salems Lot, and all of his other work.
I have only read one other of the Bachman novels, The long walk and I remember really enjoying it so when I came across Roadwork I was excited to read it.
The Bachman novels are not really so much horror as Kings novels are and the difference is nice.
I find it sad King had to stop writing as Bachman personally.
Roadwork is about a man who loses his place of employment and his house because the city is building a highway through both.
He doesn't want to lose either and doesn't take it well at all.
Las pérdidas y el dolor, la falta de herramientas y posibilidades para realizar un duelo y el decante de todo esto en la locura cuando ese fantasma de la pérdida adquiere una nueva forma con la cual parece que va a devorar lo poco que queda.
Algunos, claramente, no logran tolerar esta presión y acaban por ser martires de la forma más extraña convirtiendose a si mismos en una réplica de la locura y el desinterés que está tan marcado en la sociedad.
Die Geschichte eines Mannes, der langsam aber sicher jede Rationalität hinter sich lässt, ist genau das, was Stephen King und Richard Bachman voneinander unterscheidet.
Sogar in seinen jüngeren, an Krimis orientierten Werken ist das so.Aber unter dem Synonym "Richard Bachman" schrieb der wohl bekannteste Horror-Autor der Welt auch mal "simple Thriller".
Warum also nicht einfach nur ein solches entwickeln?, muss er sich gedacht haben.Wie dem auch sei.
Wer sich einen "typischen" Stephen King erwartet, der sei nochmal darauf hingewiesen, dass dieser das Buch nicht unter seinem eigenen Namen veröffentlicht hat.
Und nicht jeder, der nicht aufgeben möchte, hat auch einen Plan.
This was at least my fourth time reading Roadwork, and previously I hadn't enjoyed it.
This time around, I read it immediately after the breakdown of my own marriage, and had a very different perspective on Bart Dawes and the stand he takes.
Roadwork is a brilliant exploration of the breaking point of people and how they react to it.
Bart is almost never rational in his decisions, but his journey is truthful (though sometimes farfetched for the purpose of the story).
It is a look at how impersonal our government and corporations are, and how their decisions, though not malicious, effect the lives of everyday people.
Bart Dawes has an appetite for self-destruction.
It took me back to certain periods of my life, looking into the bottom of my pint glass, ruining relationships and opportunities and unable to say exactly why other than feeling the need to break things for myself.
Whatever that is -- that spiritual cancer -- this book nails it.
But it is way too long and this copy had a surprising amount of typos and it really doesn't have that narrative pull that you need for a book this length.
It could have been half this size and would have been way more effective.
Nunca pensé que iba a demorar tanto en leer un libro inferior a cuatrocientas páginas, y encima de King. Se me hizo tedioso por el simple hecho de que es una novela muy lineal. No hay giros abruptos, y no sorprende en ningún momento. Además, nunca pude empatizar con Barton Dawes. Lo positivo podría ser lo de siempre, a lo que nos tiene acostumbrados el autor; la estructura psicológica de los personajes y sus claras motivaciones. En definitiva, debe ser lo más flojo que he leído de King. Lo siento Steve, esta vez no has estado a la altura.
Definitely not one of my faves. I really did not want to reread this one in my opinion this is my least favourite Bachman book. I will say though it wasn't as painful as the first time. Reading Roadwork the first time through for me was long and pointless to me. I felt like I wasted my time. This time it still seemed long and drawn out for a predictable ending. This time (maybe just a little bit) I can relate to Bart's angst and frustration. Which made the story smoother but just really not a story I enjoyed.
