https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/226007.I_Wonder_as_I_Wander
While on tour in the American Jim Crow South, he could not eat anywhere he wanted, rest anywhere he could afford, or use the restroom at his leisure because he was a black man, yet his play ran on Broadway and was "listed among the twelve longest runs for 1935-36" (even if it took him a while to realize that someone else was putting his name to his work, even if his agent didn't tell him about the play until after it was produced, even if he had to get the Dramatist Guild to represent him so he get paid royalties for his own work)."For ten years I had been a writer of sorts, but a writer who wrote mostly because, when I felt bad, writing kept me from feeling worse; it put my inner emotions into exterior form, and gave me an outlet for words that never came in conversation."Hughes' house in Harlem stood empty and dilapidated until recently, when Harlem writers were able to raise enough money to turn it into an artist colony (you can read about the process here=>http://www.nydailynews.com/new-york/m...).
I learned some fascinating information about the world and also about Hughes, the most interesting was perhaps that he was quite good friends with Alfred Koestler, whom he travelled with.
Nowadays our biggest problems seem to be whether we can get a wi-fi connection but in those days even finding a good quality pencil to write with was a challenge for Hughes!His experiences in the former Soviet Union were the most illuminating for me.
He met the most interesting people there and also considered the parallels between the blacks in the racist American South and the Uzbeks who were downtrodden members of the Soviet Union.
But he got up and went away shaking his head."----------"Concerning the nice girls of the town, there was a very sad story going the rounds of Madrid that year.
Rather than be raped, many of the good girls of Madrid decided to give themselves to their sweethearts – the gallant young men who expected to die anyway, within a few days, in defence of the city.
Then, even in the eyes of their own lovers, thousands of the nice girls of Madrid, since they were no longer virgins, were held in contempt."
Near the end of this 1954 account of his world travels from 1931 through 1937, Langston Hughes writes:I remembered once during my childhood in Kansas my grandmother had given me an apple that had been bruised and so had a brown spot on it.
He goes to Mexico to settle the estate of his dead father, to Cuba and Haiti for the experience, through the south on a reading tour of universities, to Moscow on a doomed motion picture project, to central Asia as a journalist, across China on his way home, to Japan where he is ejected under political suspicion, and lastly to Spain to cover the Civil War. Sometimes he basks in the hospitality of wealthy friends, mostly he is barely able to pay for a hotel room and food.
(Japan and China were at war at the time.) Back to California where a friend loaned him a house to live in for a year so Hughes could write.
But a friend kept pointing out that the people who disagreed with the new Soviet order of things were either dead or in prison.
I am sorry not to read more of his own words about that life, but I am very glad that I have these two volumes in my library, and I am looking forward immensely to reading Short Stories of Langston Hughes, which I ordered a day or so ago, and I will be on the lookout for his poetry books as well.This book and his first autobiography, The Big Sea, were for me excellent introductions to Hughes and his work.
But I could not bring myself to believe, as Grasdani did, that life was not better for most people now than it had been in the days of the Volga boatmen, the Asiatic serfs and the Jim Crow signs.The Uzbekistan section, at times a bit tedious, in retrospect is the emotional heart of the book—the part in which Hughes comes face to face with the best that Communism has to offer as well as its ultimate limitations.
I did not know much about Langston Hughes, but this autobiography helped fill some of that gap. I found it to be a humorous and insightful book. He provides a human touch to Russia, a few of the Soviet states, Haiti, Spain and the United States. It was a fascinating time in the US and his books gives the history some interesting spice.
His hosts are duly impressed with his writing and invite friends and neighbors to parties in his honor, and as pleased and cordial as he is, he longs for an occasional night of rest and quiet in a rented private room—off limits to a black man at that time.Next, Hughes tours the USSR with a group of blacks hired to make a movie that is a Communist spin on race relations in the US.
It is yet another demonstration (as if one were needed) that books often are have all of the advantages of conversing with the most interesting person you've ever met, with none of the drawbacks.For example – Advantage: the poet has been to more interesting places, at more interesting times, than you or I will ever to be able to experience personally, and yet can convey the atmosphere concisely and with a self-deprecating good humor.
Beautiful memoir by a poetic genius, of what it was like to be a black man, building a writing career and traveling the world in the era of the Great American Depression, Stalin's Russia, the Spanish Civil War. His trajectory is inspired by an interest in folk traditions of the African diaspora.
Henri Cartier-Bresson, Diego Rivera, and many more.Hughes resiliently endures many discomforts on his journey through life and the world: overcrowded, segregated train carriages, rude bigots, a drenching on a primitve bus, sleeping in a drain by the side of the road.
Due to his artistic connections it seems he's invited to most of the shows and parties worth attending, with or without money.
This is actually a follow up to the author's first volume of autobiographical writings entitled "The Big Sea" (which I now want to read as well).
A friend and mentor suggests that he could get paid to read his poems at black colleges and churches across the deep South.
The difference was that Hughes actually found his treatment to be an improvement over what he would have gotten at home.However, I thought the entire book was filled with great anecdotes about people in the places he visited, most of which were in a state of upheaval.
Rampersad notes that Hughes is "by no means completely candid or detailed about his politics...[with] not a line of the powerful, almost incendiary poems he wrote in the Soviet Union." For me, "I Wonder as I Wander" was a sort of antidote or at least flip side of "guy books" such as "On the Road": Langston Hughes is often broke, stranded, &/or desperate, but always curious, usually good-humored & resourceful, rarely selfish or self-pitying, & never exploitive or nihilistic.
I'd never heard of it or considered reading it until I found it on the "new arrivals" shelf in the audio book section of the library.
I'd never read more than a few poems by Langston Hughes.
Langston Hughes is thoughtful and observant, endlessly good-humored and kind.
In the process, he meets and befriends dozens of recognizable names including Alfred Koestler, Ernest Hemingway, Diego Rivera, and so on and so forth.
I can't wait to read more of Hughes work.
Langston Hughes's life was both fascinating and tedious to listen to.
Hughes spoke a lot about the color line in the U.S. Where Jim Crow laws are alive and well.
But in Europe there is no color line.
He spent time in Communist Russia, in Spain during the Spanish Civil War, in Paris, and in general all over the world trying to make a living as a writer while being an ambassador, however informally, for Negroes in America.
His memoir was at times very interesting but often it was a listing of people he met and some of his adventures are endlessly long.
Though Langston Hughes is best known for his Harlem Renaissance poetry and fiction, this memoir of his travels in Asia, Mexico and Spain deserves just as much recognition.
If you enjoyed Mark Twain's travelogues or even "Blue Highways", this should appeal to you as well.
Hughes spends significant time in post-revolution Russia, China and Japan often living hand-to-mouth but always running across fellow Americans, from bohemians to celebrities.
He also visits Spain as a corespondent during their civil war, again always hungry but never destitute.
As fascinating a history lesson as it is a memoir, "I Wonder As I Wander" is highly recommended.
Probably one of my most favorite books.
It goes through a good portion of Langston's life going through the South and then heading off to Russia and through Asia and too California and Mexico and it ends up around the Spanish Civil War which is always interesting.
If you like really good autobiographies then this is right up your alley and if you are interested in the soviet union and how black people were treated there as well as other places around the world this is also up your alley.
He was a great poet and a great writer and this book further proves that.
It was truly interesting to see other parts of the world through Langston Hughes's eyes. He noted the similarities and differences in how he was treated in the various countries he visited. In some places there seemed to be very little discrimination based on skin color, but in others, Jim Crowe types of written and unwritten rules were solidly in place.Langston Hughes was a person with a curious mind. He watched and questioned and explored. It was wonderful to go along with him on his journey.
Langston Hughes covered a lot of ground in the 1920s and 1930s and saw a lot of places that are still difficult for people to travel to.
He saw parts of the Soviet Union the Soviets did n't want outsiders to see.
He wanted to see the other Soviet republics and traveled tot he border of Afghanistan, to Tashkent, Bokhara, Uzbekistan, Ashgabat.I think the interesting piece is about Langston Hughes's observations comparing life in the countries he is living for the underclass, how people of color are treated and how blacks are treated in the US.
In the second of his two autobiographies, the richly talented Langston Hughes recounts his remarkable travels during the 1930s.
He begins with his poetry reading tour throughout America, encouraged by Mary McLeod Bethune, here described in lively detail.
Hughes vividly captures all the danger, uncertainty, and frenzy of the world at that time.
Surprisingly, Hughes himself comes across as an elusive figure in his own autobiography, often leaving the reader unsure about his own wonderings on his wanderings (to paraphrase one reviewer).
In the late 1930's Langston Hughes traveled to Russia, across Asia into China and Japan, spent time in California and then served as a reporter in the Spanish civil war. This book is his travelogue of those years. He tells stories of people and places he visited, and it reveals him as truly a global person, always rooted in the lives and experiences of black people all over the world. A simple and easy read, but interesting to those attracted to Hughes' poetry and prose.
So incredibly interesting. Hughes had some major adventures, and thoughtful take aways about race, politics, and people. I thoroughly enjoyed every bit of this book. He writing is much more matter of fact then I had thought it would be (this is my first Hughes book). It is not floral, or filled with prose, but it is funny, and straightforward. The story was paced well, and never dull.
I listened to this book and I will miss Langston's narrative as I continue to wander.
Amazing, often amusing, beautifully written (of course) account of Hughes' odysseys.
What a wondrous life Langston Hughes led! His travels around the world are retold here via warmly recounted anecdotes featuring such artists as novelist Arthur Koestler in Russia, photographer Henri Cartier-Bresson in Mexico, and poet Nicolás Guillén in Spain (during that country's Civil War, no less). A can-do spirit informs just about everything Hughes undertakes, whether he's cobbling together speaking engagements at black colleges in the South, trying to get back from Cuba, or figuring out how to visit China despite the red tape. His adventurous nature defies expectation.
He didn't only travel around there: he lived in Moscow for awhile, also Mexico--he spoke fluent Spanish!--France, Carmel-by-the-Sea (California), and visited Spain for several months during the war there.Staying with Central Asia for a moment, I really had to stop and think about all the changes that came about in the 50 years between his visit and mine.
I suspect the last 15 has perhaps meant quite a lot of backward movement, but the descriptions of the people, the mores, the practical problems of the area struck home.His time in Spain was similarly poignant.
"In the last few years I had been all around the embattled world and I had seen people walking tightropes everywhere--the tightrope of color in Alabama, the tightrope of transition in the Soviet Union, the tightrope of repression in Japan, the tightrope of the fear of war in France--and of war itself in China and in Spain--and myself everywhere on my tightrope of words.
One particularly vivid, more personal account comes with the chapter 'Mailbox For The Dead', in which Hughes describes a long evening - during which he was suddenly concentrating on writing a story about his estranged status with his father, whom he rarely thought about.
First of all, I knew next-to-nothing about Langston Hughes when I picked up this book, so I was surprised at the volume of international travel it contained.
As it turns out, if I wanted to learn about Hughes' time in Harlem, I should have picked up his first autobiography that covers the earlier part of his life.
In other countries, he very quickly learned the racial/ethnic hierarchy, critiqued it, and (very often) made some people uncomfortable by pushing back against it.This racial critique could not have contrasted more with Zora Neale Hurston's autobiography, which I read immediately prior.
No way.I think you’ll find Mr. Hughes was less concerned with politics and more with civil rights.
The Moscow propaganda machine treated Black Americans like celebrities in the 1930’s and he freely admitted to that.
Turns out it was disgruntled communists upset with him for not portraying communism in a more favorable light.
Hughes was lucky as a writer on this book; he was famous, black when it was a political issue, and traveling on the eve of WWII.
It could be listed under Travel, American Civil Rights, Art, Communism, Fascism, and the Spanish Civil War. As it stands it is my favorite travel book to date.
Langston Hughes,(February 1, 1902 – May 22, 1967), a most affable, intelligent, cosmopolitain, stubborn, prolific writer and persistent traveler chronicles in this book several years (beginning in 1929)of his young manhood traveling, first to Haiti (where he spent a winter) via Cuba, then all over southern and western USA reading his poetry, then to Russia for a year (to work on a film that was never got off the ground)and traveling much in that large country before returning home via Japan and China.
Everywhere he met old friends and made many new ones both at home and abroad.
The book is one interesting, amazing story after another.
I fell in love with Langston Hughes reading this book and have been obsessed with his life since.
This is a compelling story that begins with his struggles with the racism of the south in the 1930's, coupled with a travelogue of his episodes as a journalist traveling around the world at a time when there were many interesting and poignant moments in history occurring; the Japanese invasion of China(when he is in Shanghai), the Spanish civil war (which he reports on as a journalist), and the early stages of the communist Soviet Union.
