https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/9838317-the-traveller-s-tree
Readers of his later travel books will recognize many of Leigh Fermor's main interests: language and music, architecture and folktales, history and botany.
At the same time, though, Leigh Fermor reflects his culture's understanding of black islanders and their culture as being primitive, descriptions which are jarring to 21st-century readers.
Even with these problems, the book provides an interesting look into Leigh Fermor's development as a traveller and a writer, and brims over with his curiosity and humanity.
His lyrical descriptions of landscapes, and his profiles of the islanders, stay with the reader.
The idea of "travel writing" is, like the term "war poetry", a conceit.
So to call Paddy Leigh Fermor - man of action, scholar, lover, wit, soldier - a travel writer has the baleful effect of reducing the shimmering depth and breadth of his work to a shorthand.
So whether as a first dip into the writings of this extraordinary man, or as an adjunct to works like A Time of Gifts or Between The Woods and the Water, this book will intrigue, surprise and delight.
This was very interesting, learned a lot about the Caribbean and the history of some of the islands. Enjoyed it but it was not a quick read for me.
Not surprising, perhaps, in a white European man visiting the Caribbean in the 1940s, but disappointing and upsetting nonetheless.A big part of what makes Leigh Fermor so compelling in his chronicles of Europe is his historical sensibility--his awareness of the many layers of the past and how they all bleed into and affect one another, and linger into the present--combined with his celebration of multiplicity and cultural mingling, and his equal-opportunity curiosity that encompasses peasants and emperors alike.
In many ways, the problems with Leigh Fermor's perspective here are still the problems of white liberalism today.In the end, The Traveller's Tree left me feeling replete with a rich and varied journey - and in dire need of some writing by black Caribbean authors.
We see them meet the movers & shakers at bars or restaurants or their homes, or attend parties and witness voodoo rituals, from going to Jamaica (Bob Marley's hometown) and conversing with the marijuana smoking rastafari, looking at everything with a steady eye on an assignment delivering his thoughts, impressions, and gathered facts, to wandering beaches, in this well lengthed, vaguely mystical adventure in the non fiction realm.
Despite the other reviews there isn't much racism in here that I found, or maybe most offense missed me, as I thought the book mostly gave people what they want.
I began reading this travellers' survey of the Caribbean islands because it was mentioned in Live and Let Die as required reading for James Bond on voodoo.The voodoo-covering chapters on Haiti are probably the most narrative-driven of the whole selection, but they're not as serious as coverage by someone like Alfred Metraux or Maya Deren.
That's OK, though, as Fermor's now much-dated quaintness adds a touch of old-world observation to the proceedings that's not entirely unpleasant.
Some of the notes on racism - either in the islands or inherent in some of the author's comments - date it very badly, but the work fulfils that of great travel writing; it makes you want to see these places with your own eyes.
A present from a similarly geeky friend, since Ian Fleming quotes extensively from the Haiti section in  Live and Let Die. There's also a brief reference to Fleming's house on Jamaica, and probably the inspiration for  Doctor No's marching land crabs. All this aside, it was a fascinating read with a great deal of humour as well as writing that was beautifully descriptive without being too flowery.It was also highly educational; spotting a bottle of 'Red Leg' rum in the supermarket the other day, I was able to feel all superior because I knew who the Red Legs were.
Although he went to Cuba, Fermor says it wasn't included due to not being able to communicate with natives for the language barrier; he does mention Puerto Rico briefly.
Haiti is covered in great detail as the penultimate location; the rather drawn out discussion of voudou pretty much ended my interest in the book, so the reasonably brief final chapter on Jamaica got pretty much lost as a result.Glad I read it, though a bit of a haul (as opposed to a slog) to get through, with lots of details of colonial history!
I'm delighted to see this classic being republished. Whether sampling sour-sop fruit in the market, attending unusual religious ceremonies, visiting the lepers of Chacachacare, or describing the breeze-catching windows of Ian Fleming's house overlooking the sea in Jamaica, Fermor demonstrates a remarkable gift for getting into the cultures he visits, and taking us--the readers--along with him. Much of what he records has probably altered or vanished, but we can still visit these islands' recent past by reading The Traveller's Tree. And by re-reading it. The book is that good.
Brilliant. The last of the old world travelers, capturing the foment between a sumptuously violent past and precarious future of cultural free-for all. Not for the impatient of snobbish, polyglot vocabulary. But then again, he's always right in the money, and if there's the right word for something, why not use it?
Always game, and always sympathetic to the people he encounters, the whole thing can become wonderfully discursive, and frequently loses momentum as Paddy explores various blind alleys of history and art."...my neighbour, who had buttoned his fighting-cock into the bosom of his shirt so that only its hateful little cropped head appeared, began to discourse of religion.
'No more idols!' he said, and fell asleep.
The head of the cock, oscillating with the jolts of the bus, fixed me with a severe and bloodshot eye, which plainly stated that the same sentiments went for him too.
I am a huge fan of Fermor, especially his 2 and a half books about his walking trip across Europe before the war.
The Traveller's Tree was written after WWII, when Fermor took his wife and a photographer to the Caribbean, and tried to do for that part of the world what he did for Europe and the Greeks.
It won awards at the time and established Fermor as the travel writer of his generation.
He does get the politics of the waning days of colonialism right, but his understanding is directed toward the English and the French, not the citizens of the Caribbean.
Having read Fermor's three books on his trek across Europe as a young man and then his two volumes on Greece, I naturally thought this book would be of the same caliber. It is not. His writing isn't nearly as purple or twisty here as it is in his later writings. His tangents aren't as neatly developed. His travel companions are occasionally mentioned but are completely undeveloped. The section on Haiti, late in the book, finally shows him gaining his footing, but it's too little too late.
A bit of a cheat re: my reading challenge as I started this a couple years ago. I prefer (love) Fermor‘s trilogy about walking across Europe, but this is very enjoyable.
It was interesting to learn that the Carib indians found each type of European tasted different: "French people were considered delicious and by far the best of the Europeans, and next came the English.
114]At a certain point which would prove disastrous for many untold millions of people, the Spanish determined that the Carib people could not be subdued nor relied upon as a enslaved workforce, and they also refused to be christianized.
The ensuing horrors thence playing out differently, over the centuries, in each island, depending on it's history as a French, English, Dutch, or Spanish possession.
Here is the intense historical focus that would be the hallmark of his future books, but this time aimed at the Carribean islands.
Indirectly we also are exposed to a fraction of African history as contained in the section describing which specific tribes were enslaved by each individual European power.With this historical base firmly in place, Fermor goes on to explain how the various tribal backgrounds affected the creation of a common Creole tongue, how unity or lack thereof among disparate tribes affected each island's own war for independence.
As an aside, it appears that Fermor and Deren were in Haiti in the same 1947-1948 time frame.
There is incredible imagery in the words, I love being transported to a different place and time, through a turn of phrase or the generation of an image, you can almost taste the muggy jungle air or feel the tropical sun beat down on the beach - this is what kept me reading once I started!
The book IS from 1950 and that was a very different world.
There are just moments that jar - it's very interesting to read something out of its time and place but it's more work than the usual travelogue for sure.Also, I had to completely skip the section on cock fighting in Haiti - just could not do it!
Fermor describes his journeys around the Caribbean in the 1950s.
So whilst it does indeed describe certain of the islands, it is of great interest for what it says of the era rather than the islands.I chose to read only those chapters concerning islands that I have visited or will visit.
A journey to the northern tip of the island and back to Roseau was accomplished by boat followed by a donkey trek along undeveloped tracks through jungle and over mountains.
Again and again he would throw in an unusual but apt comparison (ex.: the motions of a carnival participant to a sea anenome.) I also found his conclusions to be pretty much as spot on today as they were that many years ago.He did spend a little too much time going over architectural details (peristyles, arches, etc.) for my taste.He ended this book and his travels to the Caribbean with a look forward to a new exotic location with its promised enjoyments, and that too is a fitting way to end my review.
PLF is unquestionably one of the finest writers ever.
He stands at the pinnacle of 'travel writing' which is an extremely poor genre to classify his writings.His depth of research, historical contexts, understanding of linguistics and cultures, phenomenal observational and descriptive skills are all interwoven with a flair for the English language.It's definitely not light-hearted, casual armchair travel reading.
I'll admit that there's so much information, depth and substance that I can't take in everything that he writes.
However, if you want to start getting a deeper understanding of the world, PLF is a good place to start.


Definitely exactly what it claims to be (a journey through the Caribbean islands), and while in no way does it compare with Time of Gifts, etc., if you like PLF and can deal with the fact that he was the product of a society which had very different standards than ours (by which I mean principally that his attitude towards the black and indigenous people in the Caribbean will make you unhappy at times--it's a bit "look at the dear little inferiors playing at life", although undoubtedly it could be much worse), it's a rather fun rambling read.
Now definitely of historical interest - everything has changed so much. I would have liked more about Cuba, but the bit about Haiti was particularly interesting.He tries SO hard to be non-racist and is appalled by racism he sees, but when he's trying to be nice about the Afro-Caribbean locals, he does come across as patronising. His encounter with the new Rastafarians is funny though, as they desperately try to justify their non-existent links to Ethiopia and dismiss anything he says as "white man's lies".
A fascinating vintage tour of the Caribbean BEFORE tourists, cruise ships and resorts. The author island hops by inter-island trading vessles, "aereoplanes" and steamship. Written in 1950 it is a view of the Caribbean that is gone forever. An in depth history, an incrdible journey that ranges from the literate to the adventurous, the author mingles with people of all colors and social status.
Interesting travel bookVery well written, entertaining and still relevant for today's traveler. I thoroughly enjoyed reading it even though I have not traveled through the Carribean.
3.5 stars, if it were possible. Written in the later forties, this is not at all Fermor's best work, but it's still wonderful, full of weird observations, with hints here and there of the wizardish prose he manages in later books.
My least favorite of Fermor's books. Still enjoyable, but there's a lack of connection with the people and, to a lesser though still important extent, the places which made his other books so excellent.
Fermor's first travel book.
I'm not really in the mood for Patrick at the moment. I could really do with Maugham or Waugh, but The Traveller's Tree will have to do on a long multi-stop quicky planning trip to Phuket this week.
