https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2915573-the-diary-of-a-country-parson-1758-1802
And Parson Woodforde's diary does that better than any of the other books I have read.
If one develops a taste for Parson Woodforde after reading a single-volume paperback, that taste can be gratified by reading what is available on-line and slowly buying the various volumes of the 17-book, complete edition.
Parson Woodforde in Wikipedia is here: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/James_Wo....
The Parson Woodforde Society (sponsors of the only complete edition of Parson Woodeforde's diary) can be found at: http://www.parsonwoodforde.org.uk/.
For those interested in reading this and other diaries (as I am) the following is a useful website: http://www.pikle.co.uk/diaryjunction.....Enjoy.
This is an account of a life lived but not a terribly exciting one and perhaps this is what makes it - that is, Parson Woodforde, so endearing.
I will sorely miss reading this book for this sort of 'innocence' - for the want of a better word.
However it is also - accidentally - a sober account of the lives of the poor and the harsh weather that froze women on their way to their market, caused birds to drop dead out of the sky and tamed ravens enough to stand at the kitchen door hoping to be fed alongside the poultry.
Although Woodforde often liberally sprinkles his diary with uneventful minutia about his personal dietary preferences and the domestic round, I was intrigued by the sheer unadorned candour of his entries which make the man almost endearing across the centuries. Diary of a Country Parson, 1758-1802
It is so self effacing, filled with amusing episodes of country life and as an informal record of those times is without peer.
The Tooth-Ache so very bad all night and the same this morn’ that I sent for John Reeves the Farrier who often draws Teeth for People, to draw one for me.
A great pain in the Jaw Bone continued all Day and Night but nothing so bad as the Tooth Ache...”In addition, this record is filled with drawings of buildings and country scenes which, with a forward by John Julius Norwich, adds immeasurably to the text.
The truth is that I first read Diary of a Country Parson, in the late seventies.
James Woodforde was born in 1740 and the diary begins in 1758 he spends his entire life between Somerset, Oxford and Norfolk.
James Woodforde is very much a priest of his times and believes in the honesty and goodness of his fellow man, giving a 6d or shilling to the needy and deserving, happy in the pulpit, though being careful to note those "not at church today." On the other hand, he enjoys the country lifestyle, with his coursing of Hares and fishing of food for the table.
James Woodforde is my hero!
He may have led a 'little life' but he left us with a rich source of information about the minutiae of life as an 18th century country parson.
Most people probably haven't heard of him, but anyone who studies the 18th century will find him cropping up in an amazing variety of contexts.
I confess to being choked up at the end when he was still writing the diary despite being very ill.
The odd thing is that there is no change to the tone in which he writes from beginning to end.
I have the Glasgow Herald to thank for bringing this to my attention ...
I think in one of their end of year reviews of contributors favourite books.
Managed to find a copy lurking in the storeroom of the library I work in and just got drawn into the ordinary life of this country parson...
much of it it has to be said is details of his meals!
But having ahealthy appetite myself it was of interest.
From a social history prespective it gives an insight into the lives of his class and also his neighbours, servants, the local poor, etc.
This is such a treasure, a detailed and absorbing account of life in 18th century England. There wasn't a single page of this diary that I didn't find fascinatiing! I would recommend this to anyone who enjoys English history but especially to those who love Frances Burney, Maria Edgeworth, Jane Austen and that 20th century Regency writer, Georgette Heyer.
A treasure of historical trivia. No mention of the American revolt [aka American Revolution], but much of gluttony, 'largesse' [sic.] aka parsimony to this reader. Servants treated as servants should be. Arcane pecking orders. Adam Smith rules - brutally. Women = chattels. Sloth! What's not to enjoy?
If you think binge drinker is just a 20/21st century phenomenon amongst the English, then read this and you will find you are quite wrong. Also if you need to know what was being eaten and drunk in the 18th century then this is the diary for you.
This is a wonderful snapshot of English country life in the late 18th century. You can just open this book to any page and find something interesting.
Interesting insight into some rural life of the eighteenth century but not quite as riveting as Kilvert's Diary or 'Anne Hughes - Her Boke'.
This was a very simple read but I loved how he references the big moments of the time like Bastill Day and the French Revolution including Napolean's wars to conquer land and kingdoms.
A simple and unaffeced account of Norfolk parish life in which parish ministry goes hand-in-hand with roast beef and a mild wonder at the way society is changing around him.
