https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/833962.Makers_of_Modern_Strategy_from_Machiavelli_to_the_Nuclear_Age
A superb listing of essays the idea of 'grand strategy', which is a distinct field of analysis from just history, political science, or even economics.
Part five covers the evolution of nuclear strategy through the 1980s.The book focuses on the makers of modern strategy, after all, so there are strong biographical elements in addition to more abstract concepts.
It is a readable history, but also a sound reference work.One side note - one of the essays on early Soviet strategy from the 1920s to the Second World War was written by none other than future Secretary of State Condoleeza Rice.
If all you want is a simple military history text, this book is not for you. But if you are a student of worldwide military strategy from the last couple centuries, it is a good, very thorough read.I did not give it 4 stars in that I felt it was not a very "easy" read. I often found that I had to reread passages to fully "soak in" what was printed. On the whole though, it was a good, informative read.
A collection of essays on military history, strategy, and strategies starting with Machiavelli in the 16th century all the way to the end of the Cold War. Every major military leader and thinker in Western history during this time period is there and topics are varied enough so that it is not always Army tactics that are covered.
In spite of its age and length, this was a great read and I highly recommend it to anyone interested in the development of modern, Western military strategy over the centuries.
The bible of stragetic thought. It needs updating, with some post cold-war analysis. It is still the single best volume of western military thought. I have read the book numerous times and it still remains solid
Initially, I was very excited for this sweeping 871 page compilation of military strategy from over 25 expert contributors.
However, by about 200 pages in, it became clear that I was NOT going to come away from this book with tried-and-true principals that I could transplant from military strategy to everyday life.
I learned almost nothing from this book, and really should have stopped reading it around page 200.
Silver lining: This was a good lesson in opportunity cost, and hopefully going forward I’ll have the balls to leave books like this I finished instead of forcing myself through hundreds of pages that were neither useful nor entertaining.
This was a mandatory read on the list for United States Army Command & General Staff College.
However, I graduated from the American public school system several years ago and I was not immediately invested in reading mandatory material.While another book on our list, The Dynamics of Military Revolution, 1300-2050, ambitiously covered 700 years in only 194 pages, this book set out to cover roughly 500 years in 871 pages of actual text.
This book provided great insight in the tactics, operations, and strategy of great military officers and their celebrated armies.
A great survey of the many aspects of strategy that have affected military conflict in the past 500 years. A great starting point for any student of military history who seeks a deeper understanding of the factors involved in pushing forward campaigns and war. Highly recommended.
Lot of redundant information as the book bundles a number of papers.
You can read this from cover to cover if you like, or choose a section that interests you and start there. Both a comprehensive overview of the development of modern strategy (mostly military, but does get into diplomacy and economics for some periods) and a good reference tool for students of military science, history, and international relations. The most recent edition covers post-Cold War.
This is a great resource and overview of classic strategy. It was first published in 1943, and has been updated about every generation or so. It gets down to the nitty gritty on the major strategists such as Clausewitz, Jomini, Mahan, etc. This should be in every strategist's library.
I only read Clausewitz though
Very interesting read for those of you who like to decipher how our military leadership has developed some of its current tactics
I've been meaning to read this book for years!
Impressive in all respects even when considering the latest edition is from 1986.
Most of the essays contained in this volume are excellent!
almost as though it a were a reader for a military strategy course, though I miss the ancient writings.
