https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2329026.Beyond_Sing_the_Woods
It is always interesting to read something about a culture you're not fammilar with, especially if it happens to be a great book.
There are some many aspect of Norwegian culture that are interesting and this novel was a great introduction into it.This novel is the first novel of trilogy, but even if you don't plan to read all three novels you can read this one.
I've read this novel in a Croatian translation so I guess that the original must be even better.
I inherited this book from my mother in a beautiful leather bound version. It is a very old story and by considering the Amazon listing and how little there is to be known about this Norwegian author unfortunately clearly largely forgotten author. The writing is beautifully poetic about a way of life which I am sure has disappeared in modern Norway, but might still have an influence on it's culture. Would recommend this to anyone who can get hold of a second hand copy of this book, which is also available in English.
Apbrīnojami. Grāmata bez gandrīz nekādas aktīvas darbības, bet neiespējami nolikt malā. Cilvēki. Attiecības. Procesi. Prāta mežģi. Pārdomas. Ļoti bagāta.
The pace is a bit slow for modern reader but that is a quality at the same time. It's so pleasant to dive into the past, not only of the plot but also of a time when a writer was writing. Back then, books ought to have more then a dynamics: moral standards, characters with integrity, strong families...Even when I rated it only with three stars, I'm so happy it came to me. It reminds me of some other world, full of faults but with better standards. At least in literature.
One it reminds me in many ways of the work of another Norwegian author Knut Hamsun, although I prefer this book to anything by Hamsun that I have read to date.
The family is supposedly descended from the old time chieftains and behaves in a proud noble way for the most part.
Really they were a throw back to the old time Pagan chieftains in many ways, where the leaders were owed something by the people who lived in their lands, but there was also a give and take where they were not exploiters of the land and people but overseers and protectors.
A rodinná sága odohrávajúca sa v drsnom severskom prostredí znela veľmi lákavo.
Ide o rodinnú ságu, príbeh jednej rodiny, ktorá žije na severe, hlboko v lesoch a prežíva tak, ako to robilo niekoľko generácií pred nimi.
Otcovia, synovia, ich deti, všetci pracujú na tom, aby zveľaďovali rodinný majetok, statok, lesy, zvieratá a snažia sa, ako najlepšie vedia, aby tým generáciám za nimi niečo zanechali.
Ale v tomto drsnom prostredí nemôže prežiť ktokoľvek, ich povahy sú rovnako drsné ako príroda, s ktorej nástrahami musia každodenne bojovať.
Ukázal nám ako sa ľudia správajú, ako reagujú, keď sú sami a ako so samotou a inými neduhmi života uprostred drsnej prírody bojujú.
An enchanting return to the epic form of pre-modern Germanic narrative, especially for those who feel a kinship to the Northern archetype. Crafted with enough specificity of detail, yet enough vagueness of time and space, to ensure complete suspension of disbelief and transport the reader effortlessly into its world (which embeds a core of mystical imagination beneath a solid ground of realistic historicity.) One of the few favorites of my teen years that has held up to re-reading as an adult; in fact, it's gotten better.
Tohle bylo tak milé. Sever zase trochu jinak. Není to knížka plná akce, spíš tak plyne a ukazuje nám osud především jednoho rodu, boj s přírodou, sňatky, touha po moci, po penězích, ... Já si to moc užila a určitě si dočtu i další díly.
Iako je glavni lik otac porodice Dag Bjorndal koga pratimo od njegove mladosti pa do početka starosti pisac stalno menja perspektivu pripovedanja, pa tako zadire u misli svih aktera.
Susret raznih vaspitanja i načina života, uticaji jednih na druge, drevne svađe i krvne osvete sve ovo čini radnju knjige.
Sa jedne strane ova knjiga pokazuje da su u mnogo čemu slični nama, naročito našim brdskim predelima jer klima i priroda uslovljava razvoj određenih karakternih crta kod ljudi.
Sa druge strane, deluje potpuno nestvarno.
Stvara sliku surovih planina okovanih zimom i netaknutih ljudskom rukom, iluziju jednog života čija tradicija seže vekovima unazad.
Absolute wereldklasse!
Drsny zivot v severskych lesoch opisany krasnym poetickym sposob...proste nadherne.Clovek ostane este dlho po precitani v uzase sediet a rozjimat.
It was my 70 years old cousin who recommended me this book and it was my dad who kept reminding me that I should read it.
And he was absolutely right!The story is compelling, narration is brilliant as well as the descriptions of characters internal struggles, scale of their emotions, thoughts and feelings.
When you put those three together you get one pretty amazing book.I'm currently finishing the 2nd book and already feeling sorry that there's only one left.
I strongly recommend this book to anyone who wants to read a great piece of literature, I'll have to re-read it at some point for sure.
Kārtējais ķeksītis „Lielās lasīšanas top 100” sarakstā.Šī noteikti ir tā tipa grāmata, par kuru es no sirds gribētu, lai man tā patiktu: tā ir sarakstīta patiesi krāšņā valodā, tai ir patiesi dziļa jēga un tā noteikti papildinājusi daudzas jo daudzas citātu krātuves.
Protams, ka pēc 50 lapām es sapratu, ka nekas nenotiks, šī ir lasi un baudi tekstu tipa grāmata – bet jā, man tas tā īsti nekad neizdodas.Iespējams, ka citā laikā man grāmata patiktu ļoti, jo objektīvi redzu, ka ir daudz laba, bet nu jā, šobrīd tā nav grāmata man.
Dag Björndal was and is one of my biggest literary crushes, strong, silent and beautiful like all his family, rooted high up in Norway's mountains and forests. I'm not sure about the time the story is set in, my guess would be mid- to late 1800s.And it's not just about romance. It's about strong men and women, honour, responsibility and compassion. I love this book. I've read it numerous times and never tire of it.
There was so much incorporated into this story, it is hard to know just where to begin. There is love and loss, anger and forgiveness, prejudice and acceptance, longing and searching. I guess it's just well written life-in-a-nutshell.
The book might not look like it, might not sound like it, yet it's an amazing piece of literature and I couldn't help but be caught in the saga. I could hardly tear myself away from it, the same applies for the second book.
At that point I had no idea what I would find in this book, or where it would take me, the only thing I knew was that it had something to do with the things unsaid and that was all I needed to know.
How does one keep the family tradition alive confronted with new times?This is exactly the question this book tries to answer, and while the answer can be found in an absolute maxim we often hear, why is it so hard to come to its understanding?When at the end you put down the book there are no more questions left to be asked, the only thing that is left is to look to a new tomorrow and not forget what we learned today.A simple, yet unforgettable novel one shouldn't miss!
Mulle väga meeldib lugeda perekondade lugusid.
Nagu "Ogalinnud" ja "Hommikupool Eedenit" näiteks.Ega iga perelugu, mis ulatub läbi põlvkondade, ei pruugi ju olla hea iseenesest, kuid norra sajanditagune lugu on seda küll.Hea raamatu mõõdupuu on minu arust see, kas punnitad seda lugeda või ei suuda käest panna."Ja taamal laulavad metsad" on kindlasti selline, mis endasse haarab.
See lugu paneb mõtlema, tundub väga eriline, kuid on samas tavapärasest maast ja tavapärastest inimestest.Mulle, muide, sattus kätte 1950.
Imestasin, kuidas küll see kirjanduselu oli välismaal sellal aktiivne.
Keegi on võtnud Kanada väliseesti kogukonda tõlkida raamatu kaugest Norrast.Kuid on valinud hea raamatu ja soovitan teistelgi lugeda.
Exactly the Christian denomination my family came from.I found a second hand translation and really enjoyed the book.
The naturalism, the epic story, the weird Norwegian traditions.
And through all that it breathes the very atmosphere from my (grand-)parents' homes, with the typical ethical questions about what the right thing to do is, in the context of a traditional Christianity that is almost unquestionable.Even though I feel I am beyond that tradition, this book still appealed strongly to that ethical foundation that my life is built on, thanks to my parents and grandparents.
It is there, where tradition continues.
Zal in de jaren dertig van de vorige eeuw wel een heel romantisch en mysterieus boek geweest zijn. Ik vond het bij momenten heel leuk, maar de historische kloof wordt een beetje te groot Het Nederlands is dan ook erg funny, wat soms afbreuk doet aan de lijn van het verhaal. Maar ik vind dat ik af e toe zo eens iets moet lezen...
A nostalgic journey in time and space to Norwegian forests of the late 18th century. This novel beatifully mixes the best scandinvian saga-telling tradition with picturesque descriptions of the nature and people's hearts. One of my favourite books ever!
Like one of the previous reviewers I also inherited a beautiful old copy of this book from my other and I loved it. Beautifully written with a great aw moment at the end.
previše mi on tu šumicu opisuje
3.5 stars.A little dated, the first half was quite hard to get through. But after that it got really addictive. Excited to start part two.
I love this book... <3
Eesti "Tõde ja õigus" Norra minimalistlikus stiilis.
Kniha mne trochu zklamala. Doufala jsem, že to bude podobné Šmahelové mlynářské sérii. Bohužel.
Zvláštní jakoby dokumentární styl autora je neobvyklý a mnohdy mě zaskočil. Ale nelze, než pokračovat ve čtení dalších dílů.
I read this book a very long time ago and loved it so much (and its sequels).This is a reminder for me to read it again!
Obľúbená kniha môjho dedka, ku ktorej by som sa inak asi nedostala. Severský príbeh so všetkým, čo k tomu patrí - čestnými, priamymi a drsnými postavami, úchvatnou prírodou, tradíciami a koreňmi, láskou a súcitom. Kniha, ktorá si ma podmanila.
