https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1294298.Growing_Up
Thirkell's classist and xenophobic tendencies are held in check here for the most part, and when things seem particularly fey or twee, the characters usually comment on it (Cold Comfort Farm is a touchstone).
And as usual, Thirkell does not neglect the older generations: Mrs. Morland makes a very funny cameo appearance, as does Lord Stoke, and the Warings get considerable and sympathetic page time.
What I particularly like about Thirkell's best novels is the way she is able to conjure an era which, while admittedly airbrushed of any major conflicts between groups and classes, does convincingly reflect some of the best of the people of that time.
World War II is raging on and the train station is not what it used to be, what with female porters, London evacuees turned petty thieves, no more ladies' waiting room and Sir Harry and Lady Waring living downstairs in their own home.
More than one couple will be affianced before the end of the novel.It was such a delight to catch up with Lydia and Noel, Philip, Geraldine and Tommy, Mrs. Morland and Tony and other characters from previous novels.
The plot of the novel is a little complicated with several characters playing major roles but after I weeded the soldiers out and got to know the new characters, I enjoyed it very much.
Lydia and her husband Noel (already introduced in previous books; Lydia is deservedly a favorite character of other reviewers) come to stay with the Warings while Noel is posted on some type of military duty.
Love it when Mrs. Morland, the extremely self-doubting and fairly incoherent author, comes to give an edifying lecture to the convalescing soldiers.I think I have reached the point in Thirkell novels where, since so many of her characters are recurring, or at least related by marriage to other characters, I no longer feel like there are too many people.
And the message, the way Mrs. Thirkell showed us her characters (so much loved by me) was priceless.I was really happy to meet again Lydia, Noel, Philip, Tony (yes!
And I agree with Lydia completely:...no one is really grown-up...There was love, waiting for letters from kin soldiers, coupons, all we had in three previous novels.There was also Thirkell's wit (I burst into laughter a few times):...she came down a little late owing to a misunderstanding with her lipstick which had not satisfied her and had to be wiped off and put on again twice....the villain was to have been Brazilian and then they seemed to be becoming allies so I had to change him.
But ah for a more innocent age, when middle-aged spinsters could call their cats "pussy" and the following exchange could be made with a perfectly straight face:"I recall you used to love to ride the cock on the carousel.""I still adore cocks, but I'm married now."One of the biggest problems of this book is that it is one in an apparently interminable series, and it is so stuffed with references to incidents and persons in other books that it's rather like attending the high school reunion of someone you don't know very well to start with.
Angela Thirkell wrote a couple of dozen of books about the high and low society of the fictional county of Barsetshire.
The war is never discussed directly, but one of Angela Thirkell's talents is to show how it affects those who are left behind.
There are two young women in the book whose beloved brothers are far away; the waiting for letters that always come too late is a constant motif throughout the story.
The men don't always welcome this new independence, and the stationmaster's despair at having to deal with two talkative and irreverent young women as porters is funny but revealing of the prejudices of the times.
I read these books for the light, dry British humor, delightful characters and as corny as it sounds, a look at a vanished world - life in the English countryside in the golden years between world wars, which characters here silently lament but bravely endure with typical British stiff upper lips amid the amazing hardships, shortages and deprivations people cheerfully put up with for the war effort.
America has been in two 10-year wars simultaneously and there has been no sacrifice asked or given except for a very tiny portion of the population that serves in the armed forces; I can't imagine modern Americans or Brits putting up with the conditions civilians endured in WWII!
Lydia has been following her husband Noel Merton to each of his military postings, and now they have rooms in the home of General Waring (Cecil's uncle, from whom he will inherit the estate now hosting the Mertons).
Also in the household is Cecil's sister Leslie, recovering from a breakdown after surviving the destruction of her ship while crossing the Atlantic.
Lydia is her usual loveable but a more disciplined self, always eager to help; now she can help Leslie.
Leslie isn't yet emotionally strong enough to handle a romance, and almost drives Phillip Winter away.

Lydia is now grown up and married, and she and her husband are the secondary stars of this book.
But the Warings are the the chief stars - Sir Harry, Lady Waring, and their niece Leslie.
Philip, who was formerly engaged to Rose Birkett several books ago) also makes an important appearance.
The general theme of the book is how the young people have grown up and are still growing up, with Thirkell's trademark humor and talent for language.
My favorite line this one (from memory, so probably paraphrased) is when Philip says something "in a low passionate voice, which gave the impression of stifled croup."
Not one of Thirkell's most sparkling books, but an interesting view of the start of WWII on the home front. I got a very old edition with a 1960's cover (not the one shown) and the back blurb was entertaining, as the writer clearly was trying to cram Thirkell into a mode of romance novel that she just doesn't fit.
Found this Angela Thirkell novel I'd not read at a book sale. It's set during WW II and stars all the usuals from Winter Overcoates and Barchester. The interwoven stories of all the characters, upstairs and downstairs, is a marvel.I am continually awed by the amount of sacrifice Brits made during and long after the war.
Intrigue during The Blitz in London; who do you/can you trust?
Possibly my fave.
It was fun, a nice escape from work. Not heavy literature, but amusing.
This is one of my favorites of Thirkell's books--the tone is more sombre and thoughtful, while still maintaining the humor that is so enjoyable.
In this most satisfactory novel, Thirkell continues following the residents of Barsetshire as they live through WWII.
Growing Up focuses mainly on the twenty-somethings living in Winter Overcotes, as they take on adult responsibilities and grow out of childish thinking.
Thirkell writes with humor, charm, and just a bit of snark, which makes her books a true pleasure to read.
They must be read in order, though, so as to keep up with the characters.
If you like a gentle read, and have any interest in England in the 1930's and 1940's, I certainly recommend this series.
(High Rising begins the series.)
Angela Thirkell has become an addiction. Have almost finished her Barsetshire series, but read the books out of order; and like the NYT reviewer, I'd like to reread the series of thirty something volumes in chronological order. The books are very much the same, but if you respond to her witty and hapless county worthies, it is great fun. It's been a nice change from my reading obsession with British crime. Hope some new ones are out there waiting for me.
Thirkell’s books are definitely more enjoyable when they are set pre-Welfare State and she’s not condemning the Labour Government and the NHS. And in this one her landed gentry are still living in their own home, albeit in the servants quarters while a hospital takes over the main part of the building, so we’re not expected to grieve for wealthy people who can no longer live exactly as all their ancestors did. Still a bit Upstairs Downstairs, but not too bad.
I loved this one because we got to see so many characters from Summer Half. Lydia Keith Merton is such a delight!
The story was pleasant, the writing good, it was just somehow flat. Maybe just not my thing.
What fun. A good old-fashioned English country-side romance.
The one about PTSD and babies.
