https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/48741.The_Ringmaster_s_Secret

It begins with Nancy taking trick riding lessons from a former circus performer and a mysterious package arriving in the mail from Nancy's Aunt Eloise.
Aunt Eloise also presents Nancy with a bit of a mystery, telling her in an accompanying letter that the shopkeeper told her that the bracelet had originally been given to a circus performer by a queen.
Then the Sims circus comes to town and Nancy discovers that the young circus star, Lolita, is very unhappy--practically a prisoner of her foster parents, Ringmaster Kroon and his wife.
How likely is it that Nancy, after a few lessons, would be expert enough at trick bareback riding to sub for a regular performer?
Arguably the most non-Nancy Drew book of the series. She actually joins a circus! Very weird and un-Nancy Drew, but a must read for fans of the series.
My first Nancy Drew book is The Sign of the Twisted Candles and it remains as my absolute favorite from the bunch.
Their views towards gender roles are way different than today so keep in mind the time period these were written before making judgments.The blurb for The Ringmaster’s Secret, as with a lot of Nancy Drew books, is pretty straightforward.
The story starts out with Nancy getting horse-riding lessons.
But there’s always a happy ending with these books.
Not to mention a bit of shameless plug for the next installment.It doesn’t matter how absurd these Nancy Drew stories sound like sometimes.
It practically has a cooch tent.Nancy is a skilled equestrienne, and recently took up stunt riding.
Thus, she was a natural replacement for an injured circus stunt rider, and could hide out while trying to solve a mystery.Nancy loses consciousness when she falls off a horse.
She loses consciousness a *third* time when someone throws a blanket over her head, then binds and gags her and George and throws them on a train headed out of town.
Later, someone puts deadly acid in Nancy's carry-on bag and the fumes temporarily blind her.Some other guy gets beaten almost to death.
Nancy's aunt sends her a bracelet and tells her there is a mystery surrounding it.
When the circus comes to town and Nancy meets an amazing aerialist who was brought up by cruel adoptive parents, the owners of the circus, Nancy discovers that the aerialist and the bracelet are connected.
She proceeds to investigate.The Nancy Drew Mysteries are such great books.
My 8 year old recently discovered them and she loves them.
She gets so excited with every passing chapter and loves to tell me her new theories on who did it.There is a reason these books are classic.
What can I say about this series that I haven't already said?
Nancy becomes an expert trick rider in this one (because of course she does) and finds herself embroiled in a mystery with the Sims Circus that has come to River Heights.
This was a particularly violent one with near strangulations, kidnapping, rocks being thrown at horses in order to throw their riders, and a seriously twisted wife and husband duo who steal an 8 year old girl, Lolita, after her father is killed in an aerialist accident, and her mother seriously injured with amnesia (presumed dead by all).
What's the point in having a library if you only ever read what you have once?
This book is about another mystery including Nancy Drew . One day one of Nancy's aunts bought Nancy a bracelet with 5 horses on it but it was missing one horse . Nancy's aunt has heard about the bracelet's past . The story is that a famous circus performer has owned that bracelet for a long time , she soon died so she gave it to her daughter . The lady's daughter lost her bracelet, but the thrift shop owner got it as a gift but wanted to sell it. In Nancy's hometown every year they have a circu
Nancy's aunt has heard about the bracelet's past .
The story is that a famous circus performer has owned that bracelet for a long time , she soon died so she gave it to her daughter .
The lady's daughter ¨lost¨ her bracelet, but the thrift shop owner got it as a gift but wanted to sell it.
In Nancy's hometown every year they have a circus come perform for a week .
The ringmaster's daughter is the famous performer who ¨died¨.
The ringmaster took the bracelet to sell it , because he wants more money .
Out of all the Nancy Drew books I have read, this is one of the best.
The descriptive words the ghost writer uses are so well chosen, it takes the book to a whole 'nother level.
All 178 pages of this novel reveal details and clues like never before.
The main thing that I enjoy about these novels are the suspense and the cliff hangers that make you want to keep reading and reading.
It feels like you can't put down the book without feeling guilty.
Because I really enjoy these novels, I will continue to read them until I finish the series.
A circus comes to town, and Nancy is faced with a mystery to solve. A good mystery for kids.
This was a good book, it didn't take me to long to read and it was sometimes hard to put down.
This Nancy drew mystery came to me as an answer to all my dissappointments of my previous reads.
I really liked it.
The book is UNBELIEVABLE and by that I mean literally unbelievable but still I enjoyed it.
This book really has the potential to keep the person hooked and gives a nice feeling once its finished.As I mentioned it was unbelievable like many other Nancy drew stories with Nancy herself becoming a circus performer a skilled equestrienne and also a ventriloquist.But despite of all the odd coincidences and Nancy drew's perfectionism in whatever she does ,this book is one good read.
YIKES! Sneering, unsubtle villains, plots so thin they're see-through, and Nancy, always Nancy - who could not possibly be more perfect or talented or virtuous. Ah, Nancy....did you ever have but *one* single flaw? Shelved under 'I-Can't-Even' 2 Stars
In re-reading these as an adult, I find so many stereotypes and prejudices that I didn’t notice as a child. I still enjoy the mystery. I also recognize that these are a product of their time period. For her time period, Nancy Drew was revolutionary, but she was still a bit of a conformist.
Boy Nancy Drew can do anything! She can bare back ride, perform in a circus, get off a moving train, and even knows ventriloquism! ha ha. This was book was pretty over the top even for a Nancy Drew. Still an entertaining diversion though.
4.25 stars
Fun read but definitely juvenile.
Excellent story. The cruel ringmaster comes off every bit the bastard he is.
a very nice book for those who are in search of Nancy drew's mystery stories.
Even though it is so impossible, I have always (and still) wanted to be her and do what she does!
FIRST book I read by myself.
Interseting
I was truly engrossed in this book. I tried to put it down but kept picking it back up. A truly escapist book.
The Ringmaster's Secret  is a children's story by Carolyn Keene (pseudonym) and the 31st book in the  Nancy Drew  series. After receiving a horse-charm bracelet as a gift, eighteen-year-old Nancy is drawn into a mystery surrounding the identity of a performer with the Sims' Circus. Can Nancy solve the mystery and reunite a mother and daughter? I’ve always been a voracious reader. So, as a child, one of my favorite things about summer was the frequent trips to our local library, which was less t
Can Nancy solve the mystery and reunite a mother and daughter?
And as I would read her most current adventure, I would imagine myself following in her footsteps … taking charge and plunging ahead, getting into mischief, chasing down culprits and solving the mystery.
Even though I haven’t re-read any of these books since I was a child, I still think that Nancy is a great character—her courage, confidence and fierce independence, makes her an iconic source of inspiration for young girls everywhere.
A must-read children's book, 
is another wonderful Nancy Drew mystery.
This book was so good i enjoyed reading it . Mr. Reinald Kroon did seem a bit scary . He sure wanted Nancy out of the way.
I thought the mystery story was good.
I thought it was good to have Nancy to be a girl or the person finding out the secret to the story.
I think that this is a great starter for young girls my younger sister loves these books and working her way through a lot of them already.
I think they are good book for the young readers to get their minds thinking.
This story was about Nancy finding out the mystery of the girl in the circus her mom and why they were not together.
Nancy is an expert at everything including circus-star-level stunt riding after a few lessons.
The villain does various villainous things in an attempt to deter Nancy from her investigation, but of course that doesn't get her off the trail (and just racks up more crimes than he would've had charged against him if he's just not bothered, d'uh).I remember reading this one as a kid, but I don't remember if I liked it or not.
This time, Nancy's over-the-top skill and perfection seem a bit too obvious, so I didn't like it as well as several of the older books.
Nancy could have used....
a helmet, protective vest, and either an explanation or a way to count horse gaits...
Which breed are we talking about?
Walk, trot, canter, gallop...
I come up with 4 at most.
HOWEVER, that doesn't include jog, lope, rack, running walk, fox trot, flat walk, dog walk, tolt, slow gait, paso largo, and a whole host of other gaits for other breeds!
There are a TON more than 5, but if you are talking your "normal" non-gaited horse, there are less than 5...
So. I wanna know...
what 5 was she considering when she answered Hannah's question?!
I remember the first time I read Nancy Drew.
It blew my mind that there were girls presented with a brain.
Most of the stuff I'd read up to that time, was that girls were sugar and spice - fluffy.
No brains.
To also learn about George who is a tomboy was a nice validation.
Carolyn Keene wrote just for me!
That is how I felt.
When I did more research, I was shocked to find out, Ms. Keene was actually a man ...
I also loved the Hardy Boys.
No wonder I loved these series.Great for girls aged 8 and up.
