https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/4894.Who_Moved_My_Cheese_
SPOILER ALERT! I am going to save anyone who thinks they need to read this book time & money by summarizing the entire book in the next two sentences: Things change. Learn to adapt.You're welcome. If you still feel the need to spend money please contact me & I will tell you where to send it.
I don't speak Spanish.I don't know whether the authors of this book have an employer, but if they do, I would recommend a "random" drug test.This book is about a team of two mice and a team of two minature exectives who each slide into a pair of size 0.005 sneakers and run through a maze in search of cheese.
And that is the intelligent part of the book...For the remainder of the book, we get to listen in on a group of friends discuss how the philosophy behind this epic tale of missing cheese relates to their lives.
This is a book about victimized lower and middle class mice trapped in a corporate capitalist maze, forced by The Man to scurry around, looking for "The Cheese" (salary, 401K, maybe even decent PPO or HMO).
So what are the mice supposed to do?
They are supposed to change directions and start running around looking for THE CHEESE in some other part of the maze.
Inferior quality CHEESE, no doubt--maybe more of a PROCESSED CHEESE FOOD, without the employer-matched 401K, sans health insurance.
Scurry, scurry, little mice!
Find your CHEESE before Wall Street and NASDAQ move it again!
If your boss gives you this to read find a new job.
فكرة الكتاب ملخصة في مقدمته :من الذي حرك قطعة الجبن الخاصه بي ؟ هي حكايه رمزيه ذات مغزى اخلاقي تكشف اعمق الحقائق حول التغيير ، انها قصه مسليه تنويريه تدور حول اربعه اشخاص يعيشون في متاهة ويبحثون عن قطع الجبن التي تمدهم بالغذاء وبالسعاده أيضاً .اثنان منهم فأران يطلق عليهما سنيف و سكوري والاثنان الآخران قزمان في حجم الفئران ولكنهما يتصرفان كالبشر ويدعيان هيم و هاو والجبن ماهو الا استعاره مجازيه عما تريد أن تحققه في حياتك سواء أكان وظيفه مرموقه أو علاقه حب أو مركز أو صحه جيده أو سلام العقل و الروحو المتاهه هي مجاز عن المكان الذي تبحث فيه عما تريد كالمؤسسة التي تعمل بها أو العائله أو المجتمع الذي تعيش فيهالكتاب يقع في 18 صفحة ، وفكرة الكتاب ممتعة جداً والقصه بسيطه و عميقة أيضاً ، ستجد نفسك و أنت تقرأ ترسم بعض المواقف التي مرت بك وإن كانت الطرق مختلفة ولكن القصه تجعلك تقرأ مابين الأسطر ، حين تقترب من النهاية ستجد أنك بدأت تصنف نفسك مابين شخصيات القصة ، يُقال أن القصة غيرت حيوات أشخاص كثر وأظن أنا بأنها ستخلّصك من الخوف وتجعلك تتقبل التغيير بل وتقبل إليه ..
It requires a unique sort of demonic skill to take the utterly obvious, lather it with sentimentality, turn it into an animal story, give it a big font and wide margins so that what really ought to be a pamphlet handed out for free on subways becomes instead a "book," and then expect businesspeople to buy it.Which they did. God help us all.
An Amazing Way to Deal with Change in Your Work and in Your Life, published on September 8, 1998, is a motivational business fable.
The text describes change in one's work and life, and four typical reactions to those changes by two mice and two "little people" during their hunt for cheese.
همگی گاهی همچو اسنیف عمل میکنیم، کسانی که تغییرات را زود بو میکشند؛ یا همچون اسکوری به سرعت وارد عمل میشویم.
گاه همانند « هم » میشویم، که با انکار تغییرات رودرروی آنها میایستیم، چرا که میترسیم به سمت چیزی بدتر کشیده شویم.
Change or get run over !A great many people have recommended this particular one to me; I did not read.[Self discovering it from your collection I found out why.
Adapting and forecasting change lurking around the corner is mark of sheer greatness.The best quote perhaps was curbing the wrong interpretations that might be drawn out : that you should try behaving in a new way in the same relationship.
If you love your partner, let them know about it in a million different ways that change everyday.Novelty is what keeps things moving.The story is perfectly written and takes up one hour of your life but may just give you a knowledge of a lifetime.
However, it was recently recommended to me because I mentioned that I'm not especially enthusiastic about change.I wish I could un-read this book.
Sometimes you're supposed to stay alert and guarded, and be ready for action.The question I wish the author had addressed (instead of coming up with platitudes in praise of change) is this: What is the balance between working to improve what you have (repairing) vs.
looking for something new (replacing)?Adaptation and flexibility are all well and good, but sometimes life is a little too complicated to be resolved just by embracing change.

After taking an hour to read the book, I found it to be ridiculous and that it didn't apply to me at all -- "I had always been an advocate for change, what the hell was my boss trying to tell me?"After going through some difficult times at work with restructure and having to change peoples' roles and responsibilities, I decided to re-read the story about 2 men and 2 mice and what their outlook on change was.
I recognized that for the longest time, I was pretty closed minded and was definately going to die with the cheese if I didn't start embracing change and the outcomes it brings.
Not that I am cynical after my life as a corporate prisoner, but my observation is that there really are a lot of people in business so clueless that this book IS a revelation to them.
The interesting thing is that in the corporate life, everybody sees themselves as Dilbert, but nobody sees themselves as the pointy-haired boss, Ted the Marketing guy, the clueless VP, or as one of the Elbonian workers.
Sadly, even the most motivated of corporate drones read books like this only because their boss read it because someone else read it or heard about it at one of those motivational seminars put on by the author.
Most people never think about cheese, but I think about it all the time.Well, like I said, some of it was hard to get, but I talked about it afterwards with my friend Brian and he explained it to me.
Just one single mention, and do you know, Brian couldn't even remember that bit.
So, I hope you won't find this presumptuous or anything, but I wrote a longer version, playing up the cheese and making it more, you know, business-friendly.
I've attached a PDF and I'd love to know what you think!Best wishes,SpencerDear Spencer,I wouldn't have used as many words, but I very much appreciated the Parable of the Cheese.
عندما يتغير ما حولنا.. قد نستغربه ومن ثم نغض الطرف عنه.. قد نحاربه.. قد نعيش معه!تصرفاتنا فرع عن تصوراتناالتغيير يأتي من الداخلعلينا ملاحظة التغييرات الطفيفة والتنبه لها لأنها قد تؤدي لتغييرات جذريةالحياة وتيرة من التغييرات علينا التكيف معها والاستمتاع بها ومنحها قدرها من النشاط والانتاجيةالإيمان سرّ التغيير.. وهو سنة الله في خلقهفكرة تغيير الذات للوصول إلى هدف ما ليست فكرة جديدة على المعتقد الإسلاميالجديد في الكتاب هو مدى تكيفنا مع التغيير الخارجي المألوف ومدى تقبلنا لأن نتغير بدورنا!قصة بسيطة معبرةشكرا لمن أعارتني كتابها :)
Sniff and Scurry, we are told, have the right attitude because "they keep life simple...they don't overanalyze or overcomplicate things," and rather than question why the cheese was taken from them they accept change and just get out there and bust their balls humping it through that maze like good little unquestioning furry mini-zombies looking for more.
Nay, it is, posits this book, a completely unimportant and irrelevant question to ask, because, fellow bitches, the system is how it is, it's gonna stay that way, you can't do a fuckin' thing to change that and it's just too goddamned bad if you don't like it, because your cheese is going to be stolen and sent to South China and that's that.
Can't believe it took me only about an hour to finish the book :) Wow, this book is truly what I need right now! Thank you to the author for such an inspiring and motivational story, maybe it's finally time I realise that it's necessary for me to find my own cheese! by getting into that MAZE out there! :DThis one will never gets old, I assure you, and I highly recommend it to literally anyone!
این کتاب رو چندین بار خوندم. در واقع هر وقت احساس میکنم ی آدم بی فایده بی انگیزه ام میخونمش. حس خوبی بهم میده، ی جورایی تلنگره واسم.
I mean, there are points, where you can actually visualize a person showing the power point slides with one of the sayings in the book written on it, trying to pump up the crowd by saying it with force, and the crowd clapping...The book took me about 45 minutes to read, but it felt much longer (much like motivational speeches!).
Reading this reminded me of why I hate pop psych/pop management books. The writing is terrible, the message is oversimplified and the font is gigantic (an effort to pad the book out to 90 pages, I think). And the intro and conclusion are just a marketing ploy to encourage managers to buy lots of copies to give to their employees. This book could be read in 20 minutes, but I'll save you some time and tell you that change will happen in your life, and you have to deal with it. The end.
My 9 month old son has books with smaller type and which make more sense. The author is worse than Hitler.
Is there a more asinine book on the planet? I'd be hard pressed to find it. That is was a bestseller speaks volumes to the apalling lack of real education in America today. I am fairly certain that they force you to read this book in hell... oh, wait I'm confusing eternal damnation with my office. Sorry.
If you receive this uninspiring, revolting piece of trash from your employer, start looking for another job -- the end is near!Change is inevitable, but it doesn't mean workers should sit back and accept everything corporate America dishes out.
I blamed this book during the time I was jobless because it was this book that compelled me or I guess goaded me to finally make the decision to quit my job what with its constant glaring advice to go for change. But I also have this book to thank for because if it were not for this book, I would have stuck with my old job and I would not have reached the place I am at now. So, thank you book for coming along my way. By the way, I love cheese.:)
The writer did nothing more than put some facts that we all now in a childish story. The book was so cheesy and I didn't like it (pun intended). And what's with the savior persona Dr.Spencer? Chillax okay? "I have changed the lives of millions of people". How about you change your profession and focus on something else other than writing? You like "change", don't you?
After his adventure in the maze, Haw wrote a bestselling book about his cheese sayings and sold it in exchange for royalties in cheese. Now he gets all types of cheese simply sitting on his bottom in one corner of the maze while the others run around looking for cheese after reading his book.
أول مرة قرأت فيها هذه القصة الممتعة كانت قبل حوالي خمس سنوات!استمتعت بها حينها كما استمتعت بها الآن. هي بلا شك قصة معبرة وذات معنى رائع ورسالة مهمة.الحياة تتغير باستمرار. يجب أن نتغير معها :)هناك أمر رائع آخر،أن القصة قصيرة جداً :)بمعنى أنها ستُعجب الذين يحبونها والذين يكرهونها على حد سواء!!أنصح بها.
In a single sentence, this book tries to explain the significance of adapting and reacting positively to changes which is in fact quite a decent subject for an inspirational book, but Who Moved My Cheese does absolutely no justice with it.
Adapting and accepting a situation is one thing, trying to happy about every other situation, fair or not is entirely another.Sorry this review was more of a rant, and I know I've used too much of the word change, but I was totally disappointed with this so called bestseller and I needed to vent.
أسم الكتاب: من الذي حرك قطعة الجبن الخاصة بي ؟المؤلف: Spencer Johnsonعدد الصفحات: 98التقييم: أربع نجماتشهرة هذا الكتاب جعلتني أسمع عنه ..
وكان لا بد لي أن أقرأه لا ان أقرأ وأسمع وأشاهد عنه، وفي أول الصفحات تبين لي إنه لا بد من أن أذهب أعمق من أن أقرأه إلى ان اقرأ النص الأصلي من الكتاب بلغته الأصل فالترجمة كانت ليست بالمستوى الذي يعطي للعبارات معناها القوي وللأفكار عمقها المطلوب ..
الخامسة ذهبت لأني كنت أريد أطمح في تحليل نفسي أعمق للشخصيات الأربع التي في قصة الكتاباقتباسات مختارة:- “أسرع طريقة للتغيير هي أن يضحك الإنسان من حماقته, وساعتها سينسى مافعل وسوف يواصل المسير”
ChangeOur natural human reaction to comfort, or perceived comfort, is to protect it and hang onto it.
Cheese is a metaphor for "What we want in life", whether that be in personal or professional circumstances.
The one constant we have in life is CHANGE.
When cheese goes off it smells so keep your sense of smell on alert.
This is a compelling fable on the importance of keeping 'change' as a way of life and assent to its core principles.Fables are a powerful means of getting across a message, and this book is one of the most popular books in this genre and understandably so.
8 marks the 20th anniversary of Spencer Johnson’s “Who Moved My Cheese?,” one of the most unlikely bestsellers in American publishing.
Johnson, a physician who turned to writing early in his career, required his American publisher to keep his masterpiece always in hardback — never paperback — so that readers would take it seriously.
And they do.In the world of business books, the “Cheese” stands alone.Johnson’s big-print fable captured the imagination of a whole generation of managers, but the question of what moved “Who Moved My Cheese?” remains something of a mystery.
So when early sales of “Who Moved My Cheese?” languished, no one was particularly shocked.
