https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/17347680-forest-of-a-thousand-daemons
But Tutuola had an advantage -- he wrote in English and quickly noticed and brought to international attention.But he has a clear forerunner -- D.O. Fagunwa, who was channeling Yoruba myth into gorgeous novels as early as 1938, with this, his debut and the first novel ever written in the Yoruba language.
Because it was composed in Yoruba and went translated until 1968, after his death, his renown seems to have lagged behind Tutuola's, but he his style is much more refined.
Had Tutuola written in Yoruba and been translated by Soyinka, would the style also have appeared more refined?
Fairy tales: stories with moral and pedagogical intent especially towards the end of the book. The Adventures of Akara-Ogun in the Forest of a Thousand Demons talk about meetings with elves, half-animal half-human beings, spirits, warriors, kings and sages. The writing style is remarkable with an interesting use of terms and a rhythm well suited to the subject matter. Read in the Italian translation.
Published in 1938-----------------------------------16 years ago, I remember my dad Olubunmi Famosaya would pick this book while on his way to work, flip through the pages with exceptional pleasure and burst into laughter each time he approached the end.
16 years later, that was two weeks ago, lol, i ordered for this book because honestly it had had a special place in my heart and i never forgot those words from the text that my dad always tease us with.
Every page is extremely difficult to analyse, technically but One thing that struck me is the ease in which soyinka had used to translate this thoughts because Fagunwa's truths is hidden in the proverbial nuance of the text.
In many cultures, stories and folktales are told not only to entertain, but also to pass on important lessons about life and living.
This is what D.O. Fagunwa did; the stories do not merely tell of Akara-Ogun the brave hunter and his many adventures in the Forest of Demons, they also record important aspects of the Yoruba culture and tradition, such as religious beliefs, language (proverbs), food, dressing, music, artifacts, food, vocation, values, and social hierarchy.
Of course, it is a classic work of literature and has been translated into other languages, but I'm glad I read the Yoruba version; it preserved the originality for me.
More a collection of mythologies than a novel, Fagunwa's story is enticing in its primitiveness-- reminiscent of The Epic of Gilgamesh-- and Wole Soyinka's translation is masterful at preserving the oral cadences of such a tradition. Especially interesting is the metafictional aspect of this story, which places the events of the text as a retelling of the textual Hunter's epic experiences, but it is ultimately ruined by the decision to moralize in such a transparent manner, forgetting the tact of the past's poets.
Akara-Ogun's travels through the Forest of a Thousand Daemons represent adventures at their most fantastic. Warning explorations undertaken to be recounted. As the audience slowly grows, so does the moral tenor. Folk tales, fables, and other nation-building aesthetics are wonderful crime scenes.
This translation of D.O Fagunwa's Igbo Eledumare by Soyinka is superb. The diction gives a picturesque translation of the original language.Soyinka is not just a writer, he is a linguist.
This book is amazing, one of the best adventure novels in the Yoruba language.
Imaginative, surrealistic, bizarre, fun: very much like the work of another Nigerian author Amos Tutuola
i remember reading this twice or thrice, real entertaining with lessons to draw. will always be a classic to me
After Tutuola's prominence, Fagunwa's gradual emergence into the light of literary history in English is both positive and essential to understandings of Yoruba literature and the West African traditions that continue to shape contemporary writing. Good times reading, too; these are well-told stories.
That took long enough
need to find this book
tutuola is better but this one has some funny stuff too more bunyany
Ogboju Ode Ninu Igbo Irumonle. Superb realism merging realms.
A really fun read. I tore through it in a few days, excited to see what how the adventure resolved itself, and to get to the next adventure Akara-ogun would embark on. Each adventure was gripping, and the characters who appear in each, both good and evil, are captivating.I appreciated the translator's note at the beginning, detailing the work in translating from Yoruba to English, how to keep the approximate meaning in a different language system, and how to keep the meaning of names without making them seem "exotic" to an English-speaking reader.
Fascinating, if--inevitably--alienating in places to my dumb ol' Western sensibilities.
Overall highly enjoyable book! The writer does an excellent job being descriptive and painting a picture during each story. There were a few instances where the author was too wordy for my liking, however it didn't last very long. The various stories involved people interacting with animals and supernatural creatures, teaching each other life lessons. I could tell illustrations were custom made for each story, I really enjoyed these as well!
An entertaining read, but very primitive. I don't just mean that in a racist sense, calling an African work "uncivilized." It's also primal. Reads very much like a directionless dream or myth, straight out of the collective unconscious. I am embarrassed to say how impressed I am at the similarities between Yoruba and Western lit.
