https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/7987660-youth
This cute story from 1952 introduces us to Red and Slim, two youngsters with a secret.
I liked this story, but I do wish I had not seen the illustrations, as they completely gave away the ending twist before I even had time to think about there being one.
The entire punch of the ending revolves around the reader not realizing up to that point what the native inhabitants of this planet actually look like.
Really, really big.I did like the story, thought it was clever and all, but I have a vague disappointed feeling about it, as though it was too predictable, perhaps.
I thought this was a brilliant short story and was surprised to see so many mixed reviews.
I read the Open Road Media ebook version of the story.
After reading other reviews, I think that there may be two reasons I enjoyed it so much while other people did not.
The first is the difference in editions, since this has been published numerous times over the years; the second is that I don't consume a lot of science fiction.
Ah, youth!It's less than 40 pages, avoid any spoilers & give it a quick read the next time you're looking for an escape!
4.4 stars. Amazing! The story had a brilliant plot, which misled its reader from the beginning till the end. The twist at the end of the story completely transformed the reader's perception of what was believed to be the angle in which the whole story was written.
Kids Red and Slim capture a couple of unusual animals so they can use them to join the circus. This was an interesting story with a cool twist at the end.
Youth is one of the stories I wanted to read for a very long time.With perfect success rate I deflected all of the spoilers thrown at me over the years and was rewarded for it nicely at the end of the book.
'Conversation points' would be a better name for them.In the end, not a masterpiece of epic proportions we're used to seeing from Asimov, but certainly a fun and enjoyable read.
Thank you Kitty, I really had a good time.4* and a recommendation for Asimov fans and appreciators of short Sci-Fi stories.So the universe is not quite as you thought it was?
This was a short story by Isaac Asimov involving some aliens seeking a trade deal with a new planet, but things quickly get out of hand after they crash and are found by the children of the locals they were supposed to meet.Perspective is everything...
Loved the ending.
There’s no one like Asimov. I thought I had read pretty much everything by him, so it was with much anticipation when this came up as a stand alone short story on my Kindle feed. Even though this was published in 1952, it still packs a powerful punch to the senses. As brilliant as he was, he did not learn how to live forever so that he could keep writing quality sci-fi. Fortunately he was prolific in his lifetime and I will treasure his stories and reread them from time to time.
Youth is about two astronauts who come to an alien planet to establish trade with the native extraterrestrials.
My favorite quote from the story is when one of the astronauts says “We would not harm the young of an intelligent species.” He says this after one of the adult aliens asked the astronauts why they let themselves get caught when they had a weapon to protect themselves.
It’s my favorite quote, because it shows how rational the astronaut was when he was kept captive for several days.
I would recommend this book to all of my friends, because it is an easy read and humorous story.
A great story: classic Asimov. However, only 25 pages long. (I'm embarrassed to claim credit for reading a book.) You can see where it's going, even if the characters can't. Good writing.That is a problem with some ebooks: I don't mind getting short stories from Project Gutenberg, but two "books" I paid for were truncated.
I just feel like reading it again and again, i loved the ending so much! Btw if you want to read it please avoid the illustrated one.
Some science fiction doesn’t age well. The plot is laid out before you, pompous and knowing. But science was supposed to be new to the audience, and it was, briefly.
A cute short sci-fi story with a funny twist at the end.
Youth, by Issac AsimovWhat a pleasant surprise to be wandering about the LibroVox Short science fiction site (http://wiki.librivox.org/index.php/Li...) and come across an e-book of some long lost Issac Asimov story that somehow didn't renew its copyright (http://www.gutenberg.org/etext/31547)I gave it two stars (it was ok) rather than three stars (I liked it) because in his effort to hide story details in order to spring his surprise twist at the end simply left me, the reader, mildly confused during the whole story.
I've read this book recently and I enjoyed every second reading it, even thought I have to admit the time flew so quickly I wanted to last longer. It's a perfect book: short, precise,exceptionally good written and above all the surreal imagination with which the author narrates is astonishing!!!
Classic AsimovShort but classic is this tale. A captivating story of contact between two alien races. The characters are what really make this story. I thought I had it figured out, but there was a surprise at the end. If you like Science Fiction then there is none better than Asimov.
Listened to it randomly. I liked the angle and the ending. The writing style was good. A nice novelette.
A couple of kids, Slim and Red, find some strange animals.
Once we, the reader, understand the nature of the animals, the suspense is centered on whether the parents will snap to what is happening.
Next: will the animals come to harm through misunderstandings?
Almost immediately we know the answer.
Almost immediately we know the answer.
Almost immediately etc.
And the surprise ending?
I'm going to give Asimov the benefit of the doubt and assume that in 1952, when this story was written, people hadn't encountered much in the way of surprise endings in literature, and it probably was a shocker.
Very surprising ending.Absolutely brilliant.
I was a bit disappointed at how dated this little novella was, and the "twist" ending felt a little condescending. I hope, and assume, Asimov's other larger works have a more timeless quality.
The industrialist and the scientist were quite surprised and awestruck to discover that the aliens were armed with potent weapons, but chose to allow themselves to be captured and imprisoned, rather than hurt the kids who captured them; and develop a new found admiration for these enlightened beings and the trade agreement/negotiations conclude to the satisfaction of all the parties involved,...except for the young kids who missed out on the chance to join the traveling circus with their newly found 'pets'.With Isaac Asimov, you can always expect a twist towards the end of the storyline; but even with that in the back of my mind, the twist came as a pleasant surprise to me.
Diminutive invaders from space with advanced technology crashland and are taken for pets by two youngsters.
Furthermore they have a sinister agenda, while Asimov has a little surprise in store.I think I may have written in a previous review somewhere that I wouldn't be wasting any more time on Asimov again, the most overrated in the history of science fiction.Everything I have read by him before has features both prose or dialogue at best functional, at worst atrocious.
This short story fell into the functional category, but at least it had a pleasing twist in the tail.
One thing I like about Asimov’s narrative style is his use of POV (point of view).
Just when you think you get the story and how it will end, he’d surprise you by turning POVs around and you end up re-thinking his stories.
Youth is one example of this.
This narrative device may be irritating to some, but to me it is quite effective.
Youth begs us to consider all possible angels and that once in a while to step over our prejudices and walk around in different, even alien, shoes.
Somewhat predictable, probably because the idea has been copied so many times since this was originally published. It was cool to go back to one of the stories that inspired all the copies though.I received a free copy from audiobookboom. Well narrated. If you have five bucks and an hour and eight minutes to spare, it's worth a listen.
It's a good short story, the twist in the end was expected.You knew from the beginning that there would be a twist in the ending and you would guess it correctly what the twist is going to be.nevertheless it is a good story to read the anticipation is great as well as the narration.
Delightful. What a surprise ending! This novella is science fiction at its best in just 75 fascinating pages. I finished with a smile on my face and in my heart.
Nice little short story about a couple dozen pages long.
I enjoyed this YA short story but do not feel this early effort at short fiction is up to his later standards.
Sci-Fi SS YA - First published in Space Science Fiction (May 1952) - A story about two young boys on a farm who find and capture strange animals.
Despite their efforts, the animals refuse to eat anything they bring them and the boys fear that they will soon perish.
They plan to meet the aliens as soon as they land and try to feel out their intentions.
However, the aliens seem to be running late.
I've always enjoyed a bit of Asimov here and there, and I don't think that will ever end.
His penchant for twists at the end of his short stories and his quietly, yet deftly crafted science fiction worlds always leave me a happy camper, regardless of whether in a short story or a longer work.'Youth' in particular seems to draw close to stories from the Twilight Zone and (in jest) Futurama- the idea of the alien race popping up on a planet where they are seen as pets or playthings.
A common sci-fi concept utilised well, this story is worth a pick up, as is most of Asimov's work.
Well written, imaginative and surprisingBy Charles van Buren on February 6, 2018Format: Kindle Edition|Verified PurchaseThis review is from the Kindle edition of the Open Roads Media, Sci-fi and Fantasy, May 2, 2017, edition of this 39 page story.
The description of this story and edition as listed on Amazon does bear a superficial resemblance to the story but is basically inaccurate in the details.
The story is much better and more imaginative than this description.
I do not like spoilers so I will just say that there is more to the story that what first meets the eye.
One of Asimov's very good early stories.
