https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/42335.The_Middle_Moffat
Certainly not the Oldest Inhabitant of Cranbury who walks by her one day as she's trying to decide on how she should have her mother introduce her to new people.
"Jane, the middle Moffat," or "Jane, the mysterious middle Moffat?" It's a tough decision and she makes an embarrassing blunder; to the Oldest Inhabitant of all people too!
An older sisters gets love letters.For a full cleanliness report, which includes Conversation Topics, Attitudes/Disobedience and Parent Takeaway, visit my website.
I have hundreds of other detailed reports too, and I also have Clean Guides (downloadable PDFs) which enable you to clean up your book before reading it!
Visit my website: The Book Radar.
Jane Moffat, "the mysterious middle Moffat," is a wonderful and plausible character in a lovely family, and the book relates all sorts of fun stories about her: her family-room organ recital and its sudden interruption and cancellation on account of moths, her bestfriendship with Nancy Stokes and its survival in spite of Jane's brave decision to side with Beatrice against Nancy (!) in an argument, her observation of a major solar eclipse, and her friendship with "the oldest inhabitant" of Cranbury, who turns 100 at the book's end.As with the other two of Estes's books I've read, this one was fun to read aloud with my two older girls.
My daughter and I are really loving The Moffats series, which we recently discovered.
(Side note: I’m not sure when the book is set, but it looks like a total solar eclipse happened in West Haven, renamed Cranbury in the book, in January 1925.) It’s fun learning some of the old-fashioned lingo and reading about the types of outfits girls would wear to play basketball.
An interesting thing to see in a book written long before anyone was talking about autism.
Anyway, the whole book is a charming read.
I would argue her stance in this matter exemplifies a middle-child mindset, so I'll let the the four-child status slide this time.What follows in this second novel from The Moffats series is a collection of short stories profiling one year in the life of the feisty, fun-loving Jane after she and her family moves across town to a house on Ashbellows Place.
Throughout her travels, Jane dedicates herself to upholding the honour of the Moffats, and helps her mother and siblings as best as she can.
Should be called Plucky In Spite of Herself, because what I most enjoy about Jane is her lack of self-awareness. She has no idea how much gumption she has and spends most of her time worrying about doing the right thing, not the spunky thing. Many "me too!" moments as I read: the man in the moon confusion; wondering how to read aloud "ha ha"; and the complete assurance that concert-worthy music will pour from one's fingers, without actually practicing/learning the instrument.Our VSC discussed this with Maud Hart Lovelace's Betsy-Tacy. Nice pairing and fun discussion.
This was a charming read from my older Newbery books, along the line of Ramona Quimby, et.al., told from the viewpoint of a child so that we see life in mid-20th-century small-town America as she experiences it.
Both the 8yo and the 4yo said several times a day, "Read more Moffats, Mommy!" I found myself wondering what my 21st-century children see in these World War I-era books.I think what makes the Moffat books timeless is the way Estes portrays the children.
It's lovely to read a character who is imperfect but trying so hard to do the right thing while receiving conflicting messages (like whether or not to take the last pork chop in a home with a maid).Estes also incorporates some cultural critiques (and gentle ribbing) that help adult readers look at themselves less seriously.
I especially loved the chapter where the women of the town hear a talk about Henry David Thoreau and then go through and declutter their homes.
My son and I thoroughly enjoyed this as a read aloud. Funny, engaging, sweet! Each chapter held some humor or poignancy we could indulge in together. We loved the organ recital, anything to do with the wonderful oldest inhabitant, the three bears play. The middle Moffat herself was delightful -- mannerly, sweet, a good friend. She cares so much about the feelings of those around her, though not perfectly. We loved the eclipse, taking up sports, and the letter from Santa. Such an enjoyable read. Highly recommended to all.
I am really enjoying these stories of the Moffats.
I love the oldest inhabitant Mr. Buckle and how he plays Hawkshaw with Jane and how she looks after him.
I love that she thinks she should hold an organ recital in her home after just a week or so of practice...and she thinks her hands will suddenly know how to play...and that people actually come to her organ recital.
Jane has a series of adventures, but seems like a fairly typical/believable little girl.
The kind of girl that might live just down your street or be your best friend.
My all-time favorite children's author for ages 7-10 - but read it to or with your child until they get comfortable with occasional old-fashioned vocabulary. After Jimmy got to know (and love) the characters, he read all the other Moffat (and many other books by Eleanor Estes) by himself. To me the characters are timeless - children who know how to play, imagine, create, but also are good kids who love their families, help their neighbors, etc. The Middle Moffat is my favorite - perhaps because I was a middle child. :)
This was such an adorable book. Jane (aka middle Moffat) is so well developed s a character that she feels like a real person you could meet on the street. She is one of the sweetest people you will ever read about. The book it's self is so adorable. All the adventures that Jane experiences are really fun and playful and so realistic. highly recommend this book to children and adults of all ages. Thanks for taking the time to read this review!
This story has charm and a realism to it. The middle bear chapter was the most riveting and funny to me. I just didn't get attached to the characters and setting, and I feel like the story could be more focused on Jane and her struggles. My expectation was that it would center on Jane trying to distinguish herself as the middle sibling, and I suppose it does (the story with the oldest inhabitant was definitely cute), but beyond the beginning I don't see Jane's struggle to be more noticed.
650L
We read it to the girls about a year ago. We all really enjoyed it. I love how Estes can think like a kid. We found ourselves laughing aloud occasionaly as we read it.
Simple, innocent and oh so charming--like being back inside the mind of a child. Would be an excellent read aloud. Loved Jane and the "oldest inhabitant".
Like Beverly Cleary, Judy Blume, and Sydney Taylor, Estes is one of those rare alchemists of children's literature who can take everyday experiences and turn them into gold. It's even more impressive that her work still holds up though it's from days gone by when houses were heated with coal, girls played basketball in blue serge bloomers, and children wandered around from dawn to dusk by themselves.
I really liked the vocabulary in this book. And the sweet story of a 10yo girl in a small town in the 1910s. We were particularly interested in the chapter in which she views a total solar eclipse, having recently viewed a partial one ourselves.
Such an endearing book. I love Eleanor Estes's style. Very believable voice for a child's thoughts and never emotionally manipulative or obtrusive writing. It's obviously not deep or complex literature. Just sweet, funny and heart-warming.
One of my favorite read alouds, love by the whole family!
Meh.
Sweet and innocent; took me back to my childhood.
Read the full review here: http://newberyandbeyond.com/newbery-r...
S1V1L1
So good!
She is the middle child, hence the title in the book.I enjoyed reading her dilemmas in:1) how to have good manners 2) how to help her neighbor3) how to keep her brother from being disappointed Christmas morning4) how the show must go on5) how to have integrity even though your best friend now calls you a pain...and others.
If the gas meter ran out, and the Moffats did not have a quarter in the house, and the oil for the lamps was gone, all they would have to do would be to let a little daylight out of the box.However, that was not what daylight saving meant.
you would like this book if you like a funny confident girl.if you love to be funny and have confidence in yourself then you would love to read about Jane and her family.in this book Jane helps the girls basketall team win the championship.also she stands up to the machanical wizard Wallie Bangs.Jane is a lovable little girl who would love to meet you if she were real.
The Middle Moffat is the story of Jane who is one of the middle children in her family.
She decides to be just plain Jane, but even that is difficult because of all the things she is involved with in her town of Cranberry.
This book can be relatable to many children who feel the "middle child syndrome." Jane doesn't realize how important and different she is from her brothers and sister.
The character of Jane is also very believable, which helps many children to relate to the story even better.
The Middle Moffat is the sequel to The Moffats and is a Newberry Honor book.
Jane likes him because he calls her the "mysterious Moffat."Although the overall tone of The Middle Moffat is upbeat the book does cover a number of tough subjects: poverty, death in the family and war.
Although the book was published during WWII, Jane Moffat most likely living through WWI.The Middle Moffat was illustrated by Louis Slobodkin and his drawings highlight a lot of the humor of the book much as William Steig's drawings do for Mr Blandings Builds His Dream House.
My goal for this week was to read The Middle Moffat and i did reach my goal it took me about tow in a half months to read this book.This book was retty long but i did meat my goal and i hope i can reach my next goal as this week.
In the book The Middle Moffat there was 234 pages thats why it took me a long time reading this book and my goal for myself is to read 1-2 chapters every day thats how i finished my goal.
Also read books in my level and just try my vest evey day!!
The author, Eleanor Estes passed away in 1988, at the age of 82, so unfortunately, she did not live as long as her "oldest inhabitant." The only episode I had a problem with was chapter 7, because I could not help but read it from an adult viewpoint, since I am an adult.
But of course, Estes wrote the stories as humorous episodes to delight young readers, not for adults.
In chapter 8, I was glad that Jane did not allow Nancy to distract them from seeing the eclipse.
Overall, I am glad that this book was awarded a Newbery Honor.
