https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/40605329-the-mysterious-benedict-society
I feel like I’m coming late to the party, since a lot of readers have already discovered this series, but I enjoyed it very much -- great cast of characters, lots of cool puzzles and mysteries.
The book made me feel nostalgic, because it reminded me of some of the better children’s books I grew up with, like Charlie and the Chocolate Factory and The Phantom Tollbooth.
Stewart’s storytelling has an old-fashioned elegance to it, and yes, I mean that in the best possible way!
The second book in the series is now out, and I will definitely be picking it up.
Like, could give most YA fantasy published in 2018 a run for its money.The friendships and family in this are so wonderful, and the characters themselves are lil sweethearts you just want to hug, and the whole thing is such a tension-filled action-packed mind-blowing event that you’ll never want it to end.Now I want to reread the sequels.Bottom line: THIS BOOK IS THE BEST BOOK AND I RECOMMEND IT UNIVERSALLY.
How do librarians decide what children's book they want to read next?
And when it came to "The Mysterious Benedict Society", I picked up this 486-page tome, turned it about, and then needed a quickie confirmation from somebody as to whether or not I should shell out a significant portion of time to read this puppy.
As far as I could ascertain I was the only children's librarian in the WORLD who hadn't read "The Mysterious Benedict Society", and that was going to have to change.
Once in a while you just want to read a book that's fun.
Ignoring the size for a moment (yes, yes, it matters and we will return to it)...this is charming, smart, well-written story that had me thinking Dickens for Kids based on its engaging yet restrained prose style.
Four children, each with a unique ability or attribute, are recruited by the narcoleptic (that’s right, narcoleptic) Mr. Benedict to infiltrate an elite academy called LIVE (the Learning Institute for the Very Enlightened).
If you chop a chunk of this portion off, I think you have a much better story without losing any of the good stuff.
First, things start to get a little too quirky (The villain's dastardly plot for world domination is  what  now?
I don't want to spoil anything for those who intend to read this book, so let's just say that the realizations come a little too easily, the escapes are a touch too clean, and the happy endings aren't tacked on so much as beaten in with a sledgehammer.
Yet Stewart must also have realized that if he intends this book to become a series he can't tie everything up  too  neatly, so naturally things are open-ended enough to allow for a sequel.
I don’t think I will ever be able to properly rate or review this series because of all the sweet nostalgia surrounding it, but there’s something so beautiful and relieving about reading a childhood favorite and loving it just as much as you did back then// buddy read with the one who can’t blush
What a treat this book was to read! I thoroughly enjoyed it -- the kids were great, the villain and his heinous plot were quite terrifying, and the plot clipped right along. My one small reservation is that somehow I find I am in no rush to read the sequel -- yet this might have simply to do with the fact that the story did clearly end (unlike, say, THE HUNGER GAMES). But basically, I'd recommend MYSTERIOUS BENEDICT SOCIETY to anyone. I plan to give my copy to a bright 11-year old girl I know.
4.5 stars!JUST WOW!
This was a crazy fun wild ride from beginning to end!
I have very few favorites in that genre because there is just so little good in it.
The ending was beyond fabulous.
(view spoiler)[They all got their family!!!!
<3 <3 <3 (hide spoiler)] It made me cry.
And if a J-fic novel can make me cry .
well, then it's pretty good!
I did dock a half star off my rating because it was SUPER long, and I found myself losing interest in some places.
Also, it's pretty .
But overall, still 4.5 stars!Highly recommended!
What a delightful story!
It was very difficult to choose a shelf for this book - it's not truly fantasy, but its not just adventure or mystery either.
Well, anyway, it was a wonderful book about four children who agree to help save the world.
Well-written and with loveable characters and a kindness throughout the book I was enthralled from the first page.
The friendships were wonderful and it was so much fun solving the puzzles along with the characters.
However, I am only about 10 pages into the book...;>
This is by far the best YA novel that I have read since the Harry Potter books. Characters are great, thoughtful and like nothing I have read before. Even though this book is almost 500 pages long, I have been reading it aloud to my class and they are loving it! Every day I come into class they are asking if we get to read it for the day. I can't wait to get the second one.Enjoy!
Not only were they really clever and fun to read about, but that was some pretty ace character development.
;) It was also really cool how each of the children, Reynie, Kate, Sticky, and even troublesome Constance, were shown as important even in their differences, and I think that’s a good lesson for us all.
Wise and zany, brave and a little broken himself… I especially loved how he guided and taught Reynie and how the children could always trust him.
Mr. Benedict expected him to be a leader to his friends, to be smart enough to devise a plan, to be brave.
What a wonderful book! I loved the puzzles and the mysteries. I loved the friendship. I loved the suspense. And I adored the three of the four main characters. I expected more from Costance until she stunned me. Most of the time, I found myself worried that something bad would happen to these wonderful characters: Reynie, Sticky, Kate and Constance. And I felt so sad for the guys like Milligain. I couldn't stop reading it. I kept reading as fast as ever to see what would happen next. Five stars. Enjoy!
It's almost a month since I've started reading this book.
Usually, I could finish a thick book like this within a week or just several days.
But I got bored in the first part because of the slow pacing of the story.
I only got hooked on the story from the half part till the end.
There are at least 4 other books in this series but I'm not sure I will spare time to read them.
This first book is like a preview for me if the book a series is good or not and I'm a little disappointed with what I've read here.
DNF at 37%. This book wasn't terrible but it wasn't good either for someone older then 12. The book seemed too long for a kids book. I never got back to this book and I didn't really care to over the last few months. Maybe I'll pick it up again one day.
The dangerous mystery they must solve can only be done by children because adults are far too complicit in the evil.Take away the fourth child character, and you're pretty much left with an ungothic Lemony Snicket.
They don't read Lemony Snicket for the gothic bits, they read them for the puzzle bits, and in this respect alone, the Mysterious Benedict Society is superior.
As one reviewer pointed out, this can get tiring for the adult readers, but I still think children would find it all good fun.
It's up to these four disimilar and intrepid kids to save the world and of course they are completely up to the task.I thnk this book will have broad appeal to under-12s.
The book is too long, with little point, the plot is at times circuitous and the characters show little to no character growth, they are the same in the end as when you met them.
In a book this size I expect to see some character growth and I think that more than anything is what irks me.
Trenton Lee Stewart seems unafraid to pick up a few children’s lit archetypes: four remarkable and lovable children (albeit one slightly less lovable than the others), missing parental figures, the kind male guardian, the boarding house/ evil school scenario, and themes of mind control and world domination.
But within the archetypes, Stewart creates his own brand of magic.
The intelligent writing, Carson Ellis’s charming illustrations, the in-text puzzles, and memorable characters like Kate Wetherall make this book a must-read for those interested in children’s lit.
As soon as I finished the book, I ran out to buy the sequel.
And you can go wherever you want around the Institute, so long as you keep to the paths and the yellow-tiled corridors.” “Actually,” Reynie observed, “those all sound like rules.”Navigating through the Institute’s tricky lessons, learning the Institute’s ‘lack of rules’, and rising through the ranks to learn the secrets of the Institute is going to prove harder than the children might have expected.
Finally he gave up trying to decide and simply wrote, “I hope so.”STICKY:There had been times in Sticky’s life when an important question would flummox him no matter how well he knew the answer; and times he had run away from his own problems; and times when he’d felt himself paralyzed when action was most needed.
SO FAR, RECOMMENDED TO ANYONE MISSING STORIES ABOUT CHILDREN AT INTERESTING SCHOOLS NEEDING TO FIGURE OUT A MYSTERY AND "SAVE THE WORLD" (NOT THAT IT'S "HAPPY POTTER" BY ANY STRETCH OF THE IMAGINATION, BUT IF YOU MISS HARRY THIS CHRISTMAS, TRY THIS BOOK!) It is sooo captivating, I adore the characters (even if one is highly annoying!) and the mystery/suspense is excellent--tantalizing instead of irritating in its unfolding and (as of yet) relative vagueness.
Specifically, I felt that the mystery which made this book an ultimate page-turner is very similar to the Harry Potter series and the characters are akin to The Series of Unfortunate Events, especially Mr Benedict, who reminds me of Lemony Snicket's Uncle Monty.Mr. Benedict is a very important character in this novel, he is the one who makes a series of tests to find gifted children to assist him in stopping Mr. Curtain, who is heedfully plotting to rule the world.
And best friends, whether or not they are related to you, can be your family.”
Four brilliant orphans are recruited by a Mr. Benedict, who needs their help to discover who is behind a plot to rule the world. The best thing about this book are the logic puzzles the kids have to solve to get invited into the Benedict Society - readers can figure out solutions at the same time the characters do. I really found myself rooting for those plucky orphans, each with their own unique personalities and skills. Go orphans! Save the world!
The premius is one that I liked but I wonder if kids can follow it (any more).
The book's protagonists are gifted kids who aren't really interested in TV and think for themselves...wow, if only.
All kidding aside a nice book.
Books where the "outsider" kids are the heroes (like this one)are much more common now.
I suppose some of that might be because many of the people who grew up to write these books were the "outsider" kids.
Try this, see how you like it, what you think of it, and then consider letting your kids read it.
Imagine trying to save the world as a child and all you have is Morse code. In The Mysterious Benedict Society, Reynie Muldoon is the brightest kid at his orphanage. His teacher finds out about a special test for special children, and signs Reynie up. Instead of doing the test in sequential order, Reynie goes ahead and finds the answers to earlier questions in the later questions. Because of his power to think outside the box, Reynie passes the test. He soon meets the other children who each pas
Because of his power to think outside the box, Reynie passes the test.
As the society tries to stop Mr. Curtain, he creates obstacles for Reynie and his friends who keep having to think outside the box and work as a team to avoid being mind-controlled.
Reynie, Kate, and Constance have to work together to save Sticky.
In the end, The Mysterious Benedict Society was an amazing book and would be especially enjoyable to readers who like puns and figures of speech, like the name Constance Contraire.
Once I started reading The Mysterious Benedict Society, I didn’t stop reading until I finished the whole series in a month and a half!
There's something a bit Roald Dahl-ish about this book in that it has a fairly preposterous story (children infiltrating an institute run by an evil genious baddie, to thwart his plan to take over the world), and a rather light tone.
Yet it's also not quite Dahl-ish in a couple ways; despite the evil genious plot the book is permeated with a sense of kindness and is full of deeply nice people (which is good).
If my son wants to read the next one (and he does -- before he even knew there was a next one, he wanted to write it himself), he's on his own.
I love the premise of this novel, as well as the cast of orphans turned spies, but the pacing was just a tad too slow for me.
This story revolves around incredibly clever children who join a secret society which the children later call: "the mysterious Benedict society".
This story makes you think along with the characters and makes you want to find out what happens next.
Constance is a moody and cranky character.She is always throwing tantrums and she knows quite a lot for her age.
Mr Benedict then sends them off to a mission to save the world(in a way) from an evil genius aka Mr Curtain.
Well, along the way,they face a lot of challenges and they discover that not only do they require wit,intelligence and secrets tactics(morse code) to succeed in their mission.
I loved this book! It is such an interesting idea which makes for a very interesting plot! The characters were lovable (I just loved Constance, despite her stubbornness) and realistic. I really would say that this book series is as good as Harry Potter! Read it!
RTC once I've gathered my thoughts.
This book was undoubtedly imaginative and much better than I initially expected it to be. I loved all the characters, too. :)
DNF at 24%
