https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1455149.Blinky_Bill
I really dont think this is a childrens book, there are some rather violent themes in it, including murder. I diddnt like Blinky as a character, i thought he was so rude to everyone he met for no reason. I also think there was animals in the bush that shouldnt be there? like for one, there are no hedgehogs in Australia. Besides little details like that it was a cute story.
I loved reading this with my kids. I wish I could fake an Australian accent. Blinky is not a good role model and many of the other characters are selfish, but we thought the antics were cute. We listed the animals as they came up and looked them up later.
Very sad to say that this childhood classic is not to be a classic for my children. We stopped at p 138. I don't usually let the kids stop reading a book part way through, however, they honestly didn't like reading it and found it boring. I was disappointed as the movie was coming out last holidays and I had wanted to read it before we went to the movie, but that proved to be no further motivation. The movie, was nice but lacklustre, and did not provide additional incentive to finish.
I loved to watch the animation series of Blinky Bill when I was a kid. The book isn't quite as funny as the TV show but it is really worth reading anyway. It has a slightly different focus - at least at the beginning. A lot is told of the danger the koalos and the other animals are living in. Kids can really learn a lot about Australian nature and animals from this book.
Remember reading these as a child! Loved them very much
Blinky Bill, the mischievous anthropomorphic koala, is well known around the world through the TV cartoon and movies, but the book version is a little darker.
You could argue that the harsher aspects of the story bring home the difficulties of life to children but it seemed a little strong to me.For some reason, the pictures are often a long way from the text they illustrate, and this forces the reader to flip back and forth unnecessarily.
In the story itself, there are some strange mistakes of biology, such as hedgehogs and porcupines living in the Australian bush, despite neither of them being native to the country.
I would recommend this book to an older kid but as bedtime reading for younger kids. Blinky's behaviour in the story was quite inappropriate in my view, which are difficult for kids younger than eight to understand and may negatively influence their behaviour as a result. For example, Blinky Bill stole cabbages from Farmer Scratchet but defended himself by saying that it was "borrowing".Moreover, the use of language in this book was quite colloquial and is not suited for young kids who are just beginning to learn composition at school.
I listened to the audiobook because I wanted to check out literature to read with my son when he's older. Blinky Bill entertains and delights; he's the same kind of mischievous character as Peter Rabbit or Curious George. Australian literature often falls through the cracks so I'm pleased to have stumbled upon Dorothy Wall's creation. My son is only 5 months old but I'll read this with him when he's 3 or 4.
This review was written by A, 6 years old. Blinky bill is a koala who is a bit cheeky and he runs away from his home and comes back but he always runs away again. Once, they got caught and taken to the zoo. The book is set in the Australian bush.🐨🇦🇺🍃🌾🌸🌼🌷🐍🐝🐺🐄🐐🐏🐖🐎
Traveling with Blinky on his adventures through the bush as he meets new friends and has many funny adventures and misadventures is an Australian write of passage.As an Australian I grew up reading Blinky Bill, so I was really looking forward to re reading this book and seeing Blinky through adult eyes.
This classic Australian children's book is a favourite for young readers and it will continue to be for a very long time.If you haven't yet met Blinky Bill now is as good a time as any to go and get yourself a copy of The complete adventures of Blinky Bill.I look forward to the day when I will be reading my children the stories of Blinky Bill and his bush friends.Written by Geramie Kate Barkerhttps://gemsbooknook.wordpress.com
This is an omnibus containing Blinky Bill: The Quaint Little Australian (1933), Blinky Bill Grows Up (1934) and Blinky Bill and Nutsy (1937).I fondly recall the Blinky Bill character from my childhood – but never remember reading the original stories.
Having now read the originals I suspect that my fond memories come from the various adaptions that have been made over the years.I must say I was shocked by the mature themes contained in the first couple of chapters in Blinky Bill.
The new tree contains Mrs Grunty who’s history included having her whole family shot by humans, then herself being kidnapped and transported a long distance to become someone’s pet.
I enjoyed these children's tales of a little koala bear.
She nicely balances and tempers the impulsive, mischievous Blinky.WARNING: Some children may be distressed by the deaths of a few characters, both good guys and bad guys.
(view spoiler)[Near the beginning of the first book, Blinky Bill's father is shot by a hunter.
In the second book, Mrs. Snake and Granny Goanna are headed to eat some of Blinky's friends, so he arranges for some large bull ants to attack.
Snake and Goanna are stung and killed.
I think that is all the deaths.
(hide spoiler)]
Either I never noticed/remembered what a little shit Blinky was as a kid, or the TV show portrays him as far more cheeky than downright awful.
However, I did give the book 4 stars because I loved the anthropomorphic society the Bush had, and the solid "Aussie"ness of the book.I do feel bad for Mrs Grunty though.
You'd be 'growly' too if you watched your family be massacred by humans who later kidnapped and incorrectly tried to keep you, only to want to live out the rest of your days in peace with your good kid but be nuisanced constantly by a wild child with no discipline.
I was excited to finally read this book to my 10 year old son....
but we stopped just a few chapters into the second book.
We were both quite shocked at his nasty behaviour and how he disregarded everyone around him and their feelings.We soldiered on, after all this is a famous Australian story....., but it was the graphic images of death that kept jumping up in most unexpected places that finished it for us both.So even though there were snippets of lovely, embedded were horrible bits, which sneakily appeared usually right in the middle of an especially nice bit.I cannot recommend to this book to anyone.
Blinky Bill was a childhood OBSESSION.
I mean, you could get those plastic figures that some people put over their towball (plus the Land before time ones!) and the show was on Saturday (?) mornings and just...so much goodness for kids.
Like, Blinky is naughty, but it all works out OK for him in the end.
I remember sitting in Library class looking at the pictures in this one, the beautiful illustrations, and wishing I owned my own copy.
As an adult, I do!
A beautiful 90s printing bought from a swap meet for $10.
Bargain.Here comes Blinky Bill!
Five stars!
This is an absolutely delightful children's book. Dorothy Wall first introduced Blinky Bill in the 1930s, and the books have never been out of print since. A firm family favourite for three generations in my family. I've posted a review on Amazon.com for anyone interested:http://tinyurl.com/2vneh2
A tale of bad discipline, stealing, rudeness and murder most foul is Blinky Bill. This trilogy is repetitive and lacks a good message for children. Also spreads the tale of drop bears, or croppers, as the term is coined. I can see its place in Australian history but a very basic writing style lessens enjoyment.
Awesome. First book I ever read. Aged 5. Too busy reading other things to re-read it (besides I don't re-read anything - ONE EXCEPTION Ki Longfellow's The Secret Magdalene). So that 5 star is a retro-rating. I'm stickin with it though.
Cute and quaint stories. Quite different to kids books now. The author does not shy away from death or violence at all. Honestly, while I found it a tad unexpected, it was quite refreshing. Some minor mistakes in animal names, such as an echidna being called a porcupine.
Was a childhood favourite and still is!
Life and adventures of a young koala bear. Prefer these to The Magic Pudding by Lindsay.
it was a very interesting story it had a lot of charter for a litter koala and involved a lot of adventure it is more a book for children aged from 8 to 10 (primary school)
Just don't see the attraction...
I don't own this, but I wish I did. The one with the red cover that I used to get out of the school library week after week...
Ah, what a classic! Takes me back to childhood.
Really grew up on a solid diet of this one :) And never failed to cry when Blinky Bill's father was shot :( Ten thousand times worse than Bambi!
This is an Australian classic, but I was never that excited by it as a kid.
Blinky Bill was one of my favourite shows as a kid and it still makes me smile when i see it on TV. The book is just as well crafted and written. It is simply 'extraordinary' :)
The book isn't as funny as the tv show but still a childhood favourite of mine. Many fond memories of this mischievous Koala.
One of my all time favorites as a kid. Every child should read this/have this read to them!
