https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/333538.The_Castle
Μόνο εκεί μπορούμε να ανακαλύψουμε το ανώτερο νόημα,πέρα απο το πλαίσιο της φυσικής μας ζωής πάνω στη γη.Σε όλο το στερέωμα του Καφκικού σύμπαντος με επίκεντρο τον θρυλικό Πύργο προσπαθούμε να προσεγγίσουμε την είσοδο, την επαφή,το μυστήριο,το παράλογο,το ιδεώδες,το σύμβολο της ύπαρξης και του ονειρικού εφιάλτη.
Έπειτα να διασχίσουμε με απόλυτη δειλία,δυσκολία,απειλή και πόνο τα απελπιστικά πολλά και μπερδεμένα μονοπάτια του οικισμού και του μυαλού μας και αφού καταφέρουμε να επιζήσουμε ή να μην τρελαθούμε και χαθεί το κλειδί για την πύλη του Πύργου που είναι η ψυχή μας, ίσως, μα και πάλι μάταια καταφέρουμε να αντιμετωπίσουμε την ανημποριά και να στηρίξουμε την ύπαρξη μας στο υψηλότερο επίπεδο πνευματικής σοφίας,δύναμης,τόλμης,αποφασιστικότητας και τελειοποίησης.
Él nunca se plantea: “¿por qué no me voy?”, “¿por qué no abandono todo esto y pruebo una nueva vida?”, sino todo lo contrario, quiere quedarse, establecerse porque no puede volver atrás rechazando la proposición de Frieda mientras vive en una escuela, donde K., debe dejar su intento de trabajar como agrimensor para ser un simple bedel de escuela.Mientras que en las novelas de Fiódor Dostoievski “la procesión existencialista” va por dentro del personaje para confrontarlo con la realidad y los demás personajes, en las de Kafka las circunstancias, el entorno y todas las probabilidades conspiran en contra y a la inversa, perforando la conciencia del personaje para llegar, incluso, a paralizarlo."El castillo" es otra de las novelas inacabadas de Kafka junto a "América" y "El proceso".
"You misinterpret everything, even the silence."If this was Homeros, the castle would be unattainable Ithaka.
If it was Borges, it would be a labyrinthine library full of books one can't read.
If it was Freud, it would be a nightmare in which the dreamer tries to reach a nonexistent goal.But it is Kafka, and therefore it is a bit of all those stories, told in a meticulously described fog.
As a symbol of life, it is depressing, and it leaves the reader to ponder what is worse: spending one's time fruitlessly trying to get access to the castle, or actually achieving the goal?Life is what is happening in the meantime.
بعد میره اون جا، با اون آدم حرف می زنه، یه سری اطلاعات دیگه می گیره و همین طور...برعکس، قصر پیرنگ داره.
با این که هر دو رمان مضمون مشابهی دارن، اما ک در این رمان بیشتر عصیان می کنه، بیشتر بی اعتنایی می کنه به توضیحات و توجیهات بچگانۀ آدم ها راجع به قصر/دادگاه، بیشتر واقع بینی ش رو حفظ می کنه و سعی می کنه درست واکنش نشون بده، واکنش هایی که گاهی دل من خواننده رو خنک می کرد که قصر/دادگاه اگر نه کاملاً حداقل در یک مورد خیلی جزئی سنگ روی یخ شده.بر خلاف ک در محاکمه که مثل کسی که در خوابی گیر افتاده باشه، تنها ناظر بود، ناظر اتفاقات و تصمیماتی که براش گرفته می شد، بدون این که خودش کاری بتونه بکنه، و در انتها هم به گفتۀ خودش «مثل سگ» کشته شد.
691. Das Schloss = The Castle, Franz KafkaThe Castle (German: Das Schloss, also spelled Das Schloß) is a 1926 novel by Franz Kafka. In it a protagonist known only as K. arrives in a village and struggles to gain access to the mysterious authorities who govern it from a castle. Kafka died before finishing the work, but suggested it would end with K. dying in the village, the castle notifying him on his death bed that his "legal claim to live in the village was not valid, yet, taking certain auxil
«کا» مدعی می‌شود، که شغلش مسّاحی است، و با درخواست خودِ قصر، به آنجا آمده‌ است.
پس از زنگ زدن، نخست ادعای «کا» تکذیب می‌شود، و سپس تأیید می‌گردد، و در واقع قصر «کا» را به مسّاحی می‌پذیرد.
I'm re-reading The Castle 10 years later with older, more patient eyes and it's proving to be a wonderful time, especially with the new translation."The Eighth Chapter" of The Castle is, perhaps, some of the most beautifully composed writing in all of modern literature.
While still not the same as the actual German, it's very close and very true to his "real" style.Kafka is, without argument, regarded as one of the greats of 20th century literature, and The Castle (the third installment of Kafka's alluded "brothers" trilogy, with Amerika & The Trial being the other two) is the purest example of what makes him great.
"We need to withdraw some money from the bank," she said: "There are a lot of bills to be paid, and some of them are long overdue.""Can't we do it online?" NK.
set off to the bank, annoyed.At the bank, he tried to withdraw money, first from the ATM, and when that proved unsuccessful, from the bank personally; but the teller told him: "I am afraid there is a technical issue, sir, you Aadhar number which is linked your account has some problem, so I am unable to complete the transaction.""Oh," said NK.
"What is the problem?" "I can't see that from here, sir," said the teller.
Η αλήθεια είναι ότι δεν είναι τόσο κακό, αλλά η στιγμή που επέλεξα να το διαβάσω ήταν.
Δε μπορεί όμως να φτάσει σε αυτόν λόγω γραφειοκρατίας και αποφασίζει να μείνει στο χωριό κάτω από τον Πύργο.
Οι κάτοικοι του όμως είναι μεγάλα γαϊδούρια που νομίζουν πως η λέξη "φιλοξενία" είναι χωριό στην Ανδαλουσία.
Αυτό μέχρι τις πρώτες εκατό σελίδες, όολο το υπόλοιπο βιβλίο περιστρέφεται γύρω από το -θα μπω, δε θα μπω- του ήρωα μας στον Πύργο.
Το τέλος (το ποιο;) του βιβλίου ανύπαρκτο, η ιστορία μας τελειώνει πιο απότομα και από χαράδρα στο Grand Canyon, είχε κατάθλιψη και φυματίωση ο Kafka όταν το έγραφε και δεν το ολοκλήρωσε ποτέ.
No. Kafka quit too and just as mid-sentence as I--only later in the text.
Thank goodness I stopped before Kafka's work killed me too.I was not enriched by the petty squabbles of German?
I didn't like the protagonist; I couldn't even admire K.
for not liking K.self.I think at the time and place of its writing, it was somehow valuable to use The Castle, pointing out in surrealism the satirible qualities of the bureaucracy and peasantry.The value The Castle has to offer here and now is not worth the attention required to read it.
Kafka is upside down in his book.
is trying to solve this mystery, especially as it confirms him quickly no survey work is needed in the village.
His behavior shocked Besides the villagers, accustomed to more respect for this prestigious organization and unable to understand as much obstinacy to disturb respectable figures for an insignificant request.But K.
However, it only manages to get angry with all the people who give him advice, and contacts he felt close to the castle admit in the end do not understand the exact functioning of the administration and even being unable to recognize for sure an important official.
exhaustion at the end of the story.
“Now what could have attracted me to this desolate land other than the desire to stay?” In The Castle, Kafka’s protagonist ludicrously struggles to gain entrance to and make sense of the Castle, an entity which is effectively unattainable and incomprehensible.Reading the book felt like coming home one day to discover that all of your belongings have been shifted 5 centimeters to the left, with the exception of one lone, grimy spoon. Nearly everything was askew to some degree. This book was so p
In The Castle, Kafka’s protagonist ludicrously struggles to gain entrance to and make sense of the Castle, an entity which is effectively unattainable and incomprehensible.Reading the book felt like coming home one day to discover that all of your belongings have been shifted 5 centimeters to the left, with the exception of one lone, grimy spoon.
This book was so painfully well done that reading it often made me queasy.
It seemed to fit the definition of grotesque rather well: comically or repulsively ugly or distorted.
See also many of the synonyms for grotesque: malformed, deformed, misshapen, misproportioned, twisted, and gnarled.

στο χωριό του Πύργου ενώ ταυτόχρονα αρχίζει και η περιπλάνηση του αναγνώστη στα δαιδαλώδη και σκοτεινά μονοπάτια αυτού του βιβλίου…Τι είναι ακριβώς ο Πύργος; Μια αλληγορία για την γραφειοκρατία, ένας συμβολισμός για την ανθρώπινη καταπίεση, οι προσωπικοί δαίμονες του συγγραφέα; Ίσως όλα αυτά μαζί, ίσως και τίποτα από αυτά… Προσωπικά μέσα στον Πύργο δεν βρήκα συμβολισμούς και αλληγορίες.
Οι επόμενες σελίδες βασίζονται στα χειρόγραφα που βρήκε ο Μαξ Μπροντ στο σπίτι του Κάφκα μετά τον θάνατο του τελευταίου… Το ότι το έργο παρέμεινε ημιτελές, για μένα του προσδίδει μια επιπλέον γοητεία, αν και δεν πιστεύω πως κάτι συμβατικό θα συνέβαινε ακόμα κι αν ο συγγραφέας προλάβαινε να γράψει το τέλος…ΕΝ κατακλείδι ο Πύργος είναι ένα πολύ ιδιαίτερο ανάγνωσμα και όπως ήταν αναμενόμενο διχάζει τις απόψεις των αναγνωστών όλα αυτά τα χρόνια….
in the story reminded me of telephoning a large organisation, you don't have the direct number of the person you need to talk to, from the switchboard you are transfered through the system, put on hold, transfer from number to number, ultimately to be connected to nothingness, a dull tone only in the receiver.Traditionally I would fall back on the social and cultural context, you know Kafka had lived through the experience of going to bed one night a citizen of the Austro-Hungarian dual monarchy, waking up feeling a bit strange, and not quite one's self, and then in the evening realising that he was now a Czechoslovak.Reading further the setting of The castle reminded me of Melvyn Peake's Gormendghast, but told from the point of view of Steerpike, Peake's trilogy began to be published in 1946, the first translation into English of The castle was published in 1941.
Estou na página 220 (de 380) e se não desisto já ainda me dá um piripaque...Esta obra de Kafka é, dizem, importante e de leitura imprescindível.
Do que li, conta a história de um homem que chega a uma terra para trabalhar e a burocracia das hierarquias e da papelada impedem-no de chegar ao castelo, de falar com o responsável e executar o trabalho para o qual foi contratado.
Como não gostar de um livro de Kafka, me "afeta" psicologicamente, talvez fosse boa ideia tentar redimir-me com a releitura d'O Processo, que li há muitos anos e gostei.
جهان رمان قصر، خواننده را بهمانند شخصیت اصلیاش «ک» سرگردان میکند. قصر برای من نمادی از یک سیستم ناکارآمد و آشفته است و «ک» هرچه برای نظم دادن و مرزبندی کردن آن تلاش کند، بیثمر است. دنیای این رمان، دور باطلی است که به هیچ نقطه ثابت و امنی نمیرسد. و چه مهارتی دارد کافکا برای ساختن و نمایش این جهان انباشته از سرگردانی. هربار کتاب معرکهای میخوانم به ذهن نویسندهاش فکر میکنم و دلم میخواهد میتوانستم ذهن کافکا را ببینم که هرچند ممکن است آنچنان تاریکی غلیظی فراگرفته باشدش اما برای من بسیار تماشایی است.
جهان رمان قصر، خواننده را به‌مانند شخصیت اصلی‌اش «ک» سرگردان می‌کند. قصر برای من نمادی از یک سیستم ناکارآمد و آشفته است و «ک» هرچه برای نظم دادن و مرزبندی‌ کردن آن تلاش کند، بی‌ثمر است. دنیای این رمان، دور باطلی است که به هیچ نقطه ثابت و امنی نمی‌رسد. و چه مهارتی دارد کافکا برای ساختن و نمایش این جهان انباشته از سرگردانی. هربار کتاب معرکه‌ای می‌خوانم به ذهن نویسنده‌اش فکر می‌کنم و دلم می‌خواهد می‌توانستم ذهن کافکا را ببینم که هرچند ممکن است آن‌چنان تاریکی غلیظی فراگرفته باشدش اما برای من بسیار تماشایی است.
The next paragraph exposes it.The villagers and castle-officers share two common traits.
First off, they both are proud of their station in life and job.
Every time a villager reinterprets everything that happens to K as being profoundly and inexorable important to his or her own life, Kafka is pointing out that the commoners never act to fix their lives.
All the villagers and castle-folk are passive.
That is completely alien to the villagers.
Does he not know he is supposed to accept live as it is?
is reasoning like one of the villagers already.
struggles to receive an appointment at the department for deportment in the castle, and sets about seducing a barmaid on the floor of the bar (no one told me Kafka was so erotic!), and making wrong utterances to every person encountered.
to remain trapped in the village, never to receive an appointment with Klamm until the moment of death, and fortunately, by the time the final sentence comes around, one is begging for release following Pepi’s rambling free indirect monologue (one of many overlong interactions in the novel).
Ακολουθεί μία σειρά περίεργων γεγονότων και αλλόκοτων εμποδίων, απολύτως υπολογισμένων να αναχαιτίσουν την οποιαδήποτε επαφή του Κ με τον Πύργο.Τι είναι όμως ο Πύργος; Με μία πρώτη ανάγνωση είναι η εξουσία, αποστασιοποιημένη, απόλυτη και απρόσωπη.
, ως ξένος, στην αρχή την προσεγγίζει ατρόμητα, γιατί δεν είναι γνώστης των κανόνων, άρα και της λογικής, που επικρατούν σε εκείνη την συγκεκριμένη κοινότητα.
Γιατί ο άνθρωπος δεν δέχεται εύκολα την αλλαγή, την όποια αλλαγή, που μπορεί να συνεπάγεται μία στοιχειώδη αντίδραση ή ένα υποτυπώδες ξεβόλεμα.
Γιατί ο κάθε ένας από εμάς έχει τον δικό του Πύργο που παλεύει να φτάσει, και σίγουρα πολλοί από εμάς, έχουν κι έναν Πύργο που δεν έφτασαν ποτέ.
Για να καταλάβεις όλα τα κρυφά νοήματα και τους συμβολισμούς του Πύργου, πρέπει να τον διαβάσεις τουλάχιστον 2-3 φορές. Αν όμως θες να το διαβάσεις, γιατί αγαπάς τα καλα βιβλία και σε μαγεύει ο Κάφκα,αρκεί μία!Τον Κάφκα τον γνώρισα με τη Δίκη και τον αγάπησα. Συνέχισα με τον Πύργο. Εξακολουθώ να τον αγαπώ. Δε ξέρω γιατί. Ειναι ο λιτός του τροπος; Ειναι οι πλοκες του που δεν καταλαβαίνεις για ποιο λόγο συμβαίνουν όλα αυτά; Είναι το μάταιο που προκύπτει; δε ξέρω, τον αγαπώ, αφήστε με!
Left unfinished at his death, Kafka's castle is as inaccessible as the top of Sisyphus' hill or any other utopia that one could imagine. The intricacies of the impenetrable bureaucracy is stupendous as is the terror of the unknown. Every bit as exciting as an Edgar Allen Poe tale or funny as Musil, it is one of Kafka's must important and enigmatic works.
Δεν είναι "Δίκη", δεν είναι "αποικία των τιμωρημένων", αλλά σε κάθε περίπτωση είναι Φραντς. Η ιστορία ξεκινά με τον Κ. να καταφτάνει σε ένα χωριό για να εργαστεί στον Πύργο, το διοικητικό κέντρο του εν λόγω χωριού, ως χωρομέτρης. Από την πρώτη κιόλας στιγμή όμως αντιμετωπίζει πολλαπλά προβλήματα. Στον πύργο δεν τον δέχονται, οι κάτοικοι των διώχνουν από τα σπίτια τους, οι πληροφορίες που λαμβάνει είναι ανεπίσημες, αποσπασματικές και ελλειπείς και η κατάσταση του περιπλέκεται από μια σειρά γραφει
​Δεν είναι "Δίκη", δεν είναι "αποικία των τιμωρημένων", αλλά σε κάθε περίπτωση είναι Φραντς.
Στον πύργο δεν τον δέχονται, οι κάτοικοι των διώχνουν από τα σπίτια τους, οι πληροφορίες που λαμβάνει είναι ανεπίσημες, αποσπασματικές και ελλειπείς και η κατάσταση του περιπλέκεται από μια σειρά γραφειοκρατικών μηχανισμών που κινούνται αργά αλλά ισοπεδωτικά χωρίς να του επιτρέπουν να ελπίζει σε κάποια βελτίωση της θέσης του ή έστω την παροχή κάποιων εξηγήσεων σχετικά με το τι αναμένεται από αυτόν.
In a dreamlike, labyrinthine tale riddled with material and emotional inconsistencies,Kafka envisions a bureaucratic administration bloated and twisted beyond all imaginings, in which reverence for authority is elevated to an extreme and bizarre form of religious observance (religion itself is tellingly absent).
K's affaires and intrigues are governed by almost arbitrary and mysterious turns of events; he struggles first in one direction then another, always towards the ever elusive Castle.There is a desperate quality to this narrative; it seems to rush on in terror of what may happen if it pauses for breath.
ولی ناآگاهی در ضمن این مزیت را دارد که شخص ناآگاه بیشتر خطر می کند، و به همین دلیل من خیال دارم تا جایی که توانم اجازه می دهد ناآگاهی، و البته پیامدهای ناجور آن را، باز چند وقتی تحمل کنماین تنها سرنوشت شخصیت اول این کتاب نیست که در ناآگاهی بماند بلکه خواننده کتاب هم در بیشتر خطوط آثار کافکا وا می ماند.
و این تلاشی است خستگی ناپذیراز نظر شخص ناآگاه همه چیز امکان پذیر می نماید...و اینک پیش بسوی دنیای جدید: آمریکا
Only a total stranger could ask such a question. Are there control agencies? There are only control agencies. Of course they aren’t meant to find errors, in the vulgar sense of that term, since no errors occur, and even if an error does occur, as in your case, who can finally say that it is an error.We were all once younger. I don't know if we have all been haunted.
We both have similar haunts: desperation for love, a draw toward sexuality conflicted with feeling “dirty,” loneliness, a struggle with a moral or religious Law consuming and tormenting the psyche.
When I read Kafka, I feel oneness with a brother of my own personal struggles.
Sometimes people try to cross those barriers to obtain love, and society breaks them and sends them crashing down to where they don’t want to be, where they “belong.” I know someone who went to business school.
He feels close to Kafka.
I hope intimacy with great minds of literature, and my own writing, can save me.
“You misinterpret everything, even the silence. You simply cannot help it.”Semi-coherent thoughts to come later—that is, if I am able to piece something together. Because Kafka is one of those authors I love without being able to explain why, you know? He's crazy like that.
K's initial, simple request to see the lord of the castle from the position of a Surveyor quickly devolves into the darkest of comedies or, rather, a nihilistic tragedy, as he is regularly put through an increasingly onerous set of hoops.
The entire staff of the castle seems set to keep him off the lord, but it grows very clear that everyone there is just as caught in the trap as K.Utter hopelessness.
Through the bureaucracy, gullibility, vindictiveness, fear, paranoia, resignation and worst of all, hope, every character is forced to go through their own hoops endlessly and with little good reason.Truly, this is a nightmare.BUT.
Pero todo esto es el truco, literatura, al fin y al cabo, y eso es lo que se debe desentrañar, verbalizar tal como lo entiende el subconsciente por nosotros, pues él sabe cómo sentimos mejor que nuestro propio entendimiento.
Su poder reside en esa continua aspiración: El castillo no se basa en un argumento planificado sino en sensaciones llevadas al extremo en un alter ego; en ese concreto esfuerzo solitario en el que los personajes bregan por abrirse camino en medio de la hostilidad del medio y la infinitud de sus anhelos, tal y como hacía Kafka en su propia vida.
ترجمه ی کتاب همینطور که از جناب علم انتظار داشتم، افتضاح بود به هر حال داستان فوق العاده است.....................................براستی که قصر چیست ؟ این سوالی است که خواه در ذهن خواننده و نیز در ذهن شخصیت ها خیالی داستان، دائما مطرح میشود.
در جاهایی از داستان است که خواننده حس میکند شاید قصر هیچ قدرتی ندارد اما سنت ها و عقاید عامه است که جلوی آزادی خویش را گرفته اند و تقصیرش را بر روی گردن قصری انداخته اند که خود آنرا بزرگ کرده و با دست های خویش ساخته اند.
He writes about frustration, he's frustrated about writing, The Castle breaks off mid-sentence, he asked Max Brod to burn his work but he knew Brod wouldn't do it.
doesn't know the way to it, he doesn't even know what the Castle is, he just knows he wants in.
"If only you didn't always, like a child, insist on having everything served up right away in edible form!" His first translators the Muirs thought it was about God, they made it into a creepy Pilgrim's Progress.
I like The Trial better and his short stories best.

Ratings seem especially beside the point with The Castle.
If you have any affinity for Kafka, it's worth your time.
It contains some of his strangest and most disturbing images (the sound of singing children coming out of phone receivers) and a bone-deep feeling of being lost in a world whose rules we can't *even* fail to grasp.
But it's also unfinished and there are moments late in the novel where you can feel Kafka spinning his wheels, getting lost within the continually forking paths of his character's self-justifications.
It's hard to imagine how the book could've ended and in some ways mid-sentence seems as good a place as any.
At first I thought I have no idea what I'm doing and what I am reading.
I read about this one lad, who somehow experience strange environment (for me).But what made me hooked to the book until the end is that the feelings I had towards K.
throughout the books.
The playing with my thoughts and emotions I say make this book interesting enough.I would love to read more of it, but the questions it left me at the end somehow seems enough, especially on the dress.
Odd read, but interesting.
Jer sve vreme te mentalne igre u koju je uveden, ni u jednom trenutku tu delatnost nije obavljao (iako je, čak, dobio i zahvalnost od Klama za dobro obavljanje tog posla, u kome nije imao nikakvog udela, kao ni njegovi asistenti koji su, zapravo, samo obmana servilnosti prema K-u, a na mnogo višoj su poziciji po poznavanju "pulsa" zamka).
Međutim, čini se da svaki njegov pokušaj socijalizacije samo vodi u dublji poremećaj njegovog duševnog mira, i izgleda da nije ni svestan da se stanovnici Zamka (koji je, takođe, metafora, kao što naglasih: ne radi se o uobičajenoj fortifikaciji, već se pojam "Zamak" odnosi na datu oblast, na selo u kome K.
Most of the plot threads were left open, and it feels like most of the third act had been left undone.I guess I didn't understand the level of completion, The Trial and Amerika giving me a sense that it might be mostly done, with a few holes and missing pieces.
And insult to injury, it feels like the least well edited book of Kafka's writing.
It feels like they were written quickly, with great intensity, and never revised for flow or accessibility.And it's a shame, because there are some great ideas here.
Had Kafka lived to finish and edit this, it would be remembered as his greatest novel and one of the absolute masterworks of the Western canon. Le sigh, his death left a great cultural artiface incomplete and is a tremendous loss to us all.
In both versions I cannot give a five-star rating, as, like all of Kafka's big three novels, they were unfinished when he died - indeed, The Castle ends in mid-sentence - and this flaw, this lack of resolution, cannot be overcome by editing regardless the number of times it is attempted.Harman's translation delivers a grittier, more breathless version of Kafka's detailing of a surreal, bureaucratic nightmare.
It has been stated that Kafka was writing about the spiritual, with the Castle representing salvation or a unreachable God, though Harman shies from this point of view in his introduction.
Διάβασα αμέτρητες κριτικές (τώρα που τελείωσα) και το μόνο σίγουρο είναι πως όσοι κατάφεραν να το ολοκληρώσουν πήραν και από κάτι (ο καθένας διαφορετικά) και λογικό γιατί κάθε βιβλίο είναι διαφορετικό για τον καθένα.
Λίγοι είναι οι άνθρωποι που προσφέρονται να βοηθήσουν, όλοι πάντα κάτι θέλουν.
Συνειδητοποίησα πως αν έχεις έναν στόχο, ακόμα και αν παρεκκλίνεις αμέτρητες φορές, δεν πρέπει να τον παρατήσεις ΠΟΤΕ.
Ο Πύργος είναι κατά τη γνώμη μου ο παράδεισος στον οποίο κανένας δεν έχει πάει και κανένας δεν μπορεί να μας τον περιγράψει αλλά όλοι θέλουν να τον επισκεφτούν.
Ίσως είναι ένα άπιαστο όνειρο.

Αν και ημιτελής, είναι αρκετός για να καταλάβουμε ότι θα ήταν (και ίσως είναι) το magnum opus του Κάφκα.
Στις σελίδες του ξεδιπλώνονται όλες οι εμμονές, οι ανασφάλειες και οι κοινωνικές παρατηρήσεις του Κάφκα πιο ολοκληρωμένα από κάθε άλλο βιβλίο του.
Στην έκδοση που έχω (αυτή της Ελευθεροτυπίας) υπάρχει ένα τέλος μίας σελίδας μετά το πρωτότυπο που είναι σεβαστό, αλλά με άφησε ανικανοποίητο γιατί δεν έκλεισε τις ιστορίες των άλλων χαρακτήρων.
Από τις πρώτες σελίδες κιόλας ο Κάφκα σε βάζει στον κόσμο του και οτιδήποτε μοιάζει με παραλογισμό, φαντάζει πλέον φυσιολογικό.
Εάν είχαμε το πρωτότυπο ολοκληρωμένο, θα μιλάγαμε για ένα από τα καλύτερα και ίσως μεγαλύτερα σε έκταση μυθιστορήματα.
Kindred spirit
Ou seja, Kafka é brilhante no trabalho psicológico, mas é-o de uma forma muito particular, totalmente distinta da abordagem tradicional, já que não se dedica a traçar os perfis dos seus personagens, e talvez por isso não seja uma obra fácil para muitos dos que se aproximam na esperança de encontrar mais uma obra dentro do alinhamento geral.
Ou seja, para dar conta espacialmente do seu objeto, Kafka tem de projetar os conflitos humanos num espaço e conjunto de obstáculos que impedem o acesso ao seu centro.
There’s the fact that a master can often find himself subject to the capricious will of the servant, over whom he only occasionally appears to wield nominal authority.
When a horse is urgently needed and none is obtainable, one may suddenly emerge, harnessed with sleigh, out of a pigsty… but apparent salvation may turn suddenly into punishment and humiliation while time runs away with us, or comes to a standstill.If we want to read a book like the Castle as parable, it’s possible, and probably easy to do so, though like a good parable, it’s not a complete understanding of the work.
Secure behind walls that both protect and isolate...an apt analogy for the political process almost anywhere you look in the world. We are all asked to be 'land surveyors' (political landscape) but our 'surveyorship' is often just a way to include us in a process that has already been mapped out. Kafka was able to see this process and show us the 'true map' that is followed.
