https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2376087.The_Post_Office_Girl
Beck quotes from a letter by Zweig from 1931 in which he confides that he is stuck in the middle of the novel and that he felt as in front of a ditch (ein tiefer Graben).
For the English edition, or The Post Office Girl, my understanding is that the very different title was borrowed from a tag used by Donald Prater European Of Yesterday: A Biography Of Stefan Zweig in his biography from the 1970s (mentioned by Beck as Postfräuleingeschichte).
Before the dawn of the e-book, Zweig's novels were shelved in libraries and bookstores in that alphabetical no-man's land: the tail end of the last shelf, right next to those spare metal bookends that look like jetsam from the Millenium Falcon.
Here's a li'l something from Stefan:"The vast power of money, mighty when you have it and mightier when you don't, with its divine gift of freedom and the demonic fury it unleashes on those forced to do without it..."This story also has one of best endings I've read in a long while.
With some things in life, you can’t go back once you’ve crossed a line.
To go back to a life without traveling was unthinkable.
With the post-office girl, it’s a brief foray into the world of the elite, a glimpse into what life is like on the other side.
When circumstances force you back to your prosaic life, the bitterness that seeps into your blood is poison and you wonder if maybe you were better off staying ignorant.
The post-office girl can’t cope and only when a seemingly likeminded disgruntled soul crosses her path do we think that maybe there might be some kind of redemption.
Christine, The Post-Office Girl, works in solitude each day at a routine job that brings her gloom, even though she knows that for a woman living in a village where there are few jobs available after the war, hers is a coveted position.
He too had dreams, he too was intelligent, an aspiring architect, but those years of war took pieces away from his life and when he returns, an injured veteran, he finds that others have his coveted position and that no one is willing to give him a chance.
Only one person sees me this way and it's rare that anyone else has in the past.
There was a part in this story, just a few pages, that made me weep inconsolably on the inside.
Some books grip me, make me react in a negative way, putting me in a psychological state of melancholia and grief, but it's rare that I feel as if I'm inside the character's head as he/she is speaking to me.
Perhaps, but that's another story for another time."I think it better to conclude in good time and in erect bearing a life in which intellectual labour meant the purest joy and personal freedom the highest good on Earth."  - Stefan Zweig
When will it be me? When will it be my turn? What have I been dreaming about during these long empty mornings if not about being free someday from this meaningless grind, this deadly race against time? Relaxing for once, having some unbroken time to myself, not always in shreds, in shards so tiny you could cut your finger on them. Life can sometimes seem to be arrested in a state of perpetual halt; the waiting for your chance that never ever comes. Not a moment of respite, not a moment without
It is the feeling of not having a personal moment of living dedicated just to oneself, to solely being happy.
Don’t you have to learn how to wear clothes like these?
It is as if she is a tangible person for the first time.
Then lifeless and now intoxicated with life, with a new feeling of joy blazing inside.
The sensuality of this new feeling has been depicted as vividly as taking the first bite of a ripe fruit, as gulping in the freshness of morning air, and running down the path of one’s own self-discovery.
It's quite a few years sinceI read this but I remember going out immediately afterwards and buying two other books by Zweig.I think that might serve in lieu of a five star rating.
It's a tragic version of the Cinderella story, a version with no glass slipper and no Prince Charming; it's a story of a girl taken to the heights only to be plunged back into the depths.The author, Stephan Zweig, though not that well known in the English-speaking world, is probably the best late representative of the culture of old Vienna, that urbane, tolerant, sophisticated and brilliant world, swept away forever by the rise of the Nazis.
It would be wrong to criticize the author, who held this back from publication.
Those things that you read and nod to, but on second glance, well, here:-- Happy people are poor psychologists.-- Malice is always lucky.-- The subject of a rumor is always the last to hear it.-- It's one of the few advantages of age that one is rarely wrong about people.One of these is true.
But he didn't want you to read this one.
Mi sono avvicinata a questo libro dopo avere visto di recente (maggio 2017) in TV, ma sebbene distra
Stefan Zweig explores the story of Christine, a poor 28-year-old Austrian woman who briefly enjoys the lap of luxury with her Aunt on a vacation but then is sent back to her lower-class private hell in, “The Post-Office Girl”.
One of the finest highlights of “The Post Office Girl” is Zweig’s amazing ability to demonstrate the emotions and actions of all the characters on a psychological level despite their ages, race, or gender.
Even with the poor ending; “The Post Office Girl” is an amazing piece of writing which accurately portrays poverty, depression, and struggles in a psychological way.
I wanted to read something by Stefan Zweig because his writing was apparently the inspiration for ‘The Grand Budapest Hotel’, one my favourite films of 2014.
‘The Post Office Girl’ has an incredible intensity of feeling.
Although they are good novels, in fact the former is brilliant, I like ‘The Post Office Girl’ more than either.
Whereas in The Rector's Daughter there is no real attempt at wider social commentary and the individual predominates.In short, Zweig really blew me away.
‘The Post Office Girl’ does end in a distinctly abrupt manner, but in a very narratively satisfying place.
4.5 This book wrecked me. I need to collect my thoughts.
Although the ending is abrupt yet I couldn’t have asked for any better ending than that because personally i was not prepared for a closed ending as I didn’t wanted to know what Ferdinand and Christine ended up doing together.Must say I love this author and I am sure of reading all his works, essays, short stories, novellas and anything that he has ever written.
The Post Office Girl is a story about a poor, young postal worker, Christine, who gets the chance of a lifetime to have a very brief, but wonderfully transforming vacation from her poverty-stricken life.
This story takes place in Austria after WW1 and is an indictment against Austrian society, or society in general, and the way it allowed the soldiers of WW1 and their families to flounder in poverty after the war.
My only quibble with this novel is the introduction, in the second half of the story, of a new character, Ferdinand.
Worse, he takes the focus off Christine.
" ...But it might be better not to know you're so poor, so disgustingly poor and wretched." -- Christine This story, which takes place in Austria following World War One, centers around Christine (a lowly post office worker) and the internal psychological warfare she battles over the widened gaps between the social classes and economic equality.
After fleeing Austria before the war, marrying into wealth and cutting off all ties with family, the Aunt wants to make amends with Christine's mother and in doing so, extends an invitation to vacation at an alpine resort in Switzerland.
Poi, all'improvviso un telegramma...(view spoiler)[Un invito da parte di una zia emigrata da tempo in America a passare qualche giorno di vacanza a Pontresina cambia la vita di Cristine che per la prima volta esce dal paesino.L'impatto con il lusso e la spensieratezza propria di chi non deve pensare a come sopravvivere compiono l'atto di trasformazione.
(hide spoiler)] per me è stato come se capissi per la prima volta cosa vuol dire respirare Zweig non dipinge solo un dramma individuale ma quello di una generazione che denuncia il paradosso sociale delle diseguaglianze.
تاريخ القراءة الأصلي : ٢٠١٠قصة رومنسية خفيفة ولكنها مضخمة بروائح الفلسفة الآلمانية الميتافيزيقية
(view spoiler)[Bettie's Books (hide spoiler)]
Sono tre le fasi in cui il personaggio di Christine si evolve: dalla mite funzionaria delle prime pagine, che troviamo alle prese con un rigidissimo sistema burocratico come quello delle poste austriache, alla giovane ragazza - oramai un po' cresciuta, ma ancora innocente e inesperta - che vede per la prima volta cosa vuol dire divertirsi, arrivando infine alla donna disillusa della terza parte, oramai quasi rassegnata a vivere una vita che non ha scelto lei.
Their coming together proves to be detrimental.(view spoiler)[Their plans for either suicide or stealing from post office, is again not presented as right or wrong, but a reflection of how desperate they were to get out of their meaningless existence.The suggestion of suicide is eerie.
She doesn’t dare to ask any questions.”The novel is full of contrasts employed to great effect:The rich clientele of the Swiss hotel versus the poor Austrian provincials.(view spoiler)[Christine’s aunt Clara living in luxury versus Christine’s mother Mary living with illness.The posh hotel of Christine’s holiday versus the seedy hotel of Christine and Ferdinand’s abortive tryst.The frivolous engineer who courted then dumped Christine versus the saturnine Ferdinand who bonded with her.
Perhaps the overarching theme running throughout the entire novel is, who is really ever happy?
The rich seem happy but are in fact miserable constantly trying to maintain their fragile wealth and status.
But what it lacks in joy, it more than makes up for in trying to understand the human condition and what exactly is it than any of us are living for.
Would it really be a kindness to take a person living their entire life thus far in dull poverty and transport them for 8 days into the very lap of capitalistic luxury, in full knowledge that at the end of the vacation, they would be returned to their previous life?Christine was one such person, living in post-war Austria with her ailing mother, knowing nothing but poverty and a dreary job in her little town's post office.
Bitter because he's been discarded by society and the government like an old odd sock since his return from Siberia.
Podemos hacerle todo el daño que queramos, nosotros, toda una generación derrotada, y cuanto hagamos sólo será una simple indemnización por daños y perjuicios.' ...Con su habitual pericia literaria y con precisión psicoanalítica, Zweig relata minuciosamente la trayectoria vital de Christine Hoflehner (o Christiane von Boolen), ayudante de correos en una pequeña oficina de la localidad austríaca de Klein-Reifling, que tras unas cortas vacaciones en las montañas suizas inicia un proceso definitivo de 'metamorfosis'.
Christine Hoflehner transita desde la privación y la pobreza sufridas durante largo tiempo hacia el descubrimiento de otra forma de vida, del lujo y del dinero, germen de una transformación tenue al principio, después veloz y voraz, irreversible.
The newspapers which feel they have delivered fame to these people always follow the trajectory of an arc.
Tomorrow at the hotel someone else can become the object of admiration and lust.The second part too has great pertinence for the world as it is now.
It seemed surprising to me that Zweig could manage to be so convincing in his depiction of the thoughts of Ferdinand, especially in his feelings of angst and alienation.
Whether the plan worked or not...well, either way I feel that, sadly for Christine and Ferdinand, happiness was never likely to visit them for long.
The characters, Christine and Ferdinand, are at an impasse in their youthful lives.
Ferdinand thinks rationally, planning step-by-step what he intends to do; Christine takes pride in never being a burden but errs in regarding Ferdinand as superior.
Ferdinand sets out a seemingly justified, analyzed plan to give them some freedom.
The best of the book is the description of interwar life in Austria and the creation out of those times of desperate characters for whom having prestige and money is the way to at least short-lived happiness, esteem, and love.
I really liked how I didn't know where this was going for the longest time. Right up until the end, really. Oh, the bitterness! I loved it. So many quotable passages.(view spoiler)[Although how great wouldn't it have been if he'd killed her in the post office upon seeing all that cash, and robbed the place? I really thought that would happen. (hide spoiler)]
Bazen insanın duyduğu sevinç öyle bir noktaya ulaşır ki buna eklenen hiçbir şey hissedilmez ve bu durum acı çekmek, çaresizlik, umudunu yitirmek, bir şeyden tiksinmek ve korku duymak için de geçerlidir.
Spoiler içeriyor olabilir.(view spoiler)[ Birinci Dünya Savaşını izleyen yıllarda, Avusturya'nın bir köyündeki postanede memur olarak iş bulan Christine Hoflehner annesi ile birlikte yaşamakta ve geliriyle ay sonunu zor denkleştirebilmektedir.
Teyzesinin daveti ile yollara düşüyor ve Engadin Platosu'nda o güne kadar görmediği bir lüksle karşılaşıyor.
Teyzesinin desteği ile dış görünüşü değişen kız ilk başta yaşadığı ihtişama yabancılık çekse de çabucak ortama alışıyor, flörtler, geziler...
Bunun için detayları konuşurken Christine'in çalıştığı postanenin kasasındaki paraları alıp kaçma düşünceleri ile kitap son buluyor.

What you don't hear about is the fact that Zweig leads the reader through each predictable situation by the nose, elimininating the engagement that might otherwise be present in a book that holds its audience in higher regard.
No need to attack Zweig here on a personal level (others have done that with feral efficacy)because it's ultimately his book that we are concerned about here.
I have read some Zweig that I've enjoyed but you really need to approach this one with caution.
If you are looking for an easy read with a plot that most well-rested toddlers will be able to predict - here's your book.
