https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/47762.Daughters_of_Eve
As a staunch feminist, I have no problem at all with Daughters of Eve. In fact, I'd bet money that Duncan is a self-proclaimed feminist.I think people are misreading this book as an anti-feminist crusade, when in reality it's a commentary on radicalism gone out of control.
They're also sadly realistic, which only add to the book's strength.Personally, I felt great pleasure when the Daughters of Eve meted out Peter's punishment in the woods, even though their actions were thoroughly criminal.
Given its great prose, complex characters, and compelling plot, I think Daughters of Eve is another one of these books.
The new class each have secrets: freckled Kristy Grange, whose older brothers Peter and Niles have been excused from domestic work which falls on Kristy with both parents eking out a living; Laura Snow, an overweight teen with no friends and poor self-esteem who's in love with Peter Grange; and delicate Jane Rheardon, whose mother exhibits symptoms of battered wife syndrome from Jane's abusive father.Daughters of Eve is led by president Erika Schneider, "the coolest girl in the Senior Honor Society" toiling on a top secret science project involving rats which has virtually no competition on its way to the state level science fair; club treasurer Madison Ellis, cheerleader and homecoming queen, is dating Peter Grange but refuses to go all the way with him and threaten her modeling career with a pregnancy; club secretary Ann Whitten, budding artist whose future is uncertain when her farmer boyfriend Dave proposes marriage.
A straight-up anti-feminist screed, and an embarrassment that Lois Duncan should be ashamed of herself for having written.
The only excuse I have is that I was in my early 20s at the time.)The plot, as I remember it, is that a woman teacher, who’s your run-of-the-mill man-hating, ugly, radical feminist lesbian, takes over a girls' club and indoctrinates them all with her evil philosophy, turning them all into man-hating harpies just like her.
Men are not all bad!
There are good men!” and they shout her down.
Nearly every man in it is awful, but the girls and their teacher are villainised for saying so.
She thinks driving a girl to suicide deserves some kind of action.
And she thinks girls are justified in being angry when their school robs money they raised to fund a soccer program for them.I mean, what the hell is wrong with any of that?
Never expect to have an afternoon off from clearing up after your gross brothers ladies, next thing you know you'll be justifiably mad that your school doesn't give a shit about girls in sports!
I was really into suspense stories at the time, and I remember just devouring every one of her books I could get my hands on.
They still stay with me almost 10 years later.Daughters of Eve is a great read- but very different from Duncan’s other books as there is no real “supernatural” aspect to it.
The story surrounds a a secret society called "The Daughters of Eve," set up by a feminist high school teacher and a handful of her female pupils.
If you don't mind being disgusted, read this book; it's very good.The men in Daughters of Eve are horrific, and some of the women are giving them a run for their money.
Sick stuff.Another girl has a father who beats his wife every Friday, and the mother says it's because she got on his nerves and it's her fault because she should know how hard he works and not give him trouble.
The book was written in 1979, so yes, it's dated!
Why people act surprised by the fact that a book from 1979 is dated is beyond me.
Not only is her writing style amazing, but these topics felt real to me when I read them the first time, and I still enjoy them now.
Irene, a teacher, picks those girls who need friendship most and brings them together to create something good, something feminine and powerful.
They are set in a more drastic light (I believe a bit more of who women were treated in the 60's) but there are still injustices today.All of the underlying stories of the individual girls were also so great to read about.
A great book, and one that I'd read over and over.
And I got the impression that she's trying to turn the girls into man haters too, which is like pretty much the same thing the men does to women.
It took quite some time for me to finish the book because I have no idea if I should like it hate it.
I mean, its good that the book was about how women learn to take a stand against sexism but the characters turned into twisted psychos who will hurt men when they think that they are being wronged.
Well maybe if you count 1 sentence explaining what happened to each character after three years!
I don't think this book is about feminism but about extremism. I think it brings up a lot of great points for its time.
Lois Duncan man - what a woman way ahead of the times. This book hits all points of discussion within feminism: misogyny, sexism, chauvinism, abortion/the right to choose, ALL the points. This definitely will point young adults into the discussion of feminism, women's rights, conservatism, and (I hope) the idea of going a little too far in being a super radical whatever.
The teacher begins to point out the subtle and not so subtle biases and prejudices the girls are facing in their lives.
Then it starts to feel like a cautionary tale of rampant feminism.
In the end, I decided to look at it as a cautionary tale of extremism.
What this teacher does is too extreme.
With such a broad cast of characters, Duncan does pretty well making them all interesting and telling their stories and addressing particular issues such as domestic abuse and low self-esteem sex and it's impact on vulnerable teenagers.
This could have been a really good book, but the characters were all such stereotypes, it was hard to feel anything for any of them.
Was the author trying to be pro-strong independent female?
If so, she was so heavy handed that it made you almost root against the girls and their journey to independence.
It was like she was saying in order to be a strong, independent woman, you have to hate men.
The male characters were all one diminesional and evil.
The female characters were weak, until they decided to go off the deep end.
And then they were just crazy females.
Not a good book.

By about page 75, I was like "Yes, I get it, there is gender inequality. Enough already...what is the plot? Where are we going?" My main problem with this book is that there are just too many characters. I found myself having a hard time keeping some of the girls straight because the author has about ten girls but she takes a long time to come back to each of them. Then there's a bizarre anti-climactic climax with a page and a half denouement at the end. Meh. It's just meh.
I just re-read this. It was one of my favorite teen books...it shows just how easily people can be twisted by left-wing radicalism and how one-sided and scary those view points can be.
Preaching the gospel of women's liberation and feminism the girls are worked up into a man-hating lynch mob ready to exact some revenge.
But the men/boys in this story were more like monsters and jerks.
I don't want to include any spoilers but I was pleasantly surprised how much I enjoyed this book (don't usually read YA) and I couldn't put it down until I found out the outcome from all the hate that was slowly building to a brutal act of revenge.
But two of our main characters couldn't go along with the mob mentality any longer and thought things were getting out of hand then removed themselves from the source and the club.
'How about some coffee?' her husband said now.
I'm sorry.' Edna Grange got to her feet and went into the kitchen and poured his coffee.This book was originally published in 1979.
And now, here I sit reading in the year of our Lord two thousand and seventeen.
Body shaming, gender roles, bodily autonomy are still issues dealt with every day.
While there are absolutely feminist themes and the condemnation of sexism, it didn't feel like the book was trying to be decidedly feminist or antifeminist.
To me, this reads more as an ensemble piece about a cult with a malevolent leader.
Was it a perfect book?
Each of the 10 girls in the group is dealing with some form of sexism, but it is their teacher, a bitter, wronged woman, who leads them down a dark path.There is no subtlety to Daughters of Eve. The reader is knocked over the head with the unfairness of being female (at least being female in the 1970's), and many of the male characters are completely evil - one guy uses one of the Daughters for sex and then stands her up for the Homecoming Dance; another Daughter has an abusive father; one father casually uses the word "fag".
It was hard to care very much about these characters when everything seemed so exaggerated.
Maybe this was more realistic when the book came out in 1979, but I think most girls today would have a hard time relating to this.
First the club members shave the head of a boy who has used one of them for sex and then dumped her.
Then they trash the science lab when a boy's project gets picked for the science fair over a better one by a girl.
They also trash the coach's office when he uses money allocated for a girl's soccer team to buy the boys uniforms.
At the end one of the girls in the club brains her dad with a frying pan after he beats her mom and puts her in the hospital.
The Daughters of Eve are the high school's most exclusive club, led by art teacher Irene Stark, and new members Ruth, Jane, and Laura are thrilled to be asked to join.
Slowly, the club is led by Irene to question the gender assumptions which hem them in on all sides, and they eventually take some shocking actions in order to redress the balance.
As the girls spiral downward from simple redress into outright vengeance, the book becomes a chilling look at the effects of institutionalized gender roles.
Great book. Loved this one, too. Would love to own the versions of Duncan's book I had as a teen. I think they fell apart from reading so often.June 2016: Updating to say I'm sorry to hear of Duncan's death. Daughters of Eve made a huge impression on me. I think it's often misinterpreted as anti-feminist. But I disagree. Observing these girls as they discover self value was enlightening.
my girlfriend and i talked about this a bit and we couldn't decide if this was pro or anti-feminist. at first it seems decidedly feminist. but then the main feminist turns creepsville and then there's some violence because of the feminism. as for the book itself - eh.
One of my favorite Lois Duncan books and the subject matter is, sadly, as relevant now as it was in the 70's.
I’m angry!
And as I said, right and justice did not prevail, which felt both unsatisfying and unrealistic.
This trend of updating decades-old books for the new generation really bugs me.
Do they think we’re too dumb to notice the contrast between tone and tech?
This book is obviously from 1979, and no tech can hide that.
Do they think having the current devices in a book is more important to us than plot, character, and theme?
Must find real book.Update: it seems that they even changed some of the names to make them more hip!
Daughters of Eve is probably my second favorite of all of Lois Duncan's suspense novels right behind Down a Dark Hall. A great tale of sisterhood with a suspenseful twist. It had a great cast of characters who came from different social standings and backgrounds who came together to stand up for each other against the abuse they were suffering. A wonderful read.
I thought that this book would be empowering for women, especially to young girls still in high school.
High school is a challenging time for most students, but through the Daughters of Eve, as a reader you get to experience these girls finding themselves and that is really special.
One of the Daughters gets used for sex that stood up for homecoming, which is a very real situation for high school girls, but it also continues on the men hating path, emphasizing that they are all bad.
NOT a "pro-choice" attitude), and some good conversations about sexism and the reality of gender roles and gender norms.Sadly, the lead "feminist" starts to go off the deep end, and we see feminism as "angry man-hating." The girls commit violent, illegal acts that serve no useful purpose (one doesn't even target the actual primary offender, another takes revenge for an act that was outside the target's control, and the one that actually "punishes" the guilty party doesn't get discussed at all).
But tacks on a "Three Years Later: Where Are They Now" that's supposed to be an "ending."My version talked of cell phones, so I guess I read the "updated" story.
Each of the 10 girls in the group is dealing with some form of sexism, but it is their teacher, a bitter, wronged woman, who leads them down a dark path.There is no subtlety to Daughters of Eve. The reader is knocked over the head with the unfairness of being female (at least being female in the 1970's), and many of the male characters are completely evil - one guy uses one of the Daughters and then stands her up for the Homecoming Dance; another Daughter has an abusive father.
First off: this story was good.
No "Down a Dark Hall", but good.
Here’s the thing:I don't think the updates of Google-jokes and cell phone use improved LD's books at all.
I'm not a young adult, but when I was, the originals were somewhat dated but still excellent.
I knew when they were written, it didn't effect my enjoyment of the stories.
Knowing it's been futzed with, though, does.
No one is like, "Oh, Jane Austen, maybe tone down the hoity-toity talk," or "Woah there, Judy Blume!
No one knows what that is now.
It's Me Margaret' with mention of those contraptions!" you know?
History is good for you.
I wasn't too wowed by this book.
It wasn't bad by all means, it just...wasn't anything to write home about.
It took a long time to get going and, personally, I thought the ending was extremely unsatisfactory - she ended with a list of what happened, I feel like the book - any book - deserves more than that.
Also, although this may just be me, I found it difficult to remember which character was which and what their problems were.
Still, I wouldn't advise not reading this book.
It is a decent, fairly fun read - though strangely off from Duncan's usual style.
