https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/762443.Memories_And_Adventures
I was in the 8th grade at the time and picked an autobiography at semi-random for an oral report. Little did I realize that this would turn out to be so long, yet also so fascinating. I ended up giving a 15min report to my class that got cut off at the 50minute mark as the class ended. Safe to say I've been a huge ACD fan ever since. He led an amazing life of adventure, in a very British way.
In the book, Doyle analyzes his life in detail - lineage (Irish descent), family (life with his first and second wives, death of his brother and only son in World War), literature career (Sherlock Holmes stories and historical novels), sports interests (golf, boxing, cricket, football, billyard) ,travels (North pole, Egypt, America, etc), influences on the masterpieces that he wrote (Voltaire Scott, Edgar Poe,Macolaulay, and others), indirect participation in the Great Boer War (he served as a doctor in the British hospital for injured soldiers in South Africa) and the First World War (it was Doyle who first created a volunteer army during the war),and one of the main aspects of his life - spiritualism, which he believed and tried to prove is a veritable science that is not quiet observed and explored by the scientists yet.
It's depressing to realize that the creator of one's favorite, rational and unsentimental fictional character (Sherlock, Sherlock!) believed in ghost, fairies and the Empire. This in addition (deduced from this autobiography) to apparently having been an utter bore. Sigh.
Too much about how wonderful the Brits are. "The good Tommy soldier". The "dirty" Hun (& Kaffa's & Fuzzy-wazzies). So arrogant and elitist. :-( Maybe a sign of the times? Didn't realise Doyle was so much into the occult & mediums.
yes, Sherlock Holmes stories are fascinating, but the autobiography of the author himself is just as interesting!Could use better pictures tho... (and Sherlock related pics eat up something like 20 pages!)
Sherlock Holmes is a must-have for every library
