https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/310580.The_White_People
This is my diary my diary of my life my life as a young woman left all on her lonesome by her very busy parents, no one to guide me other than my old nurse, my old nurse with all of her stories and her secrets and her strange wonderful phrases, we said them together, we made that lovely clay doll together and we buried it behind that hedge, my sweet old nurse oh what she showed me oh the stories she told me such odd lovely stories about strange places and strange pits and strange lovely white people, oh so white, they live in the forest and the rivers and under the hill, they will show me the signs they will show me the way they will show me the path ...
Based on Eddie's STELLAR   (http://www.goodreads.com/review/show/...) of another Machen novel, i read this short story on my break today. First of all, the introduction is one of the most amazing explorations of the notion of evil that I have yet to read, and was a perfect transition from Wise Blood, a much-later novel exploring similar issues. This story, however, examines sin from a very different angle than O'Connor the Catholic's approach. sin CatholicThe text concerns a young girl and her s
(http://www.goodreads.com/review/show/...) of another Machen novel, i read this short story on my break today.
For example, Machen (or at least the voice in his story) would consider Carlos Castaneda to be a big-ole motherfuckin manna drinkin,' psychedelic rock-lovin', stone-cold and shameless sin factory.
In the stories themselves, however, visions of a hidden yet ever-present consciousness of the world which defies the strictly scientific is primarily done through Witchcraft rather than intoxicants (I suppose Machen hadn't considered the possible implications of LSD, psychedelic mushrooms, DMT, or whatever drug you have a hook-up for to his arguments concerning sin).
And even to a seasoned reader, Machen's delightful narrative in its misdirections still offers a reading experience that yearns for more.In structure, The White People, essentially, is a discussion on the nature of evil; with an atmospheric meta narrative suggestive of illusions, witchcraft and occultism.
The discussion sounds esoteric in content and is presented in third person; and the Green Book that forms the main narrative is presented as the 'Hobson-Jobson' for understanding this colloquy.
I am badly inclined to consider connect the White People with the missing years of Helen in The Great God Pan. I would even interpret the water reflection scene as Pan projecting himself to our dimension.
In Supernatural Horror in Literature, Lovecraft writes that "Machen's narrative, a triumph of skilful selectiveness and restraint, accumulates enormous power as it flows on in a stream of innocent childish prattle." It is a fascinating story.
For example, there's the fictional document - in this case, the Green Book, the girl's diary - that provides an evocative yet unreliable glimpse into the mystical other world, not unlike Lovecraft's use of Wilbur Whateley's diary in "The Dunwich Horror" - and, of course, his famed Necronomicon.
Many people will read into his landscape and attach Freudian meanings, but I dismiss such fantasies, they are less real then the ancient folklores that fired Machens imagination.
This feeling could have been born from my own imagination but perhaps it was also an intuitive knowledge that there is more to the ancient places of this earth then just the beauty of rock and vegetation worn and grown in strange forms.
The seemingly innocent girl gains access to another spiritual plane through forbidden means, although her actions may appear harmless and what she finds may seem quite alluring to many in this day and age, were the occult has captured peoples imagination.
Dazzling, psychedelic novel about surreal world placed in an Celtic sanctuary.
There are books which show you the supernatural with grotesque images/depictions and then there are ones which hint at them, tease it endlessly, before giving the readers a small glimpse to the myriad fantasy world of supernatural. Arthur Machen has succeeded quite succinctly in the second, which is quite remarkable for its era.My Rating - 3.5/5
I really enjoyed this and I’m honestly looking forward to reading the rest. This was dark and mysterious and everything I look for in a classic gothic inspired tale. The philosophical discussion in the prologue and epilogue and the main story itself had me hooked. I really really must own the full collection 🤩😍!
The story starts as a singular, philosophical study on the nature of good and evil and evolves into a chillingly delightful tale brimming with dark, paganistic rituals, weird occurrences and sorcery only to break off abruptly on the cusp of some kind of supreme revelation.The beginning of The White People offers to the reader an intriguing intake on the topic of saints and sinners.
I listened to the Librivox recording of this story.
the first part Ambrose & buddy are talking about sin.
I felt like that whole section was nothing but him repeating everything over & over and it was very heavy, not idea to listen to while you work!;) the 2nd part is the stories.
then the last part was Ambrose & buddy talking about the book and just the wrapping up of the story.
I felt like the 1st section of the story and the 2nd one was completely different books.
One of the most beautiful and terrifying stories in the English language, in my opinion. Hallucinatory and dreamlike, and shot through with both a yearning for and terror of darker, more superstitious ages. I can't think of anything to compare it to.
This was so well-written I was literally on the brink of tears at times, and it's also a pretty horrifying tale when it wants to be.
This book has been seen as a foundation piece for supernatural literature, which makes me a tad upset I didn't like it more. It lacked any real incline to its plot and when the big moment of what was suppose to be the climax came I felt like the firecracker fizzled and never went off. I did enjoy the folklore aspect to the piece and overall didn't mind spending the time to read it. Basically it's just one big shrug.
Machen's classic story is almost unique in the weird fiction canon, pre-empting modernist techniques and chronicling a hallucinatory travelogue through parts strange and fearful.The whole story is full of a dreamlike unease, and evokes in the reader an almost indescribable mixture of dread and wonder. It thoroughly deserves to be read by everyone, irrespective of their relationship to the horror genre.
Then I made faces like the faces on the rocks, and I twisted myself about like the twisted ones, and I lay down flat on the ground like the dead ones, and I went up to one that was grinning, and put my arms round him and hugged him.
But I wanted to get up to the very top of the big round mound, so I lay down flat on my face, and took hold of the grass with my hands and drew myself up, bit by bit, till I was at the top.
I am sure Machen would have read Dunsany, and I wonder if he intentionally or otherwise referenced it?Another element to the story I noticed upon re-reading, is the insistent and slightly muddled voice of the narrator.
Machen does a wonderful and convincing job, creating a believable voice for a young girl who is telling a decidedly unbelievable tale.
Machen is one of the few authors of supernatural horror who has the ability to finely craft stories which, whilst on the surface seem highly improbable, are written so skillfully they become haunting.
I see a lot of reading lists pop up while browsing the web, and since I'm always looking for a good book, I pay attention to them.
One was a list of stories to read if you liked Stranger Things, and since I did (and who didn't?), I thought I'd check some of them out.
The narrative evokes an ominous dread, especially as the young woman describes the uneasy reactions of other people to what she sees and tells.I liked this story, but not because it reminded me of Stranger Things; that link is tenuous, connected only by way of parallel universes.
The White People is one of those works which is in the DNA of many later books, particularly in the horror genre.
Once that is dispensed with, the work is a very early version of found-manuscript horror, although it would not have been clear to contemporary readers if it was horror or fantasy until the last few pages (even had they these genre terms with which to safely pigeonhole it).
I enjoyed it a great deal, but recommend it only for people who like the slow burn and verbosity of the early Mythos authors.This review originally appeared on book coasters.
Despues de una interesante conversación sobre el pecado, la cual nos hará pensar bastante, nos moveremos por una historia realmente extraña y filosofica. Una travesía surrealista sobre el bien, el mal y la brujería. No estoy muy seguro de en que generos catalogarla, pero si lo estoy en el hecho de que es una obra que gana con cada relectura.
This was an exceptionally strange tale, beginning with a discourse on the nature of evil between two gentlemen and continuing with the revelations within a green book in one man's possession which tells some unusual tales of strange occurrences and secret worlds...
Mientras lo leía no podía dejar de pensar que era como un Alicia en el País de las Maravillas de terror.Tiene historias cortas dentro de la historia corta que están bastante interesantes.
“Sorcery and Sanctity … these are the only realities.”I read The White People, by Arthur Machen in advance of Halloween, trying to get in the mood for the macabre.
The power of the story lies in tension between the rich, terrifying supernatural world hidden just beneath the surface of everyday life — revealed to the young girl by her nurse who is familiar with all the old legends — and the childish, wonder and naiveté of the diarist as she is drawn deeper and into the world of the White People.
This, "The Willows," "Count Magnus" - they all strike me as inferior to other works by their authors.*I'd say the biggest chill here comes from the "found footage" feel - the bulk of the story is a diary clearly never meant to be read by anyone but its author.
The fact that the author was a young girl, and she recounts increasingly disturbing** details of her nanny's tutelage, give this a feeling of building dread.But it failed to make a full emotional impact on me, and the framing tale is off-putting in its droning pace and pedantic tone.
Among Arthur Machen's few, yet indispensable and highly rereadable, acknowledged major works of dark

It's not often that I feel that I didn't quite "get" a story, but I don't seem to quite get this one. The ending, I think, is intended to be meaningful, but I don't see the meaning. If I had, I imagine I would've liked it more.Still, I enjoyed it. I think I would've enjoyed it a fair bit more, and would've rated it four stars, if there had simply been more paragraphs.I thought the beginning was straight fire. The girl's story never scared me, but Ambrose sure did.
As with most of Machens work I enjoyed it but I think it is my own preference to the more grotesque and weird that has made this story underwhelm me. I can appreciate what the story it's self is and it is a landmark in the terms of horror fiction but I would rather something like the great god pan to terrify me.4/10
Hmmmm. Well, I might need to give this one another try at another time. I didn't find it as frightening as The Great God Pan [shivers], rather I found it sad. A sad fairy tale walking you through the mind of an unwell child-like woman.
Läst en svensk översättning som jag hittade i en samling under namnet "Det vita folket och andra fantastiska berättelser". Berättelsen är spännande skriven och ovanlig. Större delen saknar styckeindelning och är drömlik och suggestiv, något svårläst men ganska bra.
Excelent Story 💕💕💕
