https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/161544.Lando
For one, they all concentrate on the least interesting pieces of the story.Not that the story is that great, sadly.
Lando isn't terribly interesting, really.
Which means I couldn't help feeling that we missed all the most interesting bits sticking with Lando rather than stepping back twenty years and following Falco from the beginning.Anyway, bad marketing, awful copywriting, and a story that's barely coherent made this a less-than-satisfying read.
Tell was a much better hero and his story was more coherent than this one.
Which is sad because Lando had a great premise (following in a father's footsteps, finding trouble along the way).
Five foot nine and hugely muscled Lando, another of the Sackett clan sets out from the Tennessee mountains to start a new life.
His mother dead his father missing Lando has his troubles.
In his father and mother's old cabin he lived on his own...
Now along with and enigmatic traveling peddler and worker "The Tinker" he's going west to make his fortune.The book has action and once it gets started it rolls along at a good clip with under-handed dealing, bandits, horse racing, prize fighting...and gun fighting.
Maybe not what would be called "great literature" but pure adventure and a good read.
Entertaing book but not quite up to par with the other books in the "Sackett" series. It's obvious that there was no birth control in the 1870's because if I can just find one more Sackett brother we'll be able to field a marching band.

I'm not really into westerns. This was the first one I had read. (I was bored, it was sitting there, so I read it.) It was about like I expected a western to be- stoic protagonist, grizzled heartless bad guys, knock-em sock-em fist fights, a few gun fights, a girl or two, horses... In the end it was entertaining and mostly forgettable.
Read most of Louis Lamour's books when I was in my late teens and early twenties. They are important to me as they were some of the first books that got me into the reading habit. For that I shall be forever grateful
Lando lives five years on own, till arrival of roaming gypsy Tinker, famed for steel knives, coincides with "one-eyed spavined mare" p 274, get of famed racer, in heat.
Finally, Lando learns how the three met in 1868, found 1816 from pirate Jean Lafitte, "not a million dollars - a million" gold Spanish coins, worth much more p 295, and Captain Elam Kurbishaw finds out.
Three Kurbishaw brothers try to stop their sister from marrying Falcon, before names connect.
(view spoiler)[Falcon escaped Mexican prison after eight years, rescued by Lando where they find gold in Florida.
Franklyn betrays them, kills Jonas, and gets Lando jailed in Mexico for "six years hard labor" p 348.
Lando is even better the second time!Having read all of the Sackett Series Books several years ago, I decided to read them again.
It is an awesome story of a family line who sets their roots in the new world and how they manage to live off the land and to survive during brutal times.
You will want to read and read again over and over this great series of books.
Louis L'Amour has written a tremendous number of books about the land, the people and the sheer determination to survive in a world that was uncivilized when they arrived.
The blurb on the back of this book is the most awful blurb I've ever read.
I spent half the story wondering if the publisher put a blurb for another book on the cover.
But then, halfway in, everything the blurb says starts to unfold but not in the context that the blurb suggests.
And I think I would've preferred the story that the blurb suggests.
This has been my least favorite story about the Sackett family; everything interesting happens before the start of this book and the attempt to work in the backstory is convoluted.
Really enjoyed Louie L'Amour's newest character, Orlando.
I was a little skeptical about how he would develop.
Thought he was a little one-dimensional at first.
But L'Amour developed him into a believable and likeable character.
There's a sympathy and nobility he creates within Orlando.
Taking him from the mountainous shack of Tennessee out into the wilds of Texas with only a Tinker for a friend and pregnant mare, L'Amour leads his character on the path to riches, and maybe a reunion with his long, lost father.
There's a strength in each of L'Amour's characters, and Orlando is no exception.
A little bit of a mystery in a Western.
Our hero does not know any of the back story that led to his father's disappearance and a trail of friends and enemies.
There is buried gold and warfare and prison, from which are hero emerges strong and powerful and able to beat the best boxer in the territory, who turns out to be a man he beat as a youth.
Just one of many improbable developments in this tale, that wraps up neatly with the return of the father, gold riches for all the good guys, and the bad guys shot down in the last paragraph.Just the sort of book to read on a cross-country flight when you don't feel like undertaking something weighty.
next time you take a roadtrip, do yourself and your fellow passengers a favor - buy as many of the sackett books as you can find at truck stops and read them aloud. maybe not super intellectually stimulating, but wonderful stories of frontier-style adventure.
Like other L'Amour books, this one is very fast-paced, for the most part, from beginning to end.
L'Amour does break the formula of the hero saving the girl, their getting married, big gun fight, happy ending in this one, but apart from that...nothing special.The title character, one Orlando (Lando) Sackett, has been left in the care of another family by his father, Falcon, for reasons unknown.
Revenge takes over his mind--and the conclusion leaves it somewhat vague as to whether or not he truly gets it.
The synopsis is only for the like the last third of the book.Orlando "Lando" Sackett has grown up on his own since he was twelve years old.
The man his father gave money to in order to see Lando educated stole the money for himself.
Lando makes his way until one day the Tinker, a pack peddler and tinker, take off for the West.
Lando does find his father.Now this might not be the best of all of Louis L'Amour's books it is however an engaging story and worth the time to read if you are reading the Sackett series in order.
For six long years Orlando Sackett survived the horrors of a brutal Mexican prison.
He survived by using his skills as a boxer and by making three vows.
The first was to exact revenge on the hired killers who framed him.
The second was to return to his father.
And the third was to find Gin Locklear.
But the world has changed a lot since Lando left it.
His father is missing.
And the killers want him dead.
Hardened physically and emotionally, Lando must begin an epic journey to resolve his past, even if it costs him his life.
Like the other Sacketts, this book combines beautiful, lovingly described landscapes with the grittiness of life on the trail and in the rugged west. Orlando himself is something of a different kind of Sackett: he carries on the traditional Sackett virtues, but largely comes to adulthood on his own. His father is not around and he has no brothers. There is a lot of action from gun battles to fisttocuffs to races. And the book ranges from the mountains of Tennessee to Texas and also to the Gulf in Mexico. It's great fun.
I’ve been away from Louis L’Amour for a while, and I’d forgotten about the smooth excellence of his prose. But his heroes are always the same guy: tough and hard and fast with a gun. And they always claim to be “no hand with the ladies,” but somehow the ladies always find them charming. I do, too.
Another one of the great Sackett stories. Orlando is a great man who only becomes greater with his six years in Mexican prison. This is currently my favorite Sackett tale. Lando is more than most readers will expect, even though he claims to have "nothing more than his two good hands and a racing mule." I recommend this book to everyone.
Another quality western story by this author. In this one he throws in a bit of history with a ship that had foundered on the southern TX shore with gold doubloons aboard. Love this series about the Sackett clan. Lando does not get help from his cousins in this one, but it's another clue as to their early years on the east coast and their individual travels west. Very entertaining.
A wonderful storyThis is the first of the Sackett books. I love the story and the action. I will need to research and find the first 11 books. I feel I need to start from the beginning.
True to other books in the Sackett series, Lando brings to life an aspect of American History. The values and principles of truth are well brought to life throughout the story. The lead character is worthy of emulation. Louis L'Amour is such a talented writer and a joy to read.
From Tennessee to Texas to Mexico, Orlando Sackett experiences all kinds of adventures--races a mule, fights in a boxing match, gets taken prisoner in Mexico, finds pirate's gold, and watches his father steal the woman he loves. Always something new on the next page.
A good read Like all his books it flows well with escapism and a hero. The description of areas are evocative of the country and always worth reading and not jumping to the next bit of excitement.
One of the odder ones. Makes me wonder if there's some hill country Tennessee accent he's writing that I don't know, which is why the dialogue is occasionally stilted and out-of-place. Different pacing on the story, too, letting six years pass in a paragraph in the last third of the book.
Fantastic book!I have read and reread every Louis L`Amour book since i was a kid 50 years ago. The Sackett family series are books to raise your sons with as are all the L`Amour books!
Fantastic book!I have read and reread every Louis L`Amour book since i was a kid 50 years ago. The Sackett family series are books to raise your sons with as are all the L`Amour books!
This was again a good read, though I didn't like the ending as well as some of his other works. It ended to soon, and should have continued with more of his life.
I read it years ago in french and I decided to read it again in the language of the writer.strong hero, beautiful story. Everything I love in a western.
Great tale!I always have a good time with a L'Amour book. I read this one as a teen. It stands up pretty well, and I enjoyed the historical bits much more this time.
Meh. Not L'Amours best work.
Just meh, least favorite of the series so far.
