https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/596358.Miss_MacIntosh_My_Darling
Will I read the second half of this million-word work?
Heavily laden with jewels as a Greek corpse, my mother, she who had retired from the brutal world, whose eyes were shielded against the vulgar sunlight, slept for tideless years which were her vast excitement, surrounding herself with a world of dreams, visions, phantoms, her bedroom filled with visitors as Grand Central Station, some from the shores of Hades, voices of the dead, faded movie stars of the silent flicker films, spirits like long-nosed bird dogs (and another huge list of imaginary people and critters thronging her mother’s Grand Central Stationlike bedroom).This is not writing, it’s vaporising by someone who really really wants to write an epic novel but doesn’t know how and hasn’t actually done anything except sit in a room wanting to write a big novel.
For I do not think it possible to argue that this overflowing text "works" as a novel usually does - it certainly also contains long sections which fail to "work" by any standard one would usually apply to prose - and yet, somehow, it is impossible to judge it anything other than an extraordinary success.
I will let someone much better than me explain it: http://youtu.be/A9tKncAdlHQWe see here the problems of a language not developed to deal with the quantum world...Light is not behaving like a particle or a wave, it is some third thing which is both and neither.
It has been several weeks past now that I completed my initial reading of Marguerite Young’s Miss MacIntosh, My Darling.
I’d really very much like to write something here that might convince you and many more besides to read her novel.
I’ve now read all her prose work which managed to find itself published, and decry the fact that our literary world has left so much in the archive still.
Many early reviews of Miss MacIntosh were as stultified as those of The Recognitions.
Please do read Ms Young’s novel.
This woman can write like nomans' business.Miss MacIntosh, My Darling group:::https://www.goodreads.com/group/show/...____________Who is Marguerite Young?

This book reminds me of this, an obsession with a lady, written by an obsessive lady, a testament to obsession, we shall see where this leads, hopefully with motivation and free time I will be able to update this further as I feel a sadness that such a valuable piece of writing has been so neglected, like a threatened species, I would like to offer my own little contribution to its continued existence, it doesnt deserve extinction.March 3/2013 - Update:I am now 250 pages in, I'm getting a far greater sense for where this book is going and what this book is trying to do.
Almost immediately upon beginning to read I recognized Marguerite Young’s genius and realized I would not be able to retain in my body her beautiful words while conducting what has become for me a typically recreational enjoyment.
It was simply amazing how she never once veered from the tone she established on the very first page, and how she kept it all together for the seventeen years it took to complete the novel to her satisfaction.
It also occurs to me how remarkable the many years of diligent and exhausting research she must have conducted to achieve this great, and believable, work.
~~& here is her charmingly unostentatious signature on the front flyleafwhich I thought might be a bit too unostentatious to be legit, until I did a search and found this, which confirmed the signature and also is a wonderful little document all on its own, the manuscript first page:http://37.media.tumblr.com/tumblr_m8f...
if you like long, repetitive, poetic sentences and a total lack of interest in plot then boy have i got a book for you. there's a 4oo page bit of just a guy fretting over his dead brother. the bus ride that starts on page 1 doesn't end until page 900 or so. theres also a great bit with a mute guy who keeps a singing frog in his mouth to talk with, and they have a very sad funeral for the frog when it dies.
This is not an easy read by any means, but well worth the considerable effort I put into it.
The prose is engulfing, endless, transcending, and illuminates with astounding accuracy even the most dimly lit corners of existence, reality, life and death.
Alas.“…a novel that in the profoundest sense does not exist.”(~Melvin Maddocks in Christian Science Monitor, 1965).From inside the beast itself:“The conditions of mortal life were such that, for others as for herself, the dream must suffice, for reality bears with it always an aspect of fateful disappointment, of falling short, just through its being unreal, through its omissions of other realizations which had also trembled on the threshold of the jewel-framed door or were that contingent world one might have experienced by taking the other train through the other landscape.”
I know that this novel took the author 18 years to write and that portions were published in magazines along the way.
I think it may be a novel best read in doses, allowing the reader to savor the writing and ponder the myriad of ideas touched upon throughout the tale.
The diluted plot is the reason I give it four instead of five stars........let's see how this turns out!Final Review:Okay.....1197 pages later.....Do you think that it is possible that your entire life has actually been someone else's opium induced hallucination?
If you have the patience, it is a wonderful read.What I enjoyed most about MMMD is the author’s painterly, dream-scape imagery.
If you think Young’s portrayals chimerical, bear in mind that, her characters were depictions of people she knew during her lifetime.
Whatever the interpretation or review, my recommendation is to read this novel slowly and resign yourself to the fact that, if you want to understand the full scope of Young’s work, it will take a longer time to read than other books of this length.
However, do not panic, nine months was idiosyncratic to my love for this masterpiece.
William Goyen (NYT Book Review) wrote "The book's mysterious readability is effected through enchantment and hypnosis." I saw that quote on the back of the book about 1/4 of the way through Miss MacIntosh, My Darling (MMMD) and immediately thought "YES!" That's the thing about this book -- reading to one marker begets reading to the next marker and so on until 200 pages are past and you don't know what happened to you.
I have read other reviewers who have written they they cut out hundreds of pages to make the book more readable.
Really, what's with the value/rating fetish, Goodreads (and everybody else)? I give infinite unstars to everything. No superlatives please. I'm sure nothing I can say is going to convince you to read fourteen hundred pages. If you like lists, commas, opium and a little sonic texture, you might get into this. There's a good deal of repetition going on throughout, but I think it plays the same role as in a poem, i.e. builds tone with emphatic gesture.
Beautiful and ridiculously enjoyable and dreamily digressive and pænunputdownable: actual review forthcoming...
Really a 3.7. I am not a fan of slapstick humor and much prefer M.J.'s wit which for me is a talent he holds high above most.
That is precisely what Miss MacIntosh, My Darling is about, things not always being what they seem and the uncertain, gray spaces in between extremes being the most fertile places to play--life and death, dark and light, male and female, imagination and reality, and the pregnant silence between two notes in a musical composition.
Because Miss MacIntosh felt like a work of great literary significance the whole time I was reading it--richly allusive to literary works which preceded it and almost prophetic of works published long afterward, both literary and popular.
In a certain way this book is a companion to Proust's recherche - but with a search for a lost reality instead of a lost past.
Reading an extended work like this becomes a state of mind, which is only possible because the narrative is not complex so there is little to remember.
Experiencing this is like a very long walk in the woods or mountains and heals the soul.Being susceptible for this is, I think, an essential requirement for being able to enjoy this book.
There are very few people to whom I would recommend reading this book.
This is a bizarre book, but I love it. I've marked a couple hundred pages "to skip" for anyone I lend it to, but what's a couple hundred pages in a book 1200 pages long? The effect is definitely cumulative and it takes a while to get a feel for how the book "wants to be read", but if you like imagery and playing with perspective, go for it. There's an interesting message about the essential innocence of humanity in here.
Williams come to mind (Gaddis, Goyen, Faulkner, Blake) - lyrical tome a workshop would trim several hundred pages off - they won't make books like this any more, alas
This is the most interesting, boring, tedious book I've ever read.
The author writes in extremely long run-on sentences, using comma after comma.
Where is the story?' Oh, that's right - it's a character study of Miss MacIntosh, nursemaid to a super-rich, opium addicted, delusional New England woman with a young child, who's telling the story.
I can't read more than ten pages with out my eye lids getting so, so heavy ...
I don't know, but the book is 1,200 pages of o small print, run-on sentences, and no dialogue.
Something's got to happen, right?
Just after I picked this wonderful novel up again (it is on my ongoing shelf), I read that a Miss MacIntosh reading group might be starting soon.
Unfortunately, this is a book I could not sit down and read from start to finish.
Not only is it very long, but Young's habits get to me after a while.
Her prose is beautiful, especially its rhythms.
But she employs the same tropes, especially oxymorons and other plays on contradiction, so much that I find it better to dip and slowly move forward than to read large quantities at once.It amazes me that this novel is not better known.
incredibly artistic, dense novel. around 1,200 pages of tiny type. worth it.
Absolutely fantastic, long but worth it ;)
The first page or so tracks the in depth observations of the narrator, Vera Cartwheel, as she looks around the bus and makes suppositions on the various people she sees.As the novel progresses we learn more about her raison d’etre, which is a metaphorical and spiritual journey to find the ersatz mother figure of her youth…the titular Miss MacIntosh, who raised her and guided her through her youth when her mouth, an opium addict, could not.
Does anyone actually sit down and read this sequentially? I couldn't. And yet I own it and it would be one of the last books Id ever part with. I can close my eyes, open to any page & find insight on some aspect of life. Or curious observations that never occured to me before. And this tome is huge. I think I'll go grab it now & browse.
I tried to read this book many times over the years.
I don't have the time or inclination.
I have always gotten a kick out of the fact that the 1988 movie, The Accidental Tourist, based on Anne Tyler's book, shows the highly misanthropic main character constantly reading Miss MacIntosh as he jets around the world to critique hotels.
It appears that he has made escaping into this book a life-long project.
Umm. I am thinking that the book and the movie did not have the same name.
That was a long time ago.
A Waste of CyberspaceTL;DR. I might have wasted my $7 on this so-called "novel".Instead of writing something more substantive, I'll refer you to an honest review that doesn't eulogise the sheer bulk of words as if it was some kind of godsend.
Did anyone actually complete this book? How is this so “acclaimed?” What a mess. What a snooze fest.
