https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1327679.Les_Contes_du_chat_perch_
Because I'm mature and it's best to act mature when reviewing literature written for children, I won't say anything about the second story here. I also won't admit to giggling I read this line nor make any comments about the the maturity of French children (nor wonder at what age it is appropriate here in America to decide to worth of a cock based on it's size alone). "Who does he think he is?" she said to her sister. "Just a little cock who doesn't matter to anyone!"And I also won't say anythin
"Just a little cock who doesn't matter to anyone!"And I also won't say anything about what kind of little girl talks about the advantages of a big cock versus a little one.
"You can say what you like, cock, but it's a great advantage to be big.""It may be useful at times," said the cock, "but you must admit there's nothing handsome about it..."Instead I'll share these two delightful pictures of foxes from the same story!
The author for these children stories about a farm where all the animals can talk, is mentioned in A Novel Bookstore as being an author of 'good' books.
Tres sympa de relire des contes. Un peu de fantastique et de magie ne fait jamais de mal. Retour en enfance assure !
Some of them are sad, but none of them manipulate the reader into mourning an animal as though it has the same value as a human being.Each chapter of this book can essentially stand on its own, and each one is a fable of sorts, kind of like a cross between Aesop and Winnie-the-Pooh.
I love that the book works on multiple levels and that it will reward children who choose to read it multiple times as they age through childhood.I am not generally an animal person, and I tend to hate talking animal books.
This book was a fun read-aloud. My children belly-laughed and I chuckled at quite a few scenes throughout. I loved this book because I felt it normalized some of my own parenting behaviors (e.g. Didn't finish working your sums? "Do you want to grow up and be ignorant and have your husbands laugh at you? You will not eat any supper if you have not finished your work properly!").
Lu enfant, j'en garde des souvenirs fabuleux!
A lire entre 7 et 77 ans.Délicieuse lecture quand on aime les enfants, les animaux, la campagne. Une façon de réviser les traditions et l'éducation à la française. Des souvenirs de l'ancien temps accompagné de vieilles chansons qui trainent dans la mémoire collective.Aussi un bel instrument de travail en classe (FLAM)
Two little sisters live with their parents on a magical farm, where the animals can talk and other things magical happen.Meh. This one hasn't aged well, I think.
Lu au collège, j’en garde un souvenir sympathique. Simple d’accès et bien écrit.
HiMarcel Aymé lived for a time in Dole (Jura, France) as I am visiting there soon and they have named their self guided city tour after one of his books I thought I would try and read some of his work. The Wonderful Farm is a collection of 7 stories aimed at kids round about 6 or 7 years old. They are beautiful stories and very pleasant to read, however maybe they belong in an other time. Alex
This is the most delightful book; it is mainly just short stories dealing with two young girls, their mean parents, and their animals on their farm in France. It's imaginative and playful and I recommend it. I don't know if the English translation is good, but I think it would be a great book to read to young kids.
http://accrocdeslivres.blogspot.fr/20...
In Croatian "Priče mačke na grani".
3 1\2 :)
It was okay.
Classique de la littérature jeunesse que j'ai lu quand j'avais une dizaine d'années. Sympas mais pas mon préféré.
Celle cité est ma préferé :-)
7/10
A charming collection of stories about two little French girls and the taking animals on their farm.
The farm is a wonderful farm. It’s a regular farm except that the animals can talk and mysterious things happen. Each chapter is another wonderful adventure, and it’s quite delightful.
Cute little book for kids. Very simple but fun stories.
