https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/183656.The_Two_Princesses_of_Bamarre
Follow Princess Addie as she is overcoming her fears in order to find a cure for her sister who had the mischance to fall into the claws of the Gray Death. This is a charming adventure brimming with princesses, dragons, elves, fairies, ogres, sorcerers and magic! Over and above that, it explores the themes of sisterly love and courage. Even a coward can be transformed into a knight. It can absolutely make a beautiful storytelling for children.
I love the part where she is about to lunge in the dragon cave and something holds her down and she struggles then when she stops hse realises that if she had lunged, the 7 leage boots would have smashed her into the cave wall.  I applied this to Heavenly Father trying to tell us what to do and we stuggle, and don't do it. Then when it's through, we realise what would have happened if we had done that thing. (or we do it and we feel foolish afterwords)  I love the tensity Addie's courage campared to Meryl's.
I LOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEE THAT BOOK!!!!!!
One sister is a courageous blonde ready to find the cure to Sir Grey Death and the other is a brunette who is a coward who has to find her strength.Meryl is the older sister.
With the cure prophesied, there is hope that sometime, someday soon, someone will find it.Addie is a coward.
Gail Carson Levine made me cry through out the years reading this because I always pictured myself as Addie (the younger sister) and my sister Michelle as Meryl (the older sister).
I love this book!!! Even though Ella Enchanted is Gail Carson Levine's most well-known book, I think that The Two Princesses of Bamarre is her best book. It's really exciting, but also well-written. If you love Ella Enchanted, this is the book for you.
It has romance, monsters, action, magic, and adventure; all things that people look for and enjoy in a good book.
But what really makes this story great is not any of those things.
What makes it great is how a young woman who is afraid of everything ventures out into a dangerous and terrifying world that would scare even the brave in order to save her sister even though there is a very high chance she might die in the attempt.
Because even those of us who are afraid of a great many things would go to frightening lengths and do the impossible to save someone we love.
As Boots of the Coup says, "Tell your teacher I said princess are evil/How they got all their money was to kill people." But I can stomach the feisty, smart, brave princesses in the books of Gail Carson Levine.
She spins the whole traditional princess genre and makes these gals rock!Unlike other books by Gail Carson Levine, this one is not based on a traditional fairy tale (or at least not one that I know), but it's better than any of those "someday my prince will come" bullshit stories that I grew up with.Give this one to the girl in your life who's all into those wimpy Disney princesses.
This book is one of the first fantasy novels I ever read.
It's one I loved from beginning to end, and it's one that I never tire of reading over and over again.
It's the only book I've read more times than I can count on my one hand and several more on the other.
This is an awesome read with great morals about finding courage in a world that is against you doing so.
It's got poetry, dragons, action, suspense, all the good stuff...and it's in one read.
So enjoy if anyone thinks to read it!
I actually liked this one better than Ella Enchanted or Fairest. Now one of my fave fantasy stories!
Review to come!
An adventurous, fun story, The Two Princesses of Bamarre was... making me smile knowingly at some parts, then sitting in surprise at another. Sweet fairytale of a love that makes cowards brave. Complete with wily monsters, fearsome dragons, and courageous legends.It was a quick but good read for me, and I know my younger sisters also loved it.
Loved the sibling dynamic of this book. I read this years ago, but that still sticks out to me.
I didn't think that Gail Carson Levine could write anything more spectacular than Ella Enchanted.
I'm not going to say that The Two Princesses of Bamarre was better than Ella Enchanted, but it definitely was as good as it.
I loved reading about them, and how Addie was willing to risk her life to save her sister from the Gray Death.
Gail Carson Levine created a romance that wasn't cheesy or over the top romantic, but was very sweet and great to read.It was refreshing to read a fairy tale that hadn't been written before, because I had no idea how it would end!
I needed the relationships to be fleshed out more, both the romance and the sibling relationship.But I did like the bare bones of the story a lot.Re-read February 2016Hahaha, well, this time I KNOW I read it before, but I couldn't remember much at all about it until I started reading.
Then I remembered more.I do think it's not quite subtle enough for my adult tastes.
I want stories about the characters like Addie, but this was too on the nose.
And, besides, it was still about (view spoiler)[a princess going off to have brave adventures, not about her finding her own kinds of adventures.
(hide spoiler)]
This book should be read by everyone, especially the young ones.
It’s one great adventure and it teaches valuable life lessons!
Princesses Meryl and Addie each know their strengths.
I am pleased to report that at the end of the book, they find out that they are capable of doing more!
Personally, my favorite is Addie’s transformation from a scaredy cat to a warrior princess..
and it’s all because of her love for her sister!
That makes it more amazing!I like just how exciting the adventures are in this book.
It’s just great!
The ending was also surprising.
Read this!
Plot Summary:The plot revolves around two sisters, Meryl and Addie.
In the end, she does find the cure to the Grey Death.
She's too late to save her sister; however, and Meryl encounters the transformation into a fairy, a very sacred being.
Addie kind of brings the kingdom out of the terror from dark creatures and the Grey Death, a curse brought upon by a dragon of late, becomes diminished.My Opinion:I rated this book a two.
There's a nice unpredictable twist at the end--I very much expected Meryl to be saved from the Grey Death and was surprised with the ingenuity of the final result.
It's written in the first person, which was a change, as few of the books I read are, and the protagonist of the story is Princess Addie, a sweet but cowardly girl who couldn't be more different than her sister, Meryl.
Princess Meryl is courageous and longs for adventures where she can kill dragons, gryphons, and ogres.
Their magic usually consists of manipulating clouds into different shapes for different purposes, and perhaps the most amazing thing of all is that they can fly.On Addie's adventure, she comes up against ogres, gryphons, and a dragon, all while trying to find a cure for her sister, who doesn't have much time left.
At first, I thought that since this book was going to be too princess-y, and medieval time-ish, I asked myself, "Why bother?"  My conscious had told me, "Suck it up and read it fool.
You always like princesses, now." And I did.
I don't remember much, but I do remember about the princess thinking she was frail, weak, not strong at all like the older one, going on a bunch of journeys.
It was a magnificent story, one that I will truly never forget.
I suggest this book for everyone, from the elderly, to eight year olds.
In one of my very early post, I listed some of my favorite books.
I mean, monsters, diseases, poems, heroes, dangers, desperation, romance—those few words definitely mean it has to be a good book.Gail Carson Levine is just an amazing author.
One is “bold and brave,” while the other is “fearful and shy.” 5 stars to the cover designer and artist.Even though I haven’t read all of Gail Carson Levine’s books, I know that she is a super good author.
I would recommend her as an author.
And, I would definitely recommend this book.
Step follows step,Hope follows Courage,Set your face towards danger,Set your heart on victory.This was one of my favorite books growing up - I love the focus on the strength of family bonds and the idea that you can be afraid, yet still be brave and strong.
Twelve-year-old Addie admires her older sister Meryl, who aspires to rid the kingdom of Bamarre of gryphons, specters, and ogres.
Addie, on the other hand, is fearful even of spiders and depends on Meryl for courage and protection.
Waving her sword Bloodbiter, the older girl declaims in the garden from the heroic epic of Drualt to a thrilled audience of Addie, their governess, and the young sorcerer Rhys.
But when Meryl falls ill with the dreaded Gray Death, Addie must gather her courage and set off alone on a quest to find the cure and save her beloved sister.
Why, oh why, do heroes with seven league boots never know trigonometry? It would save so much time when you only need to go five leagues...Still, a very fun story. I forgive her for writing Fairest. In the afterword, Levine mentions that this story was originally envisioned as a re-telling of the Twelve Dancing Princesses tale. It's hard to imagine something more different than that story!
dragons, ogers ,fairies this book is evrything!
Read for the 2016 Book Battle, but didn't work for me. Partly because she's *twelve*, and his efforts at hand-waving the fact away don't work against the fact that he's an adult and she isn't.
I have read this book so many times! I love it!

I love this book!
Addie was a great character and her development was amazing.
I also love her relationship with Rhys!
I felt like some things were a little drawn out in this book, but once Addie got up her courage a little then things moved pretty swiftly.
For the record, I like the dragon, even if she did kill people.
No no no no no no no no no!" at Addie, like with the specter that looked like Rhys.
BUT those are some great moments in a book and I kind of like those moments.
Let me just say, I was so wrong about Gail Carson Levine!Addie was such a good character.
This made for a nice “Stay true to yourself” message without being overly preachy.The quality of world building in this story surprised me, in a good way.
This concept was creepy, and the puzzle that presented in having to figure out who was real and who was a specter made for some fun scenes.Often dragons are written pretty similar to human characters with very human-like personalities.
I wasn't expecting to like this story as much as I did, but it was a fun, nice read and I was pleasantly surprised.
She even gets up a bit of romance in the end.Somehow, though, this book was missing something for me.
Or maybe it was that, other than her proposed fears (which she quickly overcame), Addie just had no flaws.
She was very much a fairy-tale character, as were most of the characters in the book -- all good or all bad.
That doesn't make this a bad book.
(view spoiler)[Both she and her sister act young .
that is, until the end when suddenly they are both romantically involved and Addie is getting married!
I could really connect with the story because I also have a sister who I would do anything for and even though we are different, we get along and really help each other out.
As you may have guessed the story tells about two sisters whose father rules over the kingdom of Bamarre which for some time has been plagued with the gray death.
However, it is Meryl that falls ill with the gray death and it is up to her meek sister Addie to save her.
This book is a great read for middle graders and has a lot of valuable lessons such as bravery, helping your family and perseverance.
